Roche Annual Report 2008
We Innovate Healthcare.
Because every life counts.Key figures
Roche Group Index 2006 = 100
Sales mCHF Equity ratio %
2008 45,617 70.7
2007 46,133 68.2
2006 42,041 62.9
Research and development mCHF Total employee remuneration mCHF
2008 8,845 11,129
2007 8,385 10,767
2006 7,365 10,116
Operating profit mCHF Total dividend mCHF
2008 13,924 4,3132
2007 14,468 3,968
2006 11,730 2,933
Income taxes mCHF Number of employees
2008 3,317 80,080
2007 3,867 78,604
2006 3,436 74,372
Net income mCHF Patients on clinical trials 3
2008 10,844 235,420
2007 11,437 201,752
2006 9,171 166,070
Core Earnings per Share CHF Eco-Efficiency Rate 4
2008 11.04 77.95
2007 11.85 67.19
2006 9.86 49.97
Index1 90 100 110 120 130 140 150 90 100 110 120 130 140 150
Price development of non-voting equity security (Genussschein) | in CHF
2006 2007 2008
300
250
200
150
100
Roche non-voting equity security Swiss Market Index (rebased)
1 Key figures indexed to 2006 = 100. Figures for 2006 as in Annual Report 2007.
2 Proposed by the Board of Directors. For a full index of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
3 Development phase I to IV. indicators used in the report see:
4 For calculation of the Eco-Efficiency Rate see: www.roche.com/reporting_and_indices
www.roche.com/environment
www.global-reports.com2008 in brief
Group
• Roche reports strong results in a challenging market environment: Group sales up significantly, increasing
by 10% in local currencies excluding Tamiflu pandemic sales.
• Strong organic growth of key products more than outweighs lower Tamiflu pandemic sales. Including
Tamiflu pandemic sales, Group sales in local currencies rise 6%.
• Operating profit exceeds last year’s record by 4% in local currencies, reaching 13.9billion Swiss francs
despite increased level of R&D investment.
• Net income down by 5% in Swiss francs to 10.8billion Swiss francs, primarily due to the strong Swiss
franc, but also to lower net financial income.
• Core Earnings per Share at constant exchange rates 2% above previous year’s record level.
Pharmaceuticals
• Pharmaceuticals sales advance 10%1— twice the global market growth rate. This is the sixth double-digit
increase in as many years.
• Oncology product sales grow by 15% to 19.7 billion Swiss francs. For the first time, three cancer products
achieve sales of over 5 billion Swiss francs.
• Operating profit margin increases by 0.7 percentage points to 36.2% despite significantly lower Tamiflu
pandemic sales and increased investments in the development pipeline.
• Avastin receives accelerated approval for breast cancer in US; applications for approval in brain cancer
filed in US and EU.
• Actemra/RoActemra approved for rheumatoid arthritis in Japan, EU and Switzerland; additional data will
besubmitted to U.S. FDA in 2009.
• Twelve major phase III programmes initiated.
• Acquisitions of Piramed, Mirus and ARIUS significantly strengthen R&D pipeline with new compounds and
technology platforms.
Diagnostics
• Divisional sales show double-digit growth, rising 10%.
• Operating profit margin declines 5.3percentage points to 12.3%, mostly due to acquisition impacts and
strong competition in the US diabetes care market.
• Integration of Tissue Diagnostics (Ventana) completed; the new business’s performance exceeds
expectations.
Outlook
• Above-market sales growth in both divisions.
• Mid-single-digit sales growth — for both Divisions and Group.
• Core Earnings per Share target to remain at the high level of 2008 in spite of increased investments
inresearch and development and expected lower net financial result.2
Barring unforeseen events.
Unless otherwise stated, all growth rates are in local currencies.
1 Excluding Tamiflu pandemic sales.
2 Core Earnings per Share target is based on constant exchange rates.www.global-reports.comYour life is at stake.
That’s why we work day after day
on better treatments and tests.
We Innovate Healthcare. This expresses our purpose as a company and everything we aim to achieve.
Our pharmaceuticals pipeline is one key indicator of our innovative strength: in 2008 we filed 11 major new
marketing applications and received 13 major regulatory approvals. Innovation also has top priority in our
Diagnostics Division: in 2008 it launched 29 new tests and instruments. From early detection and prevention of
diseases to diagnosis, treatment and treatment monitoring, Roche delivers a wide range of healthcare solutions.www.global-reports.comFor researchers another step forward.
For patients a huge relief.
Imagine needing an injection only once a week instead of twice a day to control your blood sugar and
losing weight at the same time. That could be an appealing prospect for people with type 2 diabetes.
And hopefully it will soon be a reality. We Innovate Healthcare: taspoglutide is an investigational new
diabetes medicine currently in phase III clinical trials. Better quality of life is within reach for people with
type 2 diabetes.We take a close look.
So treatment lasts
no longer than necessary.
www.global-reports.comThanks to our combined expertise in pharmaceuticals and diagnostics, some patients with hepatitis C can
be spared extended therapy. We Innovate Healthcare: a four-month course of treatment with our innovative
medicines Pegasys and Copegus is all some patients need, if they have low levels of the virus in their blood.
During and after treatment their viral levels are monitored using Roche’s highly sensitive tests for hepatitis C.
If the virus is still gone six months after treatment, a patient is considered cured.Innovation isn’t about molecules.
It’s about people.
www.global-reports.comWe try to look at the whole person. Because many interconnected factors can determine whether
someone falls ill or stays healthy. We have explored some of the risk factors for metabolic diseases and
learned how to influence them early on. This could make serious cardiovascular diseases preventable.
We Innovate Healthcare: dalcetrapib is a new molecule that increases ‘good cholesterol’ and thus may
protect the heart. It is the great hope for many patients. And a justified hope, as the compound is already
in phase III clinical trials.www.global-reports.comStandard therapies don’t work for everyone.
For this as well, we offer solutions.
Monoclonal antibodies offer new ways of treating serious diseases. Well established in cancer therapy,
they are also proving effective in rheumatoid arthritis. We Innovate Healthcare: MabThera/Rituxan and
Actemra/RoActemra — two distinct monoclonal antibodies that target different parts of the inflammation
process — can stop the disease from progressing and offer patients a better chance to achieve remission
from their disease. These novel medicines give physicians new options for patients who do not respond
to standard treatments. And the chance to improve their quality of life.www.global-reports.comThe future is still written in the stars.
Clues to disease are coded in our genes.
Successful innovators need to follow many leads. In our industry, some of the most promising leads come
from analysing the genetic profiles of diseases and disease-causing pathogens. These are focus areas for
our researchers. We Innovate Healthcare: with the help of Roche NimbleGen microarrays — miniaturised
genetic research labs on a chip — Roche is developing novel, rapid methods to deepen our understanding
of diseases and enable the development of new treatments.www.global-reports.comWe can’t put an end to cancer.
But sometimes we can prevent it.
One of the most important medical discoveries of recent times is that infection with certain types of
human papilloma virus can lead to cervical cancer in women. By giving doctors a practical way to apply
this knowledge, Roche is helping them to help their patients. We Innovate Healthcare: tests from Roche
help physicians diagnose women infected with certain strains of the virus that have the highest risk of
progressing to cervical cancer. Early diagnosis and treatment can save lives and spare many women
tremendous suffering.www.global-reports.comWe innovate for a good reason.
You.
Reliable, accurate and safe — the demands on preventive screening tests are high. We Innovate
Healthcare: to reduce the risk of viral infection from contaminated blood transfusions, Roche has
developed a test that simultaneously checks donated blood for HIV and hepatitis C and B viruses.
The test is used in many countries worldwide to improve the safety of blood supplies.When you’re sick, you have questions.
We have new answers.
www.global-reports.comThe integration of Ventana gives Roche access to the latest, most advanced know-how in tissue-based
diagnostics. This enables us to help physicians give patients new and precise answers to questions of
vital importance. We Innovate Healthcare: tissue-based diagnostics aids in tumour characterisation and
in monitoring changes in malignancies. This gives cancer patients continued hope for more targeted
treatments.It takes a decade
to turn an idea into a medicine.
So it’s good we don’t give up easily.
www.global-reports.comWe Innovate Healthcare: for Roche this means exploring uncharted territory every day. And while our
objectives are clear, the outcome never is. Nobody can predict at the outset whether a particular compound
will actually benefit patients and be safe enough for use. So sustaining a dynamic innovation strategy
like ours isn’t just about vision. It’s also about having the financial strength to make risky long-term
investments. It takes drive and staying power to keep venturing into the unknown to help the patients who
are counting on us.Table of Contents
Key figures
2008 in brief 1
Letter to Shareholders 25
Roche Group 28
Group results 29
Outlook 29
Group strategy 30
Pharmaceuticals 34
Pharmaceuticals Division in brief 35
Results 36
Therapeutic areas 36
Research and development 47
Diagnostics 52
Diagnostics Division in brief 53
Results 54
Business areas 55
Corporate Governance
Remuneration Report 64
Corporate Governance 65
Remuneration Report 75
Corporate Responsibility 86
In brief 87
Responsible practices 88
Patients 95
People 100
Society 106
Safety, security, health
and environmental protection 108
Independent Assurance Report 115
GRI statement 116
Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics pipelines
inside back cover
www.global-reports.com25
Letter to Shareholders
Franz B. Humer Severin Schwan
Dear Shareholders
The past year was dominated by the global financial and economic crisis. Nevertheless, your com-
pany continued to perform strongly, building on the achievements of previous years. Once again,
the Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions’ sales grew well ahead of their respective markets.
Group sales rose 10% in local currencies, excluding pandemic Tamiflu sales, which, as expected,
declined sharply. Including pandemic Tamiflu, sales increased 6% to 45.6 billion Swiss francs.
The Group’s operating profit increased to almost 14 billion Swiss francs, even though we increased
our research and development spending on promising projects in our strong development pipeline.
Net income, at 10.8 billion Swiss francs, was down only slightly from the previous year’s record
high, despite the marked appreciation of the Swiss franc against other major currencies and lower
financial income. Core Earnings per Share (at constant exchange rates) were 2% higher than
the year before. In view of these latest strong results, the Board of Directors will propose that the
dividend for 2008 be increased by 9% to 5.00 Swiss francs per share and non-voting equity
security (up from 4.60 Swiss francs for 2007). Subject to your approval at the next Annual General
Meeting of Shareholders, this will be Roche’s 22nd consecutive annual dividend increase.
In today’s turbulent economic climate, it is more vital than ever that we stay focused on developing
products that significantly improve the treatment options available to patients. In recent years
this strategy has yielded some major advances, notably in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer.
We are particularly excited about the many large-scale clinical trials the Group is conducting
with Avastin, the first targeted cancer medicine that halts the development of new blood vessels26
Roche Business Report 2008 Letter to Shareholders
to tumours. While these trials require substantial investments of time and money, they hold out
the promise of a longer, better life for countless patients suffering from a wide variety of cancers.
Ventana, the US-based leader in tissue diagnostics which we acquired for 3.8 billion Swiss francs
in February 2008, continues to perform even more strongly than expected. Having access to
tissue-based diagnostic tests and technologies will help us in our efforts to develop further per-
sonalised treatments, particularly for cancer.
Roche has also made considerable progress in developing biological medicines for the treatment
of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), an autoimmune disease that affects over 21 million people worldwide.
Our novel medicine Actemra/RoActemra has been approved for the treatment of RA in Japan and
the European Union. MabThera/Rituxan, our leading cancer medicine, continues to show benefit
in RA patients as well. Data from a phase III clinical trial, for example, show that MabThera/Rituxan
can prevent structural damage to joints in patients with early RA.
All told, twelve projects entered the final stage of clinical development at Roche in 2008, including
three promising new molecules for the treatment of breast cancer (pertuzumab), type 2 diabetes
(taspoglutide) and cardiovascular risk reduction (dalcetrapib).
On 21 July last year Roche announced its intention to purchase all outstanding shares of Genen-
tech, a company in which we have held a majority stake for nearly 20 years. We remain committed
to completing this transaction.
We believe that bringing Genentech entirely within the Roche Group will significantly enhance the
Group’s ability to remain innovative over the long term. We will take the necessary care to preserve
Genentech’s unique innovation culture. The Group will continue to encourage and promote a diver-
sity of research approaches, because this helps create an ideal climate for medical progress. We
will ensure that the existing research networks, technologies and expertise in our pharmaceuticals
and diagnostics businesses can be shared across the Group. At the same time, we will leverage
the scale of our combined operations in the US and improve operational efficiency.
Roche is taking this step from a position of strength and in the conviction that the proposed
transaction is in the best interests of both companies’ employees, patients and you, our share-
holders. Roche’s Board of Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee are confident that
this transaction will bring us significantly closer to our goal of being the world’s leading health-
care company.
We remain committed to operating our businesses in a responsible, sustainable manner that
respects the needs of all our stakeholders. Our products are our greatest contribution to society;
they provide significant benefits to patients, tangibly improving people’s health and increasing their
quality and length of life. We recognise our responsibility to help expand global access to our
products. We do this primarily through partnerships and in collaboration with various stakeholders.
www.global-reports.com27
Last year we achieved all of our environmental goals for improving energy efficiency and reducing
emissions of greenhouse gases. We firmly believe that sustainable policies and business practices
create long-term corporate value and support innovation. In recognition of its efforts, Roche was
selected for inclusion in the Dow Jones World Sustainability Index for the fifth consecutive year.
Finally, we would like to take this additional opportunity to thank the 80,000 Roche employees
worldwide for their tremendous dedication and professionalism. Without their efforts, Roche
would not be one of the world’s most successful companies. Recruiting, retaining and developing
talented people remain among our most important tasks.
Barring unforeseen events, we expect the Group to continue to perform strongly in 2009. In both
the Pharmaceuticals and the Diagnostics Division we expect full-year sales to grow ahead of the
market, with increases in the mid-single-digit range in local currencies. We will continue to invest
in the large-scale confirmatory clinical trials that are vital to Roche’s long-term success. Despite
the higher research and development costs involved and an expected decrease in net financial
income, we are aiming for Core Earnings per Share (Core EPS) at constant exchange rates
to remain at the same high level as in 2008. We expect that the Genentech transaction will have
a positive impact on Core EPSwithin the first year after closing.
Franz B. Humer Severin Schwan
Chairman of the Board Chief Executive OfficerRoche Group |
In 2008 the Roche
Group continued the strong underlying
operating performance of recent years.
Roche also expects sales in both the Phar-
maceuticals and the Diagnostics Division
to grow ahead of the market in 2009.
Roche has made personalised healthcare
a cornerstone of its innovation strategy.
We see it as a key enabler, helping us
increase our success rate in drug develop-
ment and bring clinically differentiated
medicines to patients.
www.global-reports.com29
Group results The financial crisis had only a minimal adverse effect
on the net financial income due to the conservative
In 2008 the Group continued its strong sales per- investment approach with limited exposure to equity
formance. Total sales grew by 6% in local currencies securities. In 2008, net financial income reached
(–1% in Swiss francs; 10% in US dollars) to 45.6bil- 0.2billion Swissfrancs. The reduction of 0.6 billion
lion Swiss francs, with the Pharmaceuticals Division Swiss francs compared with 2007 is primarily due
representing 79% of Group sales and the Diagnostics tolower interest income resulting from lower liquid
Division contributing 21%. The sales increase in the funds and reductions in interest rates.
underlying business more than compensated for the
anticipated decline in Tamiflu pandemic sales of Due to the strong Swiss franc and the lower net
1.6billion Swiss francs. Local currency sales growth financial income, group net income decreased by
excluding Tamiflu pandemic sales was 10%. Both the 5%to 10.8billion Swiss francs. Core EPS increased
Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Division grew well by 2% in local currencies to 11.04 Swiss francs.
ahead of their respective markets.
The Group continues to have a strong balance sheet,
Demand for the Group’s oncology drugs Avastin, also when compared internationally with equity
MabThera/Rituxan, Herceptin, Tarceva and Xeloda (including non-controlling interests) representing
continued to be strong. Additional growth drivers in 71% of total assets and 84% of total assets financed
the Pharmaceuticals Division were Bonviva/Boniva long-term.
inmetabolism/bone and CellCept in transplantation.
In the Diagnostics Division the main growth areas
were Professional Diagnostics and Applied Science, Outlook
with both business areas growing well ahead of
theirrespective markets. Following the acquisition of Barring unforeseen events, the Roche Group expects
Ventana at the beginning of February 2008, sales to continue to perform strongly in 2009. Full-year
inthe Tissue Diagnostics business grew significantly sales in both the Pharmaceuticals and the Diagnostics
faster than the market, contributing 4 percentage Division are expected to grow ahead of the market,
points to sales growth of the Diagnostics Division. with increases in the mid-single-digit range in local
currencies. Roche will continue to invest in the large-
The Group’s operating profit increased by 4% in local scale confirmatory clinical trials that are vital to the
currencies to 13.9billion Swiss francs. The operating Group’s long-term success. Despite the higher
profit margin declined slightly by 0.9 percentage research and development costs involved and the
points to 30.5% due to a margin reduction in the expected lower net financial result, the Group is
Diagnostics Division of 5.3 percentage points. The aiming for Core Earnings per Share (Core EPS) at
main reason being the impact of recent acquisitions, constant exchange rates to remain at the same high
strong competition in the US diabetes care market level as in 2008. Following the proposed purchase of
and portfolio mix effects. The Pharmaceuticals margin the outstanding Genentech shares, Roche expects
improved by 0.7 percentage points to 36.2% despite that the transaction will have a positive impact on
significantly lower Tamiflu pandemic sales and Core EPS within the first year after closing. Roche
increased investments in the strong development willupdate its targets once the transaction has
pipeline. beenclosed.
Operating free cash flow increased by 16% to
12.4billion Swiss francs despite significant currency
translation effects.30
Roche Business Report 2008 Roche Group
Personalised Healthcare — a key element of our Group’s strategy
Roche was one of the first companies to recognise the potential of personalised healthcare
(PHC). Today PHC is central to our Group’s strategy. We see it as a key enabler helping us
increase our success rate in drug development and bring more clinically differentiated medi-
cines to patients. In a recent roundtable, Severin Schwan (CEO Roche Group), William M. Burns
(CEO Pharmaceuticals Division) and Jürgen Schwiezer (CEO Diagnostics Division) talked about
Roche’s PHC strategy and its implementation, how PHC will create value for our healthcare
stakeholders and how it will create value for Roche.
Roche is actively pursuing personalised health-
care, and has made it one of the cornerstones of
its strategy of innovation. Why? What is the prom-
ise of personalised healthcare?
S. Schwan: First, it’s not by chance that Roche has
taken a leading role in personalised healthcare. Our
Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions both began
investing very early in molecular biology, and the
expertise this has given us puts us in a strong position
today to move personalised healthcare forward.
W.M. Burns:Science’s understanding of disease at the
William M. Burns, CEO Pharmaceuticals Division molecular level is growing almost exponentially, open-
Severin Schwan, CEO Roche Group ing up real opportunities to treat illnesses more effec-
Jürgen Schwiezer, CEO Diagnostics Division tively. Right now, these opportunities may lie largely in
learning to adjust the use of today’s medicines to better
fit the needs of particular patients — possibly with the
help of new diagnostics — but ultimately the aim is to
design the treatments of tomorrow. So the promise of
personalised healthcare is very much rooted in science.
If we can intelligently bring together true innovation in
medicine and better tracking of disease, we’ll be able to
do a better job of tailoring treatment options to different
patient populations and identifying which patients are
most likely to respond to a particular option. This is
important at a time when the clinical hurdles to bring-
ing new medicines to market are getting higher.
J. Schwiezer: Too often medicines either don’t work or
produce unacceptable side effects. Depending on the
disease and the drug, response rates can be as low as
www.global-reports.com31
20%. So for patients, the promise of PHC is higher 72-week course of therapy with Pegasys was just
response rates and fewer patients needlessly exposed recently approved for genotype 1 non-responders. So
to the risk of side effects, while for governments and we really have personalised the options available to
other healthcare payers, it’s the promise of being able some patients through a combination of innovative
to use resources more effectively — paying for interven- medicine, genotyping, and viral load monitoring.
tions that provide benefit, not for interventions that However, virology has proven to be one of the more
don’t. ‘predictive’ disease areas. In others, like oncology, we
Diagnostics have a pivotal role to play here, though this have a wealth of knowledge, but finding clinically rele-
isn’t anything new, really. For decades doctors have vant biomarkers to track is not as easy. Our targeted
used blood sugar tests to determine the insulin needs of breast cancer medication Herceptin and the HER2 com-
their patients with insulin-dependent diabetes. Viral panion tests to identify patients likely to benefit from
load monitoring and viral genotype testing, particularly Herceptin are still more the exception than the rule.
for HIV and for hepatitis C, are another, more recent We’re still at a very early stage of discovery, but science
example of diagnostics guiding therapy. These tests is definitely pointing in the direction of PHC. We need to
measure the amount of virus in a patients’ blood and harness the science and make it work for patients. If we
can detect viral resistance to particular medicines. This don’t, we’ll be missing out on an opportunity to capi-
information helps doctors decide how long and how talise on one of our greatest assets — our special com-
aggressively to treat a patient’s infection, what drug bination of strengths in pharmaceuticals and diagnos-
combination to use, and when a change of drug or tics.
dosage is needed.
S. Schwan: The expertise we’ve built up over the years
S. Schwan: I fully agree with Jürgen that, in a sense, in pharmaceuticals and diagnostics gives us a sustain-
personalised healthcare is nothing new. Doctors have able competitive advantage. It’s not something other
always tried to fit the therapy to the patient if possible. companies can duplicate easily or quickly. The depth
But what’s happened more recently is that we’ve begun and breadth of our pharma and diagnostics capabilities
to go a level deeper, if you will. We’re now exploring the make us ideally equipped to be at the forefront of PHC.
biology of disease and treatment at the molecular level. The question is not whether we can lead, the real ques-
In drug research, we’re using powerful new technolo- tion for us is: Do we want to lead? And the answer is
gies to select molecules in the body that could make yes.
good drug targets. And we can design clinical trials in a
more differentiated manner. The progress in science is W.M. Burns: Given the complexities that we know we
opening up opportunities to tailor treatments to specific are having to address within one company, it’s hard to
patient populations better than ever before. imagine a pharma company dealing with a separate
diagnostics company and finding a way to just ‘plug and
W.M. Burns: Hepatitis C, which Jürgen touched on play’. If anything, the complexities are likely to be mag-
briefly, is a good, real-life example of how we’ve made nified. Our shared libraries of clinical samples, our abil-
medicine more personalised. Hepatitis C was discov- ity to design a pharma study that could also validate a
ered only about 18 years ago. Now, with the help of diagnostic marker — if we join things up correctly, there
genotyping, we’re able to tell patients within 12 weeks are any number of opportunities for us to create a sus-
whether they’ll respond to treatment with Pegasys. In tainable competitive advantage for ourselves.
patients with HCV genotypes 2 to 4 we know a short
course of therapy is likely to be successful. And a32
Roche Business Report 2008 Roche Group
How can personalised healthcare create value for What are the hurdles and roadblocks we have to
Roche? overcome to make PHC happen?
W.M. Burns: From a Pharma perspective, our goal is S. Schwan: The biggest challenge I think is the com-
toachieve the kind of clinical differentiation that can plexity of the science. It’s not easy to develop a truly dif-
make a difference in the practice of medicine — and to ferentiated medicine or to find the biomarkers to guide
be able to make a health economic case for our prod- its use. But I think we now have the building blocks in
ucts. Being able to distinguish subsets of patients likely place to make PHC happen. I see two important areas
to respond to a medicine, or subsets who shouldn’t where we’ve made progress. One, as Jürgen mentioned,
even try it, is one way to enhance our chances of is in extending our portfolio of diagnostics technolo-
achieving clinical differentiation. Obviously, the ideal is gies, in part by acquiring companies like NimbleGen,
a pharmaceutical paired with a companion diagnostic, 454 Life Sciences and, more recently, Ventana. And I
but we need to be realistic in our expectations. We’ve think the second element that demonstrates our com-
had successes in HIV and hepatitis, but today’s science mitment to PHC is the organisational alignment we’ve
isn’t going to translate overnight into more drug–diag- carried out over the last two years, in both divisions, to
nostic combinations. Pursuing such projects, even when support smooth, integrated cooperation between Phar-
not immediately or entirely successful, can unlock pro- maceuticals and Diagnostics. Again, the building blocks
found value for the organisation, however, so we need are in place; now it’s time to make PHC happen — in the
to continue focusing on them. interest of the patient.
J. Schwiezer: Roche Diagnostics has two roles. One is
to create novel instruments and assays for the ‘in vitro’
diagnostics market. We’re the world leader at this. And
our other very important job is to support the Pharma-
ceuticals Division in achieving their goals, by providing
some of the tools they need in the drug discovery and
development process. At Roche Diagnostics we’ve
taken steps to fill both roles better, including the acqui-
sition of technologies giving us a wider range of the
capabilities we need to be a full-service partner to
Pharma.
Again, the fact that we’re all one organisation gives us
the distinct advantage of being able to work together
from early discovery to launch. And for our shareholders
there’s the additional advantage that they benefit from
the intellectual property generated during discovery
and development regardless of which division commer-
cialises it.
www.global-reports.com33
People are different — so are diseases
People can react very differently to the same medications. Some patients will benefit, while
others only experience unwanted side effects. Today, the response rates to treatments vary from
20% to 75%, depending on the drug and the disease. At Roche we’re committed to using our
expertise in molecular biology to gain deeper insights into disease and differences between
patients. This is part of our broader commitment to personalised healthcare (PHC). We are
seeking better drug targets and clinically relevant biomarkers that will one day enable doctors
to tailor treatments more closely to patients’ needs and predict which patients will benefit and
which ones won’t. This is the essence of PHC. In areas such as oncology and virology, patients
are already benefiting from safer, more effective treatments thanks to our commitment to PHC.
Diagnostics plays a key role
in Personalised Healthcare.
People react differently to medications.
One group of patients may benefit from treatment
while others experience unwanted side effects.
Roche Personalised Healthcare
is fitting the treatment to the patients.Pharmaceuticals |
In 2008 the
division again delivered strong underlying
sales and operating profit growth while
advancing key projects in its promising
R&D portfolio. Roche will continue to
develop clinically differentiated solutions
that address significant unmet needs in
the treatment of cancer and other complex
diseases. The Roche Group’s Pharma-
ceuticals Division is made up of Roche
Pharmaceuticals, represented in over
150 countries, and majority shareholdings
in Genentech in the United States and
Chugai in Japan.
www.global-reports.com35
Pharmaceuticals Division in brief
Sales | in millions of CHF Operating profit | in millions of CHF Number of employees
36,783 53,241 55,091 54,141
35,961
33,294 13,042 13,002
10,545
06 07 08 06 07 08 06 07 08
Key figures
% change % change in
In millions of CHF in CHF local currencies % of sales
Sales 35,961 –2 5 100
— Roche Pharmaceuticals 22,164 –4 3 62
— Genentech 10,461 0 11 29
— Chugai 3,336 –2 –4 9
Operating profit 13,002 0 8 36.2
Operating free cash flow 12,053 20 31 33.5
Research and development 7,904 4 11 22.0
Pharma Executive Committee | 31 December 2008
William M. Burns CEO Division Roche Pharmaceuticals
George B. Abercrombie North America
Jennifer M. Allerton Informatics
Silvia Ayyoubi Human Resources
Lee E. Babiss Pharma Research
Henry-Vincent Charbonné Strategic Marketing
Jean-Jacques Garaud Development
Peter Hug Western Europe
Jonathan K.C. Knowles1 Group Research
Dominic P. Moorhead Finance and Controlling
Christopher Murray1 Commercial Operations, Chugai
Pascal Soriot Commercial Operations
Jan van Koeveringe Global Technical Operations
Daniel Zabrowski Pharma Partnering
1 Extended team.36
Roche Business Report 2008 Pharmaceuticals
Pharmaceuticals Division Sales by region
The Pharmaceuticals In 2008 the Pharmaceuticals Division translated
Division again strong underlying sales growth into a strong in- North America 41% (+5%)
delivered strong creasein operating profit. In addition, the division Asia—Pacific 5% (+6%)
performance in 2008.
passed keyregulatory and development milestones Latin America 6% (+15%)
Excluding pandemic
inprojects expected to support the Roche Group’s Others 1% (–1%)
sales of Tamiflu,
pharmaceutical sales future growth. The most important of these are CEMAI 9% (+5%)
grew around twice themarketing approvals gained by Chugai and
theglobal market Rochefor their novel rheumatoid arthritis medicine
growth rate. The divi- Actemra/RoActemra in Japan, Switzerland and the Western Europe 29% (+5%)
sion’s operating
European Union. Ongoing development of key Japan 9% (–4%)
profitalso increased
marketed products resulted in regulatory filings
strongly. Italics = growth rates
andapprovals in important new indications for
CEMAI: Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa,
MabThera/Rituxan and Avastin in the United States Central Asia, Indian Subcontinent.
and the European Union. The division initiated twelve
major new phase III projects in 2008, including
clinical trials of the novel compounds pertuzumab, regions. The division’s sales performance is broadly
forbreast cancer, taspoglutide, for type 2 diabetes, based: in 2008 nine products generated annual
and dalcetrapib, for cardiovascular risk reduction. turnover of more than 1 billion Swiss francs each, three
With a diversified pipeline of major line extensions of which achieved sales ofover 5 billion francs each.
and innovative new molecular entities in late-stage
development, the division has unique opportunities In 2008 the Pharmaceuticals Division’s operating
for sustained growth in the years to come. profit advanced even faster than sales, rising 8% in
local currencies (0% in Swiss francs) to 13.0 billion
Swiss francs. The corresponding margin increased
Results 0.7percentage points to 36.2% compared with 2007
despite significantly lower Tamiflu pandemic sales
The Pharmaceuticals Division maintained its strong andincreased investments in research and develop-
performance throughout 2008, with solid growth of the ment. For more information on the division’s operating
underlying business more than compensating forthe results, see p. 5 of the Finance Report (Part 2 of
expected sharp decline in pandemic sales ofTamiflu thisAnnual Report).
togovernments and corporations. Divisional sales
increased 5% in local currencies (–2% in Swiss francs;
8% in US dollars) to 36.0 billion Swiss francs.1Exclud- Therapeutic areas
ing pandemic sales of Tamiflu, pharmaceutical sales
grew 10% in local currencies, or around twice the Oncology — key products post sustained
global market growth rate — the sixth double-digit double-digit growth
increase in as many years. Growth was driven primarily Cancer | According to the latest International
by key products in the division’s oncology, inflammation Agency for Research on Cancer estimate, in 2008
and transplant, virology and metabolism/bone portfolios over 12 million people worldwide were diagnosed
(forfull-year sales and growth rates ofindividual prod- with cancer, and some 7.6 million died of the
ucts, see below and table, ‘Top-selling pharmaceutical disease. The IARC anticipates that cancer will
products — Roche Group’, p. 39). On the same basis,
the division recorded above-market growth in all key 1 Unless otherwise stated, all growth rates are in local currencies.
www.global-reports.com37
In 2008 Roche continued to strengthen
its position as the world’s leading supplier
of medicines to treat cancer.
Sales by therapeutic area
Oncology 55% (+15%)
Inflammatory and autoimmune diseases, transplantation 9% (+19%)
Central nervous system 3% (–3%)
Respiratory 3% (+10%)
Metabolic diseases, bone diseases 8% (+7%)
Infectious diseases 1% (–12%)
Cardiovascular diseases 3% (–19%)
Virology 9% (–27%)
Others 2% (–14%)
Renal anemia 4% (–11%)
Ophthalmology 3% (+7%)
Italics = growth rates
surpass heart disease as the leading cause 80% since the early 1970s and currently affects
of death worldwide in 2010 and also forecasts that over 1.5 million people worldwide.
by 2030 there will be over 26 million new cases
and 17 million deaths per year from cancer. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia | The most
In Europe alone, one in three people can expect common type of leukemia in adults, accounting for
to develop cancer in their lifetime. Cancer is approximately 25–30% of all forms of leukemia.
not one disease but a group of more than 100 The incidence of CLL in Western countries is
distinct disorders, each with its own medical around 2–4 per 100,000, and it is twice as com-
challenges. mon in men as in women.
In 2008 Roche continued to strengthen its position MabThera/Rituxan(rituximab) is the leading
asthe world’s leading supplier of medicines to treat treatment for patients with non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
cancer. Sales of the Pharmaceuticals Division’s (NHL) and the first and only selective B cell therapy
oncology portfolio2rose 15% to 19.7 billion Swiss approved for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis
francs for the year, or 55% of total pharmaceutical (see p. 44). In 2008 combined sales of the product
sales, with all key brands contributing double-digit inthe oncology and inflammation/autoimmune
growth. Just as importantly, the Group advanced segments grew 16% versus the prior-year period
keydevelopment programmes and filed marketing to5.9 billion Swiss francs. Strong to solid growth
applications aimed at making more effective wasrecorded in Europe/Rest of World (RoW)3(19%),
treatmentoptions available to doctors and cancer theUS (14%) and Japan (10%). Growth in oncology
patients or expanding the range of conditions for is being driven by sustained expansion in the use
which innovative medicines such as MabThera/ ofMabThera/Rituxan for induction and maintenance
Rituxan, Avastin, Herceptin, Tarceva and Xeloda
canbe prescribed.
2 Oncology portfolio (main products): MabThera/Rituxan,
Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma | A group of over Herceptin, Avastin, Tarceva, Xeloda, NeoRecormon, Kytril,
Neutrogin, Neupogen, Bondronat, Roferon-A, Furtulon, Vesanoid.
30 cancers that affect the lymphatic system.
3 Roche defines Europe/Rest of World as covering Europe and all
This class of cancer has grown in incidence by other countries except Japan and the United States.38
Roche Business Report 2008 Pharmaceuticals
All of the division’s therapy of NHL and improved access in emerging Kidney cancer | This type of cancer is newly
key cancer medicines markets for all approved indications. diagnosed in around 200,000 people and causes
contributed double- 100,000 deaths worldwide every year, rates that
digit sales growth.
During the year Roche and its partners, Genentech are expected to increase. Renal cell carcinoma
Inaddition, Roche
and Biogen Idec, achieved important milestones accounts for 90% of all kidney cancers.
and its partners
achieved important intheongoing development of MabThera/Rituxan.
milestones in the InJanuary Roche announced results of a major Global sales of Avastin (bevacizumab), the world’s
development of phaseIII trial (CLL8) of MabThera as first-line leading antiangiogenesis treatment for advanced
MabThera/Rituxan, treatment forchronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). colorectal, breast, lung and kidney cancer, rose
Avastin, Herceptin,
The study showed that combined treatment with strongly throughout 2008, advancing 37% to 5.2 bil-
Tarceva and Xeloda
MabThera and the current standard chemotherapy lion Swiss francs, with all key regions contributing.
innew treatment
achieved significantly better outcomes than chemo- Dynamic sales growth in Europe/RoW (67%) was
indications.
therapy alone. Roche used these data to support driven primarily by increased use of the medicine
anapplication, filed in July, to add this new indication formetastatic colorectal and breast cancer. Sales in
to the medicine’s EU marketing authorisation. In Jan- Europe also benefited from the rollout of new
uary 2009 the EU’s Committee for Medicinal Products indications and increasing uptake for non-small cell
for Human Use (CHMP) recommended approval of lung cancer and renal cell carcinoma. In the United
MabThera in this indication. InDecember Roche States solid double-digit growth continued (17%),
received approval in Switzerland for MabThera as ini- driven primarily by increased use in metastatic non-
tial (first-line) treatment in certainpatients with CLL. small cell lung and in metastatic breast cancer following
accelerated approval by the US Food andDrug
In October a study of MabThera/Rituxan in patients Administration (FDA). In Japan, whereAvastin is
with relapsed or refractory CLL (REACH) met its approved for metastatic colorectal cancer,sales
primary endpoint, demonstrating that patients treated continue to grow strongly.
with MabThera combined with the current standard
chemotherapy showed a significant improvement Avastin received additional regulatory approvals in
inprogression-free survival (the time patients key markets during the year. In January the EU
livewithout their cancer getting worse) compared authorities approved an extension of the product’s
with those who received chemotherapy alone. metastatic colorectal cancer indication, permitting
Thesedata formed the basis for a regulatory filing thecombination of Avastin with the most commonly
inthe EU for this indication, submitted by Roche in used chemotherapy regimens in all lines of treatment.
January 2009. The results of CLL8 andREACH were As a result, virtually all patients with metastatic
presented at the American Society of Hematology colorectal cancer can now have access to the proven
annual meeting in December. Genentech and Biogen survival benefits of Avastin. In February Genentech
Idec are evaluating the data from both trials and received accelerated approval from the FDA for
expect to submit supplementary Biologic License Avastin, in combination with paclitaxel chemotherapy,
Applications for these indications inthe US by for the first-line treatment of patients with HER2-
thethird quarter of 2009. negative metastatic breast cancer.
Colorectal cancer | Cancer of the large intestine In July Roche filed an application to expand and
or rectum, which accounts for over 1 million update the current EU approval for Avastin in meta-
new cases (around 10% of all newly diagnosed static breast cancer with final data from the AVADO
cancers) worldwide each year. It is the second study, which were also presented at the 2008 meeting
most common cause of cancer deaths in Europe of the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO)
and the third most common worldwide. in June. This phase III clinical study confirmed the
www.global-reports.com39
In 2008 nine pharmaceutical products
generated sales of more than 1 billion Swiss
francs each, including three with sales
of over 5 billion francs each.
Top-selling pharmaceutical products — Roche Group
Sales % change
in millions in local
Product Active substance Indication of CHF currencies
MabThera/Rituxan rituximab non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, chronic 5,923 16
lymphocytic leukemia, rheumatoid arthritis
Avastin bevacizumab colorectal cancer, breast cancer, 5,207 37
non-small cell lung cancer, kidney cancer
Herceptin trastuzumab HER2-positive breast cancer 5,092 12
CellCept mycophenolate mofetil transplantation 2,099 13
NeoRecormon, Epogin epoetin beta anemia 1,774 –13
Pegasys peginterferon alfa-2a hepatitis B and C 1,635 6
Tarceva erlotinib advanced non-small cell lung cancer, 1,215 23
advanced pancreatic cancer
Xeloda capecitabine colorectal cancer, breast cancer, stomach cancer 1,211 13
Bonviva/Boniva ibandronic acid osteoporosis 1,108 35
Lucentis1 ranibizumab wet age-related macular degeneration 960 7
Tamiflu oseltamivir treatment and prevention of influenza A and B 609 –68
Xolair1 omalizumab asthma 560 10
Valcyte, Cymevene valganciclovir, ganciclovir cytomegalovirus infection 553 10
Xenical orlistat weight loss, weight control 502 –13
Pulmozyme dornase alfa/DNase cystic fibrosis 496 12
Nutropin somatropin growth hormone deficiency 413 –2
Neutrogin lenograstim neutropenia associated with chemotherapy 404 –3
Rocephin ceftriaxone bacterial infections 344 –10
Activase, TNKase alteplase, tenecteplase acute myocardial infarction (heart attack) 342 –1
Madopar levodopa + benserazide Parkinson’s disease 311 4
1 Jointly marketed by Genentech and Novartis.
results of an earlier trial (E2100), showing that forexpansion of the product’s marketing approval to
Avastin combined with taxane chemotherapy signifi- include non-small cell lung cancer.
cantly improves progression-free survival in this
setting. In September Genentech filed a supplemen- Other important clinical data on the benefits of
tary application with the FDA for approval of Avastin Avastin in breast and lung cancer were published
in combination with interferon alfa to treat advanced during the year. In November Roche announced
renal cell carcinoma. In November Genentech also thata phase III trial (RIBBON-1) investigating Avastin
applied for US approval of the medicine as mono- in first-line metastatic HER2-negative breast cancer
therapy for people with previously treated (relapsed) incombination with commonly used chemotherapies
glioblastoma, the most aggressive form of brain met its primary endpoint of increasing the time
tumour, based on positive results from a phase II women with breast cancer lived without their disease
clinical trial (BRAIN). Roche applied for EU approval advancing (progression-free survival) compared
of Avastin alone and combined with chemotherapy withchemotherapy alone. After AVADO and E2100,
forthe same indication in December. In November RIBBON-1 is the third study to confirm the benefit
Chugai filed a supplementary application in Japan ofAvastin combined with chemotherapy for women40
Roche Business Report 2008 Pharmaceuticals
with metastatic breast cancer. In October Roche combination hasbeen shown to reduce the rate of
announced the first results from a phase III study heart problemsobserved when Herceptin is given
(BeTa Lung) investigating the use of Avastin withanthracycline-containing regimens, thereby
plusTarceva for the second-line treatment of patients potentiallyallowing more patients to benefit from
with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. While the Herceptin.
combination did not meet the primary endpoint of
overall survival, there was clear evidence of clinical The final analysis of a phase III trial (GBG-26),
activity, with improvements in the secondary end- presented at ASCO 2008 in June, confirmed that
points of progression-free survival and response rate Herceptin helps women with metastatic HER2-
when Tarceva was added to Avastin. positive breast cancer live longer without their
cancerprogressing (progression-free survival).
Breast cancer | The most common cancer among Theresults also showed that Herceptin continued
women worldwide. Over 1 million women are tobe effective in women who needed additional
newly diagnosed and over 500,000 die from the treatment after theircancer progressed during
disease each year. As there are several different previous Herceptin treatment. Results of the Gepar-
types of breast cancer, knowledge of tumour Quattro and NOAH trials presented at medical
characteristics is important for treatment deci- conferences in April and December, respectively,
sions. Some 20–30% of women with breast cancer showed that Herceptin, givenin combination with
have tumours with abnormally high levels of a standard chemotherapy before surgery (known
protein known as HER2. HER2-positive tumours asneoadjuvant therapy), helpsshrink locally
are particularly aggressive, fast-growing and advanced tumours, enabling breast-conserving
likely to relapse. surgery and improving long-term outcomes. Final
analysis of the NOAH data showed that adding
Herceptin(trastuzumab), for early and advanced Herceptin to chemotherapy eradicated the tumour
HER2-positive breast cancer, posted solid double-digit innearly twice as many patients as treatment with
sales growth (12%) throughout 2008, for a total of 5.1 chemotherapy alone.
billion Swiss francs. Growth was especially strong in
Japan (47%) due to continuing uptake after approval Lung cancer | The most common form of cancer
of Herceptin for early breast cancer in February. Solid worldwide and the leading cause of cancer deaths.
single-digit growth was recorded in the United States There are an estimated 1.4 million new cases
(7%), while double-digit gains wereachieved in annually. Non-small cell lung cancer is the most
Europe/RoW (13%). The main contributions to growth common form, accounting for approximately
in the latter region came from the CEMAI4countries 80% of all cases.
and key emerging markets. More modest growth in
the US and Western Europe reflects the product’s high Pancreatic cancer | A particularly aggressive
market penetration in these regions, particularly in the disease that is extremely difficult to treat. It kills
early breast cancer setting. Adoption of Herceptin for a higher proportion of patients in the first year
metastatic breast cancer remained stable. In January after diagnosis than any other cancer. The fifth
the FDA approved the use of Herceptin as a single leading cause of cancer deaths in the developed
agent for the adjuvant treatment of HER2-positive world, pancreatic cancer claims nearly 80,000
breast cancer following multimodality anthracycline- lives every year.
based therapy. In May Genentech received FDA
approval for a supplemental regimen for adjuvant
HER2-positive breast cancer combining Herceptin
4 Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa, Central Asia,
with docetaxel and carboplatin chemotherapy. This Indian Subcontinent.
www.global-reports.com41
Tarceva(erlotinib) is the only oral medicine target- amarketing application for this new indication.
ingthe epidermal growth factor receptor with proven OSIPharmaceuticals, in collaboration with Genentech
andsignificant survival and symptom benefits in a and Roche, expects to submit a supplemental
broad range of patients with non-small cell lung NewDrug Application to the US FDA in the first half
cancer (NSCLC). Since its initial launch four years of 2009 based on the SATURN data.
ago, Tarceva has been approved in over 90 countries
and used to treat more than a quarter of a million Gastric (stomach) cancer | Accounts for close to
patients. In addition, in combination with chemo- 1 million new cases and well over 800,000 deaths
therapy, Tarceva is the first treatment in over a decade each year, making it the second-largest cause
to have shown a significant survival benefit in treating of cancer deaths worldwide. The vast majority of
patients with pancreatic cancer. Sales of Tarceva cases occur in Asia, where, with lung cancer,
continued to increase strongly in 2008, growing 23% it is the leading malignancy.
to 1.2 billion Swiss francs overall, with the main
contributions coming from Western Europe and the Xeloda(capecitabine), an oral chemotherapy
Asia—Pacific region. Market uptake is particularly medicine for colorectal, stomach and breast cancer,
strong in Japan and China. Market penetration in recorded sustained double-digit sales growth
Western Europe also continued to expand strongly, throughout 2008, with sales increasing 13% to 1.2 bil-
while double-digit sales growth was maintained in the lion Swiss francs. Growth in Japan was particularly
United States. Expanding uptake in all regions reflects strong (74%), and solid increases were also achieved
doctors’ growing experience with and confidence in in the United States (9%) and Europe/RoW (14%).
the product. In November the UK’s National Institute Sales were driven by expanded indications approved
for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) issued in 2007 and 2008, notably stomach cancer and
finalguidance for Tarceva as an alternative to doce- advanced colorectal cancer, along with continued
taxel chemotherapy for the second-line treatment uptake in breast cancer. Growth is also being helped
ofNSCLC, opening the way for reimbursement by new clinical data and reimbursement approvals,
bytheNational Health Service. ascombination regimens with Xeloda gain accept-
ance as standard therapy in these indications.
New data from the phase II FAST-ACT trial, presented Xelodais generating strong double-digit sales growth
at the 2008 ASCO and European Society for Medical in China following approval there in September
Oncology meetings, showed that first-line treatment foradvanced stomach cancer. In February the EU
with Tarceva alternating with chemotherapy and fol- authorities approved Xeloda for the treatment of
lowed by Tarceva maintenance therapy significantly metastatic colorectal cancer in combination with
improved progression-free survival in Asian patients anychemotherapy in all lines of treatment, with or
with advanced NSCLC compared with chemotherapy withoutAvastin. This approval provides new treat-
alone, irrespective of tumour type or mutation status. mentoptions for the large number of patients with
In November Roche announced that the phase III metastatic disease. Also in February, Chugai filed
SATURN study had met its primary endpoint, demon- anapplication in Japan to expand the product’s
strating that first-line maintenance treatment with approval to allow its combination with oxaliplatin
Tarceva (given immediately following initial treatment chemotherapy, with or without Avastin, for the
with platinum-based chemotherapy) significantly treatment ofmetastatic colorectal cancer.
extended progression-free survival for patients with
advanced NSCLC. The results show for the first Transplantation — CellCept continues to expand
timethat earlier treatment with Tarceva delays market share
lungcancer progression. Roche will discuss the CellCept(mycophenolate mofetil), a leading com-
datawithregulatory agencies and plans to submit ponent of immunosuppressant combination therapy42
Roche Business Report 2008 Pharmaceuticals
A broad commitment to fighting cancer
Products in clinical development phases II or III
Cancer type Marketed products (including additional indications for marketed products)
Gastrointestinal tract1 Avastin, Furtulon, Tarceva, Xeloda Avastin, Herceptin, Xeloda
Breast Avastin, Furtulon, Herceptin, Xeloda Avastin, pertuzumab, trastuzumab-DM1,
Xeloda, R1507 (anti-IGF-1R)
Lung Avastin, Tarceva Avastin, Apomab, Apo2L/TRAIL, Tarceva, R1507
Blood and immune system2 MabThera/Rituxan, Vesanoid Avastin, MabThera/Rituxan, R7159 (3rd-
generation anti-CD 20), dacetuzumab, Apomab,
Apo2L/TRAIL
Genitourinary system3 Avastin, Furtulon, Roferon-A Avastin, pertuzumab, R3484
Skin and soft tissue R1507, Apomab, R3616 (hedgehog pathway
inhibitor)
Brain Avastin
Childhood cancers R1507, Xeloda, Avastin
Supportive care Bondronat, Kytril, NeoRecormon, Epogin
Neulastim, Neupogen, Neutrogin
1 Includes colon, rectum, stomach, pancreas, liver.
2 Includes non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, acute promyelocytic leukemia.
3 Includes kidney, prostate, ovary, cervix.
For more information on development projects see ‘Major development activities’, p. 47, and ‘Pharmaceuticals pipeline’, inside back cover.
toprevent rejection of solid organ transplants, again The Roche Group’s anemia franchise includes three
recorded a double-digit increase in sales in 2008, erythropoietin-stimulating agents (ESAs): Roche’s
advancing 13% to 2.1 billion Swiss francs. Growth Mircera(methoxy polyethylene glycol-epoetin beta),
wasdriven primarily by strong demand in theUS the first continuous erythropoietin receptor
andJapan. (See below, p. 44, for a review ofValcyte activator,and the established shorter-acting ESAs
and Cymevene.) NeoRecormonand Epogin (epoetin beta),
fromRoche and Chugai, respectively. All three
Anemia — Overall sales decline in a competitive, medicines are used to treat symptomatic anemia in
cost-sensitive market patients withchronic kidney disease. In addition,
Anemia | Occurs when the level of red blood cells NeoRecormonis approved to treat chemotherapy-
and/or the hemoglobin they contain falls below induced anemia in cancer patients.
normal, starving organs and tissues of oxygen. Itis
seen in over 80% of patients with chronic kidney Combined sales of NeoRecormon and Epogin
(renal) disease, which affects more than 500 million declined 13% to 1.8 billion Swiss francs in 2008,
people worldwide. In addition, anemia affects three inanincreasingly competitive, highly cost-sensitive
out of four cancer patients undergoing chemo- market, characterised by heavily discounted contract
therapy. Patients with untreated anemia may tenders and group purchasing. New guidelines on
needblood transfusions. The potential long-term theuse of ESAs in cancer and renal patients issued
effects of anemia include cardiovascular disease during the year by the European Medicines Agency
inrenal patients, while in patients with cancer it (EMEA) and other regulators also contributed to
isassociated with diminished quality of life. theoverall contraction of the global anemia market.
InEurope/RoW erosion of NeoRecormon sales has
www.global-reports.com43
Roche Diagnostics’ highly sensitive cobas
PCR tests are helping to personalise treatment
with Pegasys for people with chronic HCV
infection.
been moderate (–10%) despite the entry of several key emerging markets, combined with solid market- Pegasys maintained
biosimilar versions of epoetin alfa since late 2007. share growth in the United States, where Pegasys its clear leadership of
InJapan, where Epoginremains the market leader, now accounts for 70% of new prescriptions for the global pegylated
interferon market
an18% decline in sales of the medicine was due hepatitis C. In June the EU authorities approved a
andcontinued to gain
primarily to sustained pricing pressure and govern- shortened course of treatment with Pegasys plus
market share world-
ment-mandated price cuts that came into effect Copegus for patients with genotype 2 or 3 HCV
wide. As expected,
inApril. As of January 2009 Mircerahas been infection who have very low virus levels and show a sales of Tamiflu
approved in 72 countries worldwide and launched rapid virological response. The approval personalises continued to decline
in56, including the major EU markets. Physician therapy for these patients, offering a chance for due to substantially
reduced pandemic
feedback in the early launch markets is positive. curewith only four months’ treatment. This new
stockpiling orders
Salesare modest but are progressing as the prod- approach is made possible by Roche Diagnostics’
from governments
uct’sglobal rollout continues. highly sensitive, real-time cobas PCR diagnostic tests.
and corporations.
In November Roche also received EU approval for
Virology — Pegasys maintains clear market theretreatment of patients whose chronic HCV
leadership, expands market share infection did not respond to previous treatment with
Hepatitis B and C | The hepatitis B and C viruses interferon alfa (pegylated or non-pegylated), alone
(HBV, HCV), which are commonly transmitted orin combination with ribavirin. Pegasys is thefirst
through blood-to-blood contact, cause acute and and only pegylated interferon to be indicatedfor
chronic liver disease, potentially leading to liver retreatment of up to 72 weeks, allowing therapy to
failure, cirrhosis and liver cancer. Worldwide, bepersonalised and optimised. The recommended
350 million people are thought to be chronically retreatment period depends on the HCV genotype,
infected with HBV, a highly infectious virus that the type of previous treatment andthepatient’s
is responsible for an estimated 1 million deaths virological response during retreatment.
annually. More than 170 million people around the
world are infected with HCV, and 3 to 4 million Influenza, or flu | A highly contagious, debilitat-
new cases occur each year. Hepatitis C is the main ing viral illness that occurs mainly in the autumn
reason for liver transplantation. A recent study and winter months in temperate climates and
on the HCV-related burden of disease in 22 Euro- year-round in tropical areas. It is particularly
pean countries estimated that between seven and dangerous for young children, the elderly and
nine million people, or over 1% of the population, people with chronic health problems. Each year,
are infected with HCV. 100 million people fall ill with the flu in Europe,
Japan and the US alone. It is estimated that more
Pegasys(peginterferon alfa-2a) is indicated for the than 500,000 people globally die each year
treatment of chronic hepatitis B and C. It is used from the disease or its complications. Pandemics,
alone in the treatment of hepatitis B, and in com- or global epidemics, are caused by novel strains
bination with Copegus (ribavirin) in the treatment of influenza to which people have no immunity.
ofhepatitis C. In addition, Pegasys is the pegylated Pandemics are associated with significant levels
interferon of choice for use in clinical trials with the of illness and death and occur every 10 to 40 years.
new generation of direct antiviral agents (see below, The World Health Organization (WHO) and medical
p. 50), which are expected to increase cure rates experts continue to warn that the next influenza
and/or shorten treatment duration. In 2008 Pegasys pandemic may be imminent.
maintained its clear leadership of the global pegylated
interferon market and continued to gain market share As forecast, total sales of the anti-influenza medicine
worldwide. Global sales advanced 6% to 1.6 billion Tamiflu(oseltamivir) continued to decline in 2008,
Swiss francs, driven by strong growth in Japan and with the fall of 68% to 609 million Swiss francs due44
Roche Business Report 2008 Pharmaceuticals
Worldwide uptake tosubstantially reduced pandemic stockpiling orders Inflammation and autoimmune disorders —
ofMabThera/Rituxan from governments and corporations. The expected Actemra/RoActemra approved for rheumatoid
for rheumatoid sharp fall-off in pandemic sales, down 1.6 billion arthritis in Japan, Switzerland and EU
arthritis isstrong.
Swiss francs compared with 2007, more than out- Autoimmune disorders | Occur as a result of
Itisnow themarket
weighed a significant increase in seasonal sales, a mistaken immune response to the body’s own
leader outside the
which rose 76% to 372 million Swiss francs. The main tissues. The causes are unknown. Rheumatoid
USfor the treatment
of RA that has not contributions to seasonal sales came from the United arthritis, multiple sclerosis and lupus erythematosus
responded adequately States, where the 2007/2008 flu season was partic- are among the most common autoimmune dis-
to TNF inhibitor ularly severe. As part of its policy to help ensure orders, which affect millions of people worldwide.
therapy. Actemra/
pandemic readiness, Roche continued to work with
RoActemra was
governments worldwide on appropriate Tamiflu Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) | A chronic, progressive
approved for RA
stockpiles, in line with WHO recommendations. Based inflammatory disease of the joints and surround-
inJapan and
Switzerland in 2008 on data provided by Roche and Chugai, the authori- ing tissues that is associated with intense pain,
and in the EU in ties in the United States, Japan, Canada, Australia irreversible joint destruction and systemic compli-
January 2009. and elsewhere have increased the shelf-life of cations. B cells (a type of immune cell) are known
government stockpiles of Tamiflu to seven years. to play a key role in the inflammation associated
Roche has filed data to support similar shelf-life with RA. Several key cytokines, or proteins, are
extensions in other countries. also involved, including TNF alfa, interleukin-1
(IL-1) and interleukin-6 (IL-6). IL-6 has been iden-
Combined sales of Valcyte (valgancyclovir) and tified as having a pivotal role in the inflammation
Cymevene(ganciclovir), the standard of care for process. Around 21 million people worldwide
thetreatment of cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis in are thought to be affected by RA.
patients with HIV/AIDS and for the prevention of
CMV disease in at-risk transplant patients, rose 10% Estimated sales5of MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab)
to 553 million Swiss francs in 2008. Robust growth inthe inflammation/autoimmune segment amounted
throughout the year was driven mainly by demand to approximately 800 million Swiss francs in 2008,
inEurope/RoW, with very strong gains recorded driven by strong worldwide uptake of the product for
inGermany and Spain. In July the FDA granted the treatment of severe rheumatoid arthritis. Thefirst
pediatric exclusivity for Valcyte in the United States. and only selective B cell therapy approved inthis
This extends the medicine’s patent protection for indication, MabThera/Rituxan has rapidly established
sixmonths, to September 2015. itself as a proven choice for RA patients with inade-
quate response to tumour necrosis factor (TNF)
In the third quarter of 2008, following extensive inhibitor therapy and is now the market leaderin this
toxicology studies by Roche, both the EU and the indication outside the US. Observational data showing
Swiss authorities confirmed that the presence the superiority of MabThera/Rituxan over sequential
ofachemical impurity in some batches of the HIV use of TNF inhibitors and the product’s increasingly
medicine Viracept (nelfinavir) last year did not positive long-term efficacy and safety profile are
present a risk to patients. The authorities have deter- convincing more and more rheumatologists to move
mined that there is now no need to follow patients patients to MabThera/Rituxan following inadequate
inregistries. The discovery of the impurity led to response to their first TNF inhibitor. Theuse of
aglobal recall of Viracept in June 2007. Since then, MabThera/Rituxan in this setting is supported by a
Viracept has been reintroduced in the EU, Switzer- growing body of evidence, including new clinical trial
landand other markets where Roche supplies the data presented at medical conferences in 2008
product.
5 Based on data from Genentech and from Roche territories.
www.global-reports.com45
Eleven major new marketing applications filed
and 13 major regulatory approvals gained.
Major regulatory filings in 20081
Product Active substance Indication and/or dosage form Country
Avastin bevacizumab metastatic breast cancer, combination with docetaxel EU, Switzerland
metastatic colorectal cancer, combination Japan
with Xeloda and oxaliplatin
first-line metastatic renal cell carcinoma, USA
combination with interferon alfa-2a
relapsed glioblastoma multiforme USA, EU
non-small cell lung cancer Japan
Rituxan rituximab rheumatoid arthritis, patients with an inadequate response USA
to a disease-modifying antirheumatic drug
MabThera rituximab first-line chronic lymphocytic leukemia EU, Switzerland
relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia EU2
Xeloda capecitabine metastatic colorectal cancer, monotherapy and combination Japan
with Avastin and oxaliplatin
Major regulatory approvals in 20081
Product Active substance Indication and/or dosage form Country
Actemra tocilizumab rheumatoid arthritis, polyarticular-course juvenile Japan
idiopathic arthritis, systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis
RoActemra tocilizumab rheumatoid arthritis Switzerland, EU2
Avastin bevacizumab renal cell carcinoma Switzerland
first- and second-line metastatic colorectal cancer, EU, Switzerland
combination with oxaliplatin
HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer, first-line, USA3, Switzerland
combination with paclitaxel
Herceptin trastuzumab adjuvant HER2-positive breast cancer, as a single agent USA
following multimodality anthracycline-based therapy
adjuvant HER2-positive breast cancer, combined with USA
a non-anthracycline regimen containing docetaxel
and carboplatin; or with docetaxel following a regimen
containing doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide
adjuvant HER2-positive breast cancer Japan
MabThera rituximab first-line chronic lymphocytic leukemia Switzerland
Xeloda capecitabine metastatic colorectal cancer, first- and second-line, EU, Switzerland
combination treatment
1 Includes supplemental indications; updated to 23 January 2009.
2 January 2009.
3 Accelerated approval (FDA).46
Roche Business Report 2008 Pharmaceuticals
The Group’s R&D showing sustained or improved reduction of disease letter to Roche’s US marketing application for
activities are focused activity with repeated treatment courses and sus- Actemra, the FDA requested additional documen-
on creating clinically tained inhibition of the progression ofjoint damage. tation. Following further discussions and as a result
differentiated medi-
ofthe FDA’s evolving Risk Evaluation and Mitigation
cines based on small
Roche, Genentech and Biogen Idec continued devel- Strategy (REMS) requirements for medications, in
molecules, therapeu-
tic proteins and next- opment programmes evaluating additional RA settings December the agency asked Roche to prepare a
generation biologics. in which MabThera/Rituxan may provide benefit to REMS plan for Actemra. In addition, based on the
In addition, Roche patients. Two major trials in a phase III programme evolving requirements for approval of new biologics,
R&D is exploring investigating the medicine for use in RA patients the FDA has asked Roche for non-clinical animal
RNA interference,
withless advanced disease met their primary end- model data, beyond that which was included in the
apromising new
points in 2008. In January results from the SERENE original marketing application. Roche is performing
approach that uses
study in patients with an inadequate response to pre- the requested preclinical studies and expects to sub-
targeted gene
silencing. vious therapy with disease-modifying antirheumatic mit the complete response for Actemra to the FDA in
drugs (DMARDs) showed that significantly the third quarter of 2009. The FDA has not requested
morepatients treated with MabThera/Rituxan plus additional clinical studies prior to approval.
methotrexate (MTX) achieved an improvement in
disease signs and symptoms compared with those Metabolic disorders — Bonviva/Boniva maintains
who received MTX alone. In December Roche robust growth in a competitive market
announced that IMAGE, a radiographic study Osteoporosis | A systemic skeletal disease
assessing the ability of MabThera/Rituxan to inhibit characterised by a loss of bone mass, leading to
structural joint damage in patients not previously bone weakness and a susceptibility to fracture.
treated with MTX, had also met its primary endpoint. Millions of people worldwide are affected —
Roche plans to use the signs and symptoms data one in three postmenopausal women and one
inconjunction with the radiographic data to support in five men over the age of 50.
acombined EU regulatory filing for additional RA
indications in 2009. In September, based on the Bonviva/Boniva(ibandronic acid) is a highly effective
SERENE data, Genentech filed a supplementary and well tolerated medicine for women with post-
marketing application in the US seeking approval menopausal osteoporosis. It is available as a once-
forRituxan in RA patients with inadequate response monthly tablet and a three-monthly injection. In an
to DMARD therapy. increasingly competitive market environment Bonviva/
Boniva recorded solid overall sales performance in
Actemra/RoActemra(tocilizumab) is a first-in-class 2008, with sales increasing 35% to 1.1 billion Swiss
therapy based on IL-6 inhibition, representing a novel francs. Further market-share gains supported robust
approach to the treatment of patients with moderate growth in Europe/RoW and the United States despite
to severe RA. Following approval in April of Actemra the entry of generic versions of competitor products
for RA in adults and for related pediatric disorders in the US and Europe. New data from a retrospective
and the subsequent rollout by Chugai, sales uptake observational study in over 64,000 postmenopausal
inJapan has been very encouraging. In December women (VIBE) presented at a major European
theSwiss authorities approved RoActemra for the rheumatology congress in June provided additional
treatment of moderately severe to severe, active evidence for the effectiveness of once-monthly
rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients who have not Bonviva compared with weekly bisphosphonates
responded adequately to treatment with DMARDs inpreventing vertebral, non-vertebral and hip frac-
orTNF inhibitors. Roche received EUmarketing tures. In November, the FDA expanded the existing
approval for RoActemra in the same indication in marketing approval for once-monthly Boniva to
January2009. In September, in a complete response include prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis.
www.global-reports.com47
Roche is uniquely positioned to help realise
the promise of personalised healthcare.
Research and development greater value in the future, thus meeting growing The global develop-
stakeholder expectations for safer, more effective ment programme
In 2008 the Pharmaceuticals Division continued to andmore cost-efficient treatments. forAvastin includes
more than 450 clinical
build the value of its research and development
trials with around
portfolio, advancing twelve projects in the areas of Major development activities
40,000 patients in
oncology, metabolic and inflammatory–autoimmune Oncology | The global development programme over 30 different
diseases into phase III clinical testing (see ‘Pharma- forAvastincurrently includes more than 450 clinical tumour types.
ceuticals pipeline’, fold-out at the end of this trials with around 40,000 patients in over 30 different PhaseIII studies with
BusinessReport). tumour types. Phase III studies in diseases such Avastin in colon,
ovarian, prostate and
asovarian, prostate and gastric (stomach) cancer are
stomach cancer
Over the last 18 months Roche Pharmaceuticals has scheduled to report over the next two years. Final
arescheduled
decentralised the management of its R&D projects results from a key clinical trial of Avastin in the early
toreport over the
bycreating five Disease Biology Areas (DBAs). colon cancer setting (NSABP C08) are expected nexttwo years.
TheOncology, Viral Diseases, Inflammation, Metabolic in2009, with the results of another trial in the same
Diseases andCentral Nervous System DBAs set setting (AVANT) due in 2010. Important milestones
priorities and make portfolio decisions for their spe- were passed in several Avastin programmes in 2008:
cific diseases. This is already helping to streamline BETH, a global phase III trial of Avastin combined
theresearch portfolio and is expected to increase the with Herceptin in adjuvant HER2-positive breast
number and quality of programmes being advanced cancer, started in May; patient recruitment for the
into clinical development. phase III AVAGAST trial in first-line advanced gastric
cancer was completed in December; and BERNIE,
The Group’s R&D activities are focused on creating aphase II trial to assess Avastin in combination with
clinically differentiated medicines based on small mol- standard chemotherapy in children and adolescents
ecules (chemical compounds) and therapeutic pro- with sarcoma, commenced in July. In October the
teins (mainly monoclonal antibodies and peptides), EUauthorities approved a pediatric investigation
including glycoengineering and next-generation bio- planfor Avastin; the studies included will eventually
logics. In addition, Roche R&D is now exploring small provide physicians with new data on dosing and
interfering ribonucleic acid molecules (also known safety that can improve clinical outcomes specifically
asRNA interference, or RNAi), a promising approach for children.
based on the concept of targeted gene silencing
thatit is hoped will eventually yield powerful new In collaboration with OSI Pharmaceuticals and
therapeutic options. Genentech, Roche is conducting an extensive devel-
opment programme of more than 130 clinical studies
In addition, Roche is uniquely positioned to help with Tarceva at earlier stages of lung cancer
realise the promise of personalised healthcare, an andincombination with other treatments, including
approach that seeks to tailor treatments to specific Avastin, to further evaluate the life-extending benefits
patient subpopulations based on knowledge of of Tarceva for patients with NSCLC. Ongoing and
thebiological differences between patients and the planned phase III studies in the Tarceva development
characteristics of their disease (see ‘Personalised programme include a randomised phase III trial
healthcare’, p. 30). The Roche Group’s combined (ATLAS) evaluating the addition of Tarceva to Avastin
pharmaceuticals and diagnostics expertise gives for maintenance therapy following first-line treatment
usaclear competitive advantage in this area. Roche with Avastin and chemotherapy in patients with
hasalready achieved notable successes with this advanced NSCLC. Initial results from this trial are
approach in oncology and virology, and we expect expected in the first half of 2009.
ourfocus on personalised healthcare to contribute48
Roche Business Report 2008 Pharmaceuticals
The first phase III trial Several studies are currently evaluating Herceptin in In 2008 progress was also made with a range of
with pertuzumab in combination with Avastin or pertuzumab in patients oncology projects in earlier stages of development,
HER2-positive breast with HER2-positive breast cancer. In addition to BETH including one that will soon move into phase III,
cancer began in 2008.
(see above, Avastin), CLEOPATRA and NEOSPHERE thelast stage of clinical testing before a marketing
Progress was also
(see below, pertuzumab), Herceptin is also being application is filed. Trastuzumab-DM1(T-DM1,
made with oncology
studied in a global phase III study (AVEREL) in R3502) isa novel antibody–drug conjugate linking
projects in earlier
stages of develop- combination with Avastin in the first-line treatment trastuzumab (the active ingredient of Herceptin)
ment, including the ofadvanced breast cancer. Herceptin is also being andthe cytotoxic agent DM1. By targeting the HER2
novel antibody-drug investigated in HER2-positive advanced gastric cancer proteins expressed by tumours, the conjugate
conjugate T-DM1,
in the phase III ToGA study. Around 20% of patients deliverschemotherapy to the cancer cells in a precise
which will soon
with gastric cancer have HER2-positive disease. manner. T-DM1 has shown promising clinical
enterthe last phase
efficacyand good tolerability in phase II clinical trials
of development.
Interim results from a phase III trial with 1,500 in women with HER2-positive metastatic breast
patients by the Finnish Breast Cancer Group, pre- cancer. Roche and Genentech have decided to move
sented at the San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium T-DM1 into phase III development for second-line
in December, suggest that Xeloda, which is already HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer; the first trial
approved for advanced breast cancer, may also in this programme is scheduled to start in the first
reduce cancer recurrence and extend survival in halfof 2009.
patients with early breast cancer. A similar Roche-
sponsored study with Xeloda in early breast cancer R1507is a monoclonal antibody targeting the IGF-1R
(NO17629) is ongoing. Roche plans to seek regula- receptor. The IGF pathway is important for the growth
tory approval for Xeloda in this indication. A phase III and survival of a variety of cancers. R1507 is well
trial of the medicine in early colon cancer (NO16968) tolerated and is currently in phase II development for
is due to report in 2009, and data from a phase IV sarcoma, non-small cell lung cancer, and breast
adjuvant study in patients with gastric cancer are cancer.
expected in 2010.
R7159(GA101), a fully humanised, type II, glyco-
Pertuzumab(R1273), currently being studied in com- engineered third-generation anti-CD20 monoclonal
bination with Herceptin and standard chemotherapy antibody developed by GlycArt and Roche, is being
in HER2-positive breast cancer, entered phase III co-developed with Chugai, Genentech and Biogen
development in 2008. Pertuzumab inhibits the pairing Idec for the treatment of CD20-positive hemato-
of HER2 with other HER receptors, a key mechanism logical malignancies, including CLL and NHL.
of tumour growth. CLEOPATRA, a phase III study R7159targets the same B cell protein (CD20) as
evaluating the addition of pertuzumab to Herceptin MabThera/Rituxan and has been engineered to
and chemotherapy in first-line treatment of patients increase both direct andindirect tumour cell death,
with advanced disease, commenced in the first quar- thereby enhancing efficacy. In phase I studies R7159
ter of 2008. In addition, NEOSPHERE, a phase II trial has shown good tolerability and very encouraging
investigating neoadjuvant (presurgical) treatment with clinical activity inpatients with no other treatment
pertuzumab, started in the first half of the year. Data options who have previously received MabThera/
from a phase II trial (17929) presented at ASCO 2008 Rituxan. Phase II development in NHL commenced
showed that half of the patients with advanced HER2- inDecember.
positive breast cancer whose disease had progressed
during previous treatment with a regimen including R7204is a novel inhibitor of B-Raf kinase being
Herceptin benefited from a combination of Herceptin co-developed by Plexxikon and Roche. Currently in
and pertuzumab. phaseI testing, R7204 selectively targets the product
www.global-reports.com49
Roche currently has compounds targeting
several mechanisms of action in development
for type 2 diabetes.
of themutant B-RafV600Egene, an abnormality that has was discontinued due to the negative results of
been shown to drive certain cancers. Themutation atrialwith MabThera/Rituxan in a similar patient
occurs only in tumour cells. It is found inmany thyroid population.
cancers and malignant melanomas and in a small
proportion of colorectal cancers. Adiagnostic test Promising early-stage projects in the inflamma-
isbeing developed in collaboration with Roche tion/autoimmune area are proceeding on track,
Molecular Diagnostics to select patientswho carry includingR667, currently in phase II clinical testing
the B-RafV600Emutation and aretherefore most likely for emphysema, and R4930(huMAb anti-OX40L),
to respond to treatment withR7204. anovel biologic being jointly developed by Roche and
Genentech as a treatment for asthma (currently in
R7334(TB-403), a human monoclonal antibody phase I). In November Actelion and Roche agreed to
targeting placental growth factor (PlGF), entered the progress R3477, a selective S1P1 receptor agonist,
Roche portfolio in June 2008 via a licensing agree- into phase II clinical development for autoimmune
ment with ThromboGenics and BioInvent. Malignancy diseases.
of solid tumours is dependent on new blood ves-
selformation, a process known as angiogenesis, Metabolic and cardiovascular diseases | Many
andPlGF is an important growth factor in this process. people with elevated levels of certain blood
It is anticipated that R7334 will be used in combina- fatsremain at risk of heart attack or stroke despite
tion with other antiangiogenic treatments such as treatment with currently available medications.
Avastin. R7334 is currently being tested in a phase I Thisrisk may be reduced by new treatments that
study in patients with solid tumours. increase high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDLC),
sometimes called ‘good’ cholesterol. Dalcetrapib
Inflammation and autoimmune diseases | In the (R1658, JTT-705, licensed from Japan Tobacco)
second quarter of 2008 Roche and Genentech increases levels of HDLC by blocking the action of the
decided to discontinue development of MabThera/ cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP), thereby
Rituxanin systemic lupus erythematosus after a potentially reducing the risk of cardiovascular
phase II/III study failed to reach its primary endpoint. diseaseand deathin high-risk patients. A phase III
Phase III development of the drug for lupus nephritis morbidity and mortality study of dalcetrapib
is continuing as planned, and the results of a clinical (dal-OUTCOMES) started in April, and patient
trial (LUNAR) investigating the benefits of adding recruitment is proceeding well. Phase II data
MabThera/Rituxan to CellCept are expected in the presented at the American Congress of Cardiology
first half of 2009. inMarch show thatdalcetrapib is well tolerated
andhas a good general and cardiovascular safety
Ocrelizumab(R1594) is a humanised anti-CD20 profile when given alone or in combination with
monoclonal antibody being developed by Roche, statins. Additional datapresented atthe American
Genentech and Chugai for the treatment of auto- Heart Association meeting in November showed
immune diseases. Like MabThera/Rituxan, ocrelizu- thatdalcetrapib hasaunique chemical structure and,
mab also targets B cells. As a humanised antibody, unlike certain other CETP inhibitors, does not
ithas the potential to be less immunogenic, activateenzymes or genes involved in blood-pressure
bettertolerated and more convenient to administer. regulation.
An extensive phase III programme involving more
than 2,700 patients with rheumatoid arthritis is Diabetes | Recognised as a global epidemic
ongoing, and recruitment for a phase III trial in lupus by the World Health Organization. The Interna-
nephritis is continuing as planned. In May a phase III tional Diabetes Federation estimates that some
trial of ocrelizumab in systemic lupus erythematosus 380 million people worldwide will have diabetes50
Roche Business Report 2008 Pharmaceuticals
by 2025. According to the WHO, type 2 (adult withInterMune) in phase I clinical development.
onset) diabetes accounts for around 90% of all Bothofthese oral agents are being investigated
cases. incombination with Pegasys and Copegus. In
addition, Roche has started a clinical trialwith com-
Taspoglutide(R1583, BIM 51077, licensed from bined R7128and R7227, an important first step
Ipsen), the first once-weekly human glucagon-like inevaluating the therapeutic potential ofanall-oral,
peptide-1 (GLP-1) hormone analogue, is being interferon-free combination treatment for hepa-
developed by Roche for type 2 diabetes. The struc- titis C.
ture of the molecule is similar to that of the natural
human hormone. In clinical trials to date, taspo- Central nervous system | Evidence is evolving
glutidewas generally well tolerated and significantly onthe role of B cells in the multiple sclerosis disease
improved glucose control and weight loss after only process. Based on promising phase II data with
eight weeks of treatment. Roche initiated an extensive MabThera/Rituxanin relapsing-remitting multiple
phase III clinical development programme with taspo- sclerosis (RRMS), Roche and its partners are
glutide in July. In late 2008 the FDA issued new conducting a phase II dose-finding study with
guidance on the clinical testing of new treatments thenext-generation anti-CD20 antibody ocrelizu-
fortype 2 diabetes. Roche is reviewing the taspo- mabinthis disease. In April a phase II/III study
glutide programme to comply with these recommen- (OLYMPUS) ofMabThera/Rituxan in primary pro-
dations. gressive MS (PPMS), led by Genentech, didnot
meetits primary endpoint. However, as secondary
Roche currently has compounds targeting several analysis suggests that the medicine maybenefit
mechanisms of action in development for use in certain patient subgroups, Genentech and Roche
patients with type 2 diabetes. One of these, alegli- areevaluating possibilities for further development
tazar(R1439), is a dual PPAR agonist that has ofanti-CD20 therapy in progressive MS.
demonstrated effects on blood fats, blood pressure
and blood glucose. Phase II clinical testing is nearing R1678, an inhibitor of glycine transporter type 1
completion, and Roche expects to make a decision (GlyT1), is in phase II development for the treatment
inthe first half of 2009 on phase III development of schizophrenia. Preclinical and clinical evidence
ofthe compound. Phase II development of R1579, suggests that this novel mechanism of action may
adipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPP-IV) inhibitor, improve negative symptoms of schizophrenia, an
was completed in the second half of the year. areaof high unmet medical need not adequately
Whiledemonstrating adequate glucose reduction addressed by current treatments. R3487, a nicotinic
andexcellent tolerability, the compound did not alpha7 receptor agonist, is being developed to treat
satisfy Roche’s internal clinical differentiation criteria cognitive impairment in schizophrenia and Alzheimer’s
for transition into phase III testing, and Roche has disease. R3487 is expected to provide significant
therefore decided to outlicense it. improvement in memory and ability to perform
activities of daily living compared with current treat-
Virology | Development of R1626, a polymerase ments. First results from a phase II trial investigat-
inhibitor being investigated as a treatment for ingthe benefit of R3487 in cognitive impairment
hepatitis C infection, was terminated during the year associated with schizophrenia are expected
due to new and unexpected safety findings from towardsthe middle of 2009. A phase IIb study in
aphase IIb study. Roche’s pipeline of direct antiviral Alzheimer’s disease isscheduled to start in the
agents for HCV remains robust, with the polymerase firstpart of 2009.
inhibitor R7128 (collaboration with Pharmasset)
andthe protease inhibitor R7227 (collaboration
www.global-reports.com51
The division currently operates six major
biotech manufacturing facilities worldwide.
Manufacturing infrastructure inMannheim and Nutley will be transferred to other
Biotech manufacturing | Uses cell-culture tech- sites. In addition, the Cenexi galenical manufacturing
nology to produce bulk quantities of genetically site in Fontenay sous Bois (France) was sold.
engineered active pharmaceutical ingredients Inadditionto these and other steps to strengthen
such as monoclonal antibodies and other andfocus its manufacturing network, Roche further
therapeutic proteins while meeting strict quality improved its supply chain management systems to
requirements. The manufacturing process — ensure continuous worldwide supply of its innovative
comprising cell growth, fermentation, purification medicines.
and filling operations — takes place under highly
controlled conditions. The facilities are subject
to rigorous regulatory inspection and approval
procedures. The Roche Group’s Pharmaceuticals
Division currently operates six major biotech
manufacturing facilities worldwide, including
those at Roche Phamaceuticals’ Basel and
Penzberg sites, Genentech’s plants in South San
Francisco, Vacaville and Oceanside, and Chugai’s
Utsunomiya facility.
Roche’s new biotech production facilities in Penzberg
(Germany) and Basel (Switzerland) are now fully
operational. Roche received European Medicines
Agency (EMEA) approval in May for the production
of trastuzumab (the active ingredient of Herceptin)
atthe Penzberg facility for European markets, just
under four years after the start of construction work.
Roche filed for approval of production of beva-
cizumab(the active ingredient of Avastin) in the
newBasel facility with the EMEA in December.
In 2008 the Group made further progress with impor-
tant infrastructure projects. Construction of a new tech-
nical research and development building at Roche’s
Basel site commenced in October. In addition, new
sterile vial filling capacity is being installed at Roche’s
Kaiseraugst (Switzerland), Genentech’s Hillsboro
(Oregon, USA) and Chugai’s Utsunomiya (Japan)
sites.
In 2008 Roche Pharmaceuticals continued to optimise
its global manufacturing network. During the year
thedecision was taken to close manufacturing in
Nutley (New Jersey, USA) by 2010 and to phase out
chemical manufacturing in Mannheim (Germany)
overthree years. Products currently manufacturedDiagnostics |
Diagnostics are an
increasingly critical component of medical
care and central to Roche’s strategy.
In 2008 the Diagnostics Division launched
a wide array of new products for clinical
use and research. And it achieved above-
market sales growth. The division is also
using its know-how to support pharma-
ceuticals R&D at Roche – for example,
by helping in the search for relevant
biomarkers. These could accelerate the
development of important drugs and in
some cases might yield companion
diagnostics enabling more targeted
therapy.
www.global-reports.com53
Diagnostics Division in brief
Sales | in millions of CHF Operating profit | in millions of CHF Number of employees
25,404
9,350 9,656
8,747 23,062
1,648
1,422 20,712
1,187
06 07 08 06 07 08 06 07 08
Key figures
% change % change in
In millions of CHF in CHF local currencies % of sales
Sales 9,656 3 10 100
— Professional Diagnostics 4,422 3 9 46
— Diabetes Care 2,971 –8 –1 31
— Molecular Diagnostics 1,122 –2 5 11
— Applied Science 765 11 19 8
— Tissue Diagnostics 376 n/a n/a 4
Operating profit 1,187 –28 –22 12.3
Operating free cash flow 600 –44 –33 6.2
Research and development 941 20 26 9.7
Diagnostics Executive Committee | 31 December 2008
Jürgen Schwiezer CEO Division Roche Diagnostics
Per-Olof Attinger1 Ventana Integration
Manfred Baier Applied Science
Roland Diggelmann Asia—Pacific
Dirk H. Ehlers Professional Diagnostics
Christopher Gleeson2 Tissue Diagnostics
Christian Hebich Finance and Services
Michael Heuer EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) and Latin America
Alexander Keller Global Platforms and Support
Frank Lennartz Human Resources
Daniel O’Day Molecular Diagnostics
Frank Pitzer3 Regulatory Affairs and Quality Management
Claus-Joerg Ruetsch3 Legal
Michael Tillmann North America
Robert Yates Business Development
1 Tenure ended 31 December 2008.
2 Since 1 January 2009: Hany Massarany.
3 Associate member, since 1 January 2009.54
Roche Business Report 2008 Diagnostics
Diagnostics Division Sales by region
Roche’s Diagnostics Roche’s Diagnostics Division is a leading supplier
Division remains the ofin vitrodiagnostics (IVDs). Its products are used Europe/Middle 54% (+7%)
world’s number one totest body fluids and tissue samples to obtain infor- East/Africa
IVD company. In 2008
mation for the purpose of preventing, diagnosing, Japan 5% (+7%)
its sales growth out-
treating and monitoring disease. Approximately 70% Asia—Pacific 9% (+18%)
paced the market and
of all medical decisions are guided by the results of
was broad based,
extending across all such tests, although they account for only about 3% Latin America 6% (+18%)
major regions and of healthcare spending. The division’s leadership
across four of five extends across the whole IVD spectrum, from cen- North America 26% (+14%)
divisional business
tralised laboratory testing and point-of-care diag- Other 0% (–18%)
areas.
nostics to molecular diagnostics and diabetes self-
Italics = growth rates
management. In addition, it supplies cutting-edge
research tools to life scientists pursuing tomorrow’s
medical advances.
posted rising sales, with the biggest contributions
Research and development facilities in Europe and togrowth coming from the Professional Diagnostics,
theUnited States are augmented by an expanding Applied Science and Tissue Diagnostics units. Within
network of alliances and partnerships affording broad these businesses, immunoassay systems, DNA
access to key new technologies. Roche uses these sequencing products and advanced staining remained
capabilities to develop products of high medical value the major growth drivers, respectively. Roche Dia-
to patients and physicians and platforms that help betes Care posted a modest sales decline overall in
laboratories and other testing sites operate more ahighly competitive market, but achieved strong
efficiently and productively. growth with its new products. Roche Molecular
Diagnostics’ growth continued to be driven by sales
of automated real-time PCR virology and blood
Results screening systems. Roche Tissue Diagnostics
(Ventana), the US-based leader in automated tissue
In 2008 Roche’s Diagnostics Division recorded sales staining acquired in February, posted sales of
of 9.7 billion Swiss francs, an increase of 10% in local 376million Swiss francs in the 11 months to
currencies (3% in Swiss francs; 15% in US dollars) 31December 2008, accounting for 4% of the
over the previous year.1Once again, this was faster division’s full-year sales.
than global IVD market growth, which is estimated
atbetween 5% and 6%. Despite recent sector The division continues to invest heavily in innova-
consolidation, the division maintained its leading tion.In 2008 research and development (R&D)
market position. costsincreased 26% to 941 million Swiss francs,
reflecting investments in the sequencing business,
Divisional sales continued to grow ahead of or in new immunoassays, molecular diagnostic tests
linewith the market in all regions, with double-digit andplatforms for infectious diseases and cancer,
gains in North America (including the positive impact newproducts for diabetes care, advanced
of the Ventana acquisition), Asia—Pacific and Latin stainingsystems and laboratory information man-
America and strong mid-single-digit growth in the agement solutions. These areas will continue to
EMEA region (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and
Japan. Four of the five divisional business areas 1 Unless otherwise stated, all growth rates are in local currencies.
www.global-reports.com55
Divisional R&D spending reached nearly
10% of sales. New technologies and new tests
were major focus areas of investment.
beR&D priorities in 2009. R&Dspending as a Latin America showed strong double-digit growth;
percentage ofsales increased to9.7%, up from 8.4% gains in other regions were in the high single-digit
in 2007. range.
Operating profit in the Diagnostics Division decreased In December Roche completed its acquisition of
22% to 1,187 million Swiss francs in 2008, and the German-based Swisslab GmbH, a leading provider
operating margin decreased 5.3 percentage points oflaboratory information systems (LIS) and related
to12.3%. More than half of the margin decline services. The acquisition complements Roche’s exist-
resulted from the impact of recent acquisitions, ing LIS portfolio and significantly strengthens its
including amortisation of acquired intangible assets position as a supplier of IT solutions for laboratory
and investments to develop the acquired businesses. automation and data management in large laboratory
The rest was mainly due to strong competition organisations.
intheUS diabetes care market and portfolio mix
effects. Serum Work Area | Sales of Serum Work Area
solutions (clinical chemistry and immunoassay
For more information on divisional operating results, systems), Professional Diagnostics’ largest business
see p.14 of the Finance Report (Part 2 of this Annual segment, grew significantly faster than the market,
Report). For more information on product launches in increasing 10%, compared with estimated market
2008 and launches planned for 2009, see the tables growth of 5%. Immunoassay sales (instruments and
on the inside back cover. tests) were up 19% for the year. 2008 was the eighth
consecutive year of double-digit sales growth for
Roche’s immunoassay portfolio. New placements of
Business areas cobas 6000 instruments helped drive growth, as did
strong uptake of the anti-HCV assay (diagnosis
Professional Diagnostics — new tests help ofhepatitis C virus infection) launched in the EMEA
fuel eighth year of double-digit immunoassay region and other markets in the first half of 2008.
sales growth TheElecsys cardiac assays for NT proBNP and
Roche Professional Diagnostics supplies instrument troponin T also remained major growth drivers. Clini-
systems, tests, software, workflow automation and cal chemistry sales advanced 3% amid continuing
services that help clinical laboratories deliver accurate price erosion in the market.
diagnostic results more quickly, efficiently and cost-
effectively. It is also a leader in the growing market Roche continues to be the leading supplier of clinical
fordecentralised testing products to support clinical chemistry and immunoassay systems in all markets
decision-making close to the patient, in doctors’ except the United States, with a global market share
offices, intensive care units and other primary and of approximately 19%.
specialty care settings. A dedicated IT group
developslaboratory information, workflow and Demand for the cobas 6000 analyser series for
datamanagement solutions as well as connectivity medium-workload laboratories (up to about 5,000
components tomaximise testing efficiency and tests per day) remains very strong. Introduced in
support interpretation of increasingly complex 2006, it was the first of several modular Roche
testresults. platforms designed to integrate and improve the
efficiency of immunoassay and clinical chemistry
In 2008 Roche Professional Diagnostics’ sales rose testing in different-sized laboratories. Two new
9% to 4,422 million Swiss francs, compared with esti- configurations were launched in 2008, completing
mated market growth of 6%. Sales in Asia—Pacific and theseries and increasing its competitiveness. The56
Roche Business Report 2008 Diagnostics
In 2008 Roche rolled rollout of the smaller cobas 4000 series of instru- low-price competitors. Full commercial launch of the
out a dozen Serum ments for small- tomedium-workload laboratories cobas u 411, a stand-alone urinalysis system for small-
Work Area tests in the continued with the successful July launch of the to medium-workload laboratories, was successfully
EU for important clin-
cobas c 311 clinical chemistry analyser in all markets completed outside the United States. Uptake of this
ical uses — from diag-
except the United States. A US launch is scheduled system has significantly exceeded expectations.
nosing kidney failure
for the first quarter of 2009.
to detecting hepatitis.
Roughly half of these Decentralised testing | Sales of decentralised
tests were also Roche Professional Diagnostics supplies one of the testing products rose 10%, helped by the continued
launched in the US. most comprehensive menus of clinical chemistry and trend towards diagnostic testing at the point of care.
Further test launches
immunoassay tests in the industry. Twelve new fully
will follow in both
automated Serum Work Area assays launched in Point-of-care cardiac assays posted strong double-
markets in 2009.
late2007 or 2008 were rolled out during the year digit growth, fuelled by increased uptake of the
across Europe and in other markets. Major new Roche Cardiac proBNP assay (diagnosis and assess-
assays included the Elecsys anti-TSH receptor anti- ment of heart failure) and the cobas h 232 portable
body assay for the diagnosis of Graves’ disease (the cardiac testing device, launched in 2007. The cobas
most common autoimmune thyroid disease), the h232 provides highly reliable results in just eight
Elecsys anti-CCP antibody assay, a highly specific toten minutes and has a test menu that includes most
testto aid the diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis, and of the major blood markers for heart attack, heart
the Roche Cystatin C clinical chemistry test for early failure and assessing a patient’s risk of future cardio-
detection of impaired kidney function. In the fourth vascular events.
quarter Roche Professional Diagnostics launched
anti-CMV IgG and anti-CMV IgM immunoassays for Overall sales of ambulatory care/monitoring solutions
the diagnosis of cytomegalovirus infection. Almost showed solid double-digit growth. Coagulation moni-
half of the assays rolled out in Europe during the toring (instruments and test strips) continued to post
yearwere also launched in the United States. strong double-digit sales increases, driven mainly
bythe CoaguChek XS monitor for professional use
Coagulation, hematology and urinalysis | Roche’s and patient self-testing. Accutrend Plus, a handheld
laboratory coagulation portfolio generated solid device that measures important indicators of cardiac
6%growth in 2008, with placements of all instru- risk (cholesterol, glucose, triglycerides) and tissue
menttypes up significantly from the previous year. hypoxia (lactate) contributed to high single-digit sales
Sales grew particularly strongly in Europe and Latin growth across several ambulatory care segments.
America. High-volume analysers and the Coasys Launched in its first markets in November 2007, this
PlusC, a fully automated low-volume coagulation device for professional and self-testing environments
analyser launched in the third quarter of 2008, is now available worldwide.
wereimportant growth drivers.
Uptake of the Accu-Chek Inform II, the first and only
Hematology sales also showed solid mid-single-digit wireless system for hospital glucose testing and moni-
growth, with placements of new instruments up more toring, particularly in intensive care settings, has been
strongly than expected. Growth was seen across all very strong since the device was launched outside the
regions covered by Roche’s exclusive distribution United States in June. US approval and launch are
agreement with Sysmex Corporation (Japan). Growth expected in March 2009.
continued to be driven mainly by the Sysmex XS
1000i, one of a line of compact, fully automated analy- Research and development | Roche Professional
sers launched in 2007. In urinalysis, Roche maintained Diagnostics’ single most important launch in 2009 will
its number two position despite strong pressure from be the cobas 8000 series of modular Serum Work
www.global-reports.com57
Roche’s point-of-care tests for heart failure
and heart attack provide reliable results
within minutes.
Area instruments for high-volume laboratories. Diabetes Care — new products deliver The cobas 8000 series
Thisaddition to the cobas instrument family will be strong growth of instruments will
one ofthe fastest integrated systems available and Diabetes results from the body’s inability to regulate offer large labs speed,
efficiency and
offer awider choice of configurations than any other blood glucose and often leads to serious complica-
unmatched flexibility,
high-workload solution currently on the market. tions, including heart and kidney disease, stroke and
and make Roche
Itreplaces existing Roche systems and is expected blindness. Worldwide diabetes affects over 250 million
aneven stronger
tosignificantly enhance Roche’s competitiveness people and is a leading cause of premature death. competitor in the
inboth immunoassays and clinical chemistry. By2025 the number of people with the disease is immunoassay and
Launches inmost key markets outside the United expected to reach 380 million. While there is no cure, clinical chemistry
segments. This is one
States areplanned for 2009, with a US launch people with diabetes can take steps to manage their
of a number of new
expected in2010. disease and lower the risk of complications.
diagnostic systems
that will debut in
Other significant new systems and system enhance- Roche Diabetes Care’s products are designed to 2009.
ments reaching the market in 2009 will include the make living with diabetes easier. The portfolio covers
cobas p 501 and cobas p 701 post-analytical sample the entire diabetes self-management spectrum, from
storage and retrieval modules, which will be launched glucose monitoring to insulin delivery. Monitoring
globally, and the cobas b 123 multiparameter blood systems with integrated lancets and test strips and
gas analyser for use in critical care settings, sched- software for storing and analysing data are an
uled for launch this year in Europe, Japan and the important part of Roche’s diabetes care portfolio
United States. The cobas e-LabPerformance portal because they improve blood glucose control for many
forbenchmarking Serum Work Area results will be users, in addition to offering greater convenience.
rolled out in the first quarter of 2009.
Roche Diabetes Care remains the global market
Roche also continues to expand its immunoassay and leader. In 2008 its sales reached 2,971 million Swiss
clinical chemistry menus, with a number of important francs, a 1% decline from 2007. Single-digit sales
new tests scheduled for launch in 2009 (see table increases in the EMEA region, Asia—Pacific and
‘Major product launches scheduled for 2009’ on the Japan and a double-digit increase in Latin America
inside back cover). did not quite offset lower US sales. Following a strong
second quarter, US sales fell in the third and fourth
Roche Professional Diagnostics and the Pharma- quarters as a result of an accelerating decline in sales
ceuticals Division are working closely in a number of older monitoring products, strong competition and
ofareas to support the Group’s strategic focus on continued pricing pressures. The older products that
personalised healthcare. These include joint market- are being phased out of the portfolio now account
ing activities for the use of Elecsys bone markers forless than 30% of Roche Diabetes Care’s sales.
tomonitor osteoporosis in patients receiving
Bonviva/Boniva. They also include joint exploratory Blood glucose monitoring | The new generation
biomarker programmes using an innovative multiplex ofAccu-Chek blood glucose monitoring systems
technology developed by Roche. These programmes delivered robust growth. Accu-Chek Aviva, Roche
are supporting late-stage drug development projects Diabetes Care’s largest-selling glucose monitoring
in rheumatoid arthritis and oncology. Additionally, system, posted a strong double-digit sales increase
synergies between the two divisions are being utilised over 2007. The Accu-Chek Performa, launched in
to develop new high-medical-value diagnostics for mostmarkets during the first half of 2008, has
these two important disease areas. experienced a strong uptake; the global rollout con-
tinued with the December launch in China and
isnowalmost complete.58
Roche Business Report 2008 Diagnostics
The top-selling The global rollout of the Accu-Chek Compact Plus control. Premarketing activities have already started to
Accu-Chek Aviva is system was completed in November. Combined sales secure the current customer base in preparation for
delivering strong of Accu-Chek Compact Plus test strips grew at the launch of this new system.
growth. Itwill be
adouble-digit rate in countries where this device
joined in 2009 by
waslaunched in late 2007. Research and development | Research and devel-
fournew meters
opment spending in 2008 went to support the new
targeted at different
market segments In the coming months Roche Diabetes Care will be product launches planned for 2009 and to develop
asRoche continues launching four important new diabetes monitoring future technology platforms. Near-term investment
torevitalise its glucose products. The Accu-Chek Aviva Nano and Accu-Chek focused particularly on the new Accu-Chek Mobile
monitoring portfolio.
Performa Nano blood glucose meters will be available integrated blood glucose monitoring system and
in the European Union, their first market, starting updated Accu-Chek Aviva and Accu-Chek Performa
inthe first quarter of 2009. Offering the same func- platforms, all slated for launch in the first quarter of
tionality as the Accu-Chek Aviva and Accu-Chek 2009. Roche Diabetes Care stepped up investment
Performa systems in a sleeker, more discreet design, incommercially developing its proprietary continuous
the Nano meters are aimed especially at young high- glucose monitoring technology. This is a long-term
frequency testers. The new Accu-Chek Active, project aimed at producing a small, easy-to-use
targeted particularly at emerging markets, will also continuous monitoring system suitable for a broad
begin rolling out in the first quarter of 2009. spectrum of customers. Roche continues to investi-
gate the value of blood glucose monitoring for dia-
The fourth new offering, Accu-Chek Mobile, is expec- betes management, particularly in type 2 diabetes,
ted to strengthen Roche Diabetes Care’s lead in the inclinical trials. Activities aimed at integrating glucose
market segment for integrated blood glucose moni- monitoring and data management with insulin delivery
toring systems. Accu-Chek Mobile offers complete are ongoing and may one day result in systems that
integration of testing and lancing in a single device closely mimic the way the healthy pancreas regulates
and features a unique strip-free technology that blood glucose levels.
employs a continuous tape of 50 tests instead of
single-use test strips. Molecular Diagnostics — a year of major assay
launches
In the first quarter of 2009 Roche Diabetes Care Roche Molecular Diagnostics develops and commer-
willstart updating its glucose monitoring systems to cialises innovative diagnostic and blood screening
a new testing method that avoids the risk of maltose platforms and tests based on Roche’s proprietary
interference. This will offer additional safety to certain real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) techno-
dialysis patients who also monitor their blood glucose. logy. Because these products directly detect the
genetic material (DNA or RNA) of infecting patho-
Insulin delivery | The innovative Accu-Chek Combo gens such as HIV or hepatitis viruses, they can iden-
system, scheduled for launch in the European Union tify and quantify infections earlier and more specifi-
in the first quarter of 2009, will be a strong addition cally than tests based on the body’s immune response
to Roche Diabetes Care’s insulin delivery portfolio. to infection. As a result, patients can be treated and
Accu-Chek Combo combines an Accu-Chek Spirit monitored with greater precision, and the risk of their
insulin pump and a high-end glucose meter with infecting others through blood or organ donations is
remote-control and bolus calculator capabilities. reduced. In addition to tests for HIV and hepatitis,
Users can deliver a bolus insulin dose anytime, Roche’s molecular diagnostics portfolio includes tests
anywhere, without having to touch their pump. The for other infectious diseases and tests to identify
Accu-Chek Combo also offers small dose increments patients likely to respond to particular cancer
for optimised insulin dosing and fine-tuned glucose therapies.
www.global-reports.com59
The cobas TaqScreen MPX Test is the most
comprehensive blood screening test of its kind.
Roche Molecular Diagnostics remains the industry the European Union. The new HIV test has a unique Since October
leader, with a 33% share of a fast-growing but dual-target design enabling simultaneous detection Roche’s full suite of
increasingly competitive market. Sales totalled oftwo separate regions of the HIV genome. This automated viral load
tests (HIV, hepatitis C,
1,122million Swiss francs in 2008, an increase of provides greater test reliability when viral mutations
hepatitis B) has been
5%from ayear earlier. Sales showed double-digit are present. In addition, both new tests have even
available to health
growth in Asia—Pacific and Latin America, with broader dynamic ranges (ability to quantify very low
professionals in the
single-digit growth in North America and the EMEA and very high viral loads) than earlier-generation US. Uptake of the
region. tests. This is a critical advantage, since very high or hepatitis tests, both
very low levels of virus can indicate the need for more launched in the US
inthe second half of
Virology | Virology testing, Roche Molecular Diag- or less aggressive therapy. Regulatory filings for the
2008, has been very
nostics’ largest segment by sales, remained the most new CAP/CTM HIV-1 and HBV tests are currently
strong. Second-
significant contributor to growth. Virology sales grew under review in Japan.
generation versions
4%, led by demand for automated real-time PCR ofthe HIV and hepa-
platforms and tests for HIV-1 (the most common Blood screening | Sales of blood screening prod- titis B tests were
formof the virus that causes AIDS in humans) and ucts, Molecular Diagnostics’ second-largest segment approved and
launched in the EU
hepatitis C and hepatitis B virus (HCV, HBV). Roche by sales, advanced 2% for the year, as additional
inDecember.
Molecular Diagnostics’ virology portfolio includes blood centres in Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin
systems for automated sample preparation and America began routine screening with the multiplex
real-time PCR analysis. The combined Cobas cobas TaqScreen MPX Test on the fully automated
AmpliPrep/Cobas TaqMan (CAP/CTM) system is cobas s 201 platform. The decline seen in this
theonly platform available worldwide that offers segment earlier in the year, which resulted from price
customers fully automated real-time PCR testing pressure and the ongoing effect of accounts lost
forclinical diagnostic use. in2007, is levelling off, and further growth is expected
in2009.
In October the US Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) approved the CAP/CTM HCV Test, which quan- In December the FDA approved the cobas TaqScreen
tifies the amount of hepatitis C virus (viral load) in MPX Test for use on the cobas s 201 system. This test
apatient’s blood. A month earlier, in September, the is the most comprehensive nucleic acid test of its kind
Cobas TaqMan HBV Test became the first hepatitis B available today, offering the unique ability to detect
viral load test to receive FDA approval. This, along HIV-1 groups M and O, HIV-2, HCV and HBV in a
with the fully automated CAP/CTM HIV-1 Test single automated assay. Originally launched in Europe
approved in 2007, completed initial automation of in 2006, the cobas TaqScreen MPX Test has already
Roche’s major virology products in the US market. been widely adopted by and demonstrated excellent
Physicians use these tests to establish baseline levels performance in blood centres worldwide. In Japan the
of infection prior to treatment and to monitor patients’ test has been used since September on the fully inte-
responses to therapy by tracking changes in their grated cobas s 401 system to screen 100% of the
virus levels during treatment. Numerous US labora- Japanese blood supply.
tories have already signed contracts for the HCV and
HBV tests, including one of the nation’s largest Sexually transmitted diseases and oncology | The
reference laboratories, which converted to the Roche Cobas TaqMan CT Test v2.0, for improved detection
HBV test just weeks after it was approved. ofChlamydia trachomatis(CT), was launched for clini-
cal use in Europe, Asia—Pacific and Latin America in
Second-generation versions of the CAP/CTM HIV-1 the second half of 2008. The transition to this new
and HBV tests received CE Mark certification in test, which runs on the automated Cobas TaqMan 48
December, allowing them to be sold for clinical use in real-time PCR analyser, has been completed in the60
Roche Business Report 2008 Diagnostics
majority of the markets where it is available. The continue in 2009. The trial is evaluating the tests’
Cobas TaqMan CT Test v2.0 simultaneously detects performance in detecting high-grade cervical disease
two targets within the Chlamydiacryptic plasmid and in women undergoing routine cervical cancer screen-
genome target DNA. As a result, it is able to detect ing.
infections caused by all known strains of CT, even
ifthere are unexpected changes to the bacterial Development of a test to screen for methicillin-resist-
genome, as in the case of the recently discovered ant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), a form of staph
Swedish variant. Chlamydial infection is one of the infection that is difficult to treat and which can be
most commonly reported sexually transmitted deadly, is also on track for a launch in 2009. Reducing
diseases. If left untreated, it can lead to serious the spread of MRSA is a major public health concern
complications such as pelvic inflammatory disease worldwide.
and infertility in women.
The business area continues to work closely with
The Amplicor and Linear Array tests for detecting Roche’s Pharmaceuticals Division and others on com-
andidentifying low- and high-risk strains of human panion tests for new therapeutics. A microarray-
papillomavirus (HPV) showed double-digit growth. based test to identify mutations in the p53 tumour
Persistent infection with certain high-risk strains of suppressor gene, for example, is being explored as a
HPV can progress to pre-cancerous conditions or companion diagnostic for a new class of anticancer
cervical cancer. The Amplicor HPV test was approved drugs called Nutlins, currently in early development at
and launched in Japan in September. Roche. Work is also progressing on a real-time PCR
test to screen for a common cancer-causing mutation
In June Roche signed an exclusive deal with DxS of the B-Raf kinase gene. The B-Raf test may aid the
Ltd.(UK) for distribution of the TheraScreen K-RAS development of a targeted cancer therapy which
Mutation Test, which Roche began distributing in Roche and Plexxikon Inc. are working on and which
December, and the TheraScreen EGFR 29 Mutation selectively inhibits this mutated form of the B-Raf gene.
Test. Both tests are real-time PCR assays and have
CEMark certification. Used in conjunction with other Applied Science — sequencing, quantitative PCR
clinically relevant information, K-RAS and EGFR muta- and arrays drive very strong growth in genomics
tion testing can aid doctors in determining patients’ The life sciences encompass disciplines ranging from
suitability for certain cancer therapies. biology and biotechnology to medical research into
major disease areas like cancer and virology. Roche
Research and development | Roche Molecular Diag- Applied Science supplies a broad and growing array
nostics is pursuing new tests and automation platforms of instruments and highly specific reagents and test
to improve the diagnosis and treatment ofdisease, with kits for use in this diverse research market. Its prod-
a focus on infectious disease and oncology. uct portfolio and capabilities are especially strong
ingenomics and proteomics, sciences that are
Development of the cobas 4800 system, a new plat- transforming our understanding and the treatment
form combining fully automated DNA extraction and ofdisease.
real-time PCR amplification and detection, is on track,
with a European launch planned for 2009. It will ini- In 2008 Roche Applied Science recorded sales of
tially be offered with assays for HPV, Chlamydia 765million Swiss francs. This was an increase of 19%
trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae. for the year, more than three times the estimated
market growth rate (6%). Sales of DNA sequencing
Enrolment for Roche’s clinical trial to support US regi- products, led once again by the ultra-fast Genome
stration of its HPV tests is well under way and will Sequencer FLX (GS FLX), nearly doubled, despite
www.global-reports.com61
The xCELLigence cell analyser could reduce
the need for animal testing in research.
increased pressure from competitors. Roche Applied Cell analysis | In the second half of 2008 Roche New products
Science is the market leader in placements ofnext- Applied Science successfully launched single- and launched worldwide
generation sequencing systems. Products for real- multi-plate versions of the xCELLigence cell analyser, for Roche’s leading-
edge Genome
time quantitative PCR (qPCR) analysis, particularly a system co-developed with ACEA Biosciences, Inc.
Sequencer FLX
theLightCycler 480 instruments and reagents, deliv- The analyser uses a technology that eliminates the
system offer laborato-
ered robust double-digit growth, with strong sales need for labour- and cost-intensive steps like cell
ries greater efficiency
increases in North America and China. Total instru- labelling and cell fixation and measures changes and even better
ment placements roughly doubled in 2008. Microarray incell morphology, cell proliferation and cell death results at lower costs.
systems made a significant contribution tofull-year inreal time. Very importantly, it could significantly
sales; sequential quarterly sales growth for these reduce the use of animal testing in pharmaceutical
products has been steady and strong since Roche research and toxicology, among other areas. Initial
acquired NimbleGen in August 2007. placements have already occurred in all regions.
Biochemical and industrial reagents, which account for Research and development | Efforts at Roche
a major part of Roche Applied Science’s revenues, Applied Science’s research and development facilities
showed moderate growth overall in a market impacted in Penzberg (Germany) and Branford and Madison
by flat government funding for life science research. (both US) remain focused on enhancing the efficiency
and expanding the range of uses of the LightCycler,
Genomics portfolio | In late September Roche Genome Sequencer and NimbleGen microarray tech-
Applied Science launched its GS FLX Titanium series nologies. In 2008 this resulted, for example, in the
of next-generation sequencing products (including launch of a new generation of genome discovery
new reagents and software). Compared with standard arrays (NimbleGen HD2) combining the speed and
GS FLX sequencing, Titanium increases throughput efficiency of a multiplex platform with the ability to
by a factor of five. Roche NimbleGen’s SeqCap deliver high-resolution, high-quality data. Another
(sequence capture) arrays, which help laboratories ongoing priority is to integrate and increase the
totake full advantage of this sequencing capacity, throughput of the LightCycler and MagNA Pure plat-
were introduced in initial markets in March and are forms. Supporting the Roche Group’s strategic focus
now available worldwide. These high-density arrays on personalised healthcare, Roche Applied Science
produce targeted, sequencing-ready samples much and the Pharmaceuticals Division are pursuing proj-
faster and more cost-effectively than conventional ects aimed at discovering and validating biomarkers
methods of sample preparation, thus easing a major which may facilitate drug development or have poten-
bottleneck in genomic research. tial diagnostic applications, particularly in the areas of
oncology and inflammatory disease. In addition,
Other major launches included MagNa Pure 2.0, a potential uses for microarrays and genome sequenc-
redesigned and improved instrument for automated ing are being investigated across all of the Pharma-
qPCR sample preparation, and the first of a new ceuticals Division’s major research areas of interest,
family of pre-plated, ready-to-use qPCR assays called and a similar joint evaluation of the xCELLigence
RealTime ready. The RealTime assays will make the analyser is also under way.
LightCycler systems even more competitive and are
expected to be an important sales driver. The Light- Tissue Diagnostics — strong year-on-year growth
Cycler series was also strengthened by the launch and the launch of two major new systems
ofthe LightCycler 480 II in the first half of 2008. Ventana Medical Systems, now also known as Roche
Thenew LightCycler instrument features enhanced Tissue Diagnostics, is the world’s leading tissue-
analysis software for greater efficiency over a range based cancer diagnostic company. Roche Tissue
ofapplications. Diagnostics develops and manufactures medical62
Roche Business Report 2008 Diagnostics
In 2008 Roche Tissue diagnostic instruments and reagent systems that BenchMark Ultra, a new system that performs
Diagnostics strength- provide leading-edge automation technology for use immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridisation testing
ened its core in the diagnosis and prognosis of cancer and infec- simultaneously on a single continuous and random
advanced staining
tious disease. In addition, the company offers premier access platform was launched in the United States
business with the
workflow solutions designed to improve laboratory and Canada in August and in Europe in November.
launch of the Bench-
testing efficiency, providing automated safeguards to The BenchMark Ultra has 30 individual staining
Mark Ultra, a system
that helps laborato- enhance the quality of patient healthcare worldwide. chambers, each of which can be accessed at any
ries work more effi- Also, its discovery research aids pharmaceutical timewithout interrupting workflow. As a result,
ciently and shortens andbiotech companies to accelerate the identification testturnaround times are reduced significantly, and
the time to diagnosis.
of potential biomarkers and new drug targets. STAT samples (those requiring rush testing) can be
added at any time for expedited patient diagnosis.
Roche Tissue Diagnostics demonstrated a strong The market response to the BenchMark Ultra has
yearof solid revenue and product development per- been very positive, with a significant number of place-
formance since being acquired in February. Commer- ments in 2008 and substantial sales acceleration
cial operations have now been integrated into Roche, expected in2009.
and efforts are well under way to expand the business
intonew markets in Europe, Latin America and Asia— In 2008 Roche Tissue Diagnostics expanded its
Pacific. The business area remains headquartered immunohistochemistry menu with a total of ten new
inthe United States and will continue tooperate as CONFIRM antibodies for various cancers, including
Ventana Medical Systems, Inc. inNorthAmerica. thyroid, lung, prostate and breast cancers and
lymphoma.
Roche’s consolidated full-year results for 2008
include Roche Tissue Diagnostics sales of 376 million Primary staining | US placements of the Symphony
Swiss francs, representing sales from the date of instrument for hematoxylin and eosin staining acceler-
acquisition in February to 31 December 2008. These ated in the second half of 2008, following upgrades
additional sales contributed four percentage points that further enhance system reliability and staining
tothe Diagnostics Division’s local-currency sales interpretation. Symphony’s commercial performance
growth. On a stand-alone basis, Roche Tissue Diag- in the high-volume primary staining market is expec-
nostics’ sales for the entire year reached 369 million ted to improve further in 2009; launches in Europe
US dollars, an increase of 23% in local currencies and Australia are planned for the second and third
(26% in US dollars) over 2007. This was significantly quarters of the year. Overall, sales of primary
faster than the estimated market growth rate of 14%. staininginstruments and reagents were up 27%
Sales increased at above-market rates in North forthe year.
America, EMEA and Asia—Pacific, helped by new
products for advanced and primary staining and Workflow management | Uptake of the Vantage
workflow management. workflow solution launched in the United States in
April 2008 was even stronger than expected, with
Advanced staining | Advanced tissue staining orders well over forecast for 2008. Vantage is a
(immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridisation) complete workflow information management system
remained the business area’s biggest growth driver, for the anatomical pathology laboratory, providing
delivering robust reagent sales and an even stronger tracking capabilities that streamline and integrate lab
increase in instrument sales. Sales of the fully auto- work and information flows for greater productivity
mated BenchMark XT and BenchMark LT instruments and patient safety. The product will be rolled out in
and immunohistochemistry reagents all increased at Europe and Australia starting in the third quarter
high double-digit growth rates. of2009.
www.global-reports.com63
Research and development | Roche Tissue Diag-
nostics has multiple platforms and technologies in
various stages of development that will continue to
advance anatomical pathology through increased test
efficiency and enhanced medical value.
Together with Roche’s Pharmaceuticals Division, the
business area continues to develop exploratory tests
with a view to capturing long-term companion diag-
nostics opportunities for Roche therapies. Notable
projects include the development of dual colour
immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridisation
assays. Such tests are part of a trend in personalised
healthcare towards evaluating more than one analyte
per diagnostic kit. Quantum dot (Qdot) assays
expand multiplexing even further. In oncology, work
isunder way on an automated Qdot assay to detect
protein levels in human tissue samples using mono-
clonal antibodies. Collaboration is also under way on
an enhanced HER-2 test which is expected to be
available outside the United States in the second
quarter of 2009.Corporate Governance |
Roche’s
commitment to all stakeholders is reflected
in its operating businesses’ focus on value
creation, in a management culture that
conforms to modern standards of corporate
governance and in the Group’s policy
of communicating transparently.
Remuneration Report |
Roche’s
success depends on the abilities and
dedication of its people. Recognition of
this forms the basis of our remuneration
policy and system.
www.global-reports.com65
Corporate Governance
Roche complies with all relevant corporate gover- Effective from the same date for this reason, the role
nance requirements, in particular with all applic- and responsibilities of the Independent Lead Director,
ablelaws, the Swiss Stock Exchange (SIX Swiss a position held by Bruno Gehrig, were incorporated
Exchange) directives (including the commentaries into the role of the Chairman of the Board with part
thereto) and the Swiss Code of Best Practice for ofthe Independent Lead Director’s remit to be
Corporate Governance promulgated by the Swiss reassigned to the Vice-Chairmen Bruno Gehrig and
business federation economiesuisse. The company’s André Hoffmann.
internal governance framework, particularly its
Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, embodies all At its organising meeting immediately following the
theprinciples needed to ensure that the company’s 2008 AGM, the Board of Directors has approved its
businesses are managed and supervised in a manner committees’ structure and its committee memberships
consistent with good corporate governance, includ- as shown on page 67.
ingthe necessary checks and balances.1
At the 2009 AGM on 10 March 2009, the Board of
Our printed Annual Report contains selected links Directors will nominate John Bell, André Hoffmann
tothe Roche website (www.roche.com). Readers are and Franz B. Humer for re-election to the Board.
thus provided not only with a ‘snapshot’ of our com-
pany at the reporting date but are also directed to
sources which they can consult at any time for up- Corporate Executive
to-date information about corporate governance at
Committee
Roche. Whereas each annual report covers a single
financial year ending 31 December, our website con-
tains information of a more permanent nature as well Severin Schwan succeeded Franz B. Humer as CEO
as the latest Roche news. Amendments to our com- ofthe Roche Group at the AGM on 4 March 2008.
pany’s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and
changes in the curricula vitae of the members of the Jürgen Schwiezer was appointed to the Corporate
Board of Directors and the Corporate Executive Com- Executive Committee as CEO of Division Roche Diag-
mittee are published in timely fashion on our website, nostics effective on 1 January 2008.
where they can be accessed by anyone looking for
this information. Gottlieb Keller has been appointed to the position
ofRoche General Counsel effective 5 March 2008.
AsHead of Corporate Services, he continues to serve
Board of Directors on the Corporate Executive Committee. His role as
Secretary to the Board of Directors was expanded
At the 90thAnnual General Meeting (AGM) of toinclude additional tasks within the responsibility
RocheHolding Ltd, on 4 March 2008, shareholders oftheChairman of the Board.
approved a reduction in the Board of Directors’ term
of office from four to three years and re-elected After the 2008 AGM Gottlieb Keller stepped down as
Bruno Gehrig, Lodewijk J.R. de Vink, Walter Frey Head of Corporate Human Resources. Silvia Ayyoubi
andAndreas Oeri as members of the Board of has been appointed to the Corporate Executive Com-
Directors. mittee as Head of Corporate Human Resources effec-
tive 5 March 2008. This is the most senior human
At the 2008 AGM on 4 March 2008, Franz B. Humer resources executive role in the Group.
stepped down as CEO of the Roche Group focusing
on his role as Chairman of the Board of Directors. 1 www.roche.com/corporate_governance66
Roche Business Report 2008 Corporate Governance
Board of Directors per 31 December 2008 (from left):
Dr Franz B. Humer, Prof. Bruno Gehrig, André Hoffmann, Prof. Pius Baschera,
Prof. Sir John Irving Bell, Peter Brabeck-Letmathe, Lodewijk J.R. de Vink,
Dr Andreas Oeri, Dr DeAnne Julius, Walter Frey, Prof. Beatrice Weder di Mauro,
Prof. Horst Teltschik, Dr Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer.
www.global-reports.com67
Board of Directors
Name (year of birth) Term ends First elected
Board of Directors Dr Franz B. Humer (1946) D*, E Chairman 2009 1995
Prof.Bruno Gehrig (1946) C*, D, E Vice-Chairman 2011 2004
André Hoffmann (1958) C, D, E Vice-Chairman 2009 1996
Prof. Pius Baschera (1950) A, E 2011 2007
Prof. Sir John Irving Bell (1952) C, E 2009 2001
Peter Brabeck-Letmathe (1944) E 2010 2000
Lodewijk J.R. de Vink (1945) C, E 2011 2004
Walter Frey (1943) A, B, E 2011 2001
Dr DeAnne Julius (1949) B*, E 2010 2002
Dr Andreas Oeri (1949) A*, E 2011 1996
Dr Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer (1950) B, E 2011 2007
Prof. Horst Teltschik (1940) A, B, E 2010 2002
Prof. Beatrice Weder di Mauro (1965) A, B, E 2010 2006
Secretary to the
Board of Directors Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954)
Honorary Chairman of
the Board of Directors Dr Fritz Gerber (1929)
A Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee.
B Audit Committee.
C Remuneration Committee.
D Presidium/Nomination Committee.
E Non-executive director.
* Committee chairperson. 1 January 200968
Roche Business Report 2008 Corporate Governance
Corporate Executive Committee
Name (year of birth) Position
Corporate Executive Committee Dr Severin Schwan (1967) CEO of the Roche Group
Dr Erich Hunziker (1953) Chief Financial Officer and Deputy Head
ofthe Corporate Executive Committee
William M. Burns (1947) CEO Division Roche Pharmaceuticals
Dr Jürgen Schwiezer (1944) CEO Division Roche Diagnostics
Prof. Jonathan K.C. Knowles (1947) Head Group Research
Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954) General Counsel and Head Corporate Services
Silvia Ayyoubi (1953) Head Human Resources
Enlarged Corporate Executive Burkhard G. Piper (1961) Head Business Area Roche Diabetes Care
Committee Pascal Soriot (1959) Head Commercial Operations Pharmaceuticals Division
Rolf Schläpfer (1956) Head Corporate Communications
Osamu Nagayama (1947) President and CEO Chugai
Secretary to the Corporate
Executive Committee René Kissling (1966)
Statutory Auditors KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler SA (since 2004)
of Roche Holding Ltd Principal auditor: John A. Morris (since 2004)
Group Compliance Officer Dr Urs Jaisli (1956)
www.global-reports.com69
Corporate Executive Committee per 31 December 2008 (from left):
Dr Severin Schwan, William M. Burns, Dr Jürgen Schwiezer, Dr Erich Hunziker,
Silvia Ayyoubi, Prof. Jonathan Knowles, Burkhard G. Piper, Pascal Soriot,
Dr Gottlieb A. Keller, Osamu Nagayama, Rolf D. Schläpfer, René Kissling.70
Roche Business Report 2008 Corporate Governance
Rolf Schläpfer, Head of Corporate Communications, Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Related
resigned from his position at the end of 2008. Effec- parties’, page 113) and Note 6 to the Financial
tive January 1, 2009, Per-Olof Attinger was appointed Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Board
Head of Corporate Communications and Member of andExecutive remuneration’, page 137). No other
the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee, report- relationships exist with theshareholders with
ing to Severin Schwan, CEO of the Roche Group, pooled voting rights.
succeeding Rolf Schläpfer. • There are no cross-shareholdings.
2 Capital structure
Information relating • Information on Roche’s capital structure is pro-
vided in the Finance Report, Notes to the Financial
to Corporate Governance
Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (page 135
and136). Additional details are contained in the
1 Group structure and shareholders Articles of Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd.2
• Roche’s operating businesses are organised into • Changes in equity are detailed in the Finance
two divisions: Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics. Report, Notes to the Financial Statements of Roche
The Pharmaceuticals Division comprises the three Holding Ltd (page 136).
business segments Roche Pharmaceuticals, • The company has a share capital of 160,000,000
Genentech and Chugai. Swiss francs, divided into 160,000,000 fully paid
The Diagnostics Division consists of the following bearer shares with a nominal value of 1 Swiss
four business areas: Applied Science, Diabetes franceach. There are no restrictions on the
Care, Molecular Diagnostics and Professional exercise of the voting rights of these shares.
Diagnostics. Business activities are carried out Upondeposit, shares can be voted without any
through Group subsidiaries and associated compa- restrictions.
nies. Significant subsidiaries and associated com- • There is no authorised or conditional capital.
panies are listed in the Finance Report, Note 34 • In addition, 702,562,700 non-voting equity securi-
tothe Roche Group Consolidated Financial State- ties (NES) have been issued in bearer form. They
ments (‘Subsidiaries and associates’, pages 115 donot form part of the share capital and confer no
to118). voting rights. Each NES confers the same rights
• Major shareholders are listed in the Finance asone share to participate in available earnings
Report, Notes 28 and 33 to the Roche Group Con- andin any liquidation proceeds following repayment
solidated Financial Statements (‘Equity attributable of the share capital. Roche’s NES and the rights
to Roche shareholders’ and ‘Related parties’, pertainingthereto (including the provisions protect-
pages 100 and 113) and in Note 4 to the Financial ing the interests of NES holders) are described in
Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Significant §4 of the Articles of Incorporation of Roche Holding
shareholders’, page 136). Ltd.
• André Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman of the Board • Information on debt instruments which have been
ofDirectors, and Andreas Oeri, Chairman of the issued and on outstanding bonds is provided
Board’s Corporate Governance and Sustainability intheFinance Report, Note 27 to the Roche
Committee, serve in their respective capacities on GroupConsolidated Financial Statements (‘Debt’,
the Board and its Committees as representatives page 97).
ofthe shareholders group with pooled voting • Additional information on employee stock options
rights and receive the remuneration set forth in is provided in the Finance Report, Note 11 to the
theRemuneration Report on page 77 and in the
FinanceReport, Note 33 to the Roche Group 2 www.roche.com/article_of_incorporation
www.global-reports.com71
Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements • The Board of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd is
(‘Employee stock options and other equity com- organised so as to ensure that the Group’s busi-
pensation benefits’, page 74). nesses are conducted responsibly and with a focus
• Roche has issued no options apart from employee on long-term value creation. To this end, the
stock options, Stock-settled Stock Appreciation RocheBoard has delegated certain responsibilities
Rights (S-SARs) and options issued in connection to several committees7. Their composition and
with debt instruments. chairpersons as of 1 January 2009 are described
• Neither the options awarded to employees nor the on page 67. Each committees’ authorities and
debt instruments which have been issued have any responsibilities are defined in detail in the Bylaws
effect on Roche’s share capital. of the Board of Directors.8
• All the committees except the Presidium are
3 Board of Directors and Corporate Executive chaired by independent directors.
Committee • According to the Bylaws of the Board of Direc-
• Information on each member of the Board of torsat the request of any of its members a Board
Directors (including the years in which they were meeting without the Chairman present may be
elected and the years in which their terms end) convened. The Roche Board meets once a year to
and each member of the Corporate Executive assess the Chairman’s performance. This meeting,
Committee is listed on pages 65 to 70. Curricula which is not attended by the Chairman, is chaired
vitae and other information (including information by one of the Vice-Chairmen.
on board memberships) are available on the • The Board of Directors has established a system
Internet.3 ofcontrols which is continuously monitored by the
• The Annual General Meeting elects the members Audit Committee and by the Corporate Governance
of the Board of Directors in staggered elections and Sustainability Committee and consists of the
inwhich each nominee is voted on separately following elements:
(see§18 of the Articles of Incorporation of Roche — Reports on financial and operating risks (risk
Holding Ltd4and the Minutes of the 90thAnnual management system)
General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, held — System of internal controls over financial report-
4March 20085). ing (see page 119 and 122 in the Finance
• Since 4 March 2008 no director is serving in an report)
executive capacity at Roche, and the majority of — Internal audits
seats on the Board of Directors are held by inde- — Compliance Officer
pendent directors. — Safety, Health and Environmental Protection
• Except Franz B. Humer none of the members of the Department
Board of Directors has been a member of Roche’s — Corporate Sustainability Committee
Corporate Executive Committee or served in an — Scientific and Ethics Advisory Group (SEAG),
executive capacity at any Group subsidiary during for issues relating to genetics and genetic
the three financial years preceding the current engineering (established in 1999).
reporting period.
• The internal organisation of the Board of Directors
and the division of authority and responsibilities
3 www.roche.com/board_of_directors and
between the Board and management, the remits www.roche.com/executive_committee
ofthe Board committees and the information and 4 www.roche.com/article_of_incorporation
control mechanisms available to the Board in its 5 www.roche.com/annual_general_meetings
6 www.roche.com/article_of_incorporation
dealings with corporate management are governed
7 www.roche.com/committees
by the Bylaws.6 8 www.roche.com/article_of_incorporation72
Roche Business Report 2008 Corporate Governance
• Each year several black-out periods are imposed Therisk management system is subject to
during which senior employees are prohibited from continuous review, with findings being presented
trading in company stock. The following black-out to the Audit Committee or the full Board10.
periods are in effect for 2009: InternalAuditregularly briefs the Audit Com-
1 January to 4 February mitteewith reference to ongoing audit reports.
1 April to 16 April Members of Internal Audit attend Audit
1 July to 23 July Committeemeetings, asdo external auditors.
1 October to 15 October Forinformation on the external auditors,
Black-out periods can be changed by the Chair- see page 73.
man of the Board of Directors if circumstances • There are no management contracts which fall
warrant. within the scope of Subsection 4.3 of the SIX
• In 2008 the Board of Directors met for five meet- Directive on Information relating to Corporate
ings, each from 3 to 6 hours in length*; once for Governance.
afull-day meeting*; and once for a three-day
official trip* which included a Board of Directors 4 Remuneration, shareholdings and loans
meeting*. The Board committees met as follows All details regarding remuneration, shareholdings
in2008: and loans are set forth in the separate Remunera-
— Presidium of the Board of Directors/Nomination tion Report on pages 75 to 85 and in the Finance
Committee: five meetings (approx. 2 hours Report, Notes 28 and 33 to the Roche Group
each*) Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Equity attribut-
— Audit Committee: three meetings (approx. 3 to able to Roche shareholders’ and ‘Related parties’,
4 hours each*) pages 100 and 113) and are listed in the Notes 6
— Corporate Governance and Sustainability and 7 to the Financial Statements of Roche
Committee: three meetings (approx. 3 hours Holding Ltd (‘Board and Executive remunera-
each*) tion’and ‘Board and Executive shareholdings’,
— Remuneration Committee: two meetings9 pages137 and139).
(approx. 2 to 3 hours each*)
• The Chairman and the Secretary to the Board of 5 Participatory rights of shareholders
Directors are always present at Board meetings, • The participatory rights of shareholders are defined
except when the Board is discussing their per- in Roche’s Articles of Incorporation.11As Roche
formance or remuneration. The other members shares are issued to bearer, there are no restric-
ofthe Corporate Executive Committee are invited tions on admission to Annual General Meetings,
to attend for, and report in person on, those with the exception that shares must be deposited
agenda items concerning them. When the situation within a specified period before the date of a
warrants, members of the Enlarged Corporate meeting and an admittance card must be issued
Executive Committee may also be invited to attend. inthe shareholder’s name, as provided in §12 of
The Board committees invite the Chairman of the the Articles of Incorporation. Any shareholder can
Board and other Corporate Executive Committee
members to deliver reports at committee meetings
9 Remuneration Committee members are not permitted to
and may elect to commission independent expert
contribute to or attend Remuneration Committee meetings
reports and call on the services of consultants. atwhich matters concerning them are deliberated or
decided.
10 Additional information is provided in the Finance Report,
* These figures indicate the actual length of meetings and do not Note32to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements,
include the directors’ extensive pre-meeting preparations and Risk management, page 107).
post-meeting follow-up activities. 11 www.roche.com/article_of_incorporation
www.global-reports.com73
elect to be represented by another shareholder KPMG received the following remuneration for
atan Annual General Meeting. The Articles of Incor- their services as statutory auditors of Roche Hold-
poration contain no restrictions on the exercise of ing Ltd and other Roche companies:
voting rights, and the only quorum requirements
are those stipulated in §16, in conformity with the
2008 2007
Swiss Code of Obligations. (millions of CHF)
• Under §10.2 of the Articles of Incorporation, Auditing services 19.7 21.5
shareholders representing shares with a nominal Audit-related services 4.6 2.1
value of at least 1 million Swiss francs can Tax consultancy services 1.8 1.0
requestthe placement of items on the agenda Total 26.1 24.6
ofan Annual General Meeting. This must be
doneno later than 60 days before the date of The statutory auditors are elected each year by the
themeeting. Annual General Meeting.
6 Change of control and defensive measures Ernst & Young Ltd received the following remuner-
• The Articles of Incorporation contain no provisions ation for their services as the auditors of Genen-
on the mandatory bid rule. Swiss law applies. tech and Chugai:
• There are no change-of-control clauses. Those
components of remuneration based on Roche NES
2008 2007
would be terminated in the event of an acquisition, (millions of CHF)
and vesting period restrictions on pre-existing Genentech and Chugai
awards would be removed, so that all such options audits 5.4 5.0
could be exercised immediately. Other consulting services
provided to Genentech
7 Relationship to statutory auditors and Chugai 1.7 3.1
At the Annual General Meeting of Roche Holding Total 7.1 8.1
Ltd on 4 March 2008, the shareholders voted to
appoint KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler 8 Information policy
SA (KPMG) as statutory auditors (information on • As provided by §33 of the Articles of Incorpo-
how long the auditors and principal auditor have ration,13corporate notices are published in the
been serving in these capacities is provided on Swiss Official Gazette of Commerceand in other
page 68). The statutory auditors participate in Audit daily newspapers designated by the Board of
Committee meetings. They prepare written and oral Directors (Basler Zeitung, Finanz und Wirtschaft,
reports on the results of their audits. The Audit L’Agefi, Le Temps, Neue Zürcher Zeitung).
Committee oversees and assesses the auditors and • Roche reports its half-year and full-year results
makes recommendations to the Board (forinforma- inbusiness reports published in print and online
tion on the responsibilities of the Audit Committee, formats and at media events. In addition, detailed
see Article 8.1 of the Bylaws12). Thestatutory first- and third-quarter sales figures are published
auditors participated in all (three) meetings of the each year in April and October. The most current
Audit Committee in 2008. list of publication dates is available in English
The reports of statutory auditors on the Con- andGerman on the Internet.14
solidated Financial Statements and on the
FinancialStatements can be found on pages 120
12 www.roche.com/article_of_incorporation
and 143, respectively, of this year’s Finance
13 www.roche.com/article_of_incorporation
Report. 14 www.roche.com/media74
Roche Business Report 2008 Corporate Governance
• All relevant information and documents, includ-
ingall media releases, investor updates15and
presentations to analyst and investor conferences
are available on the Internet. Further publications
can be ordered by e-mail, fax or telephone:
basel.webmaster@roche.com;
tel. +41 (0)61 688 83 39; fax +41 (0)61 688 43 43.
• The contact address for Investor Relations is:
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Investor Relations,
Corporate Finance, 4070 Basel, Switzerland;
tel.+41 (0)61 688 88 80, fax +41 (0)61 691 00 14.
Additional information, including details on
specificcontact persons, is available on the
Internet.16
9 Group Compliance Officer
The Group Compliance Officer is committed to
ensuring that Roche corporate principles are
consistently complied with throughout the Roche
Group and also serves as a contact person for
shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers
andthe general public on issues relating to the
implementation of and compliance with these
principles. Employees and other parties who
become aware ofviolations of Roche corporate
principles can bring them to the attention of
theirmanagersorsupervisors or report them to
the Group Compliance Officer (Urs Jaisli, direct
phone number: +41 (0)61 688 40 18, e-mail:
urs.jaisli@roche.com). Such disclosures will be
treated confidentially and employees who make
such disclosures will not be penalised by the
company for doing so. However, these persons are
notimmune from prosecution forlegal violations.
TheGroup Compliance Officer reports regularly
tothe Corporate Governance andSustainability
Committee.
10Non-applicability/negative disclosure
It is expressly noted that any information not
contained or mentioned herein is non-applicable
orits omission is to be construed as a negative
declaration (as provided in the SIX Swiss
Exchange Corporate Governance Directive and
15 www.roche.com/investors
theCommentary thereto). 16 www.roche.com/contacts
www.global-reports.com75
Remuneration Report
Roche’s success depends on the abilities and dedi- Base pay
cation of its people. Recognition of this forms the Base pay levels are determined according to market
basis of our remuneration policy and system. In this data for specific positions and individual employees’
remuneration report we inform our shareholders abilities, experience and performance over time. Pay
andinterested members of the general public about increases are linked to individual performance and
the remuneration paid to our directors and senior also take into account prevailing market conditions,
executives (see also in the Finance Report, Note 33 affordability and the company’s situation.
tothe Roche Group Consolidated Financial State-
ments [‘Related parties’, page 113] and Notes 6 and 7 Bonuses
to the Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd Bonuses are awarded in recognition of individual con-
[‘Board and Executive remuneration’ and ‘Board tributions to value creation which go beyond normal job
andExecutive shareholdings’, pages 137 and 139]). expectations, and they are meant to be an incentive to
Thisremuneration report will be separately sub- create or strengthen new business opportunities and
mittedfor approval at the2009 Annual General strive for outstanding results. Bonus amounts are linked
Meeting. to Group or divisional business performance and to the
achievement of individual and functional performance
Remuneration policy objectives. For the first time in 2008, the Remuneration
Roche revised its global remuneration policy in 2004. Committee of the Board of Directors has defined the
It is part of a framework of employee policies aimed at Corporate Executive Committee members bonuses in
motivating and retaining current employees, attracting January 2009 based on results achieved for the prior
talented new ones and helping all Roche employees year. Therefore, bonuses for 2008 are shown together
to perform at consistently high levels. Our remunera- with compensation paid for 2008.
tion policy is designed to foster value creation and re-
inforce a culture of performance and innovation, and Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
it applies to non-managerial employees as well as to Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights were intro-
managers. The key principles underpinning this policy duced on 1 January 2005, thus establishing a uniform
are: system of remuneration throughout Roche. S-SARs
• Focus on value creation entitle holders to benefit financially from any increase
• Pay for performance in the value of Roche’s non-voting equity securities
• Enabling employees to share in the company’s between the grant date and the exercise date. Detailed
success information is available on page 78 and page 82 to 85.
• Fairness and transparency in remuneration
decisions Performance Share Plan
• Remuneration targeted at market median levels The members of the Corporate Executive Committee
• A balanced mix of long- and short-term remunera- and other members of senior management (currently
tion components some 117 individuals worldwide) participate in the
• Market-competitiveness. Performance Share Plan (PSP). The PSP was estab-
lished in 2002 for periods of three years each and is
Base pay, bonuses, awards of Stock-settled Stock based on a three year comparison of the total share-
Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) and a Performance holder return (TSR) with 19 competing companies.1
Share Plan support these principles. These remunera-
tion components are linked to our company’s financial 1 Peer set for 2008: Abbott Laboratories, Amgen, Astellas,
performance and commercial success and thus align AstraZeneca, Bayer, Beckton Dickinson, Biogen Idec,
Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Gilead, GlaxoSmithKline,
the interests of Roche employees with those of the
Johnson& Johnson, Merck & Co., Novartis, Pfizer, Sanofi-Aventis,
shareholders. Schering-Plough, Takeda, Wyeth.76
Roche Business Report 2008 Remuneration Report
In2008 there were three overlapping performance The following pages provide detailed information on
cycles, PSP 2006–2008, PSP 2007–2009 and the remuneration paid to each member of the Board
PSP2008–2010 of which PSP 2006–2008 closed of Directors and to each member of the Corporate
on31December 2008. Executive Committee for 2008, together with figures
for previous years.
Details for the PSP 2006–2008 calculation and
additional information are set forth in ‘Remuneration 1 Remuneration
of members of the Corporate Executive Committee, 1.1 Remuneration of members of the Board of
C.Performance Share Plan (PSP)’, page 78. Directors | In 2008 the members of the Board of
Directors3received the remuneration shown in the
Remuneration of the Board of Directors and the table ‘Remuneration of members of the Board of
Corporate Executive Committee Directors’ on page 77 for their Board activities.
Each year the Remuneration Committee, which is
entirely comprised of independent external members With the exception of the Chairman and the two
ofthe Board of Directors, sets remuneration for the Vice-Chairmen, all members of the Board of Directors
members of the Board of Directors and the Corporate have received the same remuneration since 2001.
Executive Committee (cash payments, bonuses, Thetotal remuneration paid for 2008 to members of
options, Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights and theBoard of Directors is shown in ‘F. Highest total
policy decisions about pension benefits). The terms remuneration to a member of the Board of Directors/
ofthe Performance Share Plan are determined annually Total remuneration of the Board of Directors’,
by the Board of Directors, acting upon recommen- page81.
dations from the Remuneration Committee. The Remu-
neration Committee continuously tracks salary trends in The non-executive members of the Board of Directors
the market and reports to the Board ofDirectors. In- were not awarded any shares, non-voting equity
formation on this committee’s remit andits procedures securities, Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights
for making remuneration decisions can befound in the (S-SARs)4or stock options in 2008.
Bylaws of the Roche Board of Directors.2
Horst Teltschik received honoraria (including
Following a detailed review, including market com- expenses) amounting to 19,635 euros (31,023 Swiss
parisons with the world’s major pharmaceutical com- francs) for serving on the boards of several Roche
panies, the Remuneration Committee has concluded subsidiaries in Germany.
that Roche’s current remuneration policy continues
tobe appropriate and suitable for achieving the Otherwise, no additional remuneration was paid to
intended objectives. members of the Board of Directors.
In addition to base salaries and allocations of Stock- 1.2 Remuneration of members of the Corporate
settled Stock Appreciation Rights, the determination Executive Committee | The general provisions
of bonuses and the allocation of non-voting equity assigning authority for decisions on Corporate Execu-
securities under the PSP are linked to the achieve- tive Committee remuneration to the Remuneration
ment of sales, profit and individual goals and
toRoche’s current and future TSR performance
relative to a defined peer set of companies 2 www.roche.com/article_of_incorporation
(seepage80). The type and amount of compensation 3 For a list of members, their positions and their committee
memberships and chairmanship, see page 67.
received by each member of the Corporate Executive
4 See ‘Stock options/Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights
Committee are set out in this report. (S-SARs)’, page 82.
www.global-reports.com77
Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors
Additional compensation 2008
Remuneration of members Remuneration 2008 for committee members/chairs5
of the Board of Directors (in CHF) (in CHF) Additional special compensation 2008
F.B. Humer (see page 816) 50,000 (Remuneration as Chairman
of the Board of Directors
and CEO until 4 March 2008,
see page 816)
B. Gehrig 408,8717 –
A. Hoffmann 400,0008 –
P. Baschera 300,000 30,000
J.I. Bell 300,000 30,000
P. Brabeck-Letmathe 300,000 –
L.J.R. de Vink 300,000 30,000
W. Frey 300,000 60,000
D.A. Julius 300,000 60,000
A. Oeri 300,000 60,000
W. Ruttenstorfer 300,000 30,000
H. Teltschik 300,000 60,000 Compensation for serving
on the boards of Roche
subsidiaries, see page 76
B. Weder di Mauro 300,000 60,000
5 With the exception of members of the Presidium and the Vice-Chairmen, Board members receive CHF 30,000/year for each committee
they serve on and CHF 60,000/year for each committee they chair. The Chairman of the Board received CHF 50,000.
6 See ‘F. Highest total remuneration to a member of the Board of Directors/Total remuneration of the Board of Directors’, page 81.
7 Remuneration for serving as Independent Lead Director until 4 March 2008 and Vice-Chairman of the Board.
8 Remuneration for serving as Vice-Chairman of the Board.
Remuneration of members of the Corporate Executive Committee
A. Cash payments | in CHF
Annual salary Annual salary Annual salary Bonus Bonus Bonus
2008 2007 2006 for 2008 for 2007 for 2006
S. Schwan 2,283,340 1,100,000 762,500 3,000,000 2,500,000 1,000,000
S. Ayyoubi 481,670 * * 500,000 * *
W.M. Burns 2,000,000 2,000,000 1,875,000 2,500,000 2,500,000 2,000,000
E. Hunziker 2,000,000 2,000,000 1,900,000 2,200,000 2,200,000 2,000,000
G.A. Keller 1,350,000 900,000 850,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 500,000
J.K.C. Knowles 1,350,000 1,350,000 1,325,000 308,900 1,000,000 800,000
J. Schwiezer 1,200,000 * * 1,000,000 * *
Total 10,665,010 10,508,900
* Not a member of the Corporate Executive Committee.78
Roche Business Report 2008 Remuneration Report
B. Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
S-SARs9 S-SARs9 S-SARs9
2008 2007 2006
(value in CHF10) (value in CHF10) (value in CHF10)
S. Schwan 2,225,542 1,068,062 533,978
S. Ayyoubi 445,146 * *
W.M. Burns 2,225,542 1,780,140 889,963
E. Hunziker 1,958,480 1,780,140 889,963
G.A. Keller 1,335,313 890,125 533,978
J.K.C. Knowles 1,335,313 890,125 533,978
J. Schwiezer 890,229 * *
Total 10,415,565
* Not a member of the Corporate Executive Committee.
9 See ‘Stock options/Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)’, page 82.
10 Black-Scholes value as described in ‘Stock options/Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)’, page 82 to 85. Values for 2006
and 2007 according to Annual Report 2007, Business Report, page 51.
Committee and to the Board of Directors are outlined Under the provisions of this plan, a number of non-
on page 76 of this remuneration report. voting equity securities (NES) have been reserved for
the participants in each cycle. The number of securi-
For the year 2008 the members of the Corporate ties actually awarded will depend on whether and to
Executive Committee11received the salaries, bonuses, what extent an investment in Roche securities (shares
Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights and non- and NES) outperforms the average return on an
voting equity securities shown in the tables on page 77 investment in securities issued by a peer set of com-
to 82. parator companies.12Comparisons are based on the
securities’ market prices and dividend yields, i.e. on
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee total shareholder Return (TSR). To reduce the effect
additionally receive annual expense allowances of short-term market fluctuations, security prices are
of30,000 Swiss francs. In 2008 the members ofthe averaged over the three months (October to Decem-
Corporate Executive Committee received expense ber) prior to the start of a performance cycle and over
allowances totalling 210,000 Swiss francs. the three months (October to December) at the end
of the cycle. If Roche securities perform as well as
C. Performance Share Plan (PSP) orbetter than those of 75% of the peer set and, in
The members of the Corporate Executive Committee addition, Roche’s TSR increases at least 10% during
and other members of senior management (currently acycle, the Board of Directors can elect to increase
some 117 individuals worldwide) participate in the the maximum NES award by as much as two-fold.
Performance Share Plan (PSP). Inthe event that an investment in Roche securities
underperforms the average return delivered by the
In 2006 the PSP moved to overlapping three-year peer companies, fewer or no NES will be awarded.
performance cycles, with a new cycle beginning each
year. In 2008 there were thus three cycles in progress In 2008 NES were reserved under the plan for mem-
(PSP 2006–2008, PSP 2007–2009 and PSP bers of the Corporate Executive Committee as shown
2008–2010); the PSP 2006–2008 ended on
31December 2008.
11 For a list of members and their positions, see page 68.
12 See footnote 1, page 75.
www.global-reports.com79
in the table below. The Board of Directors will decide Swiss francs), the TSR of the Roche securities
on the actual level of NES or cash equivalent awards (NESand shares) ranked #10, compared with its
for the cycles 2007–2009 and 2008–2010 after the peer set of companies operating in the same industry.
close of the 2009 and 2010 financial years, respec-
tively. The aim of the PSP is to provide an incentive to As the chart on page 80 shows, Roche’s market
participants to achieve steady value growth. capitalisation has declined since the beginning of
2006. Consequently, only 75% of the originally targeted
The PSP 2006–2008 three-year cycle ended on NES will be awarded to PSP participants for the
31December 2008. Based on the results achieved 2006–2008 performance cycle, and the current value
over the entire period, the members of the Corporate of NES reserved for PSP participants in respect of the
Executive Committee received 75% of the originally 2007–2009 and 2008–2010 performance cycles is
targeted NES, as permitted under the terms of the reduced. In addition, the S-SARs programme has
plan (see table below for details). created no value for its participants over the last three
years. As a result, the Corporate Executive Committee
At the end of the PSP 2006–2008 cycle (based on members’ compensation has turned out to be about
athree-month moving average at constant exchange 25% lower than reported during the past three years —
rates) with distributed dividends totalling 9.055 billion more than the absolute decline in the price of Roche
Swiss francs (2006: 2.156 billion Swiss francs; securities during the same period. It is important
2007:2.932 billion Swiss francs; 2008: 3.967 billion toremember, however, that while the 2006–2008 PSP
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
200813 200714
Total estimated Total estimated 200614
value of value of Value of PSP
Number of NES PSP awards PSP awards awards
awarded for PSP (2006–2008 (2005–2007, (2005–2007
Target number Target number 2006–2008 and 2007–2009 2006–2008 and
of NES for PSP of NES for PSP (total number for and 2008–2010) and 2007–2009) 2006–2008)
2008–2010 2007–2009 3-year period) (value in CHF) (value in CHF) (value in CHF)
S. Schwan 1,965 1,218 838 217,804 557,264 477,851
S.Ayyoubi 638 507 413 84,392 * *
W.M. Burns 3,276 3,046 1,934 447,200 1,612,918 1,414,318
E. Hunziker 3,276 3,046 2,063 454,188 1,904,622 1,706,023
G.A. Keller 1,474 1,370 902 202,908 738,912 649,587
J.K.C. Knowles 2,211 2,056 1,611 318,392 1,364,636 1,230,585
J. Schwiezer 1,965 1,216 978 225,279 * *
Total 14,805 12,459 8,739 1,950,163
* Not a member of the Corporate Executive Committee.
13 Total estimated value for 2008:
PSP 2006–2008: 75% of the originally targeted NES awarded for2006–2008, spread over the relevant period of time, i.e. 1⁄ 3for the year
2008, value calculated using the year-end price as of 31 December 2008, CHF 162.50 per non-voting equity security (NES).
PSP 2007–2009 and 2008–2010: Estimated value calculated using the year-end price as of 31 December 2008, CHF 162.50 per non-
voting equity security (NES), based on the number of NES originally targeted subject to changes in the number and value of NES
awardable under the plan on 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2010, respectively, and spread over the relevant period of time,
i.e.1⁄ 3for the year 2008. The Board ofDirectors will vote on the actual allocation of NES originally targeted on 31 December 2009 and
31 December 2010, respectively, according to the TSR achieved.
14 Detailed calculation see Annual Report 2007, Business Report, page 52.80
Roche Business Report 2008 Remuneration Report
Roche’s performance | 2006–2008
Roche TSR Average TSR of peer
group companies
1 Jan. 2006 31 Dec. 2008 1 Jan. 2006 31 Dec. 2008
125 100 100 96
89
100
75
50
25
Roche’s average market capitalisation in billions of CHF 171 144
(Q4 2005 & Q4 2008)
Roche securities (price averaged over 3 months): Oct.–Dec. 2005 Oct.–Dec. 2008
— Non-voting equity security (NES) 194 166
— Share 218 170
Prices translated at constant CHF exchange rates, including Roche based on the daily 3 month average.
TSR = stock price appreciation plus dividends.
performance cycle has ended, the other PSP cycles Committee are shown in the table ‘Indirect benefits
ofthe equity incentive programmes remain inplace in2008’ below.
andprovide a powerful incentive to participants to
contribute to improving Roche’s future performance. Roche Connect is a voluntary stock purchase
planoffering employees the opportunity to buy
D.Indirect benefits Rochenon-voting equity securities (NES) up to
Employer contributions made in 2008 to social anamount equal to 10% of their annual salary
securityschemes, pension plans and a Group-wide ata20% discount.NESpurchased under this plan
employee stock purchase plan (Roche Connect) are subjectto a holding period, which is four
inrespect of members of the Corporate Executive yearsinSwitzerland.
Indirect benefits in 2008
Payments for
Pension funds/MGB15 AHV/IV/ALV16 Roche Connect tax consulting services
(in CHF) (in CHF) (in CHF) (in CHF)
S. Schwan 202,320 287,106 48,956 10,921
S. Ayyoubi 318,373 87,099 1,125 1,990
W.M. Burns 37,064 389,459 30,000 18,012
E. Hunziker 605,482 409,100 49,992 8,799
G.A. Keller 364,489 216,141 31,250 –
J.K.C. Knowles 728,401 321,641 22,500 31,376
J. Schwiezer 166,223 66,465 7,600 6,682
Total 2,422,352 1,777,011 191,423 77,780
15 MGB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing
occupational pension benefits).
16 AHV/IV/ALV: Swiss social security programmes providing retirement, disability and unemployment benefits.
www.global-reports.com81
E. Other remuneration, emoluments and loans on4March 2008 he will not receive any additional
In 2008 pensions totalling 2,043,896 Swiss S-SARs or NES from new PSP cycles and will no
francswere paid to two former Corporate Executive longer be enrolled in any Roche stock option plan
Committee members. orS-SARs.
In 2008 Erich Hunziker, William M. Burns and His salary was as shown below, which includes
Jonathan K.C. Knowles received a total of hisremuneration as CEO until 4 March 2008 and
USD62,500 (67,500 Swiss francs) for serving inaddition the possible future values of PSP awards
ontheChugai Board. received in the past as CEO (subject to changes
inallocations and computations relating to the
F. Highest total remuneration to a member three-year Performance Share Plan [PSP] period
of the Board of Directors/Total remuneration 2007–2009).
ofthe Board of Directors
Franz B. Humer as the chairman was the member For 2008 the members of the Board of Directors
ofthe Board with the highest total remuneration for received remuneration totalling 19,488,845Swiss
2008 (see ‘Remuneration of members of the Board francs.17
ofDirectors’, page 77). The Chairman’s remuneration
consists of base salary and bonus awards. As Chair-
man of the Board after the handover of his executive
17 See ‘Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors,
function as CEO at the Annual General Meeting page77.
Highest total remuneration to a member of the Board of Directors
200818
(in CHF)
Cash payments (salary + bonus) 11,030,000
S-SARs None
Performance Share Plan19
(2006–2008, 2007–200920)
Total 918,613
Pension funds/MGB21 2,955,697
Roche Connect 64,585
Total (value) 15,228,95122
18 For detailed calculation of the remuneration as Chairman and CEO for 2007 and 2006 see Annual Report 2007, Business Report,
page55.
19 Franz B. Humer does not take part in the PSP 2008–2010.
20 PSP 2006–2008: 75% of the originally targeted NES awarded (75% of 10,365 NES, for 2006–2008, spread over the relevant period
oftime, i.e. 1⁄ for the year 2008, value calculated using the year-end price as of 31 December 2008, CHF 162.50 per non-voting equity
3
security [NES]).
PSP 2007–2009: Estimated value calculated using the year-end price as of 31 December 2008, CHF 162.50 per non-voting equity
security (NES), based on the number of NES originally targeted (9,185 NES) subject to changes in the number and value of NES
awardable under the plan on 31 December 2009 and spread over the relevant period of time, i.e. 1⁄ 3for the year 2008. The Board
ofDirectors will vote on the actual allocation of NES originally targeted on 31 December 2009 according to the TSR achieved.
21 MGB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing
occupational pension benefits).
22 Includes an annual expense allowance, payments for tax consulting services, remuneration for serving on the Chugai Board,
notincluding employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV (CHF 1,520,754).82
Roche Business Report 2008 Remuneration Report
G. Total remuneration of members of the Corporate Attheend of 2008 this group held 80,020,000 shares
Executive Committee/Total remuneration of the (50.01% of issued shares). Detailed information
Corporate Executive Committee aboutthis group can be found in the Finance Report,
Severin Schwan as CEO was the member of the Note33 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial
Corporate Executive Committee with the highest total Statements (‘Related parties’, page 113) and in the
remuneration for 2008, see ’Remuneration of Note 4 to the Financial Statements of Roche
members of the Corporate Executive Committee’, HoldingLtd (‘Significant shareholders’, page 136).
A.–E., page 76 to page 81. Inaddition, as of 31 December 2008 the members
Highest total remuneration to a member of the Corporate Executive Committee
2008
(in CHF)
Cash payments (salary + bonus) 5,283,340
Stock options/S-SARs
(Black-Scholes value23at grant minus 11%) 2,225,542
Performance Share Plan24 (2006–2008, 2007–2009, 2008–2010)
Total 217,804
Pension funds/MGB25 202,320
Roche Connect 48,956
Total (value) 8,018,88326
23 Black-Scholes value as described in ‘Stock options/Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)’, page 82 to 85.
24 Basic rules and detailed calculation see ‘Remuneration of members of the Corporate Executive Committee’, C. Performance Share Plan,
page 78 and page 79, footnote 13, respectively.
25 MGB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing
occupational pension benefits).
26 Includes an annual expense allowance, payments for tax consulting services, excluding AHV/IV/ALV payments.
His remuneration was as shown above, subject to ofthe Board of Directors and persons closely asso-
future changes in allocations and computations ciated with them and the members of the Executive
relating to the three-year Performance Share Plan Committee and persons closely associated with
(PSP) periods 2007–2009 and 2008–2010. themheld shares and NES as shown in the table on
page 83.
For 2008 the members of the Corporate Executive
Committee received remuneration totalling 1.4 Stock options/Stock-settled Stock Appreciation
36,508,693Swiss francs27. Rights (S-SARs) | At 31 December 2008 Franz B.
Humer (being the only member of the Board of
No additional remuneration was paid to current or Directors holding options and as of 1 January 2005
former members of the Corporate Executive Commit- S-SARs due to his former position as CEO) and the
tee. members of the Corporate Executive Committee held
options and Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights
1.3 Security holdings | Directors André Hoffmann (S-SARs; first introduced on 1 January 2005) as
and Andreas Oeri and members of the founders’
families who are closely associated with them belong
27 See ‘Remuneration of members of the Corporate Executive
to ashareholder group with pooled voting rights. Committee’, (A.–E.) excluding AHV/IV/ALV, page 76 to 81.
www.global-reports.com83
Security holdings (at 31 December 2008)
Close
Relatives’
Shares NES security holdings Others
(number) (number) (number/type) (number)
Members of the Board of Directors
F.B. Humer 3 153,919 – Stock options, S-SARs see 1.4
B. Gehrig 50 50 – –
A. Hoffmann –* 365,200** – 250,000 UBS Long/Short Certificate on
Roche Bearer Shares versus Roche Non-Voting
Equity securities (ISIN: CH0026480100,
Valor: 2 648 010)
365,000 OTC Call options UBS AG on
Roche Non-Voting Equity securities,
21.08.2008–20.08.2010, (Valor: 4 103 145)**
P. Baschera 1 – – –
J.I. Bell 300 1,647 – –
P. Brabeck-Letmathe 800 2,195 – –
L.J.R. de Vink – – – 1,000 American Depository Receipts (ADR),
RHHBY, US ISIN: US7711951043
W. Frey 72,500 – – –
D.A. Julius 350 1,550 – –
A. Oeri 90,000* 1,640,460 – 250,000 UBS Long/Short Certificate on
Roche Bearer Shares versus Roche Non-Voting
Equity securities (Valor: 2 648 010)
W. Ruttenstorfer 1,000 – – –
H. Teltschik 385 – – –
B. Weder di Mauro 200 – – –
Total 165,589 2,165,021 –
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee
S. Schwan 3 9,468 270 NES Stock options, S-SARs see 1.4
S. Ayyoubi 3 7,161 – Stock options, S-SARs see 1.4
W.M. Burns 3 53,460 – Stock options, S-SARs see 1.4
E. Hunziker 3 43,839 – Stock options, S-SARs see 1.4
G.A. Keller 1,063 21,854 140 NES Stock options, S-SARs see 1.4
J.K.C. Knowles 3 33,065 – Stock options, S-SARs see 1.4
J. Schwiezer 3 10,960 Stock options, S-SARs see 1.4
Total 1,081 179,807 410 NES
* Figure does not include shares held by the shareholders group with pooled voting rights.
** Share-settled loan transaction as of 21 August 2008 reported to SIX Swiss Exchange.84
Roche Business Report 2008 Remuneration Report
shown in the table ‘Stock options and S-SARs’ period of three years. Unvested options lapse without
below. compensation if employment is terminated voluntarily
(for reasons other than retirement), while vested
All of the options shown in the table were issued by options must be exercised within a limited period of
Roche as employee stock options. Each option time. The fair value of the options is calculated at the
entitles the holder to purchase one Roche non-voting date of issue using the Black-Scholes formula and as
equity security (NES). if the options were tradable, with an 11% deduction
for the average two-year vesting period.
Under the terms of this multi-year option plan, the
strike price for options shown was the closing price The S-SARs shown in the table below were intro-
for Roche NES on the last day of trading prior to the duced by Roche on 1 January 2005 in place of stock
Roche Annual Media Conference. All of the options options. S-SARs entitle holders to benefit financially
shown are non-tradable. One-third of the options are from any increase in the value of Roche’s NES
subject to a vesting period of one year, one-third have between the grant date and the exercise date. The
a vesting period of two years, and one-third a vesting strike price for S-SARs under the terms of this multi-
Stock options and S-SARs
Number of stock options and S-SARs held by current and former members of the Corporate Executive Committee
on 31 December 2008 (S-SARs first issued in 2005)
200828 200728 200628 200528 200429 200329 200229 Total
S. Schwan 105,576 29,190 15,696 4,98329 1,864 1,635 – 158,944
S. Ayyoubi 21,117 3,243 2,517 3,957 2,360 2,324 1,900 37,418
W.M. Burns 105,576 48,651 26,160 34,074 14,874 17,353 – 246,688
E. Hunziker 92,907 48,651 26,160 34,074 20,915 – – 222,707
G.A. Keller 63,345 24,327 15,696 3,150 4,000 – – 110,518
J.K.C. Knowles 63,345 24,327 15,696 – – – – 103,368
J. Schwiezer 42,231 9,819 5,565 8,871 5,610 3,065 – 75,161
494,097 188,208 107,490 89,109 49,623 24,377 1,900 954,804
F.B. Humer None30 48,651 52,317 85,179 55,775 – – 241,922
Total 494,097 236,859 159,807 174,288 105,398 24,377 1,900 1,196,726
Strike price in (CHF) 195.80 229.60 195.00 123.00 129.50 77.80 115.50
Market price per NES
on 31 December 2008
(CHF) 162.50
Expiry date 31.1.2015 8.2.2014 2.2.2013 3.2.2012 3.2.2011 25.2.2010 26.2.2009
Grant value per option
and (starting in 2005)
per S-SAR in CHF
(Black-Scholes value
minus 11%) 21.08 36.59 34.02 20.89 31.92 16.27 30.10
28 S-SARs.
29 Stock options.
30 As of 2008 Franz B. Humer does not receive any additional S-SARs.
www.global-reports.com85
year plan was the closing price for Roche NES on the
first day of trading after the Roche Annual Media
Conference. All S-SARs vest within three years of the
grant date: i.e. one-third vest at the end of one year,
one-third at the end of two years, and one-third at the
end of three years. Vested S-SARs must be exercised
(converted into NES) within seven years of the grant
date, and unexercised S-SARs lapse without compen-
sation. The fair value of the options is calculated at
the date of issue using the Black-Scholes formula and
as if the options were tradable, with an 11% deduc-
tion for the average two-year vesting period.
The strike prices, expiry dates and grant values
foroptions and S-SARs are shown in the table on
page 84. The numbers of options and S-SARs as
calculated at the time of issue have been entered as
values in the table ‘Remuneration of members of
theCorporate Executive Committee, B. Stock-settled
Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)’ on page 78.Corporate Responsibility |
As a
leading healthcare company, our goal is to
develop and make available products and
services that address unmet medical needs
and are of real value to society. We aim to
provide tangible improvements in patients’
health, quality and length of life – this is
our core contribution. We do this in a
responsible and sustainable manner that
respects the needs of the individual, the
society and the environment. To make this
possible, we are committed to finding and
retaining talented people and developing
their skills.
www.global-reports.com87
In brief
Our approach data to monitor and manage topics that are key to our
Roche is viewed as one of the most sustainable and long-term sustainability and success. The table shows
highly responsible companies in our industry. Our some of the progress made in 2008.
approach to corporate responsibility is to provide
value for all our stakeholders — the millions of people Management responsibilities
around the world who have an influence on, or inter- Corporate responsibility is an integral part of our
est in, our business. We engage with key groups and business. The CSC, together with line management,
benchmark our achievements against the industry and identifies and assesses significant social, ethical and
best practice. We are convinced that constructive dia- environmental risks and opportunities to our long-
logue improves the way we formulate and implement term business and reputation as a responsible com-
our business strategy and helps us better understand pany. For the fourth consecutive year, the CSC held a
the needs of the communities in which weoperate. two-day workshop with around 60 employees from a
Our Corporate Sustainability Committee (CSC) has variety of functions to discuss emerging sustainability-
identified six areas of high importance to our business related issues and ensure we continue to progress
and our stakeholders, as well as key performance our strategy and performance. In 2008 the CSC pro-
indicators (KPIs) for measuring progress in each area. posed new or updated positions and guidelines on
We began to collect data for these KPIs in 2008. The several important topics, which were implemented
CSC and Corporate Executive Committee use these throughout the Group (see table).
Progress and achievements in 2008
Responsible practices Established ‘Excellence in Innovation’ Awards
Included in DJSI World Index for fifth consecutive year, and FTSE4Good
Introduced new guidelines for working with government officials
Revised position paper and guidelines for working with patient groups and establishedonline
database
Introduced several compliance initiatives, including a web-based system to report Business
Ethics Incidents
Developed an influenza preparedness plan for Roche employees worldwide and established
awebsite for US businesses in collaboration with WHO and the European Centre for Disease
Prevention
Launched ‘3R Awards’ for animal welfare
Patients and access Began a partnership with OneWorld Health
to healthcare Ran CARE programme information exchange to share best practices in Africa
Developed and rolled out three new position papers on Access tomedicines and diagnostics,
Pricing, and R&D into neglected diseases
Developed 12 new principles on Health Technology Assessment
Five drugs in eight indications approved, twelve major phase III projects initiated
People Roche named sixth and Genentech first in the Sciencemagazine ranking of best employers
inthe healthcare industry
Launched new ‘Make your Mark’ employer branding campaign
Society Launched Chocos project for people affected by the earthquake inPeru
Continued projects in Malawi in collaboration with ECPP & UNICEF
Launched international postdoctoral fellowship programme
Safety, security, Developed position paper on pharmaceuticals in the environment
health and environ- Achieved greenhouse gas and VOC emission reduction target
mental protection Achieved energy-efficiency target88
Roche Business Report 2008 Corporate Responsibility
Responsible practices
A healthcare company like Roche — one based on • Clinical research associates, who collect input
research and innovation — has many responsibilities, fromthe field and feed back into new clinical
risks and opportunities. Innovation based on science development
and technology will support our product pipeline • Advisory boards with opinion leaders for feedback
overthe next decade, and emerging technologies will on our development programmes and publication
support product development from 2015 onward. plans
Thislong-term focus requires sustainable business • Disease management programmes with managed
practices. In this section we describe how we manage care agencies
related responsibilities. • Health awareness programmes with government
departments
Customer relationship management • Support and education for care-givers.
We consider customer needs and expectations to
help improve customer satisfaction and commercial Customer satisfaction is integral to our Diagnostics
effectiveness. We highly value customer feedback and division. Between a third and half of Diagnostics
use a range of initiatives to respond to their questions employees work in customer service and sup-
and requests. We use customer input to develop local port.Inconsumer businesses such as diabetes
and regional action plans that build on our strengths care,customer satisfaction is directly linked to
and identify potential weaknesses. customer loyalty. For this reason, local sales offices
carry out market analyses to assess how satisfied
We set quantitative and qualitative targets and regu- customers are with our products. Results are fed
larly measure our progress. We also carry out com- backto customer service and support for
prehensive market research and analysis, often at a implementation.
divisional or local level to best meet specific market
needs. In the UK, for example, our oncology division Public and private healthcare payers are also
runs an annual satisfaction survey with leading oncol- important. Their decisions to grant or deny access to
ogists. We analyse their feedback on individual prod- health technologies have profound implications for
ucts and our overall portfolio to see how we can bet- patients, their families and society. We engage with
ter meet theirs’ and their patients’ needs. Working payers throughout a product’s lifecycle. This includes
with leading clinicians and other opinion leaders is an guidance on assessing the value of our products
important part of our business. They provide input into: andservices (Health Technology Assessment — HTA)
• Target product profiles to improve their attractive- priorto deciding reimbursement and funding
ness to relevant stakeholders, including payers conditions.
• Clinical development plans, e.g. by designing and
participating in trials Business integrity and compliance
• The publication of trial results Our corporate principles, directives, guidelines
• Our regulatory filing strategy andpolicies form our Code of Conduct. This guides
• The development of health outcome studies allemployees on acting with integrity at all times,
• Disease awareness plans and product messages andhow to voice concerns. Employees complete
• Initial treatment guidelines. mandatory training to ensure they understand
ourCode of Conduct. In 2008 we made available
We also engage with customers through: onour intranet a video to raise awareness ofthe legal
• Medical liaisons, who gather information from and business risks of carelessly written e-mails.
clinicians and patients to share internally
• Education and development programmes for We took several steps to further strengthen our
opinion leaders integrity in 2008. We introduced an online business
www.global-reports.com89
ethics incident reporting system (BEIR) that enables organisations to help them establish preparedness
the Group Compliance Officer to capture, track and plans. We increased our capacity to manufacture
monitor alleged violations from initial reports by local Tamiflu (oseltamivir), an antiviral used to prevent and
compliance officers through to resolution. The BEIR treat influenza, so governments and others could
system led to an increase in ethical incidents reported stockpile the drug in case of a pandemic. Over
from 43 in 2007 to 123 in 2008. We took corrective 80governments and 300corporations have done so.
measures where necessary. In 2008 59 employment While our manufacturing capacity outstrips current
contracts were terminated due to unethical behaviour, demand, this could quickly change in a pandemic.
compared with 17 in 2007. Wetherefore continue to stress the importance
ofstockpiling Tamiflu and work with Governments
Risk and crisis management toensure preparedness.
Our Risk Management Charter defines our risk
management approach and responsibilities. Typical Responsible marketing
risks to our business include investment in research Roche is committed to high standards in all marketing
that does not yield results and product safety issues. activities. There are strict regulations on the sale and
There is an extensive list of risks on our website. marketing of pharmaceutical and diagnostic products,
to help make sure that healthcare professionals pre-
Every business unit and global function conducts scribe and administer medicines correctly, and that
arisk assessment at least once a year, and develops patients understand the associated benefits and risks.
plans to address the most serious risks. These
aremanaged locally where expertise is available. A list of the external guidelines and codes of practice
Linemanagers are responsible for taking any required we follow when marketing our products is available
action. The Corporate Risk Management team coor- on our website.
dinates this process, and reports results to the
Corporate Executive Committee and the Audit The European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries
Committee of the Board. In 2008 we reviewed the and Associations (EFPIA) issued the latest revision to
effectiveness of our risk management system. its code of practice in late 2007, and its member asso-
ciations in each country updated their own codes
The Corporate Sustainability Committee holds regular accordingly during 2008. The Pharmaceutical Research
meetings and workshops to identify and assess social, and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) also revised
environmental and ethical risks and opportunities its code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals
based on our own expertise and experience, as well in 2008. We have adapted our internal guidelines and
as stakeholder feedback. Material risks identified are standard operating procedures globally to align with
included in the Group risk management process. these revisions and introduced additional employee
training to ensure compliance.
We introduced a risk management section on
ourintranet in 2008 to raise awareness among In July 2008 our UK affiliate accepted the Prescription
employees. The site contains risk management Medicines Code of Practice Authority’s decision to
guidelines, frameworks and tools as well as a suspend it from the Association of the British Pharma-
calendar of risk-related lectures and discussions, ceutical Industry for six months for breaching the
andenables employees to share best practices. Code, by unintentionally selling our slimming drug
Xenical to an unlicensed clinic. Roche UK responded
We also help others to manage risks or potential immediately by implementing broad and intensive
crises such as an influenza pandemic. For example, training based on updated compliance policies and
wework with governments, corporations and health procedures.90
Roche Business Report 2008 Corporate Responsibility
Advertising directly to patients can allow the provision Our suppliers must meet our safety, health and
of accurate, balanced and easily digestible informa- environmental protection standards, which are
tion. It also motivates patients to learn more about included in our procurement contracts. We have a
their disease and discuss it with their healthcare new program for labour standards and human rights
provider. Public advertising for diagnostics is legal for suppliers in regions where problems in these
inmost markets and can be very educational. areas are common. We plan to extend our sustainable
Forexample, millions of diabetes patients worldwide procurement activities to suppliers of non-production
benefit frominformation provided by our Accu-Chek materials and services.
brand, such as patient brochures, diabetes diaries,
andregular newsletters covering topics such as Our Pharmaceuticals Division carries out audits to
diabetesmanagement, recipes, lifestyle and identify and correct problems with business-critical
behaviourtips. suppliers, and to assess new ones. We support
suppliers to implement any required improvements by
Unlike most countries, the USA permits the advertise- sharing our expertise and documentation, running
ment of prescription medicines directly to consumers. workshops and providing training. In 2008 we audited
We endorse the laws that regulate pharmaceutical safety, health and environmental standards at 18 key
advertising in the USA. As a member company of the suppliers. Nine were existing suppliers, seven were
Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of potential suppliers and two were following up on
America (PhRMA), we also fully endorse its strength- previous audits.
ened direct-to-consumer (DTC) guiding principles
announced in December 2008, and effective from We have carried out 99 such audits in total over
March 2009. We are confident that all our DTC adver- thelast five years. More than half produced good or
tising complies with these principles, as well as very good results, and less than 10% of suppliers
applicable laws and Food and Drug Administration barely met or did not meet acceptable standards.
regulations, including those of the Division for Drug Werejected or stopped doing business with six sup-
Marketing Advertising and Communications. In addi- pliers that we were unable to help improve. The main
tion, wewelcome the EU Commission’s proposal for areas for improvement identified by our audits were
a directive on information to patients. We see this as lack of knowledge and insufficient industrial hygiene
anopportunity to improve all EU citizens’ access to and worker protection, especially when handling
high-quality information on health and prescription hazardous substances.
medicines.
The Diagnostics Division plans to incorporate sustain-
Sustainable procurement ability elements into its regular suppliers auditing
Our pharmaceutical and diagnostics divisions in2009, starting with the 290 most important sup-
spendroughly 13 billion Swiss francs annually on pliers basedon spending and business criticality.
products and services from suppliers — ranging Wewillroll out the process to more suppliers if
fromitems such as raw materials and active pharma- necessary.
ceutical ingredients to equipment, laboratory and
office supplies, computer equipment, and services In 2008 Roche hosted a World Environment Center
likeconsultancy, travel and marketing. Our Global roundtable discussion on effectively integrating
Strategic Procurement organisation helps us to select sustainability into procurement. Forty sustainability
reliable suppliers and secure supplies, increase representatives from industry, government, science
supplier performance and financial control, improve and consultancies concluded that even advanced
procurement expertise and apply best practices companies still struggle to successfully integrate
worldwide. theconcept of sustainability into procurement,
www.global-reports.com91
butthat the risks of not doing so are significant. The • Participation in the Organisation for Economic
group also reviewed best practice examples. Cooperation and Development’s (OECD) working
group on guidelines for human biobanks and
Public policy genetic research databases
Honest and transparent dialogue between govern- • Participation in projects related to the future of
ments and the private sector is fundamental to the Health Technology Assessment (HTA) in Europe,
development of public policy in general, and public sponsored by the EU Commission.
health policy in particular. The private sector has a
vital role to play in developing laws, regulations and Combating counterfeits | Counterfeit pharma-
policies that enable the best possible patient care. ceutical and diagnostic products are illegal and
Wetake part in such dialogue in an appropriate and poseasignificant global public health problem.
professional manner. Theyendanger patients, undermine confidence
inhealthcare systems and companies, infringe
In 2008 we introduced good practice guidelines for onintellectual property rights and waste valuable
working with government officials. These were distri- healthcare budgets.
buted to all general, country and site managers for
implementation in their area of responsibility andare We continuously monitor and improve product secu-
available on our website. rity using technology to quickly identify counterfeits.
We participate in national and international industry
We carry out much of our public policy work through and governmental efforts to develop stronger laws
our membership of industry bodies such as the and improve enforcement, educate the public and
EFPIA, the European Diagnostics Manufacturers train local officials.
Association (EDMA) and the International Federation
of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associations In 2008 the European Commission held a public
(IFPMA), as well as their national members. We also consultation on combating counterfeit medicines and
meet directly with policymakers including members developed proposed legislation. We support legislative
ofthe European Parliament, health bodies such as reform and believe it should focus on the integrity of
theEuropean Centre for Disease Control, the World original packaging throughout the pharmaceutical sup-
Health Organization, policy think tanks and health ply chain. Along with EFPIA, we call for more stringent
policy academics. Examples of our public policy controls during the manufacture, trade and distribution
engagement in 2008 include: of active pharmaceutical ingredients andmedicines.
• Response to the European Commission (EC)
consultation on information for patients about Generic and biosimilar products| The patent peri-
prescription medicines ods for the first innovative biological products such as
• Contribution to the UK House of Lords inquiry proteins and antibodies are starting to come to an
onthe impact of genomics on clinical practice and end. While it is relatively easy for other manufacturers
on personalised healthcare to copy chemical products, biological products have
• Response to the EC consultation on the medical complex molecular structures and are obtained from
devices legislation, which includes ‘in vitro’ living systems using extremely complex processes. We
diagnostics support the development of a well-defined and trans-
• Comments on the Japanese draft guidelines on parent regulatory framework for the development,
follow-on biologics approval and post-authorisation procedures for
• Participation in meetings about the World Health biosimilars that are based on those for the original
Organization guidelines for abbreviated licensing products.
pathways for certain biological therapeutics92
Roche Business Report 2008 Corporate Responsibility
We have held over 20 meetings with opinion leaders, the Global Ethics Liaison Office received 38queries.
health authority representatives and parliamentarians All were resolved without escalation.
from many different countries to discuss this issue
and exchange information. They have welcomed our The CREAG meets annually to review the concerns
feedback, as issues relating to the safety, efficacy raised with the Global Ethics Liaison Office, and
andquality of biosimilars are complex to understand todiscuss other relevant ethical topics. At the 2008
and manage. meeting, the CREAG was briefed on the recent
workof the Global Ethics Liaison office. It also
We keep our employees up to date through a dedi- reviewed current topics including revisions to the
cated section on our intranet. A recently updated Declaration ofHelsinki by the World Medical
version of our position statement is available on our Association and the conduct of clinical trials in
website. developing countries.
Political contributions | US federal law prohibits Another panel of independent advisors, the Science
usfrom making political contributions to federal can- and Ethics Advisory Group (SEAG), advises and
didates, although employees may make personal guides us on genetics, genomics and proteomics.
contributions to the Hoffmann-La Roche Good Following discussions with the SEAG, in 2008 we
Government Committee (GGC), a voluntary political published a revised Group policy and standardised
action committee, or participate in the Roche Action procedures on human specimen repositories. Reposi-
Programme. Employees contributed 416,680US tories of biological materials such as tissue, organs,
dollars through these mechanisms in 2008. blood and other bodily fluids are invaluable for
exploring aspects of disease that might eventually
Research practices lead to better treatments. They also contain sensitive
We cannot develop innovative medicines and diag- information of the person to whom that sample
nostics without pushing scientific boundaries and belongs. We are dedicated to protecting the rights
exploring new technologies. Ethical concerns can and privacy of our donors, and to providing informa-
arise as a result, and we must explore and manage tion on all aspects of specimen donation before
these effectively as we capture the opportunities theyagree to give a sample.
ourresearch brings.
Animal welfare | We recognise and take seriously
Ethics in R&D | Our global position on clinical public concerns about animal research. It is important
research commits us tohigh ethical standards and to explain ongoing needs for animal research in our
makes clear our position on specific areas of industry, our efforts to develop alternative methods,
concern. and the scientific limits of those alternatives.
We have a clear procedure for resolving any ethical At this time, using animals in the development of
dilemmas employees encounter during their work. drugsand technologies is necessary for scientific
Ifan issue cannot be resolved within the affected andlegal reasons. We would not be able to develop
team, employees can contact our Global Ethics life-saving medicines such as cancer drugs without
Liaison Office, which will consult peers and internal animal testing. We are committed to using animals
experts to find a solution. Any remaining concerns appropriately and responsibly, to complying with all
can be elevated to an internal committee, and finally applicable laws, and to meeting or exceeding industry
to our independent advisors, the Clinical Research standards. This commitment applies to all employees
Ethics Advisory Group (CREAG). We also provide and external contractors who perform animal testing
continual online ethics training for employees. In 2008 for us.
www.global-reports.com93
Breakdown of animals used in research | in 2008 us to enter new fields at a point whenthey are
already well enough developed for us to apply them
inour work, but soon enough for us todevelop a
Mice/rats 96.8% leading position.
Nanotechnology is the manipulation of materials on
ascale 80,000 times smaller than the diameter of a
human hair. It has potential in many areas, particularly
Dogs 0.2% innovative drug delivery. In 2008, we updated our
Rabbits and others 2.4% internal position on nanotechnology.
Primates 0.6%
We also explore other technologies that could
changethe way drugs work or are administered.
The total number of animals used in our research In2008 webought the American company Mirus
dropped by more than 4% in 2008. Of the animals our LLCto build on our work in ribonucleic acid inter-
researchers and contractors use in experiments, ference (RNAi) technology. RNAi has the potential to
97%are mice and rats. provide a new type of treatment for difficult-to-treat
diseases.
We introduced a 3Rs Award for Innovation and Con-
tinual Improvement in Animal Welfare within Roche We have begun trials, in partnership with Halozyme
in2008. The 3Rs concept means replacing animal Therapeutics, of drug formulations that allow medi-
tests where possible, reducing the number of animals cines previously administered by intravenous
required and refining existing scientific practices, injectionto be injected just under the skin. Recently,
animal welfare and husbandry. Twenty-four teams we also made exciting progress in the development
ofscientists and animal care specialists from our ofa new treatment for non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma.
research sites entered for awards in two categories. Following theacquisition of GlycArt Biotechnology,
wehave developed a compound with enhanced
In the scientific category, first place went to a project abilities to kill targeted cells.
for predicting bone marrow toxicity using artificial
environments and mathematical modelling, reducing We consider stem cell biology an important opportu-
the number of animals needed. The winning project nity, both as a research tool and as a potential novel
inthe lab care and animal management category therapeutic approach, particularly in the field of
involved special behavioural training for primates regenerative medicine. While we do not currently use
which allows researchers to interact with the animals human embryonic stem cells for either purpose, our
and help them get used to new environments, stem cell taskforce actively monitors and assesses
peopleand procedures, such as taking blood innovation in this area, particularly in the production
samples. We will implement these and other projects of stem cells from alternative sources. For example,
into our operations wherever possible. We will run we recently signed a cooperative research agreement
the3Rs award again in2009. to develop new technology using adult cells from fatty
tissue with the Zerbini Foundation at the São Paulo
Innovation and new technologies | We closely University Hospital Heart Institute.
monitor the development of evolving technologies,
such as nanotechnology, stem-cell research and In 2008 Roche joined a consortium of pharmaceu-
systems biology, to identify those with potential bene- ticalcompanies, biotechnology firms, and the UK
fits in pharmaceuticals or diagnostics. This will allow government that aims to advance the application of94
Roche Business Report 2008 Corporate Responsibility
stem cell technology to toxicology testing. This work
is taking place through an independent, not-for-
profitcompany called Stem Cells for Safer Medicines
(www.sc4sm.org), which provides guidance and
funding for research on stem cells suitable for toxicol-
ogy testing. We hope this initiative will help us gain
further insight into the role stem cells could play in
drug development, especially in assessing the safety
of new medicines, further reducing the need for
animal testing.
More on the web
• Sustainability principles, strategy and management:
www.roche.com/principles
• Stakeholder engagement:
www.roche.com/stakeholder_dialogue
• Responsible marketing, risk management and compliance:
www.roche.com/business_integrity_and_marketing_practices
www.roche.com/risk_management_and_compliance
• Patents, counterfeiting and biosimilars:
www.roche.com/medical_value_patents_and_pricing
www.roche.com/patents
• Innovation, new products and technologies:
www.roche.com/csr_research_and_development
www.roche.com/innovation_and_technologies
• List of all positions:
www.roche.com/policies._guidelines_and_positions
• Website for US businesses for pandemic planning:
www.pandemictoolkit.com
www.global-reports.com95
Patients
Our products and services provide vital benefits Global access to healthcare
tosociety and to patients across the healthcare We are committed to improving access to our
spectrum. Our diagnostic tests are used to screen for, products through a long-term strategy that includes
detect, diagnose, select treatment for and monitor improving reimbursement systems and advocating
disease. Our medicines can prevent and cure disease, greater patient access. The majority of healthcare
alleviate symptoms and hasten recovery. systems recognise the clear medical and economic
value of our products as a result of our engagement
Our primary role is to develop products with clear with them. For example, cancer drugs such as
medical benefits. We also have a responsibility to Herceptin and Xeloda can ease pressure on health-
helpimprove global access to our products, supply care budgets by delaying, reducing or preventing
safe medicines and reliable tests that give value for hospital visits, surgery and the need for palliative
money, provide factual information about our products, care. In many cases, they help patients return to
and carry out clinical trials ethically. Importantly, we workmore quickly.
must also understand and respond to patients’ views.
Patients can access our products through doctors,
The value of medicines and diagnostics hospitals, laboratories and pharmacies in roughly
Our unique approach to personalised healthcare 180countries, although the majority of our business
(PHC) helps us develop novel products that patients isin developed countries as they have more advanced
need and governments and regulators demand. PHC healthcare systems. Public health policy and standards
means tailoring treatments to patients to improve clin- of healthcare vary greatly, as does public awareness
ical outcomes. Our expertise in diagnostics gives us a ofthe causes, prevention and treatment of disease.
great competitive advantage, as we can use diagnos- The healthcare industry has an important role to play
tics to deepen our understanding of a disease, how in helping to raise standards, but we are just part of
medicines work and differences between patients. amuch bigger picture; there are many other systemic
This helps us develop better, safer drugs targeted at problems that prevent equal access to healthcare
the patients who will benefit most. This is not only globally.
good for the patient but will also appeal to payers and
regulators due to their greater efficacy and, hence, We work with governments, non-governmental
cost-effectiveness. organisations (NGOs), patient groups and healthcare
providers to tackle health inequalities, increase
We understand the tough decisions healthcare access to our products and provide sustainable
providers have to make. We employ experienced health healthcare.
economists that work in partnership with local health
authorities to address their specific needs regarding In 2008 we issued a position statement on access
access to medicines. These teams are involved in the tomedicines and diagnostics. This was developed
development process right up to a new drug reaching with input from a broad range of employees from both
the market. They liaise with local sales and marketing divisions and is designed to provide the information
teams, payers, clinicians and patients, perform market our stakeholders seek.
research to incorporate patient and payer perspectives
into development, and ensure that clinical trials are Access for those most in need | The world’s least
designed to demonstrate economic as well as health developed countries (LDCs) are hardest hit by
benefits. The information generated during clinical tri- disease and have the poorest healthcare systems to
als, along with evidence from research activities and deal with this burden. There are too few hospitals,
economic modeling, is used todemonstrate the total laboratories and healthcare professionals to meet
value of a product during its lifecycle. demand, and international aid focuses on AIDS,96
Roche Business Report 2008 Corporate Responsibility
tuberculosis and malaria. Public health policy has • We provide the Drugs for Neglected Diseases
limited local investment. initiative free access to our compounds and
knowledge for treating Chagas disease and
Our aim is to provide sustainable access to healthcare sleeping sickness
in poor countries through: • We developed HIV testing and drug formulations
• Fair patent and pricing policies for infants, a significantly neglected area identified
• Research and development by NGOs
• Partnerships with governments, NGOs and others • We provide diagnostics for the early detection
• Education, training and knowledge-transfer andmonitoring of HIV and tuberculosis
We do not file or enforce any patents in the least In 2008 we began a research collaboration with the
developed countries defined by the United Nations. Institute of OneWorld Health to increase R&D into
Inaddition, we do not file or enforce patentson neglected diseases. OneWorld Health will screen
ourantiretroviral drugs in any sub-Saharan African compounds from the Roche library to identify new
country, as this is the region most affected by drugs for treating acute diarrhea. Diarrhea kills
HIV/AIDS. approximately two million children in developing
countries each year and there are currently no
In 2008 we updated our position statement on effective drugs widely available.
pricingto include six guiding principles that apply
toboth divisions. As a result of this review, we are Our AIDS Technology Transfer Initiative (TTI) is
assessing the structure and feasibility of special another example of working with others to provide
pricing schemes to improve access to our products sustainable healthcare. Since 2006 we have shared
and services, especially in less affluent economies. the knowledge required to produce our HIV treatment
We continue to supply our antiretroviral therapies saquinavir with local manufacturers in the LDCs and
forHIV/AIDS at no-profit prices in all LDCs and sub-Saharan Africa, free of charge. Because we don’t
sub-Saharan Africa. This pricing policy covers enforce patents in these countries, the manufacturers
70%ofpeople with HIV globally. can freely produce a generic version of the drug,
increasing local supply. In early 2008, we signed
We also updated our position on R&D for neglected agreements with four manufacturers, bringing the
tropical disease in 2008. We focus our R&D on our total to ten. We also expanded the TTI to include
area of expertise — the search for differentiated and training seminars on good manufacturing practices,
innovative medicines for life-threatening diseases with the aim of improving the quality of all locally-
inareas of unmet medical need — as this is where produced essential medicines. The first two seminars
wecan make the most difference. These diseases took place in Tanzania and South Africa and were
include oncology, viral diseases such as hepatitis B attended by 56 delegates from 21 organisations. A
and C, diseases of the central nervous system participant from Bangladesh commented: ‘As far
likeAlzheimer’s, and diabetes, which is reaching asIam aware, Roche is the only company offering
epidemic proportions in developed and developing training seminars such as these.’
countries.
We announced an agreement with the Clinton Foun-
We have a long-standing commitment to addressing dation HIV/AIDS Initiative (CHAI) in February 2008.
the diagnosis and treatment of neglected diseases: We are providing dry blood spot tests, which are eas-
• We developed the antimalaria drugs Lariam and ily administered, stored and transported, at substan-
Fansidar, which are now off-patent and available tially reduced prices. These are used to diagnose HIV
for local generic production in children younger than 18 months. Fast, reliable
www.global-reports.com97
testing in infants is essential in the fight against ificneeds. We often work in partnership with govern-
HIV/AIDS, as children are more susceptible to ments to help establish processes, education and
disease and must start treatment as soon as possible. clinical trial programs. For example, we have estab-
This agreement aims to improve access to testing in lished a dedicated Medical Affairs Group to develop
sub-Saharan Africa, where roughly 90% of HIV- specific programmes targeted to individual emerging
infected children live. countries. We also supply our products to private
healthcare systems in these countries.
Since early 2007 we have offered Valcyte at a
substantially reduced price to the international NGOs We continue to supply our HIV medicines at reduced
treating AIDS-related CMV (cytomegalovirus). This prices in the low and lower-to-middle income coun-
discount is for exclusive use in AIDS patients in least tries defined by the World Bank.
developed countries and sub-Saharan Africa. It has
recently been extended to all low and lower middle Access in the developed world | We work closely
income countries, covering 88% of all people living with local payers to demonstrate thevalue of our
with HIV/AIDS worldwide. products and agree a level of reimbursement that
enables access. However, there arestill many people
In 2008 we facilitated an information exchange in developed countries who cannot afford healthcare
symposium in partnership with the PharmAccess or the insurance to pay for it. In the USA, where
Foundation. This was attended by 129 healthcare thereis currently no universal healthcare system,
professionals from 26 African and Asian countries, weprovide drugs at no charge to those in need
whoshared insights and best practices for HIV/AIDS through the Roche Patient Assistance Program (PAP).
management in lower-income countries. We also Roche set the standard for assisting patients in need
partnered with physicians from the Albert Einstein in the 1960s, becoming one of the first companies
College of Medicine to train over 200 Ethiopian inthe USA to establish a PAP. Since 2000, the pro-
doctors, nurses, clinical officers and final-year medical gramme has provided free drugs worth over 1 billion
students. USdollars. In 2008, 22,000 patients benefited from
the PAP. Wealso support the industry’s efforts
Our unique employee secondment policy enables toraise awareness of assistance programs available
Roche employees to use their skills and expertise, via the Partnership for Prescription Assistance.
primarily in the LDCs. Interested employees partner
with organisations that aim to prevent or manage Through its Genentech Access Solutions programme,
disease in the world’s poorest countries. In 2008 the company provides patients and healthcare
weapproved two new secondments. A communica- providers with coverage and reimbursement support,
tions manager from Roche Sweden was seconded to patient assistance and informational resources.
a project focused on the mental health of children Patient assistance support is for eligible patients in
traumatised by the AIDS crisis in Swaziland. An the United States who do not have insurance
information systems specialist from Roche Canada coverage or who cannot afford their out-of-pocket
began work with World Vision Canada on IT systems co-pay costs. Since 1985, when its first product
to helpimprove health and nutrition in Africa, wasapproved, Genentech has donated approximately
Asiaand South America. 1.3 billion U.S. Dollars in free medicine to uninsured
patients through its Genentech Access to Care Foun-
Access in emerging markets | Middle-income dation (GATCF) and other charitable programmes.
countries often require a different business model to In2008 GATCF helped approximately 16,000 new
developed markets. Each country’s healthcare system patients.
is at a different stage of development and has spec-98
Roche Business Report 2008 Corporate Responsibility
Examples of access programmes sion, diabetes, hepatitis, HIV/AIDS, influenza and
obesity. The website had more than 440,000 page
2008 2007 visits in 2008.
% of HIV-infected patients
living in countries eligible Patients globally can also access details of our
for no-profit medicines 71% 63% trialsin patients through the IFPMA clinical trials
% of HIV-infected patients portal at www.ifpma.org/clinicaltrials, and on the
living in countries eligible USANational Institutes of Health’s global registry
for reduced-price medicines 88% 86% atwww.clinicaltrials.gov. We are committed to
Patients benefiting from USA publishing our clinical trial data — good or bad —
patient assistance programmes 38,000+ 34,482 inreputable, peer-reviewed journals.
Clinical trials We collect the information gained through clinical
Clinical trials of new medicines not only demonstrate trials and post-marketing surveillance and feed
the safety and efficacy of a drug, but also provide thisback into the development program. We also
educational, financial and medical support forpartici- provide this information to regulatory authorities
pating hospitals and access to the latest treatments asrequired.
for cancer, arthritis and other serious diseases.
Patients taking part in trials receive freemedical We apply strict data protection principles to
treatment during and often after the trialuntil the all personal medical data collected during clinical
drug is available for sale or on prescription. trials,in line with our directive on the protection
Wedonot perform clinical trials in countries where ofpersonal data. These principles apply equally
wewill not seek marketing approval. todata about ourcustomers, suppliers and
employees.
Patients benefiting from clinical trials
Patient safety
2008 2007 Almost all medicines have side effects in some
Number of clinical trials 890+ 1,000+ patients. Our priority is to make certain that the bene-
Number of healthcare centres fits of taking the drug outweigh any undesirable
involved 13,600+ 17,000+ effects. We do all we can to reduce the likelihood
Number of patients in ofadverse events. We rigorously test, monitor and
phase I—IV clinical trials 235,420 201,752 analyse the effects of our products in all relevant
patient groups during development, and continue
Patients seeking new clinical trials to participate tomonitor them after launch.
inand people wishing to learn from the results of
completed trials can access this information on We investigate all reported adverse events to ascer-
www.roche-trials.com. The trial registry and results tain if they are related to our products. If there is a
database are hosted by a third party to ensure link, we re-evaluate whether the benefits of the drug
independence. still outweigh the risks. We also have robust proce-
dures in place to promptly inform patients, physicians,
As of 31 December 2008 the site contained details of healthcare providers and regulators of any new
574 pharmaceutical protocols, 27 diagnostic protocols product safety information.
and 216 trial results. These studies cover more than
70 conditions including Alzheimer’s disease, asthma, In 2007 we reported the recall of our HIV drug
around 25 cancers, cardiovascular disease, depres- Viracept following evidence of contamination with
www.global-reports.com99
thechemical ethyl methansulphonate. We began Also in 2008 we worked with the European Genetic
theprocess of establishing registers of patients who Alliances Network (EGAN) to produce a patient
tookthe drug during the affected time period so FAQand glossary on clinical trials. Patient representa-
wecould monitor and support those who may have tives provided questions that patients often ask, and
takencontaminated drugs. However, research we supplied answers to address them. The docu-
confirmed that there are no ill effects from taking ments aim to provide clear, straightforward informa-
affectedbatches of Viracept, and so the relevant tion aboutenrolling in a clinical trial, for example.
health authorities have told us that the registries EGAN has published the documents on its website,
arean unnecessary precaution. We made efforts to as has the Genetics Interest Group, which has
keep all those affected informed throughout the 140member organisations.
process.
A number of Roche companies have launched local
Patient advocacy initiatives to support patients and patient groups in
Patient groups are important partners for Roche. their country. For example, Roche Austria launched
Weshare an interest in helping patients under- the Lebens Hilfe (life rescue) fund to provide financial
standand manage their disease and gain access aid to cancer patients returning to regular life after
tothe information and treatment they need. beating their disease.
Weonlywork with patient groups on activities that
benefit thepatients the group represents. Our More on the web
policyis to betransparent about our activities and • Personalised Healthcare:
torespect theindependence of the patient orga- www.roche.com/phc_in_r_d
• Roche position statements on access to medicines and
nisation.
diagnostics, pricing, neglected diseases, and working with
patient groups:
In 2008 we revised our position statement and guide- www.roche.com/access_to_healthcare
lines for working with patient groups to adapt them www.roche.com/medical_value_patents_and_pricing
www.roche.com/roche_access_healthcare.pdf
tothe recently approved EFPIA Code. One major
• Programmes in LDCs: www.roche.com/
change is that we must publicly list all patient groups programmes_in_least_developed_and_developed_countries
we support financially, whereas we previously • Programmes in developed countries:
www.pparx.org
onlydisclosed those receiving 30,000 Swiss francs or
www.GenentechAccessSolutions.com
more. We will list all patient groups receiving financial
• Roche trials and patient safety:
sponsorship by March 2009. Patient groups we give www.roche-trials.com
non-financial support to must be publicly listed if www.roche.com/clinical_trials
www.roche.com/managing_medication_safety
thesupport is significant or meaningful, as guided
• Working with patients:
byEFPIA member associations.
www.roche.com/patient-groups
• EGAN website:
Also in 2008 we launched an internal database to www.egan.eu/publications/publications_and_presentations.htm
track patient group partnerships with Roche affiliates
in Western Europe. The database contains details of
the patient groups we work with, the funding given
each year, and individual projects worked on with
each group. It will provide a clearer understanding
ofour partnerships with patient groups and help us
share learning and experience. Once the database
isfully up and running in Western Europe, we plan
toroll it out to all regions.100
Roche Business Report 2008 Corporate Responsibility
People
‘People are a core factor in our business success — Employees (full-time equivalent, FTE)
we need people who are enthusiastic about their job by regions | 2008
and about their employer. This enthusiasm is infec-
tious; our customers pick up on it, helping to build
their trust in Roche.’ Other 1,634 (4.0%)
Wolfgang Troebs, General Manager of Roche Asia 13,065 (2.5%)
Diagnostics Switzerland
Latin America 4,988 (–0.4%)
Total employees (FTE)
2008
Number 80,080 North America 25,823 (4.3%)
Growth rate +1.88% Europe 34,570 (0.2%)
Growth related to acquisitions +1.01%
Employees by contract types (Headcount) Employees (FTE) by operating divisions | 2008
2008 Variance
Permanent 78,216 5.2% Other 535 (18.6%)
Temporary 2,184 –49.4% Genentech 11,029 (–0.3%)
Apprentices 931 20.1%
Full time 76,058 2.3% Chugai 6,590 (1.9%)
Part time 4,342 0.6%
Employer of choice
Roche is determined to remain an employer of choice. Diagnostics 25,404 (10.2%)
We seek to attract, recruit and retain the right Roche Pharmaceuticals 36,522 (–2.8%)
employees to drive the innovation on which our
business is built.
Talent management
Achieving this starts with our value proposition to At Roche, talent management helps us identify, recruit,
current and prospective employees. Under the slogan develop, lead and reward employees. Whilethe focus
‘Make your mark. Improve lives’, our employer brand is on identifying employees for key positions, talent
embodies what differentiates Roche from other management involves developing thepotential of all
employers. It presents us as a winning company offer- employees to help achieve ourgoals.
ing opportunities for professional and personal
growth in a collaborative and stimulating work envi- Our Corporate Executive Committee has identified
ronment. The new employer brand will be integrated talent management as the key people priority
in our 65 local career websites by the end of 2009. forRoche in 2009. We will drive and measure our
progress in the areas of: attraction, retention, per-
Our Group values and leadership competencies, formance management, compensation, succession
introduced in 2008, reinforce Roche’s principles management, and learning and development.
andthe work environment we seek to offer. In 2009,
these will be integrated into our talent management Attraction | Competition for talent around the world
processes. is fierce. The size of the global working-age popula-
www.global-reports.com101
Global standardized processes & systems Recruitment rate internal versus external | in 2008
Performance Talent
compensation management
External 65%
Internal 35%
Attraction
Leadership pipeline
Retention
Succession Learning and
management development
Career website opportunities (cumulative)
tion in developed countries is decreasing and talented 2008 2007 2006
people from emerging markets are increasingly Registered people
returning to their home countries. This shortage on the site 159,079 85,000 60,000
means that it is difficult to attract the right people. New employees
recruited 9,192 4,100 1,700
As an innovative, research-driven healthcare com- Internal moves 4,830 451
pany, Roche operates in an industry that can have
adirect benefit on the lives of millions of people In 2008 we introduced a standardised recruiting
worldwide. This aspect of our business can play a process that will be rolled out across the organisation
critical part in attracting and retaining the most in 2009. This enables Roche to drive quality and
motivated people. Our position as a leading multi- consistency in recruiting across our operations, and
national company, moreover, enables us to offer helps us hire candidates in line with our renewed
prospects in a growing industry with career oppor- values and leadership competencies.
tunities globally.
Overall, Roche had 9,192 new hires in 2008.
Our careers website remains our widest-reaching and
most effective tool for recruitment, with more than Retention | 2008 was a year characterised not only
10.6 million visitors in 2008. by acquisitions but also some significant optimisation
and restructuring initiatives. Our Pharma division
The global careers site enables prospective and cur- reduced their primary care sales force and optimised
rent employees to search for positions by role or by local operations such as finance, HR and other
region. Roche uses the application in 37 countries to headoffice functions. Manufacturing reorganisations
attract, source and hire candidates. In 2008 some were also initiated in Latin America and the United
4,800 employees used this system to move to differ- States, with voluntary severance plans offered in
ent positions within the Roche Group. thelatter. Overall, such optimisation and restructuring
initiatives accounted for 86% of employer-driven
Approximately 65 percent of our total new hires were movements.
sourced externally. We have a talent pool of some
160,000 prospective candidates who have registered When dealing with acquisitions and reorganizations,
their details on our careers site. we place an emphasis on our ability to retain valued102
Roche Business Report 2008 Corporate Responsibility
employees. Roche offers support measures such 16,050 employees in 41 countries — 36% of those
asrelocation, retention incentives and new career eligible — participated in Roche Connect, up from
orientation support. 15,300 in 2007.
Turnover Non-voting equity securities are awarded to man-
agers, based on their performance, through the
2008 Roche Long-Term Plan, which was introduced in 2005.
Total 9.9% A total of 3,300 of them took part in 2008, with 880
Europe 9.5% joining for the first time.
Latin America 14.3%
North America 10.4% In 2008 we moved from providing defined-benefit
Asia 8.1% plans — which pay out depending on a formula defined
Other 13.5% by employees’ salary, age at retirement and other
factors — to defined-contribution plans — which
Reasons for leaving payout according to contributions and subsequent
investments. Defined benefit plans are honoured
2008 foremployees already enrolled.
Employer-related 24%
Employee-related 56% We have a range of programmes to encourage our
Neutral 20% staff to look after their wellbeing. These include free
medical check-ups, workplace ergonomic evaluations
Compensation, benefits and wellbeing | The total and counselling. Healthy options are available at staff
compensation package — pay and benefits — we offer restaurants.
makes a significant contribution to attracting and
retaining talent within the Group. Equally important We offer part-time, flexi-time and home-working
are long-term job stability, development opportunities options where appropriate. Approximately 5.4% of
and a good working environment. employees work part-time and sabbaticals are
regularly arranged. Over the past year, Roche has
Salaries at Roche reflect employees’ contributions to introduced paternity leave in several countries and
the business. Pay rises and bonuses reflect business maternity leave is above the statutory minimum in
and personal performance — our ‘Pay for Performance’ several countries.
philosophy encapsulates this. Regular benchmarks
confirm that Roche offers competitive pensionand Performance and development | To help employees
benefits programmes to employees in most countries. achieve their full potential, we provide regular feed-
These usually supplement local socialsecurity pro- back on their performance and encourage them to
grammes and follow local market practices. discuss career goals and development opportunities
with their managers. In 2008 86% of our employees
The remuneration packages offered by local affiliates took part in performance management programmes
are aligned with our Group remuneration policy, and 57% in formal career development planning.
which was revised in 2004. In 2008 our total remu-
neration cost was 11.1 billion Swiss francs. Staff performance and development is not just an
employee responsibility but a management accounta-
Through our Roche Connect programme, employees bility. In 2008 performance management processes
in most countries can purchase Roche’s non-voting were reviewed to increase dialogue between man-
equity securities at up to a 20% discount. In 2008 agers and employees. Tight line management allows
www.global-reports.com103
us to differentiate between high and low performers Our secondment programme gives employees the
and give appropriate feedback to support employees’ chance to work in capability and healthcare building
professional growth. programmes in developing countries for between
three and 18 months. In 2008 two new secondments
Succession management | Strengthening our were approved.
talentpipeline is critical as we seekto maintain our
competitive success and continue to drive a culture Learning and development | Roche invested
ofinnovation. In 2008 weintroduced acorporate- 139million Swiss Francs in skills training and educa-
wide approach to talent management, enabling us tion in 2008 providing a total of approximately 2.4mil-
tonurture our high-potential employees. lion hours, or nearly 29 hours per employee.
Our talent framework provides us with a global Training includes technical skills programmes to
approach to identify, develop and guide high-poten- meetcompliance requirements, language courses,
tialemployees. The framework highlights talented interpersonal skills training, individual coaching and
individuals and provides access to a broad pool programmes on leadership and change management.
ofemployees that can take over key positions,
intheshort or long term. Most training courses are run by the Global Func-
tions/Business Areas or the individual affiliates and
Each step in the talent pipeline is supported by are tailored to meet local needs.
Group-wide development programmes. These pro-
grammes target the top 5% of our employees and Some Roche affiliates offer comprehensive appren-
amount to approximately 15% of total spending on ticeships. Roche normally offers apprentices several
learning and development. alternatives, including temporary assignments, addi-
tional time at university, or a one-year internship with
Development opportunities are also offered through the company. Over half of the apprentices are hired
international assignments, helping to distinguish by Roche when they finish their training. We currently
Roche as an attractive employer. have 931 apprentices working across the Group,
including 156 new apprentices in 2008.
In 2008 approximately 440 employees were on long-
or short-term international assignments in 50 coun- Diversity
tries. We want to ensure employees on international ‘Having worked in different parts of the globe, I have
assignments perform successfully in their new sur- experienced the value of diversity: it strengthens
roundings. In 2008 we introduced cultural awareness anorganisation through the richness of ideas and
courses to facilitate integration into the host country. opinions brought by people with different gender,
Interactive training that gives employees the tools to ethnic or cultural origins.’
understand the local culture from a social and busi- Pascal Soriot, Head of Commercial Operations
ness point of view were launched this year and will Pharmaceuticals Division
berolled out widely in 2009.
A diverse workforce is critical to the success of
We also established support programmes to help aglobal company like Roche. Other than visible char-
partners of employees on international assignments acteristics such as age, race and gender, diversity
integrate in their new country. These programmes comprises experience, competencies and mindset.
provide information about networks, clubs and other Webelieve that diversity promotes innovation, allows
social organisations, and career support to enable flexibility and inspires creativity to help Roche tackle
asuccessful job search. future challenges.104
Roche Business Report 2008 Corporate Responsibility
We do not tolerate any form of discrimination. Being a woman has never been a career barrier
Wefoster inclusion by integrating diversity into our to Vesna Cizej, Adriatic Management Centre Head
employee management systems. and General Manager of Slovenia. ‘We are all dif-
ferent. Intelligence is independent of race, gender
Diversity flourishes in an environment where it exists and geography,’ she says. ‘And it is this strength
and is acknowledged, is understood, valued and of talent, with these combined differences that
fostered, and is reflected in processes and structures. become the foundation for our success.’
We encourage employee diversity through formal Acknowledging diversity in Roche’s workforce
training such as our Diversity Management has allowed Vesna Cizej to adapt her leadership
Trainingprogramme and policies including the style to meet the needs of individual employees.
Prevention of Abuse of Power in the Workplace. She knows the importance of having an overall
Wealso embed inclusion into processes and vision for her team but communicating that vision
dailyactivities. requires fine-tuning. ‘You must be fully engaged
in communicating that vision to every person
In Basel, for example, we ensure diversity in the in ways that are meaningful and motivational
recruiting process through mixed gender interview to them,’ Vesna Cizej says.
panels. Ongoing improvements in family support and
flexible work arrangements ensure a constant high Ultimately, it’s all about what an employer offers
return rate from maternity leave. For example, we its staff that keeps them inspired. At Roche,
opened our second day care centre in 2008 and now this is the opportunity to be part of something
offer emergency day care support. important. ‘I can see where my contribution
is making a real difference to people’s lives.
The number of women in key positions at all levels This renews the passion and energy I have for
ofthe organisation continues to increase. In 2008, our my work,’ Vesna Cizej concludes.
Corporate Executive Committee welcomed its first
female member, Silvia Ayyoubi, Global Head of Human Roche represents 139 nationalities worldwide. At our
Resources. Women account for 46% of our total work- headquarters in Basel, more than half our employees
force. In 2008 37% of our managers and 8% of senior do not originate from Switzerland. In the Roche
managers (approximately the top 120 employees) affiliates, local nationals account for the majority of
were women, compared with 32% and 7%, respec- the workforce and for approximately 75% of their
tively, in the previous year. management teams. This helps to ensure that
ourGroup policies and work reflect the diversity
Gender diversity ofour global operations.
2008 2007 2006 Employee engagement
Women in total We communicate with our employees through features
workforce 46% 45% 45% on our intranet and in internal newsletters, through
Women in management 37% 32% 31%1 town hall meetings and employee magazines in various
Number (%) of women languages. Hexagon, a worldwide employee magazine,
in top 120 management 9 8 4 appears quarterly in eight languages. It is also avail-
positions (8%) (7%) (5%) able on the Roche intranet.
1 Restated due to a reporting error in 2006 Annual Report.
We hold face-to-face lunch meetings seven or eight
times a year where employees can meet members of
www.global-reports.com105
the Corporate Executive Committee and senior man-
agers, and ask questions. Employees from abroad
canattend through live webcasts.
Human rights
Roche has a comprehensive Employment policy,
which covers human rights as defined by the United
Nations. The Group Compliance Officer monitors this
policy throughout Roche and serves as a contact for
all employees. At the end of 2008 Roche was among
230 companies recognised by Realizing Rights and
Business and the Human Rights Resource Centre for
our public commitment to human rights.
Roche respects the right of employees to freedom
ofassociation and collective bargaining. More than
6,600 of our employees represent their colleagues
through unions memberships and over 26,160 are
members of organisations that freely represent them,
including the Roche Europe Forum (representing
ouremployees across 26 countries).
Our directive on the protection of personal data pro-
tects information about employees and complies with
the relevant local legislation. Where appropriate, we
have negotiated data privacy agreements between
different parts of the business or with works councils.
More on the web
• Employees:
www.roche.com/employees
• Group policies, positions and guidelines:
www.roche.com/policies._guidelines_and_positions
• Global careers portal:
http://careers.roche.com/
• Employment policy:
www.roche.com/employment_policy.pdf
• Core standards:
www.roche.com/commitments106
Roche Business Report 2008 Corporate Responsibility
Society
Supporting communities through corporate donations, Supporting the scientists of the future
sponsorship and employee volunteering extends Roche and its foundations — including the Fondation
beyond philanthropy: it promotes our science-based d’entreprise Roche in France, the Roche Foundation
industry and inspires our staff to help make Roche a in the US and the global Roche Organ Transplantation
successful, sustainable business and a committed Research Foundation — support research and edu-
corporate citizen. We focus on programmes that are cation programmes around the world to promote
aligned with our business model of innovation, advances in science, medical and scientific education,
sustainability, impact and collaboration. and to support young scientists. This encourages the
innovation on which our business depends and
Our business enables us to help those most in need nurtures the next generation of scientists we need
around the world and we promote sustainable access tosustain our success.
to our medicines and diagnostics. Drug donations
donot generally form part of our access strategy. Since 2007 we have offered a two-part Genetics
However, we donate medicines in disaster relief and Education Programme for educators in Switzerland
pandemic situations if they are of value. Forexample, and Germany, which combines genetics science
Roche Shanghai supplied more than 53,000 vials of theory education and practical laboratory exercises.
Rocephin, an antibiotic to treat infections, and The course raises awareness of the ethics and
provided funding for local Red Cross assistance policies relevant to genetics science and demon-
programmes in the wake of the Sichuan earthquake strates the science behind modern life-saving
inChina. medicines.
We do not publish detailed financial information In the US, Roche has been collaborating with science
regarding our community investment. Instead, we education leaders for 18 years to provide a two-day
measure the success of our support by the impact we workshop and resources on teaching bioethics for
have. For example, our Roche Children’s Walk has secondary school teachers. More than 1,500teachers
enabled 3,000 children from 60 villages in Malawi to have participated, challenging over 38,000students
receive hot meals, health check-ups and education with innovative approaches to contemporary science
atday centres,1,200 primary school children to learning.
benefit from eight new classrooms and 98 students
toattend secondary school. In partnership with the New Jersey Institute of Tech-
nology, Roche supports a one-day continuing educa-
A set of standards for communicating and measuring tion programme for primary and secondary teachers.
the impact of donations and non-commercial sponsor- The first session in 2008 engaged 130 teachers
ship are under development and will guide and align andprovided hands-on activities which addressed
best practice throughout the organisation. national standards on science and mathematics
education.
Community support in 2008 by area
In 2008 the Roche Research Foundation concluded
% of total itssponsorship activities. A new, distinct initiative was
Humanitarian and social projects 86% launched to promote young talent and research
Science and education 11% excellence globally. The international Roche Postdoc
Arts and culture 2% Fellowship programme aims to support outstanding
Community and environment 1% young scientists in cooperative research and devel-
opment projects between Roche and academic
institutions.
www.global-reports.com107
The programme will strengthen international scientific vision and materials needed to rebuild houses and
exchange and nurture the development of specialist local community buildings. We have also enabled the
knowledge, new ideas and creative talent. We have so construction of a dam that will aid economic and
far awarded 33 fellowships. In the next two years, we social recovery.
plan to award up to 100 in various scientific disciplines.
The Roche Children’s Walk (formerly the Global
Encouraging innovation in the arts Roche Employee AIDS Walk) extended its scope to all
Roche has been a patron of contemporary arts and vulnerable children in 2008. In 2008 14,000employ-
music since our inception. We believe that innovation ees from 100 sites walked around five kilometres each
in music and art is closely related to the scientific to raise an estimated 1,200,000 Swiss francs, includ-
innovation at the heart of our business. ing the amount matched by the company. While 35%
was contributed via company affiliates to local chil-
‘Roche Continents’ was launched in 2007 in collabora- dren’s charities, the balance was donated through
tion with the Salzburg Festival in Austria to encourage Re&Act to our long-term partners, the European
young people to explore contemporary classical music. Coalition of Positive People (www.ecpp.co.uk) and
In 2008 we invited a second group of 100 students UNICEF Switzerland, for their work in Malawi.
from 70 European universities to the festival. Partici-
pants attended a series of lectures and workshops on Roche has provided funding for the Phelophepa
creativity in art and science as well as concerts. Health Care Train since it began over 15 years ago.
Each year, this mobile clinic delivers health care to
Roche Commissionssponsors new musical works by more than 45,000 rural South Africans in some of
outstanding contemporary composers. In 2008 thecountry’s most remote areas, where there is
George Benjamin’s ‘Duet’ for Piano and Orchestra justone doctor for every 4,000 patients.
received its premiere and the next commission
wasawarded to Toshio Hosokawa. Roche also sponsors a number of initiatives that
encourage involvement in sciences, promote aware-
Supporting our communities ness of health issues and help address critical com-
Roche strives to make a difference in our local munity needs. Examples of these include:
communities. We encourage employees to identify • Brighton Science Festival in the UK — community-
local projects where we can make a valuable contri- based promotion of science in a creative, artistic
bution, and to make their own contribution through and novel way to people of all ages
volunteering or fundraising. • World Kidney Day — spreading the message that
kidney disease is common, harmful and treatable
Employee donations to diverse community projects • Roche Blue Bicycle Project in Turkey — a public
globally and disaster relief are coordinated by the awareness campaign for cancer
Roche Employee Action and Charity Trust (Re&Act), • The Heart Stopper challenge — raising funds for
set up in 2006 as an independent charitable Heart Children New Zealand
organisation. • Join Your Smile — an outreach programme for
localchildren and families suffering from poverty
For example, Roche employees supported emergency inArgentina.
relief efforts in Peru through Re&Act after a devastat-
ing earthquake in 2007. Since then we have continued More on the web
to support the long-term project to reconstruct the • Roche ’n’ Jazz: http://www.roche-n-jazz.net
destroyed village of Chocos. In continuing partnership • Re&Act: http://react.roche.com
with Re&Act, we provided skills, technical super-108
Roche Business Report 2008 Corporate Responsibility
Safety, security, health
and environmental protection
Safety, security, health and environmental protection In 2008 we held our global conference of SHE
(SHE) is integral to our business success. We take officers to ensure our Roche Corporate SHE Policy,
our responsibility in this area seriously throughout the Guidelines and the revised Guidance notes issued
lifecycle of our products. Our Corporate Principles in2008 are being implemented appropriately. The
and SHE Policy commit us to the highest standards conference also discussed progress towards our
ofSHE. In 2008 we invested 218 million Swiss francs corporate SHE goals.
in SHE infrastructure and 295 million Swiss francs in
SHE operating costs, including services and personnel. It is important for our employees to embrace our SHE
standards throughout the Group. Site-specific training
SHE management includes lectures and practical hands-on courses. In
Everyone at Roche is responsible for ensuring the 2008 38,905 employees took part in 111,870 hours of
health and safety of themselves and those around SHE training.
them, and for minimising the environmental impacts
ofour operations. We have a dedicated team of Handling chemicals is an inherent risk in pharmaceuti-
619full-time employees in the SHE departments cal and diagnostic research, development and manu-
across the Roche Group, including 30 people in the facturing. Employees who handle chemicals as part of
Corporate team, which coordinates SHE within their role are trained to use them appropriately and we
Roche. The Corporate Security Officer appointed havepublished safetydata sheets detailing theproper-
in2007 within the SHE function has built up a ties and the correct handling of over 1,000 specific
network of local security officers to coordinate chemicals.
security activities across the business.
Our three-yearly ECOmpetition encourages employ-
At local sites, we ensure the SHE policy and guide- ees to suggest innovative ways to reduce our environ-
lines are implemented appropriately through individ- mental impacts and our annual Responsible Care
ual site managers and SHE officers. ‘Eco-delegates’ Network Awards ask individual sites to come up with
working in the Diagnostics and Pharmaceuticals solutions to improve energy efficiency and make them
Divisions raise awareness of environmental issues more environmentally friendly. These initiatives have
among their colleagues. led to a number of innovative proposals being
implemented.
SHE risks are identified and assessed across our
businesses and affiliates, and listed in a web-based Health and safety
inventory. This enables us to evaluate risks and A safe and healthy workforce is essential to ensure
develop measures to mitigate them at Corporate employee wellbeing and productivity.
level.
Goal: Reduce the Roche Accident Rate by 20% by
We monitor our SHE policy through regular site 2010 to 0.079 from the 2005 baseline.
audits. In 2008 we audited 25 sites. No major defi-
ciencies were uncovered. Most findings related to The Roche Accident Rate (RAR) measures the
sites’ risk analysis of processes requiring updates, number of working days lost due to occupational
insufficient training on emergency management accidents per employee per year.
oroccupational hygiene assessments needing
updates. We use the audits to improve our SHE per- In 2008 our RAR was 0.078. This represents a 2.6%
formance. Recommendations are made to audited increase from 2007, excluding a fatal traffic accident
sites and their implementation is supervised by the that year. We still remain on track to achieve our
audit team. 2010goal.
www.global-reports.com109
Health and safety Performance: The environmental footprint of our busi-
ness is calculated on the basis of the ‘eco-balance’
2008 2007 2006 method designed by the Swiss Agency for the
Roche accident rate 0.078 0.076 0.083 Environment (BAFU). The eco-balance reflects the
Occupational total environmental impacts of our operations through
accidents 474 482 473 the use of resources (raw materials and energy) as
Occupational illnesses 270 311 302 well as the generation of emissions and waste.
Work-related fatalities 0 1 0
Work-related In 2008 our eco-balance was 4.95, an improvement
accidents per million of3.9% from 2007. This reflects the reductions
working hours 3.42 3.46 3.67 achieved across all environmental indicators, except
for nitrous oxide air emissions and particulates, which
The number of accidents associated with contractors have increased slightly this year. We are currently
increased to 148. Due to the reduced number of operating within our target eco-balance of 5.92 for
hours worked by contractors, the associated injury 2015. To maintain this level we recognise the need
frequency rate increased by 19.5%. Contractors work- tocontinuously cut resource use, and reduce the
ing on our premises are obliged to follow the same amount of waste and emissions we generate.
safety rules as our employees.
It is important to understand our environmental expen-
Cases of occupational illnesses in 2008 dropped diture in relation to sales because this allows us to
from311 to 270 and the number of lost days reduced quantify the environmental impacts of our operations.
from 1,335 to 602. Diseases of the musculo-skeletal We use this information to target our SHE investment
system accounted for more than two-thirds of in areas where we have the greatest impacts.
theselost work days.
Our ‘Eco-Efficiency Rate’ (EER) combines data on
We strive to reduce the number and severity of occu- energy use, waste, and emissions to air and water
pational accidents and illnesses. All incidents are with expenditure on environmental protection and
investigated and the relevant findings are communi- sales. A full explanation of the EER can be found
cated across the company. onour website. In 2008, our EER was 77.95 an
improvement of 16%.
Individual sites play a vital role in achieving the long-
term global SHE goals we set in 2005. In 2008 sites Eco-efficiency rate
followed up on action plans, which were developed
atthe SHE conference in September 2006, to help 2008 2007 2006
achieve the goals. The plans were assessed by Sales
Corporate SHE and the measures are continuously (in millions of CHF) 45,617 46,133 42,041
implemented. Environmental
expenditure
Environmental footprint (in millions of CHF) 209 232 255
We monitor our environmental footprint in research Environmental
and production, packaging, transport and distribution damage (in millions
during use and disposal. of environmental
damage units) 2.80 2.96 3.30
Goal: Improve total eco-balance by 10% by 2015 from EER 77.95 67.19 49.97
2005 baseline (points/employee).110
Roche Business Report 2008 Corporate Responsibility
Energy and climate change Greenhouse gas emissions relative to sales have
We aim to reduce energy use and emissions of green- increased this year to 23.28 tonnes per million Swiss
house gases such as carbon dioxide (CO ) from our francs of sales. This equates to a total decrease of
2
operations. approximately 54.8% since 2003, which exceeds our
10% reduction goal by the end of 2008.
Goal: Reduce total energy consumption by 10% by
2010 from 2005 baseline (GJ/employee) Greenhouse gas emissions | tonnes CO equivalent
2
Goal: Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 10% by
2008 from 2003 baseline (CO equivalent unit/sales) 2008 2007 2006
2
Total emissions 1,062,114 1,052,407 980,008
Performance: In 2008 Roche used 13,662 terajoules Total emissions
of energy, a decrease of 2 terajoules from the per million CHF
previous year. This is equivalent to 0.178 gigajoules of sales 23.28 22.81 23.31
per employee, a slight decrease from 2007.
Our Group strategy for decreasing greenhouse
Energy use | terajoules gasemissions is guided by our position paper on
Greenhouse Gases and Climate Change. The paper
2008 2007 2006 stresses the connection between CO emissions
2
Total energy use 13,662 13,664 12,467 andenergy use and we are implementing measures
Total energy use toreduce energy consumption and improve effi-
per million CHF of sales 0.299 0.296 0.297 ciency.
Total energy use
per employee 0.178 0.179 0.174 We believe allowing individual sites to develop
theirown emissions reduction strategies maximises
Emissions from our energy use together with other their efforts because they are the most familiar
greenhouse gas emissions totalled 1.06million tonnes withlocal conditions. Sites are guided by our Group
of CO equivalent in 2008, an absolute increase of 1% directive on energy conservation, which enforces
2
from 2007. This rise in emissions despite lower energy asystematic approach. It includes energy effi-
consumption is due to increased car and plane travel. ciencystandards onthe design of new equipment
and optimisation ofexisting energy consuming
items.
Energy use by type in 2008 | %
The directive requires site energy audits to be carried
Fuel used by 9.9 out. In 2008 we issued guidance to ensure a structured
company vehicles approach to these audits. They can be carried out by
Oil 1.7 third parties or by the sites themselves. We select sites
Fuel due to business 14.4 to be audited according to their circumstances and
air travel energy consumption. As a result, the audits may not
cover an entire site but may concentrate on a particular
Waste 0.9 system. We use the results to develop initiatives and
Grid electricity 29.0 goals to reduce future energy use.
District heating 3.9 One of the winning entries for the Roche Respon-
Renewable energy 0.5 sibleCare Network Awards in 2008 came from our
Natural gas 39.7 headquarters in Basel. By adjusting the site’s air
www.global-reports.com111
conditioning in IT rooms to a slightly higher tempera- Ozone depletion
ture and aslightly lower humidity, energy use has Halogenated hydrocarbons (such as CFCs and
been cut by12% with no increased risk of damage HCFCs) damage the ozone layer and affect the cli-
toour IT equipment. mate. Roche’s directive on phasing out CFCs and
HCFCs commits us to eliminate them from our
Some other entries shortlisted for the awards this coolingsystems and fire extinguishing systems
year include: by2010.
• Roche Carolina: an energy monitoring system
fordata collection and data analysis allows However, several projects to replace HCFCs in
thesitetomonitor, manage and optimise energy refrigeration units have been held up by the lack
use ofaccepted alternatives in some countries and
• Roche Burgdorf: a new heating system using wood reorganisation plans have put phasing-out projects
pellets rather than fossil fuels will cut CO emis- onhold at important sites. The target date to
2
sions by 94%, with 28% of total energy used eliminate these compounds has therefore been
beingrenewable extended.
• Roche Brussels: the new building includes special
sun shading to prevent offices getting too hot in HFCs (hydrofluorocarbons) and PFCs (perfluorinated
summer, use of rain water for toilet flushing and carbons), which are often used as replacements
energy efficient lighting in the car park toHCFCs and CFCs, do not affect the ozone layer.
However, they have considerable global warming
We encourage employees toconsolidate travel for potential and some are persistent in the atmosphere.
several destinations into one trip. We invest in video We do not consider them to be a suitable long-term
and teleconferencing facilities and where travel is alternative and we aim to phase out these com-
necessary, we promote the use oftrains, rather than poundsby 2015. Appropriate plans are in place and
flights. investment projects are being implemented to meet
this goal.
Changing the rules to invest in energy savings|
In 2008 the World Business Council for Sustainable Ozone-depleting chemicals | tonnes
Development (WBCSD) exemplified Roche in a case
study about our efforts to analyse the life-cycle 2008 2007 2006
costsand impact of energy efficiency investments. Halogenated
The WBCSD published the study to stimulate similar hydrocarbons
approaches in other companies. The paper highlights holdings 144.6 148.2 141.2
Roche’s innovative method for calculating the value Halogenated
ofenergy-efficiency investments. hydrocarbons
emissions 3.4 4.7 7.7
The WBCSD noted that converting the social,
environmental and economic benefits over time into Emissions to air
asingle financial figure that can be compared to Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and particulates
up-front costs is a valuable tool in promoting the contribute to air pollution and smog, and nitrogen
business case for investment in energy-efficiency. oxides (NO ) and sulphur dioxide (SO ) can
x 2
Through this initiative, ‘Roche has enabled managers contribute to acid rain. These emissions to air are
throughout the business to rigorously assess the included in our overall goal to reduce our total envi-
feasibility of energy efficiency investments and to ronmental impacts.
pursue these opportunities for value creation.’112
Roche Business Report 2008 Corporate Responsibility
Performance: In 2008 our manufacturing processes ment. If necessary, landfills are sustainably remedi-
and combustion plants emitted 213 tonnes of VOCs, ated. We have made approximately 160million Swiss
down 11.3% from 2007. This means we surpassed francs available for such purposes.
ourgoal to reduce VOC emissions by 10% per tonne
of unit sales from a 2003 baseline by 2008. Levels Waste | tonnes
ofparticulates, NO and SO continue to fluctuate
x 2
atalow level — with total emissions of 27tonnes, 2008 2007 2006
193tonnes and ten tonnes, respectively, in2008. General waste
produced 42,823 17,480 20,719
Emissions to air | tonnes General waste
per million CHF
2008 2007 2006 of sales 0.94 0.38 0.58
VOCs 213 240 281 Chemical waste
Particulates 27 25 27 produced 31,295 38,167 51,155
Nitrogen oxides 193 169 219 Chemical waste
Sulphur dioxide 10 12 15 per million CHF
of sales 0.69 0.83 1.21
Waste
Roche’s operations produce chemical waste that Water
needs to be disposed of safely. Clean water is integral to Roche’s manufacturing
processes. In 2008 we withdrew 21 million m3for
In 2008 our chemical waste amounted to thesepurposes from various sources, approximately
31,295tonnes. This 18.0% decrease from 2007 reflects the same amount as last year.
a smaller production volume. Incinerating this waste
isthe most responsible way to dispose of it, and the The Global Reporting Initiative defines water con-
majority (96.8%) was dealt with in this manner. sumption as the water used in products, cooling and
air conditioning, and irrigation. We increased our
Some waste streams originating from particular manu- consumption based on this definition by 4.3% from
facturing processes can be reused by other compa- 2007 to 2.4 million m3. We continually strive to reduce
nies. In 2008 we sold 4,940 tonnes of this waste. Our our water consumption globally.
recycled chemical waste amounted to 13,811 tonnes,
consisting mainly of solvents. Manufacturing processes often release contaminated
wastewater as a by-product. We treat wastewater
In 2008 we produced 42,823 tonnes of general waste, toensure it is safe for the environment and humans
145% more than the previous year. This considerable before we release it into watercourses. We aim to
increase was mainly due to construction waste from increase our capacity to treat wastewater as our
building activities at different sites counting for business continues to grow.
approximately 25,000 tonnes. We incinerated 12.1%
and sent 87.9% to landfill, mainly building rubble. The extension of the biotechnological production at
Werecycled 28,589 tonnes of general waste, Roche in Penzberg, for example, required increased
down9.8% from last year. capacity to treat wastewater. We installed an innova-
tive membrane technology that increases the capacity
Landfill sites containing chemical waste from our by 60% and requires less space and less energy than
premises are monitored regularly to make sure they the previous installations. This solution was a winning
do not pose a risk to human health or the environ- entry in this year’s Responsible Care Network Awards.
www.global-reports.com113
In 2008 we discharged 592 tonnes of organic Roche aims to minimise the release of pharmaceuti-
materialinto water courses after treatment, an 7.6% cals into the environment wherever possible. All our
decrease compared with 2007. Heavy metals such manufacturing sites are designed and operated to
aschromium, copper and zinc can be removed ensure that, as far as practicable, active pharmaceuti-
frompiping by wastewater. This year we released cal ingredients are not discharged into the waste-
545kilograms of heavy metals, a decrease of water.
9.9%compared to 2007.
We offer financial incentives to encourage retailers
Water and others in our value chain to return unused or out-
dated products. This ensures these are incinerated
2008 2007 2006 rather than disposed of in landfills. We promote new
Water withdrawn take-back programmes where they do not already
(million cubic metres) 21.0 21.0 22.1 exist.
Water used
(million cubic metres) 2.4 2.3 4.3 In 2008 Roche published a global position statement
Wastewater discharged on pharmaceuticals in the environment, outlining our
to treatment plant intentions to monitor risks to human health and the
(million cubic metres) 7.3 7.1 5.1 environment.
Organic matter
discharged to We acknowledge that long-term effects of pharma-
watercourses ceuticals in the environment need to be researched
after treatment (tonnes) 592 641 313 further. We participate in international and local
Heavy metals bodies dedicated to study the impact of trace chemi-
discharged to cals, including pharmaceuticals, in surface and
watercourses after groundwater.
treatment (kilograms) 545 605 1,086
Compliance and incidents
Pharmaceuticals in the environment Goal: Receive no significant SHE-related fines.
Concerns have been raised about traces of pharma-
ceutical active ingredients detected in the environ- Performance: No significant fines have been reported
ment. Current research shows that the quantities for 2008.
found in rivers, lakes and water supplies are generally
far below the level at which they would have a thera- The integrity of our business is compromised when
peutic or adverse effect on human health or aquatic we fail to comply with relevant legislation and regula-
life in watercourses. tions. Our Group policies often surpass local laws and
regulations but as a minimum Roche is committed to
Manufacturing processes and improper disposal of comply with local requirements.
unused medicines may lead to pharmaceuticals enter-
ing the environment but normal patient use is recog- Some substances, as well as biological materials,
nised as the main contributor. The risk of pharma- used in pharmaceutical manufacturing are regulated
ceuticals entering the environment is an important because there is potential for them to be misused,
element of our life-cycle approach to environmental forexample in the production of narcotics, toxins or
protection in product development. chemical weapons. We keep these substances in
small quantities, under rigorous control and in line
with all applicable legislation.114
Roche Business Report 2008 Corporate Responsibility
More on the web
• SHE performance:
www.roche.com/key_figures_and_facts
• Safety, security, health and environmental protection:
www.roche.com/environment
• Safety, security, health and environmental protection (SHE) policy:
www.roche.com/reporting_and_indices
• Group fact sheets, positions, policies and guidelines:
www.roche.com/policies._guidelines_and_positions
www.global-reports.com115
Independent Assurance Report
To the Corporate Sustainability Committee of The Roche Corporate Sustainability Committee is
Roche Holding Ltd, Basel (‘Roche’). responsible for both the subject matter and the
evaluation criteria. Our responsibility is to provide
We have performed assurance procedures to provide aconclusion on the subject matter based on our
assurance on the following aspects of the 2008 sus- assurance procedures in accordance with the Interna-
tainability reporting of Roche. tional Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE)
3000.
Subject matter
Data and information disclosed with the sustainability Main assurance procedures
reporting of Roche and its consolidated subsidiaries, Our assurance procedures included the following
excluding Chugai Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. and Genen- work:
tech Inc., for the year ended December 31, 2008 on • Evaluation of the application of group
the following aspects: guidelines| Reviewing the application of the
• The management and reporting processes with Roche internal sustainability reporting guidelines
respect to the sustainability reporting and to the • Site visits| Visiting selected sites of Roche’s
preparation of SHE and people key figures as Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions in
wellas the control environment in relation to the Switzerland, France, UK, Canada, Mexico and
data aggregation of these key figures Brazil. The selection was based on quantitative and
• The SHE key figures in the tables on the pages qualitative criteria; Interviewing personnel respon-
108 to 114 and some selected people key figures sible for internal reporting and data collection
disclosed on the pages 100 to 105 of the Roche atthe sites we visited and at the Group level
Business Report 2008 todetermine the understanding and application
ofthe guidelines
Criteria • Assessment of the key figures| Performing tests
• The Roche Group internal sustainability reporting ona sample basis of evidence supporting selected
guidelines based on the Responsible Care, Health, SHE and people key figures (Roche accident rate,
Safety and Environmental reporting guidelines pub- energy consumption, CO emissions related to
2
lished by the European Chemical Industry Council energy consumption, general wastes, use of water,
(CEFiC) and the ‘Sustainability Reporting Guide- fines inrelation to safety and environmental
lines G3’ published on October 2006 by the Global protection, headcount data, staff turnover, women
Reporting Initiative (GRI) in senior management positions and cost of
• The defined procedures by which the SHE and training) concerning completeness, accuracy,
people key figures are gathered, collated and adequacy andconsistency
aggregated internally • Review of the documentation and analysis
ofrelevant policies and basic principles|
Responsibility and methodology Reviewing the relevant documentation on a sample
The accuracy and completeness of sustainability indi- basis, including group sustainability policies,
cators are subject to inherent limitations given their management and reporting structures and
nature and methods for determining, calculating and documentation
estimating such data. Our Assurance should there- • Assessment of the processes and data
forebe read in connection with Roche’s internal consolidation| Reviewing the appropriateness
guidelines, definitions and procedures on the report- ofthe management and reporting processes for
ing of its sustainability performance. sustainability reporting
Assessing the consolidation process of data at the
Group level.116
Roche Business Report 2008 Independent Assurance Report
Conclusions The Global Reporting
In our opinion
Initiative sustainability
• The internal sustainability reporting guidelines are
being applied properly reporting guidelines
• The internal reporting system to collect and aggre-
gate the SHE and people key figures is functioning As in previous years we have once again aligned our
as designed and provides an appropriate basis sustainability reporting to the guidelines of the Global
forits disclosure Reporting Initiative (GRI).
Based on our work described in this report and the For the second time, Roche is of the opinion that
assessment of criteria, nothing has come to our theA+ level of the GRI G3 guidelines applies to its
attention that causes us to believe that the data and Annual Report 2008. This was checked with and
information mentioned in the subject matter and confirmed by the GRI.
disclosed with the Sustainability Reporting in the
Roche Business Report 2008 does not give a fair Details of how we report against each indicator can
picture of Roche’s performance. be found at www.roche.com/reporting_and_indices
Zurich, 23 January 2009
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG
Dr Thomas Scheiwiller Juerg Hutter
Severin Schwan
www.global-reports.comPublished by Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd statements
4070 Basel, Switzerland This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking state-
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 11 11 ments. These forward-looking statements may be identified
Fax +41 (0)61 691 93 91 by words such as ‘believes’, ‘expects’, ‘anticipates’, ‘projects’,
‘intends’, ‘should’, ‘seeks’, ‘estimates’, ‘future’ or similar
expressions or by discussion of, among other things,
Media Office
strategy, goals, plans or intentions. Various factors may
Corporate Communications
causeactual results to differ materially in the future from
4070 Basel, Switzerland
those reflected in forward-looking statements contained
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 88 88 inthis Annual Report, among others: (1) pricing and product
Fax +41 (0)61 688 27 75 initiatives of competitors; (2)legislative and regulatory
developments and economic conditions; (3) delay or inability
Investor Relations in obtaining regulatory approvals or bringing products to
market; (4) fluctuations in currency exchange rates and
4070 Basel, Switzerland
general financial market conditions; (5)uncertainties in the
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 88 80
discovery, development or marketing of new products or
Fax +41 (0)61 691 00 14
new uses of existing products, including without limitation
negative results of clinical trials or research projects,
World Wide Web unexpected side effects of pipeline or marketed products;
www.roche.com (6) increased government pricing pressures; (7) interrup-
tions inproduction; (8) loss ofor inability to obtain adequate
Corporate Sustainability Committee protection for intellectual property rights; (9) litigation;
(10)loss of key executives orother employees; and (11)
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 40 18
adverse publicity and news coverage.
E-mail: Corporate.sustainability@roche.com
The statement regarding earnings per share growth is not
To order publications
aprofit forecast and should not be interpreted to mean
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 83 39 thatRoche’s earnings or earnings per share for 2008 or any
Fax +41 (0)61 688 43 43 subsequent period will necessarily match or exceed the
E-mail: basel.webmaster@roche.com historical published earnings or earnings per share of Roche.
All trademarks mentioned enjoy legal protection.
Next Annual General Meeting:
10 March 2009
The Roche Annual Report is published in German and
English.
Printed on non-chlorine bleached, FSC-certified paper.
The Roche Annual Report is issued by
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Basel, Corporate Communications.Pharmaceuticals pipeline |
The
Pharmaceuticals Division’s R&D activities
are focused on creating clinically differen-
tiated medicines. In 2008 the division
continued to build the value of its research
and development portfolio.Twelve major
phase III projects were initiated, including
clinical trials of the novel compounds
pertuzumab, taspoglutide and dalcetrapib.
www.global-reports.comR&D pipeline Pharma Partnering
In 2008 the Pharmaceuticals Division filed 11 major Licensing and targeted acquisitions play an impor-
new marketing applications and gained 13 major tantrole in strengthening Roche’s R&D portfolio and
regulatory approvals. At the beginning of 2009 the expanding the company’s technology capabilities. In
division’s R&D pipeline comprised 120 clinical 2008 Roche Pharmaceuticals signed a total of 57new
projects, including 62 new molecular entities (NMEs) agreements, including seven product transactions
and 58 additional indications. Forty NMEs are and43 research and technology collaborations.
currently in phase I,16 in phase II and six inphase III
or filed for regulatory review. In May Roche acquired Piramed Limited, a UK
company with therapeutic research programmes
Roche Pharmaceuticals — 100 research projects targeting the PI3-kinase pathway in oncology
in major therapeutic areas | January 2009 andinflammatory disease. In June Roche consolidated
its leading position in the antiangiogenesis field
through a licensing agreement with ThromboGenics
Central nervous 23 and BioInvent for their jointly developed anticancer
system diseases agent TB-403 (R7334). The acquisition of Mirus
Cardiovascular and 21 BioCorporation (now Roche Madison Inc.) in Sep-
metabolic diseases tember enables Roche to further advance its research
in the field of ribonucleic acid interference (RNAi)
delivery.
Viral diseases 7
Oncology 21 In September Roche completed the acquisition
Inflammatory and 28 ofARIUS Research Inc., which has a proprietary
autoimmune diseases antibody platform that rapidly identifies and
selectsantibodies based on their functional ability
toaffect disease. Following a merger agreement
Roche Pharmaceuticals currently has 100 projects andsuccessful tender offer, in January 2009 Roche
inpreclinical research across five therapeutic areas acquired US-based Memory Pharmaceuticals,
and 84 development projects in five therapeutic areas, whichdevelops innovative drug candidates for the
including five in phase 0 (transition from preclinical treatment of debilitating central nervous system
toclinical development). disorders such as Alzheimer’s disease and schizo-
phrenia. Memory’s nicotinic alpha-7 agonist
In 2008 twelve Roche-managed projects were drugcandidates in these disease areas were already
terminated: six in phase I, four in phase II andtwo in partnered programmes with Roche.
inphase III. Two of these projects reverted to
ourR&D partners, and decisions were taken
tooutlicense another two.
QuarterlyPharmaceuticals pipelineupdates are
posted at www.roche.com/pipelinePharmaceuticals pipeline
Building value and opportunities for growth
Project ID Project/product Pharmacological class Indication Phase Partner
(generic name)
Oncology
(cid:2) R105 MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody chronic lymphocytic leukemia (1st line) filed EU Genentech and
Biogen Idec
(cid:2) R105 MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody chronic lymphocytic leukemia, relapsed filed EU Genentech and
Biogen Idec
(cid:2) R340 Xeloda (capecitabine) fluoropyrimidine metastatic colorectal cancer (1st line) — combo approved
EU,
filed US
(cid:2) R340 Xeloda (capecitabine) fluoropyrimidine metastatic colorectal cancer (2nd line) — combo approved
EU,
filed US
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody renal cell carcinoma approved Genentech
EU,
filed US
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody metastatic breast cancer (1st line) — filed EU Genentech
combo docetaxel
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody glioblastoma multiforme (relapsed) filed US, Genentech
EU
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with II, Genentech
previously treated CNS metastases filed EU
(cid:2) R435 + Avastin+Herceptin anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody metastatic breast cancer (1st line) — III Genentech
(cid:2) R597 (bevacizumab+trastuzumab) + anti-HER2 monoclonal HER2-positive
antibody
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody ovarian cancer (1st line) III Genentech
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody prostate cancer, hormone-refractory III Genentech
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody metastatic breast cancer (1st line) — III Genentech
combo standard chemotherapies
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody metastatic gastric cancer III Genentech
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody adjuvant colon cancer III Genentech
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody adjuvant NSCLC III Genentech
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody adjuvant breast cancer, HER2-negative III Genentech
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody adjuvant breast cancer, HER2-positive III Genentech
(cid:2) R435 + Avastin+MabThera/Rituxan anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody aggressive non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma III Genentech
(cid:2) R105 (bevacizumab+rituximab) + anti-CD20 monoclonal
antibody
(cid:2) R597 Herceptin (trastuzumab) anti-HER2 monoclonal antibody gastric cancer, HER2-positive III
(cid:2) R105 MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody indolent non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma — III Genentech and
maintenance (1st line) Biogen Idec
(cid:2) R1415 Tarceva (erlotinib) EGFR inhibitor NSCLC (1st line) — maintenance III Genentech and
OSI Pharmaceuticals
(cid:2) R1415 Tarceva (erlotinib) EGFR inhibitor adjuvant NSCLC III Genentech and
OSI Pharmaceuticals
(cid:2) R435 + Avastin+Tarceva Anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody NSCLC (1st line) — maintenance III Genentech and
(cid:2) R1415 (bevacizumab+erlotinib) + EGFR inhibitor OSI Pharmaceuticals
(cid:2) R340 Xeloda (capecitabine) fluoropyrimidine adjuvant breast cancer III
(cid:2) R340 Xeloda (capecitabine) fluoropyrimidine adjuvant colon cancer — combo oxaliplatin III
(cid:2) R340 Xeloda (capecitabine) fluoropyrimidine adjuvant colon cancer — combo Avastin III
(cid:2) R1273 (pertuzumab) HER2 dimerisation inhibitor metastatic breast cancer, HER2-positive (1st line) III Genentech
(cid:2) R1273 (pertuzumab) HER2 dimerisation inhibitor neoadjuvant breast cancer, HER2-positive II Genentech
(cid:2) R1273 (pertuzumab) HER2 dimerisation inhibitor ovarian cancer II Genentech
(cid:2) R3502 Trastuzumab-DM1 anti-HER2 monoclonal metastatic breast cancer, HER2-positive II Genentech
antibody–cytotoxic conjugate
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody NSCLC, squamous II Genentech
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody glioblastoma multiforme (1st line) II Genentech
(cid:2) R1415 + Tarceva+Avastin EGFR inhibitor + anti-VEGF NSCLC (1st line) II Genentech
(cid:2) R435 (erlotinib+bevacizumab) monoclonal antibody
(cid:2) R1507 anti-IGF1R monoclonal antibody Ewing’s sarcoma II Genmab
(cid:2) R1507 anti-IGF1R monoclonal antibody metastatic breast cancer II Genmab
(cid:2) R1507 anti-IGF1R monoclonal antibody NSCLC II Genmab
(cid:2) R7159 3rd-generation anti-CD20 non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma II GlycArt1(GA101)
antibody
(cid:2) R3616 hedgehog pathway inhibitor cancer II Genentech
(cid:2) R4733 solid tumours I
(cid:2) R7204 B-Raf kinase inhibitor malignant melanoma I Plexxikon
(cid:2) R7112 MDM2 antagonist cancer I
(cid:2) R7160 solid tumours I GlycArt1(GA201)
(cid:2) R7167 solid tumors I Chugai
(cid:2) R7304 solid tumors I Chugai
(cid:2) R7347 solid tumors I Genentech
(cid:2) R7334 anti-PlGF huMAb solid tumors I ThromboGenics/
BioInvent (TB403)
1 GlycArt is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Roche.
www.global-reports.comProject ID Project/product Pharmacological class Indication Phase Partner
(generic name)
Inflammatory and autoimmune diseases
(cid:2) R1569 Actemra (tocilizumab) humanised anti-IL-6 receptor rheumatoid arthritis filed US, Chugai
monoclonal antibody approved
Jpn, EU
(cid:2) R1569 Actemra (tocilizumab) humanised anti-IL-6 receptor systemic onset juvenile idiopathic arthritis III, Chugai
monoclonal antibody approved
Jpn
(cid:2) R105 MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody rheumatoid arthritis, DMARD inadequate III, Genentech and
responders filed US Biogen Idec
(cid:2) R1594 (ocrelizumab) humanised anti-CD20 rheumatoid arthritis III Genentech
monoclonal antibody
(cid:2) R1594 (ocrelizumab) humanised anti-CD20 lupus nephritis III Genentech
monoclonal antibody
(cid:2) R99 CellCept IMPDH inhibitor pemphigus vulgaris III Aspreva
(mycophenolate mofetil)
(cid:2) R667 nuclear receptor agonist emphysema II
(cid:2) R3477 S1P1 receptor agonist autoimmune diseases I Actelion
(cid:2) R7103 chronic obstructive pulmonary disease I
(cid:2) R1671 asthma I
(cid:2) R4930 OX40L huMAb asthma I Genentech
Cardiovascular and metabolic diseases
(cid:2) R1583 (taspoglutide) GLP-1 analogue type 2 diabetes III Ipsen (BIM51077)
(cid:2) R1658 (dalcetrapib) CETP inhibitor dyslipidemia III Japan Tobacco
(JTT-705)
(cid:2) R1439 (aleglitazar) dual PPAR agonist cardiovascular risk reduction II
(cid:2) R7201 type 2 diabetes I Chugai
(cid:2) R1511 glucokinase activator type 2 diabetes I
(cid:2) R7089 type 2 diabetes I
(cid:2) R4929 type 2 diabetes I
(cid:2) R7234 type 2 diabetes I
(cid:2) R1512 peripheral vascular disease I Genmab
(cid:2) R7232 dyslipidemia I
(cid:2) R7376 polycystic kidney disease I Plexxikon (PLX5568)
Viral and other infectious diseases
(cid:2) R127 Valcyte (valganciclovir) inhibitor of CMV replication cytomegalovirus, extension of treatment III
(cid:3) R3484 HPV16 vaccine cervical neoplasia II Transgene (TG4001)
(cid:2) R7128 polymerase inhibitor hepatitis C I Pharmasset
(cid:2) R7227 protease inhibitor hepatitis C I InterMune
(ITMN-191)
Central nervous system
(cid:2) R1594 (ocrelizumab) humanised anti-CD20 relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis II Genentech
monoclonal antibody
(cid:2) R1678 GlyT1 inhibitor schizophrenia II
(cid:2) R3487 nicotinic alpha7 receptor Alzheimer’s disease, schizophrenia II Memory2(MEM3454)
agonist
(cid:2) R1450 anti-amyloid β-peptide Alzheimer’s disease I Morphosys
antibody
(cid:2) R1646 pain I
(cid:2) R4996 nicotinic alpha7 receptor Alzheimer’s disease I Memory2
agonist (MEM63908)
(cid:2) R1578 Alzheimer’s disease I
Opt-in opportunities
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody gastrointestinal stromal tumour III Genentech
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody adjuvant rectal cancer III Genentech
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody metastatic breast cancer (2nd line) III Genentech
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody metastatic HER2-negative breast cancer, III Genentech
combo hormonal therapy
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody high risk carcinoid III Genentech
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody metastatic head and neck cancer III Genentech
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody ovarian cancer (2nd line) III Genentech
(cid:2) R105 MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody lupus nephritis III Genentech
(cid:2) R105 MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody ANCA-associated vasculitis III Genentech
2 Memory Pharmaceuticals was acquired by Roche in January 2009.Project ID Project/product Pharmacological class Indication Phase Partner
(generic name)
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma II Genentech
(cid:2) R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody extensive small-cell lung cancer II Genentech
(cid:2) Anti-CD40 (dacetuzumab) anti-CD40 monoclonal antibody diffuse large B cell lymphoma II Genentech and
Seattle Genetics
(cid:2) APO2L/TRAIL cancer II Genentech
(cid:2) Apomab non-small cell lung cancer, non-Hodgkin’s II Genentech
lymphoma
(cid:2) ARQ501 cancer II ArQule
(cid:2) Anti-CD40 (dacetuzumab) anti-CD40 monoclonal antibody diffuse large B cell lymphoma, non-Hodgkin’s I Genentech and
lymphoma, multiple myeloma Seattle Genetics
(cid:2) Apomab colorectal cancer I Genentech
(cid:2) MEK inhibitor cancer I Genentech
(cid:2) IAP antagonist cancer I Genentech
(cid:2) 3rd-generation anti-CD20 hematologic malignancies I Genentech
antibody
(cid:2) anti-cMet cancer I Genentech
(cid:2) PI3K alpha PI3 kinase inhibitor cancer I Genentech
(cid:2) TP300 colorectal cancer I Chugai
(cid:2) Anti-IL13 Anti-IL13 asthma II Genentech
(cid:2) anti-IFN alfa systemic lupus erythematosus I Genentech
(cid:2) VAP-1 inflammatory diseases I BioTie
(cid:2) Anti-oxLDL Anti-oxLDL secondary prevention of cardiovascular events I Genentech
(cid:2) NA808 hepatitis C I Chugai
(cid:2) rhuMAb rhuMAb Beta7 ulcerative colitis I Genentech
Beta7
(cid:2) Anti-CD4 Anti-CD4 rheumatoid arthritis I Genentech
(cid:2) Anti-Abeta Anti-Abeta Alzheimer’s disease I Genentech
Participation through Chugai
(cid:2) EPOCH Epogin (epoetin beta) chemotherapy-induced anemia III
(cid:2) ED-71 activated vitamin D derivative osteoporosis III
(cid:2) GM-611 (mitemcinal fumarate) motilin agonist gastroparesis, irritable bowel syndrome II
Participation through Genentech
(cid:2) Lucentis (ranibizumab) antibody fragment to VEGF diabetic macular edema III
(cid:2) Lucentis (ranibizumab) antibody fragment to VEGF retinal vein occlusion III
(cid:2) TNKase (tenecteplase) thrombolytic agent catheter clearance III
(cid:2) Xolair (omalizumab) anti-IgE antibody pediatric asthma Filed US Novartis
(cid:2) Raptiva (efalizumab) humanised anti-CD11a renal transplant II Merck Serono
monoclonal antibody
(cid:2) ABT-869 solid tumours II Abbott
(cid:2) ABT-263 solid tumours and hematologic malignancies I Abbott
At the beginning of 2009 the division’s R&D pipeline comprised 120 clinical projects, including 62 new molecular entities (NMEs) and 58 additional indications.
Forty NMEs are currently in phase I, 16 in phase II and six in phase III or filed for regulatory review.
(cid:2) Therapeutic protein First indication Blue type Phase I Initial studies in healthy volunteers and possibly in patients
(cid:2) Small molecule Additional indications Black type Phase II Efficacy, tolerability and dose-finding studies in patients
(cid:2) Peptide Current as of January 2009 Phase IIILarge-scale studies in patients for statistical confirmation of safety
(cid:3) Therapeutic vaccine and efficacy
(cid:2) Antibody fragment
www.global-reports.comDiagnostics pipeline |
Roche’s
Diagnostics Division is working to raise
its R&D productivity, further increase
the percentage of young products in
its portfolio and launch new tests of
high medical value.The division’s R&D
spending (nearly 10% of sales in 2008)
is a measure of its determination.
The launches listed here are a measure
of its success.Product launches
in the Diagnostics Division
Major product launches in 2008
Business area Product
Professional Diagnostics Additional cobas 6000 configurations to suit a wider range of laboratory workloads (cobas <501|6012>
EU,US; cobas<6012>EU)
cobas c 311 clinical chemistry analyser, completing the cobas 4000 series of Serum Work Area
instruments forsmall- tomedium-workload laboratories (ex US)
Accu-Chek Inform II: first wireless hospital blood glucose meter (ex US)
Elecsys anti-HCV immunoassay for hepatitis C infection (EU)
Elecsys anti-CCP (anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide antibody) assay for the diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis
(EU)
Elecsys anti-TSHR (anti-thyroid stimulating hormone receptor) assay for the diagnosis of Graves’ disease
(EU,US)
Brahms Procalcitonin assay to aid the early detection and monitoring of sepsis (selected EU markets)
Elecsys anti-CMV IgG and anti-CMV IgM assays for the detection of cytomegalovirus infection (EU)
Roche Cystatin C Test: clinical chemistry test for early detection of impaired kidney function (EU)
Elecsys Toxo IgG immunoassay for detecting acute and latent infection with the parasite Toxoplasma gondii
(US)
Second-generation Elecsys NT proBNP immunoassay for use as an aid in diagnosing heart failure and
assessing risk in patients with stable coronary artery disease (EU, US)
Diabetes Care Accu Chek Compact Plus blood glucose monitor with built-in lancing device and test strip drum
(US, Asia—Pacific, Japan)
Molecular Diagnostics Cobas AmpliPrep/Cobas TaqMan HCV Test: fully automated, real-time PCR test for monitoring hepatitis C
viralload (US)
Cobas TaqMan HBV Test: automated, real-time PCR test for monitoring hepatitis B viral load (US)
cobas TaqScreen MPX Test: detects multiple viral pathogens (HIV-1 groups M and O, HIV-2, hepatitis B
and hepatitis C) inasingle fully automated assay (US, Japan)
Cobas TaqMan 48 TB Test: automated, real-time PCR test for tuberculosis (EU)
Cobas TaqMan CT Test v2.0: next-generation automated, real-time PCR test for Chlamydia trachomatis
(EU)
Cobas AmpliPrep/Cobas TaqMan HIV-1 Test v2.0: next-generation fully automated, real-time PCR test for
monitoring HIV viral load (EU)
Cobas AmpliPrep/Cobas TaqMan HBV Test v2.0: next-generation fully automated, real-time PCR test for
monitoring HBV viral load (EU)
TheraScreen K-RAS mutation test to aid doctors in determining patients’ suitability for certain cancer
therapies (EU)
Applied Science Titanium series software and reagents for the Genome Sequencer FLX (worldwide)
LightCycler 480 System II: enhanced platform for real-time PCR detection and analysis (worldwide)
NimbleGen SeqCap arrays: microarrays enabling preparation of targeted genomic regions as samples for
DNA sequencing (worldwide)
xCELLigence system (single- and multi-plate versions): enables non-invasive, real-time analysis of cellular
events (worldwide)
MagNA Pure LC 2.0: enhanced automated system for PCR sample preparation (worldwide)
NimbleGen CGH HD2 arrays: next generation of high-density, high-throughput microarrays for comparative
genomic analysis (worldwide)
Tissue Diagnostics Vantage workflow optimisation and instrument integration software for anatomical pathology laboratories
(US)
BenchMark Ultra advanced staining system with continuous and random processing and STAT capabilities
(US, Canada, EU)
Ten new CONFIRM antibodies for immunohistochemcial staining/monitoring of major cancers
(US, Canada, Japan, major EU markets)
www.global-reports.comMajor product launches scheduled for 2009
Business area Product
Professional Diagnostics cobas 8000 analyser series: next-generation modular Serum Work Area instruments for high-volume
laboratories. Series includes two clinical chemistry and two immunoassay analysers and will offer a choice
of34 configurations (EU, other selected key markets)
cobas b 123: benchtop multiparameter analyser (blood gas, electrolytes, CO-oximetry and metabolites)
foruse at the point of care (worldwide)
Sysmex XT-4000i: new-generation automated hematology analyser with test capabilities for additional
body fluids (contractual territory in EMEA)
cobas academy: e-learning platform that delivers customised user training and certification courses for
several point-of-care instruments (worldwide)
cobas e-LabPerformance: portal for online benchmarking of laboratory results obtained with Serum Work
Area analysers (worldwide)
cobas p 501 and cobas p 701 automated storage and retrieval modules for bar-coded primary and
secondary sample tubes (worldwide)
Novel Elecsys immunoassays for PlGF (placenta growth factor) and SFlt1 (soluble fms-like tyrosine
kinase1) for the diagnosis of preeclampsia (EU)
Elecsys IL-6 (interleukin-6) immunoassay to aid the management of critically ill patients (EU)
High-sensitivity Elecsys Troponin T immunoassay for the diagnosis of heart attack and cardiac risk stratifi-
cation (EU, US)
Elecsys Troponin I Assay: test for cardiac-specific troponin I levels to predict mortality risk in patients with
acute coronary syndromes (EU)
CRP Gen. 3: next-generation clinical chemistry reagent for the inflammation marker C-reactive protein
(EU)
Clinical chemistry drug monitoring reagents for amphetamines and benzodiazepines (EU, US)
D-Dimer Gen.2: second-generation clinical chemistry test to exclude deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary
embolism (worldwide)
Diabetes Care Accu-Chek Mobile: integrated lancing and blood glucose monitoring device employing a unique ‘no strip’
technology that replaces single-use test strips with a continuous tape of 50 tests (EU)
Accu-Chek Aviva Nano and Accu-Chek Performa Nano: sleeker versions of the Accu-Chek Aviva
andAccu-Chek Performa meters offering an enhanced feature set (Accu-Chek Aviva Nano EU, US;
Accu-Chek Performa Nano EU)
Accu-Chek Active: new version of an existing meter, featuring an extended test memory and a number
of fail-safe capabilities (EU)
Accu-Chek Combo: diabetes management system combining an insulin pump with a glucose meter that
also functions as a pump remote control (EU, US)
Molecular Diagnostics cobas 4800 platform for automated DNA extraction and real-time PCR amplification and detection;
withtests for human papillomavirus and Chlamydia trachomatis/Neisseria gonorrhoeae(EU)
MRSA Advanced Test: real-time PCR-based test for methicillin-resistant Stapholococcus aureus(US, EU)
TheraScreen EGFR 29 mutation test to aid doctors in determining patients’ suitability for certain cancer
therapies (EU)
Cobas TaqMan MAI Test: automated real-time PCR test for Mycobacterium avium intracellulareinfection
(Japan)
AmpliChip CYP450 Test for comprehensive microarray-based detection of variations in the cytochrome
P450 2D6 and 2C19 genes (Japan)
Applied Science New Titanium kit (software and reagents) for enhanced resequencing of PCR-amplified DNA with the
Genome Sequencer FLX (worldwide)
MagNa Pure 96 high-throughput system for preparing nucleic acid samples (worldwide)
MS 200 high-resolution microarray scanner for use with NimbleGen HD2 high-density microarrays
(worldwide)
Tissue Diagnostics BenchMark Ultra advanced staining system with continuous and random processing and STAT capabilities
(additional European markets, Latin America, Australia, Japan)
BenchMark XT advanced staining instrument (Latin America, Asia—Pacific)
Symphony primary staining instrument (major EU markets, Australia)
Vantage workflow optimisation and instrument integration software for anatomical pathology laboratories
(major European markets, Australia)
Immunohistochemistry probes for assessing the status of the Met and EGFR oncogenes in cancer patients
(launches for clinical use in EU, Asia—Pacific)7000 813
www.global-reports.comRoche Finance Report 2008Table of Contents
Roche Group 2
Finance in brief 2
Finance — 2008 in brief 3
Financial Review 4
Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements 28
Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated
Financial Statements 34
Report of Roche Management
on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 119
Report of the Statutory Auditor
on the Consolidated Financial Statements 120
Report of the Independent Auditor
on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 122
Multi-Year Overview and Supplementary Information 124
Roche Securities 131
Roche Holding Ltd, Basel 133
Financial Statements 133
Notes to the Financial Statements 135
including Board and Executive remuneration
disclosures as required by Swiss Law 137
Appropriation of Available Earnings 142
Report of the Statutory Auditor
on the Financial Statements 143
www.global-reports.com2
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Finance in brief
Finance in brief
Key results
Local sales growth % Operating profit margin, % of sales
Pharmaceuticals 2008 +4.7 36.2
2007 +11.4 35.5
Diagnostics 2008 +10.5 12.3
2007 +5.6 17.6
Group 2008 +5.9 30.5
2007 +10.2 31.4
2008 2007 % change % of sales
(mCHF) (mCHF) (CHF) (LC) 2008 2007
Sales 45,617 46,133 –1 +6
Research and development 8,845 8,385 +5 +13 19.4 18.2
Operating profit 13,924 14,468 –4 +4 30.5 31.4
Operating free cash flow 12,378 10,671 +16 +27 27.1 23.1
Net income 10,844 11,437 –5 23.8 24.8
Free cash flow 4,979 3,982 +25 10.9 8.6
Core EPS (CHF)1) 11.04 11.85 –7 +2
Dividend per share2)in CHF 5.00 4.60 +9
31 December 31 December % change
2008 2007 (CHF)
Net cash 16,682 17,336 –4
Equity 53,822 53,443 +1
Equity ratio 70.7% 68.2%
1) See page 128 for definition of Core EPS.
2) Proposed by the Board of Directors.
LC = local currencies
Finance Executive Committee
Erich Hunziker Chief Financial Officer
Hubert Buck Management Development
Peter Eisenring Tax and Insurance
Marco Frei Pension Asset Management
Andreas Knierzinger Treasury
Steve Krognes Corporate Development
Karl Mahler Investor Relations
Carole Nuechterlein Venture Funds
Erwin Schneider Accounting and Controlling3
Finance — 2008 in brief Roche Finance Report 2008
Finance — 2008 in brief
Sales
• Group sales increase by 6% in local currencies to 45.6billion Swiss francs. Excluding Tamiflu pandemic
sales, which declined sharply as expected, the increase is 10% in local currencies.
• Pharmaceuticals sales increase by 10% or 3.3billion Swiss francs in local currencies (excluding Tamiflu
pandemic sales), twice the global market growth thanks to the key oncology products and also
Bonviva/Boniva and CellCept.
• Oncology sales grow by 15% in local currencies to 19.7billion Swiss francs, representing 55% of
Pharmaceuticals sales.
• Diagnostics sales increase by 10% in local currencies to 9.7billion Swiss francs. Organic growth is 6%
while the acquisition of the Ventana tissue diagnostics business adds 4percentage points.
Operating results
• Operating profit increases by 4% in local currencies to 13.9billion Swiss francs thanks to strong underlying
sales growth and continuing productivity improvements, and despite substantially lower Tamiflu pandemic
sales and strong increases in R&D.
• Operating profit margin decreases by 0.9 percentage points to 30.5% mainly driven by a lower Diagnostics
margin following recent acquisitions and competition in the US diabetes care market. Further increase
ofthe Pharma margin to 36.2%.
• R&D expenditure increases by 13% in local currencies to 8.8billion Swiss francs, representing 19.4%
ofGroup sales.
• Substantial unfavourable exchange rate impact on Swiss franc denominated consolidated results.
• On 21 July 2008 Roche made an offer to purchase all outstanding shares of Genentech for 89.00 US dollars
per share in cash and announced a reorganisation of its US pharmaceuticals business.
Treasury
• Minimal adverse effect from financial crisis due to conservative investment approach with limited exposure
to equities.
• Net financial income reaches 0.2 billion Swiss francs. The reduction of 0.6 billion Swiss francs compared
to2007 is primarily due to lower interest income resulting from lower liquid funds and reductions in
interest rates.
• Redemption on maturity of 2.3 billion Swiss francs of capital market debt.
Financial condition
• Strong financial condition with free cash flow of 5.0 billion Swiss francs and net cash of 16.7 billion
Swissfrancs.
• Increase in equity ratio to 71% from 68%.
• Following the announcement of the intent to take Genentech fully private, Moody’s put Roche’s Aa1 rating
on review for downgrade and Standard & Poor’s lowered Roche’s rating to AA- from AA+.
Net income and Core EPS
• Net income down by 5% to 10.8billion Swiss francs, primarily driven by strong exchange rate impact.
• Core EPS at constant exchange rates 2% above the record 2007 level.
Shareholder return
• Roche’s market capitalisation decreases by 18% to 141 billion Swiss francs, broadly in line with the
European and global pharmaceuticals sector.
• Increase in proposed dividend of 9% to 5.00 Swiss francs, representing the 22ndconsecutive year of
dividend growth.
• If approved by shareholders, this will result in an increased payout ratio of 49% and a higher dividend yield
on the Roche share of 3.0% and on the non-voting equity security of 3.1%, based on year-end prices.
www.global-reports.com4
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Financial Review
Roche Group
Financial Review
Group operating results
Sales | in billions of CHF Operating profit | in billions of CHF
% LC growth % of sales
2008 +5.9 30.5
2007 +10.2 31.4
2006 +17.4 27.9
0 10 20 30 40 50 0 5 10 15 20
In 2008 the Group continued the strong underlying operating performance from previous years. The Pharma-
ceuticals Division further increased its operating profit margin as the growth in the underlying business more
than compensated for the expected sharp decline in Tamiflu pandemic sales and the planned increases in
research and development. In the Diagnostics Division the impact of recent acquisitions and competition in
the US diabetes care market resulted in a decline in the operating profit margin. The strengthening of the
Swiss franc against most currencies had a substantial negative impact on the Group’s overall operating results
when translated from local currencies into Swiss francs.
Total sales grew by 6% in local currencies (–1% in Swiss francs; 10% in US dollars) to 45.6 billion Swiss
francs, with the Pharmaceuticals Division representing 79% of Group sales and the Diagnostics Division con-
tributing 21%. The sales increase in the underlying business more than compensated for the anticipated fall in
Tamiflu pandemic government and corporate sales from 1.9 billion Swiss francs in 2007 to 237 million Swiss
francs in 2008. Local currency sales growth excluding Tamiflu pandemic sales was 10%. The strength of
theSwiss franc over the last twelve months resulted in approximately 3.2 billion lower sales when translated
into Swiss francs.
Demand for the Group’s oncology drugs Avastin, MabThera/Rituxan, Herceptin, Tarceva and Xeloda con-
tinuedto grow strongly. Additional growth drivers in the Pharmaceuticals Division were Bonviva/Boniva in
metabolism/bone and CellCept in transplantation. In the Diagnostics Division the main growth areas were
Professional Diagnostics, Applied Science and Tissue Diagnostics, with these business areas growing above
their respective markets. Following the acquisition of Ventana at the beginning of February 2008, sales in the
new Tissue Diagnostics business area were 376 million Swiss francs, contributing 4 percentage points to
localcurrency sales growth of the Diagnostics Division.
The Group’s operating profit increased by 4% in local currencies to 13.9 billion Swiss francs. The operating
profit margin declined by 0.9 percentage point to 30.5% due to a margin reduction in the Diagnostics Division
of 5.3 percentage points. The Pharmaceuticals margin increased to 36.2% from 35.5% in 2007 despite signifi-
cantly lower Tamiflu pandemic sales and increased investments in the strong development pipeline. More than
half of the fall in the margin of the Diagnostics Division was due to the impact of recent acquisitions (one-time
charges, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and investments to develop the acquired businesses) and
the rest was mainly due to strong competition in the US diabetes care market and portfolio mix effects.5
In 2008 the average US dollar exchange rate against the Swiss franc was 10% lower than in the comparative
period. The euro was 4% lower whereas the Japanese yen was 3% higher. The movements in exchange rates
have had a significant impact on Swiss franc growth rates: Sales and operating profit growth rates reported
inSwiss francs were 7 and 8 percentage points below local currency growth respectively. Natural hedges
inthe structure of the Group’s operations meant that the Group operating margin was not significantly
impacted by foreign exchange movements.
In the Pharmaceuticals Division there were two exceptional items: income of 271 million Swiss francs from
thesettlement of Genentech’s litigation with the City of Hope Medical Center and expenses of 243 million
Swiss francs from the initial stages of Pharmaceuticals Division US reorganisation. The net impact of these
onthe Group and divisional results is not significant.
Group operating results for 2008
Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Corporate Group
(mCHF) (mCHF) (mCHF) (mCHF)
Sales 35,961 9,656 – 45,617
Operating profit before exceptional items 12,974 1,187 (265) 13,896
— margin, % of sales 36.1 12.3 – 30.5
Operating free cash flow 12,053 600 (275) 12,378
— margin, % of sales 33.5 6.2 – 27.1
Group operating results — Development of results compared to 2007
Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Corporate Group
Sales
— % increase in local currencies +5 +10 – +6
Operating profit before exceptional items
— % increase in local currencies +8 –22 +19 +4
— margin: percentage point increase +0.6 –5.3 – –0.9
Operating free cash flow
— % increase in local currencies +31 –33 –38 +27
— margin: percentage point increase +6.2 –5.2 – +4.0
Pharmaceuticals operating results
The Pharmaceuticals Division increased its sales by 5% in local currencies (–2% in Swiss francs; 8% in
USdollars) to 36.0billion Swiss francs. Excluding Tamiflu pandemic government and corporate sales, local
sales growth was 10% outpacing global market growth by a factor of around two. Operating profit before
exceptional items was 13.0 billion Swiss francs, and the corresponding margin 36.1%, an increase of 0.6per-
centage points compared to 2007 despite significantly lower Tamiflu pandemic sales and increased
investments in research and development.
Marketing costs increased moderately in local currencies in spite of continued support for the growing
oncology and rheumatoid arthritis portfolios. Investments were made in the broader indications particularly
forAvastin, as well as investments for the launch of Actemra/RoActemra. The strong expected increase
inresearch and development expenses, significantly above the increase in sales, was due to continued high
investments in the strong pipeline and expanded portfolio as well as the large number of clinical trials.
For more information on the divisional business and its pipeline, see the Business Report (Part 1 of this
Annual Report).
www.global-reports.com6
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Financial Review
Pharmaceuticals Division results
2008 2007 % change % change
(mCHF) (mCHF) (CHF) (local currencies)
Sales 35,961 36,783 –2 +5
Royalties and other operating income 2,148 2,057 +4 +12
Cost of sales (8,963) (9,502) –6 0
Marketing and distribution (6,696) (7,018) –5 +2
Research and development (7,904) (7,598) +4 +11
General and administration (1,572) (1,680) –6 0
Operating profit before
exceptional items 12,974 13,042 –1 +8
— margin, % of sales 36.1 35.5 +0.6
Operating free cash flow 12,053 10,044 +20 +31
— margin, % of sales 33.5 27.3 +6.2
Sales
The major growth drivers were key products in the therapeutic areas oncology, inflammation/
autoimmune/transplantation,virology (excluding Tamiflu pandemic sales) and metabolism/bone. Sales in
thetherapeutic area renal anemia decreased in an increasingly competitive, cost-sensitive market.
Pharmaceuticals Division — Sales by therapeutic area for 2008
Sales % change
Therapeutic area (mCHF) % of sales (local currencies)
Oncology 19,654 55 +15
Virology 3,408 9/91) –27/+71)
Inflammation/Autoimmune/Transplantation 3,264 9 +19
Metabolism/Bone 2,839 8 +7
Renal anemia 1,318 4 –11
Others 5,478 15 –5
Total 35,961 100 +5/+101)
1) Excluding Tamiflu pandemic government and corporate sales.
In 2008 the Top 20 Pharmaceuticals products, which represented 86% of the Pharmaceuticals portfolio, grew
8% (14% excluding Tamiflu pandemic sales) with the majority of products showing sales growth. The local
sales growth of the Pharmaceuticals Division was driven by seven products: Avastin, MabThera/Rituxan,
Herceptin, Bonviva/Boniva, CellCept, Tarceva and Xeloda. These products represent 61% of the portfolio
(2007: 53%; 2006: 48%) and together generated over 2 billion Swiss francs of additional sales compared
to2007 despite the strong negative currency impact mainly from the US dollar. Sales of Tamiflu declined due
to non-recurring pandemic sales. Other sales declines were primarily due to generic erosion following patent
expiry, strong competition in certain franchises and the return by Chugai of a group of marketed products
inJapan to Sanofi-Aventis.7
Pharmaceuticals Division — Sales of Top 20 products for 2008
Sales % change
Product (mCHF) % of sales (local currencies) Franchise
MabThera/Rituxan 5,923 16 +16 Oncology/IAT1)
Avastin 5,207 15 +37 Oncology
Herceptin 5,092 14 +12 Oncology
CellCept 2,099 6 +13 IAT1)
NeoRecormon/Epogin 1,774 5 –13 Renal anemia, Oncology
Pegasys 1,635 5 +6 Virology
Tarceva 1,215 3 +23 Oncology
Xeloda 1,211 3 +13 Oncology
Bonviva/Boniva 1,108 3 +35 Metabolism/Bone
Lucentis 960 3 +7 Ophthalmology
Tamiflu 609 2 –68 Virology
— of which pandemic 237 1 –86 Virology
Xolair 560 2 +10 Respiratory diseases
Valcyte/Cymevene 553 2 +10 Virology
Xenical 502 1 –13 Metabolism/Bone
Pulmozyme 496 1 +12 Respiratory diseases
Nutropin 413 1 –2 Metabolism/Bone
Neutrogin 404 1 –3 Oncology
Rocephin 344 1 –10 Infectious diseases
Activase/TNKase 342 1 –1 Cardiovascular diseases
Madopar 311 1 +4 Nervous System
Total Top 20 products 30,758 86 +8
Other products 5,203 14 –12
Total 35,961 100 +5
Excluding Tamiflu pandemic
government and corporate sales
Total Top 20 products 30,521 85 +14
Other products 5,203 15 –12
Total 35,724 100 +10
1) Inflammation/Autoimmune/Transplantation.
MabThera/Rituxan | Double-digit sales growth was driven by increasing use in oncology indications and
rheumatoid arthritis. In Europe and the US most of the oncology sales growth was due to increasing usage
ofMabThera/Rituxan following first-line therapy of indolent non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL), including
maintenance use. The already high penetration rates for first-line treatment of indolent and aggressive NHL
were sustained in the US and Europe’s five largest markets (France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United
Kingdom), while increasing adoption in these settings was seen in emerging markets. Adoption in rheumatoid
arthritis (RA) continued to increase in both the US and Europe/Rest of World (RoW). An estimated 800 mil-
lion Swiss francs of sales were generated in the RA indication.
Avastin | Sales increased 37% worldwide compared to 2007, with strong growth in all regions, particularly
Europe/RoW (+67%). In the US growth was driven primarily by increased usage in metastatic breast cancer
following accelerated approval by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in February. Sales growth in
Europe was driven primarily by increased use of the medicine for metastatic colorectal and breast cancer.
Sales in Europe also benefited from the rollout of new indications and increasing uptake for non-small cell
lung cancer and renal cell carcinoma.
www.global-reports.com8
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Financial Review
Herceptin | Growth continued to be driven by increasing adoption in adjuvant (early stage) HER2-positive
breast cancer. Roche estimates that by the end of 2008 the product’s market share in the adjuvant setting
was approximately 75% (versus 70% a year earlier) in the five largest European markets. Elsewhere, market
penetration in this setting also continues to build. In the US penetration into this market flattened during 2008
due to earlier, more rapid adoption of Herceptin for adjuvant treatment. In the metastatic setting, adoption
rates and treatment duration remained stable both in the US and in the top five European markets.
CellCept | The immunosuppressant CellCept continued to record double digit sales growth worldwide
(+13%), driven by solid demand in both the US and Europe. Growth continues to be driven by physicians’
recognition of the long-term protective benefits of CellCept in transplant patients compared with other,
moretoxic therapeutic options.
NeoRecormon/Epogin | Combined sales of Roche’s NeoRecormon and Chugai’s Epogin (epoetin beta)
were down 13% in a market that remains highly competitive due to pricing pressure from branded compe-
titors and the entry of biosimilar versions of epoetin alfa in Europe. The market share of NeoRecormon has
decreased only slightly, with global sales down 10% in 2008. In Japan, where Epogin remains the market
leader, a decline in sales of 18% for the medicine was due primarily to sustained pricing pressure.
Pegasys | In 2008 Pegasys maintained its clear leadership of the global pegylated interferon market and con-
tinued to gain market share. Global sales increased 6% to 1.6 billion Swiss francs, driven by strong growth in
Japan of 54% and growth in key emerging markets. This was combined with solid growth in the United States,
where Pegasys now accounts for 70% of new prescriptions for hepatitis C.
Tarceva | Tarceva recorded strong growth in 2008 (+23%), particularly in the Europe/RoW sales region
(+27%), which now accounts for 55% of overall sales. US sales increased by 10% in a competitive market
environment. Tarceva is still the only epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitor with a proven survival benefit
in advanced lung and pancreatic cancer.
Xeloda | Xeloda recorded sustained double-digit sales growth throughout 2008. Growth in Japan was partic-
ularly strong at 74%, and solid increases were also recorded in the US (+9%) and Europe/RoW (+14%).
Sales were driven by expanded indications approved in 2007 and 2008, notably stomach cancer and
advanced colorectal cancer, along with uptake in breast cancer.
Bonviva/Boniva | In a highly competitive market, sales of Bonviva/Boniva (ibandronic acid) for the treatment
of postmenopausal osteoporosis, increased by 221 million Swiss francs to 1.1 billion Swiss francs compared
with 2007. The majority of sales come from the US, where the product’s market share remained robust despite
the entry of generic versions of competitor products. Bonviva gained reimbursement status and was launched
in many European markets in 2006.
Lucentis | Sales of Lucentis for the treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration (wet
AMD) in the US grew 7% in 2008, driven primarily by an increased number of Lucentis dosage per patient.
New patient share was broadly stable as off-label usage of an unapproved therapy in wet AMD remained
high. Outside the US, Lucentis is marketed by Novartis.
Tamiflu | Sales of Tamiflu in 2008 declined by 1.5 billion Swiss francs or 68% versus 2007. Seasonal sales
were 143million Swiss francs higher and pandemic sales decreased by 1.6 billion Swiss francs compared to
2007, as most stockpiling programmes from governments and corporations were completed in 2007. Seasonal
sales of Tamiflu in Japan were negatively affected by the mild 2007/2008 flu season. In addition, there was
asubstantial decrease in pandemic sales to the Japanese government.
See the Business Report for more information on Roche’s pharmaceutical products including the R&D
pipeline (end pages of the Business Report).9
Sales by region | Sales excluding Tamiflu pandemic government and corporate sales continued to grow
across all regions. Growth in North America was 10% in local currencies compared to an almost stagnant
market, driven by products marketed by Genentech (oncology products, Lucentis, Xolair and Pulmozyme) as
well as the Roche Pharmaceuticals products Tamiflu (seasonal sales), Bonviva/Boniva, CellCept, Pegasys
andXeloda. Roche Pharmaceuticals continued to gain market share in the Western Europe and Latin America
regions, driven by further strong sales growth of Avastin, MabThera/Rituxan, Herceptin, Bonviva/Boniva,
Tarceva and CellCept. Sales in Japan increased, as the launches of Avastin, the combination therapy Pegasys
plus Copegus and Tarceva compensated for normal biennial price cuts in Japan, which became effective
1April 2008, and the return of a group of marketed products to Sanofi-Aventis. Tamiflu sales decreased
sharply due to the completion of most pandemic stockpiling orders from governments and corporations in
2007 particularly in Western Europe, Japan and the CEMAI region.
Pharmaceuticals Division — Sales by region for 2008
Sales % change
Region (mCHF) % of sales (local currencies)
North America 14,679 41 +102)/+5
Western Europe 10,330 29 +82)/+5
CEMAI1) 3,187 9 +122)/+5
Japan 3,336 9 +42)/–4
Latin America 2,394 6 +162)/+15
Asia—Pacific 1,698 5 +92)/+6
Other regions 337 1 +12)/–1
Total 35,961 100 +102)/+5
1) Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa, Central Asia, Indian Subcontinent.
2) Excluding Tamiflu pandemic government and corporate sales.
Operating results
Royalties and other operating income | The increase of 91million Swiss francs or 12% in local currencies
was due to higher royalty income and gains on disposal of products which offset 302million Swiss francs
lower income from out-licensing agreements. The fall in out-licensing income was mainly due to a number of
significant milestone payments in 2007 such as for orlistat OTC rights from GlaxoSmithKline, 80 million Swiss
francs as part of a third-party collaboration agreement at Genentech and 42 million Swiss francs relating to
Lucentis for approval in the European Union and filing in Japan. Gains on product divestments were 235mil-
lion Swiss francs higher than in 2007 and include a gain of 132 million Swiss francs from the second stage of
the disposal of three products to Actavis, a gain of 50 million Swiss francs from the disposal of products in
Turkey as well as a gain of 158 million Swiss francs from Meda and a gain of 96 million Swiss francs from a
sale of other product rights, all being part of the continuous realignment of the product portfolio. The increase
in royalty income was driven by Genentech. Royalties and other operating income as percentage of sales
increased by 0.4percentage points to 6.0%.
Pharmaceuticals Division — Royalties and other operating income
2008 2007 % change
(mCHF) (mCHF) (local currencies)
Royalty income 1,234 1,076 +26
Income from out-licensing agreements 420 722 –38
Income from disposal of products and other 494 259 +95
Total 2,148 2,057 +12
www.global-reports.com10
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Financial Review
Cost of sales | Costs remained stable in local currencies mainly driven by an 8% decline in manufacturing
cost of goods sold and period costs. This was due to manufacturing efficiencies, favourable product mix
effects and the comparison period in 2007 including 135 million Swiss francs Viracept recall costs. Amorti-
sation of intangible assets decreased by 17% in local currencies as some intangible assets became fully
amortised. All of the above compensated for the 19% local currency increase in collaboration and profit
sharing agreements and the 6% local currency increase in royalty expenses on product sales to 2,105million
Swiss francs (2007: 2,089million Swiss francs). Genentech’s collaboration profit-sharing expenses with its
partners Biogen Idec, Novartis and OSI increased due to higher sales of MabThera/Rituxan, Tarceva and
Xolair, respectively and reached 1,330 million Swiss francs (2007: 1,297million Swiss francs), despite being
impacted by the weaker US dollar. The gross profit share to GlaxoSmithKline has increased to 478million
Swiss francs (2007: 379 million Swiss francs) following increased Bonviva/Boniva sales. Royalty expenses on
Tamiflu were lower in 2008 due to less pandemic sales, however this has been more than offset by strong
growth in other royalty-bearing products, in particular Cellcept (autoimmune), Tarceva, Herceptin and Avastin,
and additionally often the royalty rates are tiered to certain sales levels. As a percentage of sales, cost of
sales decreased to 24.9% from 25.8% in 2007.
Pharmaceuticals Division — Cost of sales
2008 2007 % change
(mCHF) (mCHF) (local currencies)
Manufacturing cost of goods sold and period costs (4,463) (5,041) –8
Royalty expenses (2,105) (2,089) +6
Collaboration and profit-sharing agreements (1,908) (1,755) +19
Amortisation of intangible assets (477) (614) –17
Impairment of property, plant and equipment (10) (3) +287
Impairment of intangible assets – – –
Total (8,963) (9,502) 0
Marketing and distribution | Costs increased 2% in local currencies and reached 6.7 billion Swiss francs
(2007: 7.0 billion Swiss francs). Significant investments continued in leveraging the rich oncology portfolio,
with the rollout of additional approved indications and in particular the pan-tumour positioning of Avastin.
Heavy levels of investment continued in Bonviva/Boniva and Pegasys and additionally there were preparations
for the launch of Actemra/RoActemra in rheumatoid arthritis. These increases were offset by the absence
oflast year’s pre-launch preparation for Mircera in the United States. Marketing and distribution costs as
apercentage of sales decreased 0.5 percentage points to 18.6% (2007: 19.1%).
Research and development | The increase of 11% in local currencies to almost 8 billion Swiss francs
reflectscontinued investment to realise the full potential of the strong development portfolio. This investment
includes the late-stage clinical testing of promising compounds such as dalcetrapib (CETP inhibitor for
dyslipidemia), ocrelizumab (autoimmune disorders), pertuzumab (breast cancer), and taspoglutide (GLP-1
analogue for type 2 diabetes). Investments were also made in numerous programmes aimed at expanding the
use of Roche’s leading anticancer medicines into additional indications, such as Avastin in adjuvant colon
cancer. Moreover, impairments of intangible assets were higher than in the comparative period. Research and
development costs as a percentage of sales were 22.0% compared to 20.7% in 2007 and 21.3% in the first
half of 2008. The Pharmaceuticals Division in total spent 363 million Swiss francs on the in-licensing of
pipeline compounds and technologies, which are capitalised as intangible assets as required by IFRS. In total
the division spent 8.1 billion Swiss francs on internal and purchased R&D from in-licensing and other alliance
deals, representing 22.6% of sales. In addition, Roche Pharmaceuticals spent a further 513 million Swiss
francs on the acquisitions of the biotechnology companies Piramed, Mirus and ARIUS.11
Pharmaceuticals Division — Investments in research and development
2008 2007 % change
(mCHF) (mCHF) (local currencies)
Research and development expenses 7,904 7,598 +11
Less non-cash items
— Amortisation of intangible assets (34) (31) +22
— Impairment of intangible assets (99) (58) +77
Research and development expenses excluding
non-cash items 7,771 7,509 +11
Product intangibles — not available for use 363 739 –46
Technology intangibles – 3 –100
Research and development related capital expenditure 363 742 –46
Total investments in research and development 8,134 8,251 +6
General and administration | Overall costs remained stable in local currencies due to lower legal and
restructuring expenses and lower implementation costs for a business harmonisation project including the
establishment of a European shared services centre in Budapest, in spite of the loss on the divestment
of46million Swiss francs for the Cenexi business in France. General and administration expenses as a
percentage of sales decreased to 4.4% from 4.6%.
Pharmaceuticals Division — General and administration
2008 2007 % change
(mCHF) (mCHF) (local currencies)
Administration (1,497) (1,665) –4
Legal and environmental settlements (1) (15) –78
Business combinations — transaction expenses (8) – –
Gain (loss) on divestment of businesses (46) – –
Restructuring expenses (32) (107) –67
Gains (losses) on disposal of property, plant and equipment (7) 17 –
Other general items 19 90 –82
Total (1,572) (1,680) 0
Sub-divisional results
Pharmaceuticals sub-divisional results
Operating Operating
profit before profit before
exceptional exceptional Operating Operating
Sales items items as free cash flow free cash flow
(mCHF) (mCHF) % of sales (mCHF) as % of sales
2008
Roche Pharmaceuticals 22,164 6,795 30.7 6,579 29.7
Genentech 10,461 5,821 55.6 5,089 48.6
Chugai 3,336 591 17.7 385 11.5
Elimination within division1) – (233) – – –
Pharmaceuticals Division 35,961 12,974 36.1 12,053 33.5
1) Unrealised internal profits on inventories that have been sold from one sub-division to another, but which have not yet been sold on
toexternal customers at the balance sheet date are eliminated as a consolidation entry.
www.global-reports.com12
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Financial Review
Operating Operating
profit before profit before
exceptional exceptional Operating Operating
Sales items items as free cash flow free cash flow
(mCHF) (mCHF) % of sales (mCHF) as % of sales
2007
Roche Pharmaceuticals 22,970 7,225 31.5 5,595 24.4
Genentech 10,414 5,298 50.9 3,880 37.3
Chugai 3,399 610 17.9 569 16.7
Elimination within division1) – (91) – – –
Pharmaceuticals Division 36,783 13,042 35.5 10,044 27.3
1) Unrealised internal profits on inventories that have been sold from one sub-division to another, but which have not yet been sold on
toexternal customers at the balance sheet date are eliminated as a consolidation entry.
Roche Pharmaceuticals | Sales increased by 3% in local currencies despite the impact from declining
Tamiflu pandemic government and corporate sales. Excluding these, local sales growth was 9%. Operating
profit margin before exceptional items decreased by 0.8 percentage points to 30.7%. Higher investments in
research and development and higher expenses to alliance and collaboration partners as well as lower income
from out-licensing agreements outweighed favourable developments in cost of sales from manufacturing
efficiencies and some product mix impacts and the inclusion of the Viracept recall costs in the 2007 results.
Royalty expenses to third parties were 1,316million Swiss francs (2007: 1,344million Swiss francs) and
royalty expenses to Genentech were 1,702million Swiss francs (2007: 1,417million Swiss francs) following
thecontinued success ofthe oncology portfolio outside the US.
Genentech | Sales grew by 11% in local currencies and the operating profit margin before exceptional items
improved by 4.7 percentage points to 55.6%. The main drivers here were strong sales growth and higher
royalty and other operating income both from third parties and from Roche Pharmaceuticals which more than
compensated for continued heavy investments in research and development and higher collaboration profit
sharing expenses with Biogen Idec.
Chugai | Sales decreased by 4% in local currencies, driven primarily by governmental Tamiflu pandemic
stockpiling in 2007. Excluding Tamiflu pandemic, sales increased 4% in local currencies, driven by the
successful launches of Avastin, the combination therapy Pegasys plus Copegus and Tarceva, which
outweighed 18% lower Epogin sales and the decline in sales from the return of a group of marketed prod-
uctsto Sanofi-Aventis in early 2008. This product group had a sales value of around 110million Swiss francs
in 2007 and reduced Chugai’s reported sales growth by 3 percentage points in 2008. Operating profit
decreased by 8% in local currencies driven by lower sales. In spite of lower sales, increased support for prod-
uct launches and the stable high level of research and development expenses, the operating profit margin of
17.7% was only slightly lower compared to 17.9% in 2007. In June 2008 the Group increased its ownership
interest in Chugai’s outstanding shares to 61.5% through a tender offer.
Additional information on the Pharmaceuticals Division’s sub-divisional results is given in Note 2 to the Con-
solidated Financial Statements and further information on Genentech and Chugai is given in Notes 3 and 4.
Exceptional items
Major legal cases | Following the California Supreme Court decision of 24 April 2008, Genentech’s litigation
with the City of Hope National Medical Center was settled with a positive net impact on the operating results of
271 million Swiss francs. Additional information is given in Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Changes in Group organisation | On 21 July 2008 the Group announced a proposal to purchase all of the
outstanding shares of Genentech and also a reorganisation of the Group’s US Pharmaceuticals business.
During 2008 expenses of 243 million Swiss francs were incurred for already committed costs, mainly for
termination costs for the closure of manufacturing operations at Nutley, New Jersey, and the research site
atPalo Alto, California. Additional information is given in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.13
Pharmaceuticals Division — Total operating results
Roche Pharmaceuticals
Pharmaceuticals Genentech Chugai Division1)
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
(mCHF) (mCHF) (mCHF) (mCHF) (mCHF) (mCHF) (mCHF) (mCHF)
Operating profit before
exceptional items 6,795 7,225 5,821 5,298 591 610 12,974 13,042
Major legal cases – – 271 – – – 271 –
Changes in Group
organisation (149) – (94) – – – (243) –
Operating profit 6,646 7,225 5,998 5,298 591 610 13,002 13,042
1) Includes unrealised internal profits of 233 million Swiss francs (2007: 91 million Swiss francs) on inventories that have been sold
fromone sub-division to another, but which have not yet been sold on to external customers at the balance sheet date and which are
eliminated as a consolidation entry.
Operating free cash flow
All three sub-divisions of the Pharmaceuticals Division continue to generate strong cash flows. The cash gener-
ated supports the expansion of the business with the investments in new production facilities and in intellectual
property through in-licensing deals. At Genentech in particular, asignificant part of the free cash flow has
usually been used in their equity compensation plans, including thepurchase of their own equity to maintain
Roche’s ownership percentage. In 2008 this was equivalent to 109million Swiss francs (2007: 1,071 million
Swiss francs) with the considerable fall in 2008 being due to theprepayment of some repurchases by Genen-
tech at the end of 2007 and the increased cash inflows from exercise of options by Genentech employees.
Overall operating free cash flow increased by 31% in local currencies driven by improved net working capital
management and lower capital expenditures and outflows for equity compensation plans. As a percentage of
sales, operating free cash flow of the Pharmaceuticals Division increased to 33.5% compared to 27.3% in 2007.
Pharmaceuticals Division — Operating free cash flow
Roche Elimination within Pharmaceuticals
Pharmaceuticals Genentech Chugai division1) Division
(mCHF) (mCHF) (mCHF) (mCHF) (mCHF)
2008
Operating profit 6,646 5,998 591 (233) 13,002
Operating profit cash adjustments2) 1,290 2 204 – 1,496
(Increase)/decrease in net working
capital (281) 179 (146) 233 (15)
Investments in property,
plant and equipment (907) (850) (264) – (2,021)
Investments in intangible assets (169) (240) – – (409)
Operating free cash flow 6,579 5,089 385 – 12,053
— as % of sales 29.7 48.6 11.5 – 33.5
2007
Operating profit 7,225 5,298 610 (91) 13,042
Operating profit cash adjustments2) 724 (61) 166 – 829
(Increase)/decrease in net working
capital (866) 133 42 91 (600)
Investments in property,
plant and equipment (987) (1,310) (241) – (2,538)
Investments in intangible assets (501) (180) (8) – (689)
Operating free cash flow 5,595 3,880 569 – 10,044
— as % of sales 24.4 37.3 16.7 – 27.3
1) Unrealised internal profits on inventories that have been sold from one sub-division to another, but which have not yet been sold
ontoexternal customers at the balance sheet date are eliminated as a consolidation entry.
2) Operating profit cash adjustments consist of the elimination of depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges and the replacement
of the operating income/expenses for provisions, equity compensation plans and disposals of property, plant and equipment and
intangibles assets with their cash equivalents. Adetailed breakdown is provided on pages 129—130.
www.global-reports.com14
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Financial Review
Diagnostics operating results
The Diagnostics Division increased sales to 9.7 billion Swiss francs, growing 10% in local currencies (3% in
Swiss francs; 15% in US dollars), leveraged by additional sales from the Ventana acquisition, while strength-
ening its leading market position in most of the existing businesses. The operating profit decreased by 22%
inlocal currencies to 1.2 billion Swiss francs and the corresponding margin declined 5.3 percentage points to
12.3%. More than half of this decline was due to acquisition impacts, including amortisation of acquired intan-
gible assets and investments to develop the acquired businesses. The remainder of the decline was mostly
due to strong competition in the US diabetes care market and portfolio mix effects. In the first half of 2008
the division completed the acquisition of Ventana for a total consideration of 3.8 billion Swiss francs.
For more information on the divisional business and its pipeline, see the Business Report (Part 1 of this
Annual Report).
Diagnostics Division results
2008 2007 % change % change
(mCHF) (mCHF) (CHF) (local currencies)
Sales 9,656 9,350 +3 +10
Royalties and other operating income 139 186 –25 –21
Cost of sales (4,698) (4,241) +11 +19
Marketing and distribution (2,474) (2,309) +7 +15
Research and development (941) (787) +20 +26
General and administration (495) (551) –10 –4
Operating profit 1,187 1,648 –28 –22
— margin, % of sales 12.3 17.6 –5.3
Operating free cash flow 600 1,069 –44 –33
— margin, % of sales 6.2 11.4 –5.2
Sales
Diagnostics continued to grow well above the market with an increase of 10% in local currencies over the
previous year. Major drivers of sales growth were Professional Diagnostics leveraged by Immunodiagnostics,
Applied Science, in particular the DNA sequencing business, and Tissue Diagnostics through sales of
advanced staining instruments and reagents. Roche Diabetes Care’s sales decreased by 1% mainly as a result
of strong competition in the US diabetes care market. Molecular Diagnostics’ sales increased by 5%, driven
by sales of automated real-time PCR virology and blood screening products. The acquisition of Ventana was
completed at the beginning of February 2008 and sales in the new Tissue Diagnostics business area were
376million Swiss francs for the eleven months to 31 December 2008. These contributed 4 percentage points
to local currency sales growth of the Diagnostics Division.
Diagnostics Division — Sales by business area for 2008
Sales % change
Business area (mCHF) % of sales (local currencies)
Professional Diagnostics 4,422 46 +9
Diabetes Care 2,971 31 –1
Molecular Diagnostics 1,122 11 +5
Applied Science 765 8 +19
Tissue Diagnostics 376 4 n/a
Total 9,656 100 +10
Professional Diagnostics | Roche Professional Diagnostics continued to gain market share in 2008 as its
sales increased 9% in local currencies to 4.4 billion Swiss francs. Immunochemistry sales rose 19% in local
currencies to 1.4 billion Swiss francs, showing double-digit sales growth for the eighth consecutive year.
Growth was fuelled by a strong uptake of the anti-HCV assay (diagnosis of hepatitis C infection) which was
launched in the first half of 2008 outside the US. Growth was also driven by continued demand for the15
Elecsys NT-proBNP and Troponin T cardiac tests. The new immunoassays launched in 2007/early 2008,
wererolled out across European markets providing further growth. These included tests for anti-TSH receptor
(thyroid marker), Toxo IgG (toxoplasmosis), vitamin D (osteoporosis), anti-CCP (rheumatoid arthritis),
anti-CMV IgG/IgM for diagnosis CMV infection and Brahms Procalcitonin (sepsis). The first two were also
approved in the US in the third quarter of 2008, strengthening our offering in the largest market. With the
launch of these new tests, Roche has one of the broadest immunoassay menus, and rollout to new markets
will continue to drive growth. The clinical chemistry business grew in line with the market amid continuing
price erosion in this mature segment. Demand for the cobas 6000 analyser series for medium-workload
laboratories remained strong, with additional configurations launched in 2008 increasing its competitiveness.
The rollout of the smaller cobas 4000 instruments for small- to medium-size laboratories, continued with
theJuly 2008 launch of the cobas c 311 clinical chemistry analyser in all markets outside the US.
Sales of decentralised testing products rose 10% in local currencies to 793 million Swiss francs, helped by the
continued move towards testing at the point-of-care (POC). Coagulation monitoring sales grew double-digit
driven by the CoaguChek XS monitor for healthcare professionals and patient self-testing. The Accutrend
Plus, the first hand-held device capable of measuring cholesterol, glucose, triglycerides and lactate — impor-
tant indicators of cardiac risk — is now available in all markets after its initial release at the end of 2007.
POCcardiac assays posted double-digit growth, fuelled by continual up-take of the Roche Cardiac proBNP
assay and the cobas h 232 portable cardiac testing system, which also runs tests for troponin T, D-dimer,
heart type creatine kinase and myoglobin. In July 2008 the Accu-Chek Inform II, the first and only wireless
system for hospital glucose testing, was launched outside the US.
Diabetes Care | Roche Diabetes Care maintained market leadership with sales of 3.0 billion Swiss francs,
adecrease of 1% in local currencies, primarily impacted by strong competition in the US market. The new
blood glucose monitoring products — Accu-Chek Aviva, Accu-Chek Performa and Accu-Chek Compact Plus —
almost compensated for declining sales of the older Accu-Chek Advantage. Older products that are in the
process of being phased out now account for less than 30% of Diabetes Care sales. Accu-Chek Aviva is now
the largest selling system, with strong double-digit growth. The Accu-Chek Compact Plus was launched in
theUS and Japan in April and June 2008, respectively, and global rollout is now complete for both systems.
Roche’s insulin delivery business declined due to strong competition in the US market. Four important new
product launches are planned for 2009 to support sales. The Accu-Chek Aviva Nano and Accu-Chek Performa
Nano meters will start rollout in their first markets in the first quarter of 2009. The meters are sleeker and
more discreetly versioned, targeting the young testers segment. The Accu-Chek Mobile offers complete
integration of testing and lancing in a single device and features a unique ‘strip-free’ technology that employs
a continuous tape of 50 tests instead of single-use strips. Rollout will commence in the first quarter of 2009.
Also scheduled for EU markets beginning of 2009 is the Accu-Chek Combo system, which combines an
Accu-Chek Spirit insulin pump and glucose meter with remote-control and bolus calculator capabilities.
Molecular Diagnostics | Roche Molecular Diagnostics remained the market leader in an increasingly
competitive market, with sales of 1.1 billion Swiss francs, and an overall increase of 5% in local currencies.
Sales of virology products, the largest segment, grew 4% in local currencies, driven by continued demand
forthe automated Cobas AmpliPrep/Cobas TaqMan (CAP/CTM) platform in Europe, Japan and Asia—Pacific.
The FDA approved the automated Cobas TaqMan HBV Test and the fully-automated HCV Test in September
and October 2008, respectively. Combined with the Cobas TaqMan HIV Test launched in 2007, the initial
automation of this virology trio is now completed in the US. Blood screening sales increased by 2% in local
currencies, as additional blood centres in Europe, Asia—Pacific and Latin America converted to the fully
automated cobas s 201 platform and the comprehensive cobas TaqScreen MPX multiplex test (detects HIV-1
Groups M&O, HIV-2, HCV and HBV in donated blood or plasma). In December 2008 the FDA approved the
multiplex test for use on the cobas s 201 system. Earlier in September the Japanese Red Cross (JRC)
completed its transition to the fully automated cobas s 401 system and cobas TaqScreen MPX multiplex test,
now used to screen 100% of the Japanese blood supply. In June 2008 Roche signed an exclusive deal with
DxS Ltd. (UK) for distribution of the TheraScreen K-RAS Mutation Test and TheraScreen EGFR 29 Mutation
Test. Both tests are real-time PCR assays and have CE Mark certification. Used in conjunction with other
clinically relevant information, K-RAS and EGFR mutation testing can aid doctors in determining patients’
suitability for certain cancer therapies.
www.global-reports.com16
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Financial Review
Applied Science | Roche Applied Science’s sales grew more than three times the Life Sciences market,
rising 19% in local currencies to 765 million Swiss francs. The main growth drivers were again the LightCycler
480 system and reagents (for high-throughput real-time PCR) along with the ultrafast Genome Sequencer
systems (DNA sequencing), where the business area gained significant market share and is the leader in
instrument placement. Biochemical and industrial reagents showed moderate growth in a market impacted
byflat government research funding and decreased biotech spending. Microarray systems also contributed
strongly from increasing demand since Roche acquired NimbleGen in August 2007.
Tissue Diagnostics | Roche Tissue Diagnostics sales totalling 376 million Swiss francs, representing
salesfrom the date of acquisition in February to 31 December 2008, contributed 4 percentage points to the
Division’s local-currency sales growth. On a stand-alone basis, Roche Tissue Diagnostics’ sales for the entire
year reached 369 million US dollars, an increase of 23% in local currencies over 2007. Significantly exceeding
the estimated market growth rate, this increase was due to robust instrumentation sales of BenchMark XT
and LT and immunohistochemistry reagent sales in the advanced staining segment. Commercial operations
outside North America are largely integrated into Roche, with a focus on market expansion in Europe
andLatin America. A significant number of distributor relationships have now been replaced by dedicated
Roche sales teams.
Two major new systems, BenchMark Ultra and Vantage, were launched in 2008. BenchMark Ultra, the first
automated system to simultaneously perform immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridisation on a single
platform, was launched in the Unites States, Canada and Europe in the second half of the year. The Vantage
workflow solution was launched in the US in April 2008 and is a complete workflow information management
system for the anatomical pathology lab providing tracking capabilities that streamline and integrate lab work
and information flow for greater productivity and patient safety. In addition,10 new antibodies for various
cancer diagnostics were launched to further complement the portfolio.
See the Business Report for more information on Roche’s diagnostics products and Business Areas.
Sales by regions | Overall sales continued to grow ahead or in line with the total market in all regions.
InNorth America the increase of 14%, which includes 12 percentage points from Ventana, was driven by
theProfessional Diagnostics, Applied Science and Tissue Diagnostics business areas which more than
compensated for the 12% decline in Diabetes Care in the North American market. Japan grew significantly
more than its market with a 7% increase, while strong performance was also seen in emerging markets in
Europe, Asia—Pacific and Latin America.
Diagnostics Division — Sales by region for 2008
Sales % change
Region (mCHF) % of sales (local currencies)
EMEA1) 5,238 54 +7
North America 2,550 26 +14
Asia—Pacific 826 9 +18
Latin America 556 6 +18
Japan 450 5 +7
Other regions 36 – –18
Total 9,656 100 +10
1) Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Operating results
Royalties and other operating income | Income of 139 million Swiss francs was 21% lower in local curren-
cies compared to 2007, which included higher out-licensing income.17
Diagnostics Division — Royalties and other operating income
2008 2007 % change
(mCHF) (mCHF) (local currencies)
Royalty income 102 126 –13
Income from out-licensing agreements 33 55 –38
Income from disposal of products and other 4 5 –21
Total 139 186 –21
Cost of sales | The overall increase of 19% in local currencies was considerably higher than sales growth.
This was primarily a result of a number of impacts from the acquisitions made by the division over the last two
years. Firstly, amortisation of product intangibles increased by 45% in local currencies, partly due to 2008
including a full twelve months amortisation charge from the 2007 acquisitions and 11 months from Ventana.
Secondly, manufacturing cost of goods sold and period costs includes an acquisition accounting effect of
33million Swiss francs of expenses relating to the fair-value write-up of Ventana’s inventory which was fully
written off during the first half of 2008. Finally, royalty expenses in 2007 include the reversal of 57 million
Swiss francs of BioVeris royalty accruals.
Excluding acquisition accounting impacts, the underlying manufacturing cost of goods sold and period costs
grew by 14% in local currencies, primarily driven by continued investment in instrument and meter placements
to expand market share, and total cost of sales as a percentage to sales increased to 47.1% in 2008
comparedto 46.0% in 2007.
Diagnostics Division — Cost of sales
2008 2007 % change
(mCHF) (mCHF) (local currencies)
Manufacturing cost of goods sold and period costs (3,956) (3,696) +15
Royalty expenses (278) (215) +39
Collaboration and profit-sharing agreements (1) – –
Amortisation of product intangibles (450) (328) +45
Impairment of property, plant and equipment (8) (2) +299
Impairment of product intangibles (5) – –
Total (4,698) (4,241) +19
Marketing and distribution | The increase of 15% in local currencies was mainly due to investments to
increase market share, especially in Diabetes Care, and to competitively fund the sequencing and array
businesses in Applied Science. Excluding the impact of the newly acquired Tissue Diagnostics business,
marketing and distribution costs grew 10% in local currencies. Marketing and distribution as a percentage
ofsales was 25.6% compared to 24.7% in 2007.
Research and development | Costs increased by 26% in local currencies reflecting investments into the
sequencing and array businesses, and into molecular oncology tests. Tissue Diagnostics contributed
10 percentage points to this growth. As a percentage of sales, research and development costs increased
to9.7% from 8.4% in 2007.
Diagnostics Division — Investments in research and development
2008 2007 % change
(mCHF) (mCHF) (local currencies)
Research and development expenses 941 787 +26
Less non-cash items
— Amortisation of intangible assets (8) (3) +168
— Impairment of intangible assets – – –
Research and development expenses
excluding non-cash items 933 784 +26
www.global-reports.com18
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Financial Review
General and administration | General and administration costs decreased by 4% in local currencies. The
administration growth of 9% in local currencies is exclusively due to the acquired Tissue Diagnostics business.
In the first half of 2008, there were 41 million Swiss francs of transaction expenses relating to the Ventana
acquisition. Restructuring costs were lower in 2008, mainly due to 2007 including 29 million Swiss francs of
post-acquisition restructuring expenses at BioVeris. Restructuring costs in 2008 were 27million Swiss francs
mainly relating to the transfer of production in Professional Diagnostics from the United States to Germany
and Switzerland. Moreover expenses for legal and environmental settlements were significantly lower in 2008.
Diagnostics Division — General and administration
2008 2007 % change
(mCHF) (mCHF) (local currencies)
Administration (384) (373) +9
Legal and environmental settlements (15) (80) –81
Business combinations — transaction expenses (41) – –
Restructuring expenses (27) (39) –25
Gains (losses) on disposal of property,
plant and equipment (2) (1) +159
Other general items (26) (58) –55
Total (495) (551) –4
Operating free cash flow
Lower operating profit was the main driver of the decline in operating free cash flow while higher investments
in property, plant and equipment, particularly in instrument placements, were compensated by lower invest-
ments in intangible assets.
Diagnostics Division — Operating free cash flow
2008 2007
(mCHF) (mCHF)
Operating profit 1,187 1,648
Operating profit cash adjustments1) 1,122 1,121
(Increase)/decrease in net working capital (464) (374)
Investments in property, plant and equipment (1,237) (1,069)
Investments in intangible assets (8) (257)
Operating free cash flow 600 1,069
— as % of sales 6.2 11.4
1) Operating profit cash adjustments consist of the elimination of depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges and the replacement
of the operating income/expenses for provisions, equity compensation plans and disposals of property, plant and equipment and
intangibles assets with their cash equivalents. Adetailed breakdown is provided on pages 129—130.
Corporate operating costs
General and administration | Costs in 2008 were 19% higher at 265 million Swiss francs (222 million
Swissfrancs in 2007). The 2008 results include 18 million Swiss francs of costs due to the realignment of
divisional human resource activities into corporate human resources. In 2007, these costs were part of the
Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics divisional results. Operating free cash flow was a net outflow of 275 million
Swiss francs (2007: net outflow of 442 million Swiss francs).
Foreign exchange impact on operating results
The Group’s exposure to movements in foreign currencies affecting its operating results, as expressed in
Swiss francs, is summarised by the following key figures and comments.19
Growth
% change (local currencies) % change (CHF)
2008 2007 2008 2007
Sales +6 +10 –1 +10
Operating profit before exceptional items +4 +22 –4 +23
Exchange rates against the Swiss franc
31 December Average 31 December Average
2008 2008 2007 2007
1 USD 1.06 1.08 1.13 1.20
1 EUR 1.49 1.58 1.66 1.64
100 JPY 1.17 1.05 1.00 1.02
In 2008 the US dollar significantly weakened against the Swiss franc during the year, but recovered in the
final quarter. The Swiss franc strengthened against the euro and many other economies’ currencies, although
there was a weakening against the yen particularly in the fourth quarter. As a result, sales growth and operat-
ing profit growth expressed in Swiss francs was 7 and 8 percentage points respectively lower than in local
currencies. The sensitivity of Group sales and operating profit before exceptional items in absolute terms to
a1% movement in foreign currencies against the Swiss franc during 2008 are shown in the table below.
Currency sensitivities
Operating profit
before
Impact of 1% change in average exchange rate Sales exceptional items
versus the Swiss franc (mCHF) (mCHF)
US dollar 167 51
Euro 127 65
Japanese yen 38 12
All other currencies 105 65
Non-operating results
Non-operating results
2008 2007 % change
(mCHF) (mCHF) (CHF)
Operating profit 13,924 14,468 –4
Associates 1 2 –50
Financial income 1,123 1,805 –38
Financing costs (887) (971) –9
Profit before taxes 14,161 15,304 –7
Income taxes (3,317) (3,867) –14
Net income 10,844 11,437 –5
Attributable to
— Roche shareholders 8,969 9,761 –8
— Non-controlling interests 1,875 1,676 +12
www.global-reports.com20
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Financial Review
During 2008 the Group’s treasury operations delivered a positive net financial income, with net income from
financial assets and foreign exchange management exceeding financing costs by 236 million Swiss francs. The
Group’s effective tax rate declined to 23.4% compared to 25.3% in 2007 due mainly to declines in some local
tax rates. Net income decreased due to the unfavourable exchange rate impacts and the lower net financial
income, partially compensated by the lower effective tax rate.
Net financial income | in millions of CHF
Financing costs Financial income Net financial income
2008 236
2007 834
2006 855
–1,500 –1,000 –500 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 0 200 400 600 800 1,000
Financial income
Financial income was 1,123 million Swiss francs, declining 38% compared to 2007. Interest income and income
from debt securities were 392 million Swiss francs, down 61% due to lower holdings, lower US interest rates
and a weaker US dollar compared to the Swiss franc. Also contributing to the lower result were losses
onthesale of debt securities caused by limited investor demand during the current financial market crisis.
Losses of 64 million Swiss francs were incurred on fixed income securities carried at ‘fair-value-through-
profit-and-loss’, losses of 44 million Swiss francs were incurred on derivatives relating todebt securities, and
impairments of 53 million Swiss francs were recorded on debt securities. Net income from equity securities
was 133 million Swiss francs compared to 313 million Swiss francs in 2007. The result includes impairments of
115 million Swiss francs on equity securities. Funds continue to be invested with aconservative risk profile,
with low exposures to equities. Expected returns on pension plan assets were 688million Swiss francs, up 3%
compared to 2007. Net foreign exchange losses were 65 million Swiss francs compared to losses of 153 mil-
lion Swiss francs in 2007. During the second half of 2008, the erosion of certainemerging market currencies
caused a significant increase in the corresponding hedge expenses. Afullanalysis of financial income is given
in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Financial costs
Financing costs were 887 million Swiss francs, 9% lower compared to 2007 reflecting the redemption of several
debt instruments during 2007 and 2008, as well as a weaker US dollar compared to the Swiss franc. Time costs
of provisions were 21 million Swiss francs, 48 million Swiss francs lower than in 2007, reflecting the settlement
ofthe City of Hope litigation in the second quarter of 2008. The interest cost of pension plans was 652 million
Swiss francs, an increase of 7% compared to 2007, due to changes in discount rates used for actuarial
calculations. A full analysis of financing costs is given in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Income taxes
The Group’s effective tax rate declined to 23.4% compared to the 2007 rate of 25.3%. The main driver is a sig-
nificantly lower tax rate at Roche, with an underlying effective tax rate of 10.1% compared to 15.6% in 2007.
This reflects lower taxable profits in certain high tax jurisdictions and certain one-time effects, notably a
favourable change in tax rates in Basel that was effective in 2008. The improvement is despite an increasing
pre-tax profit contribution from Genentech.
Analysis of the Group’s effective tax rate
2008 2007
Profit Income Profit Income
before tax taxes Tax rate before tax taxes Tax rate
(mCHF) (mCHF) (%) (mCHF) (mCHF) (%)
Roche (excl. Genentech and Chugai) 7,402 (745) 10.1 9,201 (1,436) 15.6
Genentech 6,096 (2,331) 38.2 5,470 (2,189) 40.0
Chugai 663 (241) 36.3 633 (242) 38.2
Group’s effective tax rate 14,161 (3,317) 23.4 15,304 (3,867) 25.321
Net income and Earnings per share
Net income | in billions of CHF Core EPS | in CHF
2008 10.8 11.04
2007 11.4 11.85
2006 9.2 9.86
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 0 2 4 6 8 10 12
In 2008 Group net income decreased by 5% to 10.8 billion Swiss francs. Of the total 1,875million Swiss francs
non-controlling interests,1,659 million Swiss francs are attributable to Genentech non-controlling interests
and 200 million Swiss francs to Chugai non-controlling interests. The net impact ofexceptional items on net
income was minor and had no impact on the net income growth rate or on the absolute amount of 10.8 billion
Swiss francs.
Diluted EPS
2008 2007
(CHF) (CHF) % change
Group 10.23 11.16 –8
Core 11.04 11.85 –7
The decrease in diluted EPS was due to the decrease in net income attributable to Roche shareholders,
asdescribed above. The Core EPS, which excludes exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of
intangible assets, decreased by 7%. In local currencies Core EPS increased by 2%. Supplementary net income
and EPS information is given on page 128. This includes calculations of Core EPS and reconciles these to the
Group’s published IFRS results.
Cash flows and net cash
Free cash flow | in billions of CHF Net cash | in billions of CHF
2008 5.0 16.7
2007 4.0 17.3
2006 4.2 16.1
0 1 2 3 4 5 0 5 10 15 20
Free cash flow
Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Corporate Group
(mCHF) (mCHF) (mCHF) (mCHF)
2008
Operating profit 13,002 1,187 (265) 13,924
Operating profit cash adjustments 1,496 1,122 (7) 2,611
(Increase)/decrease in net working capital (15) (464) (2) (481)
Investments in property, plant and equipment (2,021) (1,237) (1) (3,259)
Investments in intangible assets (409) (8) – (417)
Operating free cash flow 12,053 600 (275) 12,378
Treasury activities 166
Taxes paid (3,514)
Dividends paid (4,051)
Free cash flow 4,979
www.global-reports.com22
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Financial Review
Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Corporate Group
(mCHF) (mCHF) (mCHF) (mCHF)
2007
Operating profit 13,042 1,648 (222) 14,468
Operating profit cash adjustments 829 1,121 (16) 1,934
(Increase)/decrease in net working capital (600) (374) (202) (1,176)
Investments in property, plant and equipment (2,538) (1,069) (2) (3,609)
Investments in intangible assets (689) (257) – (946)
Operating free cash flow 10,044 1,069 (442) 10,671
Treasury activities 832
Taxes paid (4,494)
Dividends paid (3,027)
Free cash flow 3,982
The free cash flow of the Group in 2008 was strong and increased by 1.0 billion Swiss francs to 5.0 billion
Swiss francs. This increase was primarily due to a higher operating free cash flow and lower tax payments.
These factors more than compensated for the lower cash generation from treasury activities and for the
higher dividend payments.
The operating free cash flow increased by 16%, mainly due to significantly lower net cash outflow from equity
compensation plans, despite strong currency translation effects. The underlying business continues with good
cash generation, partly absorbed by growth in net working capital as the business expands. Operating profit
cash adjustments consist of the elimination of depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges and the
replacement of the operating income/expenses for provisions, equity compensation plans and disposals of
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with their cash equivalents. This includes the net impact
of the Group’s equity compensation plans, including cash received from employees upon exercise, cash used
by Roche to purchase own equity for delivery to employees and cash used by Genentech for their stock
repurchase programme which maintains Roche’s ownership percentage. A detailed breakdown of this is pro-
vided on pages 129—130. Operating free cash flow also includes cash movements in working capital and
thecash payments for capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, the latter
mainly arising through in-licensing deals.
Treasury operations showed positive cash generation, mainly from interest income. Cash flows from treasury
activities decreased by 80% due to lower interest received, driven by lower funds held, lower interest rates
and a weaker US dollar against the Swiss franc. Total taxes paid in 2008 decreased considerably compared to
2007 which included significant final settlement payments of previously accrued amounts. Dividend payments
increased by 34%, or 1.0 billion Swiss francs, compared to 2007.
Net cash
Roche Genentech Chugai Group
(mCHF) (mCHF) (mCHF) (mCHF)
31 December 2007
Cash and cash equivalents 1,869 1,157 729 3,755
Marketable securities 14,496 5,209 742 20,447
Long-term debt (1,270) (2,564) – (3,834)
Short-term debt (2,357) (675) – (3,032)
Net cash at beginning of period 12,738 3,127 1,471 17,336
Free cash flow for 2008 1,623 3,392 (36) 4,979
Transactions in own equity instruments (141) – – (141)
Business combinations (2,964) – – (2,964)
Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries (2,219) – – (2,219)
Currency translation, fair value and other movements (707) 275 123 (309)
Net change in net cash (4,408) 3,667 87 (654)23
Roche Genentech Chugai Group
(mCHF) (mCHF) (mCHF) (mCHF)
31 December 2008
Cash and cash equivalents 1,036 3,057 822 4,915
Marketable securities 8,380 6,740 736 15,856
Long-term debt (498) (2,474) – (2,972)
Short-term debt (588) (529) – (1,117)
Net cash at end of period 8,330 6,794 1,558 16,682
Net cash position of the Group is 16.7 billion Swiss francs, down by 0.7 billion Swiss francs during 2008. The
free cash flow of 5.0 billion Swiss francs was primarily used to finance the acquisitions of Ventana (3.8 billion
Swiss francs) and the increase of the ownership in Chugai (0.9 billion Swiss francs). The release of previously
restricted cash relating to the City of Hope litigation at Genentech increased net cash by 0.9 billion Swiss francs,
offsetting the 0.5 billion Swiss francs paid to City of Hope which is included within the operating free cash flow.
The Group also repaid debt of 2.3 billion Swiss francs mainly for the ‘Rodeo’ bonds and the euro-denominated
European Medium Term Notes. This reduced debt and liquid assets, but had no impact on net cash.
Balance sheet
Balance sheet | in billions of CHF
Liabilities Assets Net assets (equity)
2008 53.8
2007 53.4
2006 46.8
–40 –20 0 20 40 60 80 0 10 20 30 40 50 60
Condensed balance sheet
31 December 2008 31 December 2007
(mCHF) (mCHF) % change
Property, plant and equipment 18,190 17,832 +2
Goodwill and intangible assets 15,474 13,181 +17
Other non-current assets 3,821 4,518 –15
Cash and marketable securities 20,771 24,202 –14
Other current assets 17,833 18,632 –4
Total assets 76,089 78,365 –3
Debt (current and non-current) (4,089) (6,866) –40
Other non-current liabilities (7,191) (6,634) +8
Other current liabilities (10,987) (11,422) –4
Total liabilities (22,267) (24,922) –11
Total net assets 53,822 53,443 +1
Capital and reserves attributable to Roche shareholders 44,479 45,483 –2
Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 9,343 7,960 +17
Total equity 53,822 53,443 +1
A full consolidated balance sheet is given on page 30 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
www.global-reports.com24
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Financial Review
Non-current assets | Property, plant and equipment increased due to capital expenditure on new production
facilities by Genentech, the Diagnostics Division and Chugai. This was partly offset by exchange rate impacts,
primarily due to the US dollar and euro being 6% and 10% lower at 31 December 2008 compared to
31December 2007. Goodwill and intangible assets increased by 2.3 billion Swiss francs, mainly from the
Ventana, Piramed, Mirus and ARIUS acquisitions and in-licensing transactions.
Current assets | Within current assets, inventories and accounts receivable were slightly higher in local
currencies, while there was a significant decrease in cash and marketable securities as shown in net cash
above.
Debt | There was a reduction in debt by a further 2.8 billion Swiss francs, of which 1.0 billion Swiss francs
relates to the redemption on maturity of the ‘Rodeo’ Swiss franc bonds and 1.2 billion Swiss francs to the
redemption on maturity of the euro-denominated European Medium Term Notes. Most of the remaining
decrease is due to exchange rate impacts.
Other non-current and current liabilities | The overall balance was stable with an increase of 1.0 billion
Swiss francs in pension obligations being largely offset by the reduction of 0.7 billion Swiss francs in legal and
other provisions following settlements made in 2008, notably at Genentech for the City of Hope litigation.
Total net assets/equity | The most significant movements in equity were the net income of 10.8 billion Swiss
francs and the dividend payments of 4.1 billion Swiss francs, currency translation losses of 3.0 billion Swiss
francs, the impact of the change in ownership interests in Ventana and Chugai of 2.2 billion Swiss francs in
total and the impact of actuarial losses on post-employment plans of 1.5 billion Swiss francs, net of tax.
Strong financial condition | The Group remains solidly financed, with equity (including non-controlling
interests) representing 71% of total assets and 84% of total assets financed long-term.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
Post-employment benefit plans are classified as ‘defined contribution plans’ if the Group pays fixed contribu-
tions into a separate fund or to a third-party financial institution and will have no further legal or constructive
obligation to pay further contributions. In 2008 expenses for the Group’s defined contribution plans were
253million Swiss francs (2007: 259 million Swiss francs).
All other plans are classified as ‘defined benefit plans’, even if the Group’s potential obligation is relatively
minor or has a relatively remote possibility of arising. The funding and asset management of the Group’s vari-
ous defined benefit plans is overseen at a corporate level. Plans are usually established as trusts independent
of the Group and are funded by payments from the Group and by employees, but in some cases the plan is
unfunded and the Group pays pensions to retired employees directly from its own financial resources.
Funding status of defined benefit pension and other post-employment benefit plans
2008 2007
(mCHF) (mCHF)
Funded plans
— Fair value of plan assets 9,438 12,170
— Defined benefit obligation (10,504) (10,646)
— Over (under) funding (1,066) 1,524
Unfunded plans
— Defined benefit obligation (3,078) (3,344)25
Funding status | Overall the Group’s defined benefit plans continue to be adequately funded despite the
financial turbulence during 2008 with the funding status at 90% compared to 114% at the beginning of the
year. The main movements came from a reduction of the fair value of plan assets following declines in global
financial markets.
Expenses recorded in income statement | Total pension expenses in 2008 relating to the Group’s defined
benefit plans were 281 million Swiss francs compared to 312 million Swiss francs in 2007. The decrease of
10% is mainly due to changes in discount rates adopted at the end of 2007. Based on the revised actuarial
assumptions at the end of 2008, total pension expenses for 2009 are expected to increase compared to 2008
due to a lower expected return on plan assets.
Full details of the Group’s pensions and other post-employment benefits are given in Note 10 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Roche securities
The Roche securities performed broadly in line with the MSCI Europe Pharmaceutical Index and the global
pharmaceutical sector.
Share price and market capitalisation (at 31 December)
2008 2007 % change
Share price (CHF) 168.70 213.00 –21
Non-voting equity security (Genussschein)price (CHF) 162.50 195.60 –17
Market capitalisation (billions of CHF) 141 171 –18
Roche ranked number 10 among a peer group of 20 healthcare companies1)as listed below, in terms of Total
Shareholder Return (TSR), i.e. share price growth plus dividends, in 2008 when measured in Swiss francs at
actual exchange rates. Year-end return was –19% for the Roche share and –15% for the Roche non-voting
equity security. The combined performance of share and non-voting equity security was –16% compared to
aweighted average return for the peer group of –18% at actual exchange rates.
1) Peer group for 2008: Abbott Laboratories, Amgen, Astellas, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Becton Dickinson, Biogen Idec, Bristol-Myers Squibb,
Eli Lilly, Gilead, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co., Novartis, Pfizer, Roche, Sanofi-Aventis, Schering-Plough, Takeda,
Wyeth.
Total Shareholder Return development | in %
10
5
0
–5
–10
–15
–20
–25
31 Dec. 07 31 March 08 30 June 08 30 Sept. 08 31 Dec. 08
Roche share Roche GS Peer Set Index
www.global-reports.com26
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Financial Review
Proposed dividend
The Board of Directors is proposing an increase of 9% in the dividend for 2008 to 5.00 Swiss francs per share
and non-voting equity security (2007: 4.60 Swiss francs) for approval at the Annual General Meeting. This is
the 22ndconsecutive increase in the dividend. If the dividend proposal is approved by shareholders, dividend
payments on the shares and non-voting equity securities in issue will amount to 4.3 billion Swiss francs
(2007:4.0 billion Swiss francs), resulting in a payout ratio of 49% (2007: 41%). Based on the prices at year-
end2008, the dividend yield on the Roche share is 3.0% (2007: 2.2%) and the yield on the non-voting equity
security is 3.1% (2007: 2.4%). Further information on the Roche securities is given on pages 131—132 of the
Finance Report.
Information per share and non-voting equity security
2008 2007
(CHF) (CHF) % change
Basic EPS 10.43 11.36 –8
Diluted EPS 10.23 11.16 –8
Core EPS 11.04 11.85 –7
Equity attributable to Roche shareholders per share 51.74 52.87 –2
Dividend per share 5.00 4.60 +9
For further details please refer to Notes 28 and 29 of the Consolidated Financial Statements and page 128
ofthe Finance Report.
Financial risks
The Group manages its financial assets and liabilities in a conservative way, with Treasury activities servicing
the Group’s business requirements without materially affecting the Group’s risk profile.
Asset allocation | Surplus liquid funds are either held as cash or are invested in high-quality, investment
grade fixed income securities. The majority holdings are in liquid, short term instruments with maturities
ofupto three months. On some longer-term holdings, Roche experiences wider credit spreads and reduced
liquidity caused by the current financial markets situation. During the first quarter of 2008, Roche sold
almostall remaining equity positions classified as marketable securities. Their share declined to less than
onepercent (31 December 2007: 1%) of total liquid funds. In addition, the Group owns equity securities
classified as financial long-term assets (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) which are
venture capital positions in connection with the Group’s strategic alliance efforts. These positions total
0.6 billion Swiss francs (31 December 2007: 0.8 billion Swiss francs).
Cash and marketable securities
2008 2008 2007 2007
(mCHF) (% of total) (mCHF) (% of total)
Cash and cash equivalents 4,915 24 3,755 16
Money market instruments 7,961 38 11,132 46
Bonds, debentures and other investments 7,844 38 9,023 37
Shares 51 0 292 1
Total cash and marketable securities 20,771 100 24,202 10027
Credit risk | Credit risk arises from the possibility that counterparties to transactions may default on their
obligations, causing financial losses for the Group. Despite significant market difficulties in 2008, the rating
profile of the Group’s 20.7 billion Swiss francs fixed income marketable securities remained strong, with
96%being invested in the A-AAA range. The counterparty profile of the Group’s 9.8 billion Swiss francs
tradereceivables remains well diversified across types of customer and regions, with some wholesaler
concentration in the US.
Market risks | Market risk arises from changing market prices of the Group’s financial assets or financial
liabilities. The exposures are predominantly related to changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and
equity prices. The Group uses Value-at-Risk (VaR) to assess the impact of market risk on its financial
instruments. VaR data indicates the value range within which a given financial instrument will fluctuate with
apre-set probability as a result of movements in market prices. The VaR data in the table below indicate
theloss level over a period of one month which with 95% probability will not be exceeded. Actual future
gainsand losses associated with our treasury activities may differ materially from the VAR analyses
performeddue to the inherent limitations associated with predicting the timing and amount of changes
tointerest rates, foreign currency exchanges rates and equity investment prices, particularly in periods of
highmarket volatilities. Furthermore, the VaR numbers below do not include a credit risk component.
Market risk of financial instruments
31 December 2008 31 December 2007
(mCHF) (mCHF)
VaR — Foreign exchange component 96 75
VaR — Interest rate component 27 40
VaR — Other price component 62 93
Diversification (52) (65)
VaR — Total 133 143
At 31 December 2008, the total VaR of the financial assets and liabilities was 133 million Swiss francs
(31December 2007: 143 million Swiss francs). The foreign exchange VaR increased and comes mainly from
hedging of non-US dollar cash flows from future royalty income over the next five years at Genentech.
Thelower contribution from the interest rate component was caused by the ageing of fixed-term liabilities.
Other price risk arises mainly from movements in the prices of equity securities. The decrease of the other
price component is due to the significantly reduced equity security holdings. At 31 December 2008, the
Group held equity securities with a market value of 0.6 billion Swiss Francs (31 December 2007: 1.1 billion
Swiss francs). This number includes holdings in biotechnology companies, which were acquired in the
contextof licensing transactions or scientific collaborations. The lower holdings in equity securities resulted
ina lower VaR for other price risk.
Further information on financial risk management and financial risks and the VaR methodology is included
inNote 32 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
International Financial Reporting Standards
The Roche Group has been using International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) to report its con-
solidated results since 1990. The Group has made changes to its accounting policies with respect to new
andrevised International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations. The Group has implemented
therevised versions of IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ and IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial
Statements’. The main impacts of these on the 2008 results are that transaction costs from business
combinations are now expensed instead of being included as part of the acquisition price. The Group has
alsoimplemented IFRIC interpretation 14 which relates to IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’ which results in
anincrease in the pension assets recorded on the Group’s balance sheet and a corresponding increase
intheGroup’s equity.
www.global-reports.com28
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Roche Group
Consolidated Financial Statements
Roche Group consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2008 | in millions of CHF
Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Corporate Group
Sales2 35,961 9,656 – 45,617
Royalties and other operating income2 2,148 139 – 2,287
Cost of sales (8,963) (4,698) – (13,661)
Marketing and distribution (6,696) (2,474) – (9,170)
Research and development2 (7,904) (941) – (8,845)
General and administration (1,572) (495) (265) (2,332)
Operating profit before exceptional items2 12,974 1,187 (265) 13,896
Major legal cases25 271 – – 271
Changes in Group organisation8 (243) – – (243)
Operating profit2 13,002 1,187 (265) 13,924
Associates15 1
Financial income5 1,123
Financing costs5 (887)
Profit before taxes 14,161
Income taxes6 (3,317)
Net income 10,844
Attributable to
— Roche shareholders 8,969
— Non-controlling interests 1,875
Earnings per share and non-voting equity security29
Basic (CHF) 10.43
Diluted (CHF) 10.23
Reference numbers indicate corresponding Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.29
Roche Group consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2007 | in millions of CHF
Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Corporate Group
Sales2 36,783 9,350 – 46,133
Royalties and other operating income2 2,057 186 – 2,243
Cost of sales (9,502) (4,241) – (13,743)
Marketing and distribution (7,018) (2,309) – (9,327)
Research and development2 (7,598) (787) – (8,385)
General and administration (1,680) (551) (222) (2,453)
Operating profit2 13,042 1,648 (222) 14,468
Associates15 2
Financial income5 1,805
Financing costs5 (971)
Profit before taxes 15,304
Income taxes6 (3,867)
Net income 11,437
Attributable to
— Roche shareholders 9,761
— Non-controlling interests 1,676
Earnings per share and non-voting equity security29
Basic (CHF) 11.36
Diluted (CHF) 11.16
www.global-reports.com30
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Roche Group consolidated balance sheet | in millions of CHF
31 December 31 December
2008 2007
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment12 18,190 17,832
Goodwill13 8,353 6,835
Intangible assets14 7,121 6,346
Associates15 9 9
Financial long-term assets16 940 1,333
Other long-term assets16 451 527
Deferred income tax assets6 1,829 1,317
Post-employment benefit assets10 592 1,332
Total non-current assets 37,485 35,531
Current assets
Inventories17 5,830 6,113
Accounts receivable18 9,755 9,804
Current income tax assets6 268 263
Other current assets19 1,980 2,452
Marketable securities20 15,856 20,447
Cash and cash equivalents21 4,915 3,755
Total current assets 38,604 42,834
Total assets 76,089 78,365
Non-current liabilities
Long-term debt27 (2,972) (3,834)
Deferred income tax liabilities6 (1,409) (1,527)
Post-employment benefit liabilities10 (4,669) (3,696)
Provisions25 (654) (688)
Other non-current liabilities26 (459) (723)
Total non-current liabilities (10,163) (10,468)
Current liabilities
Short-term debt27 (1,117) (3,032)
Current income tax liabilities6 (2,193) (2,215)
Provisions25 (804) (1,517)
Accounts payable22 (2,017) (1,861)
Accrued and other current liabilities23 (5,973) (5,829)
Total current liabilities (12,104) (14,454)
Total liabilities (22,267) (24,922)
Total net assets 53,822 53,443
Equity
Capital and reserves attributable to Roche shareholders28 44,479 45,483
Equity attributable to non-controlling interests30 9,343 7,960
Total equity 53,822 53,443
As disclosed in Note 1, post-employment benefit assets, deferred tax liabilities and equity have been restatedin the 31 December 2007
balance sheet following the adoption of IFRIC interpretation 14 in 2008. Areconciliation to the previously published balance sheet is
provided in Note 1.31
Roche Group consolidated cash flow statement | in millions of CHF
Year ended 31 December
2008 2007
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations31 17,626 18,480
(Increase) decrease in working capital (524) (1,207)
Payments made for defined benefit post-employment plans10 (353) (352)
Utilisation of provisions25 (1,061) (696)
Other operating cash flows 3 (3)
Cash flows from operating activities, before income taxes paid 15,691 16,222
Income taxes paid (3,514) (4,494)
Total cash flows from operating activities 12,177 11,728
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (3,139) (3,519)
Purchase of intangible assets (418) (946)
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 69 116
Disposal of intangible assets – –
Disposal of products 472 247
Business combinations7 (3,004) (2,310)
Divestments of subsidiaries34 40 –
Interest and dividends received31 611 1,079
Sales of marketable securities 16,666 13,165
Purchases of marketable securities (12,758) (13,377)
Other investing cash flows (261) (243)
Total cash flows from investing activities (1,722) (5,788)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of long-term debt instruments27 – 719
Repayment and redemption of long-term debt instruments27 (2,188) (1,908)
Increase (decrease) in other long-term debt (234) 4
Increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings (190) (389)
Transactions in own equity instruments28 (98) 1,085
Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries
— Chugai4 (934) –
— Ventana7 (1,285) –
Interest and dividends paid31 (4,267) (3,324)
Exercises of equity-settled equity compensation plans11 598 450
Genentech and Chugai share repurchases3,4 (844) (1,895)
Other financing cash flows – (12)
Total cash flows from financing activities (9,442) (5,270)
Net effect of currency translation on cash and cash equivalents 147 (125)
Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 1,160 545
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 3,755 3,210
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December21 4,915 3,755
www.global-reports.com32
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Roche Group consolidated statement of recognised income and expense | in millions of CHF
Year ended 31 December
2008 2007
Available-for-sale investments
— Valuation gains (losses) taken to equity28 (671) (198)
— Transferred to income statement on sale or impairment28 163 (128)
Cash flow hedges
— Gains (losses) taken to equity28 (55) (45)
— Transferred to income statement28 83 (3)
— Transferred to the initial balance sheet carrying value of hedged items28 – –
Currency translation of foreign operations
— Exchange differences28 (2,982) (1,906)
— Accumulated differences transferred to income statement on divestment28 (16) –
Defined benefit post-employment plans
— Actuarial gains (losses)28 (2,820) 1,178
— Limit on asset recognition28 636 (636)
Income taxes on items taken directly to or transferred from equity28 738 (214)
Net income recognised directly in equity (4,924) (1,952)
Net income recognised in income statement 10,844 11,437
Total recognised income and expense 5,920 9,485
Attributable to
— Roche shareholders28 4,285 8,341
— Non-controlling interests30 1,635 1,144
Total 5,920 9,485
Effect of changes in accounting policy attributable to
— Roche shareholders1 – 297
— Non-controlling interests1 – –
Total – 297
As disclosed in Note 1, the entries for defined benefit post-employment plans have been restated in the statement of recognised income
and expense for 2007 following the adoption of IFRIC interpretation 14 in 2008. A reconciliation to the previously published statement
ofrecognised income and expense is provided in Note 1.33
Roche Group consolidated statement of changes in equity | in millions of CHF
Roche Non-controlling
shareholders interests Total
Year ended 31 December 2007
At 1 January 2007 — as previously published 39,444 7,370 46,814
Changes in accounting policy1 297 – 297
At 1 January 2007 — restated 39,741 7,370 47,111
Net income recognised directly in equity (1,420) (532) (1,952)
Net income recognised in income statement 9,761 1,676 11,437
Total recognised income and expense 8,341 1,144 9,485
Dividends paid28, 30 (2,930) (97) (3,027)
Transactions in own equity instruments28 1,085 – 1,085
Equity compensation plans28,30 559 449 1,008
Genentech and Chugai share repurchases28,30 (1,044) (851) (1,895)
Convertible debt instruments28,30 (324) – (324)
Changes in non-controlling interests28,30 55 (55) –
At 31 December 2007 45,483 7,960 53,443
Year ended 31 December 2008
At 1 January 2008 45,483 7,960 53,443
Net income recognised directly in equity (4,684) (240) (4,924)
Net income recognised in income statement 8,969 1,875 10,844
Total recognised income and expense 4,285 1,635 5,920
Ventana acquisition7 – 321 321
Dividends paid28,30 (3,969) (95) (4,064)
Transactions in own equity instruments28 (98) – (98)
Equity compensation plans28,30 789 574 1,363
Genentech and Chugai share repurchases28,30 (472) (372) (844)
Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries
— Chugai4 (530) (404) (934)
— Ventana7 (964) (321) (1,285)
Changes in non-controlling interests28,30 (45) 45 –
At 31 December 2008 44,479 9,343 53,822
As disclosed in Note 1, equity as at 1 January 2007 and the entries for defined benefit post-employment plans have been restated
inthestatement of recognised income and expense for 2007 following the adoption of IFRIC interpretation 14 in 2008. A reconciliation
tothe previously published statement of recognised income and expense is provided in Note 1.
www.global-reports.com34
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated
Financial Statements
1. Summary of significant accounting policies
Basis of preparation of the consolidated financial statements
The consolidated financial statements of the Roche Group have been prepared in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and comply with Swiss law. They have been prepared
using the historical cost convention except that, as disclosed in the accounting policies below, certain
items,including derivatives and available-for-sale investments, are shown at fair value. They were approved
for issue by the Board of Directors on 29 January 2009 and are subject to approval by the Annual General
Meeting of shareholders on 10 March 2009.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure
of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements. If in the future such estimates and assumptions,
which are based on management’s best judgement at the date of the financial statements, deviate from the
actual circumstances, the original estimates and assumptions will be modified as appropriate in the year
inwhich the circumstances change.
Changes in accounting policies that arise from the application of new or revised standards and interpreta-
tions are applied retrospectively, unless otherwise specified in the transitional requirements of the particular
standard or interpretation. Retrospective application requires that the results ofthe comparative period and
the opening balances of that period are restated as if the new accounting policy had always been applied.
Insome cases the transitional requirements of the particular standard or interpretation specify that the
changes are to be applied prospectively. Prospective application requires that the new accounting policy
onlybe applied to the results of the current period and the comparative period isnot restated. In addition
comparatives have been reclassified or extended from the previously reported results to take into account
anypresentational changes.
Consolidation policy
These financial statements are the consolidated financial statements of Roche Holding Ltd, a company
registered in Switzerland, and its subsidiaries (‘the Group’).
The subsidiaries are those companies controlled, directly or indirectly, by Roche Holding Ltd, where control
isdefined as the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise so as to obtain benefits
from its activities. This control is normally evidenced when Roche Holding Ltd owns, either directly or
indirectly, more than 50% of the voting rights or currently exercisable potential voting rights of a company’s
share capital. Special Purpose Entities are consolidated where the substance of the relationship is that the
Special Purpose Entity is controlled by the Group. Companies acquired during the year are consolidated from
the date on which control is transferred to the Group, and subsidiaries to be divested are included up to
thedate on which control passes from the Group. Inter-company balances, transactions and resulting
unrealised income are eliminated in full. Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries are accounted for
asequity transactions if they occur after control has already been obtained and if they do not result in
alossof control.
Reference numbers indicate corresponding Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.35
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method. These are companies over which the
Group exercises, or has the power to exercise, significant influence, but which it does not control. This is
normally evidenced when the Group owns 20% or more of the voting rights or currently exercisable potential
voting rights of the company. Balances and transactions with associates that result in unrealised income
areeliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the associate. Interests in joint ventures are reported
using the line-by-line proportionate consolidation method.
Segment reporting
The determination of the Group’s operating segments is based on the organisation units for which infor-
mationis reported to the Group’s management. The Group has two divisions, Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics.
Revenues are primarily generated from the sale of prescription pharmaceutical products anddiagnostic
instruments, reagents and consumables, respectively. Both divisions also derive revenue from the sale or
licensing of products or technology to third parties. Within the Pharmaceuticals Division there are three sub-
divisions, Roche Pharmaceuticals, Genentech and Chugai. The three sub-divisions have separate management
and reporting structures within the Pharmaceuticals Division and are considered separately reportable operat-
ing segments. Certain headquarter activities are reported as ‘Corporate’. These consist ofcorporate
headquarters, including the Corporate Executive Committee, corporate communications, corporate human
resources, corporate finance, including treasury, taxes and pension fund management, corporate legal and
corporate safety and environmental services.
Transfer prices between operating segments are set on an arm’s length basis. Operating assets and liabi-
litiesconsist of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, trade receivables/payables,
inventories and other assets and liabilities, such as provisions, which can be reasonably attributed to the
reported operating segments. Non-operating assets and liabilities mainly include current and deferred income
tax balances, post-employment benefit assets/liabilities and financial assets/liabilities such as cash,
marketable securities, investments and debt.
Foreign currency translation
Most Group companies use their local currency as their functional currency. Certain Group companies use
other currencies (such as US dollars, Swiss francs or euros) as their functional currency where this is the
currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates. Local transactions in other
currencies are initially reported using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Gains and losses from
the settlement of such transactions and gains and losses on translation of monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in other currencies are included in income, except when they are qualifying cash flow hedges
orarise on monetary items that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in a foreign entity.
Insuch cases the gains and losses are deferred into equity.
Upon consolidation, assets and liabilities of Group companies using functional currencies other than Swiss
francs (foreign entities) are translated into Swiss francs using year-end rates of exchange. Sales, costs,
expenses, net income and cash flows are translated at the average rates of exchange for the year. Translation
differences due to the changes in exchange rates between the beginning and the end of the year and the
difference between net income translated at the average and year-end exchange rates are taken directly to
equity. On disposal of a foreign entity, the identified cumulative currency translation differences within equity
relating to that foreign entity are recognised in income as part of the gain or loss on divestment.
Revenues
Sales represent amounts received and receivable for goods supplied to customers after deducting trade
discounts, cash discounts and volume rebates, and exclude value added taxes and other taxes directly linked
to sales. Revenues from the sale of products are recognised upon transfer to the customer of significant
risksand rewards. Trade discounts, cash discounts and volume rebates are recorded on an accrual basis
consistent with the recognition of the related sales. Estimates of expected sales returns, charge-backs and
other rebates, including Medicaid in the United States and similar rebates in other countries, are also
deducted from sales and recorded as accrued liabilities or provisions or as a deduction from accounts receiv-
able. Such estimates are based on analyses of existing contractual or legislatively mandated obligations,
historical trends and the Group’s experience. Other revenues are recorded as earned or as the services are
www.global-reports.com36
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
performed. Where necessary, single transactions are split into separately identifiable components to reflect
the substance of the transaction. Conversely, two or more transactions may be considered together for
revenue recognition purposes, where the commercial effect cannot be understood without reference to the
series of transactions as a whole.
Cost of sales
Cost of sales includes the corresponding direct production costs and related production overheads of
goodssold and services rendered. Royalties, alliance and collaboration expenses, including all collaboration
profit-sharing arrangements are also reported as part of cost of sales. Start-up costs between validation
andthe achievement of normal production capacity are expensed as incurred.
Research and development
In addition to its internal research and development activities, the Group is also party to in-licensing and
similar arrangements with its alliance partners. The Group may also acquire in-process research and develop-
ment assets, either through business combinations or through purchases of specific assets.
Internal research costs are charged against income as incurred. Internal development costs are capitalised
asintangible assets only when there is an identifiable asset that can be completed and that will generate
probable future economic benefits and when the cost of such an asset can be measured reliably. The Group
does not currently have any such internal development costs that qualify for capitalisation as intangible
assets. Internal development costs are therefore charged against income as incurred since the criteria for
their recognition as an asset are not met.
In-process research and development assets acquired either through in-licensing arrangements, business
combinations or separate purchases are capitalised as intangible assets as described below. Once available
for use, such intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of the expected benefit
and are reviewed for impairment at each reporting date.
Licensing, milestone and other upfront receipts and payments
Royalty income is recognised on an accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the respective licensing
agreements. If the collectability of a royalty amount is not reasonably assured, those royalties are recognised
as revenue when the cash is received. Certain Group companies receive from third parties upfront, milestone
and other similar payments relating to the sale or licensing of products or technology. Revenue associated
with performance milestones is recognised based on achievement of the deliverables as defined in the
respective agreements. Upfront payments and licence fees for which there are subsequent deliverables are
initially reported as deferred income and are recognised in income as earned over the period of the develop-
ment collaboration or the manufacturing obligation.
Payments made by Group companies to third parties and associates for such items are capitalised as
intangible assets.
Accounting and reporting of transactions between Roche, Genentech and Chugai
Within the Group’s consolidated financial statements, transactions and balances between consolidated
subsidiaries, such as between Genentech, Chugai and other Roche Group subsidiaries, are eliminated on
consolidation.
Genentech and Chugai are considered separately reportable operating segments for the purposes of the
Group’s operating segment disclosures in Note 2. Additional information relating to Genentech and Chugai
results is given in Notes 3 and 4, respectively.
Profits on product sales between the Roche Pharmaceuticals, Genentech and Chugai operating segments
arerecorded as part of the segment results of the operating segment making the sale. Unrealised internal
profits on inventories that have been sold by one operating segment to another but which have not yet
beensold on to external customers as at the balance sheet date are eliminated as a consolidation entry
ataPharmaceuticals Division level.37
Additionally the results of each operating segment may include income received from another operating
segment in respect of:
• Royalties.
• Licensing, milestone and other upfront payments.
• Transfers in respect of research collaborations.
These are recognised as income in the segment results of the operating segment receiving the income
consistently with the accounting policies applied to third-party transactions and set out in these financial
statements. Corresponding expenses are recorded in the other operating segment so that these eliminate
ataPharmaceuticals Division level.
Employee benefits
Wages, salaries, social security contributions, paid annual leave and sick leave, bonuses, and non-monetary
benefits are accrued in the year in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Group.
Where the Group provides long-term employee benefits, the cost is accrued to match the rendering of
theservices by the employees concerned. Liabilities for long-term employee benefits are discounted to take
into account the time value of money, where material.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
Most employees are covered by defined benefit and defined contribution post-employment plans sponsored
by Group companies. The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to the appropriate
income statement heading within the operating results in the year to which they relate. The accounting and
reporting of defined benefit plans are based on recent actuarial valuations. The defined benefit obligations
and service costs are calculated using the projected unit credit method. This reflects service rendered by
employees to the dates of valuation and incorporates actuarial assumptions primarily regarding discount rates
used in determining the present value of benefits, projected rates of remuneration growth and long-term
expected rates of return for plan assets. Discount rates are based on the market yields of high-quality corpo-
rate bonds in the country concerned. Past service costs are allocated over the average period until the
benefits become vested. Current and past service costs are charged to the appropriate income statement
heading within the operating results. Pension plan administration and funding is overseen at a corporate
leveland any settlement gains and losses resulting from changes in funding arrangements are reported as
general and administration expenses within the ‘Corporate’ segment. The expected returns on plan assets and
interest costs are charged to financial income and financing costs, respectively. Actuarial gains and losses,
which consist of differences between assumptions and actual experiences and the effects of changes in
actuarial assumptions, are recorded directly in equity. Pension assets and liabilities in different defined benefit
plans are not offset unless the Group has a legally enforceable right to use the surplus in one plan to settle
obligations in the other plan. The recognition of pension assets is limited to the total of the present value
ofany future refunds from the plans or reductions in future contributions to the plans and any cumulative
unrecognised past service costs. Adjustments arising from the limit on the recognition of assets for defined
benefit plans are recorded directly in equity.
Equity compensation plans
Certain employees of the Group participate in equity compensation plans, including separate plans at
Genentech and Chugai. The fair value of all equity compensation awards granted to employees is estimated
atthe grant date and recorded as an expense over the vesting period. The expense is charged to the appro-
priate income statement heading within the operating results. For equity-settled plans, an increase in equity
isrecorded for this expense and any subsequent cash flows from exercises of vested awards are recorded
aschanges in equity. For cash-settled plans, a liability is recorded, which is measured at fair value at each
balance sheet date with any movements in fair value being recorded to the appropriate income statement
heading within the operating results. Any subsequent cash flows from exercise of vested awards are recorded
as a reduction of the liability.
www.global-reports.com38
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are initially recorded at cost of purchase or construction, and include all
costsdirectly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable
ofoperating in the manner intended by management. These include items such as costs of site preparation,
installation and assembly costs and professional fees. The net costs of testing whether the asset is functioning
properly, including validation costs, are also included in the initially recorded cost of construction. Interest
and other borrowing costs incurred with respect to qualifying assets are capitalised and included in the
carrying value of the assets.
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis, except for land, which is not
depreciated. Estimated useful lives of major classes of depreciable assets are as follows:
Land improvements 40 years
Buildings 10—50 years
Machinery and equipment 5—15 years
Diagnostic instruments 3—5 years
Office equipment 3 years
Motor vehicles 5 years
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as
separate components. The estimated useful life of the assets is regularly reviewed and, if necessary, the future
depreciation charge is accelerated. Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
Leases
Where the Group is the lessee, leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all
of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the
start of the lease at fair value, or the present value of the minimum lease payments, if lower. The rental obliga-
tion, net of finance charges, is reported within debt. Assets acquired under finance leases are depreciated
inaccordance with the Group’s policy on property, plant and equipment. If there is no reasonable certainty
that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter
ofthe lease term and its useful life. The interest element of the lease payment is charged against income
overthe lease term based on the effective interest rate method. Leases where substantially all of the risks
andrewards of ownership are not transferred to the Group are classified as operating leases. Payments made
under operating leases are charged against income on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Where the Group is the lessor, which primarily occurs in the Diagnostics Division, assets subject to finance
leases are initially reported as receivables at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease. Assets
subject to operating leases are reported within property, plant and equipment. Lease income from finance
leases is subsequently recognised as earned income over the term of the lease based on the effective interest
rate method. Lease income from operating leases is recognised over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
Business combinations and goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. The cost of acquisition is
the consideration given in exchange for control over the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities
of the acquired company. This consideration includes the cash paid plus the fair value at the date of exchange
of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group. Contingent con-
sideration arrangements are included in cost of acquisition at fair value. Directly attributable transaction costs
are expensed in the current period and reported within general and administration expenses. The acquired
net assets, being the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, are initially recognised at fair
value. Where the Group does not acquire 100% ownership of the acquired company non-controlling interests
are recorded as the proportion of the fair value of the acquired net assets attributable to the non-controlling
interest. Goodwill is recorded as the surplus of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in the fair
value of the acquired net assets. Any goodwill and fair value adjustments are recorded as assets and liabil-
ities of the acquired company in the functional currency of that company. Goodwill is not amortised, but is
assessed for possible impairment at each balance sheet date and is additionally tested annually for impairment.39
Goodwill may also arise upon investments in associates, being the surplus of the cost of investment over
theGroup’s share of the fair value of the net identifiable assets. Such goodwill is recorded within investments
in associates. Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions if they
occur after control has already been obtained and if they do not result in a loss of control.
Intangible assets
Purchased patents, licences, trademarks and other intangible assets are initially recorded at cost. Where
theseassets have been acquired through a business combination, this will be the fair value allocated in
theacquisition accounting. Intangible assets are amortised over their useful lives on a straight-line basis
beginning from the point when they are available for use. Estimated useful life is the lower of the legal
duration and the economic useful life. The estimated useful life of intangible assets is regularly reviewed.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
An impairment assessment is carried out when there is evidence that an asset may be impaired. In addition
intangible assets that are not yet available for use are tested for impairment annually. When the recoverable
amount of an asset, being the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, is less than its
carrying value, then the carrying value is reduced to its recoverable amount. This reduction is reported in the
income statement as an impairment loss. Value in use is calculated using estimated cash flows, generally
overa five-year period, with extrapolating projections for subsequent years. These are discounted using an
appropriate long-term pre-tax interest rate. When an impairment loss arises, the useful life of the asset in
question is reviewed and, if necessary, the future depreciation/amortisation charge is accelerated. The
impairment of financial assets is discussed below in the ‘Financial assets’ policy.
Impairment of goodwill
Goodwill is assessed for possible impairment at each balance sheet date and is additionally tested annually
for impairment. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units as described in Note 13. When the recoverable
amount of the cash-generating unit, being the higher of its fair value less costs to sell or its value in use,
isless than its carrying value, then the carrying value of the goodwill is reduced to its recoverable amount.
This reduction is reported in the income statement as an impairment loss. The methodology used in the
impairment testing is further described in Note 13.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of finished goods and work in
process includes raw materials, direct labour and other directly attributable costs and overheads based
uponthe normal capacity of production facilities. Cost is determined using the weighted average method.
Netrealisable value is the estimated selling price less cost to completion and selling expenses.
Accounts receivable
Accounts receivable are carried at the original invoice amount less allowances made for doubtful accounts,
trade discounts, cash discounts, volume rebates and similar allowances. An allowance for doubtful accounts is
recorded for the difference between the carrying value and the recoverable amount where there is objective
evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due. Trade discounts, cash discounts, volume
rebates and similar allowances are recorded on an accrual basis consistent with the recognition of the related
sales, using estimates based on existing contractual obligations, historical trends and the Group’s experience.
Long-term accounts receivable are discounted to take into account the time value of money, where material.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and time, call and current balances with banks and similar
institutions. Such balances are only reported as cash if they are readily convertible to known amounts of cash,
are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have a maturity of three months or less from the date
of acquisition. This definition is also used for the cash flow statement.
www.global-reports.com40
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Provisions
Provisions are recognised where a legal or constructive obligation has been incurred which will probably
leadto an outflow of resources that can be reasonably estimated. In particular, restructuring provisions are
recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan that has either commenced implementation or been
announced. Provisions are recorded for the estimated ultimate liability that is expected to arise, taking into
account foreign currency effects arising from their translation from their functional currency into Swiss francs
and the time value of money, where material. A contingent liability is disclosed where the existence of the
obligation will only be confirmed by future events or where the amount of the obligation cannot be measured
with reasonable reliability. Contingent assets are not recognised, but are disclosed where an inflow of
economic benefits is probable.
Fair values
Fair value is the amount for which a financial asset, liability or instrument could be exchanged between
knowledgeable and willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. It is determined by reference to quoted
market prices or by the use of established valuation techniques such as option pricing models and the
discounted cash flow method if quoted prices in an active market are not available. Valuation techniques are
typically used for derivative financial instruments. The fair values of financial assets and liabilities at the
balance sheet date are not materially different from their reported carrying values unless specifically
mentioned in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Financial assets
Financial assets, principally investments, including marketable securities, are classified as either ‘Fair-value-
through-profit-or-loss’, ‘Available-for-sale’, ‘Held-to-maturity’ or ‘Loans and receivables’. Fair-value-through-
profit-or-loss financial assets are either classified as held-for-trading or designated upon initial recognition.
Held-for-trading financial assets are acquired principally to generate profit from short-term fluctuations in
price. Financial assets are designated as fair-value-through-profit-or-loss if doing so results in more relevant
information by eliminating a measurement or recognition inconsistency. Held-to-maturity financial assets
aresecurities with a fixed maturity that the Group has the intent and ability to hold until maturity. Loans and
receivables are financial assets created by the Group or acquired from the issuer in a primary market.
Theyare non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active
market. All other financial assets are considered to be available-for-sale.
All financial assets are initially recorded at fair value, including transaction costs, except for assets at
fair-value-through-profit-or-loss, which exclude transaction costs. All purchases and sales are recognised
onthe settlement date. Fair-value-through-profit-or-loss financial assets are subsequently carried at fair
value, with all changes in fair value recorded as financial income in the period in which they arise. Held-to-
maturity financial assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Available-for-sale financial assets are subsequently carried at fair value, with all unrealised changes in fair
value recorded in equity except for interest calculated using the effective interest rate method and foreign
exchange components. When the available-for-sale financial assets are sold, impaired or otherwise disposed
of, thecumulative gains and losses previously recognised in equity are included in financial income for the
current period. Loans and receivables are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective
interestrate method.
Financial assets are individually assessed for possible impairment at each balance sheet date. An impair-
ment charge is recorded where there is objective evidence of impairment, such as where the issuer is in
bankruptcy, default or other significant financial difficulty. In addition any available-for-sale equity securities
that have a market value of more than 25% below their original cost, net of any previous impairment, will be
considered as impaired. Any available-for-sale equity securities that have a market value below their original
cost, net of any previous impairment, for a sustained six-month period will also be considered as impaired.
Any decreases in the market price of less than 25% of original cost, net of any previous impairment, which
arealso for less than a sustained six-month period are not by themselves considered as objective evidence
ofimpairment. Such movements in fair value are recorded in equity until there is objective evidence of impair-
ment or until the asset is sold or otherwise disposed of. For financial assets carried at amortised cost, any
impairment charge is the difference between the carrying value and the recoverable amount, calculated41
usingestimated future cash flows discounted using the original effective interest rate. For available-for-sale
financialassets, any impairment charge is the amount currently carried in equity for the difference between
the original cost, net of any previous impairment, and the fair value. An impairment loss is reversed if the
reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised. For debt
securities measured at amortised cost or available-for-sale, the reversal is recognised in income. For equity
securities held available-for-sale, the reversal is recognised directly in equity.
A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual cash flows from the asset expire or when the Group
transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows from the financial assets in a transaction in which
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred. Any interest in trans-
ferred financial assets that is created or retained by the Group is recognised as a separate asset or liability.
Derivatives
Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded and subsequently carried at fair value. Apart from those
derivatives designated as qualifying cash flow hedging instruments as discussed in the ‘Hedging’ policy
below, all changes in fair value are recorded as financial income in the period in which they arise. Embedded
derivatives are recognised separately if not closely related to the host contract and where the host contract
iscarried at amortised cost.
Hedging
For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedging relationships may be of three types. Fair value hedges are
hedges of particular risks that may change the fair value of a recognised asset or liability. Cash flow hedges
are hedges of particular risks that may change the amount or timing of future cash flows. Hedges of net
investment in a foreign entity are hedges of particular risks that may change the carrying value of the net
assets of a foreign entity.
To qualify for hedge accounting the hedging relationship must meet several strict conditions on documenta-
tion, probability of occurrence (for cash flow hedges), hedge effectiveness and reliability of measurement.
Ifthese conditions are not met, then the relationship does not qualify for hedge accounting. In this case the
hedging instrument and the hedged item are reported independently as if there were no hedging relationship.
In particular any derivatives are reported at fair value, with changes in fair value included in financial income.
For qualifying fair value hedges, the hedging instrument is recorded at fair value and the hedged item
isrecorded at its previous carrying value, adjusted for any changes in fair value that are attributable to the
hedged risk. Any changes in the fair values are reported in financial income.
For qualifying cash flow hedges, the hedging instrument is recorded at fair value. The portion of any change
in fair value that is an effective hedge is included in equity, and any remaining ineffective portion is reported
infinancial income. If the hedging relationship is the hedge of the foreign currency risk of a firm commitment
or highly probable forecasted transaction that results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability,
thecumulative changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument that have been recorded in equity are
included in the initial carrying value of the asset or liability at the date of recognition. For all other qualifying
cash flow hedges, the cumulative changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument that have been
recordedin equity are included in financial income when the forecasted transaction affects net income.
For qualifying hedges of net investment in a foreign entity, the hedging instrument is recorded at fair
value.The portion of any change in fair value that is an effective hedge is included in equity. Any remain-
ing ineffective portion is recorded in financial income where the hedging instrument is a derivative and in
equity in other cases. If the entity is disposed of, then the cumulative changes of fair value of the hedging
instrumentthat have been recorded in equity are reclassified to income.
www.global-reports.com42
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Debt instruments
Debt instruments are initially recorded at cost, which is the proceeds received, net of transaction costs. Sub-
sequently they are reported at amortised cost. Any discount between the net proceeds received and the
principal value due on redemption is amortised over the duration of the debt instrument and is recognised
aspart of financing costs using the effective interest rate method. Certain debt instruments may be
designated as ‘fair-value-through-profit-or-loss’ where doing so results in more relevant information as it
eliminates or significantly reduces measurement or recognition inconsistencies. Such debt instruments are
reported at fair value, based on quoted prices in an active market, with movements in fair value reported
within financial income. Those debt instruments that are designated as fair-value-through-profit-or-loss are
disclosed in Note 27. The Group derecognises a financial liability when its contractual obligations are
discharged, cancelled or expired.
Taxation
Income taxes include all taxes based upon the taxable profits of the Group, including withholding taxes
payable on the distribution of retained earnings within the Group. Other taxes not based on income,
suchasproperty and capital taxes, are included within general and administration expenses.
Liabilities for income taxes, mainly withholding taxes, which could arise on the remittance of retained
earnings, principally relating to subsidiaries, are only recognised where it is probable that such earnings
willbe remitted in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognised on temporary differences between the tax bases of
assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the financial statements. Deferred income tax assets relating
to the carry-forward of unused tax losses are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable
profit will be available against which the unused tax losses can be utilised.
Current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when the income taxes are levied by the
sametaxation authority and when there is a legally enforceable right to offset them. Deferred income taxes
are determined based on the currently enacted tax rates applicable in each tax jurisdiction where the
Groupoperates.
Discontinued businesses and non-current assets held for sale
A discontinued business is a component of the Group’s business that represents a separate major line of
business or geographical area of operations or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
Reclassification as a discontinued business occurs upon disposal or when the operation meets the criteria
tobe classified as held for sale, if earlier.
A disposal group is a group of assets that are to be disposed of as a group in a single transaction, together
with the liabilities directly associated with those assets that will be transferred in the transaction. The assets
and liabilities in a disposal group are reclassified as held for sale if their value will be recovered principally
through a sale rather than through continuing use. The disposal group must be available for sale in its current
condition and the sale must be highly probable.
Immediately before classification as held for sale, the measurement of all assets and liabilities in a disposal
group is updated in accordance with applicable accounting policies. Then, on initial classification as
heldforsale, disposal groups are recognised at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale are included in the income statement.
Own equity instruments
The Group’s holdings in its own equity instruments are recorded as a deduction from equity. The original
purchase cost, consideration received for subsequent resale of these equity instruments and other
movements are reported as changes in equity. These instruments have been acquired primarily to meet the
potential obligations to employees that may arise in respect of certain of the Group’s equity compensation
plans.43
Management judgements made in applying accounting policies
The application of the Group’s accounting policies may require management to make judgements, apart from
those involving estimates, that can have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated finan-
cial statements. Management judgement is particularly required when assessing the substance of transactions
that have a complicated structure or legal form. These include, but are not limited to, the following areas:
Revenue recognition | The nature of the Group’s business is such that many sales transactions do not have
a simple structure. Sales agreements may consist of multiple components occurring at different times. The
Group is also party to various out-licensing agreements, which can involve upfront and milestone payments
that may occur over several years. These agreements may also involve certain future obligations. Revenue is
only recognised when, in management’s judgement, the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been
transferred and when the Group does not retain continuing managerial involvement or effective control over
the goods sold or when the obligation has been fulfilled. For some transactions this can result in cash receipts
being initially recognised as deferred income and then released to income over subsequent periods on the
basis of the performance of the conditions specified in the agreement.
Consolidation of subsidiaries and associates | The Group periodically undertakes transactions that may
involve obtaining the right to control or significantly influence the operations of other companies. These trans-
actions include the acquisition of all or part of the equity of other companies, the purchase of certain assets
and assumption of certain liabilities and contingent liabilities of other companies, and entering into alliance
agreements with other companies. Also included are transactions involving Special Purpose Entities and
similar vehicles. In all such cases management makes an assessment as to whether the Group has the right
tocontrol or significantly influence the other company’s operations, and based on this assessment the other
company is consolidated as a subsidiary or associated company. In making this assessment management
considers the underlying economic substance of the transaction and not only the contractual terms.
Business combinations | Where the Group acquires control of another business, the cost of the acquisition
hasto be allocated to the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired business, with any
residual recorded as goodwill. This process involves management making an assessment of the fair value of
these items. Management judgement is particularly involved in the recognition and measurement of the
following items:
• Intellectual property. This may include patents, licences, trademarks and similar rights for currently
marketed products, and also the rights and scientific knowledge associated with projects that are currently
inresearch or development phases.
• Contingencies such as legal and environmental matters.
• Contingent consideration arrangements.
• The recoverability of any accumulated tax losses previously incurred by the acquired company.
In all cases management makes an assessment based on the underlying economic substance of the items
concerned, and not only on the contractual terms, in order to fairly present these items.
Leases | The Group is party to leasing arrangements, both as a lessee and as a lessor. The treatment of
leasing transactions in the financial statements is mainly determined by whether the lease is considered to
bean operating lease or a finance lease. In making this assessment, management looks at the substance
ofthe lease, as well as the legal form, and makes a judgement about whether substantially all of the risks and
rewards of ownership are transferred. Arrangements which do not take the legal form of a lease but that
nevertheless convey the right to use an asset are also covered by such assessments.
Key assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management
tomake estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, income, expenses and related disclosures. The estimates and underlying assumptions are based
onhistorical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances,
the results of which form the basis for making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities
that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
www.global-reports.com44
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Changes in accounting
estimates may be necessary if there are changes in the circumstances on which the estimate was based,
orasa result of new information or more experience. Such changes are recognised in the period in
whichtheestimate is revised.
The key assumptions about the future and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk
ofcausing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities within the next twelve months
are described below.
Sales allowances | The Group has provisions and accruals for expected sales returns, charge-backs
andother rebates, including Medicaid in the United States and similar rebates in other countries, which
at31December 2008 total 913 million Swiss francs. Such estimates are based on analyses of existing
contractual or legislatively-mandated obligations, historical trends and the Group’s experience. Management
believes that the total provisions and accruals for these items are adequate, based upon currently available
information. As these deductions are based on management estimates, they may be subject to change as
better information becomes available. Such changes that arise could impact the provisions and accruals
recognised in the balance sheet in future periods and consequently the level of sales recognised in the
income statement in future periods.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, including goodwill | The Group has property,
plantand equipment with a carrying value of 18,190 million Swiss francs as disclosed in Note 12. Goodwill
hasa carrying value of 8,353 million Swiss francs (see Note 13) and intangible assets have a carrying value
of7,121 million Swiss francs (see Note 14). All of these assets are reviewed annually for impairment as
described above. To assess whether any impairment exists, estimates are made of the future cash flows
expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposal. Actual outcomes could vary
significantly from such estimates of discounted future cash flows. Factors such as changes in the planned
useof buildings, machinery or equipment, or closure of facilities, the presence or absence of competition,
technical obsolescence or lower than anticipated sales of products with capitalised rights could result
inshortened useful lives or impairment. Changes in the discount rates used could also lead to impairments.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits | Many of the Group’s employees participate in post-
employment defined benefit plans. The calculations of the recognised assets and liabilities from such plans
are based upon statistical and actuarial calculations. In particular the present value of the defined benefit
obligation is impacted by assumptions on discount rates used to arrive at the present value of future pension
liabilities, and assumptions on future increases in salaries and benefits. Furthermore, the Group’s independent
actuaries use statistically based assumptions covering areas such as future withdrawals of participants from
the plan and estimates of life expectancy. At 31 December 2008 the present value of the Group’s defined
benefit obligation is 10,504 million Swiss francs for funded plans and 3,078 million Swiss francs for unfunded
plans (see Note 10). The actuarial assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to changes
in market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates, longer or shorter life spans of
participants, and other changes in the factors being assessed. These differences could impact the assets
orliabilities recognised in the balance sheet in future periods.
Legal provisions | Group companies are party to various legal proceedings, including claims arising from
trade, and the most significant matters are described in Note 25. Legal provisions at 31 December 2008 total
223 million Swiss francs. Additional claims could be made which might not be covered by existing provisions
or by insurance. There can be no assurance that there will not be an increase in the scope of these matters or
that any future lawsuits, claims, proceedings or investigations will not be material. Such changes that arise
could impact the provisions recognised in the balance sheet in future periods.
Environmental provisions | The Group has provisions for environmental remediation costs, which at
31December 2008 total 161 million Swiss francs, as disclosed in Note 25. The material components of the
environmental provisions consist of costs to fully clean and refurbish contaminated sites and to treat and
contain contamination at certain other sites. Future remediation expenses are affected by a number of
uncertainties that include, but are not limited to, the detection of previously unknown contaminated sites,45
themethod and extent of remediation, the percentage of waste material attributable to the Group at the
remediation sites relative to that attributable to other parties, and the financial capabilities of the other
potentially responsible parties. Management believes that the total provisions for environmental matters are
adequate based upon currently available information. However, given the inherent difficulties in estimating
liabilities in this area, it cannot be guaranteed that additional costs will not be incurred beyond the amounts
accrued. The effect of the resolution of environmental matters on the results of operations cannot be
predicted due to uncertainty concerning both the amount and the timing of future expenditures. Such
changes that arise could impact the provisions recognised in the balance sheet in future periods.
Income taxes | At 31 December 2008, the net liability for current income taxes is 1,925 million Swiss francs
and the net asset for deferred income taxes is 420 million Swiss francs, as disclosed in Note 6. Significant
estimates are required to determine the current and deferred assets and liabilities for income taxes. Some
ofthese estimates are based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations. Management believes that
theestimates are reasonable and that the recognised liabilities for income tax-related uncertainties are
adequate. Various internal and external factors may have favourable or unfavourable effects on the income tax
assets and liabilities. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in tax laws, regulations and/or
rates, changing interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations, future levels of research and development
spending and changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings. Such changes that arise could impact the assets
and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet in future periods.
Changes in accounting policies
In 2007 the Group early adopted IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ and IAS 23 (revised) ‘Borrowing Costs’ which
are required to be implemented from 1 January 2009 at the latest. In 2008 the Group early adopted the
revised versions of IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ and IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial State-
ments’ that were published in early 2008 and which are required to be implemented from 1 January 2010
atthe latest. The Group has implemented the amendments to IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition
andMeasurement’ and IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: ‘Disclosures’ published in October 2008 relating
to the reclassification of Financial Assets. The Group has also adopted IFRIC interpretation 14 which relates
toIAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’.
The Group is currently assessing the potential impacts of the other new and revised standards and interpre-
tations that will be effective from 1 January 2009 and beyond, and which the Group has not early adopted.
These include further revisions to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ and revisions to IFRS 2 ‘Share
based Payment’. The Group does not anticipate that these will have a material impact on the Group’s overall
results and financial position.
IFRS 3 (revised) ‘Business combinations’ | Amongst other matters, the revised standard requires that
directly attributable transaction costs are expensed in the current period, rather than being included inthe
cost of acquisition as previously. The revised standard also requires that contingent consideration arrange-
ments should be included in acquisition accounting at fair value and expands the disclosure requirements for
business combinations. The Group has applied the revised standard prospectively for all business
combinations since 1 January 2008 and directly attributable transaction costs totalling 47 million Swiss francs
have been expensed in 2008 that would have been included in the cost of acquisition under the previous
accounting policy. Business combinations in 2007 and prior periods have not been restated. Had the new
accounting policy been applied in 2007, the Group would have expensed an additional 15 million Swiss francs
of directly attributable transaction costs in that year and goodwill would have been reduced by this amount.
This change has a negative impact of 0.06 Swiss francs on earnings per share and non-voting equity security
(basic and diluted) in 2008, and would have had a negative impact of 0.02 Swiss francs in 2007 if the revised
standard had been applied retrospectively.
IAS 27 (revised) ‘Consolidated and separate financial statements’ | Amongst other matters, the revised
standard requires that changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions
if they occur after control has already been obtained and if they do not result in a loss of control. Additionally
the revised standard renames ‘minority interests’ as ‘non-controlling interests’. The Group has applied the
revised standard retrospectively. There were no transactions in 2007 that required restatement.
www.global-reports.com46
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ and IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments:
Disclosures’ | These amendments relate to the reclassification of financial assets and have been applied
prospectively by the Group from 1 July 2008. The application of these amendments had no significant
impactonthe Group’s results.
IFRIC interpretation 14 to IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’ | The interpretation adds to the existing require-
ments of IAS 19 regarding the interaction between the limits on recognition of assets from defined benefit
post-employment plans and any minimum funding requirement of such plans. Some of the Group’s plans
dohave a minimum funding requirement and the application of this interpretation results in an increase in
theassets recorded on the Group’s balance sheet and a corresponding increase in the Group’s equity.
TheGroup has applied the revised standard retrospectively which results in an impact of 297 million Swiss
francs on equity as at 1 January 2007. The impacts on the previously published 31 December 2007 balance
sheet and the statement of recognised income and expense for the year then ended are shown in the tables
below. The application of the interpretation has no impact on net income and earnings per share.
Restated balance sheet (selected items) at 31 December 2007 | in millions of CHF
As originally Application of Group
published IFRIC 14 restated
Post-employment benefit assets 1,150 182 1,332
Deferred tax liabilities (1,481) (46) (1,527)
136
Capital and reserves attributable to Roche shareholders 45,347 136 45,483
Restated statement of recognised income and expense for the year
ended 31 December 2007 | in millions of CHF
As originally Application of Group
published IFRIC 14 Restated
Available-for-sale investments
— Valuation gains (losses) taken to equity (198) – (198)
— Transferred to income statement on sale or impairment (128) – (128)
Cash flow hedges
— Gains (losses) taken to equity (45) – (45)
— Transferred to income statement (3) – (3)
— Transferred to the initial balance sheet carrying value of
hedged items – – –
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (1,906) – (1,906)
Defined benefit post-employment plans
— Actuarial gains (losses) 1,178 – 1,178
— Limit on asset recognition (422) (214) (636)
Income taxes on items taken directly to or transferred from equity (267) 53 (214)
Net income recognised directly in equity (1,791) (161) (1,952)
Net income recognised in income statement 11,437 – 11,437
Total recognised income and expense 9,646 (161) 9,485
Attributable to
— Roche shareholders 8,502 (161) 8,341
— Non-controlling interests 1,144 – 1,144
Total 9,646 (161) 9,48547
2. Operating segment information
Divisional information | in millions of CHF
Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics
Division Division Corporate Group
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
Revenues from external
customers
Sales 35,961 36,783 9,656 9,350 – – 45,617 46,133
Royalties and other operating
income 2,148 2,057 139 186 – – 2,287 2,243
Total 38,109 38,840 9,795 9,536 – – 47,904 48,376
Revenues from
other operating segments
Sales 8 8 9 5 – – 17 13
Royalties and other
operating income – – – – – – – –
Elimination of
inter-divisional revenue (17) (13)
Total 8 8 9 5 – – – –
Segment results
Operating profit before
exceptional items 12,974 13,042 1,187 1,648 (265) (222) 13,896 14,468
Major legal cases 271 – – – – – 271 –
Changes in Group organisation (243) – – – – – (243) –
Operating profit 13,002 13,042 1,187 1,648 (265) (222) 13,924 14,468
Capital expenditure
Business combinations 631 1,165 3,266 1,186 – – 3,897 2,351
Additions to property, plant
and equipment 1,940 2,588 1,245 1,058 2 2 3,187 3,648
Additions to intangible assets 410 791 8 258 – – 418 1,049
Total capital expenditure 2,981 4,544 4,519 2,502 2 2 7,502 7,048
Research and development
Research and development costs 7,904 7,598 941 787 – – 8,845 8,385
Other segment information
Depreciation of property, plant
and equipment 1,022 957 649 599 5 4 1,676 1,560
Amortisation of intangible assets 511 645 458 331 – – 969 976
Impairment of property, plant
and equipment 20 4 8 2 – – 28 6
Impairment of goodwill – – – – – – – –
Impairment of intangible assets 99 58 5 – – – 104 58
Equity compensation plan expenses 469 568 31 26 13 14 513 608
www.global-reports.com48
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Pharmaceutical sub-divisional information | in millions of CHF
Roche Pharmaceuticals
Pharmaceuticals Genentech Chugai Division
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
Revenues from external
customers
Sales 22,164 22,970 10,461 10,414 3,336 3,399 35,961 36,783
Royalties and other
operating income 898 900 1,196 1,078 54 79 2,148 2,057
Total 23,062 23,870 11,657 11,492 3,390 3,478 38,109 38,840
Revenues from other
operating segments
Sales 747 562 940 922 51 – 1,738 1,484
Royalties and other
operating income 42 10 1,753 1,510 68 57 1,863 1,577
Elimination of revenue
within division (3,593) (3,053)
Total 789 572 2,693 2,432 119 57 8 8
Segment results
Operating profit before
exceptional items 6,795 7,225 5,821 5,298 591 610 13,207 13,133
Elimination of profit within division (233) (91)
Sub-total 6,795 7,225 5,821 5,298 591 610 12,974 13,042
Major legal cases – – 271 – – – 271 –
Changes in Group organisation (149) – (94) – – – (243) –
Operating profit 6,646 7,225 5,998 5,298 591 610 13,002 13,042
Capital expenditure
Business combinations 631 94 – 1,071 – – 631 1,165
Additions to property, plant
and equipment 811 1,045 851 1,327 278 216 1,940 2,588
Additions to intangible assets 169 501 241 282 8 410 791
Total capital expenditure 1,611 1,640 1,092 2,680 278 224 2,981 4,544
Research and development
Research and development costs 4,673 4,415 2,723 2,678 634 621 8,030 7,714
Elimination of costs within division (126) (116)
Total 4,673 4,415 2,723 2,678 634 621 7,904 7,598
Other segment information
Depreciation of property, plant
and equipment 594 530 336 337 92 90 1,022 957
Amortisation of intangible assets 252 398 190 179 69 68 511 645
Impairment of property, plant
and equipment 11 2 – – 9 2 20 4
Impairment of goodwill – – – – – – – –
Impairment of intangible assets 99 16 – 42 – – 99 58
Equity compensation plan expenses 98 100 369 465 2 3 469 56849
Net operating assets | in millions of CHF
Assets Liabilities Net assets
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
Roche Pharmaceuticals 16,112 16,384 (3,615) (3,288) 12,497 13,096
Genentech 12,404 12,993 (2,731) (4,049) 9,673 8,944
Chugai 4,715 3,663 (867) (561) 3,848 3,102
Elimination within division (748) (450) – – (748) (450)
Pharmaceuticals Division 32,483 32,590 (7,213) (7,898) 25,270 24,692
Diagnostics Division 18,750 16,323 (2,141) (2,263) 16,609 14,060
Corporate 156 232 (248) (271) (92) (39)
Total operating 51,389 49,145 (9,602) (10,432) 41,787 38,713
Non-operating 24,700 29,220 (12,665) (14,490) 12,035 14,730
Group 76,089 78,365 (22,267) (24,922) 53,822 53,443
Information by geographical area | in millions of CHF
Revenues from external customers Non-current assets
Royalties and
other operating Property, plant Goodwill and
Sales income and equipment intangible assets
2008
Switzerland 509 493 2,625 2,366
European Union 15,601 272 4,732 2,381
— of which Germany 3,200 252 3,321 2,334
Rest of Europe 1,521 16 43 3
Europe 17,631 781 7,400 4,750
United States 16,362 1,449 8,095 10,032
Rest of North America 932 1 117 90
North America 17,294 1,450 8,212 10,122
Latin America 2,975 2 397 22
Japan 3,532 54 1,807 579
Rest of Asia 2,920 – 287 –
Asia 6,452 54 2,094 579
Africa, Australia and Oceania 1,265 – 87 1
Total 45,617 2,287 18,190 15,474
www.global-reports.com50
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Revenues from external customers Non-current assets
Royalties and
other operating Property, plant Goodwill and
Sales income and equipment intangible assets
2007
Switzerland 489 430 2,404 2,354
European Union 15,465 127 5,096 2,755
— of which Germany 3,277 117 3,437 2,699
Rest of Europe 1,620 – 53 4
Europe 17,574 557 7,553 5,113
United States 17,069 1,598 7,949 7,446
Rest of North America 1,004 3 126 19
North America 18,073 1,601 8,075 7,465
Latin America 2,784 – 454 42
Japan 3,562 85 1,382 559
Rest of Asia 2,681 – 254 –
Asia 6,243 85 1,636 559
Africa, Australia and Oceania 1,459 – 114 2
Total 46,133 2,243 17,832 13,181
Sales are allocated to geographical areas by destination according to the location of the customer. Royalties
and other operating income are allocated according to the location of the Group company that receives the
revenue. European Union information is based on members of the EU as at 31 December 2008.
Major customers
The US national wholesale distributor, AmerisourceBergen Corp., represented approximately 6 billion
Swissfrancs (2007: 6 billion Swiss francs) of the Group’s revenues. Over 85% of these revenues were in the
Genentech operating segment, with the residual in the Roche Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics segments.
TheGroup also reported substantial revenues from the US national wholesale distributors, Cardinal Health
Inc. and McKesson Corp., and in total these three customers represented approximately a quarter of the
Group’s revenues, the majority of this being at Genentech.
3. Genentech
Effective 7 September 1990 the Roche Group acquired a majority interest of approximately 60% of Genentech,
Inc., a biotechnology company in the United States. On 13 June 1999 the Group exercised its option to
acquire the remaining shares of Genentech on 30 June 1999, at which point Genentech became a 100%
owned subsidiary of the Group. On 23 July 1999, 26 October 1999 and 29 March 2000 the Group completed
public offerings of Genentech’s common stock, which reduced the Group’s majority interest to 60%. During
2004 the Group’s ownership of Genentech decreased by 2.45% due to the conversion and redemption
ofthe‘LYONs IV’ US dollar exchangeable notes. At 31 December 2008 the Group’s interest in Genentech
was 55.8% (2007: 55.8%).
The common stock of Genentech is publicly traded and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, under the
symbol ‘DNA’. Genentech prepares financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States (US GAAP). These are filed on a quarterly basis with the US Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC).51
Roche’s proposal to fully purchase Genentech
On 21 July 2008 the Group announced a proposal to purchase all of the outstanding shares of Genentech
common stock not owned by Roche at a price of USD 89.00 in cash per share, equivalent to a total cash
payment of approximately 43.7 billion US dollars (the ‘Roche Proposal’). On 24 July 2008 Genentech
announced that a special committee of its Board of Directors composed of its independent directors
(the‘Special Committee’) had been formed to review, evaluate, and, in the Special Committee’s discretion,
negotiate and recommend or not recommend the acceptance of the Roche Proposal. On 13 August 2008
Genentech announced that the Special Committee did not support the proposal.
The impacts of the Roche Proposal on the 2008 results are described in Note 8.
Roche’s relationship with Genentech
Genentech has entered into certain agreements with Roche, which are discussed below:
Affiliation Arrangements | As a result of the June 1999 redemption of Genentech’s Special Common Stock
and subsequent public offerings, Genentech amended their certificate of incorporation and bylaws and
entered into or amended certain affiliation arrangements with Roche. Amongst other matters these cover
thefollowing areas:
• Roche’s rights as a shareholder.
• Roche’s rights to nominate members of Genentech’s Board of Directors.
• Certain limitations on Roche’s ability to buy or sell Genentech’s common stock.
• The process under which Roche may effect a merger of Genentech with Roche.
• The approval of the directors designated by Roche should Genentech seek to make significant business
acquisitions or divestments.
• The approval of the directors designated by Roche should Genentech seek to issue, repurchase or redeem
its capital stock.
Genentech issues additional shares of common stock in connection with its equity compensation plans,
andmay issue additional shares for other purposes, which affects Roche’s percentage ownership interest.
Theaffiliation agreement between Roche and Genentech provides, amongst other matters, that Genentech
establishes a stock repurchase programme to maintain Roche’s percentage ownership interest in Genentech.
Licensing Agreements | In July 1999 Roche and Genentech agreed an amended and restated licensing
andmarketing agreement granting Roche an option to license, use and sell Genentech’s products in
non-USmarkets. This licensing and marketing agreement was subsequently amended to delete or add
certainGenentech products under Roche’s commercialisation and marketing rights for Canada. In addition,
Rocheand Genentech have a July 1998 licensing and marketing agreement relating to anti-HER2 antibodies
(Herceptin and pertuzumab), providing Roche with exclusive marketing rights outside of the US.
Depending on the specific circumstances and the terms of the agreement, this may result in payments on
anarm’s-length basis from Roche to Genentech, for any or all of the following matters:
• Fees to extend Roche’s option to license a product.
• Partial reimbursement of Genentech’s previously incurred development costs where Roche exercises an
option to license a product.
• Milestones and similar payments, dependent upon the achievement of agreed objectives or performance
targets.
• Royalties on Roche’s aggregate sales of that product.
Manufacturing Agreements | Genentech has agreed, in general, to manufacture for and supply to Roche
itsclinical requirements at cost and its commercial requirements on a cost plus basis. Roche has the right
tomanufacture Genentech’s products under certain circumstances. In July 2006, Roche and Genentech
signed two new product supply agreements. The Umbrella Manufacturing Supply Agreement (or ‘Umbrella
Agreement’) supersedes any existing product supply agreements. Under this agreement, Roche has agreed
topurchase specified amounts of Herceptin and Avastin through 2012 and, on a perpetual basis, either
partymay order other collaboration products from the other, including Herceptin and Avastin after 2012.
www.global-reports.com52
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
TheShort-Term Supply Agreement (or ‘Short-Term Agreement’) supplements the terms of the Umbrella
Agreement. Under this agreement, Roche has agreed to purchase specified amounts of Herceptin, Avastin
and MabThera/Rituxan through 2008.
Research Collaboration Agreement | In April 2004, Roche and Genentech entered into a research collabo-
ration agreement that outlines the process by which the parties may agree to conduct and share in the costs
of jointresearch on certain molecules. The agreement further outlines how development and commercial-
isation efforts will be coordinated with respect to select molecules, including the financial provisions for
anumber ofdifferent development and commercialisation scenarios undertaken by either or both parties.
Tax Sharing Agreement | Roche and Genentech have a tax sharing agreement that relates to the US state
andlocal tax returns in which they are consolidated or combined. Genentech calculates its tax liability
orrefund with the Group for these state and local jurisdictions as if Genentech were a stand-alone entity.
Differences between IFRS and US GAAP
Due to certain consolidation entries and differences in the requirements of International Financial Reporting Stan-
dards (IFRS) and US GAAP, there are differences between Genentech’s stand-alone financial results on aUS
GAAP basis and the financial results of Genentech as consolidated by the Roche Group in accordance with IFRS.
Reconciliation of Genentech results
2008 2007
USD CHF USD CHF
millions millions millions millions
Operating income (US GAAP basis) 5,329 4,229
— Redemption and Tanox costs 172 126
— Equity compensation plan expenses (US GAAP basis) 399 403
— Tanox acquisition accounting (US GAAP basis) – (44)
— Special litigation items and Roche proposal costs (246) 54
Operating income (non-US GAAP basis) 5,654 4,768
Add (deduct) differences and consolidation entries
— Add back redemption and Tanox costs (172) (126)
— Equity compensation plan expenses (IFRS basis) (341) (387)
— Capitalised in-process research and development 179 204
— Changes in Group organisation reclassification 87 –
— Other differences and consolidation entries (30) (45)
Operating profit before exceptional items (IFRS basis) 5,377 5,821 4,414 5,298
Add (deduct) exceptional items
— Major legal cases 250 271 – –
— Changes in Group organisation (87) (94) – –
Segment result/operating profit (IFRS basis) 5,540 5,998 4,414 5,298
Add (deduct) non-operating items (IFRS basis)
— Financial income, financing costs and consolidation entries 98 172
— Income taxes (2,331) (2,189)
Net income (IFRS basis) 3,765 3,281
Non-controlling interest calculation
Non-controlling interest percentage (average during year) 44.1% 44.2%
Income applicable to non-controlling interest (IFRS basis) 1,659 1,451
Translated at 1 USD = 1.08 CHF (2007: 1 USD = 1.20 CHF).53
Effective 1 January 2005 the Group implemented IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’ in its IFRS financial state-
ments. Amongst other matters, the standard required that the fair value of all equity compensation plans
awarded to employees be estimated at grant date and recorded as an expense over the vesting period. The
expense is charged against the appropriate income statement heading. The standard also required retro-
spective application, within certain transitional requirements. In 2008 a pre-tax expense of 341 million
USdollars or 369 million Swiss francs relating to plans at Genentech has been recorded (2007: 387 million
USdollars or 465 million Swiss francs). Effective 1 January 2006 Genentech implemented US Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R — ‘Share-Based Payment’ (FAS 123R) in its US GAAP financial
statements. Amongst other matters, this required that companies reporting under US GAAP recognise com-
pensation expenses for such plans. Due to the different dates of first application, measurement requirements
and transitional arrangements of FAS 123R and IFRS 2, the expenses recorded by Genentech in its
USGAAPfinancial statements for equity compensation plans are not the same as the expenses recorded
inthe Roche Group IFRS financial statements for these same plans.
In 2005 the Group implemented IAS 38 (revised) ‘Intangible Assets’ in its IFRS financial statements.
Amongstother matters, the revised standard typically results in more intangible assets being recognised
fromin-licensing arrangements and similar research and development alliances. In Genentech’s US GAAP
financial statements such expenditure would usually be recorded as research and development expenses.
There are other differences between IFRS and US GAAP, but these have a relatively minor impact.
Genentech share repurchases
On 15 April 2008 Genentech’s Board of Directors approved an extension of the existing stock repurchase
programme authorising Genentech to repurchase up to 150 million shares of Genentech’s common stock
foratotal of 10 billion US dollars through 30 June 2009. Since the programme’s inception, Genentech has
repurchased approximately 89 million shares for a total of approximately 6.5 billion US dollars.
During 2008 the net cash outflow from repurchases of Genentech common stock was 780 million US dollars
or 844 million Swiss francs (2007: 1,344 million US dollars or 1,613 million Swiss francs, which includes
300million US dollars from the prepaid share repurchase program).
Manufacturing agreements with Lonza
Effective 8 December 2006 Genentech sold its wholly-owned subsidiary Genentech España, including
themanufacturing facility in Porriño, Spain, to Lonza Group Ltd. (‘Lonza’) for 150 million US dollars. As part
ofthis agreement Genentech has entered into a short-term supply contract with Lonza for the production
ofAvastin using a portion of the production capacity of the Porriño facility. At the same time Genentech has
entered into a supply agreement for the manufacture of certain Genentech products at Lonza’s facility under
construction in Singapore which is currently expected to receive US Food and Drug Administration (‘FDA’)
licensure in 2010. Genentech is committed to fund the pre-commissioning production qualification costs
atthis facility and, upon FDA licensure, Genentech is committed to purchase 100% of products successfully
manufactured at the facility for a period of three years after commissioning of the facility. The estimated
totalcost of these pre- and post-commissioning commitments is approximately 440million US dollars.
Genentech has also received an exclusive option to purchase the Lonza Singapore facility during the period
from 2007 up to one year after FDA licensure for a purchase price of 290 million USdollars. Regardless
ofwhether the purchase option is exercised, Genentech will be obliged to make amilestone payment
of70million US dollars if certain performance milestones are met at the facility being constructed.
Foraccounting purposes, due to the nature of the supply agreement and Genentech’s involvement in the
construction of the buildings, Genentech is considered to be the owner of the assets during theconstruction
period even though the funds to construct the building shell and some infrastructure costs are paid by
Lonza.
www.global-reports.com54
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Genentech has also entered into a loan agreement with Lonza to advance up to 299 million US dollars to
Lonza for the construction of the Singapore facility. As at 31 December 2008 a total of 225 million US dollars
has been advanced (2007: 25 million US dollars). If Genentech exercises its option to purchase the facility
then any outstanding advances may be offset against the purchase price. If Genentech does not exercise its
purchase option then the advances may be offset against supply purchases.
As at 31 December 2008, construction in progress totalling 284 million Swiss francs (2007: 182 million Swiss
francs) has been capitalised and a net financing obligation totalling 46 million Swiss francs (2007: 155 million
Swiss francs) has been recorded.
Leasing arrangements
In December 2004 Genentech entered into a Master Lease Agreement with Slough SSF LLC, which was
subsequently acquired by Health Care Properties (‘HCP’) for the development of property adjacent to
Genentech’s South San Francisco site. The development includes a total of eight buildings, which are subject
to separate agreements as contemplated by the Master Lease Agreement. HCP as the developer will
construct the building shell for each building and Genentech will finish the interior of each building as labora-
tory or office space, as applicable. The construction of the first buildings was completed in 2006, at which
point the lease term for those buildings was deemed to begin. Construction of the final buildings was com-
pleted during 2008. The lease term expires twelve years from the occupation of the final building. Genentech
has two five-year renewal options for each building and has an option to purchase the various buildings at
different dates between 2016 and 2020. Genentech also has a right of first refusal with respect to each
building ortheentire development should HCP consider selling part or all of the development.
As at 31 December 2008, based on the status of the development to date, the total carrying value of property,
plant and equipment from this agreement was 239 million Swiss francs (2007: 261 million Swiss francs) and
the carrying value of the leasing obligation was 291 million Swiss francs (2007: 305 million Swiss francs).
Estimates of the total future minimum lease payments anticipated by the entire Master Lease Agreement are
shown below.
Estimated total future minimum lease payments under HCP leases | in millions of CHF
Total minimum
Principal Ground lease Interest lease payment
Within one year 12 7 19 38
Between one and five years 67 32 67 166
More than five years 208 55 53 316
Total 287 94 139 520
Other matters
Details of other Genentech matters are given in the following Notes:
• Acquisition of Tanox in 2007: Note 7.
• Changes in Group organisation: Note 8.
• Genentech’s equity compensation plans: Note 11.
• Genentech legal cases: Note 25.
• Genentech’s Senior Notes and Commercial Paper Program: Note 27.
4. Chugai
Effective 1 October 2002 the Roche Group and Chugai completed an alliance to create a leading research-
driven Japanese pharmaceutical company, which was formed by the merger of Chugai and Roche’s Japanese
pharmaceuticals subsidiary, Nippon Roche. The merged company, known as Chugai, is a fully consolidated
subsidiary of the Group. At 31 December 2008 the Group’s interest in Chugai was 61.5% (2007: 51.5%).55
The common stock of Chugai is publicly traded and is listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange under the stock
code ‘TSE:4519’. Chugai prepares financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in Japan (JGAAP). These are filed on a quarterly basis with the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
Roche’s relationship with Chugai
Chugai has entered into certain agreements with Roche, which are discussed below:
Basic Alliance Agreement | As part of the Basic Alliance Agreement signed in December 2001, Roche
andChugai entered into certain arrangements covering the future operation and governance of Chugai.
Amongst other matters these cover the following areas:
• The structuring of the alliance.
• Roche’s rights as a shareholder.
• Roche’s rights to nominate members of Chugai’s Board of Directors.
• Certain limitations to Roche’s ability to buy or sell Chugai’s common stock.
Chugai issues additional shares of common stock in connection with its convertible debt and equity
compensation plans, and may issue additional shares for other purposes, which affects Roche’s percentage
ownership interest. The Basic Alliance Agreement provides, amongst other matters, that Chugai will
guaranteeRoche’s right to maintain its shareholding percentage in Chugai at not less than 50.1%.
Licensing Agreements | Under the Japan Umbrella Rights Agreement signed in December 2001, Chugai
hasexclusive rights to market Roche’s pharmaceutical products in Japan. Chugai also has first right of
refusalon the development and marketing in Japan of all development compounds advanced by Roche.
Under the Rest of the World Umbrella Rights Agreement signed in May 2002, Roche has the right of first
refusal on the development and marketing of Chugai’s development compounds in markets outside Japan,
excluding South Korea, if Chugai decides that it requires a partner for such activities.
Further to these agreements, Roche and Chugai have signed a series of separate agreements for certain
specific products. Depending on the specific circumstances and the terms of the agreement, this may result
inpayments on an arm’s-length basis between Roche and Chugai, for any or all of the following matters:
• Upfront payments, if a right of first refusal to license a product is exercised.
• Milestone payments, dependent upon the achievement of agreed performance targets.
• Royalties on future product sales.
These specific product agreements may also cover the manufacture and supply of the respective products
tomeet the other party’s clinical and/or commercial requirements on an arm’s-length basis.
Research Collaboration Agreements | Roche and Chugai have entered into research collaboration
agreements in the areas of small molecule synthetic drug research and biotechnology based drug discovery.
Differences between IFRS and JGAAP
Due to certain consolidation entries and differences in the requirements of International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) and JGAAP, there are differences between Chugai’s stand-alone financial results
onaJGAAP basis and the financial results of Chugai as consolidated by the Roche Group in accordance
withIFRS.
The acquisition by Roche of a 50.1% interest in Chugai was treated as a business combination for IFRS.
ForJGAAP the alliance was treated as a merger between Chugai and Nippon Roche. Therefore the JGAAP
results of Chugai do not include the goodwill and fair value adjustments that are recorded in Roche’s results,
and which are quantified in the table below. Moreover the acquisition accounting only includes Roche’s
50.1% of these fair value adjustments, based on applicable IFRS at that time, and therefore the impact of
these on net income needs to be added back in the non-controlling interest calculations in Roche’s IFRS
results.
www.global-reports.com56
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
In Roche’s IFRS results, depreciation on property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line
method. In Chugai’s JGAAP results the reducing balance method is used. Additionally certain income
andexpenses, notably some restructuring costs, are required by JGAAP to be reported as extraordinary
items. InChugai’s JGAAP results extraordinary items are reported below the operating profit line. In
Roche’sIFRS results such items are normally included as part of operating profit and are not treated as
extraordinary orexceptional items. There are other differences between IFRS and JGAAP, but these
havearelatively minor impact.
Reconciliation of Chugai results
2008 2007
JPY CHF JPY CHF
billions millions billions millions
Operating profit (JGAAP basis) 51.6 66.7
— Depreciation basis difference 10.5 5.1
— Classification of extraordinary items 5.9 (1.3)
— Other differences and consolidation entries (4.8) (4.0)
Operating profit before acquisition accounting
impacts (IFRS basis) 63.2 661 66.5 678
— Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (0.7) (7) (0.7) (7)
— Amortisation of intangible assets arising
from business combinations (6.0) (63) (6.0) (61)
Operating profit (IFRS basis) 56.5 591 59.8 610
Add (deduct) Corporate and non-operating items
(IFRS basis)
— Financial income and financing costs 72 23
— Income taxes (241) (242)
Net income (IFRS basis) 422 391
Non-controlling interest calculation
Add back acquisition accounting impact on net income 42 41
Net income excluding acquisition accounting 464 432
Non-controlling interest percentage
(average during year) 43.1% 48.7%
Income applicable to non-controlling interest
(IFRS basis) 200 211
Translated at 100 JPY = 1.05 CHF (2007: 1.02 CHF).
Dividends
The dividends distributed to third parties holding Chugai shares during 2008 totalled 74 million Swiss francs
(2007: 91 million Swiss francs) and have been recorded against non-controlling interests (see Note 30).
Dividends paid by Chugai to Roche are eliminated on consolidation as inter-company items.
Tender offer for Chugai shares
On 22 May 2008, the Group announced a tender offer to acquire additional common shares of Chugai to
increase the Group’s ownership of Chugai’s issued shares from 50.1% to 59.9%. The tender offer was fully
subscribed at the offer price of 1,730 Japanese yen per share and on 24 June 2008 the Group acquired
54.9million common shares of Chugai for a cash consideration of 95.0 billion Japanese yen (912 million Swiss
francs). Taking into account the shares that had previously been repurchased by Chugai but not retired,
theGroup’s ownership in Chugai’s outstanding shares increased to 61.5%. The total cash outflow of 934 mil-
lion Swiss francs, including directly attributable costs of 22 million Swiss francs, has been recorded to equity
as a change in ownership interest in subsidiaries.57
Chugai share repurchases
There were no share repurchases in 2008. During 2007 Chugai repurchased 9.5 million of its common
sharesfor a total consideration of 27.6 billion Japanese yen (282 million Swiss francs). As a result the Group’s
ownership in Chugai increased to 51.5%.
Other matters
Details of Chugai’s equity compensation plans are given in Note 11. Details of the ‘Series 6 Chugai
Pharmaceutical Unsecured Convertible Bonds’ are given in Note 27.
5. Financial income and financing costs
Financial income | in millions of CHF
Year ended 31 December
2008 2007
Gains on sale of equity securities 231 350
(Losses) on sale of equity securities (1) (8)
Dividend income 5 8
Gains (losses) on equity security derivatives, net 13 (2)
Write-downs and impairments of equity securities (115) (35)
Net income from equity securities 133 313
Interest income 698 1,072
Gains on sale of debt securities 23 160
(Losses) on sale of debt securities (168) (185)
Gains (losses) on debt security derivatives, net (44) –
Net gains (losses) on financial assets at fair-value-through-profit-or-loss (64) 22
Write-downs and impairments of debt securities (53) (68)
Net interest income and income from debt securities 392 1,001
Expected return on plan assets of defined benefit plans10 688 670
Foreign exchange gains (losses), net (393) 110
Gains (losses) on foreign currency derivatives, net 328 (263)
Net foreign exchange gains (losses) (65) (153)
Net other financial income (expense) (25) (26)
Total financial income 1,123 1,805
Financing costs | in millions of CHF
Year ended 31 December
2008 2007
Interest expense (214) (281)
Amortisation of discount on debt instruments (1) (8)
Gains (losses) on debt derivatives, net (4) (2)
Net gains (losses) on financial liabilities at fair-value-through-profit-or-loss 5 1
Time cost of provisions25 (21) (69)
Interest cost of defined benefit plans10 (652) (612)
Total financing costs (887) (971)
www.global-reports.com58
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Net financial income | in millions of CHF
Year ended 31 December
2008 2007
Financial income 1,123 1,805
Financing costs (887) (971)
Net financial income 236 834
Financial result from Treasury management 200 776
Financial result from Pension management 36 58
Net financial income 236 834
Net gains (losses) on financial liabilities at fair-value-through-profit-or-loss includes the change in the fair
value that is attributable to changes in the liabilities’ credit risk component. This is calculated by comparing
the difference between the present value of the future cash flows on the bonds, discounted by using a swap
yield curve based on LIBOR, and the market prices of the bonds. Due to a widening of the credit spread
during 2008 relative to the swap yield curve, the change in fair value that is attributable to changes in the
liabilities’ credit risk component was a gain of 6 million Swiss francs (2007: gain of 4 million Swiss francs).
The cumulative change in fair value that is attributable to the change in credit risk since the issuance of the
instruments was a gain of 27 million Swiss francs (2007: gain of 21 million Swiss francs). Interest expense
onliabilities at fair-value-through-profit-or-loss was 76 million Swiss francs (2007: 106 million Swiss francs).
Interest income includes interest on financial assets held at fair-value-through-profit-and-loss amount of
44million Swiss francs (2007: 46 million Swiss francs).
6. Income taxes
Income tax expenses | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Current income taxes (3,617) (4,976)
Adjustments recognised for current tax of prior periods 35 83
Deferred income taxes 265 1,026
Total income (expense) (3,317) (3,867)
Since the Group operates internationally, it is subject to income taxes in many different tax jurisdictions.
TheGroup calculates its average expected tax rate as a weighted average of the tax rates in the tax juris-
dictions in which the Group operates. This rate changes from year to year due to changes in the mix of the
Group’s taxable income and changes in local tax rates. The average expected rate decreased in 2008
compared to 2007 due to lower taxable profits in certain high tax jurisdictions and certain one-time effects,
notably a favourable change in tax rates in Basel that was effective in 2008. The Group’s effective tax rate
canbe reconciled to the Group’s average expected tax rate as follows:
Reconciliation of the Group’s effective tax rate
2008 2007
Average expected tax rate 23.0% 23.7%
Tax effect of
— Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses –0.2% –0.0%
— Non-taxable income/non-deductible expenses +1.2% +0.2%
— Genentech equity compensation plans +0.5% +0.9%
— Other differences –1.1% +0.5%
Group’s effective tax rate before exceptional items 23.4% 25.3%59
2008 2007
Profit Income Profit Income
before tax taxes Tax rate before tax taxes Tax rate
(mCHF) (mCHF) (%) (mCHF) (mCHF) (%)
Roche (excluding Genentech
and Chugai) 7,551 (802) 10.6 9,201 (1,436) 15.6
Genentech 5,919 (2,262) 38.2 5,470 (2,189) 40.0
Chugai 663 (241) 36.3 633 (242) 38.2
Group’s effective tax rate
before exceptional items 14,133 (3,305) 23.4 15,304 (3,867) 25.3
Major legal cases25 271 (105) 38.7 – – –
Changes in Group organisation8 (243) 93 38.3 – – –
Group’s effective tax rate 14,161 (3,317) 23.4 15,304 (3,867) 25.3
Income tax assets (liabilities) | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Current income taxes
— Assets 268 263
— Liabilities (2,193) (2,215)
Net current income tax assets (liabilities) (1,925) (1,952)
Deferred income taxes
— Assets 1,829 1,317
— Liabilities (1,409) (1,527)
Net deferred income tax assets (liabilities) 420 (210)
As disclosed in Note 1, post-employment benefit assets, deferred tax liabilities and equity have been restated in the 31 December 2007
balance sheet following the adoption of IFRIC interpretation 14 in 2008. A reconciliation to the previously published balance sheet is
provided in Note 1.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry forwards only to the extent that realisation
oftherelated tax benefit is probable. The Group has unrecognised tax losses, including valuation allowances,
asfollows:
Unrecognised tax losses: expiry | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Applicable Applicable
Amount tax rate Amount tax rate
Within one year – – 42 35%
Between one and five years 68 22% 96 25%
More than five years 223 31% 176 32%
Total unrecognised tax losses 291 29% 314 30%
Deferred income tax liabilities have not been established for the withholding tax and other taxes that would
be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries, as such amounts are currently regarded
as permanently reinvested. These unremitted earnings totalled 41.7 billion Swiss francs at 31 December 2008
(2007: 38.8 billion Swiss francs).
The deferred income tax assets and liabilities and the deferred income tax charges (credits) are attributable
tothe following items:
www.global-reports.com60
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Deferred income taxes: movements in recognised net assets (liabilities) | in millions of CHF
Property, plant and Other
equipment, and temporary
intangible assets differences Total
Year ended 31 December 2007
Net deferred income tax asset (liability)
at 1 January 2007 — restated1 (2,717) 2,243 (474)
BioVeris acquisition7 (41) 41 –
Tanox acquisition7 (282) 41 (241)
Other business combinations7 (98) 54 (44)
(Charged) credited to the income statement 309 717 1,026
(Charged) credited to equity from other
recognised gains and losses28 – (214) (214)
(Charged) credited to equity from
equity compensation plans
and other transactions with shareholders – (209) (209)
Currency translation effects and other 90 (144) (54)
Net deferred income tax asset (liability)
at 31 December 2007 (2,739) 2,529 (210)
Year ended 31 December 2008
Net deferred income tax asset (liability)
at 1 January 2008 (2,739) 2,529 (210)
Ventana acquisition7 (545) 123 (422)
Other business combinations7 (121) 2 (119)
(Charged) credited to the income statement 157 108 265
(Charged) credited to equity from other recognised
gains and losses28 – 738 738
(Charged) credited to equity from
equity compensation plans
and other transactions with shareholders – 113 113
Currency translation effects and other 208 (153) 55
Net deferred income tax asset (liability)
at 31 December 2008 (3,040) 3,460 420
7. Business combinations
Acquisitions — 2008
Ventana | Ventana Medical Systems, Inc. (‘Ventana’), a publicly owned US company based in Tucson,
Arizona that had been listed on the NASDAQ under the symbol ‘VMSI’. Prior to 8 February 2008, the Group
owned shares in Ventana representing 0.4% of the outstanding shares of Ventana. Effective 8 February 2008
the Group acquired a further 70.5% of the outstanding shares of Ventana and obtained control of Ventana.
Ventana develops, manufactures and markets instrument/reagent systems that automate slide preparation
andstaining in clinical histology and drug discovery laboratories. Ventana’s clinical systems are used in the
diagnosis and treatment of cancer and infectious diseases and their drug discovery systems are used by
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to accelerate the discovery of new drug targets and to evaluate
the safety of new drug compounds. Ventana is now reported as part of the Diagnostics operating segment.
The acquisition of Ventana, a leader in the fast-growing histopathology (tissue-based diagnostics) business
segment, will allow the Group to broaden its diagnostic offerings and complement its world leadership in
bothin-vitro diagnostic systems and oncology therapies.61
The purchase consideration was 2,532 million Swiss francs in cash. This has been allocated as follows:
Ventana acquisition: net assets acquired | in millions of CHF
Carrying value Fair value Carrying value
prior to acquisition adjustments upon acquisition
Property, plant and equipment 87 8 95
Goodwill 16 (16) –
Intangible assets
— Product intangibles: in use 17 802 819
— Product intangibles: not available for use – 570 570
Inventories 26 34 60
Deferred income taxes 120 (542) (422)
Cash 45 – 45
Other net assets (liabilities) (47) (17) (64)
Net identifiable assets 264 839 1,103
Non-controlling interests (321)
Goodwill 1,750
Purchase consideration 2,532
Goodwill represents the strategic value to the Group of entering the tissue diagnostics business area.
Italsorepresents the premium paid over the traded market price to obtain control of the business. None of
the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. The non-controlling interests
in Ventana were measured at their proportionate share (29.1%) of Ventana’s identifiable net assets.
The fair value of other net assets (liabilities) includes receivables with a fair value of 117 million Swiss francs.
Included within this fair value is an allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable of 2 million Swiss francs.
Finance lease receivables totalling 9 million Swiss francs are also included in this total and the gross amount
due under these contracts is 9 million Swiss francs.
The Group recognised a gain of 5 million Swiss francs as a result of measuring at fair value its 0.4% equity
interest in Ventana held prior to the acquisition date. This gain is included in financial income for 2008.
Directly attributable acquisition-related costs of 41 million Swiss francs were incurred in the transaction.
These are reported within general and administration expenses in the current period as part of the operating
result of the Diagnostics operating segment.
Subsequent to the effective date of the acquisition on 8 February 2008, the Group purchased the remaining
shares in Ventana held by third parties to give the Group a 100% interest in Ventana. The cash consideration
was 1,285 million Swiss francs, which has been recorded to equity as a change in ownership interest in
subsidiaries.
Other acquisitions | Effective 23 May 2008 the Group acquired a 100% controlling interest in Piramed Ltd.
(‘Piramed’), a privately owned biotechnology company based in the UK. Piramed discovers and develops
newmedicines primarily for the treatment of cancer and immune inflammatory disorders such as arthritis and
asthma. Piramed is a leading company in the discovery of highly selective drugs that inhibit different isoforms
of PI3-K enzymes that are increasingly recognised as key players in a wide variety of disease processes.
Piramed is reported as part of the Roche Pharmaceuticals operating segment. The acquisition will further
strengthen the Group’s research and development pipeline in oncology and inflammatory disease. The
purchase consideration was 183 million Swiss francs. This consisted of 176 million Swiss francs paid in cash
and 7 million Swiss francs from a contingent consideration arrangement. The contingent consideration
arrangement consists of a potential milestone payment of 15 million US dollars which is due upon the
commencement of phase II clinical trials for Piramed’s oncology programme. A liability of 7 million US dollars
(7 million Swiss francs) was recognised at the acquisition date, based on management’s best estimate of
theprobability-adjusted expected cash outflow from the arrangement. As at 31 December 2008 the amount
recognised for this arrangement was unchanged, based on the most recent management estimates.
www.global-reports.com62
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Effective 24 September 2008 the Group acquired a 100% controlling interest in ARIUS Research Inc.
(‘ARIUS’), a publicly owned Canadian biotechnology company that had been listed on the TSX under the
symbol ‘ARI’. ARIUS discovers and develops antibody therapeutics to treat cancer and other diseases,
including a proprietary antibody platform, which rapidly identifies and selects antibodies based on their
functional ability to affect disease before progressing into clinical development. ARIUS is reported as part
ofthe Roche Pharmaceuticals operating segment. The acquisition will further strengthen the Group’s develop-
mental portfolio, initially within the areas of oncology and inflammatory diseases where this new technique
offers potentially broad therapeutic applications. The purchase consideration was 201 million Swiss francs,
paid in cash.
Effective 30 September 2008 the Group acquired a 100% controlling interest in Mirus Bio Corporation
(‘Mirus’), a privately owned US biotechnology company based in Madison, Wisconsin. Mirus (now renamed
Roche Madison Inc.) focuses on the discovery and development of innovative nucleic acid based techno-
logies, including a proprietary RNAi (ribonucleic acid interference) delivery platform. Mirus is reported as part
of the Roche Pharmaceuticals operating segment. The acquisition will further strengthen the Group’s research
and development pipeline in RNAi therapeutics, which provides the capabilities to target complex diseases
such as cancer, respiratory or metabolic disorders. The purchase consideration was 136million Swiss francs,
paid in cash.
There were other minor business combinations with a total purchase consideration of 17 million Swiss francs.
The combined purchase consideration for other acquisitions has been allocated as shown below.
Other acquisitions: net assets acquired | in millions of CHF
Carrying value Fair value Carrying value
prior to acquisition adjustments upon acquisition
Property, plant and equipment 4 (1) 3
Intangible assets
— Product intangibles: in use – 26 26
— Product intangibles: not available for use – 253 253
— Technology intangibles: in use – 92 92
Deferred income taxes – (119) (119)
Cash 13 – 13
Other net assets (liabilities) (20) – (20)
Net identifiable assets (3) 251 248
Goodwill 289
Purchase consideration 537
Goodwill represents a control premium and synergies that can be obtained from the Group’s existing
business. None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The fair value of other net assets (liabilities) includes receivables with a fair value of 3 million Swiss francs
which is expected to be fully collectable.
Directly attributable transaction costs of 6 million Swiss francs were incurred in these transactions. These
arereported within general and administration expenses in the current period as part of the operating result
of the Roche Pharmaceuticals operating segment.63
Acquisitions — 2008: impact on results | in millions of CHF
Revenues from Inventory
external fair value Amortisation of
customers adjustment intangible assets Operating profit Net income
Impact on reported results
Piramed – – – (10) (7)
ARIUS – – – (6) (4)
Mirus – – (2) (4) (2)
Pharmaceuticals Division – – (2) (20) (13)
Ventana 380 (33) (74) (59) (38)
Minor business combinations – – – – –
Diagnostics Division 380 (33) (74) (59) (38)
Group 380 (33) (76) (79) (51)
Estimated impact on results
if acquisition assumed effective
1 January 2008
Piramed – – – (15) (11)
ARIUS – – – (17) (11)
Mirus – – (9) (13) (7)
Pharmaceuticals Division – – (9) (45) (29)
Ventanaa) 405 – (80) (16) (10)
Minor business combinations 8 – (5) (4) (3)
Diagnostics Division 413 – (85) (20) (13)
Group 413 – (94) (65) (42)
The above figures exclude directly attributable transaction costs of 6 million Swiss francs related to acquisitions by the Pharmaceuticals
Division and 41 million Swiss francs related to acquisitions by the Diagnostics Division. Corresponding tax impacts are also excluded.
a) The figures exclude inventory fair value adjustments of 33 million Swiss francs and integration costs of 15 million Swiss francs related
to Ventana. Corresponding tax impacts are also excluded.
Acquisitions — 2008 net cash outflow | in millions of CHF
Cash consideration Cash in Net cash
paid acquired company outflow
Ventana (2,532) 45 (2,487)
Other acquisitions (530) 13 (517)
Total (3,062) 58 (3,004)
The above cash consideration paid for Ventana does not include the subsequent payment of 1,285 million
Swiss francs to purchase the remaining shares in Ventana held by third parties to give the Group a 100%
interest in Ventana. This is reported as financing cash flow in the cash flow statement within the heading
‘Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries’.
www.global-reports.com64
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Future acquisitions | The Group has announced a number of minor business combinations which are
expected to be completed in the first half of 2009, subject to shareholder approval and regulatory clearance
as appropriate. The total purchase consideration, excluding transaction costs, is estimated at approximately
77 million Swiss francs in cash. Funds will be provided from Group’s cash on hand at the time of closing.
Acquisitions — 2007
BioVeris | Effective 26 June 2007 the Group acquired a 100% controlling interest in BioVeris Corporation
(‘BioVeris’), a publicly owned US company that had been listed on the NASDAQ under the symbol ‘BIOV’.
BioVeris is a healthcare and biosecurity company based in Gaithersburg, Maryland, that specialises in
developing proprietary technologies in diagnostics. BioVeris is now reported as part of the Diagnostics
operating segment. The purchase consideration was 745 million Swiss francs, which consisted of 741 million
Swiss francs of cash and 4 million Swiss francs of directly attributable costs. This has been allocated
asfollows:
BioVeris acquisition: net assets acquired | in millions of CHF
Carrying value Fair value Carrying value
prior to acquisition adjustments upon acquisition
Property, plant and equipment 5 – 5
Intangible assets
— Product intangibles: in use 16 101 117
Deferred income taxes 8 (8) –
Cash 6 – 6
Other net assets (liabilities) 77 – 77
Net identifiable assets 112 93 205
Goodwill 540
Purchase consideration 745
Goodwill represents assets that cannot be recognised separately and measured reliably and synergies that
canbe obtained from the Group’s existing electrochemiluminescence (ECL) immunochemistry business. Italso
represents the premium paid over the traded market price to obtain control of the business. Following the
acquisition, restructuring expenses of 29 million Swiss francs were incurred. These were reported within
general and administration expenses as part of the operating result for 2007 of the Diagnostics operating
segment.
Tanox | Effective 2 August 2007, Genentech acquired a 100% controlling interest in Tanox, Inc. (‘Tanox’),
apublicly owned US company that had been listed on the NASDAQ under the symbol ‘TNOX’. Tanox
isabiotechnology company based in Houston, Texas, that specialises in the discovery and development of
biotherapeutics based on monoclonal antibody technology. Genentech and Tanox have been working together
in collaboration with Novartis since 1996 to develop and commercialise Xolair. The purchase consideration
was 1,124 million Swiss francs, which consisted of 1,114 million Swiss francs of cash and 10 million Swiss
francs of directly attributable costs. This has been allocated as follows:65
Tanox acquisition: net assets acquired | in millions of CHF
Carrying value Fair value Carrying value
prior to acquisition adjustments upon acquisition
Property, plant and equipment 13 – 13
Intangible assets
— Product intangibles: in use – 613 613
— Product intangibles: not available for use – 93 93
Deferred income taxes 9 (250) (241)
Cash 120 – 120
Marketable securities 123 – 123
Other net assets (liabilities) 19 32 51
Net identifiable assets 284 488 772
Goodwill 352
Purchase consideration 1,124
Goodwill represents assets that cannot be recognised separately and measured reliably, such as early-stage
research projects. It also represents the premium paid over the traded market price to obtain control of the
business.
Other acquisitions | Effective 28 March 2007 the Group acquired a 100% controlling interest in Therapeutic
Human Polyclonals, Inc. (‘THP’), a privately owned US biotechnology company based in California and
Germany. THP is reported as part of the Roche Pharmaceuticals operating segment. The purchase considera-
tion paid was 69 million Swiss francs in cash.
Effective 25 May 2007 the Group acquired a 100% controlling interest in 454 Life Sciences, a majority-owned
US subsidiary of CuraGen Corporation. 454 Life Sciences develops and commercialises novel instrumentation
for high-throughput DNA sequencing and is based in Branford, Connecticut. 454 Life Sciences is reported
aspart of the Diagnostics operating segment. The purchase consideration paid was 189 million Swiss francs
in cash, which consisted of 188 million Swiss francs of cash and 1 million Swiss francs of directly attributable
costs.
Effective 8 August 2007 the Group acquired a 100% controlling interest in NimbleGen Systems, Inc.
(‘NimbleGen’), a privately owned US company. NimbleGen develops and commercialises high density DNA
microarrays and is based in Madison, Wisconsin. NimbleGen is reported as part of the Diagnostics operating
segment. The purchase consideration was 316 million Swiss francs in cash.
There were other minor business combinations with a total purchase consideration of 18 million Swiss francs.
The combined purchase consideration for other acquisitions has been allocated as shown below.
Other acquisitions: net assets acquired | in millions of CHF
Carrying value Fair value Carrying value
prior to acquisition adjustments upon acquisition
Property, plant and equipment 16 (1) 15
Intangible assets
— Product intangibles: in use 19 204 223
— Product intangibles: not available for use – 10 10
— Technology intangibles: in use – 34 34
Deferred income taxes – (44) (44)
Cash 25 – 25
Other net assets (liabilities) (9) 2 (7)
Net identifiable assets 51 205 256
Goodwill 336
Purchase consideration 592
www.global-reports.com66
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Goodwill represents assets that cannot be recognised separately and measured reliably, such as early-stage
research projects, a control premium and synergies that can be obtained from the Group’s existing business.
Acquisitions — 2007: net cash outflow | in millions of CHF
Cash consideration Cash in Net cash
paid acquired company outflow
BioVeris (745) 6 (739)
Tanox (1,124) 120 (1,004)
Other acquisitions (592) 25 (567)
Total (2,461) 151 (2,310)
8. Changes in Group organisation
As described in Note 3, on 21 July 2008 the Group announced an offer to purchase all outstanding shares
ofGenentech. Following the closing of a transaction, Genentech’s South San Francisco site would become
theheadquarters of the Group’s combined pharmaceuticals operations in the United States. On 21 July 2008
the Group also announced that the Roche Pharmaceuticals business in the US would close manufacturing
operations at its site in Nutley, New Jersey, and commercial operations would be moved to Genentech.
Theresearch site at Palo Alto, California, would be closed with the research activities being transferred to
Nutley and to Genentech.
The current status of the offer is described in Note 3. During 2008 significant costs were incurred in connec-
tion with the proposed Genentech transaction and the US reorganisation, as described below. These are
disclosed separately in the income statement due to the materiality of the amounts and in order to fairly
present the Group’s results. Costs of other restructuring programmes that are less material anddo not funda-
mentally change the Group’s organisation are expensed in the current period and reported within general
andadministration expenses.
Changes in Group organisation | in millions of CHF
2008
Roche Pharmaceuticals operating segment
— US reorganisation costs 149
Total Roche Pharmaceuticals operating segment 149
Genentech operating segment
— Genentech Employee Retention Program expenses 94
Total Genentech operating segment 94
Total Pharmaceuticals Division 243
The total income tax benefit recorded in respect of changes in Group organisation was 93 million Swiss francs
(see Note 6).
Roche Pharmaceuticals US reorganisation | During 2008 costs were incurred as shown in the table below
which are independent of the completion of the proposed Genentech transaction. These mainly relate to
theclosure of the Palo Alto site and the closure of manufacturing at the Nutley site, but also include costs
associated with the reorganisation including the transfer of the research operations from Palo Alto and other
activities.67
Roche Pharmaceuticals US reorganisation costs | in millions of CHF
2008
Employee-related costs
— Termination costs 99
— Pensions and other post-employment benefits (12)
— Retention plans and other employee benefits 15
— Other employee-related costs 6
Total employee-related costs 108
Site closure costs
— Impairment of property, plant and equipment 10
— Accelerated depreciation of property, plant and equipment 26
— Other site closure costs 5
Total site closure costs 41
Other reorganisation expenses –
Total US reorganisation costs 149
Genentech Employee Retention Program | On 18 August 2008 Genentech announced a broad-based
employee retention program, consisting of two retention plans that together cover substantially all employees
of the company. The program is estimated to cost approximately 375 million US dollars payable in cash and is
being implemented in lieu of Genentech’s 2008 annual stock option grant. The timing of the payments related
to this program will depend on the outcome of the Roche Proposal. If a merger of Genentech with Roche
oran affiliate of Roche has not occurred on or before 30 June 2009, Genentech will pay the retention bonus
at that time in accordance with the terms of the program. The costs of the retention program are currently
recognised on a straight-line basis over the period from 18 August 2008 to 30 June 2009. If a merger of
Genentech with Roche or an affiliate of Roche has occurred on or before 30 June 2009, then the timing of
thepayments and the recognition of the expense will depend on the terms of the merger. During 2008,
totalcosts for the retention program were 175 million Swiss francs, of which 146 million Swiss francs were
expensed and 29 million Swiss francs were capitalised into inventory, which will be recognised as cost
ofsales as products manufactured after the initiation of the retention program are sold. If Genentech had
granted an annual stock option award, as in previous years, with the same total value as the retention pro-
gram then the costs would have been expensed over the four year vesting period and the amount expensed
in2008 would have been approximately 52 million Swiss francs. Accordingly the additional incremental costs
incurred in 2008 for the retention plan are reported as part of changes in Group organisation, since these
aredirectly attributable to the announcement of the Roche Proposal.
Genentech Employee Retention Program expenses | in millions of CHF
2008
Marketing and distribution 14
Research and development 26
General and administration 12
Total included in operating profit before exceptional items 52
Changes in Group organisation 94
Total Genentech Employee Retention Program expenses 146
www.global-reports.com68
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
9. Employee benefits
Employee remuneration | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Wages and salaries 8,363 8,180
Social security costs 948 943
Defined contribution post-employment plans 253 259
Operating expenses for defined benefit post-employment plans10 317 370
Equity compensation plans11 513 608
Genentech Employee Retention Program8 146 –
Termination costs — Roche Pharmaceuticals US reorganisation8 99 –
Other employee benefits 526 465
Employee remuneration included in operating results 11,165 10,825
Expected return on plan assets for defined benefit post-employment plans10 (688) (670)
Interest cost for defined benefit post-employment plans10 652 612
Total employee remuneration 11,129 10,767
Other employee benefits consist mainly of life insurance schemes and certain other insurance schemes
providing medical coverage and other long-term and short-term disability benefits. The charges for employee
benefits in the operating results are included in the relevant expenditure line by function. The expected
returnon plan assets and interest cost from defined benefit plans are included as part of financial income
andfinancing costs, respectively (see Note 5).
10. Pensions and other post-employment benefits
The Group’s objective is to provide attractive and competitive post-employment benefits to employees,
whileat the same time ensuring that the various plans are appropriately financed and managing any potential
impacts on the Group’s long-term financial position. Most employees are covered by pension plans sponsored
by Group companies. The nature of such plans varies according to legal regulations, fiscal requirements and
market practice in the countries in which the employees are employed. Other post-employment benefits
consist mostly of post-retirement healthcare and life insurance schemes, principally in the United States.
Post-employment benefit plans are classified for IFRS as ‘defined contribution plans’ if the Group pays fixed
contributions into a separate fund or to a third-party financial institution and will have no further legal or
constructive obligation to pay further contributions. All other plans are classified as ‘defined benefit plans’,
even if the Group’s potential obligation is relatively minor or has a relatively remote possibility of arising.
Consequently most of the Group’s post-employment benefit plans are classified as ‘defined benefit plans’
forthe purpose of these financial statements.
Defined contribution plans
Defined contribution plans typically consist of payments by employees and by the Group to funds admin-
istered by third parties. Payments by the Group were 253 million Swiss francs (2007: 259 million Swiss
francs). No assets or liabilities are recognised in the Group’s balance sheet in respect of such plans,
apartfrom regular prepayments and accruals of the contributions withheld from employees’ wages and
salaries and of the Group’s contributions.69
Defined benefit plans
The Group’s major defined benefit plans are located in Switzerland, the United States, Germany, the United
Kingdom and Japan. Plans are usually established as trusts independent of the Group and are funded
by payments from the Group and by employees. In some cases, notably for the major defined benefit plans
inGermany, the plan is unfunded and the Group pays pensions to retired employees directly from its own
financial resources.
Current and past service costs are charged to the appropriate income statement heading within the operating
results. Pension plan administration and funding is overseen at a corporate level, and any settlement gains
and losses resulting from changes in funding arrangements are reported as general and administration
expenses within the Corporate segment. The expected returns on plan assets and interest costs are charged
to financial income and financing costs, respectively. Actuarial gains and losses are recorded directly in
equity. The recognition of pension assets is limited to the total of the present value of any future refunds from
the plans or reductions in future contributions to the plans and any cumulative unrecognised past service
costs. Adjustments arising from the limit on the recognition of assets for defined benefit plans are recorded
directly in equity.
Defined benefit plans: expenses | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Other post- Other post-
Pension employment Pension employment
plans benefit plans Total plans benefit plans Total
Current service cost 320 17 337 361 22 383
Past service cost (3) 8 5 (2) – (2)
(Gain) loss on curtailment (22) (3) (25) (11) – (11)
(Gain) loss on settlement – – – – – –
Total operating expenses 295 22 317 348 22 370
Expected return on plan assets (647) (41) (688) (630) (40) (670)
Interest cost 593 59 652 556 56 612
Total financial (income) expense (54) 18 (36) (74) 16 (58)
Total expense recognised
in income statement 241 40 281 274 38 312
The funding of the Group’s various defined benefit plans is overseen at a corporate level. Qualified independ-
ent actuaries carry out valuations on a regular basis and for major plans annually as at the balance sheet
date.For funded plans, which are usually trusts independent of the Group’s finances, the net asset/liability
recognised on the Group’s balance sheet corresponds to the over/under funding of the plan, adjusted for
unrecognised past service costs. For unfunded plans, where the Group meets the pension obligations directly
from its own financial resources, a liability for the defined benefit obligation is recorded in the Group’s
balance sheet. Pension assets and liabilities in different defined benefit plans are not offset unless the Group
has a legally enforceable right to use the surplus in one plan to settle obligations in the other plan. Amounts
recognised in the balance sheet for post-employment benefits are predominantly non-current and are
reported in non-current assets and liabilities.
www.global-reports.com70
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Defined benefit plans: funding status at 31 December | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded
plans plans Total plans plans Total
Fair value of plan assets 9,438 – 9,438 12,170 – 12,170
Defined benefit obligation (10,504) (3,078) (13,582) (10,646) (3,344) (13,990)
Over (under) funding (1,066) (3,078) (4,144) 1,524 (3,344) (1,820)
Unrecognised past service costs (21) (1) (22) (23) (1) (24)
Limit on asset recognition – – – (636) – (636)
Reimbursement rights 76 13 89 99 17 116
Net recognised asset (liability) (1,011) (3,066) (4,077) 964 (3,328) (2,364)
Reported as
— Defined benefit plans 503 – 503 1,216 – 1,216
— Reimbursement rights 76 13 89 99 17 116
Post-employment benefit assets 579 13 592 1,315 17 1,332
Post-employment benefit liabilities (1,590) (3,079) (4,669) (351) (3,345) (3,696)
Net recognised asset (liability) (1,011) (3,066) (4,077) 964 (3,328) (2,364)
As disclosed in Note 1, post-employment benefit assets, deferred tax liabilities and equity have been restated in the 31 December 2007
balance sheet following the adoption of IFRIC interpretation 14 in 2008. A reconciliation to the previously published balance sheet is
provided in Note 1.
Further detailed information on plan assets and the defined benefit obligation is given below.
Defined benefit plans: fair value of plan assets and reimbursement rights | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Fair value Reim- Fair value Reim-
of plan bursement of plan bursement
assets rights Total assets rights Total
At 1 January 12,170 116 12,286 11,632 116 11,748
Expected return on plan assets 680 8 688 663 7 670
Actuarial gains (losses) (2,787) (22) (2,809) 491 4 495
Currency translation effects and other (463) (7) (470) (373) (10) (383)
Employer contributions 217 (6) 211 207 (1) 206
Employee contributions 61 – 61 45 – 45
Benefits paid — funded plans (440) – (440) (494) – (494)
Past service cost – – – – – –
Business combinations – – – – – –
Divestment of subsidiaries – – – – – –
Curtailments – – – – – –
Settlements – – – (1) – (1)
At 31 December 9,438 89 9,527 12,170 116 12,286
2008 2007
Invested as
— Shares and other equity instruments 4,033 6,055
— Bonds, debentures and other debt instruments 4,106 4,343
— Property 242 337
— Other assets 1,146 1,551
Total 9,527 12,286
Included within the fair value of plan assets are 337 thousand of the Group’s non-voting equity securities with
a fair value of 55 million Swiss francs (2007: 340 thousand non-voting equity securities with a total fair value
of66 million Swiss francs).71
Defined benefit plans: defined benefit obligation | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Other post- Other post-
Pension employment Pension employment
plans benefit plans Total plans benefit plans Total
At 1 January 12,988 1,002 13,990 13,572 1,026 14,598
Current service cost 320 17 337 361 22 383
Interest cost 593 59 652 556 56 612
Employee contributions 61 – 61 45 – 45
Actuarial (gains) losses 64 (53) 11 (718) 35 (683)
Currency translation effects and other (794) (65) (859) (235) (79) (314)
Benefits paid — funded plans (399) (41) (440) (448) (46) (494)
Benefits paid — unfunded plans (131) (11) (142) (134) (12) (146)
Past service cost – 8 8 1 – 1
Business combinations – – – – – –
Divestment of subsidiaries (11) – (11) – – –
Curtailments (22) (3) (25) (11) – (11)
Settlements – – – (1) – (1)
At 31 December 12,669 913 13,582 12,988 1,002 13,990
Of which
— Funded plans 9,807 697 10,504 9,904 742 10,646
— Unfunded plans 2,862 216 3,078 3,084 260 3,344
Actuarial assumptions
Actuarial assumptions are unbiased and mutually compatible estimates of variables that determine the
ultimate cost of providing post-employment benefits. They are set on an annual basis by local management
and actuaries and are subject to approval by corporate management and the Group’s actuaries. Actuarial
assumptions consist of demographic assumptions on matters such as mortality and employee turnover,
andfinancial assumptions on matters such as salary and benefit levels, interest rates, return on investments
and costs of medical benefits. The Group operates defined benefit plans in many countries and the actuarial
assumptions vary based upon local economic and social conditions.
Demographic assumptions | The most significant demographic assumptions relate to mortality rates.
TheGroup’s actuaries use mortality tables which take into account historic patterns and expected changes,
such as further increases in longevity. The mortality tables used for the major schemes are:
• Germany: Heubeck tables 2005G.
• Japan: National Census (No.19 Life Table).
• Switzerland: BVG 2005.
• United Kingdom: non-pensioners — PA92C25 rated down one year.
• United Kingdom: pensioners — PA92C10 rated down one year.
• United States: RP2000 projected to 2010.
Rates of employee turnover, disability and early retirement are based on historical behaviour within Group
companies.
Financial assumptions | These are based on market expectations for the period over which the obligations
are to be settled. The ranges of assumptions used in the actuarial valuations of the most significant plans,
which are in countries with stable currencies and interest rates, are shown below.
www.global-reports.com72
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Defined benefit plans: financial actuarial assumptions
2008 2007
Weighted Weighted
average Range average Range
Discount rates 4.84% 2%—9% 4.96% 2%—8%
Expected rates of return on plan assets 5.67% 1%—10% 5.83% 1%—10%
Expected rates of salary increases 3.50% 2%—7% 3.59% 0%—7%
Medical cost trend rate 8.76% 8%—9% 9.39% 8%—10%
Discount rates, which are used to calculate the discounted present value of the defined benefit obligation,
aredetermined with reference to market yields on high quality corporate bonds, or government bonds
incountries where there is not a deep market in corporate bonds. The currency and term of the bonds is
consistent with the obligation being discounted. The interest cost included in the income statement
iscalculated by multiplying the discount rate by the defined benefit obligation.
Expected returns on plan assets are based on market expectations of expected returns on the assets in
funded plans over the duration of the related obligation. This takes into account the split of the plan assets
between equities, bonds, property and other investments. The calculation includes assumptions concerning
expected dividend and interest income, realised and unrealised gains on plan assets and taxes and adminis-
tration costs borne by the plan. These are based on long-term market expectations and the actual per-
formance is continually monitored by corporate management. Due to the long-term nature of the obligations,
the assumptions used for matters such as returns on investments may not necessarily be consistent
withrecent historical patterns. The expected return on plan assets included in the income statement is
calculated by multiplying the expected rate of return by the fair value of plan assets. The difference bet-
ween the expected return and the actual return in any twelve month period is an actuarial gain/loss and is
recorded directly to equity. The actual return on plan assets was a loss of 2,107 million Swiss francs
(2007:gain of 703million Swiss francs).
Expected rates of salary increases, which are used to calculate the defined benefit obligation and the current
service cost included in the income statement, are based on the latest expectation and historical behaviour
within Group companies.
Medical cost trend rates are used to calculate the defined benefit obligation and the current service cost
included in the income statement of post-employment medical plans. These take into account the benefits
setout in the plan terms and expected future changes in medical costs. Since the Group’s major post-
employment medical plans are for US employees, these rates are driven by developments in the United States.
The effect of one percentage point increase or decrease in the medical cost trend rate is shown below.
Defined benefit plans: sensitivity of medical cost trend rate | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
+1% –1% +1% –1%
Current service cost and interest cost 9 (8) 10 (9)
Defined benefit obligation 87 (74) 60 (151)
Funding summary
A five-year summary of the funding status of the Group’s defined benefit plans is shown in the table below.73
Defined benefit plans: summary of funding status | in millions of CHF
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Funded plans
— Fair value of plan assets 9,438 12,170 11,632 10,858 9,922
— Defined benefit obligation (10,504) (10,646) (11,002) (10,976) (10,233)
— Over (under) funding (1,066) 1,524 630 (118) (311)
Unfunded plans
— Defined benefit obligation (3,078) (3,344) (3,596) (3,630) (2,731)
Increase (decrease) in funding status
arising from experience adjustments
— Fair value of plan assets (2,787) 40 626 547 13
— Defined benefit obligation (126) (235) (249) 49 77
Increase (decrease) in funding status
arising from changes in actuarial
assumptions
— Fair value of plan assets – – – – –
— Defined benefit obligation 115 1,295 384 (1,148) (636)
Cash flows
The Group incurred cash flows from its defined benefit plans as shown in the table below.
Defined benefit plans: cash flows | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Employer contributions — funded plans (211) (206)
Benefits paid — unfunded plans (142) (146)
Total cash inflow (outflow) (353) (352)
Based on the most recent actuarial valuations, the Group expects that employer contributions for funded
plans in 2009 will be approximately 494 million Swiss francs, which include an estimated 317 million Swiss
francs of additional contributions. Benefits paid for unfunded plans are estimated to be approximately
130million Swiss francs.
Amounts recorded in equity
The actuarial gains and losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense were losses of
2,820 million Swiss francs (2007: gains of 1,178 million Swiss francs). The total amount at 31 December 2008
was an accumulated loss of 1,433 million Swiss francs (2007: accumulated gain of 1,387 million Swiss francs).
In addition the recognition of pension assets is limited to the total of the present value of any future refunds
from the plans or reductions in future contributions to the plans and the cumulative unrecognised past service
costs. Adjustments arising from this limit on asset recognition are recorded directly in equity. In 2008 this
adjustment was an increase of 636 million Swiss francs (2007: decrease of 636 million Swiss francs).
www.global-reports.com74
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
11. Employee stock options and other equity compensation
benefits
The Group operates several equity compensation plans, including separate plans at Genentech and Chugai.
Effective 1 January 2005 the Group adopted IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’. Amongst other matters,
the standard requires that the fair value of all equity compensation plan awards granted to employees be
estimated at grant date and recorded as an expense over the vesting period. The expense is charged
againstthe appropriate income statement heading.
Expenses for equity compensation plans | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Cost of sales 70 90
Marketing and distribution 101 132
Research and development 174 206
General and administration 168 180
Total operating expenses 513 608
Share option plans
Roche Option Plan 7 6
Genentech Stock Option Plan 336 433
Chugai Stock Acquisition Rights 2 3
Total share option plans 345 442
Other equity compensation plans
Roche Connect 13 13
Genentech Employee Stock Purchase Program 33 32
Roche Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights 120 100
Roche Performance Share Plan 15 16
Roche Stock Appreciation Rights (13) 5
Total other equity compensation plans 168 166
Total operating expenses 513 608
of which
— Equity-settled 526 603
— Cash-settled (13) 575
Cash inflow (outflow) from equity compensation plans | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Share option plans
Roche Option Plan (18) (19)
Genentech Stock Option Plan 620 408
Chugai Stock Acquisition Rights – 1
Total share option plans 602 390
Other equity compensation plans
Roche Connect (13) (13)
Genentech Employee Stock Purchase Program 115 134
Roche Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (106) (61)
Roche Performance Share Plan – –
Roche Stock Appreciation Rights (35) (97)
Total other equity compensation plans (39) (37)
Total cash inflow (outflow) 563 353
of which
— Equity-settled 598 450
— Cash-settled (35) (97)
Roche Long-Term | During 2005 the Group implemented a new global long-term incentive programme
whichisavailable to certain directors, management and employees selected at the discretion of the Group.
The programme consists of Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs), with the Group having the
alternative of granting awards under the existing Roche Option Plan.
Share option plans
Roche Option Plan | Awards under this plan give employees the right to purchase non-voting equity
securities at an exercise price specified at the grant date. The options, which are non-tradable equity-settled
awards, have a seven-year duration and vest on a phased basis over three years, subject to continued
employment. The Group covers such obligations by purchasing non-voting equity securities or derivatives
thereon (see Note 28). With the introduction of Roche Long-Term in 2005, the number of options granted
under the Roche Option Plan was significantly reduced, as most eligible employees now receive Roche
Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights instead.
Roche Option Plan — movement in number of options outstanding
2008 2007
Number Weighted average Number Weighted average
of options exercise price of options exercise price
(thousands) (CHF) (thousands) (CHF)
Outstanding at 1 January 1,203 139.50 1,416 117.83
Granted 362 194.64 194 229.68
Forfeited (40) 199.24 (10) 163.98
Exercised (131) 111.80 (397) 105.64
Expired – – – –
Outstanding at 31 December 1,394 154.71 1,203 139.50
— of which exercisable 890 127.45 875 115.71
www.global-reports.com76
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Roche Option Plan — terms of options outstanding as at 31 December 2008
Options outstanding Options exercisable
Number Weighted average Weighted average Number Weighted average
outstanding years remaining exercise exercisable exercise
Year of grant (thousands) contractual life price (CHF) (thousands) price (CHF)
2002 53 0.20 115.09 53 115.09
2003 222 1.17 78.48 222 78.48
2004 362 2.17 129.50 362 129.50
2005 116 3.17 123.16 116 123.16
2006 112 4.17 195.18 74 195.18
2007 177 5.18 229.68 60 229.68
2008 352 6.11 194.61 3 195.80
Total 1,394 3.56 154.71 890 127.45
Genentech Stock Option Plan | The Genentech Stock Option Plan was adopted in 1999 and amended
thereafter. In April 2004 Genentech’s shareholders approved an equity incentive plan. The plans allow for the
granting of various stock options, incentive stock options and stock purchase rights to employees, directors
and consultants of Genentech. No incentive stock options and stock purchase rights have been granted
under this plan to date. The options granted, which are non-tradable equity-settled awards, have a ten-year
duration and vest on a phased basis over four years, subject to continued employment.
Genentech Stock Option Plan — movement in number of options outstanding
2008 2007
Number Weighted average Number Weighted average
of options exercise price of options exercise price
(millions) (USD) (millions) (USD)
Outstanding at 1 January 92 60.94 88 54.53
Granted 1 79.23 18 79.40
Forfeited (3) 80.52 (4) 76.45
Exercised (13) 44.83 (10) 32.76
Expired – – – –
Outstanding at 31 December 77 63.06 92 60.94
— of which exercisable 56 56.51 54 48.46
Genentech Stock Option Plan — terms of options outstanding at 31 December 2008
Options outstanding Options exercisable
Number Weighted average Weighted average Number Weighted average
outstanding years remaining exercise exercisable exercise
Range of exercise prices (USD) (millions) contractual life price (USD) (millions) price (USD)
6.27—8.89 0.2 6.39 6.81 0.2 6.81
10.00—14.35 6.2 2.85 13.68 6.2 13.68
15.04—22.39 4.5 2.35 20.89 4.5 20.89
22.88—33.00 0.1 2.52 26.08 0.1 26.08
35.63—53.23 20.3 4.76 47.11 20.3 47.11
53.95—75.90 2.0 7.85 68.03 0.9 63.31
75.99—98.80 44.1 7.75 81.77 23.8 82.70
Total 77.4 6.25 63.06 56.0 56.51
Chugai Stock Acquisition Rights | During 2003 Chugai adopted a Stock Acquisition Rights programme.
Theprogramme allows for the granting of rights to employees and directors of Chugai. Each right entitles the
holder to purchase 100 Chugai shares at a specified exercise price. The options, which are non-tradable
equity-settled awards, have a ten-year duration and vest after two years.77
Chugai Stock Acquisition Rights — movement in number of rights outstanding
2008 2007
Weighted average Weighted average
Number exercise price Number exercise price
of options (JPY) of options (JPY)
Outstanding at 1 January 13,002 217,089 9,886 182,925
Granted – – 3,550 303,900
Forfeited – – – –
Exercised (36) 145,400 (434) 148,965
Expired – – – –
Outstanding at 31 December 12,966 217,288 13,002 217,089
— of which exercisable 9,416 184,633 6,012 161,587
Chugai Stock Acquisition Rights — terms of rights outstanding at 31 December 2008
Rights outstanding Rights exercisable
Weighted average Weighted average Weighted average
Number years remaining exercise Number exercise
Year of grant outstanding contractual life price (JPY) exercisable price (JPY)
2003 1,276 4.50 145,400 1,276 145,400
2004 2,180 5.25 167,500 2,180 167,500
2005 2,520 6.25 164,900 2,520 164,900
2006 3,440 7.25 224,500 3,440 224,500
2007 3,550 8.25 303,900 – –
Total 12,966 6.72 217,288 9,416 184,633
Issues of share options in 2008 | Issues of share options in 2008, including the methodology used to
calculate fair value and the main inputs to the valuation models, are described below.
Issues of share option plans in 2008
Roche Genentech Stock
Option Plan Option Plan
Number of options granted 362 thousand 1 million
Underlying equity Roche non-voting equity securities Genentech common stock
Currency Swiss francs US dollars
Vesting period Progressively Progressively
over 3 years over 4 years
Contractual life 7 years 10 years
Weighted average fair value of options issued 22.24 22.39
Option pricing model used Binomial Binomial
Inputs to option pricing model
— Share price at grant date 194.64 79.23
— Exercise price 194.64 79.23
— Expected volatility 24.6% 24.1%
— Expected dividend yield 7.65% 0%
— Early exercise factor 1.649 1.484
— Expected exit rate 8.2% 8.6%
Volatility for Roche options was determined primarily by reference to historically observed prices of the under-
lying equity. Volatility for Genentech options was determined primarily by reference to the implied volatility of
Genentech’s traded options. Risk-free interest rates are derived from zero coupon swap rates at the grant
date taken from Datastream. The early exercise factor describes the ratio between the expected market price
at the exercise date and the exercise price at which early exercises can be expected, based on historically
observed behaviour.
www.global-reports.com78
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Other equity compensation plans
Roche Connect | This programme enables all employees worldwide, except for those in the United States
and certain other countries, to make regular deductions from their salaries to purchase non-voting equity
securities. It is administered by independent third parties. The Group contributes to the programme, which
allows the employees to purchase non-voting equity securities at a discount (usually 20%). The administrator
purchases the necessary non-voting equity securities directly from the market. At 31 December 2008 the
administrator held 1.4 million non-voting equity securities (2007: 1.1 million). The programme has been
operational since 1 October 2002. During the year the cost of the plan was 13 million Swiss francs (2007:
13million Swiss francs), which was reported within the relevant expenditure line by function.
Genentech Employee Stock Purchase Program (ESPP) | Genentech has an employee stock purchase
programme that allows employees to purchase Genentech’s common stock at 85% of the lower of market
value at the grant date or purchase date. In 2008 a total of 1.8 million shares of Genentech common stock
were purchased (2007: 1.7 million shares) resulting in a cash inflow of 115 million Swiss francs (2007:
134million Swiss francs). During the year the cost of the plan was 33 million Swiss francs (2007: 32 million
Swiss francs), which was reported within the relevant expenditure line by function.
Roche Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights | With the introduction of Roche Long-Term in 2005,
theGroup offers Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) to certain directors, management and
employees selected at the discretion of the Group. The S-SARs give employees the right to receive non-voting
equity securities reflecting the value of any appreciation in the market price of the non-voting equity securi-
ties between the grant date and the exercise date. The options, which are non-tradable equity-settled awards,
have a seven-year duration and vest on a phased basis over three years, subject to continued employment.
The Group covers such obligations by purchasing non-voting equity securities, or derivatives thereon
(seeNote 28).
Roche S-SARs — movement in number of rights outstanding
2008 2007
Number Weighted average Number Weighted average
of rights exercise price of rights exercise price
(thousands) (CHF) (thousands) (CHF)
Outstanding at 1 January 7,782 185.60 5,883 156.07
Granted 6,397 194.25 3,025 229.37
Forfeited (477) 206.55 (189) 180.91
Exercised (639) 131.40 (937) 142.36
Expired – – – –
Outstanding at 31 December 13,063 191.72 7,782 185.60
— of which exercisable 4,221 170.86 2,101 149.17
Roche S-SARs — terms of rights outstanding at 31 December 2008
Rights outstanding Rights exercisable
Weighted Weighted
Number Weighted average average Number average
outstanding years remaining exercise exercisable exercise
Year of grant (thousands) contractual life price (CHF) (thousands) price (CHF)
2005 1,878 3.17 123.39 1,878 123.39
2006 2,157 4.17 195.17 1,388 195.17
2007 2,802 5.17 229.36 941 229.36
2008 6,226 6.11 194.21 14 195.80
Total 13,063 5.17 191.72 4,221 170.86
The weighted average fair value of the options granted in 2008 was calculated using a binomial model. The
inputs to the model were consistent with those used for the Roche Option Plan 2008 awards given previously.
The resulting weighted average fair value per right is CHF 22.09, giving a total fair value of 141 million Swiss
francs which is charged over the vesting period of three years.79
Roche Performance Share Plan | The Group offers future non-voting equity security awards (or, at the
discretion of the Board of Directors, their cash equivalent) to certain directors and key senior managers.
Theprogramme was established at the beginning of 2002 and was in effect for three years. During 2004
theBoard of Directors approved a new three-year cycle of the Roche Performance Share Plan (PSP) to
operateduring 2005—2007. Additional cycles of the PSP with similar conditions were approved to operate
during 2006—2008, 2007—2009 and 2008—2010. The terms of these awards are set out in the table below.
The amount of non-voting equity securities allocated will depend upon the individual’s salary level, the
achievement of performance targets linked to the Group’s Total Shareholder Return (shares and non-voting
equity securities combined) relative to the Group’s peers during the three-year period from the date of the
grant, and the discretion of the Board of Directors. These are non-tradable equity-settled awards. Each award
will result in between zero and two non-voting equity securities, depending upon the achievement of the
performance targets.
Roche Performance Share Plan — terms of outstanding awards at 31 December 2008
2006—2008 2007—2009 2008—2010
Number of awards outstanding (thousands) 50 74 89
Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years
Allocated to recipients in Feb. 2009 Feb. 2010 Feb. 2011
Fair value per unit at grant (CHF) 210.06 239.49 201.22
Total fair value at grant (CHF millions) 12 19 18
The weighted average fair value of the awards granted in 2008 was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation.
The input parameters to the model were the covariance matrix between Roche and the other individual
companies of the peer group based on a three-year history and a risk-free rate of 2.97%. The valuation also
takes into account the defined rank and performance structure which determines the payout of the PSP.
Roche Stock Appreciation Rights | Some employees of certain North American subsidiaries of the Group
receive Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) as part of their compensation. The SARs, which are non-tradable
cash-settled awards, may be exercised after a vesting period of between one and three years for a cash
payment, based upon the amount by which the market price of the Group’s American Depositary Receipts
(ADRs) at the point of exercise exceeds the strike price (grant price at issuance). Following the implementa-
tion of Roche Long-Term (see above), the Group does not plan to award any further cash-settled SARs and
no awards have been made since 2004. On 9 January 2009 the ratio of ADRs to non-voting equity securities
(Genussscheine)was changed from 2:1 to 4:1. The information below has been restated for this change.
Roche Stock Appreciation Rights | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Liability at 31 December 43 97
Intrinsic value of vested rights at 31 December 43 97
Roche Stock Appreciation Rights — terms of rights outstanding at 31 December 2008
Rights outstanding and exercisable
Number outstanding
and exercisable Weighted average
Year of grant (thousands) Expiry price (USD)
2003 824 Feb. 2010 14.41
2004 1,744 Feb. 2011 26.04
Total 2,568 22.31
The fair value at 31 December 2008 was calculated using a binomial model. The inputs to the model were
theADR price at 31 December 2008 (USD 76.55, before change in exchange ratio on 9 January 2009); the
exercise prices given in the above table, and other inputs consistent with those used for the Roche Option
Plan 2008 awards given previously.
www.global-reports.com80
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
12. Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment: movements in carrying value of assets | in millions of CHF
Buildings
and land Machinery and Construction
Land improvements equipment in progress Total
At 1 January 2007
Cost 1,126 9,419 13,581 3,273 27,399
Accumulated depreciation and impairment – (3,030) (7,952) – (10,982)
Net book value 1,126 6,389 5,629 3,273 16,417
Year ended 31 December 2007
At 1 January 2007 1,126 6,389 5,629 3,273 16,417
Additions 22 209 983 2,434 3,648
Disposals (11) (17) (113) (21) (162)
BioVeris acquisition7 – 1 4 – 5
Tanox acquisition7 – – – 13 13
Other business combinations7 – – 12 3 15
Transfers – 1,033 1,115 (2,148) –
Depreciation charge – (332) (1,228) – (1,560)
Impairment charge – (1) (5) – (6)
Currency translation effects (45) (247) (116) (130) (538)
At 31 December 2007 1,092 7,035 6,281 3,424 17,832
Cost 1,092 10,207 14,681 3,424 29,404
Accumulated depreciation and impairment – (3,172) (8,400) – (11,572)
Net book value 1,092 7,035 6,281 3,424 17,832
Year ended 31 December 2008
At 1 January 2008 1,092 7,035 6,281 3,424 17,832
Additions 11 144 877 2,155 3,187
Disposals (13) (11) (61) (12) (97)
Ventana acquisition7 15 25 25 30 95
Other business combinations7 – – 3 – 3
Divestments of subsidiaries34 (4) (46) (51) (6) (107)
Transfers – 1,692 1,262 (2,954) –
Depreciation charge – (479) (1,197) – (1,676)
Impairment charge – (17) (11) – (28)
Currency translation effects (28) (406) (401) (184) (1,019)
At 31 December 2008 1,073 7,937 6,727 2,453 18,190
Cost 1,073 11,410 15,203 2,453 30,139
Accumulated depreciation
and impairment – (3,473) (8,476) – (11,949)
Net book value 1,073 7,937 6,727 2,453 18,190
Impairment charges arise from changes in the estimates of the future cash flows expected to result from the
use of the asset and its eventual disposal. Factors such as changes in the planned use of buildings, machinery
or equipment, or closure of facilities, the presence or absence of competition and technical obsolescence
could result in shortened useful lives or impairment. Impairment charges of 18 million Swiss francs
(2007:5million Swiss francs) are reported as part of ‘Cost of sales’ and impairment charges of 10 million
Swiss francs (2007: zero) are reported as part of ‘Changes in Group organisation’ (see Note 8).81
Borrowing costs totalling 42 million Swiss francs using a rate of 4.79% (2007: 48 million Swiss francs using
arate of 4.79%) were capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
Leasing arrangements where the Group is the lessee
Finance leases | As at 31 December 2008 the capitalised cost of property, plant and equipment under
finance leases was 174 million Swiss francs (2007: 188 million Swiss francs) and the net book value of these
assets was 53 million Swiss francs (2007: 66 million Swiss francs).
Finance leases: future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable leases | in millions of CHF
Future minimum lease Present value of future
payments minimum lease payments
2008 2007 2008 2007
Within one year 3 6 3 6
Between one and five years 2 3 1 3
More than five years – – – –
Total 5 9 4 9
Future finance charges – – 1 –
Total future minimum lease
payments (undiscounted) 5 9 5 9
In addition to the above, Genentech leasing arrangements are disclosed in Note 3.
Operating leases | Group companies are party to a number of operating leases, mainly for plant and
machinery, including motor vehicles, and for certain short-term property rentals. The arrangements do not
impose any significant restrictions on the Group. Total operating lease rental expense was 411 million
Swissfrancs (2007: 402 million Swiss francs).
Operating leases: future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable leases | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Within one year 220 224
Between one and five years 412 404
More than five years 173 196
Total minimum payments 805 824
Leasing arrangements where the Group is the lessor
Finance leases | Certain assets, mainly diagnostics instruments, are leased to third parties through finance
lease arrangements. Such assets are reported as receivables at an amount equal to the net investment in
thelease. Lease income from finance leases is recognised over the term of the lease based on the effective
interest rate method.
www.global-reports.com82
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Finance leases: future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable leases | in millions of CHF
Present value of future
Gross investment in lease minimum lease payments
2008 2007 2008 2007
Within one year 25 27 23 23
Between one and five years 41 44 38 37
More than five years 2 2 2 2
Total 68 73 63 62
Unearned finance income (3) (6) n/a n/a
Unguaranteed residual value n/a n/a 2 5
Net investment in lease 65 67 65 67
The accumulated allowance for uncollectible minimum lease payments was 1 million Swiss francs
(2007: 1 million Swiss francs). There were no contingent rents recognised in income.
Operating leases | Certain assets, mainly some diagnostics instruments, are leased to third parties through
operating lease arrangements. Such assets are reported within property, plant and equipment. Lease income
from operating leases is recognised over the lease term on a straight line basis.
Operating leases: future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable leases | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Within one year 94 72
Between one and five years 212 150
More than five years – –
Total minimum payments 306 222
At 31 December 2008, machinery and equipment with an original cost of 2,356 million Swiss francs (2007:
2,422 million Swiss francs) and a net book value of 997 million Swiss francs (2007: 973 million Swiss francs)
was being leased to third parties. There was no contingent rent recognised as income.
Capital commitments
The Group has non-cancellable capital commitments for the purchase or construction of property, plant and
equipment totalling 2.0 billion Swiss francs (2007: 2.3 billion Swiss francs). In addition, Genentech’s capital
commitments in respect of its manufacturing agreements with Lonza and its leasing arrangements are
described in Note 3.83
13. Goodwill
Goodwill: movements in carrying value of assets | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
At 1 January 6,835 5,914
BioVeris acquisition7 – 540
Tanox acquisition7 – 352
Ventana acquisition7 1,750 –
Other business combinations7 289 336
Impairment charge – –
Currency translation effects (521) (307)
At 31 December 8,353 6,835
Allocated to the following cash-generating units
Pharmaceuticals Division
— Roche Pharmaceuticals 374 128
— Genentech 1,765 1,880
— Chugai 129 110
Total Pharmaceuticals Division 2,268 2,118
Diagnostics Division
— Diabetes Care 770 770
— Professional Diagnostics 1,752 1,879
— Molecular Diagnostics – –
— Applied Science 247 263
— Tissue Diagnostics 799 –
— Strategic goodwill (held at divisional level and not allocated to business areas) 2,517 1,805
Total Diagnostics Division 6,085 4,717
Total Group 8,353 6,835
There are no accumulated impairment losses in goodwill. The goodwill arising from investments in associates
is classified as part of the investments in associates (see Note 15).
Goodwill impairment testing
Pharmaceuticals Division | The division’s reportable operating segments are the cash-generating units used for
the testing of goodwill. For Genentech and Chugai, the recoverable amount is based on fair value less costs to
sell, determined with reference to the publicly quoted share prices of Genentech and Chugai shares. The goodwill
in Roche Pharmaceuticals is not significant in comparison with the Group’s total carrying value of goodwill.
Diagnostics Division | The division’s business areas are the cash-generating units used for the testing of
goodwill. The goodwill arising from the Corange/Boehringer Mannheim acquisition and part of the goodwill from
the Ventana acquisition is recorded and monitored at a divisional level as it relates to the strategic development
of the whole division and cannot be meaningfully allocated to the division’s business areas. Therefore the cash-
generating unit for this goodwill is the entire division. The recoverable amount used in the impairment testing
isbased on value in use. The cash flow projections used are based on the most recent business plans approved
by management. These assume no significant changes in the organisation of the division and include manage-
ment’s latest estimates on sales volume and pricing, and production and other operating costs. These reflect
past experience and are projected over five years. The estimates for the Tissue Diagnostics business area are
projected over ten years, which management believes reflects the long-term nature of this business. The cash
flow projections used do not extend beyond management’s most recent business plans. The discount rate used
is based on a rate of 8.4%, which is derived from a capital asset pricing model using data from Swiss capital
markets, including Swiss Federal Government ten-year bonds and the Swiss Market Index. A weighted average
tax rate of 19.7% is used in the calculations. Management believes that any reasonably possible change in any
of the key assumptions would not cause the carrying value of goodwill to exceed the recoverable amount.
www.global-reports.com84
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
14. Intangible assets
Intangible assets: movements in carrying value of assets | in millions of CHF
Product
Product intangibles: Technology
intangibles: not available intangibles:
in use for use in use Total
At 1 January 2007
Cost 13,646 778 709 15,133
Accumulated amortisation and impairment (9,070) – (594) (9,664)
Net book value 4,576 778 115 5,469
Year ended 31 December 2007
At 1 January 2007 4,576 778 115 5,469
BioVeris acquisition7 117 – – 117
Tanox acquisition7 613 93 – 706
Other business combinations7 223 10 34 267
Additions 255 743 51 1,049
Disposals (1) – – (1)
Amortisation charge (942) – (34) (976)
Impairment charge – (58) – (58)
Currency translation effects (173) (52) (2) (227)
At 31 December 2007 4,668 1,514 164 6,346
Cost 14,251 1,514 772 16,537
Accumulated amortisation and impairment (9,583) – (608) (10,191)
Net book value 4,668 1,514 164 6,346
Allocation by operating segment
— Roche Pharmaceuticals 326 1,085 52 1,463
— Genentech 955 408 35 1,398
— Chugai 440 8 – 448
— Diagnostics 2,947 13 77 3,037
Total Group 4,668 1,514 164 6,346
Year ended 31 December 2008
At 1 January 2008 4,668 1,514 164 6,346
Ventana acquisition7 819 570 – 1,389
Other business combinations7 26 253 92 371
Additions 55 363 – 418
Disposals – – – –
Amortisation charge (927) – (42) (969)
Impairment charge (5) (99) – (104)
Currency translation effects (223) (100) (7) (330)
At 31 December 2008 4,413 2,501 207 7,121
Cost 14,304 2,568 805 17,677
Accumulated amortisation and impairment (9,891) (67) (598) (10,556)
Net book value 4,413 2,501 207 7,121
Allocation by operating segment
— Roche Pharmaceuticals 77 1,361 129 1,567
— Genentech 774 576 11 1,361
— Chugai 440 9 – 449
— Diagnostics 3,122 555 67 3,744
Total Group 4,413 2,501 207 7,12185
Significant intangible assets as at 31 December 2008 | in millions of CHF
Operating Net book Remaining
segment value amortisation period
Product intangibles in use
Tanox acquisition Genentech 475 11 years
Chugai acquisition Chugai 440 4—12 years
Corange/Boehringer Mannheim acquisition Diagnostics 1,299 9 years
Igen acquisition Diagnostics 389 8 years
Ventana acquisition Diagnostics 713 9 years
Product intangibles not available for use
Alnylam alliance Roche Pharmaceuticals 324 n/a
Ventana acquisition Diagnostics 546 n/a
Classification of amortisation and impairment expenses | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Amortisation Impairment Amortisation Impairment
Cost of sales
— Pharmaceuticals 477 – 614 –
— Diagnostics 450 5 328 –
Research and development
— Pharmaceuticals 34 99 31 58
— Diagnostics 8 – 3 –
Total 969 104 976 58
Internally generated intangible assets
The Group currently has no internally generated intangible assets from development as the criteria for the
recognition as an asset are not met.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives
The Group currently has no intangible assets with indefinite useful lives.
Impairment of intangible assets
Impairment charges arise from changes in the estimates of the future cash flows expected to result from the
use of the asset and its eventual disposal. Factors such as the presence or absence of competition, technical
obsolescence or lower than anticipated sales for products with capitalised rights could result in shortened
useful lives or impairment.
2008 | In the Roche Pharmaceuticals operating segment an impairment charge of 30 million Swiss francs was
recorded in the first half of 2008 and a further 69 million Swiss francs were recorded in the second half of 2008.
These relate to product intangibles not available for use and follow from decisions to terminate development of
three compounds with alliance partners. The assets concerned, which were not yet being amortised, were fully
written-down by these charges. In the Diagnostics operating segment an impairment charge of 5 million Swiss
francs was recorded in the second half of 2008 relating to product intangible assets in use. These followed
theregular updating of the division’s business plans and technology assessments in the second half of 2008.
Theassets were written down to their recoverable amount of 13 million Swiss francs, based on a value in
usecalculation using a discount rate of 8.4%.
2007 | In the Genentech operating segment an impairment charge of 42 million Swiss francs was recorded in
the second half of 2007, which relates to a decision to terminate development of compounds with two alliance
partners. In the Roche Pharmaceuticals operating segment an impairment charge of 16 million Swiss francs
was recorded in the first half of 2007, which relates to a decision to terminate development of one compound
with an alliance partner. The assets concerned, which were not yet being amortised, were fully written-down
by these charges.
www.global-reports.com86
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Intangible assets that are not yet available for use mostly represent in-process research and development
assets acquired either through in-licensing arrangements, business combinations or separate purchases.
Asat 31 December 2008 the carrying value of such assets in the Pharmaceuticals Division is 1,946 million
Swiss francs. Of this amount approximately 40% represents projects that have potential decision points
withinthe next twelve months which in certain circumstances could lead toimpairment. Due to the inherent
uncertainties in the research and development process, such assets are particularly at risk of impairment if
theproject in question does not result in a commercialised product.
Potential commitments from alliance collaborations
The Group is party to in-licensing and similar arrangements with its alliance partners. These arrangements
may require the Group to make certain milestone or other similar payments dependent upon the achievement
of agreed objectives or performance targets as defined in the collaboration agreements.
The Group’s current estimate of future third-party commitments for such payments is set out in the table
below. These figures are not risk adjusted, meaning that they include all such potential payments that can
arise assuming all projects currently in development are successful. The timing is based on the Group’s
current best estimate. These figures do not include any potential commitments within the Group, such as
mayarise between the Roche Pharmaceuticals, Genentech and Chugai businesses.
Potential future third-party collaboration payments as at 31 December 2008 | in millions of CHF
Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Group
Within one year 113 24 137
Between one and two years 152 10 162
Between two and three years 135 10 145
Total 400 44 444
15. Associates
The Group’s investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method. The goodwill arising from
investments in associates is classified as part of the investments in associates.
Investments in associates | in millions of CHF
Share of net income Balance sheet value
2008 2007 2008 2007
Total investments in associates 1 2 9 9
The Group has no significant investments in associates and there were no material transactions between
theGroup and its associates. Additional information about associates is given in Note 34.87
16. Financial and other long-term assets
Financial and other long-term assets | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Available-for-sale investments 588 836
Held-to-maturity investments 16 19
Loans receivable 16 19
Long-term trade receivables 73 190
Restricted cash 205 226
Other 42 43
Total financial long-term assets 940 1,333
Long-term employee benefits 230 273
Other 221 254
Total other long-term assets 451 527
Financial long-term assets are held for strategic purposes and are classified as non-current. The available-
for-sale investments are mainly equity investments. Unquoted equity investments classified as available-
for-sale are generally measured at cost, as their fair value cannot be measured reliably. These are primarily
investments in private biotechnology companies, which are kept as part of the Group’s strategic alliance
efforts. The carrying value of equity investments held at cost is 25 million Swiss francs (2007: 26 million
Swissfrancs). The average effective interest rate of held-to-maturity investments is 2.5% (2007: 4.4%).
Loansreceivable comprise all loans to third parties with a term of over one year.
17. Inventories
Inventories | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Raw materials and supplies 702 603
Work in process 1,003 1,168
Finished goods and intermediates 4,466 4,590
Less: provision for slow-moving and obsolete inventory (341) (248)
Total inventories 5,830 6,113
In 2008 expenses relating to inventories expensed through cost of sales totalled 8,419 million Swiss francs
(2007: 8,737 million Swiss francs).
18. Accounts receivable
Accounts receivable | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Trade accounts receivable 9,804 9,834
Notes receivable 181 190
Less: allowances (230) (220)
Total accounts receivable 9,755 9,804
www.global-reports.com88
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
At 31 December 2008 accounts receivable include amounts denominated in US dollars equivalent to
2.8 billion Swiss francs (2007: 3.8 billion Swiss francs) and amounts denominated in euros equivalent
to 3.9 billion Swiss francs (2007: 3.8 billion Swiss francs).
Net bad debt expense was 43 million Swiss francs (2007: 26 million Swiss francs). Significant concentrations
within trade receivables of counterparty credit risk are described in Note 32.
19. Other current assets
Other current assets | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Accrued interest income 145 37
Derivative financial instruments24 262 70
Restricted cash – 889
Other 624 593
Total financial current assets 1,031 1,589
Prepaid expenses 452 355
Other 497 508
Total non-financial current assets 949 863
Total other current assets 1,980 2,452
Restricted cash in 2007 includes 889 million Swiss francs of the surety bond posted by Genentech in con-
nection with the City of Hope litigation (see Note 25). Following the settlement of this litigation the entirety
ofthepledged amount became unrestricted cash and available for use in Genentech’s operations during
thethird quarter of 2008.
20. Marketable securities
Marketable securities | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Financial assets at fair-value-through-profit-or-loss
Held-for-trading investments
— Bonds and debentures 1,027 1,129
Designated as fair-value-through-profit-or-loss
— Bonds and debentures – 78
— Money market instruments and time accounts over three months – 167
— other investments – 178
Total financial assets at fair-value-through-profit-or-loss 1,027 1,552
Available-for-sale financial assets
— Shares 51 292
— Bonds and debentures 6,814 7,624
— Money market instruments and time accounts over three months 7,961 10,965
— Other investments 3 14
Total available-for-sale financial assets 14,829 18,895
Total marketable securities 15,856 20,44789
Marketable securities are held for fund management purposes and are classified as current. They are
primarilydenominated in US dollars and euros. Other investments held for strategic purposes are classified
asnon-current (see Note 16).
Shares | These consist primarily of readily saleable equity securities.
Bonds and debentures | The carrying values, contract maturity and average effective interest rate of debt
securities is shown below.
Bonds and debentures | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Average effective Average effective
Contracted maturity Amount interest rate Amount interest rate
Within one year 2,612 5.81% 2,367 5.05%
Between one and five years 4,178 5.81% 5,690 4.89%
More than five years 1,051 5.35% 774 5.40%
Total bonds and debentures 7,841 5.75% 8,831 4.98%
Money market instruments | These generally have fixed interest rates ranging from 0.05% to 5.50%
(2007:0.72% to 6.13%) depending upon the currency in which they are denominated. They are contracted
tomature within one year of 31 December 2008.
21. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Cash
— Cash in hand and in current or call accounts 1,999 2,792
Cash equivalents
— Time accounts with a maturity of three months or less 2,916 963
Total cash and cash equivalents 4,915 3,755
22. Accounts payable
Accounts payable | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Trade accounts payable 1,053 1,188
Other taxes payable 437 406
Dividends payable 15 –
Other accounts payable 512 267
Total accounts payable 2,017 1,861
www.global-reports.com90
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
23. Accrued and other current liabilities
Accrued liabilities and other current liabilities | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Deferred income 262 231
Accrued payroll and related items 1,838 1,566
Interest payable 95 104
Derivative financial instruments24 194 80
Other accrued liabilities 3,584 3,848
Total accrued and other current liabilities 5,973 5,829
24. Derivative financial instruments
The Group uses derivative financial instruments as part of its risk management and trading strategies.
Thisisdiscussed in Note 32. Derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value. The methods used
fordetermining fair value are described in Note 1.
Derivative financial instruments | in millions of CHF
Assets Liabilities
2008 2007 2008 2007
Foreign currency derivatives
— Forward exchange contracts and swaps 155 29 (151) (71)
— Other 21 4 – (4)
Interest rate derivatives
— Swaps 20 7 (1) –
— Other 23 – – (1)
Other derivatives 43 30 (42) (4)
Total derivative financial instruments19,23 262 70 (194) (80)
Hedge accounting
The Group’s accounting policy on hedge accounting, which is described in Note 1, requires that to qualify for
hedge accounting the hedging relationship must meet several strict conditions on documentation, probability
of occurrence, hedge effectiveness and reliability of measurement.
As described in Note 32, the Group has financial risk management policies for foreign exchange risk, interest
rate risk, market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. When deemed appropriate, certain of the above risks
aremanaged through the use of derivatives. While many of these transactions can be considered as hedges
in economic terms, if the required conditions are not met, then the relationship does not qualify for hedge
accounting. In this case the hedging instrument and the hedged item are reported independently as if there
were no hedging relationship, which means that any derivatives are reported at fair value, with changes
infairvalue included in financial income.
The Group generally limits the use of hedge accounting to certain significant transactions. Consequently as at
31 December 2008 the Group has no fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investment in a for-
eign entity that meet the strict requirements to qualify for hedge accounting, apart from those described below.
The Group has hedged some of its fixed-term debt instruments with interest rate swaps. As at 31December
2008 such instruments, which have been designated and qualify as fair value hedges, are recorded in the
balance sheet as an asset with a fair value of 20 million Swiss francs (2007: asset of 7 million Swiss francs).
During 2008 a gain of 14 million Swiss francs was recorded on these interest rate swaps (2007: gain of 20mil-
lion Swiss francs). As the fair value hedge has been highly effective since inception, the result of the interest
rate swaps is largely offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged debt instruments.91
Genentech has non-US dollar cash flows from future royalty income and development expenses expected
over the next one to five years. To hedge part of this foreign exchange risk Genentech enters into derivative
financial instruments such as options and forward contracts. Genentech has equity investments in various
biotechnology companies that are subject to a greater risk of market fluctuation than the stock market in
general. To manage part of this exposure Genentech enters into derivative financial instruments such as zero
cost collars and forward contracts. As at 31 December 2008 such instruments, which are designated and
qualify for hedge accounting, are recorded as assets with a fair value of 42 million Swiss francs (2007: assets
of 27 million Swiss). These matters are also described in Genentech’s annual report and quarterly SEC filings.
Movements on the fair value reserve for designated cash flow hedges are included in Note 28.
25. Provisions and contingent liabilities
Provisions: movements in recognised liabilities | in millions of CHF
Legal Environmental Restructuring Employee Other
provisions provisions provisions provisions provisions Total
Year ended 31 December 2007
At 1 January 2007 1,445 186 174 237 307 2,349
Additional provisions created 123 36 132 125 339 755
Unused amounts reversed (111) (1) (28) (4) (17) (161)
Utilised during the year (340) (11) (82) (77) (186) (696)
Unwinding of discount5 64 3 – 2 – 69
Currency translation effects (79) (10) (3) (6) (13) (111)
At 31 December 2007 1,102 203 193 277 430 2,205
Of which
— Current portion 999 30 116 41 331 1,517
— Non-current portion 103 173 77 236 99 688
Total provisions 1,102 203 193 277 430 2,205
Year ended 31 December 2008
At 1 January 2008 1,102 203 193 277 430 2,205
Additional provisions created 125 3 191 110 426 855
Unused amounts reversed (354) (18) (17) (10) (39) (438)
Utilised during the year (618) (22) (91) (76) (254) (1,061)
Unwinding of discount5 15 4 1 1 – 21
Currency translation effects (47) (9) (13) (23) (32) (124)
At 31 December 2008 223 161 264 279 531 1,458
Of which
— Current portion 90 19 186 60 449 804
— Non-current portion 133 142 78 219 82 654
Total provisions 223 161 264 279 531 1,458
Expected outflow of resources
— Within one year 90 19 186 60 449 804
— Between one to two years 39 16 29 90 17 191
— Between two to three years 19 10 24 10 17 80
— More than three years 75 116 25 119 48 383
Total provisions 223 161 264 279 531 1,458
www.global-reports.com92
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Major legal cases
Income (expense) from major legal cases is disclosed separately in the income statement due to the mate-
riality of the amounts and in order to fairly present the Group’s results. Income of 271 million Swiss francs
wasrecorded in 2008 following the 24 April 2008 California Supreme Court decision in the City of Hope
litigation (see below). This consists of the 310 million US dollars released to income as a favourable litigation
settlement, net of amounts recorded in respect of final settlement negotiations with the City of Hope National
Medical Center. Costs of other litigation matters that are less material are expensed in the current period
andreported within general and administration expenses. The total income tax expense recorded in respect
ofmajor legal cases was 105 million Swiss francs (see Note 6).
Legal provisions
Legal provisions consist of a number of separate legal matters, including claims arising from trade, in various
Group companies. The majority of any cash outflows for these other matters are expected to occur within
thenext one to three years, although these are dependent on the development of the various litigations.
Significant provisions are discounted by between 4% and 5% where the time value of money is material.
Environmental provisions
Provisions for environmental matters include various separate environmental issues in a number of countries.
By their nature the amounts and timing of any outflows are difficult to predict. The estimated timings of these
cash outflows are shown in the table above. Significant provisions are discounted by between 7% and 8%
where the time value of money is material.
Restructuring provisions
These arise from planned programmes that materially change the scope of business undertaken by the Group
or the manner in which business is conducted. Such provisions include only the costs necessarily entailed
bythe restructuring which are not associated with the recurring activities of the Group. The timings of these
cash outflows are reasonably certain on a global basis and are shown in the table above. Significant pro-
visions are discounted by 4% where the time value of money is material.
Employee provisions
These mostly relate to certain employee benefit obligations, such as sabbatical leave and long-service
benefits. The timings of these cash outflows can be reasonably estimated based on past performance and
areshown in the table above. Significant provisions are discounted by 6% where the time value of money
ismaterial.
Other provisions
Other provisions mostly relate to sales returns and various other provisions from Group companies that do
notfit into the above categories. The timings of cash outflows are by their nature uncertain and the best
estimates are shown in the table above. These provisions are not discounted as the time value of money is
notmaterial in these matters.
Contingent liabilities
The operations and earnings of the Group continue, from time to time and in varying degrees, to be affected
by political, legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments, including those relating to environmental protec-
tion, in the countries in which it operates. The industries in which the Group operates are also subject to
other risks of various kinds. The nature and frequency of these developments and events, not all of which are
covered by insurance, as well as their effect on future operations and earnings, are not predictable.
The Group has entered into strategic alliances with various companies in order to gain access to potential
new products or to utilise other companies to help develop the Group’s own potential new products. Potential
future payments may become due to certain collaboration partners achieving certain milestones as defined
inthe collaboration agreements. The Group’s best estimates of future commitments for such payments are
given in Note 14.93
Roche Pharmaceuticals legal cases
Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. (‘HLR’) and various other Roche affiliates have been named as defendants in
numerous legal actions in the United States and elsewhere relating to the acne medication Accutane. The
litigation alleges that Accutane caused certain serious conditions, including, but not limited to, inflammatory
bowel disease (‘IBD’), birth defects and psychiatric disorders. As of 31 December 2008 HLR is defending
approximately 560 actions brought in various federal and state courts throughout the United States for
personal injuries allegedly resulting from their use of Accutane. Most of the actions allege IBD as a result
ofAccutane use.
All of the actions pending in federal court alleging IBD were consolidated for pre-trial proceedings in a
MultiDistrict Litigation in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida, Tampa Division.
InJuly 2007 the District Court granted summary judgment in favour of HLR in the lead federal IBD cases.
Theplaintiffs appealed and in August 2008 these rulings were affirmed by the United States Court of
Appealsforthe Eleventh Circuit.
All of the actions pending in state court in New Jersey alleging IBD were consolidated for pre-trial proceed-
ings in the Superior Court of New Jersey, Law Division, Atlantic County. As of 31 December 2008 juries in the
Superior Court have ruled in favour of the plaintiff in five cases, assessing total compensatory damages
totalling 26 million US dollars. HLR has appealed in one case to the Superior Court of New Jersey, Appellate
Division and is reviewing its post-trial option in the other cases.
In October 2007 a jury in the Circuit Court of Escambia County, Florida, returned a verdict in favour of the
plaintiff, assessing total compensatory damages of 7 million US dollars, subsequently reduced to 6.8 million
US dollars by the court, against the Company. HLR has appealed to the District Court of Appeal, State
ofFlorida.
As of 31 December 2008 the Group has recorded provisions totalling 96 million US dollars (102 million Swiss
francs) in respect of these matters. Additional trials are scheduled for 2009. Individual trial results depend
ona variety of factors, including many that are unique to the particular case and therefore the trial results
todate may not be predictive of future trial results. The Group continues to defend vigorously the remaining
personal injury cases and claims.
Genentech legal cases
On 10 June 2002 Genentech announced that a Los Angeles County Superior Court jury voted to award the
City of Hope National Medical Center (‘City of Hope’) approximately 300 million US dollars in compensatory
damages based on a finding of a breach of a 1976 agreement between Genentech and the City of Hope.
On24 June 2002 the jury voted to award the City of Hope 200 million US dollars in punitive damages in the
same case. On 13 September 2002 Genentech filed a notice of appeal of the jury verdict and damages awards
with the California Court of Appeal. On 21 October 2004 the Court of Appeal affirmed the verdict and
damages awards in all respects. Also, on 21 October 2004 Genentech announced that it would seek review
by the California Supreme Court, which has discretion over which cases it will review. On 24 November 2004
Genentech filed its petition for review by the California Supreme Court and on 2 February 2005 the California
Supreme Court granted this petition. The appeal to the California Supreme Court was heard on 5 February
2008 and on 24 April 2008 overturned the award of 200 million US dollars in punitive damages to the City of
Hope, but upheld the award of 300 million US dollars in compensatory damages. On 9 May 2008 Genentech
paid 476 million US dollars to the City of Hope, reflecting the amount of compensatory damages awarded,
plus interest thereon from the date of the original decision on 10 June 2002.
During the appeals process interest had accrued on the total amount of the damages at a simple annual rate
of 10%. During 2008 interest of 11 million Swiss francs (2007: 60 million Swiss francs) was recorded as the
time cost of provisions within financing costs.
www.global-reports.com94
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
A full provision, totalling 776 million US dollars as at 31 December 2007, had been recorded for these awards.
As a result of the 24 April 2008 California Supreme Court decision, provisions totalling 310 million US dollars
were released to income as a favourable litigation settlement, of which 200 million US dollars relates to the
original award recorded in 2002 as an exceptional major legal case expense and 110 million US dollars relates
to interest accrued as a charge to financing costs in the intervening periods.
On 3 October 2002 Genentech entered into an arrangement with third-party insurance companies to post a
surety bond in connection with this judgment. As part of this arrangement Genentech had pledged 788 million
US dollars in cash and investments to secure this bond. This amount, which was equivalent to 889 million
Swiss francs at 31 December 2007, was recorded as restricted cash within other current assets in the Annual
Financial Statements. During the third quarter of 2008 the court completed certain administrative procedures
to dismiss the case. As a result the restrictions were lifted from the restricted cash and investments and the
funds became available for use in Genentech’s operations.
Genentech and City of Hope are in discussions but have not yet reached agreement regarding additional
royalties and other amounts that Genentech owes to City of Hope under the 1976 agreement for third-party
product sales and settlement of a third-party patent litigation that occurred after the 2002 judgement.
Additional accruals have been made representing management’s best estimate of the final obligation.
On 4 October 2004 Genentech received a subpoena from the United States Department of Justice, requesting
documents related to the promotion of Rituxan. Genentech is co-operating with the associated investigation.
Through counsel Genentech are having discussions with government representatives about the status of their
investigation and Genentech’s views on this matter, including potential resolution. Previously the investigation
had been both civil and criminal in nature. Genentech was informed in August 2008 by the criminal prose-
cutor who handled this matter that the government has declined to prosecute Genentech criminally in
connection with this investigation. The civil matter is still ongoing. The outcome of this matter cannot be
determined at this time.
On 11 April 2003 MedImmune, Inc. (‘MedImmune’) filed a lawsuit against Genentech, the City of Hope
National Medical Center, and Celltech R&D Ltd., in the US District Court for the Central District of California,
Los Angeles. The lawsuit relates to US Patent No. 6,331,415 (‘the Cabilly patent’) that is co-owned by
Genentech and the City of Hope National Medical Center and under which MedImmune and other companies
have been licensed and are paying royalties. The lawsuit included claims for violation of antitrust, patent and
unfair competition laws. On 11 June 2008 Genentech announced that it had settled its patent litigation
withMedImmune. Under the terms of the settlement agreement the litigation which was pending before the
US District Court for the Central District of California has now been fully resolved and dismissed.
On 13 May 2005 a request was filed by a third party for re-examination of the Cabilly patent. On 7July 2005
the US Patent and Trademark Office ordered a re-examination of this patent. On 13 September 2005 the
Patent Office issued an initial non-final Office action rejecting the claims of the patent. Genentech filed a
response on 25November 2005. A second re-examination request for this same patent was filed on
23December 2005 by another third party and on 23 January 2006 the Patent Office granted that re-
examination request. On 6June 2006 the two re-examinations were combined by the Patent Office into a
single re-examination. On 16 August 2006 the Patent Office issued a non-final Office action in the merged
proceeding, rejecting the claims of the Cabilly patent based on the issues raised in the two re-examination
requests. Genentech filed its response on 30 October 2006. On 16 February 2007 the Patent Office mailed a
final Office action rejecting all thirty six claims of the Cabilly patent. On 21 May 2007 Genentech responded
tothe final Office action and petitioned for continued re-examination. On 31 May 2007 the Patent Office
granted Genentech’s petition, withdrew the finality of the February 2007 Office action and agreed to treat
Genentech’s 21May 2007 filing as a response to a first Office action. On 25 February 2008 the Patent Office
mailed a final Patent Office action rejecting all the claims of the Cabilly patent. Genentech filed a response
tothat final Patent Office action on 6 June 2008. On 19 July 2008 the Patent Office mailed an advisory action
replying to Genentech’s response and confirming the rejection of all claims of the Cabilly patent. Genentech
filed a notice of appeal challenging the rejection on 22 August 2008. Genentech’s opening appeal brief was
on 9December 2008. The Cabilly patent, which expires in 2018, relates to methods used by Genentech and95
others to make certain antibodies or antibody fragments, as well as cells and DNA used in these methods.
Genentech has licensed the Cabilly patent to other companies and derives significant royalties from these
licences. The claims of the Cabilly patent remain valid and enforceable throughout the re-examination and
appeals processes. No provisions have been recorded in respect of this litigation as the outcome of this mat-
ter cannot be determined at this time. During the fourth quarter of 2008 the process of recognising revenue
from the Cabilly patents was changed from an estimated accruals basis to a cash basis. As a result of this
change, net royalties decreased by approximately 66million US dollars, equivalent to 71million Swiss francs,
in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the third quarter. The Cabilly patent licences contributed operating
profit of 156 million US dollars in 2008, equivalent to 169 million Swiss francs (2007: 133million US dollars,
equivalent to 160million Swiss francs).
On 30 May 2008 Centocor, Inc. filed a patent lawsuit against Genentech and City of Hope in the US District
Court for the Central District of California. The lawsuit relates to the Cabilly patent and seeks a declara-
tory judgment of patent invalidity and unenforceability with regard to the Cabilly patent and of patent non-
infringement with regard to certain of Centocor’s products. Centocor filed an amended complaint on
3September 2008. Genentech answered the complaint on 19 September 2008 and also filed counterclaims
against Centocor alleging that four Centocor products infringe certain Genentech patents. Genentech
filedanamendment to those counterclaims on 10 October 2008 and Centocor answered these counterclaims
on 26November 2008. A status conference has been set in the case for 9February 2009. The outcome of
thismatter cannot be determined at this time.
In 2006 Genentech made development decisions involving its humanised anti-CD20 programme, and its
collaborator, Biogen Idec Inc., disagreed with certain of Genentech’s development decisions related to
humanised anti-CD20 products. Under Genentech’s 2003 collaboration agreement with Biogen Idec,
Genentech believe that it is permitted to proceed with further trials of certain humanised anti-CD20 anti-
bodies, but Biogen Idec disagreed with Genentech’s position. The disputed issues have been submitted to
arbitration. In the arbitration, Biogen Idec filed motions for a preliminary injunction and summary judgment
seeking to stop Genentech from proceeding with certain development activities, including planned clinical
trials. On 20April 2007, the arbitration panel denied Biogen Idec’s motion for a preliminary injunction and
Biogen Idec’s motion for summary judgment. Resolution of the arbitration could require that both parties
agree to certain development decisions before moving forward with humanised anti-CD20 antibody clinical
trials (and possibly clinical trials of other collaboration products, including Rituxan), in which case Genentech
may have to alter or cancel planned clinical trials in order to obtain Biogen Idec’s approval. Each party is also
seeking monetary damages from the other. The arbitrators held hearings on this matter over several days in
September 2008 and closing arguments on 9 December 2008. The hearings formally closed on 8January
2009. A final decision from the arbitrators is expected by no later than July 2009. The outcome of this matter
cannot be determined at this time.
On 28 June 2003 Mr Ubaldo Bao Martinez filed a lawsuit against Porriño Town Council and Genentech
España S.L. in the Contentious Administrative Court Number One of Pontevedra, Spain. The lawsuit
challenges the Town Council’s decision to grant licenses to Genentech España S.L. for the construction and
operation of a warehouse and biopharmaceutical manufacturing facility in Porriño, Spain. On 21 January 2008
the Administrative Court ruled in favour of Mr Bao on one of the claims in the lawsuit and ordered the closing
and demolition of the facility, subject to certain further legal proceedings. On 12 February 2008, Genentech
and the Town Council filed appeals of the Administrative Court decision at the High Court in Galicia, Spain. In
addition, Genentech are evaluating with legal counsel in Spain whether there may be other administrative
remedies available to overcome the Administrative Court’s ruling. Genentech sold the assets of Genentech
España S.L., including the Porriño facility, to Lonza Group Ltd. (‘Lonza’) in December 2006, and Lonza has
operated the facility since that time. Under the terms of that sale, Genentech retained control of the defence
of this lawsuit and agreed to indemnify Lonza against certain contractually defined liabilities up to a specified
limit, which is currently estimated to be approximately 100 million US dollars. No provisions have been
recorded in respect of this litigation as the outcome of this matter and Genentech’s indemnification obligation
to Lonza, if any, cannot be determined at this time.
www.global-reports.com96
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
On 8 May, 11 June, 8 August, and 29 September of 2008, Genentech was named as a defendant, along with
InterMune, Inc. and its former chief executive officer, W. Scott Harkonen, in four separate class-action
complaints filed in the US District Court for the Northern District of California on behalf of plaintiffs who
allegedly paid part or all of the purchase price for a product that was licensed by Genentech to Connectics
Corporation and was subsequently assigned to InterMune. The complaints are related in part to royalties that
Genentech received. The 8 May, 11 June, 8 August complaints have been consolidated into a single amended
complaint that claims and seeks damages for violations of federal racketeering laws, unfair competition laws,
and consumer protection laws, and for unjust enrichment. The 29 September complaint includes six claims,
but only names Genentech as a defendant in one claim for damages for unjust enrichment. This matter was
formally related to the consolidated complaint on 10 December 2008. Genentech’s motion to dismiss these
matters is currently scheduled for hearing on 2 February 2009. The outcome of these matters cannot be
determined at this time.
Subsequent to the Roche Proposal, more than thirty shareholder lawsuits have been filed against Genentech
and/or the members of its Board of Directors, and various Roche entities including Roche Holdings, Inc.
(RHI) and Roche Holding Ltd. (Roche Holding AG). The lawsuits are currently pending in various state courts,
including the Delaware Court of Chancery and San Mateo County Superior Court, as well as in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of California. The lawsuits generally assert class-action claims
for breach of fiduciary duty and aiding and abetting breaches of fiduciary duty based in part on allegations
that, in connection with Roche’s offer to purchase the remaining shares, some or all of the defendants have
failed to properly value Genentech, have failed to solicit other potential acquirers and are engaged in
improper self-dealing. Several of the suits also seek the invalidation, in whole or in part, of the July 1999
Affiliation Agreement between Genentech and RHI (Affiliation Agreement), and an order deeming Articles 8
and 9 of Genentech’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation inapplicable or invalid to a potential
transaction with Roche. The outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.
On 27 October 2008 Genentech and Biogen Idec Inc. filed a complaint against Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland
GmbH (‘Sanofi’), Sanofi-Aventis US LLC and Sanofi-Aventis US Inc. in the Northern District of California
seeking a declaratory judgement that certain Genentech products, including Rituxan, do not infringe Sanofi’s
US Patents 5,849,522 (‘the ‘522 patent’) and 6,218,140 (‘the ‘140 patent’) and a declaratory judgement that
the ‘522 and ‘140 patents are invalid. On 2 December 2008 Sanofi filed a motion to dismiss this complaint for
lack of jurisdiction. A discovery hearing relating to this motion is currently set for 13February 2009. Also on
27October 2008 Sanofi filed suit against Genentech and Biogen Idec in the Eastern District of Texas, Lufkin
Division, claiming that Rituxan and at least eight other Genentech products infringe the ‘522 and ‘140 patents.
On 22January 2009 Genentech filed a motion to transfer this matter to the Northern District of California.
Sanofi is seeking preliminary and permanent injunctions, compensatory and exemplary damages, and other
relief. In addition on 24 October 2008 Hoechst GmbH filed with the ICC International Court of Arbitration
(Paris) a request for arbitration with Genentech, relating to a terminated agreement between Hoechst’s pre-
decessors and Genentech that pertained to the above patents and related patents outside the United States.
Genentech’s answer to the arbitration request was filed on 19 January 2009. Hoechst is seeking pay-
ments on royalties on sales of Genentech products, damages for breach of contract, and other relief.
Genentech intends to vigorously defend itself. The outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this
time.
Genentech’s annual report and quarterly SEC filings contain the detailed disclosures of litigation matters that
are required by US GAAP. These include further details on the above matters as well as including information
on other litigation that is not currently as significant as the matters referred to above.97
26. Other non-current liabilities
Other non-current liabilities | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Deferred income 174 243
Other long-term liabilities 285 480
Total other non-current liabilities 459 723
27. Debt
Debt: recognised liabilities | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Debt instruments 3,564 6,294
Amounts due to banks and other financial institutions 77 130
Genentech leasing obligations3 337 305
Finance lease obligations12 4 9
Other borrowings 107 128
Total debt 4,089 6,866
Reported as
— Long-term debt 2,972 3,834
— Short-term debt 1,117 3,032
Total debt 4,089 6,866
Debt: repayment terms | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Within one year 1,117 3,032
Between one and two years 565 584
Between two and three years 6 576
Between three and four years 4 25
Between four and five years 3 3
More than five years 2,394 2,646
Total debt 4,089 6,866
The fair value of the debt instruments is 3.5 billion Swiss francs (2007: 6.2 billion Swiss francs) and the fair
value of total debt is 4.0 billion Swiss francs (2007: 6.8 billion Swiss francs). This is calculated based on
theobservable market prices of the debt instruments or the present value of the future cash flows on the
instrument, discounted at a market rate of interest for instruments with similar credit status, cash flows
andmaturity periods.
There are no pledges on the Group’s assets in connection with debt.
Amounts due to banks and other financial institutions
These amounts are denominated in various currencies, notably in Chinese renminbi, and the average interest
rate was 4.5%. The average interest rate in 2007 was 5.8%, when the balance was primarily denominated
ineuros. Repayment dates are up to five years and 61 million Swiss francs (2007: 105 million Swiss francs)
are due within one year.
www.global-reports.com98
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Debt instruments
Recognised liabilities and effective interest rates of debt instruments | in millions of CHF
Effective
interest rate 2008 2007
European Medium Term Note programme
4% bonds due 9 October 2008, principal 750 million euros 4.16% – 1,240
5.375% bonds due 29 August 2023, principal 250 million pounds sterling 5.46% 377 553
Swiss franc bonds
‘Rodeo’ 1.75% due 20 March 2008, principal 1 billion Swiss francs 3.00% – 998
US dollar bonds
‘Chameleon’ 6.75% due 6 July 2009, principal 487 million US dollars 6.77% 522 568
Genentech Senior Notes
4.40% Senior Notes due 15 July 2010, principal 500 million US dollars 4.53% 549 569
4.75% Senior Notes due 15 July 2015, principal 1 billion US dollars 4.87% 1,058 1,127
5.25% Senior Notes due 15 July 2035, principal 500 million US dollars 5.39% 529 564
Genentech commercial paper
Notes due at various dates until 23 January 2009,
principal 500 million US dollars (2007: principal 600 million US dollars 0.80%
due until 22 January 2008) (2007: 4.46%) 529 675
Japanese yen convertible bonds issued by Chugai
‘Series 6 Chugai Pharmaceutical Unsecured Convertible Bonds’ 1.05%
due 30 September 2008 (2007: outstanding principal amount 42 million
Japanese yen) 1.05% – –
Total debt instruments 3,564 6,294
Unamortised discount included in carrying value of debt instruments | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Sterling bonds 5 8
Total unamortised discount 5 8
Fair Value Option
In 2005 the Group applied the Fair Value Option on three of its outstanding debt instruments on which the
Group had been applying fair value hedge accounting in the past. These debt instruments are the ‘European
Medium Term Note programme’ Euro bonds, the ‘Chameleon’ US dollar bonds and the ‘Rodeo’ Swiss franc
bonds. The Fair Value Option treatment is based on the elimination of an accounting mismatch which had
been recognised between the hedging swaps (reported at fair value) and the hedged bonds (reported
atamortised cost). The difference between the carrying value and the principal amount for these debt
instruments totals 6 million Swiss francs (2007: 12 million Swiss francs).
Issuance of new debt instruments — 2007
Genentech commercial paper program | In October 2007 Genentech established a commercial paper pro-
gram under which it can issue up to 1 billion US dollars of unsecured commercial paper notes. Maturities
under the program generally vary from overnight to five weeks and cannot exceed 397 days. Asat
31December 2008 unsecured commercial paper notes with a principal amount of 500 million US dollars
(2007: 600 million US dollars) and an average interest rate of 0.80% (2007: 4.46%) were outstanding.
Genentech intends to use the proceeds for general corporate purposes.99
Repayments, redemptions and conversions of debt instruments — 2008
Redemption of ‘Rodeo’ Swiss franc bonds | On the due date of 20 March 2008 the Group redeemed
thesebonds at the original issue amount plus accrued original issue discount (‘OID’). The effective interest
rate of these bonds was 3.00%. The cash outflow was 1,000 million Swiss francs and there was no gain
orloss recorded on the redemption.
Redemption of European Medium Term Note programme Euro bonds | On the due date of 9 October
2008 the Group redeemed at the original issue amount plus accrued original issue discount (‘OID’).
Theeffective interest rate of these bonds was 4.16%. The cash outflow was 1,188 million Swiss francs and
therewas no gain or loss recorded on the redemption.
Conversion and redemption of ‘Series 6 Chugai Pharmaceutical Unsecured Convertible Bonds’ |
During2008 the remaining outstanding bonds with a face value of 42 million Japanese yen (0.4 million
Swissfrancs) were either converted to shares of Chugai or redeemed at the issue price on the due date of
30September 2008. The Group’s percentage ownership of Chugai was unaffected by this conversion,
astheGroup had bonds convertible into Chugai shares that mirrored those that Chugai had outstanding
withthird parties. There was no gain or loss recorded in the income statement upon the conversion
andredemption. The cash outflow was less than 1 million Swiss francs.
Repayments, redemptions and conversions of debt instruments — 2007
Conversion and redemption of ‘LYONs V’ US dollar exchangeable notes | On 22 June 2007 the Group
announced that it would exercise its option to call these notes for redemption on 25 July 2007 at the
originalissue amount plus accrued original issue discount (‘OID’). In the period to 24 July 2007 notes with
aprincipal amount of 848 million US dollars were converted into 4.5 million non-voting equity securities
andthe remaining notes were redeemed for cash on 25 July 2007. A total of 324 million Swiss francs were
recorded to equity, which consists of the 1,008 million Swiss francs of cash used to purchase the non-voting
equity securities used in the conversion and redemption, less the 622 million Swiss francs carrying value
ofthe converted bonds and the related tax effects of 62 million Swiss francs. There was no gain or loss
recorded in the income statement upon the conversion and redemption.
Redemption of European Medium Term Note programme US dollar bonds | On the due date of
2 October 2007 the Group redeemed these bonds with a principal value of 750 million US dollars at the
original issue amount plus accrued original issue discount (‘OID’). The cash outflow was 900 million
Swissfrancs. There was no gain or loss recorded in the income statement upon the redemption.
Partial conversion of ‘Series 6 Chugai Pharmaceutical Unsecured Convertible Bonds’ | During 2007
bonds with a face value of 0.1 billion Japanese yen (1 million Swiss francs) were converted to shares
ofChugai. The Group’s percentage ownership of Chugai was unaffected by this conversion, as the Group
hasbonds convertible into Chugai shares that mirror those that Chugai has outstanding with third parties.
There was no gain or loss recorded in the income statement upon the partial conversion.
Cash outflows from repayments, redemptions and conversions of debt instruments | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
‘LYONs V’ US dollar exchangeable notes – (1,008)
European Medium Term Note programme US dollar bonds – (900)
‘Rodeo’ Swiss franc bonds (1,000) –
European Medium Term Note programme Euro bonds (1,188) –
Genentech commercial paper (net repayment) (107)
Japanese yen convertible bonds issued by Chugai – –
Total cash outflows from repayments and redemptions during the year (2,295) (1,908)
www.global-reports.com100
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
28. Equity attributable to Roche shareholders
Changes in equity attributable to Roche shareholders | in millions of CHF
Share Own equity Retained Fair value Hedging Translation
Year ended 31 December 2007 capital instruments earnings reserve reserve reserve Total
At 1 January 2007 — restated1 160 (2,102) 44,548 459 15 (3,339) 39,741
Available-for-sale investments
— Valuation gains (losses)
taken to equity – – – (198) – – (198)
— Transferred to income statement
on sale or impairment – – – (128) – – (128)
Cash flow hedges
— Gains (losses) taken to equity – – – – (45) – (45)
— Transferred to income statementa) – – – – (3) – (3)
— Transferred to the initial balance
sheet carrying value of hedged
items – – – – – – –
Exchange differences on
translation of foreign operations – – – (10) 1 (1,897) (1,906)
Defined benefit plans
— Actuarial gains (losses)10 – – 1,178 – – – 1,178
— Limit on asset recognition10 – – (636) – – – (636)
Income taxes on items taken
directly to or transferred from equity – – (242) 9 19 – (214)
Non-controlling interests – – (3) (7) 13 529 532
Net income recognised directly
in equity – – 297 (334) (15) (1,368) (1,420)
Net income recognised
in income statement – – 9,761 – – – 9,761
Total recognised income
and expense – – 10,058 (334) (15) (1,368) 8,341
Dividends paid – – (2,930) – – – (2,930)
Transactions in own equity
instruments – 1,085 – – – – 1,085
Equity compensation plans – – 559 – – – 559
Genentech and Chugai share
repurchases3,4 – – (1,044) – – – (1,044)
Convertible debt instruments27 – – (324) – – – (324)
Changes in non-controlling
interests – – 55 – – – 55
At 31 December 2007 160 (1,017) 50,922 125 – (4,707) 45,483
a) Of amounts transferred to income statement, losses of 10 million Swiss francs were reported as ‘Royalties and other operating income’
and gains of 7 million Swiss francs as ‘Financial income’.
As disclosed in Note 1, post-employment benefit assets, deferred tax liabilities and equity have been restated in the 31 December 2007
balance sheet following the adoption of IFRIC interpretation 14 in 2008. A reconciliation to the previously published balance sheet is
provided in Note 1.101
Own
equity
Share instru- Retained Fair value Hedging Translation
Year ended 31 December 2008 capital ments earnings reserve reserve reserve Total
At 1 January 2008 160 (1,017) 50,922 125 – (4,707) 45,483
Available-for-sale investments
— Valuation gains (losses)
taken to equity – – – (671) – – (671)
— Transferred to income statement
on sale or impairment – – – 163 – – 163
Cash flow hedges
— Gains (losses) taken to equity – – – – (55) – (55)
— Transferred to income statementa) – – – – 83 – 83
— Transferred to the initial balance
sheet carrying value of hedged
items – – – – – – –
Currency translation of foreign
operations
— Exchange differences – – – 16 – (2,998) (2,982)
— Accumulated differences
transferred to income
statement on divestment34 – – – – – (16) (16)
Defined benefit plans
— Actuarial gains (losses)10 – – (2,820) – – – (2,820)
— Limit on asset recognition10 – – 636 – – – 636
Income taxes on items taken
directly to or transferred from equity – – 662 88 (12) – 738
Non-controlling interests – – 18 48 (7) 181 240
Net income recognised directly
in equity – – (1,504) (356) 9 (2,833) (4,684)
Net income recognised
in income statement – – 8,969 – – – 8,969
Total recognised income
and expense – – 7,465 (356) 9 (2,833) 4,285
Dividends paid – – (3,969) – – – (3,969)
Transactions in own equity
instruments – (98) – – – – (98)
Equity compensation plans – – 789 – – – 789
Genentech and Chugai share
repurchases3,4 – – (472) – – – (472)
Changes in ownership interests
in subsidiaries
— Chugai4 – – (530) – – – (530)
— Ventana7 – – (964) – – – (964)
Changes in non-controlling
interests – – (45) – – – (45)
At 31 December 2008 160 (1,115) 53,196 (231) 9 (7,540) 44,479
a) Of amounts transferred to income statement, losses of 86 million Swiss francs were reported as ‘Royalties and other operating income’
and gains of 3 million Swiss francs as ‘Financial income’.
www.global-reports.com102
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Share capital
As of 31 December 2008, the authorised and issued share capital of Roche Holding Ltd, which is the Group’s
parent company, consisted of 160,000,000 shares with a nominal value of 1.00 Swiss franc each, as in the
preceding year. The shares are bearer shares and the Group does not maintain a register of shareholders.
Based on information supplied to the Group, a shareholder group with pooled voting rights owns 50.0125%
(2007: 50.0125%) of the issued shares. This is further described in Note 33. Based on information supplied to
the Group, Novartis Ltd, Basel, and its affiliates owns 33.3330% (participation below 331/%) of the issued
3
shares (2007: 33.3330%).
Non-voting equity securities (Genussscheine)
As of 31 December 2008, 702,562,700 non-voting equity securities have been authorised and were in issue
as in the preceding year. Under Swiss company law these non-voting equity securities have no nominal value,
are not part of the share capital and cannot be issued against a contribution which would be shown as an
asset in the balance sheet of Roche Holding Ltd. Each non-voting equity security confers the same rights as
any of the shares to participate in the net profit and any remaining proceeds from liquidation following repay-
ment of the nominal value of the shares and, if any, participation certificates. In accordance with the law
andthe Articles of Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd, the Company is entitled at all times to exchange all
orsome of the non-voting equity securities into shares or participation certificates.
Dividends
On 4 March 2008 the shareholders approved the distribution of a dividend of 4.60 Swiss francs per share and
non-voting equity securities (2007: 3.40 Swiss francs) in respect of the 2007 business year. The distribution
to holders of outstanding shares and non-voting equity securities totalled 3,969 million Swiss francs (2007:
2,930 million Swiss francs) and has been recorded against retained earnings in 2008. The Board of Directors
has proposed dividends for the 2008 business year of 5.00 Swiss francs per share and non-voting equity
security. This is subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 10 March 2009.
Own equity instruments
Holdings of own equity instruments | in equivalent number of non-voting equity securities
31 December 2008 31 December 2007
(millions) (millions)
Non-voting equity securities 3.0 0.4
Low Exercise Price Options – 1.9
Derivative instruments 8.5 9.3
Total own equity instruments 11.5 11.6
Own equity instruments are recorded within equity at original purchase cost. Details of own equity
instruments held at 31 December 2008 are shown in the table below. Fair values are disclosed for information
purposes.
Own equity instruments at 31 December 2008: supplementary information
Equivalent number
of non-voting
equity securities Strike price Market value
(millions) Maturity (CHF) (CHF millions)
Non-voting equity securities 3.0 n/a n/a 481
Low Exercise Price Options – – – –
Derivative instruments 8.5 2 Feb. 2010— 123.00—
8 Feb. 2014 229.60 310
Total 11.5 791103
Non-voting equity securities and derivative instruments are held for the Group’s potential conversion
obligations that may arise from the Roche Option Plan and Roche Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights
(see Note 11). These mainly consist of call options that are exercisable at any time up to their maturity.
The net cash outflow from transactions in own equity instruments was 98 million Swiss francs (2007: net
cashinflow of 1,085 million Swiss francs). The large cash inflow in 2007 mainly arose from a reduction in own
equity instrument holdings following the conversion and redemption of the ‘LYONs V’ notes.
The Group holds none of its own shares.
Reserves
Fair value reserve | The fair value reserve represents the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-
for-sale financial assets until the asset is sold, impaired or otherwise disposed of.
Hedging reserve | The hedging reserve represents the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the
fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Translation reserve | The translation reserve represents the cumulative currency translation differences
relating to the consolidation of Group companies that use functional currencies other than Swiss francs.
29. Earnings per share and non-voting equity security
Basic earnings per share and non-voting equity security
For the calculation of basic earnings per share and non-voting equity security, the number of shares and non-
voting equity securities is reduced by the weighted average number of its own non-voting equity securities
held by the Group during the period.
Basic earnings per share and non-voting equity security
Group
2008 2007
Net income attributable to Roche shareholders
(CHF millions) 8,969 9,761
Number of shares (millions)28 160 160
Number of non-voting equity securities (millions)28 703 703
Weighted average number of own non-voting equity
securities held (millions) (3) (4)
Weighted average number of shares and
non-voting equity securities in issue (millions) 860 859
Basic earnings per share and non-voting equity
security (CHF) 10.43 11.36
Diluted earnings per share and non-voting equity security
For the calculation of diluted earnings per share and non-voting equity security, the net income and weighted
average number of shares and non-voting equity securities outstanding are adjusted for the effects of all
dilutive potential shares and non-voting equity securities.
www.global-reports.com104
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Potential dilutive effects arise from the convertible debt instruments and the employee stock option plans.
Ifthe outstanding convertible debt instruments were to be converted then this would lead to a reduction in
interest expense and an increase in the number of shares which may have a net dilutive effect on the earnings
per share. The exercise of outstanding vested employee stock options would have a dilutive effect. The exer-
cise of the outstanding vested Genentech employee stock options would have a dilutive effect if the net
income of Genentech is positive. The diluted earnings per share and non-voting equity security reflects the
potential impacts of these dilutive effects on the earnings per share figures.
Diluted earnings per share and non-voting equity security
Group
2008 2007
Net income attributable to Roche shareholders
(CHF millions) 8,969 9,761
Elimination of interest expense, net of tax,
of convertible debt instruments,
where dilutive (CHF millions) – 4
Increase in non-controlling share of Group net income,
net of tax, assuming all outstanding Genentech
and Chugai stock options exercised (CHF millions) (159) (141)
Net income used to calculate diluted earnings
per share (CHF millions) 8,810 9,624
Weighted average number of shares and non-voting
equity securities in issue (millions) 860 859
Adjustment for assumed conversion of convertible
debt instruments, where dilutive (millions) – 1
Adjustment for assumed exercise of equity
compensation plans, where dilutive (millions) 1 2
Weighted average number of shares and
non-voting equity securities in issue used
to calculate diluted earnings per share (millions) 861 862
Diluted earnings per share and non-voting
equity security (CHF) 10.23 11.16105
30. Non-controlling interests
Changes in equity attributable to non-controlling interests | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
At 1 January 7,960 7,370
Net income recognised directly in equity (240) (532)
Net income recognised in income statement
— Genentech3 1,659 1,451
— Chugai4 200 211
— Other non-controlling interests 16 14
Total net income recognised in income statement 1,875 1,676
Total recognised income and expense 1,635 1,144
Ventana acquisition7 321 –
Dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders
— Chugai4 (74) (91)
— Other non-controlling interests (21) (6)
Equity compensation plans 574 449
Genentech and Chugai share repurchases3,4 (372) (851)
Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries
— Chugai4 (404) –
— Ventana7 (321) –
Changes in non-controlling interests 45 (55)
At 31 December 9,343 7,960
Of which
— Genentech3 7,397 5,933
— Chugai4 1,901 1,987
— Other non-controlling interests 45 40
Total non-controlling interests 9,343 7,960
31. Cash flow statement
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash flows from operating activities arise from the Group’s primary activities in the Pharmaceuticals and
Diagnostics businesses. These are calculated by the indirect method by adjusting the Group’s operating profit
for any operating income and expenses that are not cash flows (for example depreciation, amortisation
andimpairment) in order to derive the cash generated from operations. This and other operating cash flows
are shown in the cash flow statement. Operating cash flows also include income taxes paid on all activities.
www.global-reports.com106
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Cash generated from operations | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Net income 10,844 11,437
Add back non-operating (income) expense
— Associates15 (1) (2)
— Financial income5 (1,123) (1,805)
— Financing costs5 887 971
— Income taxes6 3,317 3,867
— Major legal cases25 (271) –
— Changes in Group organisation8 243 –
Operating profit before exceptional items 13,896 14,468
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment12 1,676 1,560
Amortisation of intangible assets14 969 976
Impairment of intangible assets14 104 58
Impairment of property, plant and equipment12 28 6
Operating expenses for defined benefit post-employment plans10 317 370
Operating expenses for equity-settled equity compensation plans11 526 603
Other adjustments 110 439
Cash generated from operations 17,626 18,480
Cash flows from investing activities
Cash flows from investing activities are principally those arising from the Group’s investments in property,
plant and equipment and intangible assets, and from the acquisition and divestment of subsidiaries,
associates and businesses. Cash flows connected with the Group’s portfolio of marketable securities and
other investments are also included, as are any interest and dividend payments received in respect of these
securities and investments. These cash flows indicate the Group’s net reinvestment in its operating assets
andthe cash flow effects of business combinations and divestments, as well as the cash generated by
theGroup’s other investments.
Interest and dividends received | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Interest received 606 1,071
Dividends received 5 8
Total 611 1,079
Cash flows from financing activities
Cash flows from financing activities are primarily the proceeds from the issue and repayment of the
Group’sequity and debt instruments. They also include interest payments and dividend payments on these
instruments. Cash flows from short-term financing, including finance leases, are also included. These cash
flows indicate the Group’s transactions with the providers of its equity and debt financing. Cash flows
fromshort-term borrowings are shown as a net movement, as these consist of a large number of trans-
actions with short maturity.
Interest and dividends paid | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Interest paid (216) (297)
Dividends paid28,30 (4,051) (3,027)
Total (4,267) (3,324)107
Significant non-cash transactions
An increase in property, plant and equipment of 102 million Swiss francs (2007: 205 million Swiss francs)
wasrecorded from Genentech leasing arrangements (see Note 3) and there was a corresponding increase
inlong-term debt.
32. Risk management
Group risk management
Risk management is a fundamental element of the Group’s business practice on all levels and encompasses
different types of risks. At a group level risk management is an integral part of the business planning and
controlling processes. Material risks are monitored and regularly discussed with the Corporate Executive
Committee and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. This overall Group risk management process
includes the performance of a risk assessment that is described in more detail in the Business Report
onpage89. Financial risk management specifically is described in further detail below.
Financial risk management
The Group is exposed to various financial risks arising from its underlying operations and corporate
financeactivities. The Group’s financial risk exposures are predominantly related to changes in foreign
exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices as well as the creditworthiness and the solvency
oftheGroup’s counterparties.
Financial risk management within the Group is governed by policies reviewed by the boards of directors
ofRoche, Genentech or Chugai as appropriate to their areas of statutory responsibility. These policies cover
credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk. The policies provide guidance on risk limits, type of authorised
financial instruments and monitoring procedures. As a general principle, the policies prohibit the use
ofderivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. Policy implementation and day-to-day
riskmanagement are carried out by the relevant treasury functions and regular reporting on these risks is
performed by the relevant accounting and controlling functions within Roche, Genentech and Chugai.
Carrying value and fair value of financial assets | in millions of CHF
Carrying value by asset class
FVtPLa)-
Available- FVtPLa)- held for Held to Loans and Fair
By line items in notes for-sale Designated trading maturity receivables Total value
Year ended 31 December 2008
Accounts receivable – – – – 9,755 9,755 9,755
Accrued interest income – – – – 145 145 145
Marketable securities:
— Money market instruments and
time accounts over 3 months 7,961 – – – – 7,961 7,961
— Bonds and debentures 6,814 – 1,027 – – 7,841 7,841
— Shares 51 – – – – 51 51
— Other investments 3 – – – – 3 3
Cash and cash equivalents – – – – 4,915 4,915 4,915
Derivative financial instruments – – 262 – – 262 262
Available-for-sale investments 588 – – – – 588 588
Held-to-maturity investments – – – 16 – 16 16
Loans receivable – – – – 16 16 16
Long-term trade receivables – – – – 73 73 73
Other financial current assets – – – – 624 624 624
Restricted cash – – – – 205 205 205
Other long-term assets – – – – 42 42 42
Total 15,417 – 1,289 16 15,775 32,497 32,497
www.global-reports.com108
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Carrying value by asset class
FVtPLa)-
Available- FVtPLa)- held for Held to Loans and Fair
By line items in notes for-sale Designated trading maturity receivables Total value
Year ended 31 December 2007
Accounts receivable – – – – 9,804 9,804 9,804
Accrued interest income – – – – 37 37 37
Marketable securities:
— Money market instruments and
time accounts over 3 months 10,965 167 – – – 11,132 11,132
— Bonds and debentures 7,624 78 1,129 – – 8,831 8,831
— Shares 292 – – – – 292 292
— Other investments 14 178 – – – 192 192
Cash and cash equivalents – – – – 3,755 3,755 3,755
Derivative financial instruments – – 70 – – 70 70
Available-for-sale investments 836 – – – – 836 836
Held-to-maturity investments – – – 19 – 19 19
Loans receivable – – – – 19 19 19
Long-term trade receivables – – – – 190 190 190
Other financial current assets – – – – 593 593 593
Restricted cash – – – – 1,115 1,115 1,115
Other long-term assets – – – – 43 43 43
Total 19,731 423 1,199 19 15,556 36,928 36,928
a) Fair-value-through-profit-or-loss.
Credit risk
Credit risk arises from the possibility that counterparties to transactions may default on their obligations,
causing financial losses for the Group. The objective of managing counterparty credit risk is to prevent losses
of liquid funds deposited with or invested in such counterparties.
The maximum exposure to credit risk resulting from financial activities, without considering netting
agreements and without taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements, is equal to the
carrying value of the Group’s financial assets.
Trade receivables | These are subject to a policy of active credit risk management which focuses on the
assessment of country risk, credit availability, ongoing credit evaluation and account monitoring procedures.
The objective of the management of trade receivables is to sustain the growth and profitability of the Group
byoptimising asset utilisation whilst maintaining risks at an acceptable level. Except as noted below, there is
no significant concentration of counterparty credit risk due to the Group’s large number of customers and
their wide geographical spread. Risk limits and exposures are continuously monitored by country and by the
nature of counterparties. Additionally, the Group obtains credit insurance and similar enhancements when
appropriate to protect the collection of trade receivables. As at 31 December 2008 no collateral was held
forloans and receivables (2007: none).
At 31 December 2008 the Group’s combined trade accounts receivable balance with three US national
wholesale distributors, AmerisourceBergen Corp., Cardinal Health Inc. and McKesson Corp., was equivalent
to 1.4 billion Swiss francs representing 15% of the Group’s consolidated trade accounts receivable
(2007: 1.5 billion Swiss francs representing 16%).109
Nature and geographical location of trade receivables (not overdue) counterparties | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Whole- Whole-
salers/ salers/
Regions Total Public distributors Private Total Public distributors Private
Switzerland 130 51 10 69 175 47 12 116
European Union 2,053 953 643 457 2,106 991 546 569
Rest of Europe 479 11 405 63 661 58 539 64
North America 2,011 154 1,622 235 2,333 308 1,737 288
Latin America 474 142 192 140 461 115 187 159
Japan 1,439 – 1,402 37 1,162 – 1,136 26
Rest of Asia 685 97 255 333 605 83 227 295
Africa, Australia
and Oceania 154 30 58 66 187 51 58 78
Total 7,425 1,438 4,587 1,400 7,690 1,653 4,442 1,595
Cash and marketable securities | These are subject to a policy of restricting exposures to high-quality
counterparties and setting defined limits for individual counterparties. These limits and counterparty credit
ratings are reviewed regularly. Investments in marketable securities are entered into on the basis of guidelines
with regard to liquidity, quality and maximum amount. As a general rule, the Group invests only in high
qualitysecurities with adequate liquidity. Cash and short-term time deposits are subject to rules which limit
the Group’s exposure to individual financial institutions. The Group signs netting agreements under an ISDA
(International Swaps and Derivatives Association) master agreement with the respective counterparties
inorder to control exposures on derivative positions.
Rating analysis of cash and fixed income marketable securities (market values)
2008 2008 2007 2007
(mCHF) (% of total) (mCHF) (% of total)
AAA-range 9,884 48 5,857 25
AA-range 5,390 26 9,598 40
A-range 4,525 22 7,615 32
BBB-range 912 4 773 3
Below BBB-range 9 0 67 0
Total 20,720 100 23,910 100
Overdue assets | Financial assets which are past due but not impaired total 2.7 billion Swiss francs
(2007:2.4 billion Swiss francs).
Analysis of overdue but not impaired financial assets by class | in millions of CHF
Total
amount 0—1 1—3 4—6 6—12 more than
overdue month months months months 1 year
Year ended 31 December 2008
Loans and receivables 2,656 560 681 543 438 434
Year ended 31 December 2007
Loans and receivables 2,423 720 538 483 427 255
As at 31 December 2008 there are no financial assets whose terms have been renegotiated (2007: none).
www.global-reports.com110
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk arises through a surplus of financial obligations over available financial assets due at any point
intime. The Group’s approach to liquidity risk is to maintain sufficient readily available reserves in order
tomeet its liquidity requirements at any point in time. Group liquidity is reported to senior management on
amonthly basis.
Roche, Genentech and Chugai enjoy strong credit quality and are rated by at least one major credit rating
agency. The ratings will permit efficient access to the international capital markets in the event of major
financing requirements. In addition, the Group has unused committed credit lines with various financial
institutions totalling 5.2 billion Swiss francs (2007: 5.7 billion Swiss francs). The decline is due to changes
inforeign currency translation rates.
Contractual maturity analysis of financial liabilities | in millions of CHF
0—3 4—6 7—12 1—2 2—3 3—4 4—5 Over 5
Total months months months years years years years years
Year ended
31 December 2008
Total debta) 5,617 702 46 623 685 135 135 136 3,155
Trade payables 1,053 1,038 14 – 1 – – – –
Accruals 5,379 3,727 429 1,162 61 – – – –
Derivative financial
instruments 194 194 – – – – – – –
Other liabilities:
current & non-current 1,343 788 66 132 136 9 170 27 15
Total financial
liabilities 13,586 6,449 555 1,917 883 144 305 163 3,170
Year ended
31 December 2007
Total debta) 8,953 1,954 30 1,418 762 738 151 152 3,748
Trade payables 1,188 1,177 10 1 – – – – –
Accruals 5,319 3,945 431 881 62 – – – –
Derivative financial
instruments 80 80 – – – – – – –
Other liabilities:
current & non-current 1,253 513 51 127 284 10 186 10 72
Total financial
liabilities 16,793 7,669 522 2,427 1,108 748 337 162 3,820
a) Total debt in the above table shows undiscounted cash flows, whereas the carrying value in the consolidated balance sheet reflects
discounted cash flows.
Market risk
Market risk arises from changing market prices of the Group’s financial assets or financial liabilities. Market
risk may affect the Group financial result and the value of Group equity.
The Group uses Value-at-Risk (VaR) to measure the impact of market risk on its financial instruments.
Rochehas defined VaR limits to manage market risk. VaR data are reported on a monthly basis and indicate
the value range within which a given financial instrument will fluctuate with a pre-set probability as a result
ofmovements in market prices. VaR is a statistical measure which implicitly assumes that value changes of the
recent past are indicative of value changes in the future. VaR figures do not represent actual or expected
losses, or possible worst-case losses over the stated period.111
VaR figures are calculated using a historical simulation approach. For each scenario, all financial instruments
are fully valued and the total change in value and earnings is determined. All VaR calculations are based
ona95% confidence level and a holding period of 20 trading days over the past ten years. This holding
period reflects the time required to change the corresponding risk exposure, should this be deemed appro-
priate. Longer holding periods increase the probability of higher value changes and lead to increased VaR
figures.
Actual future gains and losses associated with our treasury activities may differ materially from the VaR analy-
ses performed due to the inherent limitations associated with predicting the timing and amount of changes
tointerest rates, foreign currency exchanges rates and equity investment prices, particularly in periods of high
market volatilities. Furthermore, the VaR numbers below do not include the effect of changes in credit spreads.
Market risk of financial instruments | in millions of CHF
31 December 2008 31 December 2007
VaR — Foreign exchange component 96 75
VaR — Interest rate component 27 40
VaR — Other price component 62 93
Diversification (52) (65)
VaR — total market risk 133 143
At 31 December 2008, the total VaR of the financial assets and liabilities was 133 million Swiss francs
(2007:143 million Swiss francs). The foreign exchange VaR increased and arises mainly from hedging of
non-US dollar cash flows from future royalty income over the next five years at Genentech. The lower
contribution from the interest rate component was caused by the ageing of fixed-term liabilities. Other price
risk arises mainly from movements in the prices of equity securities and this decreased due to significantly
reduced equity security holdings. At 31 December 2008 the Group held equity securities with a market value
of 0.6 billion Swiss Francs (2007: 1.1 billion Swiss francs). This number includes holdings in biotechnology
companies, which were acquired in the context of licensing transactions or scientific collaborations. The lower
holdings in equity securities resulted in a lower VaR for other price risk.
Foreign exchange risk
The Group operates across the world and is exposed to movements in foreign currencies affecting the
Groupfinancial result and the value of Group’s equity. Foreign exchange risk arises because the amount of
local currency paid or received for transactions denominated in foreign currencies may vary due to changes
inexchange rates (‘transaction exposures’) and because the foreign currency denominated financial state-
ments of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries may vary upon consolidation into the Swiss franc denominated
Group Financial Statements (‘translation exposures’).
The objective of the Group’s foreign exchange risk management activities is to preserve the economic value
ofits current and future assets and to minimise the volatility of the Group’s financial result. The primary focus
of the Group’s foreign exchange risk management activities is on hedging transaction exposures arising
through foreign currency flows or monetary positions held in foreign currencies. The Group does not currently
hedge translation exposures using financial instruments.
The Group monitors transaction exposures on a daily basis. The net foreign exchange result and the
corresponding VaR parameters are reported on a monthly basis. The Group uses forward contracts, foreign
exchange options and cross-currency swaps to hedge transaction exposures. Application of these
instruments intends to continuously lock in favourable developments of foreign exchange rates, thereby
reducing the exposure to potential future movements in such rates.
www.global-reports.com112
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk arises from movements in interest rates which could affect the Group financial result or
thevalue of Group equity. Changes in interest rates may cause variations in interest income and expense.
Inaddition, they may affect the market value of certain financial assets, liabilities and hedging instruments.
The primary objective of the Group’s interest rate management is to protect the net interest result.
Interest rate exposures and the corresponding VaR parameters are reported on a monthly basis. The Group
uses forward contracts, options and swaps to hedge its interest rate exposures. Depending on the interest
rate environment of major currencies, the Group will use these instruments to generate the appropriate mix
offixed and floating rate exposures.
Other price risk
Other price risk arises mainly from movements in the prices of equity securities held by Roche, Genentech or
Chugai. At 31 December 2008, the Group held equity securities with a market value of 0.6 billion Swiss francs
(2007: 1.1 billion Swiss francs). This amount includes holdings in biotechnology companies, which were
acquired in the context of licensing transactions or scientific collaborations. Due to the nature of their business,
biotechnology companies are exposed to greater equity volatilities than general stock market fluctuations.
The Group manages the price risk through placing limits on individual and total equity investments. These
limits are defined both as a percentage of total liquid funds and as an absolute number for individual equity
investments. Equity price risk is reported as a VaR figure on a monthly basis to senior management.
Impairment of financial assets
During 2008 impairments of shares were triggered by a significant or prolonged price decline below cost
value. Impairments of debt securities were recorded due to significant financial difficulties of the issuers.
Impairment losses by asset classes | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Loans and receivables (43) (26)
Available-for-sale financial assets
— Shares (75) (35)
— Investments (40) –
— Debt securities (53) (68)
Total impairment losses (211) (129)
Capital
The Group defines the capital that it manages as the Group’s total equity, including non-controlling interests.
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are:
• To safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide benefits
for patients and returns to investors.
• To provide an adequate return to investors based on the level of risk undertaken.
• To have available the necessary financial resources to allow the Group to invest in areas that may deliver
future benefits for patients and returns to investors.
• To maintain sufficient financial resources to mitigate against risks and unforeseen events.113
Capital is monitored on the basis of the equity ratio, which is calculated as being equity (including non-controlling
interests) as a percentage of total assets. This is reported to senior management as part of the Group’s regular
internal management reporting. The Group’s capital and equity ratio are shown in the tablebelow.
Capital | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Capital and reserves attributable to Roche shareholders28 44,479 45,483
Equity attributable to non-controlling interests30 9,343 7,960
Total equity 53,822 53,443
Total assets 76,089 78,365
Equity ratio 70.7% 68.2%
The Group is not subject to regulatory capital adequacy requirements as known in the financial services
industry.
The Group has majority shareholdings in Genentech (see Note 3) and Chugai (see Note 4). Genentech and
Chugai are both public companies and their objectives, policies and processes for managing their own capital
are determined by local management.
33. Related parties
Controlling shareholders
The share capital of Roche Holding Ltd, which is the Group’s parent company, consists of 160,000,000 bearer
shares. Based on information supplied by a shareholder group with pooled voting rights, comprising Ms Vera
Michalski-Hoffmann, Ms Maja Hoffmann, Mr André Hoffmann, Dr Andreas Oeri, Ms Sabine Duschmalé-Oeri,
Ms Catherine Oeri, Ms Beatrice Oeri and Ms Maja Oeri, that group holds 80,020,000 shares as in the pre-
ceding year, which represents 50.0125% of the issued shares. This figure does not include any shares without
pooled voting rights that are held outside this group by individual members of the group. On28January 2009
the pool members announced that, effective 1 April 2009, Ms Beatrice Oeri would leave thepool and that
MrJörg Duschmalé and Mr Lukas Duschmalé would join the pool. The group would continue to hold a total
80,020,000 shares with pooled voting rights as previously.
Mr André Hoffmann and Dr Andreas Oeri are members of the Board of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd.
MrHoffmann received remuneration totalling 400,000 Swiss francs (2007: 400,000 Swiss francs) and Dr Oeri
received remuneration totalling 360,000 Swiss francs (2007: 360,000 Swiss francs).
There were no other transactions between the Group and the individual members of the above shareholder group.
Subsidiaries and associates
A listing of the major Group subsidiaries and associates is included in Note 34. Transactions between the
parent company and its subsidiaries and between subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation. There were
nosignificant transactions between the Group and its associates.
www.global-reports.com114
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Key management personnel
Members of the Board of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd receive an annual remuneration and payment for
their time and expenses related to their membership of Board committees. Total remuneration of the Board
ofDirectors, excluding the Chairman, in 2008 totalled 4 million Swiss francs (2007: 4 million Swiss francs).
The Chairman of the Board of Directors and members of the Corporate Executive Committee of Roche Holding
Ltd receive remuneration, which consists of an annual salary, bonus and an expense allowance. The Group
pays social insurance contributions in respect of the above remuneration and pays contributions to pension
and other post-employment benefit plans for the Chairman of the Board of Directors and members of
the Corporate Executive Committee. The Chairman of the Board of Directors and members of the Corporate
Executive Committee also participate in certain equity compensation plans as described below. The terms,
vesting conditions and fair value of these awards are disclosed in Note 11.
Remuneration of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and members of the Corporate Executive
Committee | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Salaries, including bonuses and expenses 32 23
Social security costs 3 2
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 5 6
Equity compensation plans 14 22
Other employee benefits 1 –
Total 55 53
Roche Long-Term | During 2008 members of the Corporate Executive Committee were granted
494,097Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) and no Roche Option Plan (ROP) awards
(2007: 223,797 S-SARs and no ROP awards).
Roche Connect | During 2008 contributions paid by the Group with respect to the Chairman of the
BoardofDirectors and members of the Corporate Executive Committee totalled 0.3 million Swiss francs
(2007:0.2million Swiss francs).
Roche Performance Share Plan | During 2008 members of the Corporate Executive Committee were
targeted with 14,805 awards of the 2008—2010 cycle (2007: 19,921 awards from the 2007—2009 cycle).
Eachaward will result in between zero and two non-voting equity securities, depending upon the
achievement ofthe performance targets.
Transactions with former members of the Corporate Executive Committee | Pensions totalling 2 million
Swiss francs (2007: 2 million Swiss francs) were paid by the Group to two former Corporate Executive
Committee members.
The detailed disclosures regarding executive remuneration that are required by Swiss law are included
inthefinancial statements of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel on pages 137—141.
Post-employment benefit plans
Transactions between the Group and the various post-employment defined benefit plans for the employees
ofthe Group are described in Note 10.115
34. Subsidiaries and associates
Divestments of subsidiaries
Effective 3 October 2008 the Group sold its wholly-owned subsidiary Cenexi SAS (‘Cenexi’), including the
manufacturing facility in Fontenay-sous-Bois, France, for 56 million Swiss francs in cash.
Loss on divestment of Cenexi | in millions of CHF
2008
Consideration 56
Net assets disposed
— Property, plant and equipment12 (107)
— Cash (16)
— Other net assets 5
— Accumulated currency translation adjustments28 16
Gain (loss) on divestment (46)
The total loss on divestment has been reported within general and administration expenses in the current
period as part of the segment result of the Roche Pharmaceuticals operating segment. The net cash inflow
from the divestment was 40 million Swiss francs.
Listed companies
Share capital Equity interest
Country Company City (in millions) (in %)
Switzerland Roche Holding Ltd Basel CHF 160.0
Stock Exchange: SIX Zurich
Valor Share: 1203211
Valor Genussscheine: 1203204
ISIN Share: CH0012032113
ISIN Genussscheine: CH0012032048
Market Capitalisation: CHF 140,677.7 m
Basilea Pharmaceutica Ltd. Basel CHF 9.6 6.55
Stock Exchange: SIX Zurich
Valor: 1143244
ISIN: CH0011432447
Market Capitalisation: CHF 1,425.2 m
United States Genentech, Inc. South San Francisco USD 21.0 55.8
Stock Exchange: New York (incorporated in Delaware)
ISIN: US3687104063
Market Capitalisation: USD 87,286.7 m
Japan Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Tokyo JPY 72,966.8 61.5
Stock Exchange: Tokyo
ISIN: JP3519400000
Market Capitalisation: JPY 938,714.0 m
Non-listed companies
Share capital Equity interest
Country Company City (in millions) (in %)
Argentina Productos Roche S.A. Química e Industrial Buenos Aires ARS 83.0 100
Australia Roche Diagnostics Australia Pty. Limited Castle Hill AUD 5.0 100
Roche Products Pty. Limited Dee Why AUD 65.0 100
Austria Roche Austria GmbH Vienna EUR 14.5 100
Roche Diagnostics GmbH Vienna EUR 1.1 100
Roche Diagnostics Graz GmbH Graz EUR 0.4 100
Belgium N.V. Roche S.A. Brussels EUR 32.0 100
Roche Diagnostics Belgium S.A. Brussels EUR 3.8 100
www.global-reports.com116
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Share capital Equity interest
Country Company City (in millions) (in %)
Bermuda Chemical Manufacturing and
Trading Company Limited Hamilton USD 9.6 100
Roche Capital Services Ltd. Hamilton RUB (–) 100
Roche Catalyst Investments Ltd. Hamilton USD (–) 100
Roche Financial Investments Ltd. Hamilton USD (–) 100
Roche Financial Management Ltd. Hamilton USD (–) 100
Roche Financial Services Ltd. Hamilton USD 0.1 100
Roche International Ltd. Hamilton USD (–) 100
Roche Intertrade Limited Hamilton USD 10.0 100
Roche Operations Ltd. Hamilton USD 1.0 100
Roche Services Holdings Ltd. Hamilton USD (–) 100
Syntex Pharmaceuticals International Ltd. Hamilton USD (–) 100
Brazil Produtos Roche Químicos
e Farmacêuticos S.A. São Paulo BRL 41.7 100
Roche Diagnostica Brasil Ltda. São Paulo BRL 211.6 100
Bulgaria Roche Bulgaria EOOD Sofia BGN 5.1 100
Canada Chempharm Limited Toronto CAD (–) 100
Hoffmann-La Roche Limited Toronto CAD 15.3 100
Sapac Corporation Ltd. St. John CAD (–) 100
Chile Roche Chile Limitada Santiago de Chile CLP 70.9 100
China Roche Diagnostics (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong HKD 10.0 100
Roche Diagnostics (Shanghai) Limited Shanghai USD 1.0 100
Roche Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong HKD 10.0 100
Roche R&D Center (China) Ltd. Shanghai USD 6.3 100
Shanghai Roche Pharmaceuticals Limited Shanghai USD 19.5 70
Colombia Productos Roche S.A. Bogotá COP 26,923.7 100
Costa Rica Roche Servicios S.A. Heredia USD (–) 100
Croatia Roche D.O.O. Zagreb HRK 4.8 100
Czech Republic Roche s.r.o. Prague CZK 200.0 100
Denmark Roche a/s Hvidovre DKK 4.0 100
Roche Diagnostics a/s Hvidovre DKK 1.3 100
Dominican Republic Productos Roche Dominicana S.A. Santo Domingo DOP 0.6 100
Ecuador Roche Ecuador S.A. Quito USD 1.1 100
El Salvador Productos Roche (El Salvador) S.A. San Salvador SVC 0.2 100
Estonia Roche Eesti OÜ Tallinn EEK 2.0 100
Finland Roche Diagnostics Oy Espoo EUR 0.2 100
Roche Oy Espoo EUR (–) 100
France Roche Diagnostics S.A. Meylan EUR 16.0 100
Roche S.A.S. Neuilly-sur-Seine EUR 38.2 100
Ventana Medical Systems S.A. Illkirch EUR 0.9 100
Germany Galenus Mannheim GmbH Mannheim EUR 1.7 100
NimbleGen Systems GmbH Pleiskirchen EUR (–) 100
Roche Beteiligungs GmbH Grenzach-Wyhlen EUR 3.6 100
Roche Deutschland Holding GmbH Grenzach-Wyhlen DEM 10.0 100
Roche Diagnostics GmbH Mannheim EUR 94.6 100
Roche Kulmbach GmbH Kulmbach EUR (–) 100
Roche Pharma AG Grenzach-Wyhlen EUR 61.4 100
Swisslab GmbH Berlin EUR (–) 100
Greece Roche (Hellas) S.A. Athens EUR 19.8 100
Roche Diagnostics (Hellas) S.A. Athens EUR 23.7 100
Guatemala Productos Roche Guatemala S.A. Guatemala GTQ 0.6 100
Honduras Productos Roche (Honduras), S.A. Tegucigalpa HNL (–) 100
Hungary Roche (Hungary) Ltd. Budapest HUF 30.0 100
Roche Services (Europe) Ltd. Budapest HUF 3.0 100
India Roche Diagnostics (India) Pvt. Ltd. Mumbai INR 69.1 100
Roche Scientific Company (India) Pvt. Ltd. Mumbai INR 10.0 100
Indonesia P.T. Roche Indonesia Jakarta IDR 1,323.0 98.3
Ireland Roche Ireland Limited Clarecastle EUR 1.9 100
Roche Products (Ireland) Limited Dublin EUR (–) 100
Italy Roche Diagnostics S.p.A. Milan EUR 18.1 100
Roche S.p.A. Milan EUR 34.1 100
Japan Roche Diagnostics K.K. Tokyo JPY 2,500.0 100
Latvia Roche Latvija SIA Riga LVL 0.2 100
Lithuania UAB Roche Lietuva Vilnius LIT 0.8 100
Luxembourg Pharminvest S.A. Luxembourg EUR 28.0 100
Malaysia Roche (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd. Kuala Lumpur MYR 4.0 100
Roche Diagnostics (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd. Kuala Lumpur MYR 0.9 100
Mexico Grupo Roche Syntex de México, S.A. de C.V. Mexico City MXN 3.5 100
Lakeside de México, S.A. de C.V. Mexico City MXN 48.0 100
Productos Roche S.A. de C.V. Mexico City MXN 2.2 100
Syntex S.A. de C.V. Mexico City MXN 80.4 100
Morocco Roche S.A. Casablanca MAD 9.5 100117
Share capital Equity interest
Country Company City (in millions) (in %)
Netherlands Roche Diagnostics Nederland B.V. Almere EUR 2.3 100
Roche Finance Europe B.V. Woerden EUR 2.0 100
Roche Nederland B.V. Woerden EUR 10.9 100
Roche Pharmholding B.V. Woerden EUR 467.8 100
New Zealand Roche Diagnostics NZ Limited Auckland NZD 3.0 100
Roche Products (New Zealand) Limited Auckland NZD 13.5 100
Nicaragua Productos Roche (Nicaragua) S.A. Managua NIO (–) 100
Norway Roche Diagnostics Norge A/S Oslo NOK 5.8 100
Roche Norge A/S Oslo NOK 6.2 100
Pakistan Roche Pakistan Limited Karachi PKR 38.3 100
Panama Productos Roche Interamericana S.A. Panama City USD 0.1 100
Productos Roche Panamá S.A. Panama City PAB (–) 100
Syntex Corporation Panama City USD 1.0 100
Syntex Puerto Rico Inc. Panama City USD (–) 100
Technical Development Corp. Panama City CHF 0.8 100
Peru Productos Roche Química Farmacéutica S.A. Lima PEN 11.1 100
Philippines Roche (Philippines) Inc. Makati PHP 125.0 100
Poland Roche Diagnostics Polska Sp. z o.o. Warsaw PLN 2.0 100
Roche Polska Sp. z o.o. Warsaw PLN 2.0 100
Portugal Roche Farmacêutica Química Lda. Amadora EUR 1.1 100
Roche Sistemas de Diagnósticos
Sociedade Unipessoal Lda. Amadora EUR 2.6 100
Puerto Rico Roche Operations Ltd., Puerto Rico Branch Ponce USD (–) 100
Romania Roche Romania S.R.L. Bucharest RON 297.2 100
Russian Federation Roche — Moscow Ltd. Moscow RUB 2.6 100
Serbia Roche D.O.O. Beograd Belgrade EUR 1.9 100
Singapore Roche Diagnostics Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. Singapore SGD 7.4 100
Roche Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore SGD 4.0 100
Slovakia Roche Slovensko, S.R.O. Bratislava SKK 10.0 100
Slovenia Roche D.O.O. Pharmaceutical Company Ljubljana EUR 0.2 100
South Africa Roche Products (Proprietary) Limited Johannesburg ZAR 60.0 100
South Korea Roche Diagnostics Korea Co., Ltd. Seoul KRW 22,969.0 100
Roche Korea Company Ltd. Seoul KRW 13,375.0 100
Spain Andreu Roche S.A. Madrid EUR 0.1 100
Roche Diagnostics S.L. Barcelona EUR 18.0 100
Roche Farma S.A. Madrid EUR 54.1 100
Syntex Roche S.A. Madrid EUR 0.1 100
Sweden Roche AB Stockholm SEK 20.0 100
Roche Diagnostics Scandinavia AB Bromma SEK 9.0 100
Switzerland Disetronic Handels AG Burgdorf CHF 0.1 100
Disetronic Holding AG Burgdorf CHF 9.7 100
Disetronic Licensing AG Burgdorf CHF 0.1 100
Disetronic Medical Systems AG Burgdorf CHF 0.9 100
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd Basel CHF 150.0 100
GlycArt Biotechnology Ltd. Schlieren CHF 0.3 100
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. Basel CHF 0.5 100
IMIB Institute for Medical Informatics
and Biostatistics Ltd. Basel CHF 0.1 100
Rabbit-Air Ltd. Zurich-Kloten CHF 3.0 100
Roche Capital Market Ltd. Basel CHF 1.0 100
Roche Diagnostics (Switzerland) Ltd. Rotkreuz CHF 1.0 100
Roche Diagnostics AG Rotkreuz CHF 5.0 100
Roche Diagnostics International Ltd. Steinhausen CHF 20.0 100
Roche Finance Ltd. Basel CHF 409.2 100
Roche Long Term Foundation Basel CHF 0.5 100
Roche Pharma (Switzerland) Ltd. Reinach CHF 2.0 100
Syntex Corporation Basel CHF 0.2 100
Taiwan Roche Diagnostics Ltd. Taipei TWD 80.0 100
Roche Products Ltd. Taipei TWD 100.0 100
Thailand Roche Diagnostics (Thailand) Limited Bangkok THB 103.0 100
Roche Thailand Limited Bangkok THB 12.0 100
Turkey Roche Diagnostik Sistemleri Ticaret A.S. Istanbul TRY 30.0 100
Roche Müstahzarlari Sanayi Anonim Sirketi Istanbul TRY 249.5 100
United Kingdom Piramed Limited Berkshire GBP 12.8 100
Roche Diagnostics Ltd. Lewes GBP 32.6 100
Roche Holding (UK) Limited Welwyn Garden City GBP 100.0 100
Roche Products Limited Welwyn Garden City GBP 98.3 100
Roche Registration Limited Welwyn Garden City GBP (–) 100
www.global-reports.com118
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Share capital Equity interest
Country Company City (in millions) (in %)
United States 454 Life Sciences Corporation Branford USD (–) 100
BioVeris Corporation Gaithersburg USD (–) 100
Disetronic Medical Systems Inc. Fishers USD (–) 100
Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. Nutley USD 3.0 100
IGEN International, Inc. Wilmington USD (–) 100
Roche Carolina Inc. Florence USD (–) 100
Roche Colorado Corporation Boulder USD (–) 100
Roche Diagnostics Corporation Indianapolis USD (–) 100
Roche Diagnostics Operations, Inc. Indianapolis USD (–) 100
Roche Finance America Inc. Little Falls USD (–) 100
Roche Finance USA Inc. Little Falls USD (–) 100
Roche Holdings, Inc. Wilmington USD 1.0 100
Roche Laboratories Inc. Nutley USD (–) 100
Roche Madison Inc. Madison USD (–) 100
Roche Molecular Systems, Inc. Pleasanton USD (–) 100
Roche NimbleGen, Inc. Madison USD (–) 100
Roche Palo Alto LLC Palo Alto USD (–) 100
Spring Bioscience Corp. Fremont USD (–) 100
Therapeutic Human Polyclonals, Inc. Palo Alto USD (–) 100
Ventana Medical Systems, Inc. Tucson USD (–) 100
Uruguay Roche International Ltd. —
Montevideo Branch Montevideo UYU (–) 100
Venezuela Productos Roche S.A. Caracas VEF 0.2 100
(–) = share capital of less than 100,000 local currency units.119
Roche Group — Report of Roche Management on Internal Control overFinancial Reporting Roche Finance Report 2008
Report of Roche Management on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Report of Roche Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
The Board of Directors and management of Roche Holding Ltd are responsible for establishing and maintain-
ing adequate control over financial reporting. The internal control system was designed to provide reasonable
assurance over the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation and fair presentation of consolidated
financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those
systems determined to be effective may not prevent or detect misstatements and can provide only reason-
ableassurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.
Management assessed the effectiveness of its system of internal control over financial reporting as of
31December 2008 based on the criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described in
Internal Control — Integrated Frameworkissued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this assessment, management has concluded that the system of
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of 31 December 2008.
The Statutory Auditor KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler SA, have audited the consolidated financial
statements of Roche Holding Ltd for the year ended 31December 2008, in accordance with Swiss Auditing
Standards and with the International Standards on Auditing (ISA). They have also issued a report on the
effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control over financial reporting. This report is set out on
pages122—123.
Franz B. Humer Erich Hunziker
Chairman of the Board of Directors Chief Financial Officer and Deputy Head
of the Corporate Executive Committee
Basel, 29 January 2009
www.global-reports.com120
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Report of the Statutory Auditor on the Consolidated Financial Statements
Report of the Statutory Auditor on the
Consolidated Financial Statements
Report of the Statutory Auditor on the Consolidated Financial Statements
to the Annual General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
As statutory auditor, we have audited the consolidated financial statements (income statement, balance sheet,
cash flow statement, statement of recognised income and expense, statement of changes in equity and notes
on pages 28 to 118) of Roche Holding Ltd for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Board of Directors’ Responsibility | The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and fair
presentation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) and the requirements of Swiss law. This responsibility includes designing, implementing
andmaintaining an internal control system relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of consolidated
financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The Board of
Directors is further responsible for selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies and making
accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Auditor’s Responsibility | Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss law, Swiss Auditing
Standards and International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material
misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the
consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the
assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to
fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers the internal control system relevant to
the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness
of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made, as well as evaluating
the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion | In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31December2008 give
atrue and fair view of the financial position, the results of operations and the cash flows in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and comply with Swiss law.121
Report on Other Legal Requirements
We confirm that we meet the legal requirements on licensing according to the Auditor Oversight Act (AOA)
and independence (article 728 CO and article 11 AOA) and that there are no circumstances incompatible with
our independence.
In accordance with article 728a paragraph 1 item 3 CO and Swiss Auditing Standard 890, we confirm that
aninternal control system exists, which has been designed for the preparation of consolidated financial
statements according to the instructions of the Board of Directors.
We recommend that the consolidated financial statements submitted to you be approved.
KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler SA
John A. Morris François Rouiller
Licensed Audit Expert Licensed Audit Expert
Auditor in Charge
Basel, 29 January 2009
www.global-reports.com122
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Report of the Independent Auditor on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Report of the Independent Auditor on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Report of the Independent Auditor on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
to the Annual General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
We have examined the Roche Group’s system of internal control over financial reporting as of 31December
2008, based on criteria established in ‘Internal Control — Integrated Framework’ issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
The Board of Directors and management of Roche Holding Ltd are responsible for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting as included in the accompanying Report of Roche Management on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our examination. An entity’s internal control over financial reporting is a process
effected by the entity’s board of directors, management, and other personnel, designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS) and includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the entity; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
the preparation of financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework; and
(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding the prevention or timely detection of the unauthorised
acquisition, use, or disposition of the entity's assets that could have amaterial effect on the entity’s financial
statements.
We conducted our examination in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements
3000 (ISAE 3000). This standard requires that we plan and perform our examination to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our examination included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our examination provides
areasonable basis for our opinion.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of
management override of controls, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also,
projections of any evaluation of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the
risk that internal control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or because the degree
ofcompliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.123
In our opinion, the Roche Group maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control, over financial
reporting as of31 December 2008, based on criteria established in ‘Internal Control — Integrated Framework’
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
We also have audited, in accordance with Swiss Auditing Standards and International Standards on Auditing,
the consolidated financial statements of Roche Holding Ltd for the year ended 31 December 2008 and our
report dated 29 January 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.
KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler SA
John A. Morris François Rouiller
Basel, 29 January 2009
www.global-reports.com124
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Multi-Year Overview and Supplementary Information
Multi-Year Overview and
Supplementary Information
Multi-year overview
Statistics, as reported
1999 2000 2001
Statement of income | in millions of CHF
Sales 27,567 28,672 29,163
EBITDA 8,874 11,126 6,438
Operating profit 6,421 7,131 3,247
Net income attributable to Roche shareholders 5,764 8,647 3,697
Research and development 3,782 3,950 3,893
Balance sheet | in millions of CHF
Non-current assets 35,800 34,798 36,411
Current assets 34,631 34,737 38,875
Total assets 70,431 69,535 75,286
Non-current liabilities (25,574) (23,642) (25,772)
Current liabilities (14,856) (13,857) (15,647)
Total liabilities (40,430) (37,499) (41,419)
Net assets 30,001 32,036 33,867
Capital and reserves attributable to Roche shareholders 26,954 27,608 28,973
Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 3,047 4,428 4,894
Additions to property, plant and equipment 2,150 2,183 1,931
Personnel
Number of employees at end of year 67,695 64,758 63,717
Key ratios
Net income attributable to Roche shareholders as % of sales 21 30 13
Net income as % of equity, attributable to Roche shareholders 21 31 13
Research and development as % of sales 14 14 13
Current ratio % 233 251 248
Equity and non-controlling interests as % of total assets 43 46 45
Sales per employee in thousands of CHF 407 443 458
Data on shares and non-voting equity securities
Number of shares 1,600,000 1,600,000 160,000,000
Number of non-voting equity securities (Genussscheine) 7,025,627 7,025,627 702,562,700
Total shares and non-voting equity securities 8,625,627 8,625,627 862,562,700
Total dividend in millions of CHF 863a) 992 1,121
Earnings per share and non-voting equity security (diluted) in CHF 668 1,024 4.37
Dividend per share and non-voting equity security in CHF 100a) 115 1.30
Information in this table is stated as reported. Changes in accounting policies arising from changes in International Financial Reporting
Standards and the 100 for 1 stock split in 2001 are not applied retrospectively.125
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
29,453 31,220 31,273 35,511 42,041 46,133 45,617
7,993 8,609 9,566 11,404 14,436 17,068 16,637
1,335 5,592 8,979 8,669 11,730 14,468 13,896
(4,026) 3,069 6,641 5,787 7,880 9,761 8,969
4,257 4,766 5,093 5,705 6,589 8,385 8,845
33,143 29,820 28,670 33,739 33,519 35,349 37,485
30,852 29,666 29,406 35,626 40,895 42,834 38,604
63,995 59,486 58,076 69,365 74,414 78,183 76,089
(22,850) (18,658) (14,882) (18,130) (14,908) (10,422) (10,163)
(15,372) (11,664) (9,901) (9,492) (12,692) (14,454) (12,104)
(38,222) (30,322) (24,783) (27,622) (27,600) (24,876) (22,267)
25,773 29,164 33,293 41,743 46,814 53,307 53,822
20,810 23,570 28,223 34,922 39,444 45,347 44,479
4,963 5,594 5,070 6,821 7,370 7,960 9,343
2,044 2,265 2,357 3,428 3,878 3,648 3,187
69,659 65,357 64,703 68,218 74,372 78,604 80,080
–14 10 21 16 19 21 20
–19 13 24 17 20 22 20
14 15 16 16 16 18 19
201 254 297 375 322 296 319
40 49 57 60 63 68 71
427 482 483 521 565 587 570
160,000,000 160,000,000 160,000,000 160,000,000 160,000,000 160,000,000 160,000,000
702,562,700 702,562,700 702,562,700 702,562,700 702,562,700 702,562,700 702,562,700
862,562,700 862,562,700 862,562,700 862,562,700 862,562,700 862,562,700 862,562,700
1,251 1,423 1,725 2,156 2,933 3,968 4,313b)
(4.80) 3.61 7.81 6.71 9.05 11.16 10.23
1.45 1.65 2.00 2.50 3.40 4.60 5.00b)
a) Dividend 1999 does not include the special dividend relating to the spin-off of the Fragrances and Flavours Division.
b) Dividend 2008 as proposed by the Board of Directors.
www.global-reports.com126
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Multi-Year Overview and Supplementary Information
Sales by division | in millions of CHF
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Pharmaceuticals 21,695 27,268 33,294 36,783 35,961
Diagnostics 7,827 8,243 8,747 9,350 9,656
Consumer Health (OTC) 1,751 – – – –
Total 31,273 35,511 42,041 46,133 45,617
Sales by geographical area | in millions of CHF
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Switzerland 442 501 471 489 509
European Union 10,660 11,715 13,823 15,465 15,601
— of which Germany 2,288 2,624 2,993 3,277 3,200
Rest of Europe 896 1,061 1,307 1,620 1,521
Europe 11,998 13,277 15,601 17,574 17,631
United States 10,430 12,667 15,685 17,069 16,362
Rest of North America 595 812 985 1,004 932
North America 11,025 13,479 16,670 18,073 17,294
Latin America 1,825 2,033 2,539 2,784 2,975
Japan 3,875 3,948 3,713 3,562 3,532
Rest of Asia 1,553 1,803 2,384 2,681 2,920
Asia 5,428 5,751 6,097 6,243 6,452
Africa, Australia and Oceania 997 971 1,134 1,459 1,265
Total 31,273 35,511 42,041 46,133 45,617127
Additions to property, plant and equipment by division | in millions of CHF
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Pharmaceuticals 1,572 2,613 3,030 2,588 1,940
Diagnostics 778 813 846 1,058 1,245
Consumer Health (OTC) 6 – – – –
Corporate 1 2 2 2 2
Total 2,357 3,428 3,878 3,648 3,187
Additions to property, plant and equipment by geographical area | in millions of CHF
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Switzerland 232 376 350 418 421
European Union 808 910 995 993 960
— of which Germany 480 545 661 660 591
Rest of Europe 17 25 15 30 17
Europe 1,057 1,311 1,360 1,441 1,398
United States 1,022 1,739 2,061 1,679 1,212
Rest of North America 8 13 47 34 21
North America 1,030 1,752 2,108 1,713 1,233
Latin America 74 63 101 133 127
Japan 128 197 201 230 292
Rest of Asia 46 75 69 103 116
Asia 174 272 270 333 408
Africa, Australia and Oceania 22 30 39 28 21
Total 2,357 3,428 3,878 3,648 3,187
European Union information is based on members of the EU as at 31 December 2008. The comparative information has been restated
toinclude new EU members for the whole five-year period.
www.global-reports.com128
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Multi-Year Overview and Supplementary Information
Supplementary Net Income and EPS Information
The Group’s basic and diluted earnings per share information is given in Note 29 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements on pages 103—104. Supplementary EPS information is given below on net income before
exceptional items and also on core net income, which additionally excludes amortisation of intangible
assetsand the related impacts on income taxes and non-controlling interests.
Profit from continuing businesses before exceptional items and Core net income | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Net income 10,844 11,437
Major legal cases (271) –
— income taxes 105 –
(166) –
Changes in Group organisation 243 –
— income taxes (93) –
150 –
Profit from continuing businesses before exceptional items 10,828 11,437
Non-controlling interests
— net income (1,875) (1,676)
— exceptional items (major legal cases) 73 –
— exceptional items (changes in Group organisation) (25) –
(1,827) (1,676)
Net income attributable to Roche shareholders
(before exceptional items) 9,001 9,761
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 1,073 1,034
— income taxes (356) (374)
— non-controlling interests (52) (60)
665 600
Core net income 9,666 10,361
EPS (continuing businesses before exceptional items) and Core EPS
EPS (continuing businesses
before exceptional items) Core EPS
2008 2007 2008 2007
Net income attributable to Roche shareholders(millions of CHF) 9,001 9,761 9,666 10,361
Elimination of interest expense, net of tax,
of convertible debt instruments, where dilutive – 4 – 4
Increase in non-controlling share of net income, net of tax, assuming
all outstanding Genentech and Chugai stock options exercised (154) (141) (159) (146)
Net income used to calculate diluted earnings per share 8,847 9,624 9,507 10,219
Per share information(millions of shares and non-voting equity securities)
Weighted average number of shares
and non-voting equity securities in issue 860 859 860 859
Adjustment for assumed conversion
of convertible debt instruments, where dilutive – 1 – 1
Adjustment for assumed exercise of equity compensation plans,
where dilutive 1 2 1 2
Weighted average number of shares and non-voting equity
securities in issue used to calculate diluted earnings per share 861 862 861 862
Earnings per share (diluted) (CHF) 10.28 11.16 11.04 11.85129
Supplementary Operating Free Cash Flow Information
Divisional operating free cash flow information | in millions of CHF
Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics
Division Division Corporate Group
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
Depreciation,
amortisation and
impairments
Depreciation of property,
plant and equipment 1,022 957 649 599 5 4 1,676 1,560
Amortisation of intangible
assets 511 645 458 331 – – 969 976
Impairment of property,
plant and equipment 20 4 8 2 – – 28 6
Impairment of intangible
assets 99 58 5 – – – 104 58
Total 1,652 1,664 1,120 932 5 4 2,777 2,600
Other adjustments
Add back
— Expenses for equity-settled
equity compensation plans 476 560 36 29 14 14 526 603
— Net (income)/expense
for provisions 304 403 128 226 (15) 4 417 633
— Net gain from disposals (397) (309) 13 8 (5) – (389) (301)
Deduct
— Net cash flow from
equity compensation plans (174) (1,210) (21) (41) (5) (17) (200) (1,268)
— Utilisation of provisions (864) (574) (179) (101) (18) (21) (1,061) (696)
— Proceeds from disposals 499 295 25 68 17 – 541 363
Total (156) (835) 2 189 (12) (20) (166) (666)
Operating profit
cash adjustments 1,496 829 1,122 1,121 (7) (16) 2,611 1,934
EBITDA
Operating profit before
exceptional items 12,974 13,042 1,187 1,648 (265) (222) 13,896 14,468
Depreciation, amortisation
and impairments
— Total Group 1,652 1,664 1,120 932 5 4 2,777 2,600
— Add back exceptional item (36) – – – – – (36) –
EBITDA 14,590 14,706 2,307 2,580 (260) (218) 16,637 17,068
— margin, % of sales 40.6 40.0 23.9 27.6 – – 36.5 37.0
www.global-reports.com130
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Multi-Year Overview and Supplementary Information
Pharmaceutical sub-divisional operating free cash flow information | in millions of CHF
Roche Pharmaceuticals
Pharmaceuticals Genentech Chugai Division
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
Depreciation,
amortisation and
impairments
Depreciation of property,
plant and equipment 594 530 336 337 92 90 1,022 957
Amortisation of intangible
assets 252 398 190 179 69 68 511 645
Impairment of property,
plant and equipment 11 2 – – 9 2 20 4
Impairment of intangible
assets 99 16 – 42 – – 99 58
Total 956 946 526 558 170 160 1,652 1,664
Other adjustments
Add back
— Expenses for equity-settled
equity compensation plans 105 92 369 465 2 3 476 560
— Net (income)/expense
for provisions 507 331 (227) 73 24 (1) 304 403
— Net gain from disposals (412) (251) 13 (63) 2 5 (397) (309)
Deduct
— Net cash flow from
equity compensation plans (65) (139) (109) (1,071) – – (174) (1,210)
— Utilisation of provisions (294) (550) (569) (23) (1) (1) (864) (574)
— Proceeds from disposals 493 295 (1) – 7 – 499 295
Total 334 (222) (524) (619) 34 6 (156) (835)
Operating profit
cash adjustments 1,290 724 2 (61) 204 166 1,496 829
EBITDA
Operating profit before
exceptional items 6,795 7,225 5,821 5,298 591 610 13,207 13,133
Elimination within division1) (233) (91)
Total 6,795 7,225 5,821 5,298 591 610 12,974 13,042
Depreciation, amortisation
and impairments
— Total Group 956 946 526 558 170 160 1,652 1,664
— Add back exceptional item (36) – – – – – (36) –
EBITDA 7,715 8,171 6,347 5,856 761 770 14,590 14,706
— margin, % of sales 34.8 35.6 60.7 56.2 22.8 22.7 40.6 40.0
1) Unrealised internal profits on inventories that have been sold from one sub-division to another, but which have not yet been sold
ontoexternal customers at the balance sheet date are eliminated as a consolidation entry.131
Roche Group — Roche Securities Roche Finance Report 2008
Roche Securities
Price Development of Share | in CHF
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Roche Share Swiss Market Index (rebased)
Price Development of non-voting equity security (Genussschein) | in CHF
250
200
150
100
50
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Roche non-voting equity security Swiss Market Index (rebased)
Price Development of American Depositary Receipt (ADR) | in USD
100
80
60
40
20
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Roche ADR S&P 500 Index (rebased)
Four Roche American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) are equivalent to one non-voting equity security (Genussschein). ADRs have been
traded in the United States over-the-counter market since July 1992.
Information in these tables is restated for the 100 for 1 stock split of Roche shares and non-voting equity securities (Genussscheine)
effective 4 May 2001, the change in the ratio for the ADRs from 1:1 to 2:1 effective 24 January 2005 and the change in the ratio for the
ADRs from 2:1 to 4:1 effective 9 January 2009.
www.global-reports.com132
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Group — Roche Securities
Number of shares and non-voting equity securitiesa)
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Number of shares
(nominal value: CHF 1.00) 160,000,000 160,000,000 160,000,000 160,000,000 160,000,000
Number of non-voting equity securities
(Genussscheine)(no nominal value) 702,562,700 702,562,700 702,562,700 702,562,700 702,562,700
Total 862,562,700 862,562,700 862,562,700 862,562,700 862,562,700
Data per share and non-voting equity security | in CHF
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Net income 7.81 6.71 9.05 11.16 10.23
Equity 32.72 40.49 45.73 52.57 51.57
Dividend 2.00 2.50 3.40 4.60 5.00c)
Stock price of shareb) Opening 171.50 150.00 219.20 247.50 213.00
High 193.00 230.00 252.50 266.25 229.50
Low 137.20 139.00 198.00 209.70 155.20
Year-end 150.00 219.20 247.50 213.00 168.70
Stock price of non-voting
equity security (Genussschein)b) Opening 124.75 130.90 197.30 218.50 195.60
High 140.25 206.90 227.00 240.10 208.60
Low 118.75 120.60 185.80 190.30 148.20
Year-end 130.90 197.30 218.50 195.60 162.50
Market capitalisation | in millions of CHF
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Year end 113,195 170,879 191,575 171,060 140,678
Key ratios (year-end)
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Net income as % of equity 24 17 20 21 20
Dividend yield of shares in % 1.3 1.1 1.4 2.2 3.0
Dividend yield of non-voting
equity securities (Genussscheine)in % 1.5 1.3 1.6 2.4 3.1
Price/earnings of shares 19 33 27 19 16
Price/earnings of non-voting
equity securities (Genussscheine) 17 29 24 18 16
a) Each non-voting equity security (Genussschein)confers the same rights as any of the shares to participate in the available earnings
and any remaining proceeds from liquidation following repayment of the nominal value of the shares and the participation certificate
capital (if any). Shares and non-voting equity securities are listed on the Swiss Exchange. Roche Holding Ltd has no restrictions
astoownership of its shares or non-voting equity securities.
b) All stock price data reflect daily closing prices.
c) Dividend 2008 as proposed by the Board of Directors.
Ticker symbols
Share Non-voting equity security American Depositary Receipt
Reuters RO.S ROG.VX RHHBY.PK
Bloomberg RO SW ROG VX RHHBY US
SIX Swiss Exchange RO ROG –133
Roche Holding Ltd, Basel — Financial Statements Roche Finance Report 2008
Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
Financial Statements
Income statement | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Income
Income from participations 3,390 4,121
Interest income from loans to Group companies 227 121
Interest and investment income 23 72
Other income 19 18
Total income 3,659 4,332
Expenses
Financial expenses (88) (24)
Administration expenses (33) (31)
Other expenses (21) (22)
Total expenses (142) (77)
Profit for the year before taxes 3,517 4,255
Taxes (18) (17)
Net profit for the year 3,499 4,238
www.global-reports.com134
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Holding Ltd, Basel — Financial Statements
Balance sheet at 31 December | in millions of CHF
2008 2007
Non-current assets
Participations 4,580 4,558
Long-term loans to Group companies 4,509 4,571
Total non-current assets 9,089 9,129
Current assets
Short-term loans to Group companies 3,000 –
Accounts receivable from Group companies 67 11
Other accounts receivable 1 1
Marketable securities 91 3,609
Liquid funds – –
Total current assets 3,159 3,621
Total assets 12,248 12,750
Equity
Share capital 160 160
Non-voting equity securities (Genussscheine) p.m. p.m.
General legal reserve 300 300
Free reserve 5,519 5,251
Special reserve 2,152 2,152
Available earnings:
— Balance brought forward from previous year 2 –
— Net profit for the year 3,499 4,238
Total equity 11,632 12,101
Non-current liabilities
Provisions 35 35
Total non-current liabilities 35 35
Current liabilities
Accounts payable to Group companies 559 588
Unrealised foreign currency gains – 4
Other liabilities 22 22
Total current liabilities 581 614
Total liabilities 616 649
Total equity and liabilities 12,248 12,750
p.m. = pro memoria. Non-voting equity securities have no nominal value.135
Roche Holding Ltd, Basel — Notes to the Financial Statements Roche Finance Report 2008
Notes to the Financial Statements
1. Summary of significant accounting policies
Basis of preparation of the financial statements
The financial statements of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel, are prepared in accordance with the provisions
ofSwisslaw.
Participations
The major participations of the company are listed in Note 34 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial
Statements.
Valuation methods and translation of foreign currencies
Marketable securities are reported at the lower of cost or market value. All other assets, including partici-
pations, are reported at cost less appropriate write-downs. Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies are translated into Swiss francs using year-end rates of exchange, except participations which are
translated at historical rates. Transactions during the year which are denominated in foreign currencies
aretranslated at the exchange rates effective at the relevant transaction dates. Resulting exchange gains and
losses are recognised in the income statement with the exception of unrealised gains which are deferred.
Taxes
The tax charge includes corporate income and capital taxes.
2. Equity
Share capital
As in the previous year, share capital amounts to 160 million Swiss francs. The share capital consists of
160,000,000 bearer shares with a nominal value of 1 Swiss franc each. Included in equity are 702,562,700
non-voting equity securities (Genussscheine). They are not part of the share capital and confer no voting
rights. However each non-voting equity security (Genussschein)confers the same rights as any of the shares
to participate in the available earnings and in any remaining proceeds from liquidation following repayment
ofthe nominal value of the share capital and, if any, participation certificates.
www.global-reports.com136
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Holding Ltd, Basel — Notes to the Financial Statements
Movement in recognised amounts | in millions of CHF
General
Share legal Free Special Available Total
capital reserve reserve reserve earnings equity
As at 1 January 2006 160 300 4,414 2,152 2,394 9,420
— Net income – – – – 3,533 3,533
— Dividends paid – – – – (2,157) (2,157)
— Transfer to free reserve – – 233 – (233) –
As at 31 December 2006 160 300 4,647 2,152 3,537 10,796
— Net income – – – – 4,238 4,238
— Dividends paid – – – – (2,933) (2,933)
— Transfer to free reserve – – 604 – (604) –
As at 31 December 2007 160 300 5,251 2,152 4,238 12,101
— Net income – – – – 3,499 3,499
— Dividends paid – – – – (3,968) (3,968)
— Transfer to free reserve – – 268 – (268) –
As at 31 December 2008 160 300 5,519 2,152 3,501 11,632
3. Contingent liabilities
Guarantees
Within the framework of the European Medium Term Note (EMTN) programme the company has issued guar-
antees in favour of Group companies amounting to 420million Swiss francs (2007:1,987 million Swiss francs).
4. Significant shareholders
All shares in the Company are bearer shares, and for this reason the Company does not keep a register
ofshareholders. The following figures are based on information from shareholders, the shareholder validation
check at the Annual General Meeting of 4 March 2008 and on other information available to the Company.
80,020,000 (2007: 80,020,000) shares: Shareholder group with pooled voting rights, comprising Ms Vera
Michalski-Hoffmann, Ms Maja Hoffmann, Mr André Hoffmann, Dr Andreas Oeri, Ms Sabine Duschmalé-Oeri,
Ms Catherine Oeri, Ms Beatrice Oeri and Ms Maja Oeri.a),b)
53,332,863 (2007: 53,332,863) shares (participation below 331⁄%): Novartis Ltd, Basel including affiliates
3
thereof.c)
a) Information supplied by the shareholders. This figure of 80,020,000 shares does not include shares without pooled voting rights held
outside this group by individual members of the group.
b) On 28 January 2009 the pool members announced that, effective 1 April 2009, Ms Beatrice Oeri would leave the pool and that Mr Jörg
Duschmalé and Mr Lukas Duschmalé would join the pool. The group would continue to hold a total 80,020,000 shares with pooled
voting rights as previously.
c) Figures as of 31 December 2008 supplied by Novartis Ltd, Basel.137
5. Risk management
The detailed disclosures regarding risk management that are required by Swiss law are included in the
RocheGroup Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 107—113.
6. Board and Executive remuneration
Board of Directors
Members of the Board of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd receive an annual remuneration and payment for
their time and expenses related to their membership of Board committees.
Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors | in thousands of CHF
2008 2007
B. Gehrig 409 450
A. Hoffmann 400 400
P. Baschera 330 277
J.I. Bell 330 593
P. Brabeck-Letmathe 300 300
L.J.R. de Vink 330 330
W. Frey 360 360
D.A. Julius 360 360
A. Oeri 360 360
W. Ruttenstorfer 330 277
H. Teltschik 391 392
B. Weder di Mauro 360 360
Total remuneration of Board of Directors 4,260 4,459
The Chairman of the Board of Directors, Dr Franz B. Humer, received remuneration in 2008 as shown in the
table below.
Remuneration of the Chairman of the Board of Directors | in thousands of CHF
2008
Annual salary, including bonuses and expenses 11,030
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 2,956
Equity compensation plans 983
Other employee benefits 260
Total remuneration received 15,229
Social security costs 1,521
Total 16,750
In 2007 Dr Humer received remuneration, indirect benefits and participated in certain equity compensation
plans totalling 22millionSwiss francs.
Corporate Executive Committee
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee (‘CEC’) of Roche Holding Ltd receive remuneration, indirect
benefits and participate in certain equity compensation plans as shown in the table below. On 4 March 2008
Dr Franz B. Humer handed over his executive function as CEO to Dr Severin Schwan.Since DrSchwan
wasthe member of the Corporate Executive Committee with the highest total remuneration in2008 his remu-
neration is also disclosed. In 2007 Dr Humer was the member of the Corporate Executive Committee with
thehighest total remuneration in 2007.
www.global-reports.com138
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Holding Ltd, Basel — Notes to the Financial Statements
Remuneration of the members of the Corporate Executive Committee in 2008 | in thousands of CHF
— of which
Total CECa) S. Schwan
Annual salary, including bonuses and expenses 21,384 5,313
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 2,422 202
Equity compensation plans 12,557 2,493
Other employee benefits 145 11
Total remuneration received 36,508 8,019
Social security costs 1,777 287
Total 38,285 8,306
a) Amounts for the total CEC for 2008 do not include Dr Humer.
In 2007 the total remuneration of the Corporate Executive Committee was 53 million Swiss francs. Dr Humer
was the member of the Corporate Executive Committee with the highest total remuneration in 2007, with a
total remuneration of 22 million Swiss francs.
Employer contribution to social security schemes and pension plans | The Group pays social insurance
contributions in respect of the above remuneration and pays contributions to pension and other post-
employment benefit plans for the Chairman of the Board of Directors and members of the Corporate Executive
Committee.
Equity Compensation Plans | The Chairman of the Board of Directors and members of the Corporate
Executive Committee also participate in certain equity compensation plans as described below. The terms
andvesting conditions of these awards are disclosed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The fair values used in the Consolidated Financial Statements represent the cost to the company at grant
dateand reflect amongst other matters the observed exercise behaviour and exit rate for the whole popula-
tion that receive them and initial simulations of any performance conditions. For the purposes of these
remuneration disclosures the fair values are calculated based on the fair value that the employee receives
taking into account the preliminary assessment of any completed performance conditions.
The Chairman of the Board of Directors and members of the Corporate Executive Committee are eligible to
participate in Roche Connect, a programme that enables employees to make regular deductions from their
salaries to purchase non-voting equity securities. The Group contributes to the programme, which allows the
employees to purchase non-voting equity securities at a discount (usually 20%).
During 2008 members of the Corporate Executive Committee were granted 494,097 Stock-settled Stock
Appreciation Rights (S-SARs). The individual awards relating to 2008 are shown in the table below. The fair
value of these awards for the employee is 21.08 Swiss francs, which is calculated using the Black-Scholes
formula, assuming holding until maturity, and deducting 11% for the average 2 year vesting period. The
Chairman of the Board of Directors was not granted S-SARs during 2008.
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee and other members of senior management participate in the
Roche Performance Share Plan (PSP). The Group has three overlapping three-year PSPs. The target awards
for the three-year cycle are defined at the beginning of the cycle and the awards are considered to form
partof the employee’s remuneration in three equal annual amounts over the three-year cycle. Each award
willresult in between zero and two non-voting equity securities (Genussscheine), depending upon the
achievement of the performance targets, and the discretion of the Board of Directors. The individual awards
relating to 2008 are shown in the table below. The number of the awards is calculated as follows:
• PSP 2006—2008: A preliminary allocation based on the actual performance for the period 2006 to 2008,
which shows 0.75 non-voting equity security (Genussschein)per award.
• PSP 2007—2009: One non-voting equity security (Genussschein)per award.
• PSP 2008—2010: One non-voting equity security (Genussschein)per award.139
• The resulting allocations are multiplied by the non-voting equity security (Genussschein)price at
31December 2008 of 162.50 Swiss francs to give the fair value for the remuneration received by the
employee.
The Chairman of the Board of Directors was not granted PSPs for the 2008—2010 cycle.
Remuneration from equity compensation plans in 2008 | in thousands of CHF
Roche Connect S-SAR awards PSP awards
Employer S-SAR ’08 S-SAR ’08 PSP ’06—’08 PSP ’07—’09 PSP ’08—’10 PSP Total
contributions (number) fair value (number) (number) (number) fair value fair value
Total CECa) 191 494,097 10,416 8,739 12,459 14,805 1,950 12,557
— of which
S. Schwan 49 105,576 2,226 838 1,218 1,965 218 2,493
a) Amounts for the total CEC for 2008 do not include Dr Humer.
In 2007 the total remuneration of the Corporate Executive Committee from equity compensation plans was
22million Swiss francs, of which 9 million Swiss was attributable to Dr Humer, the member of the Corporate
Executive Committee with the highest total remuneration.
Other employee benefits | This includes tax advisory costs, and remuneration of Dr Hunziker, Mr Burns and
Prof. Knowles for serving on the Chugai Board of Directors.
Transactions with former members of the Corporate Executive Committee | Pensions totalling 2million
Swiss francs were paid by the Group in 2008 to two other former Corporate Executive Committee members
(2007: 2million Swiss francs). In 2007 Mr Heino von Prondzynski, a former member of the Corporate
Executive Committee, received a bonus of 0.4 million Swiss francs in respect of services rendered in 2006
andadditionally received a total of 12,212 non-voting equity securities based on pro-rated Roche
Performance Share Plan awards.
7. Board and Executive shareholdings
Board of Directors
Directors Mr André Hoffmann and Dr Andreas Oeri and other members of the founder’s families who are
closely associated with them belong to a shareholder group with pooled voting rights. At the end of 2008 this
group held 80,020,000 shares (50.01% of issued shares). Detailed information about this group is given in
Note 4. In addition, as of 31 December 2008 the members of the Board of Directors and persons closely
associated with them held shares and non-voting equity securities (Genussscheine)as shown in the table
below.
www.global-reports.com140
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Holding Ltd, Basel — Notes to the Financial Statements
Shareholdings of members of the Board of Directors
Non-voting
equity securities
Shares (Genussscheine) Other
2008 2007 2008 2007
F.B. Humer 3 3 153,919 58,886 b)
B. Gehrig 50 50 50 50
A. Hoffmann –a) –a) 365,200c) 365,200 c),d)
P. Baschera 1 1 – –
J.I. Bell 300 300 1,647 1,647
P. Brabeck-Letmathe 800 800 2,195 2,195
L.J.R. de Vink – – – – e)
W. Frey 72,500 72,500 – –
D.A. Julius 350 350 1,550 1,250
A. Oeri 90,000a) 90,000a) 1,640,460 1,640,460 d)
W. Ruttenstorfer 1,000 1,000 – –
H. Teltschik 385 385 – –
B. Weder di Mauro 200 200 – –
Total 165,589a) 165,589a) 2,165,021 2,069,688
a) Figure does not include shares held in the shareholder group with pooled voting rights.
b) Equity compensation awards: Roche Option Plan, S-SARs and Roche Performance Share Plan. See below.
c) As reported to the Swiss Exchange on 21August 2008, Mr Hoffmann entered into a call options agreement with UBS on 365,000 Roche
non-voting equity securities for the period 21August 2008—20 August 2010.
d) Mr Hoffmann and Dr Oeri each hold 250,000 UBS Long/Short Certificates on Roche bearer shares (RO) versus Roche non-voting
equity securities (ROG), (ISIN: CH0026480100).
e) Mr de Vink holds 1,000 Roche American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) RHHBY (ISIN: US7711951043).
Corporate Executive Committee
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee and persons closely associated with them held shares and
non-voting equity securities (Genussscheine) as shown in the table below.
Shareholdings of members of the Corporate Executive Committee
Non-voting
equity securities
Shares (Genussscheine) Other
2008 2007 2008 2007
S. Schwan 3 3 9,468 2,148 a),b)
S. Ayyoubi 3 n/a 7,161 n/a a)
W.M. Burns 3 3 53,460 34,249 a)
E. Hunziker 3 3 43,839 19,928 a)
G.A. Keller 1,063 253 21,854 11,625 a),c)
J.K.C. Knowles 3 3 33,065 27,366 a)
J. Schwiezer 3 n/a 10,960 n/a a)
Total 1,081 265 179,807 95,316
a) Equity compensation awards: Roche Option Plan, S-SARs and Roche Performance Share Plan. See below.
b) Dr Schwan’s close relatives hold 270 Roche non-voting equity securities (Genussscheine)(2007: zero).
c) Dr Keller’s close relatives hold 140 Roche non-voting equity securities (Genussscheine)(2007: 210).
At 31 December 2008 the Chairman of the Board of Directors and members of the Corporate Executive
Committee held Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs, first issued in 2005) and Roche Option
Plan awards (issued before 2005) as shown in the table below. Each option entitles the holder to purchase
one Roche non-voting equity security (Genussscheine)at a specified strike price. The terms and vesting
conditions of these awards are disclosed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and additional
supplementary information is in the Remuneration Report, which is included in the Business Report on
pages75—85.141
Roche Option Plan and S-SARs awards held at 31 December 2008
Year of issue 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Total
S. Schwan 105,576 29,190 15,696 4,983 1,864 1,635 – 158,944
S. Ayyoubi 21,117 3,243 2,517 3,957 2,360 2,324 1,900 37,418
W.M. Burns 105,576 48,651 26,160 34,074 14,874 17,353 – 246,688
E. Hunziker 92,907 48,651 26,160 34,074 20,915 – – 222,707
G.A. Keller 63,345 24,327 15,696 3,150 4,000 – – 110,518
J.K.C. Knowles 63,345 24,327 15,696 – – – – 103,368
J. Schwiezer 42,231 9,819 5,565 8,871 5,610 3,065 – 75,161
Total CEC 494,097 188,208 107,490 89,109 49,623 24,377 1,900 954,804
F.B. Humer – 48,651 52,317 85,179 55,775 – – 241,922
Total 494,097 236,859 159,807 174,288 105,398 24,377 1,900 1,196,726
Strike price (CHF) 195.80 229.60 195.00 123.00 129.50 77.80 115.50
Expiry date Jan. 2015 Feb. 2014 Feb. 2013 Feb. 2012 Feb. 2011 Feb. 2010 Feb. 2009
At 31 December 2008 the Chairman of the Board of Directors and members of the Corporate Executive Com-
mittee held PSP awards from the three PSP performance cycles 2006—2008, 2007—2009 and 2008—2010 as
shown in the table below. The terms and vesting conditions of these awards are disclosed in Note 11 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements and additional supplementary information is in the Remuneration Report on
pages 75—85 of the Business Report. Each award will result in between zero and two non-voting equity secu-
rities (Genussscheine), depending upon the achievement of the performance targets and the discretion of the
Board of Directors. The preliminary allocation ratio for the plan 2006—2008 and the total target number
ofawards for all cycles as at 31 December 2008 are shown in the table below.
Roche Performance Share Plan awards held at 31 December 2008
PSP 2006—2008 PSP 2007—2009 PSP 2008—2010
S. Schwan 1,117 1,218 1,965
S. Ayyoubi 550 507 638
W.M. Burns 2,578 3,046 3,276
E. Hunziker 2,750 3,046 3,276
G.A. Keller 1,203 1,370 1,474
J.K.C. Knowles 2,148 2,056 2,211
J. Schwiezer 1,304 1,216 1,965
Total CEC 11,650 12,459 14,805
F.B. Humer 10,365 9,185 –
Total awards granted 22,015 21,644 14,805
Allocation date Feb. 2009 Feb. 2010 Feb. 2011
Estimated allocation at 31 December 2008 0.75:1
Total estimated awards at 31 December 2008 16,513
At 31 December 2007 the Chairman of the Board of Directors and members of the Corporate Executive Com-
mittee at that time held a total of 684,061 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights and Roche Option Plan
awards, and had outstanding a total of 125,224 awards granted under the Roche Performance Share Plan.
www.global-reports.com142
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Holding Ltd, Basel — Appropriation of Available Earnings
Appropriation of Available Earnings
Proposals to the Annual General Meeting | in CHF
2008 2007
Available earnings
Balance brought forward from previous year 1,832,184 520,281
Net profit for the year 3,498,521,585 4,237,700,323
Transfer from free reserve 813,050,000 –
Total available earnings 4,313,403,769 4,238,220,604
Appropriation of available earnings
Distribution of an ordinary dividend of CHF 5.00 gross
per share and non-voting equity security (Genussschein)
as against CHF 4.60 last year (4,312,813,500) (3,967,788,420)
Transfer to free reserve – (268,600,000)
Total appropriation of available earnings (4,312,813,500) (4,236,388,420)
To be carried forward on this account 590,269 1,832,184143
Roche Holding Ltd, Basel — Report of the Statutory Auditor on the Financial Statements Roche Finance Report 2008
Report of the Statutory Auditor
on the Financial Statements
Report of the Statutory Auditor on the Financial Statements
to the Annual General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
As statutory auditor, we have audited the financial statements (income statement, balance sheet and notes
onpages 133 to142) of Roche Holding Ltd for the year ended 31December 2008.
Board of Directors’ Responsibility | The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the finan-
cial statements in accordance with the requirements of Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation.
This responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining an internal control system relevant to
the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
The board of directors is further responsible for selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies and
making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Auditor’s Responsibility | Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audit. Weconducted our audit in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards. Those stan-
dards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial state-
ments are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of
the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those
risk assessments, the auditor considers the internal control system relevant to the entity’s preparation of the
financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for
the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control system. An audit also
includes evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of account-
ing estimates made, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that
the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion | In our opinion, the financial statements for the year ended 31December 2008 comply with Swiss
law and the company’s articles of incorporation.
www.global-reports.com144
Roche Finance Report 2008 Roche Holding Ltd, Basel — Report of the Statutory Auditor on the Financial Statements
Report on Other Legal Requirements
We confirm that we meet the legal requirements on licensing according to the Auditor Oversight Act (AOA)
and independence (article 728 CO and article 11 AOA) and that there are no circumstances incompatible with
our independence.
In accordance with article 728a paragraph 1 item 3 CO and Swiss Auditing Standard 890, we confirm that an
internal control system exists, which has been designed for the preparation of financial statements according
to the instructions of the Board of Directors.
We further confirm that the proposed appropriation of available earnings complies with Swiss law and the
company’s articles of incorporation. We recommend that the financial statements submitted to you be
approved.
KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler SA
John A. Morris François Rouiller
Licensed Audit Expert Licensed Audit Expert
Auditor in Charge
Basel, 29 January 2009www.global-reports.comPublished by Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd statements
4070 Basel, Switzerland This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 11 11 statements. These forward-looking statements may be identi-
Fax +41 (0)61 691 93 91 fied by words such as ‘believes’, ‘expects’, ‘anticipates’,
‘projects’, ‘intends’, ‘should’, ‘seeks’, ‘estimates’, ‘future’ or
similar expressions or by discussion of, among other things,
Media Office
strategy, goals, plans or intentions. Various factors may
Corporate Communications
causeactual results to differ materially in the future from those
4070 Basel, Switzerland
reflected in forward-looking statements contained in this
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 88 88 Annual Report, among others: (1) pricing and product
Fax +41 (0)61 688 27 75 initiatives of competitors; (2) legislative and regulatory devel-
opments and economic conditions; (3) delay or inability in
Investor Relations obtaining regulatory approvals or bringing products to market;
(4) fluctuations in currency exchange rates and general
4070 Basel, Switzerland
financial market conditions; (5) uncertainties in the discovery,
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 88 80
development or marketing of new products or new uses of
Fax +41 (0)61 691 00 14
existing products, including without limitation negative results
of clinical trials or research projects, unexpected side effects
World Wide Web of pipeline or marketed products; (6) increased government
http://www.roche.com pricing pressures; (7) interruptions in production; (8) loss
ofor inability to obtain adequate protection for intellectual
To order publications property rights; (9) litigation; (10) loss of key executives
orother employees; and (11) adverse publicity and news
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 83 39
coverage.
Fax +41 (0)61 688 43 43
E-mail: basel.webmaster@roche.com
The statement regarding earnings per share growth is not
aprofit forecast and should not be interpreted to mean
Next Annual General Meeting: 10 March 2009 thatRoche’s earnings or earnings per share for 2008 or any
subsequent period will necessarily match or exceed the
historical published earnings or earnings per share of Roche.
All trademarks mentioned enjoy legal protection.
The Roche Annual Report is published in German and English.
Printed on non-chlorine bleached, FSC-certified paper.
The Roche Annual Report is issued by
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Basel, Corporate Communications.7000 815
www.global-reports.com