Annual Report 2004
We Innovate HealthcareCover:
Gudrun Schindler knows how important it is for people with
diabetes to be able to monitor their blood glucose levels easily
and reliably — she has type 1 diabetes herself. Besides being
actively involved in a diabetes project in Gambia, Africa, she
has been running a diabetes self-help group for the past 20
years. And for years now Gudrun has been using Accu-Chek
systems from Roche.
Diabetes management is just one of the many areas in which
Roche’s strong focus on research has produced pioneering
innovations and helped make the Group the global market
leader.
(See also page 58)Key figures
Key figures in millions of CHF
Roche Group Continuing businessesa)
% change % change
2004 2003 CHF LC 2004 2003 CHF LC
Sales 31,273 31,220 0 +3 29,522 27,190 +9 +12
Research and development 5,093 4,766 +7 +11 5,053 4,624 +9 +14
EBITDAb) 9,566 8,609 +11 +15 9,231 8,038 +15 +19
Operating profit before exceptional items 7,254 6,268 +16 +20 6,950 5,793 +20 +24
Operating profit 8,979 5,592 +61 +65 6,179 5,520 +12 +16
Financial income (359) (667) –46 (339) (630) –46
Net income before exceptional itemsc) – – – 4,343 3,371 +29
Net income 6,641 3,069 +116 4,339 3,074 +41
EPSd)before exceptional items in CHF – – – 5.07 3.97 +28
EPSd)in CHF 7.81 3.61 +116 5.09 3.62 +41
Research and development as % of sales 16.3 15.3 17.1 17.0
EBITDA as % of sales 30.6 27.6 31.3 29.6
Operating profit before exceptional items
as % of sales 23.2 20.1 23.5 21.3
Effective tax rate % 24.7 29.6 28.4 29.0
Net income as % of sales 21.2 9.8 14.7 11.3
Roche Group Roche Group
31 December 2004 31 December 2003
Net liquidity 11,674 5,908
Total assets 58,076 59,486
Equity and minority interests 33,293 29,164
Debt 8,960 15,287
Equity ratioe) 57% 49%
Debt-equity ratiof) 27% 52%
a) Continuing businesses includes the Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics businesses, treasury and other corporate activities.
Consumer Health (OTC) and Vitamins and Fine Chemicals are reported as discontinuing businesses.
b) EBITDA: Earnings before exceptional items and before interest and other financial income, tax, depreciation and
amortisation, including impairment. This corresponds to operating profit before exceptional items and before depreciation
and amortisation, including impairment.
c) Net income before exceptional items and EPS before exceptional items are calculated as shown on page 143.
d) EPS: Earnings per share and non-voting equity security (diluted).
e) Equity ratio: Equity and minority interests as a percentage of total assets.
f) Debt-equity ratio: Debt as a percentage of equity (including minority interests).
LC = local currencies
Non-voting equity security (Genussschein) price performance in CHF
200
160
120
80
40
0
1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
Roche non-voting equity security (adjusted) Swiss Market Index (rebased)2004 in brief
Sales grow significantly ahead of the market
Net income doubles
Group
• Sales from continuing businesses up 12% in local currencies
• Highest operating profit in Roche history
• Net income doubled to 6.6 billion Swiss francs
• Substantial improvements in equity-to-assets ratio and net liquidity
• Board to propose 18th consecutive dividend increase, 21% to
2.00 Swiss francs per share and non-voting equity security
Pharmaceuticals
• Division gains additional market share; operating profit margin up
significantly
• Market leadership in oncology strengthened; innovative anticancer
medicines Avastin and Tarceva receive first market approvals;
filings submitted for Boniva/Bonviva in osteoporosis
• Sixty-four new molecular entities in the R&D pipeline
Diagnostics
• Sixth straight year of market share gains; significant improvement
in operating profit margin
• Growth significantly above the market average in key segments
• First DNA chip-based test introduced to support more personalised
therapy
Outlook
• Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions both expect continued above-
market growth
Please visit http://www.roche.com for additional information on Roche.
All operating profit margins before exceptional items.
Annual Report 2004 1Innovative solutions spanning the entire
healthcare spectrum
Predisposition Early detection Prevention Diagnosis Therapy Monitoring
At Roche our mission is to improve people’s health and quality of life. As a leading
research-driven healthcare company, Roche develops, produces and markets inno-
vative, high-quality products and services for unmet medical needs. Our capabilities
in diagnostics and pharmaceuticals enable us to innovate across the entire health-
care spectrum, from identifying disease susceptibilities and disease screening
in populations at risk to prevention, diagnosis, therapy and treatment monitoring.
2 Annual Report 2004Table of Contents
Annual Report 2004
Letter from the Chairman 5
Predisposition,AmpliChip CYP450 Test Roche Group 10
Page 8 Group results 10
Outlook 10
Strategy 11
Pharmaceuticals 16
Results 18
Regions 18
Therapeutic areas 18
Early detection,Amplicor HPV Test Research and development 25
Page 14 R&D Pipeline 25
Diagnostics 30
Results 32
Regions 32
Business areas 32
Research and development 36
Key product launches scheduled in 2005 38
Prevention,Pegasys
Page 28 Board of Directors
and Executive Committee 42
Board of Directors 42
Executive Committee 42
Corporate Governance 48
Finance
Diagnosis,Serum Work Area
Page 40 Roche Group 65
Financial Review 65
Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements 76
Notes to the Roche Group
Consolidated Financial Statements 81
Report of the Group Auditors 139
Multi-Year Overview 140
Supplementary Net Income
Therapy,MabThera/Rituxan and EPS Information 143
Page 46 Roche Securities 144
Roche Holding Ltd, Basel 146
Financial Statements 146
Notes to the Financial Statements 148
Appropriation of Available Earnings 150
Report of the Statutory Auditors 151
Monitoring,Accu-Chek Roche – a Global Market Presence 152
Page 58
The Sustainability Report 2004 is published
asa companion volume to the Annual Report.
Annual Report 2004 3Letter from the Chairman
Franz B.Humer,Chairman and ChiefExecutive Officer
2004 was an outstanding year for your company.We care.The Group’s pharmaceuticals and diagnostics
achieved – and in some cases even exceeded – our businesses supply products spanning the entire
ambitious goals for the year.Our operating profit healthcare spectrum,from the early detection and
was the highest ever in Roche’s history.We gained prevention of disease to diagnosis and treatment.
marketing approvals for two breakthrough anti- These two businesses are an excellent strategic fit,
cancer medicines.And we intensified the focus on for both are playing a major role in shaping the
our core capabilities.Thanks to a very strong oper- future of medicine – by contributing to more per-
ating performance and the gain from the sale ofour sonalised therapy,for example.Given the tremen-
consumer health business, net income more than dous need for new and better medical solutions and
doubled, reaching 6.6 billion Swiss francs. At the the explosive progress of science and technology,
Annual General Meeting ofShareholders the Board the outlook for continued growth is good despite
of Directors will propose a dividend increase of today’s challenging marketplace.
21% to 2 Swiss francs per share and non-voting
equity security.Ifapproved,this will be the Group’s Last year both Roche divisions once again posted
eighteenth consecutive dividend increase. sales growth significantly above the market average
and improved their profitability.As a result,com-
Following the sale of the consumer health unit, bined operating profit from continuing businesses
today’s Roche is clearly positioned as a research- (before exceptional items) rose to approximately
driven company focused on innovation in health- 7billion Swiss francs.
Annual Report 2004 5Letter from the Chairman
We reinforced our leadership in oncology and expiries in the pharmaceuticals industry – Rocephin
gained market share in other major therapeutic is the only major Roche drug that will to go off
areas ofinterest,including virology and transplan- patent in the United States in 2005. And because
tation.As a result,Roche has moved up in the global we were successful in moving every one of our
rankings and is now the eighth largest pharma- major research and development projects forward
ceutical company. Our diagnostics business also in 2004,we expect to be adding even more innova-
performed strongly. For the sixth straight year it tive medicines to our portfolio in the years ahead.
grew significantly faster than the market, further Our pharmaceuticals and diagnostics pipelines
extending its market leadership. today rank among the best in the industry,thanks
to our strong financial commitment to R&D – an
Very importantly for the future, both divisions area in which we invest over 5 billion Swiss francs
again scored major successes in bringing innovative annually.
new products to market and advancing the projects
in their research and development (R&D) pipelines. Last year Roche received the prestigious Prix Galien
Tarceva,which was approved last year in the United – the ‘Nobel Prize’for pharmaceutical innovation –
States, is the only medicine in its class that has for its pioneering new HIV/AIDS medicine Fuzeon.
been shown to improve survival in patients with
advanced cancers of the lung or pancreas.Avastin, Roche, together with Genentech and Chugai, is a
a medicine offering a completely new therapeutic world leader in biotechnology.And this is an area
approach to colorectal cancer,received its first mar- where we intend to become even stronger,both in
ket approval in the United States last February and research and development and in production.
by the end ofthe year had generated nearly 700 mil- Over the next several years, for example, we will
lion Swiss francs in sales. Never before has a new invest some 2 billion Swiss francs in expanding
biopharmaceutical been adopted so quickly by the Group’s biotech production capacity in Basel
prescribers.The significance ofthese achievements (Switzerland),Penzberg (Germany),Vacaville (USA)
goes far beyond their commercial impact,for they and Utsunomiya (Japan).
give fresh hope to patients with cancer,which is still
the second leading cause ofdeath in most industri- No company can afford the high level of expendi-
alised countries. ture our projects require or take the commercial
risks they involve unless it is on a solid financial
In addition to gaining our first market approvals footing.Our financial position improved substan-
for these two anticancer medicines, we received tially again last year,thanks to a very strong gross
approval for our lymphoma treatment MabThera/ cash flow of over 9 billion Swiss francs from our
Rituxan and our hepatitis drug Pegasys in new indi- core businesses.Group debt and interest expenses
cations, which means that a significantly larger declined significantly. Net liquidity doubled to
number of patients will now be eligible for treat- almost 12 billion Swiss francs; and the ratio of
ment with these important products.In the Diag- equity to total assets reached 57%.
nostics Division we launched the first Accu-Chek
insulin pump, a state-of-the-art device that will Of course, solid financials alone are not enough
benefit many people living with diabetes.And the for sustainable business success. For the second
launch of our AmpliChip CYP450 Test in Europe year now, our year-end reporting includes a sus-
and the United States is an important step towards tainability report which describes our progress in
more personalised medicine.This DNA chip-based creating value for the environment, the economy
test marks the beginning of a new generation of and society. A respected US business magazine
diagnostic tools that can identify clinically relevant recently included us for the first time in its list of
genetic variations and thus help improve treatment the 100 best companies to work for in the United
outcomes. States.This is an honour shared by only a very few
European companies,and one that our employees
Thanks to the many young products in its portfolio, can be proud of.
Roche has one of the lowest exposures to patent
6 Annual Report 2004Letter from the Chairman
Over the last several years we have been steadily
strengthening corporate governance at Roche.
Bruno Gehrig has been serving on the Board as
Independent Lead Director since last year’s Annual
General Meeting,and recent changes to the struc-
ture of the Corporate Executive Committee have
given us a broader leadership base and established
clear deputising arrangements.
Your company today enjoys a number ofsignificant
competitive advantages and is well equipped for
continued success.I wish to thank you,our share-
holders,for your confidence in our strategy and in
Roche’s management team. And I would also like
tothank our employees for their valuable contribu-
tion to making 2004 a very good year for Roche.
Franz B.Humer
Annual Report 2004 7‘Some medicines work differently for me
than for my sister.’
Sarah Staehelin (8),who lives with her family in Binningen,Switzerland,metabolises certain medications
moreslowly than other children.This means that a ‘normal’dose for another child her age could be toxic for her.
Predisposition Early detection Prevention Diagnosis Therapy Monitoring
8 Annual Report 2004DNA chips – a technology with tremendous
promise
The reason why some of us respond so differently to
the same doses of the same medicines may lie in our
genes. Experts estimate that genetic factors account
for 20–40% of the differences in how individuals
metabolise and respond to drugs.
AmpliChip CYP450 Test enables a comprehensive
analysis of two genes that play a key role in the
metabolism of many widely prescribed drugs, and is
the first DNA chip-based test to be approved for
clinical diagnostic use. The test can thus help predict
on the basis of a patient’s genetic makeup whether
he or she will metabolise certain medicines slowly,
normally or quickly. This information can assist
doctors in prescribing appropriate medication at the
appropriate dose for their patients.
While DNA chips have long since earned a place in
disease research, AmpliChip CYP450 Test signals the
start of a new era in clinical diagnostics, in which
chip-based tests will help doctors ‘tailor’ therapies to
patients’ individual genetic profiles.
Predisposition
Just as our genes can influence the effectiveness of
certain drugs, they can also contribute to the risk
of developing disease. Advances in human genetics
promise to give us new insights into the links between
genes and disease. The more we understand about
these links, the greater the chances that we will one
day be able to use gene-based tests to better identify
predispositions to disease very early on. This knowl-
edge may help doctors and patients to take timely
action to delay, and possibly even prevent, the onset
of disease.
Annual Report 2004 9Roche Group
Group results before,and in the Diagnostics Division the EBITDA
margin advanced 2.7 percentage points to 31.2%.
Sales revenues from the Group’s continuing busi- The Group’s net liquidity nearly doubled, from
nesses rose to 29.5 billion Swiss francs in 2004,an 5.9to 11.7 billion Swiss francs,thanks to the strong
increase of 12% in local currencies (9% in Swiss positive cash flows from the divisions,the sale ofthe
francs); these results exclude the consumer health consumer health (OTC) businesses and the conver-
(OTC) businesses and the vitamins and fine sion ofthe ‘LYONs IV’notes.The ratio ofequity to
chemicals business, which was sold in 2003. Both total assets rose significantly,from 49% to 57%.
Roche divisions,Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics,
grew significantly faster than the global market. The sale ofthe OTC businesses (Roche and Chugai)
Prescription drug sales advanced 13% in local resulted in an exceptional pre-tax gain totalling
currencies (10% in Swiss francs), with positive 2.3billion Swiss francs.
contributions to growth coming from the Roche
prescription subdivision (+8% in local currencies) The Group also completed a major acquisition dur-
and from the strategic alliances with Genentech in ing the year,purchasing Igen in the United States in
the United States (+45% in US dollars) and Chugai early 2004 for a total consideration of 1.8 billion
in Japan (+3% in Japanese yen).In the Diagnostics Swiss francs.
Division sales rose 8% in local currencies (6% in
Swiss francs), led by the division’s diabetes care, Financial income showed a further year-on-year
molecular diagnostics and immunochemistry busi- improvement, with the Group recording a net
nesses,which posted growth significantly above the financial expense of 359 million Swiss francs for
market average. 2004 (compared with an expense of 667 million
Swiss francs in 2003).Group debt was reduced by a
Operating profit from continuing businesses was further 6.3 billion Swiss francs, to 9 billion Swiss
up substantially for the year, advancing 24% in francs, resulting in a decrease in interest expense.
local currencies (20% in Swiss francs) to nearly The conditions are thus now in place for a balanced
7 billion Swiss francs (before exceptional items). financial income in 2005. The conversion and
The operating profit margins in both divisions redemption of debt instruments yielded an excep-
again increased sharply. In the Pharmaceuticals tional pre-tax gain of 908 million Swiss francs.
Division the operating profit margin rose 1.9 per- Including this exceptional gain, financial income
centage points to 25.7%, while the margin in the for 2004 was positive.
Diagnostics Division gained 2.4 percentage points
to reach 21.4%. Strong sales growth, productivity Net income increased 116% (or 3.6 billion Swiss
improvements and the gains realised on the dis- francs) to 6.6 billion Swiss francs thanks to the fur-
posal of non-core products and technologies as ther improvement in the Group’s operating results
Roche continued to realign its product portfolio and the gains from the sale of the OTC businesses
were major contributors to the Group’s improved and the conversion and redemption of debt instru-
profitability.Together these factors more than off- ments.
set increased costs for new product launches,
investments in the Group’s R&D pipeline and
expenditures on in-licensing agreements for prod- Outlook
ucts and technologies. Even excluding gains from
the disposal of products, the operating margin In 2005 the results in the Pharmaceuticals Division
improved significantly. will be influenced by the expiry ofthe US patent for
Rocephin and by costs for product launches in key
Thanks to the strong operating performances ofthe markets and significant development activities.As
Group’s continuing businesses,EBITDA from these an overall outcome we anticipate local-currency
businesses was up 15% to 9.2 billion Swiss francs. sales growth above the world market and an oper-
The EBITDA margin in thePharmaceuticals Divi- ating profit margin (before exceptional items)
sion reached 32.6%,compared with 31.5% the year broadly in line with that for 2004.
10 Annual Report 2004Roche Group
In 2005 Roche Diagnostics expects to outgrow the Our Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions
world market again in terms oflocal-currency sales. and our majority shareholdings in Genentech
The division also expects further progress towards (USA) and Chugai (Japan) are the backbone ofour
its goal ofan operating profit margin (before excep- innovation network. Their capabilities are aug-
tional items) ofaround 23% in 2006. mented by technology collaborations and a constel-
lation of alliances to develop individual products
In addition, Roche expects a balanced financial and entire product portfolios. This decentralised
income in 2005. strategy enables us to combine maximum scope
with flexibility,while also allowing our partners the
necessary entrepreneurial freedom.
Strategy
Pharmaceuticals
The Group
Roche Pharmaceuticals discovers,develops,manu-
Scientific advances, demographic trends and eco- factures and markets clinically differentiated med-
nomic developments are reshaping healthcare and icines offering real added value over existing treat-
the healthcare industry.The explosion ofscientific ments. Efforts are focused on addressing unmet,
knowledge, led by disciplines such as genetics, or inadequately met, medical needs in selected
genomics, proteomics and bioinformatics, is pro- therapeutic areas, and particularly on developing
viding completely new insights into human biology medicines that can help extend the length and
and disease,opening the way for new approaches to improve the quality of people’s lives.We aim to be
diagnosis and treatment. This is good news, since aleader in each ofour areas ofinterest.
we still lack effective treatments for most ofthe dis-
eases that afflict mankind.To a very large extent,of Oncology is a good example ofthe strategic course
course,decisions about what resources to set aside we are pursuing. With five anticancer medicines
and what infrastructure to provide for healthcare that have been shown to improve patient survival,
are public policy issues. Roche is the leader in oncology,a therapeutic area
which for decades saw very little progress despite
Roche recognises these trends and their complex intensive global efforts. Cancer research is one
interplay. In 2004 we continued the process of of our focus areas, and we have a wide range of
restructuring the Roche Group to focus entirely on promising projects in the R&D pipeline.Virology is
our innovation-driven,high-tech pharmaceuticals another key research area where we are very strong
and diagnostics businesses.Because it can exploit and have made important contributions – for
the enormous combined knowledge base of both example in advancing the treatment of hepatitis
these businesses,Roche is positioned to play a lead- and HIV/AIDS.Roche is also a leader in transplan-
ing role in advancing new paradigms in healthcare tation medicine and anemia. And our pipeline is
delivery. Our tailor-made products and services delivering new products to treat osteoporosis,
span the entire healthcare spectrum, from the asthma, rheumatoid arthritis, Alzheimer’s disease
emerging fields of predisposition screening and and diabetes.
early detection to prevention, diagnosis, therapy
and treatment monitoring. Our broad scientific Last year the division invested over 4 billion Swiss
expertise in all these areas helps patients andphysi- francs in research and development – a figure
cians to make earlier and better health and treat- that clearly signals our commitment to remaining
ment decisions. And our comprehensive product a science-driven company. The remarkable depth
portfolio is a clear strategic advantage as we move and quality of our R&D pipeline is widely recog-
steadily towards a new era in which medical nised and provides clear and convincing evidence
care will increasingly be tailored to individual of our strong in-company capabilities and the
patients. productivity ofour partnering relationships.
Annual Report 2004 11Roche Group
Biomarkers point the way
But innovation in research and development is not
to better healthcare enough.To meet our ambitious objectives,we are
also pursuing technology leadership in production
and other areas.Biotechnology,for example,is an
area that has steadily gained in importance at Roche
in recent years. Already, five of Roche’s ten top-
selling medicines are manufactured using biotech-
nology, and combined revenues from biopharma-
ceuticals currently account for about 40% of the
Group’s total prescription drug sales. The ability
to anticipate trends and exploit the potential of
new technologies has long been one of Roche’s
strengths.Our majority interest in the California-
based biotech pioneer Genentech – now one of
the biggest and most successful companies in
Scientists at Roche Pharmaceuticals and Roche the industry – dates all the way back to 1990, for
Diagnostics are working together to develop bio- example.In addition,we own one ofEurope’s most
markers that can be used to diagnose diseases, important biotech research and manufacturing
identify the patients most likely to respond to sites,in Penzberg (Germany).
a particular treatment and help develop new
drugs. Diagnostics
Biomarkers are biological molecules that provide Diagnostic tools and tests can be expected to play
genetic and other information on metabolic or disease an increasingly important role in ensuring that
processes. They have tremendous potential in diag- patients are correctly diagnosed as early as possible
nostics and in the search for better medicines. and receive the best available treatment – and thus
in helping to optimise the use oflimited healthcare
The Roche Biomarker Program is a key part of the resources.
Group’s strategy of linking pharmaceutical and diag-
nostics expertise for better, more targeted healthcare. The diagnostics industry thus has a vital contribu-
Its aim is to find biomarkers that reveal the presence tion to make to keeping medical care affordable.On
of disease before clinical signs or symptoms appear; average,laboratory services account for only about
differentiate between disease subtypes or related 1% of total healthcare spending.Yet the informa-
conditions; help identify patient subgroups that differ tion these services provide has tremendous poten-
in their responses to therapy; or provide leads to tial for making healthcare delivery as a whole more
potential drug targets. Biomarker tests will improve efficient and effective, which will mean a signifi-
our ability to diagnose disease, open up new pos- cantly better cost-benefit ratio for the other 99% of
sibilities for prevention and help in developing expenditure. Roche Diagnostics is working today
medicines that are safer, work better and are more to turn these potential gains into reality and help
cost-effective. relieve the pressure on health budgets.
Roche already markets tests that tell doctors if anti- Roche is the only company supplying products and
viral treatment is having the desired effect or if a services to all segments of the in-vitro diagnostics
patient can tolerate certain medications and at what market, from research institutions, hospitals and
dosage. The Group’s combined expertise in discover- commercial laboratories to patients. Our novel
ing and developing novel diagnostic tests and med- analytical systems, featuring powerful workflow
icines puts it at the forefront of the emerging field of automation capabilities,are at the cutting edge of
personalised medicine. innovation in laboratory technology.And our con-
nectivity solutions and data management systems
are further examples of state-of-the-art products
12 Annual Report 2004Roche Group
from Roche.By helping health professionals to cope
with the flood of data from increasingly complex
tests,they contribute to sounder therapeutic deci-
sion-making.
The increasing role of patients in managing their
own health also has far-reaching implications for
the diagnostics industry.As that role continues to
grow,so will demand for handy,easy-to-use instru-
ments that can not only match the precision and
accuracy of a laboratory but also make treatment
recommendations. This is what we mean by the
trend towards ‘actionable health information’.
Scientific research is providing ever deeper insights
into the causes of disease.In addition to enabling
faster and more accurate diagnoses, these insights
are revealing ways of identifying risk factors and
detecting the presence ofdisease much earlier than
is possible today.This will expand opportunities to
start preventive treatment or other measures at a
stage when the onset ofdisease can still be avoided.
At the same time our understanding ofthe reasons
why medicines are not equally effective in all
patients with the same disease is steadily increasing.
In future DNA-based tests will help identify
patients who are unlikely to respond to certain
medicines,could have adverse reactions to them or
could simply benefit from a dose adjustment.As a
result,physicians will be able to chose safer,more
effective options when writing prescriptions for
their patients.
Developing medicines, tests and systems to meet
today’s and tomorrow’s needs requires extensive
know-how and sizeable investments,and Roche is
prepared to make these investments.
As a highly focused healthcare company, Roche is
well equipped to meet the challenges ofa changing
marketplace and in an excellent position to take
advantage of new opportunities for growth. Our
combined know-how in diagnostics and therapeu-
tics enables us to create sustainable value for
patients,physicians and healthcare systems.
Annual Report 2004 13Greater certainty in assessing cervical cancer
risk
Cervical cancer is the second leading cause of death
from cancer in women. It is almost always triggered by
certain forms of the human papillomavirus (HPV).
Seeing a gynecologist for regular screening tests
helps to detect HPV early, but the tests available to
date have clear limitations. A Pap test alone often
delivers inconclusive or ambiguous results and fails in
some 20% of cases to detect precancerous condi-
tions. Compared to the Pap test, Amplicor HPV Test, a
new molecular diagnostic assay developed by Roche
and launched in Europe in 2004, provides a signifi-
cantly more accurate indication of risk. One practical
benefit is that from now on healthy women may be
spared the anxiety of waiting for the results of addi-
tional tests. And more importantly, it means that an
increased number of patients may start receiving
appropriate care at an early stage. Early diagnosis of
cervical cancer gives patients an almost 100% chance
of recovery.
Early detection
The earlier a disease is detected, the better the
chances of treating it effectively. Screening examina-
tions increase the likelihood of spotting the first signs
of disease and providing timely therapy. The benefits
of targeted screening are particularly evident with
respect to high-risk groups, since early diagnoses not
only help patients but also contribute to controlling
healthcare costs.
14 Annual Report 2004‘When available in the US, this HPV test
will be important in triaging abnormal
Pap smears and screening.’
Warner K.Huh (35),a physician and respected cancer researcher who lives in Birmingham (Alabama),USA,
valuesthe potential importance ofthe new Amplicor test for human papillomavirus (HPV).
Predisposition Early detection Prevention Diagnosis Therapy Monitoring
Annual Report 2004 15Pharmaceuticals Division in brief
Pharma Executive Committee since 1 January 2005
William M. Burns CEO Division Roche Pharmaceuticals
George Abercrombie North America
Jennifer Allerton Informatics
Eduard Holdener Development
Peter Hug Partnering
Jonathan K.C. Knowles Research
Dominic Moorhead Finance and Controlling
Paul Newton-Syms Human Resources
Charles Sabbah Strategic Marketing
Claude Schreiner Western Europe
Jan van Koeveringe Technical Operations
Sales in millions of CHF
2004 21,695
2003 19,781
2002 17,294
Operating profit before exceptional items in millions of CHF
2004 5,573
2003 4,698
2002 3,894
Number of employees
2004 45,108
2003 44,535
2002 42,795
Key figures
% change % change in
In millions of CHF in CHF local currencies As % of sales
Sales 21,695 10 13 100
– Roche prescription 13,970 5 8 64
– Genentech prescription 4,522 34 45 21
– Chugai prescription 3,203 1 3 15
EBITDA 7,079 14 18 32.6
Operating profit1) 5,573 19 23 25.7
Research and development 4,355 12 17 20.1
1) Before exceptional items.
16 Annual Report 2004Pharmaceuticals
‘In 2004 Roche Pharmaceuticals extended the Group’s market leadership in
oncology, helped by outstanding clinical data on products such as MabThera/
Rituxan, Avastin and Tarceva. The launch of Avastin in the United States,
its first market, has been a resounding success. Tarceva, which received its
first marketing approval in the United States late in the year, is the only drug
in its class to demonstrate survival benefit in late-stage lung cancer and pan-
creatic cancer. With our strong portfolio of virology products – also backed
by a growing body of solid data – we are bringing benefits to more and more
patients with hepatitis, HIV/AIDS and influenza. These developments show
that we are successfully translating cutting-edge R&D into clinically differen-
tiated products. This is also good business: six of our prescription medicines
now exceed one billion Swiss francs in revenues.’
William M.Burns,CEO Division Roche Pharmaceuticals
Annual Report 2004 17Pharmaceuticals
Results
Sales by region
Roche Pharmaceuticals – including Genentech and
Chugai – continued to deliver strong performance
in 2004, recording total sales of 21,695 million
Swiss francs. This represents an increase over the Latin America 6%
previous year of13% in local currencies,well ahead Japan 15%
of the global market. Once again, growth was Others 9%
driven by the Group’s oncology,virology and trans-
plantation franchises. Operating profit (before
exceptional items) increased further, advancing Europe 32%
23% in local currencies and 19% in Swiss francs to North America 38%
5,573 million Swiss francs.Despite a sustained high
level of investment in R&D and product launch
activities, the division posted another significant
increase in profitability, recording an operating
profit margin (before exceptional items) of25.7%,
compared with 23.8% in 2003. The operating Therapeutic areas
margin also increased when all product in- and
out-licensing activities are excluded. EBITDA Oncology
totalled 7,079 million Swiss francs or 32.6% of
sales,compared with 31.5% the previous year.The While cancer is still one ofthe main causes ofdeath
sale of Roche’s non-prescription medicines busi- in industrialised countries, recent years have seen
ness to Bayer and ofChugai’s OTC business to Lion major treatment advances. A particularly promis-
Corporation was completed at the end of2004. ing approach is targeted cancer therapy, which
specifically attacks the processes driving cancerous
cells while leaving healthy cells unharmed. The
Regions Roche Group is at the forefront ofthis innovation.
All regions contributed to growth in 2004.Sales by In 2004 the Roche Group’s oncology portfolio2)
Roche and Genentech in North America were up earned revenues of 7.7 billion Swiss francs and
20%1),well ahead of the market (8%),fuelled pri- posted a gain of 32%. Oncology products now
marily by strong demand for Avastin, established account for 35% of the Group’s total prescription
oncology brands and the hepatitis combination drug sales. As a result of this very strong perfor-
Pegasys and Copegus. The oncology and hepatitis mance we further expanded our market share
franchises were also the main contributors to andconsolidated our global lead in this important
above-market growth in Europe (12% vs a 7% therapeutic area.Roche is the only pharmaceuticals
market average).Sales by Chugai in Japan rose 3%, group offering five anticancer medicines that can
compared with local market growth of2%.In Latin help extend the lives of cancer patients, together
America the division recorded double-digit sales with an unparalleled portfolio of supportive care
growth against a background of steady market products that can improve the quality oflife ofpeo-
recovery.Growth in the markets ofthe Asia–Pacific ple with cancer.
region was strong, while in the Middle East and
Africa it held up well despite political and economic
turbulence.
1) All growth rates are based on local currencies.
2) Oncology portfolio: MabThera/Rituxan, Herceptin, Avastin,
Xeloda, Tarceva, Bondronat, Kytril, Furtulon, Neupogen, Neo-
Recormon (29%), Roferon-A (85%), Neutrogin, Picibanil.
18 Annual Report 2004Pharmaceuticals
Biotech production: therapeu-
Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL), a group of
malignancies of the lymphatic system, affects tic proteins made to order
approximately 1.5 million people worldwide and
claims an estimated 300,000 lives each year.
MabThera/Rituxan, the world’s first therapeutic
monoclonal antibody for indolent and aggressive
forms of NHL, delivered strong growth in 2004,
particularly in Europe and Japan.Sales ofthe prod-
uct benefited from its approval last August in
Europe for first-line use in indolent NHL;new data
show a survival benefit for this group ofpatients.In
addition, two large clinical trials have shown that
maintenance treatment with MabThera/Rituxan
over two years is highly effective in patients with
indolent NHL.
Biotechnology and biopharmaceuticals have led
Breast cancer is the most common cancer among to therapeutic breakthroughs in a number of dis-
women worldwide. Herceptin, a monoclonal anti- eases, notably cancer. Roche is at the forefront
body for the targeted treatment of breast cancer,is of advances in biotechnology and aims to be a
tailored to a subgroup ofpatients with a particularly world leader in biopharmaceutical R&D, produc-
aggressive type of tumour (HER2-positive) that tion and marketing.
accounts for approximately 20–30% of all breast
cancers.In 2004 Herceptin generated sales ofalmost The Roche Group, including Genentech and Chugai,
1.5 billion Swiss francs,with solid gains in all major already owns almost a third of the world’s biophar-
markets.Adoption of the drug as first-line therapy maceutical manufacturing capacity and is currently
received a major boost in June,when the combina- building new facilities in Basel (Switzerland), Penzberg
tion of Herceptin plus Taxotere was approved for (Germany), Vacaville (USA) and Utsunomiya (Japan)
this indication in the European Union. Clinical at a cost of some 2 billion Swiss francs. The new plants
studies have shown that Herceptin in combination will help build Roche’s leadership in biotechnology
with Taxotere or Taxol significantly prolongs sur- and ensure that sufficient manufacturing capacity is
vival ofpatients with advanced breast cancer.Ongo- available to meet expected demand for the Group’s
ing clinical development is aimed at establishing new medicines.
thedrug in combination with hormonal treatment
and as adjuvant therapy for early breast cancer. Biotech manufacturing techniques harness the natu-
ral biological processes of living cells to make use-
Total sales ofXeloda,for colorectal and breast can- fulproducts – products like the innovative anticancer
cer, rose 7% in 2004, with growth outside the medicines Avastin and Herceptin, for example. These
United States an impressive 31%. Although sales biopharmaceuticals, which belong to a group of ther-
growth in the United States was impacted in the apeutic proteins known as monoclonal antibodies, are
first half of the year by a number of important produced with the help of cells that have been genet-
changes in the marketplace, prescription figures ically modified using recombinant DNA techniques.
continued to show increasing adoption ofthe prod- The cells are cultured (grown) in special fermenters
uct.Global sales are expected to accelerate in 2005, called bioreactors, and as they grow and multiply they
helped by new clinical data.In August Roche filed secrete the desired protein (antibody) into the culture
applications with the EU and US authorities for medium. The product is ‘harvested’ by separating the
approval of Xeloda in a new indication, adjuvant antibody from the biomass (cells, culture medium and
treatment of colon cancer patients following waste products), concentrated and purified. It is then
surgery. Because it is taken orally, Xeloda is a far ready for formulation into the final pharmaceutical
more convenient option for these patients than the product.
injectable regimens currently available.
Annual Report 2004 19Pharmaceuticals
Avastin shuts down blood
Sales by therapeutic area
supply to tumours
Transplantation 8%
Dermatology 2%
Metabolic disorders 8%
Central nervous system 5%
Infectious diseases 7%
Cardiovascular
diseases 8%
Inflammatory diseases/
bone diseases 3%
Virology 11%
Others 5%
Tumours, like other body tissues, need a con-
Anemia 8%
stant supply of oxygen and nutrients. They get
Oncology 35%
this by creating their own network of blood
vessels through a process called angiogenesis.
Avastin is the first medicine that specifically
inhibits tumour angiogenesis.
In February Genentech received approval for
Avastin in the United States for use in combination By targeting a protein called vascular endothelial
with chemotherapy in patients with previously growth factor (VEGF), a key mediator of tumour
untreated metastatic cancer ofthe colon or rectum. angiogenesis, Avastin interferes with the blood supply
After an extremely successful launch, demand for that is essential for the growth of cancers and their
the product in its first market has been strong, spread (metastasis) to other parts of the body.
resulting in sales ofalmost 700 million Swiss francs
in less than 12 months.In January 2005 Avastin also Although the importance of angiogenesis for cancer
received marketing approval in the EU.In Decem- growth had long been recognised, it wasn’t until 1989
ber 2004 Avastin was approved in Switzerland,which that scientists at Genentech established VEGF’s criti-
also opens the way to registration of the medicine cal role in promoting the formation of new blood ves-
in over 90 countries worldwide that are guided by sels in tumours. Four years later they demonstrated
Swiss regulatory decisions in their own review pro- that a specific anti-VEGF antibody could suppress
cesses.Clinical trials have repeatedly demonstrated tumour growth, opening the way to development of
that Avastin,when added to chemotherapy,signifi- Avastin, the world’s first approved anti-angiogenic
cantly prolongs survival in patients with metastatic cancer treatment.
colorectal cancer, regardless of the chemotherapy
used. Data released in November showed that Currently approved in the US, EU, Switzerland and
the product also significantly improves median Israel in combination with chemotherapy for patients
survival in patients with relapsed metastatic colon with metastatic cancer of the colon or rectum, Avastin
cancer.(See also Research and development,p.26.) has broad potential for use in a number of solid
tumours. This groundbreaking new biopharmaceuti-
Tarceva,a breakthrough anticancer drug developed cal is further testimony to the success of Roche and
by Genentech,OSI Pharmaceuticals and Roche,was Genentech’s long-standing alliance.
approved by the US Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) in November as monotherapy for advanced
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Approval,
which followed a priority review,was based on the
results of a phase III trial showing that the drug
20 Annual Report 2004Pharmaceuticals
Major product approvals and launches in 20041)
Product Generic name Indication Country
Avastin bevacizumab first-line treatment, in combination with chemotherapy, USA,
of metastatic colorectal cancer Switzerland, EU
Boniva/Bonviva ibandronate treatment and prevention of osteoporosis, EU, Switzerland
2.5 mg daily tablet
Herceptin trastuzumab metastatic breast cancer, in combination with Taxotere EU, Switzerland
Invirase saquinavir HIV disease, 500 mg formulation USA
MabThera/Rituxan rituximab first-line treatment of indolent non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma EU, Switzerland
NeoRecormon epoetin beta anemia indications, 30,000 IU prefilled syringe EU, Switzerland
Pegasys peginterferon alfa-2a hepatitis C, prefilled syringe USA
hepatitis B Switzerland
hepatitis C, normal ALT EU
Tarceva erlotinib second- or third-line treatment of advanced USA
non-small cell lung cancer
Xenical orlistat prevention of type 2 diabetes (XENDOS data) EU, USA
1) Includes supplemental indications; updated to end of January 2005.
extends overall survival in patients with pretreated ifleft untreated.The global market for anti-anemia
lung cancer.An application for marketing authori- products is currently estimated to be worth 13.3
sation is being evaluated by the EU authorities. billion Swiss francs.
Data from another phase III study showed that
Tarceva increases the survival of patients with Against a background of continued price pressure
metastatic pancreatic cancer when added to in the anemia market as a whole, Roche’s Neo-
chemotherapy. Tarceva is currently being investi- Recormon and Chugai’s Epogin posted combined
gated in a variety of malignant diseases (see sales of 2.1 billion Swiss francs. They remain the
Research and development,p.26). leading products for the treatment ofrenal anemia
in their respective markets.Sales of NeoRecormon
Kytril, used to control nausea and vomiting in in cancer-related anemia grew by 14%, driven by
patients receiving chemo- or radiation therapy or the successful launch and penetration of a new
who have undergone surgery,continued to perform once-weekly 30,000 IU pre-filled syringe that offers
well in a highly competitive marketplace. patients high efficacy plus convenient dosing.
Sales ofBondronat grew strongly in 2004,helped by Transplantation
continued rollout of the drug in Europe and other
markets following its approval for the prevention of Over 50,000 people worldwide receive life-saving
skeletal events in patients with breast cancer and organ transplants each year.Thanks to advances in
bone metastases. surgical procedures and immunosuppressive ther-
apy to prevent organ rejection, transplant recipi-
Anemia ents can now survive for many years with their new
organs.With long-term immunosuppressant treat-
Anemia occurs when the number ofred blood cells ment now routine,doctors are reducing the use of
falls below normal, starving organs and tissues of relatively toxic immunosuppressant drugs in favour
oxygen. It is seen in over 80% of patients with of medications with minimal toxicity, such as
impaired renal function due to chronic kidney dis- CellCept.
ease and in up to 60% ofpatients with cancer.The
potential long-term effects of anemia include car- Roche is now the global market leader in transplan-
diovascular disease in renal patients and reduced tation medicines. In 2004 the Group’s transplan-
survival in patients with cancer.Anemia can be fatal tation portfolio posted sales of 1.8 billion Swiss
Annual Report 2004 21Pharmaceuticals
Top-selling products in 2004
Sales % change in
Product Generic name Indication in millions of CHF local currencies
MabThera/Rituxan1) rituximab non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma 3,378 28
NeoRecormon, Epogin2) epoetin beta anemia 2,082 1
Pegasys3)+ Copegus peginterferon alfa-2a hepatitis B and C 1,562 72
+ ribavirin
Herceptin1) trastuzumab metastatic breast cancer 1,435 26
CellCept mycophenolate mofetil transplantation 1,403 10
Rocephin3) ceftriaxone bacterial infections 1,302 0
Avastin1) bevacizumab metastatic colorectal cancer 690 –
Xenical orlistat weight loss, weight control 593 –2
Xeloda3) capecitabine colorectal or breast cancer 534 7
Kytril3) granisetron nausea and vomiting induced by chemotherapy 457 8
or radiation therapy or following surgery
Nutropin4), Protropin4) somatropin, somatrem growth hormone deficiency 448 9
Dilatrend carvedilol chronic heart failure, hypertension, 361 –8
coronary artery disease
Pulmozyme4) dornase alfa/DNase cystic fibrosis 338 8
Tamiflu3) oseltamivir treatment and prevention of influenza A and B 330 –22
Cymevene, Valcyte ganciclovir, cytomegalovirus infection 329 22
valganciclovir
Neutrogin2) lenograstim neutropenia associated with chemotherapy 322 2
Roaccutane/Accutane isotretinoin severe acne 316 –37
Activase4), TNKase4) alteplase, tenecteplase myocardial infarction 275 6
Madopar levodopa + benserazide Parkinson’s disease 245 2
1) Jointly marketed by Roche, Genentech and Chugai.
2) Marketed by Chugai.
3) Jointly marketed by Roche and Chugai.
4) Jointly marketed by Roche and Genentech.
francs, an increase of 11%, with Roche’s flagship cytomegalovirus infection (CMV).Valcyte has now
transplantation drug CellCept showing solid been launched in most major markets in its new
growth.Despite the entry of new competitors,the indication,the prevention ofCMV disease in solid
product’s share of the total immunosuppressant organ transplant patients. It also remains the
market remains a strong 29%. While CellCept leading drug for the treatment of CMV retinitis in
remains the leading branded immunosuppressant HIV patients.
in the United States,with total prescriptions up by
24%,US sales were negatively impacted in the sec- Virology
ond half of the year by changes in wholesaler buy-
ing patterns, the effects of which are expected to The liver is one of the body’s most important
disappear during the first half of 2005. Sales of organs, performing over 500 vital functions. The
Zenapax,used in conjunction with CellCept to pre- hepatitis B and C viruses (HBV,HCV) both cause
vent acute kidney transplant rejection, increased acute and chronic liver disease,potentially leading
2% to 41 million Swiss francs. to liver failure, cirrhosis and cancer. Worldwide,
350 million people are thought to be chronically
Combined sales of Valcyte and Cymevene showed infected with HBV, a highly infectious pathogen
solid growth of 22% in 2004 as Valcyte became that is responsible for an estimated 1 million deaths
the global market leader for the prevention of annually.More than 170 million people around the
22 Annual Report 2004Pharmaceuticals
Breakthrough HIV medicine
world are infected with HCV,and 3 to 4 million new
cases occur each year.Hepatitis C is the main reason tackles drug resistance
for liver transplantation.
In 2004 Roche enhanced its leadership position in
hepatitis C, with sales of its combination therapy
Pegasys plus Copegus advancing to over 1.5 billion
Swiss francs.At year end Pegasys accounted for over
60% ofboth the US and global pegylated interferon
markets. During the year new data demonstrated
the significant benefits of Pegasys plus Copegus
in two hepatitis C patient subgroups: patients co-
infected with HIV, and patients with persistently
normal liver enzymes (normal ALT), a subgroup
that would traditionally not be considered for treat-
ment. Roche received marketing authorisation in Developed jointly by Roche and Trimeris, Fuzeon
Europe for the normal ALT indication in Novem- is the first major innovation in HIV treatment
ber. Regulatory filings for approval of the combi- since 1996. Its novel mechanism of action
nation in HIV–HCV co-infection were submitted makes it effective even against strains of the
in mid-2004 in the European Union and in the virus that are resistant to other drugs.
United States.We received apositive opinion from
the EU authorities in December,and the US filing Drug resistance is a major challenge to the effective
has been granted priority review.Roche has com- treatment of HIV. One study reports that up to 50% of
pleted its development programme for Pegasys in patients on antiretroviral treatment in North America
chronic hepatitis B,with extensive clinical trial data are infected with a strain of the virus that is resistant
supporting its use as a first-line treatment of the to one or more anti-HIV drugs. New medicines to
disease.Marketing applications have now been filed combat drug-resistant HIV are thus urgently needed.
in Europe, the United States and elsewhere. In
January 2005 the EU authorities recommended Fuzeon is helping to address this need. It is the first
approval.Following approvals in Asia,where hep- of a new class of drugs that inhibit HIV replication
atitis B is particularly prevalent,and in December andits devastating effects on the immune system by
in Switzerland,Pegasys has become the first pegy- blocking the virus before it can enter human immune
lated interferon to have this indication anywhere in cells. Treatment with subcutaneous Fuzeon signifi-
the world. cantly reduces viral load and increases the number of
healthy immune cells, enhancing patient well-being
HIV is a worldwide pandemic. The World Health and quality of life. This advance in HIV treatment won
Organization estimates that over 39 million people, the prestigious International Prix Galien for pharma-
including more than 2 million children,were living ceutical innovation in 2004.
with HIV/AIDS at the end of 2004.For almost 20
years Roche’s innovative drugs and diagnostic tests Roche has launched comprehensive nurse-to-patient
have placed it at the forefront of efforts to combat and patient-to-patient support initiatives to help
HIV infection and AIDS, and we will continue coach patients through the first three critical months
working to improve the standard of HIV care of therapy, by which time the dramatic benefits of
worldwide.For information on Roche’s HIV/AIDS Fuzeon can be seen and self-injection becomes rou-
initiatives, see our Sustainability Report or visit tine.
www.roche.com.
Sales ofFuzeon,for the treament ofHIV, improved
steadily in 2004,reaching 168 million Swiss francs
at year end. Roche and Trimeris are working to
Annual Report 2004 23Pharmaceuticals
Boniva makes osteoporosis
accelerate the uptake of Fuzeon through major
physician and patient education initiatives.Strong treatment easier to take
96-week treatment data were presented during the
year,confirming the virological and immunological
benefits and good tolerability of long-term treat-
ment with Fuzeon.These findings and the inclusion
of48-week treatment data in the product’s US and
EU labels support the case for expanded use ofthe
drug.In 2004 Fuzeon was awarded the prestigious
International Prix Galien.
Primary care
Global sales ofXenical were down slightly in a mar-
ket that is still in overall decline.While US sales fell
significantly, the product experienced steady Pharmaceutical innovation isn’t just about find-
growth elsewhere. In September the European ing new drugs. It can also mean making effec-
Commission approved removal of the 2.5 kg pre- tive drugs easier for patients to use. When
treatment weight-loss requirement from the the disease involved is common, chronic, and
product’s EU label, based on extensive long-term undertreated, this type of innovation can have
data supporting the drug’s efficacy and safety. wide-reaching benefits.
Based on the results of the landmark XENDOS
study, the US and EU authorities approved label Osteoporosis causes a gradual loss of bone density,
changes stating that Xenical can delay the onset of making bones brittle and prone to break. It affects
(US) or reduce the risk of developing (EU) type 2 millions of people worldwide, especially women after
diabetes in obese patients. the menopause, with broken vertrebrae and hips
among its potential consequences. Besides the toll it
Following patent expiries in several major Euro- inflicts on patients, osteoporosis has a major impact
pean markets in April 2004,generic erosion led to a on healthcare systems. People who break a hip, for
decline in sales ofDilatrend,a leading beta blocking example, usually spend 20–30 days in hospital.
agent for hypertension, chronic heart failure and
coronary artery disease. Although there is no cure for osteoporosis, treatment
with current bisphosphonates can halt or reverse
Due to a relatively mild influenza season, sales of bone loss and reduce the risk of fractures. However,
Tamiflu declined despite initial orders ofpandemic using these medicines is complicated: patients must
readiness supplies. Preclinical tests have shown take a daily or weekly tablet in the morning, on an
Tamiflu to be effective against the highly patho- empty stomach, then remain upright and not eat for
genic human and avian H5N1 influenza virus,con- half an hour. Currently, around 50% of osteoporosis
sidered the most likely source ofa pandemic strain. patients stop therapy in the first six months and thus
Experts have called on governments to establish derive little or no benefit.
stockpiles of Tamiflu in readiness for a possible
pandemic.Roche is working with a number ofgov- Boniva/Bonviva, Roche’s new bisphosphonate and
ernments to determine requirements.It has already the first once-monthly tablet for osteoporosis, should
increased Tamiflu production capacity to meet make it much easier for patients to stay on treatment,
additional demand and plans to increase it again thus minimising the risk of fractures. And, because
in2005. some patients are unable to tolerate oral bisphos-
phonates, Roche is developing Bonviva injections so
Boniva/Bonviva is being developed as the first that even more people can benefit from this innova-
once-monthly oral treatment for postmenopausal tive drug.
osteoporosis.One-year data from a two-year multi-
24 Annual Report 2004R&D pipeline: all major development projects successfully brought forward
Therapeutic area ProjectID Project/product (generic name) Pharmacological class Indication Phase 0 Phase I Phase II Phase III Filed
Hematology and R744 CERA continuous erythropoietin receptor activator renal anemia
nephrology R744 CERA continuous erythropoietin receptor activator cancer-related anemia
Genitourinary diseases R1484 GPCR modulator stress urinary incontinence
R873 GPCR agonist sexual dysfunction
Inflammatory, autoimmune R1051) MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody autoimmune diseases (lupus nephritis)
and bone diseases R1051) MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis
R1051) MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody refractory rheumatoid arthritis (TNF non-responders)
R1295 integrin antagonist autoimmune diseases (rheumatoid arthritis,
multiple sclerosis)
R1503 kinase inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis
R1541 integrin antagonist inflammatory bowel disease
R15692) MRA (tocilizumab) humanised anti-IL-6 receptor Mab systemic onset juvenile idiopathic arthritis
R15692) MRA (tocilizumab) humanised anti-IL-6 receptor Mab rheumatoid arthritis
R15943) humanised anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody rheumatoid arthritis
R4844) Boniva/Bonviva (ibandronate) bisphosphonate treatment and prevention of osteoporosis
Cardiovascular and R1438 enzyme inhibitor type 2 diabetes
metabolic diseases R1439 nuclear receptor modulator type 2 diabetes
R1440 enzyme modulator type 2 diabetes
R1498 nuclear receptor modulator type 2 diabetes
R1499 enzyme inhibitor type 2 diabetes
R15935) nuclear receptor modulator dyslipidemia
R212 Xenical (orlistat) lipase inhibitor obesity – development in Japan
R212 Xenical (orlistat) lipase inhibitor obesity – label amendments
R483 Insulin sensitiser insulin sensitiser type 2 diabetes
R1664 dyslipidemia
R16586) CETP inhibitor dyslipidemia
Neurological and R1485 GPCR modulator Alzheimer’s disease
psychiatric diseases R1500 enzyme inhibitor Alzheimer’s disease
R15337) PDE4 inhibitor Alzheimer’s disease
R1576 GPCR modulator depression
R1577 enzyme inhibitor Alzheimer’s disease
R16278) PDE4 inhibitor Alzheimer’s disease
R673 NK1 GPCR modulator depression and anxiety
R1450 Alzheimer’s disease
R1678 schizophrenia
R1661 anxiety
Oncology R1051) MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody chronic lymphocytic leukemia (1st line/relapsed)
R1051) MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody maintenance indolent NHL
R12739) Omnitarg (pertuzumab) anti-HER2 monoclonal antibody solid tumours (breast cancer, lung cancer, ovarian cancer,
prostate cancer)
R141510) Tarceva (erlotinib) EGFR inhibitor NSCLC (2nd/3rd line)
R141510) Tarceva (erlotinib) EGFR inhibitor NSCLC (1st line) – combination with chemotherapy
R141510) Tarceva (erlotinib) EGFR inhibitor adjuvant NSCLC
R141510) Tarceva (erlotinib) EGFR inhibitor pancreatic cancer
R141510) Tarceva (erlotinib) EGFR inhibitor glioblastoma multiforme
R141510) Tarceva (erlotinib) EGFR inhibitor NSCLC (2nd line) – combination with Avastin
R1454 enzyme inhibitor solid tumours
R149211) enzyme inhibitor (epothilone D) solid tumours
R153612) enzyme inhibitor solid tumours
R155013) monoclonal antibody metastatic breast cancer
R155914) enzyme inhibitor solid tumours
R15943) humanised anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody hematologic malignancies
R164515) enzyme inhibitor (epothilone D) solid tumours
R340 Xeloda (capecitabine) fluoropyrimidine metastatic colon cancer (1st and 2nd line) –
combination treatment
R340 Xeloda (capecitabine) fluoropyrimidine adjuvant colon cancer – combination treatment
R340 Xeloda (capecitabine) fluoropyrimidine adjuvant colon cancer – monotherapy
R340 Xeloda (capecitabine) fluoropyrimidine adjuvant breast cancer
R4359) Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody metastatic colorectal cancer (1st line)
R4359) Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody adjuvant colon cancer
R4359) Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody pancreatic cancer
R4359) A ti (b i b) tiVEGF l l tib d l ll iR4359) Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody renal cell carcinoma
R4359) Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody NSCLC
R4359) Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody metastatic breast cancer
R4359) Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody ovarian cancer (1st line/refractory)
R547 enzyme inhibitor solid tumours
R5979) Herceptin (trastuzumab) anti-HER2 monoclonal antibody adjuvant breast cancer
R5979) Herceptin (trastuzumab) anti-HER2 monoclonal antibody metastatic breast cancer – combination with hormone
therapy
R5979) Herceptin (trastuzumab) anti-HER2 monoclonal antibody advanced gastric cancer
R925 Bondronat (ibandronate) bisphosphonate metastatic bone pain in all tumour types
R1507 solid tumours
R769 oncology
R1530 oncology
Respiratory diseases R356) (daclizumab) anti-CD25 monoclonal antibody asthma
R411 dual integrin antagonist asthma
R667 nuclear receptor agonist emphysema
Viral and other R155817) antibiotic bacterial infection
infectious diseases R1626 polymerase inhibitor hepatitis C
R420 Pegasys peginterferon alfa-2a chronic hepatitis B
R56 Invirase (saquinavir) protease inhibitor HIV, 500 mg tablet
Participation through Lucentis18) Lucentis (ranibizumab) Fab fragment to anti-VEGF age-related macular degeneration
Genentech (formerly AMD Fab)
Xolair19) Xolair (omalizumab) anti-IgE antibody pediatric asthma
peanut allergy
Participation through BO-653 anti-oxidant coronary heart disease
Chugai CHS13340 recombinant parathyroid hormone osteoporosis
ED-71 vitamin D derivative osteoporosis
CAL anti-PTHrP Mab bone metastases
CHC12103 polyglutamateTXL solid tumours (ovarian cancer, NSCLC)
Femara Femara (letrozole) aromatase inhibitor breast cancer
Antevas Antevas radical scavenger subarachnoid hemorrhage
GM-611 motilin agonist gastroparesis, irritable bowel syndrome
VAL liver regenerator post hepatectomy
Opt-in opportunities BR3-FC20) fusion protein rheumatoid arthritis
Genentech R10520) MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody multiple sclerosis/ANCA associated vasculitis, SLE
G-02485621) topical hedgehog antagonist basal cell carcinoma
PRO176222) APO2L/TRAIL cancer
VEGF VEGF recombinant VEGF diabetic foot ulcers
(PRO128115)
Opt-in opportunities BAL855723) antifungal fungal infection
R158324) GLP-1 type 2 diabetes
R156425) vascular targeting agent solid tumours
R166826) E2F modulator solid tumours
R152427) calcineurin inhibitor acute renal transplant rejection
R149528) non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV
External partners (project ID) There are currently 64 NMEs in the Pharmaceuticals Division’s R&D pipeline. Of these,
1) Genentech/Biogen Idec 15) Kosan Biosciences (KOS1584) 13 are in early-stage development (phase 0), 30 have entered phase I clinical testing, 13 are in phase II,
2) Chugai 16) Protein Design Labs and 8 in phase III or filed.
3) Genentech (PRO70769) 17) Sankyo (CS-023) In 2004 13 projects entered phase 0, 12 moved to phase I, 1 to phase II and 2 to phase III.
4) GlaxoSmithKline 18) Novartis Ophthalmics
5) Nippon Shinyaku (NS-220) 19) Novartis and Tanox Phase 0: Transition from preclinical to clinical development
6) Japan Tobacco (JTT-705) 20) Biogen Idec Phase I: Initial studies in healthy volunteers and possibly in patients
7) Memory Pharmaceuticals (MEM1414) 21) Curis Phase II: Efficacy, tolerability and dose-finding studies in patients
8) Memory Pharmaceuticals (MEM1917) 22) Amgen and Immunex Phase III: Large-scale studies in patients for statistical confirmation ofsafety and efficacy
9) Genentech 23) Basilea Pharmaceutica
Bluetype signifies first indication, blacktype additional indications.
10) Genentech/OSI Pharmaceuticals 24) Ipsen (BIM51077)
Current as of 31 December 2004.
11) Kosan Biosciences (KOS862) 25) Antisoma (DMXAA)
12) Ipsen 26) ArQule (ARQ501) Therapeutic protein
13) Antisoma 27) Isotechnika Small molecule
14) Ipsen (BN80927) 28) MedivirFold-out: R&D Pipeline Pharmaceuticals
national study show that once-monthly oral Boniva 107 research projects in major therapeutic areas
is an effective,well-tolerated and convenient alter- (31 Dec. 2004)
native to current daily and weekly oral bisphospho-
nate regimens and has the potential to improve
long-term treatment adherence. In addition, new Oncology 27
data from a multinational study of injectable Neurological and
psychiatric diseases 21
Boniva have shown it to be the first injectable bis-
phosphonate that is effective when administered Viral diseases 8
once every two or three months,offering all osteo- Respiratory diseases 5
porosis patients greater choice and especially help- Genitourinary diseases 2
ing those unable to tolerate oral therapy.The once- Inflammatory, autoimmune
and bone diseases 11
monthly oral formulation has already been filed in
Cardiovascular and
the United States,the European Union and Switzer-
metabolic diseases 33
land. We are now preparing for launch together
with our partner, GlaxoSmithKline. A marketing
application for Boniva two-monthly or three-
monthly intravenous injection was submitted to
the US FDA at the end of2004.
We aim to develop well-profiled medicines that add
Other major products significant value for patients,physicians and payers
in each ofour therapeutic areas ofinterest.Pharma
Rocephin remained the world’s leading injectable Research is applying a strategy that is steadily
antibiotic in 2004,posting total sales of over 1 bil- increasing both the quantity and quality of the
lion Swiss francs.Rocephin had a strong year in the compounds moved into development by screening
United States, with sales growing 8%. European out those with undesirable characteristics at the
sales ofthe product declined less than expected due discovery stage.Preclinical and clinical risk-defin-
to the delayed introduction ofgenerics in Italy. ing studies that traditionally are conducted in later
phases have now been moved into phase I. While
Sales of Roaccutane/Accutane,for severe acne,fell this may result in longer phase I cycle times, we
more than one-third in 2004. The decline was believe it will increase the quality ofthe compounds
largely due to the market entry ofcompeting gener- entering the later,more costly development phases.
ics in the United States and Europe. During 2004 In addition,we have aligned drug safety evaluations
Roche worked closely with the EU health authori- from discovery right through to marketing in a
ties on the introduction of an enhanced, har- seamless process.
monised pregnancy prevention programme for
women taking Roaccutane/Accutane (isotretinoin) The Pharmaceuticals Division R&D pipeline cur-
in all member states.In the United States Roche has rently includes 64 new molecular entities (NMEs),
been working with the FDA and generic manufac- of which 13 are in phase 0, 30 in phase I, 13 in
turers to create a register ofall patients treated with phaseII and eight in phase III or filed.
products containing isotretinoin. The register is
expected to be launched in July 2005 and will In 2004 Roche Research and Development filed
replace the current Accutane programme. twelve investigational new drug applications with
the FDA,a significant increase over previous years.
Research and development
See page fold-out for pipeline details. For regularly
Roche Pharmaceuticals invested 4.4 billion Swiss
updated information on Roche’s R&D pipeline,
francs in R&D in 2004.At 20.1% ofsales,this again
please visit http://www.roche.com/home/investors/
puts us above the industry average and shows our
inv_pipeline.htm
strong commitment to innovation.
Annual Report 2004 25Pharmaceuticals
Roche R&D expects to advance at least five projects Major development activities
into phase II clinical testing in 2005. In our main
growth area, oncology, Roche R&D increased the Oncology
number of projects to 60,twelve more than at the Roche and Genentech are pursuing a comprehen-
end of 2003.We currently have 107 research pro- sive clinical programme investigating the use of
jects across seven therapeutic areas and 79 develop- Avastin with a number ofchemotherapeutic agents
ment projects in eight therapeutic areas. Of the in advanced colorectal cancer and as adjuvant ther-
Roche-managed R&D projects,eleven were termi- apy following surgery. As Avastin’s mechanism of
nated in 2004:four in phase 0,four in phase I and action may be relevant in a number of malignant
two in phase II;only one product (pemtumomab) tumours,we are also investigating the drug’s poten-
was terminated in phase III. tial clinical benefit in other cancers,including non-
small cell lung cancer,pancreatic cancer,renal cell
Innovation network carcinoma and breast cancer.Approximately 15,000
patients are expected to be enrolled in clinical trials
In 2004 Roche Pharmaceuticals continued to worldwide over the next several years.
expand its access to innovative research,technolo-
gies and compounds through its hub-and-spoke As Tarceva is designed to interfere with a molecular
strategy of combining strong in-house R&D with signal that stimulates tumour cell growth in
external partnerships and alliances. numerous types of cancer, it is currently being
investigated in a variety of malignant diseases by a
In November Roche further strengthened its global global alliance of Roche,Genentech,OSI Pharma-
research network by opening a new pharmaceutical ceuticals and Chugai. Tarceva is also being evalu-
R&D centre in Shanghai, China. The new facility ated in combination with Avastin.
will focus on medicinal chemistry research for
lead generation and optimisation,complementing Major programmes exploring the role ofHerceptin
activities at the Group’s other R&D centres. in adjuvant breast cancer and ofXeloda in the adju-
vant setting in colon and breast cancer are continu-
Roche and Genentech made important progress in ing,as are more exploratory trials of the potential
the coordination of research activities. An agree- benefits of several early-stage molecules with dis-
ment has been signed that sets the framework tinct mechanisms ofaction in a number ofcancers.
for joint projects.Following a review of discovery
portfolios in oncology and immunology, our In 2004 Roche scientists identified a class of small
researchers are now evaluating the potential of molecules that activate a key tumour suppressor
three joint projects. pathway that protects cells from becoming malig-
nant. This new research could offer a completely
In 2004 Roche signed over 20 new research and new strategy for cancer therapy.
technology agreements and nine product agree-
ments, including important ones in oncology Hematology and nephrology (anemia)
(ArQule, Syrrx), virology (Pharmasset, Structural Development of CERA, the first continuous ery-
Genomix) and vascular diseases (Japan Tobacco). thropoietin receptor activator,for the treatment of
During the year several alliances with existing part- renal and cancer-related anemia is progressing on
ners, including Affymetrix, Anadys, BioXell, Elan, track.CERA represents a major advance in anemia
Evotec, Memory and Norak, were expanded or management. Recruitment into global phase III
amended to enhance their value.In addition,Roche renal anemia studies is advancing well, and phase
sold all rights to Tasmar to Valeant Pharmaceuticals III studies in cancer-related anemia are due to start
and the rights to Soriatane in the United States to in mid-2005.Roche plans to file marketing applica-
Connetics. tions in the United States and elsewhere in 2006.
26 Annual Report 2004Pharmaceuticals
Rheumatoid arthritis Asthma
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune dis- R411 is a novel non-steroidal oral treatment
order characterised by joint inflammation which, that targets the inflammatory process underlying
even when treated, can result in progressive joint asthma. Results of two phase II studies showed
destruction and, ultimately, loss of function. Its R411 to have a good safety and tolerability profile.
cause is unknown. RA can also shorten life Based on initial efficacy data,Roche is continuing
expectancy by affecting major organ systems.Less development ofthe molecule,with phase IIb stud-
than 50% of RA patients are able to work or per- ies scheduled to begin in 2005.
form everyday tasks ten years after developing the
disorder.Nearly six million people suffer from RA Roche and Protein Design Labs have agreed to
worldwide. codevelop daclizumab for use in asthma and related
respiratory conditions, based on positive phase II
Roche, Genentech and Biogen Idec are developing study data in patients with moderate to severe
MabThera/Rituxan for the treatment ofRA.It is the asthma. Daclizumab is currently approved as an
first B-cell depleting agent to be studied in this dis- immunosuppressant in transplant patients under
ease. Development is progressing on track and the brand name Zenapax.
global filings for an initial indication – in patients
with an inadequate response to currently prescribed Vascular diseases
biologics – are planned for the second halfof2005. In 2004 Roche licensed in an innovative CETP
Positive data from a phase II study (DANCER) were inhibitor,currently in phase II development,from
announced in November.In this study patients with Japan Tobacco. In addition, we have a potent and
moderate to severe RA who received two infusions highly selective PPARa agonist, licensed from
of MabThera over a two-week period in combina- Nippon Shinyaku, in phase I development. Both
tion with a stable dose ofmethotrexate experienced molecules have been shown to raise levels of‘good’
improved symptoms compared with patients who cholesterol,or HDL-C,which may help to prevent
received placebo and methotrexate. coronary events. These targeted approaches are
seen as a new frontier in cholesterol control.
Development ofMRA (an anti-interleukin 6 recep-
tor antibody) for RA is also progressing on track. In November Roche and deCODE genetics
Phase III studies ofthis novel biopharmaceutical in announced the formation ofa three-year collabora-
RA commenced in Europe and the United States at tion to develop and commercialise phosphodi-
the end of2004. esterase 4 (PDE4) inhibitors for the prevention and
treatment of vascular disease, including stroke.
Diabetes This new alliance expands the scope of collabora-
Work is continuing on development of the insulin tion between the two companies beyond genetically
sensitiser R483 in the treatment oftype 2 diabetes. driven target discovery activities to the next phase
Following new guidance by the FDA on data ofdrug research.
requirements for the class of drugs to which R483
belongs,Roche has decided to wait for the results of
ongoing long-term toxicity studies before starting
phase III clinical trials.The toxicity studies will be
completed in the first halfof2005.
R1438,R1439 and R1440 for the treatment oftype
2 diabetes are now in clinical development, with
decisions on entry into phase II expected in 2005.
Please visit www.roche.com/home/divisions.htm
These novel compounds represent the next genera-
formore information on Roche Pharmaceuticals.
tion oforal anti-diabetic medicines.
Annual Report 2004 27‘The doctor told me that my HCV would
be difficult to treat. Thanks to Pegasys I’m
virus-free now.’
Monique Wald (38) lives with her daughter near Frankfurt am Main,Germany.She probably became infected
withHCV (genotype 1) in the early 1980s,but it was not until 2001 that she was diagnosed with chronic hepatitis C.
Predisposition Early detection Prevention Diagnosis Therapy Monitoring
28 Annual Report 2004Pegasys – a highly effective medicine
forallhepatitis C virus genotypes
Hepatitis C is a major cause of acute liver inflamma-
tion and cancer. Left untreated, it can cause chronic,
progressive liver damage, leading to cirrhosis (a
build-up of scar tissue in the liver) and ultimately liver
failure and death. Until the hepatitis C virus (HCV) was
properly identified in 1989, the cause of hepatitis C
was unknown, and the condition was referred to as
‘non-A, non-B hepatitis’. Over the years, the virus
hasmutated into genetically distinct strains, identified
as genotypes 1 to 6, which differ in their response to
treatment.
Pegasys provides significant benefits to patients with
hepatitis C, no matter what viral genotype they are
infected with. Its molecular structure (pegylation)
allows therapeutic drug levels to be sustained for a
full week with just one dose. Pegasys is also dis-
tributed readily to the liver, the primary site of infec-
tion. It is the only pegylated interferon available as a
ready-to-administer solution.
Clinical trials have shown excellent treatment out-
comes for patients receiving Pegasys combined with
Copegus. More than half of the patients infected with
genotype 1 (the form of HCV that is most difficult
to treat) achieved a sustained virological response,
meaning that the virus could no longer be detected
intheir blood.
Prevention
Prevention involves identifying and, where possible,
eliminating risk factors for a particular disease or
reducing them to a minimum. Preventive treatment
with medicines or other interventions can delay the
onset of overt illness, stop a disease from progressing
or limit serious organ or tissue damage and other
complications.
Annual Report 2004 29Diagnostics Division in brief
Diagnostics Executive Team since 1 January 2005
Heino von Prondzynski CEO Division Roche Diagnostics
Silvia Ayyoubi Human Resources
Heiner Dreismann Molecular Diagnostics
Staffan Ek Diabetes Care
Christian Hebich Finance and Services
Tiffany Olson Market Development
Volker Pfahlert Applied Science
Burkhard Piper Centralized Diagnostics
Jürgen Schwiezer EMEA region (Europe, Middle East, Africa)
Robert Yates Business Development
Sales in millions of CHF
2004 7,827
2003 7,409
2002 7,194
Operating profit before exceptional items in millions of CHF
2004 1,675
2003 1,405
2002 1,331
Number of employees
2004 19,109
2003 18,302
2002 17,068
Key figures
% change in
In millions of CHF % change in CHF local currencies As % of sales
Sales 7,827 6 8 100
– Diabetes Care 2,895 7 10 37
– Near Patient Testing 554 1 3 7
– Centralized Diagnostics 2,743 4 5 35
– Molecular Diagnostics 1,104 8 11 14
– Applied Science 531 5 7 7
EBITDA 2,444 16 17 31.2
Operating profit1) 1,675 19 21 21.4
Research and development 698 –4 –2 8.9
1) Before exceptional items.
30 Annual Report 2004Diagnostics
‘2004 was a successful year for two reasons. For the sixth straight year
we grew significantly faster than the market and increased our market share.
And at the same time we further improved our operating profit margin.
Novel technologies are opening the door to a new era in diagnostics.
Today’s cutting-edge research in genetics, genomics and proteomics will
make tomorrow’s diagnostic tests even more accurate, rapid and efficient.
DNA chips, for example, will help identify disease predispositions at a very
early stage – paving the way for preventive action. In the medium term
this will contribute to significant savings in healthcare costs.’
Heino von Prondzynski,CEO Division Roche Diagnostics
Annual Report 2004 31Diagnostics
Results
Sales by region
Roche Diagnostics remained on the growth track,
with sales advancing 8% in local currencies and 6%
in Swiss francs.Sales grew significantly faster than
the market in all five ofthe division’s business areas, Europe/Middle East/Africa 47%
led by particularly strong gains in the diabetes care, Japan 5%
molecular diagnostics and immunochemistry seg- Asia–Pacific 6%
ments.As a result,the division reinforced its posi- Others 2%
tion as the global market leader.
North America 31%
Iberia/Latin America 9%
Profitability improved further.The division’s oper-
ating profit margin (before exceptional items)
reached 21.4%, and the EBITDA margin climbed
2.7 percentage points to 31.2%.These figures set a
new industry benchmark.Operating profit (before
exceptional items) increased 19% to 1,675 million Business areas
Swiss francs,while the division’s EBITDA rose 16%
to 2,444 million Swiss francs. Diabetes Care
Roche Diabetes Care remained the leading pro-
Regions viderofsolutions for better diabetes management,
with sales growing 10% in local currencies. Once
Roche Diagnostics outpaced the market in all again the Accu-Chek Advantage and Accu-Chek
regions.Once again sales advanced at double-digit Compact blood glucose meters were among the
rates in Iberia/Latin America (14%) and the top-selling products.
Asia–Pacific region (13%), with especially strong
gains being reported in China,India,Korea and Tai- The global diabetes market is characterised by
wan.The division continued to expand its market rising cost pressures, new treatment options and
leadership in both these regions. Sales increased customer demands for more and more sophisti-
11% in Japan,helped by the success ofthe division’s cated and powerful diabetes management systems.
diabetes care,blood screening and immunochem- To meet these challenges,Roche Diabetes Care has
istry businesses. After adjusting for the sale of expanded the Accu-Chek product family. The
several product lines in 2003, North American state-of-the-art Accu-Chek D-TRONplus insulin
sales rose 8% on a comparable basis, an increase pump – the first pump to carry the Accu-Chek
well above the market growth rate. Diabetes name – was launched in 2004. Also new is Accu-
management products, molecular diagnostics and Chek Pocket Compass 2.0,a diabetes management
immunochemistry were the biggest growth seg- software package for personal digital assistants that
ments in Europe.Sales in this market region (which completes the ‘circle of care’ by allowing users to
includes the Middle East and Africa) advanced 7% record and track data from both a blood glucose
for the year,and thus also grew significantly faster meter and an insulin pump.This isthe first Roche
than the market. product to link blood glucose measurement,analy-
sis ofpatient data and insulin delivery.
2004 also saw the launch of Accu-Chek Multiclix,
the world’s first lancing device to use an integrated
lancet drum.Multiclix offers enhanced hygiene and
safety because lancets automatically retract into the
six-lancet drum immediately after use.
32 Annual Report 2004Diagnostics
Top-selling product lines in 2004
Sales % change
Product line Market segment Business area in millions of CHF in local currencies
Accu-Chek Diabetes management Diabetes Care 2,650 9
Cobas Integra1), Clinical chemistry Centralized Diagnostics 1,032 2
Roche Hitachi1)
Elecsys Immunochemistry Centralized Diagnostics 882 21
Amplicor tests, Clinical molecular Molecular Diagnostics 687 8
Cobas Amplicor diagnostics
Cobas AmpliScreen Nucleic acid-based Molecular Diagnostics 277 32
blood screening
CoaguChek Coagulation monitoring Near Patient Testing 166 16
1) Excluding HIAs (homogeneous immunoassays).
The division is now manufacturing blood glucose Sales of coagulation monitoring products – a seg-
meters in China as well as at its production sites ment in which Roche has by far the largest market
inEurope and North America.The new production share – grew by more than 16%, with demand
facility,which has been operational since mid-2004, fuelled mainly by the continuing trend to system-
has strengthened Roche Diagnostics’presence in the atic anticoagulation management.More and more
high-growth Chinese market and given the division European health insurers have begun reimbursing
a broader base from which to compete successfully the costs of patient self-monitoring now that the
in the Far East as a whole.In China alone,there are benefits have been documented in several interna-
currently more than 20 million people living with tional clinical trials. Self-monitoring has been
diabetes,and this figure is projected to increase five- shown,for example,to significantly reduce the risk
fold within the next two tothree decades. of thrombosis in patients with artificial heart
valves.
In mid-2003 the FDA issued a letter citing certain
deficiencies in manufacturing processes and docu- Roche Diagnostics is also the leader in the hospital
mentation at Disetronic,the insulin pump manu- point-of-care segment (rapid testing products for
facturer acquired by Roche earlier that same year. use in hospitals and at accident scenes).The deci-
The procedures and processes in question have sion to tighten our focus on core areas is having a
since been modified to conform to the Roche positive impact,as reflected in good sales ofcardiac
Group’s worldwide quality standards. Roche is assays and the large increase in new placements of
working closely with FDA officials in preparation blood gas and electrolyte analysers.Placements of
for the pending FDA re-audit ofthe Burgdorfpro- OMNI S multifunctional blood gas analysers, for
duction site in Switzerland. Following successful example,showed a fourfold increase over 2003.
completion of the re-audit, Roche will move
quickly to start sales of its new-generation insulin The global rollout of Urisys 1100 was successfully
pumps in the United States. completed in 2004.This compact system for stan-
dardised urinalysis is designed for use in doctors’
Near Patient Testing offices and small laboratories.
Roche Near Patient Testing is the leading supplier Centralized Diagnostics
of products and services for rapid diagnosis in
point-of-care settings,from ambulances and inten- Roche Centralized Diagnostics, a leading supplier
sive care units to doctors’ offices and patients’ of integrated total solutions for clinical laborato-
homes.Sales in this business area grew 3% in local ries,reported above-market sales growth of 5% in
currencies in 2004. local currencies.
Annual Report 2004 33Diagnostics
Mounting pressure to contain medical costs and licensing the marker hsCRP (high sensitivity
make healthcare delivery more efficient,combined C-reactive protein). Used to assess cardiovascular
with shortages ofskilled laboratory staff,is fuelling risk,hsCRP is the third important cardiac marker
demand for cost-effective and fully automated inte- in the division’s portfolio, which already includes
grated laboratory systems. biomarkers and tests for heart attack and heart
failure.
Modular Analytics SWA for serum work areas –
another segment in which Roche is the leader – Molecular Diagnostics
meets the needs oftoday’s laboratory market.Com-
bining clinical chemistry and immunochemistry Roche Molecular Diagnostics remains the undis-
testing on a single platform, this system is one of puted market leader in this high-growth segment.
Centralized Diagnostics’key growth drivers. Sales of diagnostic products were up 12% in local
currencies,while sales ofenzymes to industrial cus-
Performance in this business area was largely driven tomers,which account for a smaller percentage of
by a strong rise in immunochemistry sales,with the revenues,showed a gain of8%.Blood screening and
acquisition of Igen providing an important addi- women’s health products were the main growth
tional stimulus to growth.Completed in February drivers.
2004, this strategic transaction secures Roche’s
rights to the electrochemiluminescence (ECL) Sales in the blood screening segment advanced by
technology underlying the Elecsys line ofimmuno- an impressive 32%. Our viral tests are used to
chemistry products.From 2001 to 2003 this prod- screen more units of blood worldwide than any
uct line consistently achieved sales growth above other nucleic acid-based testing system. Because
20%. In 2004 new placements of Elecsys systems they look for viruses directly,rather than for anti-
reached a record high,and sales rose another 21%. bodies formed in response to an infection, tests
In the medium term Roche Diagnostics aims to based on nucleic acid technology (NAT) help
become the leader in immunochemistry,a growth ensure the availability of safer blood and blood
market currently valued at 8.6 billion Swiss francs. products sooner.
A new ten-year agreement with our long-standing 2004 saw the signing of three major agreements in
Japanese partner Hitachi High-Technologies has this area.One ofthe agreements extends our exclu-
brought us another step closer to achieving this sive contract with the Japanese Red Cross for an
goal. Roche and Hitachi will continue to develop additional four years, while another provides for
automated laboratory solutions that set new stan- the Korean Red Cross to use Roche tests to screen
dards in innovation,just as they have done for the 70% of its blood donations.The third agreement,
past 25 years. with the German Red Cross, marks Roche’s entry
into the German blood screening market with its
The division also continues to invest in technolo- real-time PCR instruments.These instruments are
gies to automate the many steps that precede and based on second-generation PCR (polymerase
follow actual testing in the laboratory.For example, chain reaction) technology. PCR technology can
Roche Diagnostics has extended its cooperation copy DNA fragments in a sample millions oftimes
agreement for pre-analytical systems with PVT over, enabling the detection of even minute
Probenverteiltechnik (Germany),a move that rein- amounts ofbacteria or viruses.
forces the division’s lead as a supplier oftotal labo-
ratory solutions. In addition, an application for clearance of
CobasAmpliScreen HBV Test for screening donor
In the cardiovascular testing segment,Centralized bloodfor the hepatitis B virus was submitted to the
Diagnostics has increased the availability of NT- FDA.
proBNP – a key marker for heart failure – through
out-licensing agreements, and last year also Filings have also been submitted to the FDA for
expanded its own product portfolio further by in- expanded indications of the Cobas AmpliScreen
34 Annual Report 2004Diagnostics
Gender matters
HIV and HCV products for NAT testing of cadav-
eric fluid for HIV and hepatitis C virus.Clearance
of the products for these indications will help
increase the safety oforgan and tissue donations.
In 2004 the division added another important test
to its women’s health portfolio with the successful
European rollout of Amplicor HPV Test, which is
capable of identifying all 13 of the most clinically
relevant human papillomavirus (HPV) genotypes.
HPV infection is recognised as the leading cause of
cervical cancer.France is the first European country
to approve reimbursement for the test.We expect
HPV tests to have a significant positive impact
on the diagnosis and treatment of cervical cancer.
Awareness that there are significant health dif- (See also Research and development,p.37.)
ferences between men and women is nothing
new. But it wasn’t until recently that researchers Tests for chlamydial infections and gonorrhea,
began systematically investigating these differ- which are among the most common sexually trans-
ences. The findings are sometimes startling. mitted diseases,posted double-digit sales growth.
For example, recent studies have shown that the risk In 2004 Roche Molecular Diagnostics maintained
of arteriosclerosis increases dramatically in women its leading position in the fiercely competitive virol-
following the hormone changes that occur during the ogy market. The business area’s quantitative test
menopause and that – contrary to widespread belief – for hepatitis B and qualitative test for hepatitis C
heart disease now claims the lives of more women were two of the major growth drivers.In addition,
than men. Besides being susceptible to gender-spe- a hepatitis C genotyping test was made available
cific diseases like breast cancer – still the leading forresearch use in the United States.
cause of death in women aged 45 to 50 – women are
more frequently the victims of sexually transmitted Sales in the genomics segment showed double-
diseases than men. Infertility is a common complica- digit growth. This strong gain was due in part to
tion of Chlamydia infection, and cervical cancer is AmpliChip CYP450 Test – the world’s first micro-
usually preceded by an infection with the human array-based test for clinical diagnostic use – which
papillomavirus (HPV). was launched during the year in Europe.Since Jan-
uary 2005 it has also been cleared for marketing in
So there are good reasons for devoting even more the United States.This novel test provides valuable
research to women’s health, though this area is by no information for assessing the body’s ability to
means new for Roche Diagnostics. We have the metabolise medications, which can vary greatly
world’s broadest portfolio of women’s health tests, between individuals.It is one of a new generation
including tests for osteoporosis, fertility and some of diagnostic tests that identify clinically relevant
infectious diseases. As our new HPV test illustrates, genetic differences,thus helping physicians to select
Roche is relying heavily on modern molecular tech- the appropriate drugs and dosages for their
nologies which we hope will set new standards in patients.
the early detection and treatment of breast cancer,
ovarian cancer and other diseases. Applied Science
Roche Applied Science is a supplier ofreagents and
high-tech systems for scientific and industrial
research, with major focus areas in genomics and
proteomics. Following a weak 2003, this business
Annual Report 2004 35Diagnostics
DNA chips: tiny high-tech
achieved excellent growth in 2004 as sales rose
wonders with a big future 7% in local currencies. Growth was led by sales
of LightCycler reagents and by Applied Science’s
industrial business, with a major contribution
coming from new placements ofLightCycler instru-
ments. Placements of this DNA amplification
system continue to increase steadily, particularly
inhigh-growth markets in the Asia–Pacific region.
Research and development
In 2004 Roche Diagnostics invested 698 million
Swiss francs in research and development,signifi-
cantly more than any competitor. The division is
DNA chips are already an established tool in laying the foundation for future success by concen-
research. Now these tiny devices are conquering trating its research efforts primarily on its three
new worlds as they help doctors deliver more fastest-growing segments – molecular diagnostics,
personalised healthcare based on insights into diabetes and immunochemistry.
small but important genomic differences.
Diabetes Care
DNA* chips – also known as gene chips or micro-
arrays – are thumbnail-sized chips embedded with The main focus is on developing Accu-Chek sys-
thousands of precisely arranged DNA fragments, tems offering optimum user-friendliness and
each one like a molecular magnet that will attract one designed to make living with diabetes easier.For a
specific DNA sequence in a sample. Every target start, this means providing patients with systems
sequence present in a sample will react (hybridise) that can analyse data from a glucose monitor and
with the complementary fragment on the chip, pro- an insulin pump and turn the data into actionable
ducing a fluorescent dot that can be visualised using information for patients and their doctors.And it
special laser equipment. The resulting pattern can also means developing state-of-the-art insulin
help identify genomic differences that can affect indi- pumps like Accu-Chek Spirit – scheduled for
vidual response to treatment. Using results from our launch in 2005 – which will enable patients to
AmpliChip CYP450 Test, for example, doctors can match their insulin doses much more closely to
better assess how quickly patients will metabolise their individual needs.
certain drugs before selecting the drug and dose.
In addition,projects are under way to develop inte-
DNA chips are able to analyse huge numbers of grated systems that will combine glucose measure-
genes simultaneously. For that reason they already ment, data management and insulin delivery, and
play an indispensable role in research. And they have the division is working on miniaturised device
a bright future in many areas of clinical diagnostic components, minimally invasive technologies and
testing as well – e.g. in distinguishing different can- continuous blood glucose monitoring systems.
cers and viral infections by their ‘genetic signatures’
so that treatment can be tailored more precisely to a The aim is to design pumps that come as close as
patient’s disease. possible to mimicking the natural pattern ofinsulin
release in healthy individuals – and ultimately to
develop an artificial pancreas.
*Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is the material that carries
genetic information.
36 Annual Report 2004Diagnostics
Major product launches in 2004
Business area Product
Diabetes Care Accu-Chek D-TRONplus, first insulin pump under the Accu-Chek brand
Accu-Chek Go blood glucose monitoring system with capillary fill and safety features
Accu-Chek Multiclix multiple lancing system with integrated lancet drum
Accu-Chek Pocket Compass 2.0 diabetes management software
Accu-Chek Safe T-Pro Plus disposable lancing device with adjustable depth setting
Accu-Chek Spirit, flexible menu-driven insulin pump (CE)
Near Patient Testing DataCare point-of-care data management software, update of V2.2
OMNI S 1–4, bloodgas/electrolyte combi-analyser family expansion
Centralized Diagnostics Elecsys AFP, updated reagent for assessment of germ cell tumours
Elecsys C-Peptide assay, for measuring C-peptide in human serum, plasma and urine
Elecsys Ferritin II, updated reagent for assessment of iron metabolism
Elecsys HIV Combi, a combined HIV antigen and antibody assay
Elecsys P1NP bone formation marker, for treatment monitoring in osteoporosis
Elecsys PTH , updated reagent for assessment of parathyroid function
Elecsys S100, for treatment monitoring in skin cancer
STA CephaScreen coagulation test
Urisys 1800, urinalysis system
Molecular Diagnostics AmpliChip CYP450 Test, microarray for drug metabolism (CE IVD)
Amplicor HPV Test, test kit (microwell plate format), for qualitative determination of human
papillomavirus (CE IVD)
LinearArray HCV Test, test for hepatitis C virus genotyping (research use)
IVD= for clinical use.
CE = European CE mark certification (Conformité européenne).
Near Patient Testing and instrument connectivity.The cobas 6000 mod-
ular serum work area platform – the first of a new
The trend towards decentralised testing (diagnostic generation of analysers – is currently being devel-
testing outside the laboratory) will continue. One oped specifically for medium-throughput labora-
medium-term goal for Roche Near Patient Testing tories.
is to supply portable devices capable ofperforming
every important coagulation test. This business Centralized Diagnostics is also investing in the
area will be adding new products to its portfolio development ofnew immunoassays.Research work
of cardiac marker tests, including an NT-proBNP on proteins has already produced very encouraging
assay for the Cardiac Reader system.This assay will preliminary data on new breast cancer markers,and
be a valuable tool for ruling out heart failure at the markers for other diseases, including colorectal
point ofcare. cancer, rheumatoid arthritis and cardiovascular
conditions,are also being investigated.
Centralized Diagnostics
Molecular Diagnostics
Roche Centralized Diagnostics is working to
develop even more cost-effective total laboratory In the first quarter of2005 Roche expects to receive
solutions, with a focus on workflow automation European CE mark certification for its LinearArray
Annual Report 2004 37Diagnostics
Key product launches scheduled in 2005
Business area Product
Diabetes Care Accu-Chek Aviva, high-end successor of Advantage/Sensor blood glucose monitoring system
Accu-Chek Compact plus, blood glucose monitoring system with one-step handling by
integrated strip and lancing devices
Accu-Chek Pocket Compass 2.1, diabetes management software
Accu-Chek Spirit, flexible menu-driven insulin pump (USA)
Near Patient Testing Cardiac proBNP, test strip for use on the Cardiac Reader for diagnosis and monitoring
ofchronic heart failure
Cobas IT 1000, hospital point-of-care data management software
Centralized Diagnostics Cholinesterase assay for assessment of liver function, now available as liquid reagent
MPA (mycophenolic acid), new product to monitor Roche immunosuppressive drug
Elecsys Prolactin II, optimisation of macroprolactin detection
Elecsys Vitamin D, new product for extension of bone marker portfolio on ECL platform
X7, dedicated HbA1c (glycated hemoglobin) analyser on the basis of Cobas Integra 800
Molecular Diagnostics AmpliChip CYP450 Test, microarray for drug metabolism (US IVD)
AmpliChip Leukemia Test for detection of the different subtypes (research use)
Cobas AmpliPrep + Cobas TaqMan, integrated systems for sample preparation
andDNA/RNA analysis (HIV, HCV, HBV)
Cobas AmpliScreen HBV Test for detection of HCV and HIV-1 RNA and HBV DNA
inhuman plasma (US IVD)
Cobas TaqMan (48) CT Test, for detection of Chlamydia(CE IVD)
LightCycler Factor V Test, for detection of mutations for clotting Factor V Leiden (CE IVD)
LinearArray HCV Test, for hepatitis C virus genotyping (CE IVD)
LinearArray HPV Test, for human papillomavirus (CE IVD)
Sepsis test for detection of bacterial and fungal DNA from whole blood (CE IVD)
Applied Science HTC System, high-end real-time PCR system with throughput of 96 and 384 wells
LightCycler 2.0 CE/SW 4.05, IVD version of the LightCycler 2.0 DNA amplification system
Quant PCR Master TaqMan, generic PCR master mix for use on all common 96-well real-
time PCR instruments
IVD= for clinical use.
CE = European CE mark certification (Conformité européenne).
HPV Test, which can identify 37 HPV genotypes. To meet the ever-growing demand for blood and
The test will be available for research use in the blood products, laboratories frequently screen
United States in 2005. pooled samples from multiple donors. While this
saves time and money, it also increases the risk
Roche Molecular Diagnostics is also currently plan- thata virus may go undetected.Two Roche instru-
ning to launch a rapid and sensitive Chlamydia ments designed to address this safety issue are cur-
assay for its Cobas TaqMan instrument for real- rently under development. Scheduled for launch
time PCR.This assay,which is already available for outside the United States in 2006,Blood Screening
the Amplicor instrument,will be a major addition System 200 and Blood Screening System 400 are
to the TaqMan menu, since Chlamydia assays are dedicated, fully automated instruments that will
among the nucleic acid-based tests most frequently make it possible to screen individual samples
performed in molecular diagnostic laboratories. quickly, reliably and cost-effectively. Both systems
38 Annual Report 2004Diagnostics
have already met with great enthusiasm at interna-
tional blood service conferences.
Moreover,Roche Molecular Diagnostics is develop-
ing clinical diagnostic tests that use AmpliChip and
PCR technology and are based on the latest
advances in genomics.Here Roche is working with
Affymetrix (USA) and deCODE genetics (Iceland)
to discover additional genetic variations and mark-
ers that could be useful in the development ofnovel
tests, particularly for complex diseases like leu-
kemia. A collaboration agreement with Epigeno-
mics (Germany) is already yielding results.In 2004
Epigenomics identified a number of markers that
could one day facilitate the early detection ofbreast
and colorectal cancers. The next step will be to
develop tests for these biomarkers.
Applied Science
This business area develops innovative reagents and
systems for research in the life sciences,particularly
genomics and proteomics. The product portfolio
for genomics will be expanded in 2005 with the
launch of the HTC (High Throughput Cycler)
System. This real-time PCR analyser will feature
higher sample throughput capabilities and a broad
menu of tests. Innovative tests for identifying
genetic variants are scheduled for launch in 2006.
Please visit www.roche.com/home/divisions.htm
for more information on Roche Diagnostics
Annual Report 2004 39Tailor-made solutions for different kinds
of laboratories
Time is of the essence. And nowhere is this truer than
in clinical laboratories, where huge numbers of blood,
serum and urine samples have to be processed every
day. Large laboratories may perform up to 10,000 tests
an hour. Understandably, more and more laboratories
are turning to automated, integrated solutions to save
precious time.That laboratories also want maximum
cost efficiency and insist on absolute system reliabil-
ity goes without saying.
Our modular high-throughput analyser, Modular Ana-
lytics SWA (Serum Work Area), delivers on all counts.
By combining clinical chemistry and immunoassay
capabilities on a single platform, the system allows
users to consolidate scores of tests, from blood
chemistries like cholesterol, electrolytes, proteins and
hormones to biomarkers, e.g. for cancer, osteoporosis
and cardiovascular and infectious diseases. As a
result, up to 90% of samples can be processed in a
single pass. Once samples have been loaded, they are
automatically transferred from one test position in the
system to the next. This not only improves workflow
efficiency but also helps reduce labour costs. And
because the system is modular (as the name says), it
can be configured to meet laboratories’ individual
needs.
Diagnosis
To cope with today’s broad range of tests and high
sample workloads, laboratories require systems that
combine high sensitivity and precision with speed and
user-friendliness. This is critical to providing physi-
cians with the fast, accurate diagnostic information
they need to treat their patients. Early, targeted diag-
nostic testing – together with tests for monitoring dis-
ease progression and treatment response – is one of
the keys to achieving successful treatment outcomes.
40 Annual Report 2004‘Fast, accurate test results are critical
to effective care.’
Laboratory physician Imme Maute,who lives in Berlin,Germany,provides community-based practitioners
with vital information for decisions about patient care.In her business,efficient,reliable systems are a must.
Predisposition Early detection Prevention Diagnosis Therapy Monitoring
Annual Report 2004 41Board of Directors
and Executive Committee
Board of Directors Executive Committee
At the Annual General Meeting on 6 April 2004 Richard T. Laube, Head of Roche Consumer
Bruno Gehrig and Lodewijk J.R. de Vink were Health,which has been sold to Bayer,stepped down
elected as new members ofthe Board ofDirectors. from the Executive Committee at the end of 2004;
On the same date the Board appointed Mr Gehrig the sale closed on 31 December 2004.He had suc-
as a Vice-Chairman and Independent Lead Director cessfully led the Group’s OTC business since 1999
and named him to chair the Board’s Remunera- and was appointed to the Executive Committee in
tionCommittee.Mr de Vink was appointed to the 2001.The Board ofDirectors would like to take this
Finance and Investment Committee. opportunity to thank Mr Laube for his significant
contribution to the company and wishes him every
The current Board terms ofJohn Bell,André Hoff- success in his future endeavours.
mann and Franz B. Humer will end at the next
Annual General Meeting,on 28 February 2005.All At the end of 2004 the Board of Directors voted
three gentlemen have agreed to stand for re-elec- tointroduce a number ofstructural and personnel
tion to the Board.If they are re-elected,Chairman changes to expand and strengthen the Executive
ofthe Board Franz B.Humer will continue to be the Committee. The changes, which became effective
only director also serving in an executive capacity at on 1 January 2005, include the appointment of
Roche,and the majority of seats on the Board will William M.Burns,who heads the Group’s Pharma-
be held by independent directors. ceuticals Division, as CEO Division Roche Phar-
maceuticals, and the appointment of Heino von
Prondzynski,Head of the Diagnostics Division,as
CEO Division Roche Diagnostics. Chief Financial
Officer Erich Hunziker has been appointed Deputy
Head ofthe Executive Committee.
In addition, the following key senior managers
havebeen appointed as permanent participants of
the Executive Committee:Eduard Holdener,Head
of Global Pharma Development; Peter Hug,Head
of Pharma Partnering; Staffan Ek, Head of Roche
Diabetes Care;and RolfSchläpfer,Head ofCorpo-
rate Communications. Osamu Nagayama, Presi-
dent and CEO ofChugai,who has been participat-
ing in meetings of the Executive Committee since
2003 as required,has also been named a permanent
participant.
After completing his medical studies,Eduard Hold-
ener, who is Swiss, worked as an internist and
42 Annual Report 2004Board of Directors and Executive Committee
Board ofDirectors as of1 January 2005 (from left): John Bell,RolfHänggi,Peter Brabeck-Letmathe,
Bruno Gehrig,André Hoffmann,Franz B.Humer,Lodewijk J.R.de Vink,DeAnne Julius,Walter Frey,
Andreas Oeri,Horst Teltschik
Name, year of birth Term ends First election
Board of Directors
Dr Franz B. Humer (1946) D*, F Chairman 2005 1995
Prof. Dr Bruno Gehrig (1946) C*, D, E Vice-Chairman and Independent Lead Director 2008 2004
Rolf Hänggi (1943) A*, B, D, E Vice-Chairman 2006 1996
Prof. Dr John Bell (1952) C, E 2005 2001
Peter Brabeck-Letmathe (1944) E 2006 2000
Lodewijk J.R. de Vink (1945) A, E 2008 2004
Walter Frey (1943) B, E 2008 2001
André Hoffmann (1958) A, C, E 2005 1996
Dr DeAnne Julius (1949) B*, E 2006 2002
Dr Andreas Oeri (1949) B, E 2008 1996
Prof. Dr Horst Teltschik (1940) A, E 2006 2002
Secretary to the Board of Directors
Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954)
A Finance and Investment Committee. 1 January 2005
B Audit and Corporate Governance Committee.
C Remuneration Committee.
D Presidium/Nomination Committee.
E Non-Executive Member.
F Executive Member.
* Committee chairman.
Annual Report 2004 43Board of Directors and Executive Committee
oncologist at several hospitals in Switzerland and After earning a degree in economics,RolfSchläpfer,
in clinical research at the University of Kansas in who is Swiss,held several management positions in
theUnited States.He joined the Group in 1986 as a marketing and communications.He was a partner
member of the oncology group in Roche’s clinical and managing director of the consultancy firm
research organisation and was appointed head of Wirz Identity before joining Roche in 1997 as Head
the group in 1991. Mr Holdener was in charge of of Corporate Communications, which includes
Pharma Development at Roche Japan from 1995 internal and external communications and public
until his appointment as Head of Global Pharma affairs.
Development in 1999.
In recent years the Group has steadily pursued a
Peter Hug, who is also Swiss, has a PhD in eco- strategy of reshaping itself into an innovative
nomics. He joined Roche in 1983, working first healthcare company focused on its pharmaceuticals
in a variety of positions in Pharma Marketing in and diagnostics businesses,and the changes to the
Switzerland, Canada and Greece and later as gen- Executive Committee mark another step in this
eral manager of the Group’s affiliates in Uruguay, direction. The new structure gives us a broader
Switzerland and Spain. His career at Roche also leadership base with clearly defined deputising
includes two years as head of Roche’s Diagnostics arrangements and enhances transparency. Func-
business in Germany. In September 2004 Mr Hug tions that are vital to our strategy ofinnovation are
assumed his current position as Head of Pharma now directly represented on the Executive Commit-
Partnering,where he is responsible for the Group’s tee, as are the most important business areas and
strategically vital network of collaborations and corporate departments.This move will help ensure
alliances. the Group’s continued ability to revitalise and
strengthen its management team. Moreover, the
Staffan Ek,who is Swedish and has a degree in busi- new structure will allow Chairman and CEO Franz
ness administration,began his career as a market- B.Humer to focus even more strongly on his role as
ing consultant before joining the Pharmacia phar- Chairman ofthe Board ofDirectors.
maceuticals group, where he worked for 20 years.
In 1994 he was appointed head of the diabetes
care unit at Boehringer Mannheim, the German
diagnostics company acquired by Roche in 1998.
AsHead of Roche Diabetes Care,he now manages
the business area accounting for the largest share
ofRoche Diagnostics’sales.
44 Annual Report 2004Board of Directors and Executive Committee
Executive Committee from 1 January 2005 (from left): Jonathan K.C.Knowles,Heino von Prondzynski,
William M.Burns,Franz B.Humer,Erich Hunziker,Gottlieb A.Keller
Name, year of birth Position
Executive Committee Dr Franz B. Humer (1946) Chief Executive Officer
Dr Erich Hunziker (1953)* Chief Financial Officer
William M. Burns (1947) CEO DivisionRoche Pharmaceuticals
Heino von Prondzynski (1949) CEO Division Roche Diagnostics
Prof. Jonathan K.C. Knowles (1947) Research
Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954) Corporate Services and Human Resources
Permanent Participants Dr Eduard Holdener (1945) Global Pharma Development
Dr Peter Hug (1958) Pharma Partnering
Staffan Ek (1945) Diabetes Care
Rolf D. Schläpfer (1956) Corporate Communications
Osamu Nagayama (1947) President and CEO, Chugai
Secretary to Pierre Jaccoud (1955)
the Executive Committee
Statutory Auditors KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler SA (since 2004)
of Roche Holding Ltd Principal auditor: John A. Morris (since 2004)
and Group Auditors
Compliance Officer Dr Andreas Greuter (1949) (direct phone number: +41 (0)61 688 75 37)
*Deputy Head of the Executive Committee. 1 January 2005
Annual Report 2004 45‘I have beaten the cancer,
which is really down to the treatment
I received – MabThera.’
Adam Morris (27),a data manager and former professional soccer player who lives in Newtown,Wales,
was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma ofthe bone,a very aggressive type ofcancer,in 2002.
Predisposition Early detection Prevention Diagnosis Therapy Monitoring
46 Annual Report 2004MabThera/Rituxan – a ‘smart’ drug for
lymphoma
Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL) is a common cancer
of the lymphatic system that results from defective
production of white blood cells.
MabThera (marketed as Rituxan in the United States,
Canada and Japan) is a therapeutic antibody that
binds to a particular protein on the surface of normal
and malignant B cells, a type of white blood cell. It
then recruits the body’s natural defences to attack
and kill the marked cells. While the immune system
does its work, healthy new B cells are produced in
thebone marrow. After treatment they return to nor-
mal levels within several months. The combination of
MabThera and chemotherapy is the first new treat-
ment in over 20 years that improves survival in
patients with aggressive NHL. To date, more than
540,000 patients around the world have been treated
with MabThera.
Therapy
Clinically differentiated medicines – alone or com-
bined with other interventions – are an essential com-
ponent in the effective treatment of many diseases.
Diagnostic tests that help physicians to choose the
most appropriate drug and dosage and monitor pa-
tients’ responses to medication are also playing an
increasingly important role in therapy. By using them
together, physicians can tailor treatment to a patient’s
individual needs, improving both clinical outcomes
and cost-efficiency.
Annual Report 2004 47Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance at Roche takes into account Organisational structure of the Board
all the principles that govern the management and of Directors
supervision of our company. A system of checks
and balances ensures accountability.In addition to Roche’s Board of Directors is organised so as to
complying with the existing legal and internal ensure that the Group’s businesses are conducted
company regulations, Roche also operates in responsibly and with a focus on long-term value
accordance with the requirements set out in the creation. Therefore, some years ago the Board of
Company’s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws. Directors of Roche Holding Ltd delegated certain
Roche meets all of the requirements of SWX Swiss responsibilities to several committees.These com-
Exchange (SWX) Corporate Governance Directive mittees are:
(including the Commentary) and also subscribes • the Presidium ofthe Board ofDirectors/
to the Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate Nomination Committee
Governance as promulgated by the business federa- (Chairman:Franz B.Humer)
tion economiesuisse. We aim to serve the diverse • the Audit and Corporate Governance Committee
interests of all our stakeholders, in particular (Chairman:DeAnne Julius)
employees, shareholders, holders of Roche non- • the Finance and Investment Committee
voting equity securities and customers, in a bal- (Chairman:RolfHänggi)
anced fashion.This commitment isreflected in our • the Remuneration Committee
operating businesses’ focus on innovation and (Chairman:Bruno Gehrig)
value creation, and in a management culture that
is characterised by modern,appropriate standards All committees except the Presidium are chaired by
ofcorporate governance. independent directors.
We combine the printed Annual Report with key The Bylaws of the Board of Directors, containing
links to the Roche website (www.roche.com), details on the internal structure of the Board, the
enabling readers to gain both a snapshot at the allocation of authority and responsibilities, the
reporting date and an up-to-date overview of the mandates of the Board committees and the infor-
Company’s key corporate governance information. mation and control mechanisms available to the
The Annual Report contains all the information Board in its dealings with corporate management,
available up to 31 December of a given year,while are published on the Internet.1)
the Internet provides a source of permanent and
constantly updated information. The Company’s Under Articles 4.2.2 and 6.2/6.3 of the Bylaws of
Articles of Incorporation,the Bylaws and the cur- the Board of Directors, the Independent Lead
ricula vitae of the members of the Board of Direc- Director may, at the request of any member,
tors and the Executive Committee are regularly convene a Board meeting without the attendance
updated and made available on the Internet for all of the Chairman. The Roche Board meets once a
those who require information. year to assess the Chairman’s performance. This
meeting, which is held in the absence of the
1) http://www.roche.com/home/company/ Chairman, is chaired by the Independent Lead
com_gov/com_gov_bylaws.htm Director.
48 Annual Report 2004Corporate Governance
Remuneration The remuneration was paid pro rata for their Board
membership for the period from January to March
Remuneration of members of the Board 2004.
ofDirectors
In 2004 the members of the Board of Directors Otherwise,no additional remuneration was paid to
received the remuneration shown in the table below members ofthe Board ofDirectors.
for serving on the Board:
Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors
Special Additional compensation 2004
Remuneration 2004 remuneration 2004 committee members2)
(in CHF) (in CHF) (in CHF)
F.B. Humer 300,0003) – –
B. Gehrig 337,5004) – –
R. Hänggi 375,0005) – –
J. Bell 300,000 – 10,000
P. Brabeck-Letmathe 300,000 – –
L.J.R. de Vink 225,0006) – 7,5006)
W. Frey 300,000 – 10,000
A. Hoffmann 300,000 – 20,000
D.A. Julius 300,000 50,0007) 10,000
A. Oeri 300,000 – 10,000
H. Teltschik 300,000 – 10,000
Total 3,337,500 50,000 77,500
2) Per committee membership/year, excluding members of the Presidium and vice-chairmen: CHF 10,000.
3) The remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board F.B. Humer (the only executive member of the Board of Directors) is
deducted from his agreed salary (see ‘Remuneration of members of the Executive Committee’, page 50).
4) Remuneration for serving as Independent Lead Director and Vice-Chairman pro rata for the period from April to December
2004.
5) Remuneration for serving as Vice-Chairman of the Board.
6) Pro rata for the period from April to December 2004.
7) Special remuneration for the additional time required by D.A. Julius in 2003 to evaluate the new auditors.
Remuneration, special remuneration and addi- Remuneration of members of the Executive
tional compensation paid to non-executive mem- Committee
bers of the Board of Directors for serving in the In 2004 the members of the Executive Committee
aforementioned capacities totalled 3,165,000 Swiss received the salaries, bonuses, stock options and
francs in 2004. non-voting equity securities shown in the tables
headed ‘Remuneration of members of the Execu-
The non-executive members ofthe Board ofDirec- tive Committee’.
tors were not awarded any shares or options in2004
and, as of 31 December 2004, held no unvested Senior managers and members of the Executive
options awarded in previous years. Committee additionally receive annual expense
allowances of 20,000 and 30,000 Swiss francs,
In addition, three non-executive members of the respectively;theChiefExecutive Officer receives an
Board of Directors who stepped down in 2004 annual expense allowance of50,000 Swiss francs.In
received remuneration totalling 225,000 Swiss francs. 2004 the members of the Executive Committee in
Annual Report 2004 49Corporate Governance
Remuneration of members of the Executive Committee:
A. Cash payments (in CHF)
Annual salary Annual salary Annual salary Bonus Bonus Bonus
2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002
F.B. Humer 6,030,000 6,030,000 6,030,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,500,000
W.M. Burns 1,200,000 1,200,000 1,150,000 800,000 600,000 400,000
E. Hunziker 1,470,000 1,470,000 1,470,000 800,000 600,000 112,0008 )
G.A. Keller 530,007 417,498 345,000 300,000 120,000 100,000
J.K.C. Knowles 1,025,001 929,500 843,499 600,000 360,000 320,000
R.T. Laube 765,000 705,000 660,000 300,000 150,000 300,000
H. von Prondzynski 1,150,000 1,098,750 865,000 700,000 500,000 500,000
Total 12,170,008 11,850,748 11,363,499 4,500,000 3,330,000 3,232,000
8) Pro rata for the period from 1 October 2001 to 31 December 2001.
B. Stock options, non-voting equity securities (NES; Genussscheine) and total remuneration 2004
PSPvalue Total
NESawarded per year remuneration
under the (three-year 2004
PSP programme (cash, stock
Stock options Stock options Stock options for the years i.e. 1⁄ options, 1⁄ of
3 3
2004 2003 2002 2002–2004 per year) PSP)
(value in CHF9)) (value in CHF9)) (value in CHF9)) (total number) (in CHF) (value in CHF)
F.B. Humer 1,780,338 1,780,100 1,367,400 101,772 4,440,652 13,250,990
W.M. Burns 712,135 445,100 319,100 20,254 883,750 3,595,885
E. Hunziker 667,606 445,100 45,60010) 24,810 1,082,543 4,020,149
G.A. Keller 222,642 89,100 54,800 6, 920 301,943 1,354,592
J.K.C. Knowles 489,652 311,600 218,800 14,346 625,964 2,740,617
R.T. Laube 267,170 204,800 209,700 11,140 486,075 1,818,245
H. von Prondzynski 578,709 356,100 218,800 14,176 618,546 3,047,255
Total 4,718,252 3,631,900 2,434,200 193,418 8,439,473 29,827,733
9) Black-Scholes valuation as described in section ‘C. Stock options’.
10) Pro rata for the period from 1 October 2001 to 31 December 2001.
total received expense allowances totalling 230,000 one Roche non-voting equity security (NES;
Swiss francs. Genussschein).Under the terms of this well estab-
lished option plan,the exercise price ofthe options
Richard T.Laube stepped down from the Executive shown was the closing price for Roche NES on the
Committee on 31 December 2004 and will leave the trading day prior to the Roche Annual Media Con-
company on 30 June 2005. Richard T. Laube was ference.All ofthe options shown are non-tradable.
awarded a special bonus of2.5 million Swiss francs One third of the options are subject to a vesting
in recognition of the successful completion of the period of one year,one third have a vesting period
sale ofRoche Consumer Health (RCH). oftwo years,and one third a vesting period ofthree
years. Unvested options lapse without compensa-
C. Stock options tion if a member voluntarily leaves the company,
At 31 December 2004 the members ofthe Executive while vested options must be exercised within a
Committee held options as shown in the table limited period oftime.Ifthey were tradable,the fair
below ‘Stock options’.All of the options shown in value ofthe options would be calculated at the date
the table were issued by Roche as employee stock of issue based on the Black–Scholes formula and
options.Each option entitles the holder to purchase after deducting 11% for the average two-year vest-
50 Annual Report 2004Corporate Governance
Stock options
Number of options Number of options Number of options
2004 2003 2002
F.B. Humer 55,775 109,410 45,428
W.M. Burns 22,310 27,353 10,600
E. Hunziker 20,915 27,353 1,51511)
G.A. Keller 6,975 5,471 1,820
J.K.C. Knowles 15,340 19,147 7,269
R.T. Laube 8,370 12,583 6,966
H. von Prondzynski 18,130 14,588 2,423
Total 147,815 215,905 76,021
Exercise price in CHF 129.50 77.80 115.50
Expiry date 3.2.2011 25.2.2010 26.2.2009
Allotment value per option in CHF
(value based on Black-Scholes valuation minus 11%) 31.92 16.27 30.10
11) Pro rata for the period from 1 October 2001 to 31 December 2001.
ing period. The exercise price, expiry date and Under Roche Connect,a voluntary stock purchase
allotment price are shown in the table ‘Stock plan,employees have the opportunity to buy Roche
options’,above.The value ofthe options in the table non-voting equity securities (NES, Genussscheine)
‘Remuneration ofmembers ofthe Executive Com- up to an amount equal to 10% of their annual
mittee,B.Stock options,non-voting equity securi- salary at a 20% discount.NES purchased under this
ties (NES; Genussscheine) and total remuneration plan are subject to a holding period, which in
2004’was based on the calculation method used at Switzerland is four years.
the time ofissue.
Performance Share Plan 2002–2004
Indirect benefits The members of the Executive Committee and
Employer contributions that were made in 2004 other members of senior management whose
to social security schemes, pension plans and a performance has a major impact on Roche’s ability
Group-wide employee stock purchase plan (Roche to achieve its corporate objectives (some 40 indi-
Connect) in respect of members of the Executive viduals worldwide) participated in the Perfor-
Committee are shown in the table ‘Indirect benefits’. mance Share Plan (PSP),which was established at
Indirect benefits
Pension funds/MGB12) AHV/IV/ALV13) Roche Connect
(in CHF) (in CHF) (in CHF)
F.B. Humer 2,740,991 408,725 50,004
W.M. Burns 768,940 142,865 30,000
E. Hunziker 585,703 158,558 36,756
G.A. Keller 177,664 56,759 12,915
J.K.C. Knowles 1,120,989 112,895 14,900
R.T. Laube 255,170 71,754 18,000
H. von Prondzynski 1,247,074 149,170 24,481
Total 6,896,531 1,100,726 187,056
12) MGB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation
supplementing occupational pension benefits).
13) AHV/IV/ALV: Swiss social security programmes providing retirement, disability and unemployment benefits.
Annual Report 2004 51Corporate Governance
the beginning of 2002. Under the provisions of Swiss francs.The distribution ofdividends totalled
this programme (and based on the salaries and 3.8 billion Swiss francs.
NES price that applied at that time) a number of
NES were reserved for the participants.The actual In comparison,the average total shareholder return
distribution of securities depended on whether (TSR) of the peer set was significantly lower,
andtowhat extent an investment in Roche securi- resulting in a decline in value of 11%. Thus TSR
ties (shares and NES) outperformed the average on Roche securities over the last three years is
return on investments in securities issued by a peer 29%higher than the average TSR ofthe peer com-
set14)of17 companies operating in the same indus- panies.
try during the three years in which this programme
was in effect. Performance was evaluated on the Roche has already made the necessary provisions
basis ofmarket price and dividend yields. for the PSP, on a pro rata basis, in its annual
accounts for 2002 and 2003.
Over the last three years Roche securities (shares
and NES), including dividend yields, have consis- The PSP ended on 31 December 2004 and,in accor-
tently outperformed the average return delivered by dance with the provisions ofthis programme,par-
the peer pharmaceuticals and diagnostics compa- ticipating executives were vested with double the
nies. Roche ranked second at the end of 2004. number of NES in recognition of their contribu-
During this time Roche’s market value increased tion to the company’s success. In addition, some
from 102 billion Swiss francs to 113 billion Swiss participants elected to place a percentage of their
francs,equivalent to growth of10.8% or 11 billion NES in a blocked account for aperiod offour years.
Detailed information concerning members of the
Executive Committee is presented in the table
‘Remuneration ofmembers ofthe Executive Com-
mittee,B.Stock options,non-voting equity securi-
ties (NES; Genussscheine) and total remuneration
2004’.
52 Annual Report 2004
001
811
001
98
14) Peer set: Abbott Laboratories, Amgen, AstraZeneca,
Aventis, Bayer, Becton Dickinson, Bristol-Myers Squibb,
Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Merck,
Novartis, Pfizer, Sanofi-Synthélabo, Schering-Plough,
Takeda, Wyeth
Roche performance
Roche Peer group
average
performance1
1.1.2002 31.12.2004 1.1.2002 31.12.2004
Total shareholder return (TSR)
The value of CHF 1001 invested 120
1st week of January 2002 100
80
60
40
20
0
Roche market capitalisation in billions of CHF 102 113
Roche securities in CHF Non-voting equity security (NES) 118.50 130.90
Share 136.00 150.00
1Prices translated at constant CHF exchange rates.
TSR = stock price change plus dividend.Corporate Governance
Other remuneration and emoluments and loans Note38 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial
to corporate officers Statements (‘Related parties’,page 131) and in the
Gottlieb A. Keller has taken out a mortgage loan Notes to the Financial Statements ofRoche Holding
of 492,500 Swiss francs with the Pension Fund of Ltd (page 148).In addition,as of31 December 2004
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd at an interest rate of the non-executive members ofthe Board ofDirec-
4.2%p.a.The interest rate on this loan is fixed until tors and persons closely associated with them held
31 December 2006. 165,975 shares;the members ofthe Executive Com-
mittee and persons closely associated with them
Pensions totalling 2,161,932 Swiss francs were paid held 996 shares at the same date.
to nine former Executive Committee members
or their widows in 2004 and bonuses totalling Relationship to Group auditors and statutory
1,620,000 Swiss francs were paid to two former auditors
Executive Committee members for the previous year
(2003). At the Annual General Meeting of Roche Holding
Ltd on 6 April 2004,KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick
Otherwise,no additional remuneration was paid to Goerdeler SA (KPMG) was elected as Group audi-
current or former members of the Executive Com- tors and statutory auditors (information on the
mittee. appointment of the Group auditors and the date
on which the principal auditor took up office will
Highest total remuneration be found on page 45). The Group auditors and
The Chairman of the Board and CEO Franz B. statutory auditors participate in the Audit and Cor-
Humer was the member ofthe Board and the mem- porate Governance Committee meetings.The audi-
ber of the Executive Committee with the highest tors make written and oral reports on the results of
total remuneration in 2004 (as shown in the tables their audits.The Audit and Corporate Governance
above).Including the allocation ofthe awards under Committee oversees and assesses the auditors and
the three-year Performance Share Plan, his direct makes recommendations to the Board (for infor-
salary was as follows: mation on the responsibilities of the Audit and
Highest total remuneration (in CHF)
2004 2003 2002
Cash payment 7,030,000 7,030,000 7,530,000
Stock options
(value based on Black-Scholes formula minus 11%) 1,780,338 1,780,100 1,367,400
Performance Share Plan 2002–2004
(allocation of 1⁄ per year) 4,440,652 4,440,652 4,440,652
3
Total (value) 13,250,990 13,250,752 13,338,052
Shareholdings Corporate Governance Committee,see Article 8.115)
of the Bylaws). The Group auditors and statutory
The Directors André Hoffmann and Andreas Oeri auditors participated in three meetings ofthe Audit
and members of the founder’s family who are and Corporate Governance Committee in 2004.
closely associated with them belong to a share-
holder group with pooled voting rights.At the end KPMG received the following remuneration for
of2004 this group held 80,020,000 shares (50.01% their services as Group auditors and as statutory
of issued shares). Following Fritz Gerber’s retire- auditors of Roche Holding Ltd and other Roche
ment from the Board and departure from the share- financial companies:
holder group on 6 April 2004, André Hoffmann
took over the role of pool spokesman. Detailed 15) http://www.roche.com/home/company/
information about this group is presented in com_gov/com_gov_bylaws.htm
Annual Report 2004 53Corporate Governance
(in millions of CHF) 2004 Additional information relating to corporate
Auditing services 10.4 governance
Audit-related services 1.7
Tax consultancy services 1.3 Group structure and shareholders
Total 13.4 • Roche’s operating businesses are organised into
two divisions:Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics.
The Group auditors and statutory auditors are The Pharmaceuticals Division comprises the three
elected each year by the Annual General Meeting. business segments Roche prescription,Genentech
prescription and Chugai prescription. The sale
Ernst & Young Ltd received the following remuner- of the Consumer Health (OTC) business resulted
ation for their services as the auditors ofGenentech inthe transfer ofRoche’s OTC business to Bayer AG
and Chugai: as of31 December 2004 and Chugai’s OTC business
to Lion Corporation as of29 December 2004.
(in millions of CHF) 2004 The Diagnostics Division consists offive business
Genentech and Chugai audits 3.3 areas: Diabetes Care, Near Patient Testing, Cen-
Other consulting services provided tralized Diagnostics, Molecular Diagnostics and
to Genentech and Chugai 1.0 Applied Science. Business activities are carried
Total 4.3 out through Group subsidiaries and associated
companies.Significant subsidiaries and associated
companies are listed in Note 41 to the Roche
Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Sub-
sidiaries and associated Companies’,pages 135 to
138).
• Major shareholders are listed in Notes 34 and 38 to
the Roche Group Consolidated Financial State-
ments (‘Equity’and ‘Related parties’,pages 128 and
131) and in the Notes to the Financial Statements
ofRoche Holding Ltd (page 148).
• André Hoffmann and Andreas Oeri serve on the
Board ofDirectors as representatives ofthe share-
holders with pooled voting rights and receive the
remuneration set out in the table ‘Remuneration
of members of the Board of Directors’,above.No
other relationships exist with the shareholders
with pooled voting rights.
• There are no cross-shareholdings.
Capital structure
• Information on Roche’s capital structure is pro-
vided in the Notes to the Financial Statements of
Roche Holding Ltd (page 148).Additional details
are contained in the Articles of Incorporation of
Roche Holding Ltd.16)
• Changes in equity are detailed in the Notes to
the Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd
(page 148).
16) http://www.roche.com/home/company/
com_gov/com_gov_arti.htm
54 Annual Report 2004Corporate Governance
• The Company has a share capital of 160,000,000 • The Board of Directors has established a system
Swiss francs, divided into 160,000,000 fully paid of controls which is overseen by the Audit and
bearer shares with a nominal value of1 Swiss franc Corporate Governance Committee and consists of
each. There are no limitations on the transfer of the following elements:
these shares and no shares with maximum voting – Reports on financial and operating risks
rights.Upon deposit,shares can be voted without – Internal audits
any restrictions. – Compliance Officer
• There is no authorised or conditional capital. – Safety and Environment department
• In addition,702,562,700 NES have been issued in – Corporate Sustainability Committee
bearer form.They do not form part of the share – Scientific and Ethics Advisory Group (SEAG)
capital and confer no voting rights.Each NES con- for issues relating to genetics and genetic engi-
fers the same rights as one share to participate in neering (established 1999).
available earnings and in any liquidation proceeds • Each year several black-out periods are imposed
following repayment of the share capital.Roche’s during which all senior employees are prohibited
NES and the provisions securing the claims and from trading in company stock. The following
rights pertaining thereto are described in §4 ofthe black-out periods are in effect for 2005:
Articles ofIncorporation ofRoche Holding Ltd. 1 January to 2 February
• Information on debt instruments which have 1 April to 19 April
been issued and on outstanding bonds will be 1 July to 20 July
found in Note 32 to the Roche Group Consoli- 1 October to 19 October
dated Financial Statements (‘Debt’,page 123). •Black-out periods can be changed by the Chairman
• Additional information on employee stock ofthe Board ofDirectors ifcircumstances warrant.
options will be found in Note 12 to the • The Board ofDirectors held a total offive meetings
Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements in 2004. The Board committees met as follows in
(‘Employee stock options and other equity com- 2004:
pensation benefits’,page 108). – the Presidium ofthe Board ofDirectors/Nomi-
• Roche has issued no options apart from those nation Committee:five meetings
which have been awarded to employees or issued – the Audit and Corporate Governance Commit-
in connection with debt instruments. tee:four meetings
• Neither the options awarded to employees nor the – the Finance and Investment Committee: three
debt instruments which have been issued have any meetings
effect on Roche’s share capital. – the Remuneration Committee:four meetings
• There are no management contracts which fall
Board of Directors and Executive Committee within the meaning ofSubsection 4.3 ofthe SWX
• Information on each member of the Board of Corporate Governance Directive.
Directors (including the years in which they were
elected and the years in which their terms end) Participatory rights of shareholders
and Executive Committee is listed on pages 42 • The participatory rights of shareholders are fully
to 45. Curricula vitae and other information defined in Roche’s Articles of Incorporation19).
about Board and Executive Committee members As Roche shares are issued to bearer, there are
(including information on board memberships) no restrictions on admission to Annual General
are available on the Internet17). Meetings,with the exception that shares must be
• None ofthe non-executive members ofthe Board
of Directors has been a member of the Executive
Committee of Roche or any of the Group sub-
17) http://www.roche.com/home/company/
sidiaries during the three financial years preceding
com_gov.htm
the current reporting period.
18) http://www.roche.com/home/company/
• The internal organisation of the Board of Direc-
com_gov/com_gov_bylaws.htm
tors and the division ofauthority and responsibil- 19) http://www.roche.com/home/company/
ities between the Board and management are com_gov/com_gov_arti.htm
governed by the Bylaws18).
Annual Report 2004 55Corporate Governance
deposited within a specified period before the date Information policy
of a meeting and an admittance card must be • As provided by §33 of the Articles of Incorpo-
issued in the shareholder’s name, as provided in ration20), corporate notices are published in the
§12 of the Articles of Incorporation. Any share- Swiss Official Gazette of Commerce (Schwei-
holder can elect to be represented by another zerisches Handelsamtsblatt) and in other daily
shareholder at an Annual General Meeting. The newspapers designated by the Board of Directors
Articles of Incorporation contain no restrictions (Basler Zeitung,Finanz und Wirtschaft,L’Agefi,Le
on the exercise ofvoting rights,and the only quo- Temps,Neue Zürcher Zeitung).
rum requirements are those stipulated in §16. • Roche reports its half-year and full-year results
• Under §10.2 ofthe Articles ofIncorporation,share- inbusiness reports published in print and online
holders representing shares with a nominal value of formats and at media events. In addition, first-
at least 1,000,000 Swiss francs can request the place- and third-quarter sales figures are published each
ment of items of business on the agenda of an year in April and October.Current dates ofpubli-
Annual General Meeting. This must be done no cations are available in English and German on
later than 60 days before the date ofthe meeting. the Internet21).
• All relevant information and documents,includ-
Change of control and defensive measures ing all other media releases and presentations
• The Articles of Incorporation contain no provi- to analyst and investor conferences, are avail-
sions on the mandatory bid rule.Swiss law applies. able in English and German on the Internet.
• There are no change-of-control clauses. Those Further publications can be ordered by e-mail,
components of remuneration based on Roche fax or telephone (basel.webmaster@roche.com;
NES would be terminated in the event ofan acqui- tel.+41 (0)61 688 83 39;fax +41 (0)61 688 43 43).
sition, and vesting period restrictions on pre- • The contact address for Investor Relations is:
existing awards would be removed,so that all such F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Investor Relations,
options could be immediately exercised. Corporate Finance, 4070 Basel, Switzerland;
tel.+41(0)61 688 88 80,fax +41(0)61 691 00 14.
• Additional information,including details on spe-
cific contact persons,is available on the Internet22).
Non-applicability/negative disclosure
It is expressly noted that any information not con-
tained or mentioned herein is non-applicable or its
omission is to be construed as a negative declara-
tion (according to the requirements of the SWX
Corporate Governance Directive, including the
Commentary).
20) http://www.roche.com/home/company/
com_gov/com_gov_arti.htm
21) http://www.roche.com/home/media/med_events.htm
22) http://www.roche.com/home/investors/inv-contact.htm
56 Annual Report 2004Corporate Governance
Compliance Officer
The Compliance Officer is committed to ensuring
that Roche corporate principles are consistently
complied with throughout the Roche Group and
also serves as a contact person for shareholders,
employees, customers, suppliers and the general
public on issues relating to the implementation of
and compliance with these principles. Employees
and other parties who become aware of violations
of Roche corporate principles can and should
bring them to the attention of their managers or
supervisors or report them to the Compliance
Officer (Andreas Greuter, direct phone number:
+41(0) 61 688 75 37). Such disclosures will be
treated as confidential.Employees who make such
disclosures will not be penalised by the Company
for doing so,but are not immune from prosecution
for legal violations. The Compliance Officer sub-
mits regular reports to the Audit and Corporate
Governance Committee.
Annual Report 2004 57Making diabetes easier to live with
The number of people with diabetes has risen sharply
in recent years and, according to a WHO estimate, will
reach 300 million by 2025. The situation is already
being described as a global epidemic. Diabetes is
associated with serious complications, including
blindness, heart attack, stroke, kidney damage and
limb amputations. Many of these problems can be
prevented or improved through regular blood glucose
monitoring and the right insulin regimen – which
means that health systems as well as patients stand to
benefit.
Thirty years ago the idea of people with diabetes mon-
itoring their own glucose as they went about their
daily lives seemed unthinkable; now it’s the norm.
Roche Diagnostics has had a major hand in bringing
about this change. Today, small, easy-to-use glucose
meters like Accu-Chek Compact can match the pre-
cision and accuracy of a laboratory, and our latest
software for personal digital assistants now makes it
possible to manage glucose and insulin data together.
But the story doesn’t end there. We want to make life
even simpler and safer for people with diabetes. For
example, by finding ways to measure blood glucose
without having to take a blood sample; and by devel-
oping insulin pumps that allow continuous insulin
delivery. Our long-term goal is to create an artificial
pancreas. This would be a huge step forward in the
fight against diabetes.
Monitoring
Monitoring devices are not just for people with dia-
betes. The benefits of using a compact high-tech self-
monitoring device are just as real for patients taking
anticoagulants, who need quick, reliable information
about their coagulation status.
And specific diagnostic tests and systems play a
vitalrole in monitoring other types of therapy as well.
For example, they help doctors to track patients’
responses to anti-HIV therapy and, when necessary,
make the right treatment changes at the right time.
58 Annual Report 2004‘Self-monitoring gives me independence and
security – in short, a better quality of life!’
Gudrun Schindler (43),who lives in the Schwäbische Alb region in Germany,advises people with diabetes.
She knows what she’s talking about: for the last 21 years she has been checking her own blood glucose several times a day –
with Roche Accu-Chek systems.
Predisposition Early detecion Prevention Diagnosis Therapy Monitoring
Annual Report 2004 59Finance in brief
Net income in millions of CHF
2004 6,641
2003 3,069
2002 –4,026
Net income continuing businesses before exceptional items in millions of CHF
2004 4,343
2003 3,371
2002a) 3,072
EBITDA continuing businesses in millions of CHF
2004 9,231
2003 8,038
2002 7,219
Net liquidity (year-end) in millions of CHF
2004 11,674
2003 5,908
2002 600
Debt (year-end) in millions of CHF
2004 8,960
2003 15,287
2002 22,350
Stock price of non-voting equity security (Genussschein; year-end) in CHF
2004 130.90
2003 124.75
2002 96.35
a) Excluding gain from LabCorp transactions.
60 Annual Report 2004Finance
During 2004 Roche Finance has contributed significantly to the excellent
Group results by supporting the divestment of the OTC business and
by creating the conditions for a balanced financial income in 2005. The
3.7 billion Swiss francs proceeds from the OTC divestment more than
covered the 1.8 billion Swiss francs cost for the acquisition of Igen. Debt
was reduced by a further 6.3 billion Swiss francs, resulting in significantly
lower interest expenses, and we also continued to reduce the risk
exposures of financial investments and foreign exchange transactions.
These Finance activities, coupled with the strong cash generation of
Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics evidenced by the EBITDA of 9.2 billion
Swiss francs, have led to an increase in the Group’s net liquidity of 5.8 billion
Swiss francs to 11.7 billion Swiss francs. The ratio of equity and minority
interests to total assets improved to 57% from 49%.
Erich Hunziker,ChiefFinancial Officer
Annual Report 2004 61Key figures
Key figures in millions of CHF
Roche Group Continuing businessesa)
% change % change
2004 2003 CHF LC 2004 2003 CHF LC
Sales 31,273 31,220 0 +3 29,522 27,190 +9 +12
Research and development 5,093 4,766 +7 +11 5,053 4,624 +9 +14
EBITDAb) 9,566 8,609 +11 +15 9,231 8,038 +15 +19
Operating profit before exceptional items 7,254 6,268 +16 +20 6,950 5,793 +20 +24
Operating profit 8,979 5,592 +61 +65 6,179 5,520 +12 +16
Financial income (359) (667) –46 (339) (630) –46
Net income before exceptional itemsc) – – – 4,343 3,371 +29
Net income 6,641 3,069 +116 4,339 3,074 +41
EPSd)before exceptional items in CHF – – – 5.07 3.97 +28
EPSd)in CHF 7.81 3.61 +116 5.09 3.62 +41
Research and development as % of sales 16.3 15.3 17.1 17.0
EBITDA as % of sales 30.6 27.6 31.3 29.6
Operating profit before exceptional items
as % of sales 23.2 20.1 23.5 21.3
Effective tax rate % 24.7 29.6 28.4 29.0
Net income as % of sales 21.2 9.8 14.7 11.3
Roche Group Roche Group
31 December 2004 31 December 2003
Net liquidity 11,674 5,908
Total assets 58,076 59,486
Equity and minority interests 33,293 29,164
Debt 8,960 15,287
Equity ratioe) 57% 49%
Debt-equity ratiof) 27% 52%
a) Continuing businesses includes the Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics businesses, treasury and other corporate activities.
Consumer Health (OTC) and Vitamins and Fine Chemicals are reported as discontinuing businesses.
b) EBITDA: Earnings before exceptional items and before interest and other financial income, tax, depreciation and
amortisation, including impairment. This corresponds to operating profit before exceptional items and before depreciation
and amortisation, including impairment.
c) Net income before exceptional items and EPS before exceptional items are calculated as shown on page 143.
d) EPS: Earnings per share and non-voting equity security (diluted).
e) Equity ratio: Equity and minority interests as a percentage of total assets.
f) Debt-equity ratio: Debt as a percentage of equity (including minority interests).
LC = local currencies
62 Annual Report 2004Finance – 2004 in brief
Above market sales growth
• Sales in two core businesses: up 12% in local currencies.
• Strongest growth in high-margin products and business areas.
Improved profitability in both Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics
• Operating profit (continuing businesses) before exceptional items:
increased by 24% in local currencies.
• Pharmaceuticals operating profit margin before exceptional items:
increased by 1.9 percentage points to 25.7%.
• Diagnostics operating profit margin before exceptional items:
increased by 2.4 percentage points to 21.4%.
• Continued high investment in R&D of over 5 billion Swiss francs.
• Funding of in-licensing deals by selective disposals of non-core products.
Divestment of OTC business
• Sale of Roche Consumer Health to Bayer.
• Sale of Chugai’s OTC business to Lion Corporation.
• Bayer deal includes five Pharmaceuticals production facilities reducing asset levels.
• Transactions realised total pre-tax gains of 2.3 billion Swiss francs.
• Both deals are cash transactions.
Completion of Igen acquisition
• Acquisition completed in February 2004 for 1.8 billion Swiss francs.
• Strengthens access to the diagnostics immunochemistry sector.
Continued debt restructuring
• Further restructuring, with more high-interest debt instruments retired.
• Debt decreased by 6.3 billion Swiss francs.
• Interest expenses reduced by 335 million Swiss francs.
• Exceptional pre-tax income of 908 million Swiss francs from bond conversion
and redemption.
Reduced financial risks
• Risk exposures of financial assets and foreign exchange transactions reduced.
Increased net liquidity
• Increased to 11.7 billion Swiss francs from 5.9 billion Swiss francs.
Increased net income
• Increase in net income: 116% or 3.6 billion Swiss francs.
• Increase in net income (continuing businesses) before exceptional items:
29% or 1.0 billion Swiss francs.
Annual Report 2004 63Table of Contents
Finance
Roche Group 65
Financial Review 65
Roche Group Consolidated
Financial Statements 76
Notes to the Roche Group
Consolidated Financial Statements 81
Report of the Group Auditors 139
Multi-Year Overview 140
Supplementary Net Income
and EPS Information 143
Roche Securities 144
Roche Holding Ltd, Basel 146
Financial Statements 146
Notes to the Financial Statements 148
Appropriation of Available Earnings 150
Report of the Statutory Auditors 151
64 Annual Report 2004Financial Review
Operating results (continuing businesses before exceptional items)
Sales: 12% increase in sales, with both core businesses gaining market share
The Roche Group recorded sales of 29.5 billion Swiss francs from its continuing businesses in 2004, which
represents an increase of 12% in local currencies (9% in Swiss francs). Growth in both divisions was well ahead
of the respective market growth. In Pharmaceuticals this was driven by Roche’s successful oncology franchise
including first-time sales for Avastin and Tarceva of some 700 and 20 million Swiss francs respectively. There was
also strong growth in the virology franchise, including Pegasys+Copegus, and the transplantation franchise with
products such as CellCept and Valcyte/Cymevene. In Diagnostics the major drivers were Diabetes Care, Molecular
Diagnostics and Immunodiagnostics, where sales grew well ahead of the market rate.
Sales (continuing businesses)in millions of CHF
% change % change
2004 2003 (CHF) (local currencies)
Pharmaceuticals 21,695 19,781 +10 +13
Of which
– Roche prescription 13,970 13,243 +5 +8
– Genentech prescription 4,522 3,382 +34 +45
– Chugai prescription 3,203 3,156 +1 +3
Diagnostics 7,827 7,409 +6 +8
Sales (continuing businesses) 29,522 27,190 +9 +12
Divisional results
Operating profit before exceptional items increased by 24% in local currencies (20% in Swiss francs) to 7.0 billion
Swiss francs. Pharmaceuticals increased its operating profit margin to 25.7%, an increase of 1.9 percentage points,
while Diagnostics improved by 2.4 percentage points to 21.4%. This was achieved by the strong sales growth and
increased income from product divestments more than covering the additional spending for newly launched
products, upcoming launches and investment in the development pipeline.
Divisional results (continuing businesses before exceptional items) in millions of CHF
Operating
Operating profit before
Divisional EBITDA profit before exceptional
sales to third as % of exceptional items
2004 parties EBITDA sales items as % of sales
Pharmaceuticals 21,695 7,079 32.6 5,573 25.7
Of which
– Roche prescription 13,970 4,554 32.6 3,642 26.1
– Genentech prescription 4,522 1,892 41.8 1,444 31.9
– Chugai prescription 3,203 633 19.8 487 15.2
Diagnostics 7,827 2,444 31.2 1,675 21.4
Other – (292) – (298) –
Group total (continuing businesses) 29,522 9,231 31.3 6,950 23.5
2003
Pharmaceuticals 19,781 6,234 31.5 4,698 23.8
Of which
– Roche prescription 13,243 4,303 32.5 3,354 25.3
– Genentech prescription 3,382 1,327 39.2 882 26.1
– Chugai prescription 3,156 604 19.1 462 14.6
Diagnostics 7,409 2,111 28.5 1,405 19.0
Other – (307) – (310) –
Group total (continuing businesses) 27,190 8,038 29.6 5,793 21.3
Annual Report 2004 65Financial Review
Pharmaceuticals: Operating profit increased by 23% in local currencies (19% in Swiss francs) to 5.6 billion
Swiss francs, representing 25.7% of sales compared to 23.8% in 2003. EBITDA showed a similarly strong result
increasing to 7.1 billion Swiss francs, a rise of 18% in local currencies. The EBITDA margin increased to 32.6%.
The higher profitability is driven largely by 13% local currency sales growth and under-proportional growth in
marketing and distribution, administration and amortisation of intangible assets. Investments in research and
development grew at 17% in local currencies to reach 4.4 billion Swiss francs or 20% of sales. This includes
in-licensing investments of 250 million Swiss francs, which were funded by gains on product disposals of
430million Swiss francs.
Roche prescription: The operating profit margin of the Roche prescription business increased by 0.8 percentage
points to 26.1%. Marketing and distribution and amortisation of intangible assets grew under-proportionately.
Investment in research and development grew significantly faster than sales, driven by the strong development
pipeline and in-licensing investments. Royalty expenses for licensed in products also increased. These increases
have been largely funded by selective disposals of non-core products.
Genentech prescription: The business achieved further strong sales and profit growth, with operating profit
upby 77% in local currencies (64% in Swiss francs). The operating profit margin increased to 31.9% from 26.1%
despite the additional spending for marketing and promotional programs to support commercial and pipeline
products, primarily Avastin, Tarceva, Raptiva, Xolair, MabThera/Rituxan and Herceptin. Additional expenses were
also incurred for the expansion of the infrastructure necessary to support the sales growth and the charges of
48million Swiss francs related to the discontinuation of the commercialisation of Nutropin Depot.
Chugai prescription:This business posted an operating profit of 487 million Swiss francs and the operating profit
margin reached 15.2% compared to 14.6% in 2003. This strong performance is the result of the sales growth.
Second half-year 2004 operating profitability of 15.3% was significantly lower than the 21.6% in the comparative
period in 2003, driven by the restructuring expenses for the early retirement programme. Without this impact,
2004 showed as in 2003 a significantly higher operating profitability in the second half of the year, which is
basically due to the Japanese pattern of relatively low sales in the first quarter following high fourth-quarter sales
in the previous year.
Diagnostics: Operating profit increased by 19% to 1.7 billion with an increase in the operating margin of
2.4 percentage points to 21.4%. EBITDA increased by 16% to 2.4 billion Swiss francs, resulting in an EBITDA
margin of 31.2%. The main driver of these results is the further sales growth. In addition there was higher royalty
income in 2004, which was broadly equivalent to the net effect in the 2003 results of the income from legal
settlements and product disposals and costs of Disetronic restructuring charges. The additional 2004
amortisation expenses of intangible assets arising from the Igen acquisition were basically equivalent to the
royalty expenses previously paid to Igen.
Other: This includes the costs of Corporate Headquarters.
66 Annual Report 2004Financial Review
Group operating results
Operating profit (continuing businesses before exceptional items) in millions of CHF
% change % change
2004 2003 (CHF) (local currencies)
Sales 29,522 27,190 +9 +12
Cost of sales (6,556) (6,097) +8 +9
Gross profit 22,966 21,093 +9 +13
Marketing and distribution (8,275) (7,817) +6 +10
Research and development (5,053) (4,624) +9 +14
Administration (1,398) (1,360) +3 +6
Amortisation of intangible assets (1,000) (986) +1 +6
Other operating income 1,727 1,316 +31 +38
Other operating expense (2,017) (1,829) +10 +13
Operating profit before exceptional items
(continuing businesses) 6,950 5,793 +20 +24
Gross profit: The gross profit margin improved by 0.2 percentage points to 77.8%, reflecting growth in high-
margin products as well as the effects of continuing productivity improvements.
Marketing and distribution: The increase was due to the support for newly launched products such as
Pegasys+Copegus, Fuzeon, Xolair, Raptiva, Avastin and Tarceva as well as marketing activities in the growing
Diagnostics business. However, marketing and distribution as a percentage of sales decreased by 0.7 percentage
points to 28.0% as the increase in expenditure was less than the sales growth.
Research and development: The increase was mainly due to significantly increased activities to support the
strong development pipeline, which includes in-licensed and opt-in compounds. Research and development
costs as a percentage of sales was 17.1% in 2004, an increase of 0.1 of a percentage point compared to 2003.
ForPharmaceuticals, which accounts for 86% of the Group’s research and development expenses, they increased
by 0.4 percentage points to 20.1% of sales.
Administration:The increase was in part due to an alignment of the infrastructure at Genentech reflecting the
continuing growth of the business, and increased legal expenses.
Amortisation of intangible assets: The increase is due to the intangible assets acquired in the Disetronic
and Igen acquisitions. The 2004 results include 50 million Swiss francs for Igen (representing 10 months since
acquisition) and a full year’s charge of 32 million Swiss francs for Disetronic (the 2003 results only included
8months of amortisation).
Other operating income: This increase was due to product divestments such as Soriatane, with gains on
product divestments totalling 431 million Swiss francs compared to 134 million Swiss francs in 2003. These gains
were used to fund the increased level of in-licensing activity. Royalty income also increased.
Other operating expense:This increase was basically due to higher royalty expenses on in-licensed products
such as MabThera/Rituxan and Xolair. In addition there were 31 million Swiss francs of charges for intangible
asset impairment, in particular resulting from Genentech’s decision to discontinue the commercialisation of
Nutropin Depot.
Annual Report 2004 67Financial Review
Discontinuing operations
Discontinuing operationsin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Sales 1,751 4,030
Operating profit before exceptional items 304 475
OTC business:Sales of non-prescription medicines increased by 1% (–1% in Swiss francs) to 1,751 million Swiss
francs. Operating profit before exceptional items was 304 million Swiss francs, which includes restructuring costs
of 17 million Swiss francs in 2004.
Vitamins and Fine Chemicals business: Effective 30 September 2003, after receiving the final regulatory
approvals, the Group completed the sale of its global Vitamins and Fine Chemicals business to the Dutch
company DSM. The 2003 results of the Roche Group include the results of the Vitamins and Fine Chemicals
business up until 30 September 2003.
Exceptional items and non-operating results
Exceptional items and non-operating resultsin millions of CHF
Continuing Discontinuing
businesses businesses Group
2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003
Operating profit before exceptional items 6,950 5,793 304 475 7,254 6,268
Amortisation of goodwill (572) (489) (7) (8) (579) (497)
Major legal cases – 216 – – – 216
Changes in Group organisation (199) – 2,503 (395) 2,304 (395)
Operating profit 6,179 5,520 2,800 72 8,979 5,592
Income from associated companies (43) (44) – – (43) (44)
Financial income (339) (630) (20) (37) (359) (667)
Exceptional income from bond conversion
and redemption 908 – – – 908 –
Profit before taxes 6,705 4,846 2,780 35 9,485 4,881
Income taxes (1,902) (1,406) (443) (39) (2,345) (1,445)
Profit after taxes 4,803 3,440 2,337 (4) 7,140 3,436
Minority interests (464) (366) (35) (1) (499) (367)
Net income 4,339 3,074 2,302 (5) 6,641 3,069
Earnings per share
and non-voting equity security
Basic (CHF) 5.16 3.67 – – 7.90 3.66
Diluted (CHF) 5.09 3.62 – – 7.81 3.61
Amortisation of goodwill: Goodwill amortisation in 2004 from the Disetronic and Igen acquisitions was
57 million Swiss francs (versus 38 million Swiss francs in 2003) and 88 million Swiss francs respectively. Roche
continued to amortise goodwill in 2004, including that held by Genentech, but presents this as an exceptional item
in view of International Financial Reporting Standards changes that will be implemented in 2005.
68 Annual Report 2004Financial Review
Major legal cases:There were no significant developments in 2004 and no additional income or expenses were
recorded.
Changes in Group organisation:In 2004 the Group announced the sale of Roche Consumer Health, including
five Roche prescription manufacturing sites to Bayer. The sale was substantially completed by the year-end,
covering the majority of the sites and businesses involved. In addition Chugai completed the sale of their OTC
business in Japan to Lion Corporation. The total pre-tax gain on these sales in 2004 was 2.3 billion Swiss francs.
This includes impairments and restructuring charges in Roche’s prescription business totalling 276 million Swiss
francs. The 2003 results include the losses on the sale of the Vitamins and Fine Chemicals business totalling
395million Swiss francs.
Operating profit: Overall operating profit increased by 3.4 billion Swiss francs or 65% in local currencies. This
follows from the 2.3 billion Swiss franc realised gain on the sale of the Consumer Health (OTC) business compared
to the 0.4 billion Swiss franc loss on the disposal of the Vitamins and Fine Chemicals business in 2003. Before
exceptional items, operating profit increased by 20% in local currencies to 7.3 billion Swiss francs.
Income from associated companies: The result of associates was not significant.
Financial income: Financial income showed further improvement compared to 2003. Net income from equity
securities was 38 million Swiss francs compared to a net expense of 168 million Swiss francs in 2003. The
comparative result includes impairment losses of 313 million Swiss francs, compared to 63 million Swiss francs
in 2004. Ongoing income from both equity and debt securities decreased due to lower holdings. Total interest
expenses were 645 million Swiss francs, a reduction of 34%, due to the retirement of various debt instruments
and the refinancing of the obligations covering convertible debt instruments that was carried out in 2003.
Netforeign exchange gains were 42 million Swiss francs compared to 270 million Swiss francs in 2003 following
the reduction in foreign exchange exposures. A full analysis of financial income is given in Note 15 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Exceptional income from bond conversion and redemption: As part of the continuing refinancing and
restructuring of the Group’s debt, the ‘LYONs IV’ and ‘LYONs III’ notes were called for redemption and the Group
also redeemed part of the ‘Chameleon’ bond by a public tender. After the ‘LYONs IV’ redemption call almost all of
the outstanding notes were called for conversion to Genentech shares by the holders. In addition, the Group
reassessed the likely future cash outflows for the ‘LYONs V’ notes and concluded it was appropriate to consider
the first call date of 25 July 2007 as the most probable date of cash flows. Accordingly, using the effective interest
rate method, the Group recorded a pre-tax expense of 94 million Swiss francs to allow the accreted debt value to
meet the issue price plus accrued original issue discount (OID) at 25 July 2007. A net pre-tax gain of 908 million
Swiss francs arose from these transactions, primarily from the Group’s partial disposal of its interest in Genentech
on the conversion of the ‘LYONs IV’ notes. Due to its material impact this is presented as an exceptional item in
the income statement.
Income taxes: The Group’s continuing businesses’ effective tax rate was 28.4% compared to the 2003 rate of
29.0%. 2004 included the recognition of certain previously unrecognised tax losses and other local effects which
offset the negative effects on the tax rate of the conversion and redemption of bonds. The relatively high total
Group effective tax rate in the 2003 results is caused by the impairment charges on the Vitamins and Fine
Chemicals business. A reconciliation of the effective tax rate is given in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
Minority interests: Income applicable to minorities increased due to the continually improving profit
contribution by Genentech and Chugai. 293 million Swiss francs relate to Genentech and 197 million Swiss francs
to Chugai.
Annual Report 2004 69Financial Review
Net income:The Group increased its net income by 116% in 2004 following the improved operating results and
the exceptional gains (after tax and minority interests) of 1.9 billion Swiss francs on the OTC divestment and of
0.7 billion Swiss francs from the bond conversions and redemptions. Excluding these and other exceptional items,
net income on a continuing businesses basis increased by 972 million Swiss francs or 29%.
Cash flows and net liquidity
Cash flow statementin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Cash generated from business operations 9,748 9,190
(Increase) decrease in working capital 227 (791)
Income (costs) of major legal cases received (paid) (131) 395
Other operating cash flows (1,019) (775)
Operating activities before income taxes 8,825 8,019
Income taxes paid (all activities) (1,490) (766)
Operating activities 7,335 7,253
Investing activities (2,019) 1,563
Financing activities (7,863) (6,745)
Net effect of currency translation on cash (124) (225)
Increase (decrease) in cash (2,671) 1,846
Under the terms of the agreement with Bayer, the majority of the proceeds from the divestment of the Consumer
Health (OTC) business amounting to 2,886 million Swiss francs were transferred to the Group on 1 January 2005.
These amounts are not included in the above table. See also Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Operating cash flows: The Group’s business operations continued to show strong cash generation of 9.7 billion
Swiss francs, driven by continued growth in EBITDA. Income taxes paid in 2004 were at a more normal level when
compared to 2003, which included large income tax receivables recovered from tax authorities. The cash flows of
the OTC business are included in the above figures. EBITDA for this business in 2004 was 335 million Swiss francs
(2003: 352 million Swiss francs). The cash flows of the Vitamins and Fine Chemicals business are included in the
2003 figures. EBITDA for this business in 2003 was 219 million Swiss francs.
Investing cash flows:The largest investing cash flow was the 1.8 billion Swiss francs paid in respect of the Igen
acquisition. Other investing cash flows also include expenditure on property, plant and equipment. In both 2004
and 2003 there was a large net cash inflow from sales of part of the Group’s portfolio of marketable securities in
order to fund the repayment of the debt instruments, and also in 2003 for the vitamin case payments. The disposal
of the OTC business increased cash by 0.8 billion Swiss francs in 2004, with the main proceeds of 2.9 billion Swiss
francs received from Bayer on 1 January 2005.
Financing cash flows: The most significant financing cash flows in 2004 and 2003 relate to dividend payments
and the redemption of debt instruments. Dividends paid in 2004 were 1.4 billion Swiss francs (2003: 1.2 billion
Swiss francs) and cash used for the redemption of debt instruments was 3.0 billion Swiss francs in 2004 (used for
the ‘LYONs III’ notes and ‘Chameleon’ bonds) compared to 3.1 billion Swiss francs in 2003 (used for the ‘Bullet’
bonds and the ‘LYONs II’ notes). The redemption and conversion of the ‘LYONs IV’ notes in 2004 had a cash impact
of only 5 million Swiss francs as the debt obligation was almost entirely settled by the delivery of Genentech
shares. 2003 cash flows also included 2.6 billion Swiss francs proceeds from three issues from the Group’s
European Medium Term Note programme, and an outflow of 1.6 billion Swiss francs for the refinancing of the
instruments covering convertible debt obligations.
70 Annual Report 2004Financial Review
Net liquidityin millions of CHF
31 December 31 December
2004 2003 % change
Cash and marketable securities 12,999 16,095 –19
Receivable from Bayer Group collected on 1 January 2005 2,886 – –
Financial long-term assets and restricted cash 1,999 2,093 –4
Derivative financial instruments, net (19) 209 –
Own equity instruments 2,769 2,798 –1
Financial assets 20,634 21,195 –3
Long-term debt (6,947) (10,246) –32
Short-term debt (2,013) (5,041) –60
Total debt (8,960) (15,287) –41
Net liquidity 11,674 5,908 +98
Net liquidity increased in 2004, the main driver being a strong cash inflow from operating activities of 7.5 billion
Swiss francs. The inflow of 3.7 billion Swiss francs from the divestment of the Consumer Health (OTC) business
more than covered the outflow of 1.8 billion Swiss francs for the acquisition of Igen. The ‘LYONs IV’ notes
conversion reduced debt and increased net liquidity by 1.2 billion Swiss francs. The ‘LYONs III’ and ‘Chameleon’
transactions affect both debt and cash and therefore have little effect on net liquidity.
Balance sheet
Balance sheetin millions of CHF
31 December 31 December
2004 2003 % change
Long-term assets 28,670 29,820 –4
Current assets 29,406 29,666 –1
Total assets 58,076 59,486 –2
Equity 28,223 23,570 +20
Minority interests 5,070 5,594 –9
Non-current liabilities 14,882 18,658 –20
Current liabilities 9,901 11,664 –15
Total equity, minority interests and liabilities 58,076 59,486 –2
Long-term assets: The Igen acquisition increased goodwill and intangible assets by 2.1 billion Swiss francs.
Thesale of the OTC business reduced long-term assets by 0.6 billion Swiss francs. The fall in the USdollar to 1.13
against the Swiss franc by end of 2004 reduced long-term assets in Swiss franc terms since many of the Group’s
production facilities and intangible assets are US dollar denominated.
Current assets: Current assets increased by the 3.7 billion Swiss francs proceeds from the sale of the OTC
business and by the cash generated from operations. Current assets decreased by the 1.8 billion Swiss francs
cash paid for Igen, the 1.4 billion Swiss francs cash used for payment of dividends and the 3.0 billion Swiss francs
cash used in the redemption of the ‘LYONs III’ notes and the partial redemption of the ‘Chameleon’ bonds. The
sale of the OTC business reduced current assets, mainly inventories and trade receivables by 0.5 billion Swiss
francs.
Equity: The most significant movements were the net income of 6.6 billion Swiss francs and the dividend payment
of 1.4 billion Swiss francs.
Annual Report 2004 71Financial Review
Minority interests: The conversion of the ‘LYONs IV’ notes led to an increase in the minority ownership of
Genentech. In Swiss franc terms this was offset by the fall in the US dollar against the Swiss franc.
Non-current liabilities: The major movement is that the ‘Sumo’ bonds, with a book value of 1.1 billion Swiss
francs due in March 2005, are now classified as short-term debt. The partial redemption of the ‘Chameleon’ bonds
reduced long-term debt by 0.6 billion Swiss francs. The movement in the US dollar rates reduced the Swiss francs
carrying value of the Group’s US dollar denominated debt instruments.
Current liabilities:The conversion and redemption of the ‘LYONs IV’ and ‘LYONs III’ notes reduced short-term
debt by 3.5 billion Swiss francs. This was partly compensated for by the reclassification of the ‘Sumo’ bonds from
long-term debt.
Strong financial condition: The Group remains solidly financed, with equity (including minority interests)
representing 57% of total assets and 83% of total assets financed long-term.
International Financial Reporting Standards
The Roche Group has been using International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) to report its consolidated
results since 1990. Since late 2003 the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) has published a number
of new and revised standards, which the Group will implement effective 1 January 2005. These are fully discussed
in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Those changes that the Group expects to have the most
significant impact are described below.
Equity compensation plans: The fair value of equity compensation plans awarded to employees will be
estimated at grant date and recorded as an expense over the vesting period. This change will be applied
retrospectively, using certain transitional restrictions. Based on the initial work carried out and applying the
transitional restrictions, the Group estimates that impact on operating income and net income for 2004 would be
approximately 143 million Swiss francs and 55 million Swiss francs respectively. Due to the transitional rules these
are not indicative of the future impacts.
Goodwill amortisation: Effective 1 January 2005 the amortisation of goodwill will cease. Goodwill will continue
to be tested for impairment. The standard requires prospective application. Had the standard been applied in
2004, then goodwill amortisation expenses of 579 million Swiss francs would not have been recorded and net
income would be 463 million Swiss francs higher.
Recognition of intangible assets: The revised standards on intangible assets and business combinations will
typically result in more intangible assets being recognised from acquisitions and in-licensing collaborations and
alliances than previously.
Financial instruments: The Group already fully applies the existing IAS 39 on ‘Financial Instruments’ and has
done so since 2001. The changes to the standards on financial instruments are not expected to have a major
effect.
Equity and minority interests: Minority interests will be included as part of the Group’s equity and not as
a separate category on the balance sheet. This will increase the Group’s equity by 5,070 million Swiss francs,
effective 1 January 2005.
The Group does not expect that the other new and revised standards will have a significant effect on the Group’s
results and financial position.
72 Annual Report 2004Financial Review
Financial risks
Value-at-Risk and Earnings-at-Risk analysis tools
The Value-at-Risk (VaR) calculations are used to indicate within what ranges the value of the respective assets
or liabilities may fluctuate with a certain probability over a certain time period (holding period). The VaR measure
is a statistical measure, implicitly assuming that the value changes of the recent past are indicative to value
changes in the future. Market shocks are not included in this calculation, unless recently observed. The Group
conducts additional stress testing to take such possibilities into consideration. The Group uses statistically
relevant observation periods and applies holding periods, which reflect the time period required to change the
respective risk exposure if deemed appropriate. With longer holding periods, the probability of higher value
changes increases and so does the VaR measure.
Earnings-at-Risk (EaR) is equivalent to the VaR methodology, but rather than potential value changes, it indicates
the potential changes to profits (losses) with a certain probability and over a certain time period. The same
constraints and limitations apply to this methodology.
The VaR and EAR figures for interest rate risks are measured using a historical simulation approach. For each
historical scenario (representing all price and rate changes of all individual instruments over a specific 30-day
period in the past), all financial instruments are fully re-valued (using valuation models) and the total change in
value and earnings is determined. All other VaR figures are based on a ‘Delta normal’ approach assuming normal
market conditions. All VaR and EaR calculations below are based on 95% confidence level and a holding period
of 30 days.
The Group cannot predict future market movements. The VaR and EaR figures given below do not represent the
actual losses, which are expected or might be incurred on financial assets and liabilities, nor the possible worst
loss over the period stated, nor does it consider the effect of favourable changes in market rates.
Foreign exchange risk
The Group operates across the world and is exposed to movements in foreign currencies affecting its net income
and financial position, as expressed in Swiss francs.
Growth (continuing businesses)
Local Local
currencies % currencies % CHF % CHF %
2004 2003 2004 2003
Sales +12 +19 +9 +11
Operating profit before
exceptional items +24 +26 +20 +17
Exchange rates against the Swiss franc
31 December Average 31 December Average
2004 2004 2003 2003
1 USD 1.13 1.24 1.24 1.35
1 EUR 1.54 1.54 1.56 1.52
1 GBP 2.18 2.28 2.20 2.20
100 JPY 1.10 1.15 1.16 1.16
Annual Report 2004 73Financial Review
On average in 2004, the US dollar was considerably weaker against the Swiss franc than in 2003, and the euro
only slightly stronger against the Swiss franc. The total negative currency effect on sales growth of the continuing
businesses and on operating profit growth was 3 percentage points. In absolute terms, the sensitivity of Group
sales of continuing businesses to a change of the US dollar against the Swiss franc by 0.01 Swiss francs for the
average of 2004 was approximately 85 million Swiss francs, and the corresponding sensitivities for the euro and
yen were approximately 55 million Swiss francs and 30 million Swiss francs respectively.
The Group monitors its net currency exposures, and when appropriate, enters into transactions with the aim of
preserving the value of assets, commitments and anticipated transactions. The Group uses forward contracts,
swaps and foreign currency options to optimise certain anticipated foreign exchange revenues, cash flows and
financing transactions. In 2004, the Group further pursued a strategy to continuously lock-in favourable
developments of foreign exchange rates by entering into derivative contracts, thereby reducing the exposure to
potential future moves in foreign exchange rates. The foreign exchange transaction VaR remained at a low level
during 2004.
Foreign exchange risks in millions of CHF
31 December 31 December
2004 2003 % change
VaR of monetary positions 12 41 –70
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk arises from movements in interest rates which could have adverse effects on the Group’s net
income or financial position. Changes in interest rates cause variations in interest income and expenses on
interest-bearing assets and liabilities. In addition, they can affect the market value of certain financial assets,
liabilities and instruments. Where appropriate, the Group uses financial derivatives such as swaps and options to
manage its interest rate risk.
In 2004, the Group has further reduced its outstanding debt. In order to achieve a better match between the term
structure of assets and liabilities, the Group has also swapped a sizeable part of the remaining debt into floating
interest rates. As a consequence, the exposure to potential changes of interest rates has decreased and interest
rate VaR, measuring the potential change of the net market value of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities,
has declined.
The comparatively small risks from re-pricing or re-financing were contained at reasonable levels. However, the
Earnings-at-Risk (EaR) have slightly increased mainly as a result of the generally higher interest rate level which
allows more room for downward changes of interest rates.
Interest rate risksin millions of CHF
31 December 31 December
2004 2003 % change
VaR of instruments sensitive to interest rates 72 110 –35
EaR of instruments sensitive to interest rates 13 6 +117
Market risk of financial assets
Changes in the market value of cash and marketable securities can affect the net income or financial position of
the Group. Market risk arises from movements in stock prices, interest rates or foreign exchange rates.
74 Annual Report 2004Financial Review
The equity allocation in the Group’s portfolio of cash and marketable securities has been further reduced to
around 1.2 billion Swiss francs, down from the 1.4 billion Swiss francs at 31 December 2003 and the currency
allocation of these funds has changed to an extent as well. This small shift in the Group’s asset allocation resulted
in a slightly increased VaR position compared to last year. The calculated VaR figures exclude positions at
Genentech and Chugai who run their treasury operations independently.
Market risk of financial assets in millions of CHF
31 December 31 December
2004 2003 % change
VaR of cash and marketable securities 128 117 +9
Annual Report 2004 75Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Reference numbers indicate corresponding Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Consolidated income statement for year ended 31 December 2004 in millions of CHF
Continuing Discontinuing
businesses businesses Group
Sales4 29,522 1,751 31,273
Cost of sales (6,556) (626) (7,182)
Gross profit 22,966 1,125 24,091
Marketing and distribution (8,275) (727) (9,002)
Research and development4 (5,053) (40) (5,093)
Administration (1,398) (8) (1,406)
Amortisation of intangible assets19 (1,000) (26) (1,026)
Other operating income13 1,727 10 1,737
Other operating expenses14 (2,017) (30) (2,047)
Operating profit before exceptional items4 6,950 304 7,254
Amortisation of goodwill18 (572) (7) (579)
Major legal cases9 – – –
Changes in Group organisation3 (199) 2,503 2,304
Operating profit4 6,179 2,800 8,979
Income from associated companies20 (43) – (43)
Financial income15 (339) (20) (359)
Exceptional income from bond conversion
and redemption15 908 – 908
Profit before taxes 6,705 2,780 9,485
Income taxes16 (1,902) (443) (2,345)
Profit after taxes 4,803 2,337 7,140
Minority interests37 (464) (35) (499)
Net income 4,339 2,302 6,641
Earnings per share and non-voting equity security
Basic (CHF)35 5.16 – 7.90
Diluted (CHF)35 5.09 – 7.81
76 Annual Report 2004Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated income statement for year ended 31 December 2003in millions of CHF
Continuing Discontinuing
businesses businesses Group
Sales4 27,190 4,030 31,220
Cost of sales (6,097) (2,218) (8,315)
Gross profit 21,093 1,812 22,905
Marketing and distribution (7,817) (1,030) (8,847)
Research and development4 (4,624) (142) (4,766)
Administration (1,360) (90) (1,450)
Amortisation of intangible assets19 (986) (27) (1,013)
Other operating income13 1,316 19 1,335
Other operating expenses14 (1,829) (67) (1,896)
Operating profit before exceptional items4 5,793 475 6,268
Amortisation of goodwill18 (489) (8) (497)
Major legal cases9 216 – 216
Changes in Group organisation3 – (395) (395)
Operating profit4 5,520 72 5,592
Income from associated companies20 (44) – (44)
Financial income15 (630) (37) (667)
Profit before taxes 4,846 35 4,881
Income taxes16 (1,406) (39) (1,445)
Profit after taxes 3,440 (4) 3,436
Minority interests37 (366) (1) (367)
Net income 3,074 (5) 3,069
Earnings per share and non-voting equity security
Basic (CHF)35 3.67 – 3.66
Diluted (CHF)35 3.62 – 3.61
Annual Report 2004 77Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated balance sheetin millions of CHF
31 December 31 December
2004 2003
Long-term assets
Property, plant and equipment17 12,408 12,494
Goodwill18 5,532 5,206
Intangible assets19 6,340 6,945
Investments in associated companies20 55 110
Financial long-term assets22 1,227 2,093
Other long-term assets22 484 523
Deferred income tax assets16 1,047 900
Post-employment benefits11 1,577 1,549
Total long-term assets 28,670 29,820
Current assets
Inventories23 4,574 5,025
Accounts receivable24 6,781 6,774
Current income tax assets16 159 238
Other current assets25 2,007 1,534
Marketable securities26 10,394 10,819
Receivable from Bayer Group collected on 1 January 20057 2,886 –
Cash and cash equivalents27 2,605 5,276
Total current assets 29,406 29,666
Total assets 58,076 59,486
Equity
Share capital34 160 160
Non-voting equity securities (Genussscheine)34 p.m. p.m.
Own equity instruments34 (4,326) (4,583)
Retained earnings 36,212 30,985
Fair value and other reserves36 (3,823) (2,992)
Total equity 28,223 23,570
Minority interests37 5,070 5,594
Non-current liabilities
Long-term debt32 6,947 10,246
Deferred income tax liabilities16 3,564 3,133
Post-employment benefits11 2,744 2,755
Provisions30 683 1,470
Other non-current liabilities31 944 1,054
Total non-current liabilities 14,882 18,658
Current liabilities
Short-term debt32 2,013 5,041
Current income tax liabilities16 947 714
Provisions30 1,086 542
Accounts payable28 1,844 1,700
Accrued and other current liabilities29 4,011 3,667
Total current liabilities 9,901 11,664
Total equity, minority interests and liabilities 58,076 59,486
p.m. = pro memoria. Non-voting equity securities have no nominal value (see Note 34).
78 Annual Report 2004Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equityin millions of CHF
Year ended 31 December
2004 2003
Share capital34
Balance at 1 January and at 31 December 160 160
Non-voting equity securities (Genussscheine)34
Balance at 1 January and at 31 December p.m. p.m.
Own equity instruments34
Balance at 1 January (4,583) (5,853)
Acquisition of Disetronic3 – 240
Conversion of ‘Helveticus’ bonds32 – 202
Refinancing of instruments covering convertible debt obligations34 – 843
Other movements during the year 257 (15)
Balance at 31 December (4,326) (4,583)
Retained earnings
Balance at 1 January 30,985 29,145
Net income 6,641 3,069
Dividends paid34 (1,414) (1,229)
Balance at 31 December 36,212 30,985
Fair value and other reserves36
Balance at 1 January (2,992) (2,642)
Changes in fair value attributable to available-for-sale investments
and qualifying cash flow hedges 87 167
Fair value (gains) losses attributable to available-for-sale investments
and qualifying cash flow hedges recognised in the income statement 26 244
Fair value (gains) losses attributable to qualifying cash flow hedges
transferred to adjust the initial measurement of acquisition cost of assets
or other carrying amount of hedged assets or liabilities 43 –
Deferred income taxes and minority interests (25) (15)
Currency translation gains (losses) (962) (746)
Balance at 31 December (3,823) (2,992)
Total equity at 31 December 28,223 23,570
p.m. = pro memoria. Non-voting equity securities have no nominal value (see Note 34).
Annual Report 2004 79Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated cash flow statementin millions of CHF
Year ended 31 December
2004 2003
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations39 9,748 9,190
(Increase) decrease in working capital 227 (791)
Vitamin case payments8 (66) (638)
Igen litigation9 – 808
Genentech legal cases9 (65) 225
Payments made for defined benefit post-employment plans11 (653) (434)
Utilisation of restructuring provisions30 (163) (159)
Utilisation of other provisions30 (128) (67)
Other operating cash flows (75) (115)
Cash flows from operating activities, before income taxes paid 8,825 8,019
Income taxes paid (1,490) (766)
Total cash flows from operating activities 7,335 7,253
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment17 (2,344) (2,260)
Purchase of intangible assets19 (191) (233)
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 196 267
Disposal of intangible assets 12 2
Disposal of products13 431 134
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and associated companies3 (1,822) (897)
Divestments of subsidiaries and associated companies3 696 2,113
Interest and dividends received39 255 286
Sales of marketable securities 4,965 7,704
Purchases of marketable securities (4,281) (6,125)
Other investing cash flows 64 572
Total cash flows from investing activities (2,019) 1,563
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of long-term debt instruments32 – 2,635
Repayment of long-term debt instruments32 (3,039) (3,085)
Increase (decrease) in other long-term debt (1,156) (709)
Refinancing of instruments covering convertible debt obligations34 – (1,635)
Other transactions in own equity instruments34 237 (15)
Increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings (939) (2,528)
Interest and dividends paid39 (1,971) (1,748)
Genentech and Chugai stock repurchases and
exercised employee stock options at Genentech5, 6 (1,059) 368
Other financing cash flows 64 (28)
Total cash flows from financing activities (7,863) (6,745)
Net effect of currency translation on cash and cash equivalents (124) (225)
Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (2,671) 1,846
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 5,276 3,430
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year27 2,605 5,276
Under the terms of the agreement with Bayer, the majority of the proceeds from the divestment of the Consumer Health (OTC) business
amounting to 2,886 million Swiss francs were transferred to the Group on 1 January 2005. These amounts are not included in the above
table. See also Note 7.
80 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Reference numbers indicate corresponding Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
1. Summary of significant accounting policies
Basis of preparation of the consolidated financial statements
The consolidated financial statements of the Roche Group have been prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). They have been prepared using the historical cost convention except that,
as disclosed in the accounting policies below, certain items, including derivatives and available-for-sale
investments, are shown at fair value. They were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 27 January 2005
and are subject to approval by the shareholders on 28 February 2005.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of
contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements. If in the future such estimates and assumptions,
which are based on management’s best judgement at the date of the financial statements, deviate from the
actual circumstances, the original estimates and assumptions will be modified as appropriate in the year in which
the circumstances change. Where necessary, the comparatives have been reclassified or extended from the
previously reported results to take into account presentational changes.
Consolidation policy
These financial statements are the consolidated financial statements of Roche Holding Ltd, a company
registered in Switzerland, and its subsidiaries (‘the Group’).
The subsidiaries are those companies controlled, directly or indirectly, by Roche Holding Ltd, where control is
defined as the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise so as to obtain benefits from
its activities. This control is normally evidenced when Roche Holding Ltd owns, either directly or indirectly, more
than 50% of the voting rights or potential voting rights of a company’s share capital. Special Purpose Entities are
consolidated where the substance of the relationship is that the Special Purpose Entity is controlled by the Group.
Companies acquired during the year are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group,
and subsidiaries to be divested are included up to the date on which control passes from the Group. Companies
acquired exclusively to be resold in the next twelve months are not consolidated but are classified as financial
assets held-for-trading and carried at fair value. Inter-company balances and transactions and resulting
unrealised income are eliminated in full.
Investments in associated companies are accounted for by the equity method. These are companies over which
the Group exercises, or has the power to exercise, significant influence, but which it does not control. This is
normally evidenced when the Group owns 20% or more of the voting rights or potential voting rights of the
company. Balances and transactions with associated companies that result in unrealised income are eliminated
to the extent of the Group’s interest in the associated company. Interests in joint ventures are reported using the
line-by-line proportionate consolidation method.
Segment reporting
The Group’s primary format for segment reporting is business segments and the secondary format is
geographical segments. The risks and returns of the Group’s operations are primarily determined by the different
products that the Group produces rather than the geographical location of the Group’s operations. This is
reflected by the Group’s divisional management and organisational structure and the Group’s internal financial
reporting systems.
The Group has two divisions, Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics. Until its disposal on 30 September 2003 the
Group had a third division, Vitamins and Fine Chemicals. Within the Pharmaceuticals Division there are three
sub-divisions, Roche prescription, Genentech prescription and Chugai prescription. The three sub-divisions have
separate management and reporting structures within the Pharmaceuticals Division and are considered
separately reportable segments. The Consumer Health (OTC) business is also a separately reportable business
segment and is presented as a discontinuing business. Certain corporate activities that cannot be reasonably
allocated to the other reportable segments, such as the costs of Corporate Headquarters, are reported as
Annual Report 2004 81Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
‘Others’. The Group’s geographical segments are determined by geographical location and similarity of economic
environments.
Transfer prices between business segments are set on an arm’s length basis. Divisional assets and liabilities
consist of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, trade receivables/payables and
inventories. Other segment assets and liabilities consist of other assets and liabilities which can be reasonably
attributed to the reported business segments. These include pension assets/liabilities and provisions. Non-
segment assets and liabilities mainly include current and deferred income tax balances, and financial assets and
liabilities. These are principally cash, marketable securities, other investments and debt. Capital expenditure
comprises additions to goodwill, intangible assets and additions to property, plant and equipment, including
those arising from acquisitions.
Foreign currency translation
Most Group companies use their local currency as their measurement currency. Certain Group companies use
other currencies (namely US dollars, Swiss francs or euros) as their measurement currencies where this most
usefully represents the results and financial positions of these companies, given local economic conditions and
circumstances. Local transactions in other currencies are initially reported using the exchange rate at the date of
the transaction. Gains and losses from the settlement of such transactions and gains and losses on translation of
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies are included in income, except when they are
qualifying cash flow hedges or arise on monetary items that, in substance, form part of the Group’s net investment
in a foreign entity which are deferred into equity.
Upon consolidation, assets and liabilities of Group companies using measurement currencies other than Swiss
francs (foreign entities) are translated into Swiss francs using year-end rates of exchange. Sales, costs, expenses,
net income and cash flows are translated at the average rates of exchange for the year. Translation differences
due to the changes in exchange rates between the beginning and the end of the year and the difference between
net income translated at the average and year-end exchange rates are taken directly to equity. On the divestment
of a foreign entity, the identified cumulative currency translation differences relating to that foreign entity are
recognised in income as part of the gain or loss on divestment.
Revenues and cost of sales
Sales represent amounts received and receivable for goods supplied to customers after deducting trade
discounts, cash discounts and volume rebates and excluding sales and value added taxes. Revenues from the
sale of products are recognised upon transfer to the customer of significant risks and rewards, usually upon
shipment. Trade discounts, cash discounts and volume rebates are recorded on an accrual basis consistent with
the recognition of the related sales. Other revenues are recorded as earned or as the services are performed. Cost
of sales includes the corresponding direct production costs and related production overhead of goods sold and
services rendered. Start-up costs between validation and the achievement of normal production capacity are
expensed as incurred. Royalty income is recognised on an accrual basis in accordance with the economic
substance of the agreement and is reported as part of other operating income.
Research and development
Research costs are charged against income as incurred. Development costs are capitalised as intangible assets,
in particular when it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group. Such intangible assets are
amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of the expected benefit, and are reviewed for impairment at
each balance sheet date. Other development costs are charged against income as incurred since the criteria for
their recognition as an asset are not met.
In-licensing, milestone and other up-front receipts and payments
Certain Group companies, notably Genentech, receive from third-parties up-front, milestone and other similar
non-refundable payments relating to the sale or licensing of products or technology. Revenue associated with
performance milestones is recognised based on achievement of the milestones, as defined in the respective
agreements. Revenue from non-refundable up-front payments and licence fees is initially reported as deferred
income and is recognised in income as earned over the period of the development collaboration or the
manufacturing obligation. Payments made by Group companies to third parties and associated companies for
82 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
such items are charged against income as research and development costs unless it is probable that future
economic benefits will flow to the Group, which is normally evidenced by regulatory approval. In this case they
are capitalised as development costs and amortised as described above. In practice this means that most in-
licensing and milestone payments for pharmaceutical products are expensed as incurred, as in most cases they
have not yet gained regulatory approval. Receipts and payments between consolidated subsidiaries, such as
between Genentech, Chugai and other Roche Group subsidiaries, are eliminated on consolidation, except to the
extent of any impacts on minority interests.
Employee benefits
Wages, salaries, social security contributions, paid annual leave and sick leave, bonuses, and non-monetary
benefits are accrued in the year in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Group. Where
the Group provides long-term employee benefits, the cost is accrued to match the rendering of the services by
the employees concerned.
The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution plans throughout the world. The cost
for the year for defined benefit plans is determined using the projected unit credit method. This reflects service
rendered by employees to the dates of valuation and incorporates actuarial assumptions primarily regarding
discount rates used in determining the present value of benefits, projected rates of remuneration growth, and
long-term expected rates of return for plan assets. Discount rates are based on the market yields of high-quality
corporate bonds in the country concerned. Differences between assumptions and actual experiences and effects
of changes in actuarial assumptions are allocated over the estimated average remaining working lives of
employees, where these differences exceed a defined corridor. Past service costs are allocated over the average
period until the benefits become vested. Pension assets and liabilities in different defined benefit plans are not
offset unless the Group has a legally enforceable right to use the surplus in one plan to settle obligations in the
other plan. The recognition of pension assets is limited to the net total of any unrecognised actuarial losses and
past service costs and the present value of any future refunds from the plans or reductions in future contributions
to the plans. The Group’s contributions to the defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement in
the year to which they relate.
The Group operates several equity compensation plans, including separate plans at Genentech and Chugai. For
fixed plans, such as the Roche Option Plan and the equivalent plans at Genentech and Chugai, no expense is
recognised at the date of issue as the exercise price is greater or equal to the fair value of the underlying equity
instrument at the date of issue. Subsequent cash flows from any exercises of vested grants are recorded to equity
or, in the case of Genentech and Chugai plans, to balance sheet minority interests. For performance related and
variable plans, such as the Roche Performance Share Plan or the Stock Appreciation Rights, an expense is
accrued over the vesting period for the difference between the exercise price and the fair value of the underlying
equity instrument.
Taxation
Income taxes include all taxes based upon the taxable profits of the Group, including withholding taxes payable
on the distribution of retained earnings within the Group. Other taxes not based on income, such as property and
capital taxes, are included within other operating expenses or financial income according to their nature.
Liabilities for income taxes, mainly withholding taxes, which could arise on the remittance of retained earnings,
principally relating to subsidiaries, are only recognised where there is a probable intention to remit such earnings.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognised on temporary differences between the tax bases of
assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred income tax assets relating
to the carry-forward of unused tax losses are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit
will be available against which the unused tax losses can be utilised.
Current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when the income taxes are levied by the same
taxation authority and when there is a legally enforceable right to offset them. Deferred income taxes are
determined based on the currently enacted tax rates applicable in each tax jurisdiction where the Group operates.
Annual Report 2004 83Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are initially recorded at cost of purchase or construction and are depreciated on
a straight-line basis, except for land, which is not depreciated. Estimated useful lives of major classes of
depreciable assets are as follows:
Buildings and land improvements 40 years
Machinery and equipment 5–15 years
Office equipment 3 years
Motor vehicles 5 years
The estimated useful life of the assets is regularly reviewed and, if necessary, the future depreciation charge is
accelerated. Investment grants or similar assistance for projects are initially recorded as deferred income (in other
non-current liabilities) and are subsequently recognised as income over the useful lives of the related assets.
Repairs and maintenance costs are recognised as expenses as incurred. Borrowing costs are not capitalised.
Leases
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all of the risks and rewards of
ownership are classified as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the start of the lease at fair value, or
the present value of the minimum lease payments, if lower. The rental obligation, net of finance charges, is
included in debt. Assets acquired under finance leases are depreciated in accordance with the Group’s above
policy on property, plant and equipment. The interest element of the lease payment is charged against income
over the lease term based on the effective interest rate method.
Leases where substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are not transferred to the Group are classified
as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases are charged against income on a straight-line basis
over the period of the lease.
Business combinations and goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. The cost of acquisition is the
cash paid plus the fair value at the date of exchange of any other purchase consideration given in exchange for
control over the net assets of the acquired company. The cost of acquisition also includes directly attributable
incidental costs. The acquired identifiable assets and liabilities are initially recognised at fair value. Where the
Group does not acquire 100% ownership of the acquired company, assets and liabilities are recognised at fair
value to the extent of the Group’s interest and the minority interest is recorded as the minority’s proportion of the
pre-acquisition carrying amounts of the acquired assets and liabilities. Goodwill is recorded as the surplus of the
cost of acquisition over the Group’s interest in fair value of identifiable net assets acquired. Any goodwill and fair
value adjustments are recorded as assets and liabilities of the acquired company and are recorded in the local
currency of that company. Goodwill is amortised over its useful life on a straight-line basis. Estimated useful life
of goodwill is between 5–20 years. Goodwill may also arise upon investments in associated companies, being the
surplus of the cost of investment over the Group’s share of the fair value of the net identifiable assets. Such
goodwill is recorded within investments in associated companies, and the amortisation is included within the
income from associated companies.
Intangible assets
Patents, licences, trademarks and other intangible assets are initially recorded at cost. Where these assets have
been acquired through a business combination, this will be the fair value allocated in the acquisition accounting.
Where these have been acquired other than through a business combination, the initial fair value will be cost.
Intangible assets are amortised over their useful lives on a straight-line basis. Estimated useful life is the lower of
legal duration and economic useful life, which does not exceed 20 years. The estimated useful life of the assets
is regularly reviewed and, if necessary, the future amortisation charge is accelerated.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
When there is evidence that an asset may be impaired, the recoverable amount of the asset is calculated and an
impairment assessment is carried out. When the recoverable amount of an asset, being the higher of its net selling
price and its value in use, is less than its carrying amount, then the carrying amount is reduced to its recoverable
84 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
value. This reduction is reported in the income statement as an impairment loss. Value in use is calculated using
estimated cash flows, generally over a five-year period, with extrapolating projections for subsequent years. These
are discounted using an appropriate long-term pre-tax interest rate. When an impairment loss arises the useful
life of the asset in question is reviewed and, if necessary, the future depreciation/amortisation charge is
accelerated. The impairment of financial assets is discussed below in the ‘financial assets’ policy.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value. The cost of finished goods and work in process
comprises raw materials, direct labour and other directly attributable costs and overheads based upon normal
capacity of production facilities. Borrowing costs are not included. Cost is determined using the weighted average
method. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less cost to completion and selling expenses.
Accounts receivable
Accounts receivable are carried at the original invoice amount less allowances made for doubtful accounts. An
allowance is recorded for the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount where there
is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and time, call and current balances with banks and similar
institutions, which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of
changes in value and have a maturity of three months or less from the date of acquisition. This definition is also
used for the cash flow statement.
Own equity instruments
The Group’s holdings in its own equity instruments are recorded as a deduction from equity. The original cost of
acquisition, consideration received for subsequent resale of these equity instruments and other movements are
reported as changes in equity. These instruments have been acquired primarily to meet the obligations that may
arise in respect of certain of the Group’s debt instruments.
Debt instruments
Debt instruments are initially reported at cost, which is the proceeds received, net of transaction costs.
Subsequently they are reported at amortised cost using the effective interest method. To the extent that debt
instruments are hedged under qualifying fair value hedges, the carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted for
the fair value movement attributable to the risk being hedged. Any discount between the net proceeds received
and the principal value due on redemption is amortised over the duration of the debt instrument and is recognised
as part of interest expense in the income statement.
On issue of convertible debt instruments, the cost of the liability portion is initially calculated using the market
interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible instrument. The remainder of the net proceeds is allocated to the
equity conversion option, which is reported in equity, and to deferred income tax liabilities. Where the equity
conversion option is on shares of a consolidated subsidiary, the portion of net proceeds attributable to that option
is recorded within minority interest. The liability element is subsequently reported at amortised cost. Amortisation
of the debt discount and release of the deferred tax liabilities are recognised in the income statement over the
duration of the debt instrument. The value of the equity conversion option recorded in equity is not changed in
future periods.
The limited conversion preferred stock is in substance a financial liability rather than an equity instrument, and
therefore it is classified as long-term debt in the balance sheet and the related dividend payments are treated as
interest expense.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised where a legal or constructive obligation has been incurred which will probably lead to
an outflow of resources that can be reasonably estimated. In particular, restructuring provisions are recognised
when the Group has a detailed formal plan that has either commenced implementation or been announced.
Provisions are recorded for the estimated ultimate liability that is expected to arise, taking into account foreign
Annual Report 2004 85Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
currency effects arising from their translation from measurement currency into Swiss francs and the time value
of money, where material. A contingent liability is disclosed where the existence of the obligation will only be
confirmed by future events, or where the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with reasonable reliability.
Contingent assets are not recognised, but are disclosed where an inflow of economic benefits is probable.
Fair values
Fair value is the amount for which a financial asset, liability or instrument could be exchanged between
knowledgeable and willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. It is determined by reference to quoted market
prices or by the use of established estimation techniques such as option pricing models and estimated
discounted values of cash flows. The fair values at the balance sheet date are approximately in line with their
reported carrying values unless specifically mentioned in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Financial assets
Financial assets, principally investments, including marketable securities, are classified as either ‘Held-for-
trading’, ‘Available-for-sale’, ‘Held-to-maturity’ or ‘Originated by the Group’. Held-for-trading financial assets are
acquired principally to generate profit from short-term fluctuations in price. Held-to-maturity financial assets are
securities with a fixed maturity that the Group has the intent and ability to hold until maturity. Financial assets
originated by the Group are loans and other long-term financial assets created by the Group or acquired from the
issuer in a primary market. All other financial assets are considered as available-for-sale.
All financial assets are initially recorded at cost, including transaction costs. All purchases and sales are
recognised on the settlement date. Held-for-trading financial assets are subsequently carried at fair value, with
all changes in fair value recorded as financial income in the period in which they arise. Held-to-maturity financial
assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Available-for-sale
financial assets are subsequently carried at fair value, with all unrealised changes in fair value recorded in equity.
When the available-for-sale financial assets are sold, impaired or otherwise disposed of, the cumulative gains and
losses previously recognised in equity are included in financial income for the current period. Financial assets
originated by the Group are subsequently carried at amortised cost.
Financial assets are assessed for possible impairment at each balance sheet date. An impairment charge is
recorded where there is objective evidence of impairment, such as where the issuer is in bankruptcy, default or
other significant financial difficulty. Any available-for-sale financial assets that have a market value of more than
25% below their original cost, net of any previous impairment, for a sustained six-month period will be considered
as impaired. Any decreases in the market price of less than 25% of original cost, net of any previous impairment,
or for less than a sustained six-month period are not by themselves considered as objective evidence of
impairment, and such movements in fair value are recorded in equity until there is objective evidence of
impairment or until the asset is sold or otherwise disposed of. For financial assets carried at amortised cost, any
impairment charge is the difference between the carrying value and the recoverable amount, being calculated
using estimated future cash flows discounted using the original effective interest rate. For available-for-sale
financial assets, any impairment charge is the amount currently carried in equity for the difference between the
original cost, net of any previous impairment, and the fair value.
Derivatives
All derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at cost, including transaction costs. Derivatives are
subsequently carried at fair value. Apart from those derivatives designated as qualifying cash flow hedging
instruments (see below), all changes in fair value are recorded as financial income in the period in which they
arise. Embedded derivatives are recognised separately if not closely related to the host contract.
Hedging
For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedging relationships may be of three types. Fair value hedges are hedges
of particular risks that may change the fair value of a recognised asset or liability. Cash flow hedges are hedges
of particular risks that may change the amount or timing of future cash flows. Hedges of net investment in a
foreign entity are hedges of particular risks that may change the carrying value of the net assets of a foreign entity.
86 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
To qualify for hedge accounting the hedging relationship must meet several strict conditions on documentation,
probability of occurrence, hedge effectiveness and reliability of measurement. If these conditions are not met,
then the relationship does not qualify for hedge accounting. In this case the hedging instrument and the hedged
item are reported independently as if there were no hedging relationship. In particular any derivatives are
reported at fair value, with changes in fair value included in financial income.
For qualifying fair value hedges, the hedging instrument is recorded at fair value and the hedged item is recorded
at its previous carrying value, adjusted for any changes in fair value that are attributable to the hedged risk. Any
changes in the fair values are reported in financial income.
For qualifying cash flow hedges, the hedging instrument is recorded at fair value. The portion of any change in
fair value that is an effective hedge is included in equity, and any remaining ineffective portion is reported in
financial income. If the hedging relationship is the hedge of a firm commitment or highly probable forecasted
transaction, the cumulative changes of fair value of the hedging instrument that have been recorded in equity are
included in the initial carrying value of the asset or liability at the time it is recognised. For all other qualifying cash
flow hedges, the cumulative changes of fair value of the hedging instrument that have been recorded in equity
are included in financial income at the time when the forecasted transaction affects net income.
For qualifying hedges of net investment in a foreign entity, the hedging instrument is recorded at fair value. The
portion of any change in fair value that is an effective hedge is included in equity. Any remaining ineffective
portion is recorded in financial income where the hedging instrument is a derivative and in equity in other cases.
If the entity is disposed of, then the cumulative changes of fair value of the hedging instrument that have been
recorded in equity are included in financial income at the time of the disposal.
Changes in accounting policy
There were no significant changes in accounting policy in the periods presented.
International Financial Reporting Standards
There were no revised or new standards or interpretations that became effective from 1 January 2004 that had
asignificant effect on the Group’s financial statements.
In late 2003 the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) published a revised version of IAS 32 ‘Financial
Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation’, a revised version of IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement’ and ‘Improvements to International Accounting Standards’, which makes changes to 14 existing
standards. In the first quarter of 2004 the IASB published IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’, IFRS 3 ‘Business
Combinations’, IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’, IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued
Operations’, revised versions of IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’ and IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ and further
amendments to IAS 39. The Group will adopt these effective 1 January 2005. The Group estimates that the most
significant effects on the Group’s results will come from the implementation of IFRS 2 and IFRS 3.
IFRS 2: ‘Share-based payment’. Amongst other matters, the new standard requires that the fair value of all
equity compensation plans awarded to employees be estimated at grant date and recorded as an expense over
the vesting period. Currently those plans that are equity-settled are recorded to equity or, in the case of
Genentech and Chugai plans, to balance sheet minority interests. The standard also requires retrospective
application, within certain transitional restrictions. Based on the initial work carried out and applying the
transitional restrictions, the Group estimates that the pre-tax expense for 2004 would be approximately
143 million Swiss francs. Of this 131 million Swiss francs relate to Genentech’s equity compensation plans
(seeNote 5) and 12 million Swiss francs relate to the Roche Option Plan (see Note 12). Due to the impact of the
transitional arrangements this amount is not indicative of the future expenses for such plans. Further information
on the Group’s equity compensation plans is given in Notes 5, 6 and 12.
The new standard will also affect the Group’s effective tax rate, as deferred tax will be recorded based on the
expected tax benefits arising from vested awards using the current equity price as an input to the calculation.
Therefore the deferred tax benefit recorded in a particular period is sensitive to the current equity price, whereas
the pre-tax expense is fixed with reference to the equity price at grant date and is not sensitive to the current
Annual Report 2004 87Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
equity price. The impact in the income statement of any deferred tax benefit is capped with reference to the
IFRS2pre-tax expense, with any excess recognised directly to equity. Based on the initial work carried out and
applying the transitional restrictions, the Group estimates that the tax benefit for 2004 would be approximately
54 million Swiss francs. Of the after-tax additional expense of 89 million Swiss francs, 34 million Swiss francs
would be attributable to minorities, leaving an estimated impact on net income of 55 million Swiss francs.
IFRS 3: ‘Business combinations’. Amongst other matters, the new standard requires that amortisation of
goodwill cease from the date of implementation. Goodwill will continue to be tested for impairment. The standard
requires prospective application. Had this standard been applied in 2004, then goodwill amortisation expenses of
579 million Swiss francs would not have been recorded. No additional impairment would have been necessary.
Inaddition, together with IAS 38 (revised) ‘Intangible assets’, this standard will typically result in more intangible
assets being recognised from acquisitions than previously and consequently less goodwill will arise.
The new standard will also affect the Group’s effective tax rate, as currently no tax benefit is recorded in respect
of goodwill amortisation. Based on the Group’s 2004 results, the Group’s effective tax rate is expected to reduce
by between two and three percentage points.
IAS 38 (revised): ‘Intangible assets’.Amongst other matters, the revised standard will typically result in more
intangible assets being recognised from in-licensing arrangements and similar research and development
alliances. Previously such expenditure would be recorded as research and development expenses. The revised
standard requires prospective application.
IAS 1 (revised): ‘Presentation of financial statements’. Amongst other matters, the revised standard will
require that minority interests are included as part of the Group’s equity and not as a separate category on the
balance sheet. This will increase the Group’s equity by 5,070 million Swiss francs, effective 1 January 2005.
The Group does not expect that the other new and revised standards will have a significant effect on the Group’s
results and financial position. The Group draws attention to the fact that it already fully applies the existing
IAS39on ‘Financial Instruments’ and has done so since 2001.
2. Financial risk management
The Group is exposed to various financial risks arising from the Group's underlying operations and corporate
finance activities. The financial risks the Group is exposed to are predominantly related to changes in foreign
exchange rates, interest rates, equity prices as well as the creditworthiness and the solvency of the Group's
counter-parties.
The Group’s subsidiaries Genentech and Chugai have their own treasury operations. These have operational
independence, whilst working within a financial risk management framework that is consistent with the rest of
the Group. More information on their financial risks is available in the annual reports of Chugai and Genentech.
Financial risk management within the Group is governed by policies and guidelines approved by senior
management. These policies and guidelines cover foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, market risk, credit risk
and liquidity risk. Group policies and guidelines also cover areas such as cash management, investment of excess
funds and the raising of short- and long-term debt. The compliance with the policies and guidelines is overseen
by segregated functions within the Group.
The objective of financial risk management is to contain, where deemed appropriate, exposures in the various
types of financial risks mentioned above in order to limit negative impact on the Group’s financial income and
balance sheet.
The Group actively measures, monitors and manages its financial risk exposures by various functions pursuant to
segregation of duties principles.
88 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
In accordance with the financial risk policies the Group manages its market risk exposures, when deemed
appropriate, through the use of financial instruments such as derivatives. It is the Group’s policy and practice not
to enter into derivatives transactions for trading or speculative purposes nor purposes unrelated to the underlying
business.
Foreign exchange risk
The Group operates across the world and is exposed to movements in foreign currencies affecting its net income
and financial position, as expressed in Swiss francs. The Group actively monitors its currency exposures, and when
appropriate, enters into transactions with the aim of preserving the value of assets, commitments and anticipated
transactions. The Group uses forward contracts, foreign exchange options and cross-currency swaps to hedge
certain committed and anticipated foreign exchange flows, financing transactions as well as net investments.
Transaction exposure arises because the amount of local currency paid or received for transactions
denominated in foreign currencies may vary due to changes in exchange rates. For many Group companies
income will be primarily in the local currency. A significant amount of expenditure, especially for purchase of
goods for resale and interest on and repayment of loans will be in foreign currencies. Similarly, transaction
exposure arises on net balances of monetary assets held in foreign currencies. At local level, the Group
companies manage this exposure, if necessary by means of financial instruments such as options and forward
contracts. In addition, Group Treasury monitors total worldwide exposure with the help of comprehensive data
received on a monthly basis.
Translation exposurearises from the consolidation of the foreign currency denominated financial statements of
the Group’s foreign subsidiaries. The effect on the Group’s consolidated equity is shown as a currency translation
movement. The Group partially hedges net investments in foreign currencies by taking foreign currency loans or
issuing foreign currency denominated debt instruments. Major translation exposures are monitored on a regular
basis.
A significant part of the Group’s cash outflows for research, development, production and administration is
denominated in Swiss francs, while a much smaller proportion of the Group’s cash inflows are Swiss franc
denominated. As a result, an increase in the value of the Swiss franc relative to other currencies has an adverse
impact on consolidated net income. Similarly, a relative fall in the value of the Swiss franc has a favourable effect
on results published in Swiss francs.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk arises from movements in interest rates which could have effects on the Group’s net income or
financial position. Changes in interest rates cause variations in interest income and expenses and in interest-
bearing assets and liabilities. In addition, they can affect the market value of certain financial assets, liabilities
and instruments as described in the following section on market risk. The interest rates on the Group’s major debt
instruments are fixed, as described in Note 32. The Group uses interest rate derivatives to manage its interest
raterisk.
Market risk of financial assets
Changes in the market value of certain financial assets and derivative instruments can affect the net income
or financial position of the Group. Financial long-term assets are held for strategic purposes and marketable
securities are held for fund management purposes. The risk of loss in value is managed by reviews prior to
investing and continuous monitoring of the performance of investments and changes in their risk profile.
Investments in equities, bonds, debentures and other fixed income instruments are entered into on the basis of
guidelines with regard to liquidity and credit rating.
Annual Report 2004 89Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Credit risk
Credit risk arises from the possibility that the counter-party to a transaction may be unable or unwilling to meet
their obligations causing a financial loss to the Group. Trade receivables are subject to a policy of active risk
management focussing on the assessment of country risk, credit availability, ongoing credit evaluation and
account monitoring procedures. There are no significant concentrations within trade receivables of counter-party
credit risk, due to the Group’s large number of customers and their wide geographical spread. For some credit
exposures in critical countries, the Group has entered into respective credit insurance. Country risk limits and
exposures are continuously monitored. The exposure of other financial assets to credit risk is controlled by setting
a policy for limiting credit exposure to high-quality counter-parties, regular reviews of credit ratings, and setting
defined limits for each individual counter-party. Where appropriate to reduce exposure, netting agreements under
an ISDA (International Swaps and Derivatives Association) master agreement are signed with the respective
counter-parties. The maximum exposure to credit risk resulting from financial activities, without considering
netting agreements, is equal to the carrying amount of financial assets. The credit exposure is diversified amongst
different counter-parties.
Liquidity risk
Group companies need to have sufficient availability of cash to meet their obligations. Individual companies are
responsible for their own cash management, including the short-term investment of cash surpluses and the
raising of loans to cover cash deficits, subject to guidance by the Group and, in certain cases, to approval at Group
level. The Group maintains sufficient reserves of cash and readily realisable marketable securities to meet its
liquidity requirements at all times. In addition, the strong international creditworthiness of the Group allows it
tomake efficient use of international capital markets for financing purposes.
3. Changes in Group organisation
A listing of the major Group subsidiaries and associated companies is included in Note 41.
Gains (losses) from changes in Group organisationin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Consumer Health (OTC) business7
– gain (loss) on disposal of the Consumer Health (OTC) business 2,503 –
– gain (loss) on disposal attributable to Roche prescription business (199) –
Vitamins and Fine Chemicals business8
– impairment of net assets – (375)
– gain (loss) on disposal – (20)
Total 2,304 (395)
The disposal of the Consumer Health (OTC) business is discussed in Note 7 and the disposal of the Vitamins and
Fine Chemicals business is discussed in Note 8.
Igen
On 13 February 2004 the Group acquired a 100% controlling interest in Igen International Inc. (Igen), a public
company headquartered in Gaithersburg, Maryland, USA. The acquisition gives the Group broad access to the
human in-vitro diagnostics immunochemistry sector through the use of electrochemiluminiscence (ECL) technology
in further development of the Elecsys product line. The acquisition was approved by an extraordinary general
meeting of Igen’s shareholders on 13 February 2004 and has been cleared by the relevant antitrust authorities.
Thetotal cash consideration paid was 1,776 million Swiss francs and incidental costs were 4 million Swiss francs.
In addition the accumulated losses of 43 million Swiss francs that were recorded in equity from the hedging of
thistransaction were removed from equity and included as part of the acquisition cost. The allocation of the total
purchase consideration of 1,823 million Swiss francs is as follows:
90 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Igen acquisition: net assets acquiredin millions of CHF
Goodwill 1,315
Intangible assets 740
Deferred income taxes (166)
Cash 8
Other net assets (liabilities) (74)
Total 1,823
Goodwill and acquired intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over 12.5 years, beginning
1March2004.
Igen acquisition: impact on operating profitin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Royalty expenses (pre-acquisition) (9) (48)
Amortisation of intangible assets (50) –
Effect on operating profit before exceptional items (59) (48)
Goodwill amortisation (88) –
Effect on operating profit (147) (48)
Disetronic
Effective 2 May 2003 the Group acquired a controlling interest in Disetronic, a public company headquartered in
Burgdorf, Switzerland. Disetronic is a world leader in the research, development and commercialisation of insulin
pumps and injection systems for the treatment of diabetes. Disetronic’s Infusion Systems division has become
part of Roche Diagnostics’ Diabetes Care business area. As part of the acquisition process Disetronic’s Injection
Systems was simultaneously resold to Disetronic’s founder and chairman and continues to operate as an
independent company. The Group has a 100% interest in Disetronic.
The acquisition was approved by an extraordinary general meeting of Disetronic’s shareholders on 23 April 2003
and was subsequently cleared by the relevant antitrust authorities. The Group paid the shareholders of Disetronic
670 Swiss francs in cash and two Roche non-voting equity securities for each Disetronic share. The net
consideration paid was 1,132 million Swiss francs, of which 892 million Swiss francs was in cash and 240 million
Swiss francs was in the form of 2,744,893 Roche non-voting equity securities. In addition incidental costs were
4million Swiss francs.
Cash flows from changes in Group organisationin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Acquisitions
– Igen (1,815) –
– Disetronic – (884)
– other acquisitions (7) (13)
Total cash flows from acquisitions of subsidiaries and associated companies (1,822) (897)
Divestments
– Consumer Health (OTC) business 696 –
– Vitamins and Fine Chemicals business – 2,113
– other divestments – –
Total cash flows from divestments of subsidiaries and associated companies 696 2,113
These amounts are net of any cash balances in the acquired/divested company/business and include cash
outflows for incidental transaction costs.
Annual Report 2004 91Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
4. Segment information
Information by business segment in millions of CHF
Roche Genentech Chugai Total
prescription prescription prescription Pharmaceuticals
2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003
Segment revenues
Segment revenue/
divisional sales 14,511 13,924 4,669 3,527 3,203 3,156 22,383 20,607
Less inter-divisional sales (541) (681) (147) (145) – – (688) (826)
Divisional sales to third parties 13,970 13,243 4,522 3,382 3,203 3,156 21,695 19,781
Operating profit before
exceptional items 3,642 3,354 1,444 882 487 462 5,573 4,698
Amortisation of goodwill 42 42 (265) (287) (10) (10) (233) (255)
Major legal cases – – – 225 – – – 225
Changes in Group organisation (199) – – – – – (199) –
Segment results/
operating profit 3,485 3,396 1,179 820 477 452 5,141 4,668
Segment assets
and liabilities
Divisional assets 11,797 12,790 6,195 6,184 3,580 3,894 21,572 22,868
Other segment assets 1,342 1,382 – – 19 – 1,361 1,382
Segment assets 13,139 14,172 6,195 6,184 3,599 3,894 22,933 24,250
Non-segment assets
Total assets
Divisional liabilities (372) (366) (103) (59) (69) (89) (544) (514)
Other segment liabilities (1,587) (1,593) (709) (734) (144) (339) (2,440) (2,666)
Segment liabilities (1,959) (1,959) (812) (793) (213) (428) (2,984) (3,180)
Non-segment liabilities
Total liabilities
Other segment information
Capital expenditure 754 787 762 523 113 222 1,629 1,532
Depreciation 501 533 211 210 68 64 780 807
Amortisation of intangible assets 406 415 208 235 78 78 692 728
Impairment of long-term assets 188 1 29 – – – 217 1
Restructuring expenses 5 8 – – 64 30 69 38
Research and development costs 2,709 2,408 1,130 923 516 568 4,355 3,899
Income from
associated companies (41) (35) – – – – (41) (35)
Investments in
associated companies 8 64 – – – – 8 64
Number of employees 32,380 32,871 7,646 6,226 5,082 5,438 45,108 44,535
Chugai prescription: The 2003 results include 49 million Swiss francs for the write-off of the fair value adjustment
to inventories arising from the acquisition accounting for Chugai (see Note 6). These fair value adjustments were
written off in line with the inventory turnover and were fully written off by the end of the first quarter of 2003.
Consumer Health (OTC): This is shown as a discontinuing business (see Note 7). The segment results exclude a
total of 44 million Swiss francs (2003: 44 million Swiss francs) of administration and other costs that were previously
allocated to the Consumer Health (OTC) business in the Group’s published segment results. These items are not
transferred with the sale of the business and therefore they have been reclassified to the business segment ‘Others’
within the Group’s continuing business results.
92 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Continuing Consumer Health Vitamins and
Diagnostics Others businesses (OTC) Fine Chemicals Group
2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003
7,832 7,423 – – 30,215 28,030 1,754 1,772 – 2,332 31,969 32,134
(5) (14) – – (693) (840) (3) (2) – (72) (696) (914)
7,827 7,409 – – 29,522 27,190 1,751 1,770 – 2,260 31,273 31,220
1,675 1,405 (298) (310) 6,950 5,793 304 311 – 164 7,254 6,268
(339) (234) – – (572) (489) (7) (8) – – (579) (497)
– (9) – – – 216 – – – – – 216
– – – – (199) – 2,503 – – (395) 2,304 (395)
1,336 1,162 (298) (310) 6,179 5,520 2,800 303 – (231) 8,979 5,592
14,004 12,588 126 142 35,702 35,598 54 1,008 – – 35,756 36,606
144 157 56 – 1,561 1,539 16 10 – – 1,577 1,549
14,148 12,745 182 142 37,263 37,137 70 1,018 – – 37,333 38,155
20,743 21,331
58,076 59,486
(360) (243) (2) (5) (906) (762) (19) (97) – – (925) (859)
(1,717) (1,687) (115) (191) (4,272) (4,544) (30) (15) (208) (203) (4,510) (4,762)
(2,077) (1,930) (117) (196) (5,178) (5,306) (49) (112) (208) (203) (5,435) (5,621)
(19,348) (24,701)
(24,783) (30,322)
3,064 2,038 1 1 4,694 3,571 6 15 – 172 4,700 3,758
456 430 6 3 1,242 1,240 5 8 – 55 1,247 1,303
308 258 – – 1,000 986 26 27 – – 1,026 1,013
5 18 – – 222 19 – 6 – 375 222 400
(5) 42 – – 64 80 17 2 – 3 81 85
698 724 – 1 5,053 4,624 40 47 – 95 5,093 4,766
– – (2) (9) (43) (44) – – – – (43) (44)
7 – 40 46 55 110 – – – – 55 110
19,109 18,302 377 430 64,594 63,267 109 2,090 – – 64,703 65,357
Vitamins and Fine Chemicals: This is shown as a discontinuing business (see Note 8). The business was sold
effective 30 September 2003. The 2003 results include an impairment charge of 375 million Swiss francs on the
net assets of the Vitamins and Fine Chemicals business.
Others: This includes the costs of Corporate Headquarters, as well as the non-allocated administration and other
costs referred to above. The Group will be reassessing the latter during 2005 with a view to reducing them through
restructuring.
Annual Report 2004 93Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Information by geographical segmentin millions of CHF
Sales to third parties
2004 (by destination) Segment assets Capital expenditure
Switzerland 442 6,138 299
European Union 10,563 11,298 899
Rest of Europe 993 295 17
Europe 11,998 17,731 1,215
North America 11,025 14,373 3,215
Latin America 1,825 1,106 74
Japan 3,875 3,531 128
Rest of Asia 1,553 377 46
Asia 5,428 3,908 174
Africa, Australia and Oceania 997 215 22
Segment total 31,273 37,333 4,700
Non-segment assets – 20,743 –
Consolidated total 31,273 58,076 4,700
2003
Switzerland 529 6,386 1,602
European Union 9,681 11,543 764
Rest of Europe 1,520 554 55
Europe 11,730 18,483 2,421
North America 10,789 13,802 941
Latin America 2,076 1,237 69
Japan 3,948 3,951 249
Rest of Asia 1,697 406 50
Asia 5,645 4,357 299
Africa, Australia and Oceania 980 276 28
Segment total 31,220 38,155 3,758
Non-segment assets – 21,331 –
Consolidated total 31,220 59,486 3,758
5. Genentech
Effective 7 September 1990 the Group acquired a majority interest of approximately 60% of Genentech, Inc.,
a biotechnology company in the United States. On 13 June 1999 the Group exercised its option to acquire the
remaining shares of Genentech on 30 June 1999, at which point Genentech became a 100% owned subsidiary of
the Group. On 23 July 1999, 26 October 1999 and 29 March 2000 the Group completed public offerings of
Genentech’s Common Stock, as a result of which the Group’s majority interest was 60%. Genentech issues
additional shares of common stock in connection with its equity compensation plans and also may issue
additional shares for other purposes. The affiliation agreement between the Group and Genentech provides,
amongst other things, that Genentech establish a stock repurchase programme to maintain the Group’s
percentage ownership interest in Genentech.
94 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
During 2004 the Group’s ownership of Genentech decreased by 2.45% due to the conversion and redemption of
‘LYONs IV’ US dollar exchangeable notes, as described in Note 32. Changes in the Group’s ownership also arose
from the stock repurchases by Genentech and the exercise of stock options by Genentech employees. Effective
28 April 2004 Genentech implemented a two-for-one share split of Genentech’s common stock in the form of a
stock dividend, which had no impact on either the Group’s percentage ownership of Genentech or the Group’s
consolidated results. At 31 December 2004 the Group’s interest in Genentech was 56.1% (2003: 58.4%).
‘Genentech prescription’ is shown as a separate business segment in the segment information.
The common stock of Genentech is publicly traded and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, under the
symbol DNA. Genentech prepares financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States (US GAAP). These are filed on a quarterly basis with the US Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC).
Differences between IFRS and US GAAP
Due to certain consolidation entries and differences in the requirements of International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) and US GAAP, there are differences between Genentech’s stand-alone results on a US GAAP
basis and the results of Genentech as consolidated by the Roche Group in accordance with IFRS.
Reconciliation of Genentech results
2004 2003
USD CHF USD CHF
millions millions millions millions
Operating margin (US GAAP basis) 1,137 805
– redemption costs 145 154
– special litigation items 37 (113)
Operating margin (non-US GAAP basis) 1,319 846
Add (deduct) differences and consolidation entries
– add back redemption costs (145) (154)
– other differences and consolidation entries (12) (38)
Operating profit before exceptional items (IFRS basis) 1,162 1,444 654 882
Add (deduct) exceptional items
– amortisation of goodwill (265) (287)
– major legal cases – 225
Segment result/operating profit (IFRS basis) 1,179 820
Add (deduct) non-operating items (IFRS basis)
– financial income 7 51
– income taxes (515) (367)
Net income (IFRS basis) 671 504
Minority interest percentage (average during year) 43.7% 40.7%
Income applicable to minority interest (IFRS basis) (293) (205)
Translated at 1 USD = 1.24 CHF (2003: 1 USD = 1.35 CHF).
Annual Report 2004 95Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Following the acquisition by the Group of 100% interest in Genentech on 30 June 1999, the analysis carried out
for the acquisition accounting identified amounts attributable to in-process research and development (IPR&D).
In Genentech’s US GAAP financial statements these items have been recorded in 1999 as either an adjustment
to equity or as a one-time expense. Under IFRS these items cannot be classified as separate assets at the date of
acquisition and therefore form part of goodwill. Therefore in the years subsequent to 1999 there is a goodwill
amortisation expense in respect of this IPR&D in the Group’s results under IFRS. Genentech adopted US
accounting standards FAS 141 and FAS 142 effective 1 January 2002, under which goodwill is no longer
amortised, but is subject to an impairment test at least annually. Under IFRS goodwill continues to be amortised,
while also being subject to testing for impairment. Effective 1 January 2005 the Group will implement IFRS 3
‘Business Combinations’ and from this date goodwill will no longer be amortised. There are other differences
between IFRS and US GAAP, but these have a relatively minor impact.
Genentech stock repurchases and stock options
In September 2004 Genentech’s Board of Directors authorised an extension of the current stock repurchase
programme to repurchase up to a further 1,000 million US dollars of Genentech’s common stock through
31 December 2005. Previously on 5 December 2003 Genentech’s Board of Directors had authorised a stock
repurchase programme to repurchase up to 1,000 million US dollars of Genentech’s common stock. In 2004
Genentech had repurchased common stock worth 1,352 million US dollars or 1,680 million Swiss francs (2003:
201 million US dollars or 271 million Swiss francs).
Genentech has an employee stock purchase programme that allows employees to purchase Genentech’s
common stock at 85% of the lower of market value at the grant date or purchase date. 1,717 thousand shares of
Genentech common stock were purchased in 2004 resulting in a cash inflow of 73 million Swiss francs.
Genentech also has a stock option plan adopted in 1999 and amended in 2000. In April 2004 Genentech’s
shareholders approved an equity incentive plan. The plans allow for the granting of various stock options,
incentive stock options and stock purchase rights shares to employees, directors and consultants of Genentech.
No incentive stock options and stock purchase rights have been granted under this plan to date. Details of stock
options are shown in the table below, which has been restated for the effects of the 2004 two-for-one share split.
Genentech stock options
Number of options (thousands) 2004 2003
Outstanding at 1 January 96,126 110,838
Granted 20,967 21,780
Exercised (21,484) (32,078)
Cancellations (1,843) (4,414)
Outstanding at end of year 93,766 96,126
– of which exercisable 46,339 47,607
Terms of options outstanding as at 31 December 2004
Options outstanding Options exercisable
Weighted Weighted
Number Weighted average average Number average
outstanding years remaining exercise exercisable exercise
Range of exercise prices (USD) (thousands) contractual life price (USD) (thousands) price (USD)
6.27–8.89 1,068 5.70 7.49 1,068 7.49
10.00–14.35 24,640 6.75 13.61 15,356 13.21
15.04–22.39 17,089 6.34 20.81 13,313 20.96
22.88–33.00 993 6.15 28.31 781 28.92
35.63–49.98 30,328 7.79 41.38 15,738 40.55
50.96–59.61 19,648 9.71 53.36 83 54.34
Total 93,766 46,339
96 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
During 2004 Genentech granted 20,967 thousand options with an average exercise price of USD 53.04. The
options vest over a four-year period and expire in 2014. The fair value of the options granted, estimated using
a binomial model, was 413 million Swiss francs. Options exercised during 2004 had an average exercise price
ofUSD 20.81 and the cash inflow was equivalent to 555 million Swiss francs.
The net accounting effect of Genentech stock repurchases and stock options is recorded to minority interests
(seeNote 37).
Effective 1 January 2005 the Group will implement IFRS 2: ‘Share-based payment’. Amongst other matters, the
new standard requires that the value of equity-settled plans, such as the Genentech stock option plans and
employee stock purchase programme, be estimated at grant date and recorded as an employee remuneration
expense over the vesting period. For example the fair value of 413 million Swiss francs for the options granted in
2004 would be recorded as an expense over the subsequent four-year vesting period. Based on the initial work
carried out and applying the transitional restrictions, the Group estimates that the pre-tax expense for 2004 for
Genentech’s equity compensation plans would be approximately 131 million Swiss francs. Due to the impact of the
transitional arrangements this amount is not indicative of the future expenses for these plans. See also Note 1.
Other matters
As discussed in Note 9, in 2003 the Group has recorded income of 225 million Swiss francs in respect of certain
litigation matters at Genentech.
6. Chugai
Effective 1 October 2002 the Roche Group and Chugai completed an alliance to create a leading research-driven
Japanese pharmaceutical company, which was formed by the merger of Chugai and Roche’s Japanese
pharmaceuticals subsidiary, Nippon Roche. The merged company, known as Chugai, is a fully consolidated
subsidiary of the Group. At 31 December 2004 the Group’s interest in Chugai was 50.6% (2003: 50.5%). ‘Chugai
prescription’ is shown as a separate business segment in the segment information. The results of Chugai’s OTC
business are included in the ‘Consumer Health (OTC)’ business segment. Segment information is given in Note 4.
The common stock of Chugai is publicly traded and is listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Chugai prepares
financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan (JGAAP). These are
filed on a quarterly basis with the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
Differences between IFRS and JGAAP
Due to certain consolidation entries and differences in the requirements of International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) and JGAAP, there are differences between Chugai’s stand-alone results on a JGAAP basis and
the results of Chugai as consolidated by the Roche Group in accordance with IFRS.
The acquiring by Roche of a 50.1% in Chugai is treated as an acquisition for IFRS. For JGAAP the alliance is
treated as a merger between Chugai and Nippon Roche. Therefore the JGAAP results of Chugai do not include
the goodwill and fair value adjustments that are recorded in Roche’s results, and which are quantified in the table
below. Moreover the acquisition accounting only includes Roche’s 50.1% of these fair value adjustments and
therefore the impact of these on net income needs to be added back in the minority interest calculations in
Roche’s IFRS results.
In Roche’s IFRS results, depreciation on property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line
method. In Chugai’s JGAAP results the reducing balance method is used. Additionally certain income and
expenses, notably some restructuring costs, are required by JGAAP to be reported as extraordinary items. In
Chugai’s JGAAP results extraordinary items are reported below the operating profit line. In Roche’s IFRS results
such items are normally included as part of operating profit and are not treated as extraordinary or exceptional
items. Restructuring costs were 64 million Swiss francs (2003: 30 million Swiss francs). There are other differences
between IFRS and JGAAP, but these have a relatively minor impact.
Annual Report 2004 97Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Reconciliation of Chugai prescription resultsin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Chugai prescription operating profit before exceptional items and before
acquisition accounting impacts (IFRS basis) 565 590
– write-off of fair value adjustments to inventories – (49)
– depreciation of property, plant and equipment (9) (9)
– amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets (69) (70)
Chugai prescription operating profit before exceptional items (IFRS basis) 487 462
Add (deduct) exceptional items
– amortisation of goodwill (10) (10)
Chugai prescription segment result/operating profit (IFRS basis) 477 452
Add (deduct) Chugai OTCand non-operating items (IFRS basis)
– financial income and Chugai OTC 101 (24)
– income taxes (238) (188)
Net income (IFRS basis) 340 240
Minority interest calculation
Add back acquisition accounting impact on net income 57 86
Net income excluding acquisition accounting 397 326
Minority interest percentage (average during year) 49.5% 49.7%
Income applicable to minority interest (IFRS basis) 197 163
Translated at 100 JPY = 1.15 CHF (2003: 100 JPY = 1.16 CHF).
Dividends
The dividends distributed to third-parties holding Chugai shares during 2004 totalled 5,952 million Japanese yen
or 68 million Swiss francs (2003: 2,198 million Japanese yen or 26 million Swiss francs) and has been recorded
against minority interests (see Note 37). Dividends paid by Chugai to Roche are eliminated on consolidation as
inter-company items.
Chugai OTC
On 30 July 2004 Chugai announced the sale of its OTC business to Lion Corporation. The sale was completed
effective 29 December 2004 and a pre-tax gain on disposal of 103 million Swiss francs was recorded.
Early retirement programme
On 18 May 2004 Chugai announced an early retirement programme with a retirement date of 30 September 2004.
At the end of the application period on 6 August 2004 a total of 216 employees had applied for the programme.
Restructuring costs of 4.2 billion Japanese yen (48 million Swiss francs) were recorded for this programme.
Share repurchase
During 2004 Chugai repurchased 1,000,000 of its common shares for a total consideration of 1.6 billion Japanese
yen (19 million Swiss francs). As a result the Group’s ownership in Chugai increased to 50.6%. The net accounting
effect of Chugai share repurchases is recorded to minority interests (see Note 37).
98 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Chugai convertible bonds
Details of the ‘Series 6 Chugai Pharmaceutical Unsecured Convertible Bonds’, including conversions during the
year, are given in Note 32.
Stock acquisition rights
During 2003 Chugai adopted a Stock Acquisition Rights programme. The programme allows for the granting of
rights to employees and directors of Chugai. Each right entitles the holder to purchase 100 Chugai shares at
aspecified exercise price.
Chugai stock acquisition rights
Number of rights 2004 2003
Outstanding at 1 January 2,310 –
Granted 2,320 2,310
Exercised – –
Cancellations – –
Outstanding at end of year 4,630 2,310
– of which exercisable 4,630 2,310
Terms of rights outstanding as at 31 December 2004
Rights outstanding Rights exercisable
Number Remaining Exercise Number Exercise
Year of grant outstanding contractual life price (JPY) exercisable price (JPY)
2003 2,310 8.5 years 145,400 2,310 145,400
2004 2,320 9.2 years 167,500 2,320 167,500
During 2004 Chugai granted 2,320 rights with an exercise price of JPY 167,500. The rights vested immediately and
expire in 2014. The fair value of the rights granted, estimated using a binomial model, was 2 million Swiss francs.
Effective 1 January 2005 the Group will implement IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payment’. Amongst other matters, the new
standard requires that the value of equity-settled plans, such as the Chugai stock acquisition rights, be estimated
at grant date and recorded as an expense over the vesting period. See also Note 1.
7. Consumer Health (OTC) business
On 19 July 2004 the Group announced the sale of Roche Consumer Health, its global OTC (over-the-counter
medicines) business, to the Bayer Group. The sale also included five production facilities belonging to the Roche
prescription business. Under the agreement with Bayer the majority of local businesses were transferred to Bayer
at the end of 2004. In a few smaller markets where the transaction has yet to be closed, completion is expected
within the first half of 2005. By 31 December 2004, 98% of the divestment to Bayer was completed, measured in
terms of Roche Consumer Health sales to third parties.
On 30 July 2004 Chugai announced the sale of its OTC business to Lion Corporation. This sale was completed
effective 29 December 2004.
Annual Report 2004 99Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Gain on disposal of Consumer Health (OTC) business and five Roche prescription production
facilities as at 31 December 2004 in millions of CHF
Consideration 3,835
– less net debt adjustments (98)
– less other purchase price adjustment mechanisms (36)
Net proceeds 3,701
Of which
– cash 815
– receivable from Bayer collected on 1 January 2005 2,886
3,701
Incidental transaction costs (87)
Net assets of the Consumer Health (OTC) business and five production facilities
– property, plant and equipment17 240
– goodwill18 78
– intangible assets19 240
– inventories23 192
– accounts receivable 264
– cash 38
– provisions30 (2)
– accounts payable (61)
– other net assets and liabilities (131)
– accumulated currency translation adjustments36 44
(902)
Impairment and restructuring charges and accruals for residual obligations
retained by the Roche Group (408)
Gain on disposal 2,304
Of which
– Discontinuing businesses: Consumer Health (OTC) business segment 2,503
– Continuing businesses: Roche prescription business segment (199)
2,304
The above table includes preliminary assessments of the net debt adjustments and other purchase price
mechanisms as well as initial calculations of the impairment and restructuring charges and accruals for residual
obligations retained by the Roche Group. The final assessments and calculations will be made in 2005.
The preliminary assessment of the disposal results in a tax expense currently estimated at 368 million Swiss
francs. Of the after-tax gain of 1,936 million Swiss francs, 30 million Swiss francs are attributable to minority
interests, giving a net income of 1,906 million Swiss francs from the disposal.
The cash inflow from the disposal in 2004, net of cash balances of 38 million Swiss francs held by companies
within the Consumer Health (OTC) business and cash payments for transaction costs of 81 million Swiss francs,
was 696 million Swiss francs. Under the terms of the agreement the majority of cash proceeds, totalling
2,886million Swiss francs, were transferred to the Group on 1 January 2005. This amount is shown as a receivable
in the 31 December 2004 balance sheet.
Discontinuing businesses: Consumer Health (OTC) business segment
The Consumer Health (OTC) business is shown as a discontinuing operation in the consolidated results as it
represents a separate major line of business that can be distinguished operationally and for financial reporting
purposes. The results of the Consumer Health (OTC) business segment are shown in Note 4.
100 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Consumer Health (OTC) business: amounts included in the income statementin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Sales to third parties 1,751 1,770
Expenses (1,447) (1,459)
Operating profit before exceptional items 304 311
Amortisation of goodwill (7) (8)
Major legal cases – –
Changes in Group organisation 2,503 –
Operating profit 2,800 303
Result of associated companies – –
Financial income (4) –
Profit before taxes 2,796 303
Income taxes (447) (83)
Profit after taxes 2,349 220
Minority interests (35) (2)
Net income 2,314 218
The above figures exclude a total of 44 million Swiss francs (2003: 44 million Swiss francs) of administration and
other overheads that were previously allocated to the Consumer Health (OTC) business in the Group’s published
segment results. These items are not transferred with the sale of the business and therefore they have been
reclassified to the business segment ‘Others’ within the Group’s continuing business results. The Group will be
reassessing these during 2005 with a view to reducing them through restructuring.
Consumer Health (OTC) business: amounts included in the balance sheetin millions of CHF
31 December 31 December
2004 2003
Property, plant and equipment 1 45
Other long-term assets 16 380
Current assets 53 593
Total assets 70 1,018
Long-term debt – –
Provisions (30) (15)
Current liabilities (19) (97)
Total liabilities (49) (112)
Net assets 21 906
The significant operating cash flows from the Consumer Health (OTC) business of 335 million Swiss francs (2003:
352 million Swiss francs) arise from the operating profit before exceptional items and before depreciation,
amortisation and impairment. There were no significant investing and financing cash flows from the Consumer
Health (OTC) business.
Continuing businesses: Roche prescription business segment
The five production facilities included in the sale to Bayer are shown as part of the Roche prescription results until
the date of disposal. All five production facilities were transferred to Bayer at the end of 2004 and therefore are
not included in the 31 December 2004 balance sheet.
In connection with the divestment of Roche Consumer Health, the Roche prescription business reassessed the
utilisation of its manufacturing facilities, infrastructure and service capacities. In addition, under the terms of the
agreement with Bayer, the Roche prescription business has agreed certain interim manufacturing and service
obligations with Bayer. As a result of this, the Roche prescription business recorded an impairment charge based
on the estimated net selling price as shown in the table below.
Annual Report 2004 101Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Bayer transaction: impact on Roche prescription business segment in millions of CHF
Net proceeds 317
Incidental transaction costs (3)
Net assets of the five production facilities (237)
Impairment charges (183)
Restructuring charges and accruals for residual obligations retained
by the Roche prescription business (93)
Gain (loss) on disposal: Roche prescription business segment (199)
On 19 July 2004, in a separate transaction, the Roche prescription business announced that it has granted
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare an exclusive license for the US non-prescription rights to the anti-obesity
drug orlistat, marketed by Roche as a prescription medicine under the brand name Xenical. The agreement
provides for an up-front payment in 2004 of 100 million US dollars (124 million Swiss francs) and additional
payments on the achievement of agreed milestones and royalties. The up-front payment received in 2004 was
initially reported as deferred income and is being recognised in income as earned over the period of the
development collaboration. The Group retains all rights to market Xenical as a prescription drug in the US and all
rights (prescription and non-prescription) outside the US.
8. Vitamins and Fine Chemicals business
Effective 30 September 2003, after receiving the final regulatory approvals, the Group completed the sale of its
global Vitamins and Fine Chemicals business (‘the VFC business’) to the Dutch company DSM.
An impairment charge of 375 million Swiss francs was recorded at 30 June 2003. This was based on assessments
at the respective dates of the difference between the expected net proceeds from disposal and the net assets of
the VFC business, taking into account the residual obligations that will be retained by the Roche Group. The
preliminary assessment made in 2003 showed that an additional loss on disposal of 20 million Swiss francs arose
on the disposal of the VFC business. The final assessment is expected to be finalised in 2005, following review
and approval by the Group and by DSM of the implementation of the purchase price adjustment mechanisms.
Based on the current status of the review and approval process, no adjustments to the preliminary estimate of the
loss on disposal have been made.
Gain (loss) on disposal of Vitamins and Fine Chemicals businessin millions of CHF
Consideration 2,681
– less net debt adjustment (252)
– less other purchase price adjustment mechanisms (62)
Net proceeds from DSM received in 2003 2,367
Of which
– cash 2,226
– DSM shares 141
2,367
Incidental transaction costs (42)
Net assets of the VFC business, net of impairment charges and accruals
for residual obligations retained by the Roche Group (2,345)
Gain (loss) on disposal (20)
The preliminary assessment of the disposal in 2003 resulted in a tax benefit of 41 million Swiss francs. The cash inflow
from the disposal in 2003, net of cash balances of 113 million Swiss francs held by companies within the VFC
business, was 2,113 million Swiss francs.
Following the sale of the VFC business, certain assets and liabilities of the Vitamins and Fine Chemicals Division,
mainly associated with the vitamin case, remain with the Group. These are described below in the section on the
vitamin case. In addition the Group has given DSM certain indemnities in respect of any remedial actions at the
102 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
sites of the VFC business that may be required by environmental laws. Further arrangements were put in place
regarding utilisation of certain assets and certain purchasing contracts as well as adopting DSM as a preferred
supplier for pharmaceutical ingredients. Under one of these arrangements, the Group has guaranteed to
purchase for a period of four years beginning 1 January 2004 products with a sales value totalling 100 million
euros. The Group will reimburse DSM for 75% of any unutilised amounts. The other arrangements consist of
certain residual obligations, which are fully accrued for.
The Vitamins and Fine Chemicals Division is shown as a discontinuing operation in the consolidated results. The 2003
results of the VFC business that was sold to DSM are included in the consolidated results of the Group up until the
sale on 30 September 2003. The results of the Vitamins and Fine Chemicals business segment are shown in Note 4.
VFC business: amounts included in the income statementin millions of CHF
Vitamin case and Vitamins and Fine
VFC business other residual Chemicals
sold to DSM amounts business
2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003
Sales to third parties – 2,260 – – – 2,260
Expenses – (2,083) – (13) – (2,096)
Operating profit before exceptional items – 177 – (13) – 164
Amortisation of goodwill – – – – – –
Major legal cases – – – – – –
Changes in Group organisation – (395) – – – (395)
Operating profit – (218) – (13) – (231)
Result of associated companies – – – – – –
Financial income – (37) (16) – (16) (37)
Profit before taxes – (255) (16) (13) (16) (268)
Income taxes – 40 4 4 4 44
Profit after taxes – (215) (12) (9) (12) (224)
Minority interests – 1 – – – 1
Net income – (214) (12) (9) (12) (223)
The remaining segment liabilities of the VFC business are shown in Note 4. These consist primarily of provisions
related to the vitamin case and other matters that have not been transferred to DSM.
In 2003, in addition to the vitamin case payments, the cash flows from the VFC business for the nine months prior
to the sale to DSM consisted of operating cash flow of 165 million Swiss francs, financing cash outflows of
36million Swiss francs and investing cash outflows of 163 million Swiss francs.
Vitamin case
Following the settlement agreement with the US Department of Justice on 20 May 1999 regarding pricing
practices in the vitamin market and the overall settlement agreement to a class action suit brought by the US
buyers of bulk vitamins, the Group recorded provisions in respect of the vitamin case in 1999. These provisions
were the Group’s best estimate at that time of the total liability that may arise, taking into account currency
movements and the time value of money. Provisions for legal fees were recorded separately. At 31 December 2001
and 31 December 2002, based on the development of the litigation and recent settlement negotiations, the Group
recorded additional provisions of 760 and 1,770 million Swiss francs, respectively.
On 17 January 2003 the District of Columbia Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that non-US plaintiffs may bring claims
in US courts under US anti-trust laws for alleged damages suffered from transactions outside the United States
in connection with the vitamin case. On 14 June 2004 the Supreme Court of the United States nullified the
decision of the District of Columbia Circuit Court of Appeals in a class action litigation brought on behalf of
non-US purchasers of bulk vitamins from Roche and other manufacturers. In addition to the nullification of
Annual Report 2004 103Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
the decision of the lower court, the Supreme Court remanded the case to the lower court to review alternative
arguments which might permit such claims to proceed in the US. The District of Columbia Circuit Court of Appeals
has asked the parties to submit written briefs and an oral hearing is scheduled for April 2005. No provisions have
been recorded in respect of this litigation as the eventual outcome is uncertain at this stage.
Total payments during the year were 66 million Swiss francs (2003: 638 million Swiss francs), which were charged
against the provisions previously recorded. Payments made in 2003 include 403 million US dollars (545 million
Swiss francs) to direct customers in the United States.
The Group is seeking to resolve the remaining outstanding issues; however the timing and the final amounts
involved are uncertain. The remaining provisions recorded total 128 million Swiss francs and are based on current
litigation and recent settlement agreements. These provisions are all considered as short-term as cash outflows
are expected to arise during 2005 and are not discounted as the time value of money is not considered material
in this case. As the litigation and negotiations progress it is possible that the ultimate liability may be different
from the amount of provisions currently recorded.
As part of the disposal process, the liabilities in respect of the vitamin case, which are discussed above, remain
with the Roche Group. Roche and DSM have signed an Indemnity and Co-operation Agreement under which
Roche may provide DSM with certain indemnities and guarantees in connection with the vitamin case.
9. Major legal cases
Income (expenses) from major legal casesin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Igen litigation
– write-off of intangible assets19 – (117)
– release of provisions30 – 108
Genentech legal cases
– receipts (payments) from settlements – 225
Total income (expense) – 216
Igen litigation
On 15 February 2002 the United States District Court of Maryland entered judgement in the civil litigation between
Roche Diagnostics GmbH, Germany (RDG) and Igen International, Inc. (Igen) over claims related to the licensing
of Igen’s electrochemiluminescence (ECL) technology to RDG. The court concluded that several breaches of the
licence agreement were material so that Igen has the right to terminate the licence agreement, and awarded Igen
105.4 million US dollars in compensatory damages and 400 million US dollars in punitive damages. On 9 July 2003
the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit reversed the substantial damages awarded against RDG.
The court reversed the finding that RDG had engaged in unfair competition through the continuation of a patent
lawsuit against Igen by one of RDG’s affiliated companies. In setting aside that claim, the Court eliminated the only
basis for the award of 400 million US dollars in punitive damages against RDG. The court also held that RDG did not
violate an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing under the License Agreement, thereby also setting aside
the award of 82 million US dollars in compensatory damages on that claim. In total the Court eliminated 486 million
US dollars of the 505 million US dollars judgement entered against RDG. The Court left intact the jury’s award of
the remaining damages and the finding that Igen may terminate the License Agreement with RDG. Igen notified
RDG that Igen will terminate the License Agreement. On 24 July 2003 the Group and Igen announced plans under
which the Group will acquire Igen. This acquisition was completed effective 13 February 2004 (see Note 3).
As the previous license agreement was terminated, the Group wrote off the intangible assets for this technology
that were recorded at the time of the acquisition of the Corange Group by the Roche Group in 1997. The net book
value of these was 117 million Swiss francs. At the same time the Group released to income 108 million Swiss
francs of litigation provisions, being the balance in the provision less the remaining outstanding compensatory
damages awards. The net of these two amounts, an expense totalling 9 million Swiss francs, has been recorded
as an expense from major legal cases in the 2003 results.
104 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
In March 2002 RDG paid 606 million US dollars into a collateral deposit account in relation to the Igen litigation.
Following entry of the final judgement RDG paid the remaining 18.6 million US dollars (25 million Swiss francs)
in respect of the remaining compensatory damages to Igen. The amount in the collateral deposit account was
repaid to the Group in 2003. The net cash inflow of these two transactions was 808 million Swiss francs.
Genentech legal cases
In 2003 the Group has recorded income of 225 million Swiss francs in respect of certain litigation settlements,
including litigation involving Amgen.
On 10 June 2002 Genentech announced that a Los Angeles County Superior Court jury voted to award City of
Hope Medical Center approximately 300 million US dollars in compensatory damages based on a finding of a
breach of a 1976 agreement between Genentech and the City of Hope. On 24 June 2002 the jury voted to award
City of Hope 200 million US dollars in punitive damages in the same case. On 13 September 2002 Genentech filed
a notice of appeal of the jury verdict and damages awards with the California Court of Appeal. On 21 October 2004
the Court of Appeal affirmed the verdict and damages awards in all respects. Also, on 21 October 2004 Genentech
announced that it will seek review by the California Supreme Court, which has discretion over which cases it will
review. On 24 November 2004 Genentech filed its petition for review by the California Supreme Court. City of Hope
filed its answer on 14 December 2004, and Genentech filed its reply on 27 December 2004. The California
Supreme Court has not yet ruled on this petition. A full provision, which is now classified as short-term, has been
recorded for the damages awards. During the appeals process interest accrues on the total amount of the
damages at a simple annual rate of 10%. Following the judgement interest of 61 million Swiss francs (2003:
69million Swiss francs) was recorded as the time cost of provisions, within interest expenses (see Note 15). On
3 October 2002 Genentech entered into an arrangement with third party insurance companies to post a surety
bond of 600 million US dollars in connection with this judgement. As part of this arrangement Genentech pledged
630 million US dollars in cash and investments to secure this bond. This was increased in 2004 by 52 million US
dollars to 682 million US dollars (772 million Swiss francs). This amount is reported as restricted cash within other
current assets (see Note 25).
In addition, Genentech is party to a patent infringement suit filed by Chiron Corporation on 7 June 2000 in the US
District Court in the Eastern District of California (Sacramento) in respect of Herceptin. On 25 June 2002 the court
issued several decisions regarding summary judgement motions that had been filed. The jury trial of this suit
began on 6 August 2002. Following the first phase of the trial, based on the findings by the jury, the court entered
judgement in favour of Genentech. On 20 November 2002 Chiron filed notice of appeal with the US Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit. On 4 December 2002 Genentech filed notice of cross-appeal with the same court.
On 6 April 2004 Genentech announced that the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit unanimously affirmed
the 2002 judgement of the US District Court in the Eastern District of California (Sacramento) that found in favour
of Genentech. Chiron filed a petition for rehearing with the Court of Appeals and that motion was subsequently
denied. On 4 October 2004 Chiron filed a petition with the United States Supreme Court seeking review of the
judgment in favour of Genentech. On 10 January 2005, the Supreme Court announced that it had denied review
of the judgment.
On 12 August 2002 the United States Patent and Trademark Office declared an interference between the Chiron
patent involved in this lawsuit and a patent application exclusively licensed to Genentech from the University of
Pennsylvania relating to anti-HER2 antibodies. In declaring the interference, the Patent Office has determined
that there is substantial question as to whether the inventors of the Chiron patent were the first to invent the
technology involved and are entitled to the patent. Subsequently the Patent Office redeclared the interference to
include, in addition to the above-referenced Chiron patent and university patent application, a number of patents
and patent applications owned by either Chiron or Genentech, including a Chiron patent that is also at issue in a
second patent infringement lawsuit filed on 13 March 2001 against Genentech by Chiron. On 30 November 2004
the Patent Office issued rulings on several preliminary motions. These rulings terminated both interferences
involving the patent application referenced above that Genentech licensed from a university, redeclared
interferences between the Genentech and Chiron patents and patent applications, and made several
determinations which could affect the validity of the Genentech and Chiron patents and patent applications
involved in the remaining interferences. The interference proceedings are ongoing, including the possibility that
the rulings on the preliminary motions will be challenged or appealed, and therefore the outcome of this matter
Annual Report 2004 105Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
cannot be determined at this time. In connection with the second patent infringement lawsuit filed on 13 March
2001 against Genentech by Chiron, discovery in that case is currently stayed.
On 13 January 2003 arbitration proceedings began between Genentech and Tanox Biosystems, Inc. (‘Tanox’)
regarding a July 1996 Settlement and Cross-Licensing Agreement relating to the development and manufacture
of certain antibody products directed towards immunoglobin E, including Xolair and Hu-901. Tanox claimed
breaches of the agreement and Genentech made counterclaims. On 26 February 2004 Genentech announced that
an agreement had been reached between Tanox, Genentech and Novartis, which settled all litigation between the
parties and finalised the detailed terms of the three-party collaboration. As part of the settlement Genentech and
Novartis each reimbursed Tanox 3.3 million US dollars for a portion of its development costs.
On 27 August 2003 Genentech and Amgen, Inc. announced a settlement of their patent litigation in the US District
Court for the Northern District of California. Under the settlement agreement, both parties agreed to dismiss their
claims and counterclaims against each other. As part of the settlement Amgen made a one-time payment to
Genentech. In November 2003 Genentech and Bayer settled a breach-of-contract action that Genentech brought
against Bayer relating to Bayer’s manufacture and sale of Factor VIII under a license agreement between Bayer
and Genentech. As part of the settlement, Bayer made a one-time payment to Genentech. Income from major legal
cases of 225 million Swiss francs has been recorded in the 2003 results in respect of these settlements.
On 4 October 2004 Genentech received a subpoena from the United States Department of Justice, requesting
documents related to the promotion of Rituxan, a prescription product approved for the treatment of relapsed or
refractory, low-grade or follicular, CD20 positive, B-cell non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. Genentech is co-operating
with the associated investigation, which, as Genentech has been advised, is both civil and criminal in nature. The
potential outcome of this matter cannot be determined at this time.
Genentech’s annual report and quarterly SEC filings contain the detailed disclosures on litigation matters that is
required by US GAAP. These include further details on the above matters as well as including information on other
litigation that is not currently as significant as the matters referred to above.
10. Employee benefits
Employee remunerationin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Wages and salaries 6,290 6,494
Social security costs 769 777
Post-employment benefits: defined benefit plans 532 469
Post-employment benefits: defined contribution plans 146 117
Other employee benefits 362 397
Total employees’ remuneration 8,099 8,254
The charges for employee benefits are included in the relevant expenditure line by function. The number of
employees at the year-end was 64,703 (2003: 65,357). Other employee benefits consist mainly of life insurance
schemes and certain other insurance schemes providing medical cover as well as long and short-term disability
benefits.
11. Pensions and other post-employment benefits
Most employees are covered by retirement benefit plans sponsored by Group companies. The nature of such
plans varies according to legal regulations, fiscal requirements and economic conditions of the countries in which
the employees are employed. The major plans are defined benefit plans, the largest of which are located in
Switzerland, the United States, Germany, the United Kingdom and Japan. Other post-employment benefits consist
mostly of post-retirement healthcare and life insurance schemes, principally in the United States. Plans are
usually funded by payments from the Group and by employees to trusts independent of the Group’s finances.
Where a plan is unfunded, notably for the major defined benefit plans in Germany, a liability for the obligation is
recorded in the Group’s balance sheet.
106 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Defined benefit plans: expenses recognisedin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Current service cost 331 351
Interest cost 598 584
Expected return on plan assets (599) (602)
Net actuarial (gains) losses recognised 175 109
Past service cost 32 4
(Gains) losses on curtailment (5) 23
Total included in employees’ remuneration 532 469
The actual return on plan assets was 848 million Swiss francs (2003: 815 million Swiss francs).
In December 2004 the Group paid an additional contribution of 150 million Swiss francs into one of its Swiss post-
employment defined benefit plans. This payment is included in ‘contributions paid’ in the table below and is accounted
for as part of the recognised surplus on funded pension plans in the Group’s consolidated financial statements in 2004.
Thereafter it will be included in the actuarial calculation of the Group’s pension expenses and balances.
Defined benefit plans: movements in recognised net asset (liability)in millions of CHF
2004 2003
At beginning of year (1,206) (1,165)
Disetronic3 – (7)
Consumer Health (OTC) business7 20 –
Vitamins and Fine Chemicals business8 – 242
Total expenses included in employees’ remuneration (as above) (532) (469)
Contributions paid 571 340
Benefits paid (unfunded plans) 91 94
Currency translation effects and other (111) (241)
At end of year (as below) (1,167) (1,206)
Defined benefit plans: amounts recognised in balance sheetin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Funded plans
Actuarial present value of funded obligations
due to past and present employees (10,233) (9,785)
Plan assets held in trusts at fair value 9,922 9,490
Plan assets in excess (deficit) of actuarial present value of funded obligations (311) (295)
Unrecognised actuarial (gains) losses 1,752 1,459
Unrecognised past service costs (57) 27
Net recognised asset (liability) for funded obligations
due to past and present employees 1,384 1,191
Unfunded plans
Actuarial present value of funded obligations
due to past and present employees (2,731) (2,626)
Unrecognised actuarial (gains) losses 169 233
Unrecognised past service costs 11 (4)
Recognised (liability) for actuarial present value
of unfunded obligations due to past and present employees (2,551) (2,397)
Total recognised asset (liability) for funded and unfunded obligations
due to past and present employees (1,167) (1,206)
Reported as
– surplus recognised as long-term asset 1,577 1,549
– deficit recognised as non-current liability (2,744) (2,755)
Total net asset (liability) recognised (1,167) (1,206)
Annual Report 2004 107Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
The above amounts include non-pension post-employment benefit schemes, principally medical plans as shown
below.
Other post-employment benefit plansin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Actuarial present value of obligations due to past and present employees (784) (886)
Plan assets held in trusts at fair value 342 369
Plan assets in excess (deficit) of actuarial present value of funded obligations (442) (517)
– less unrecognised actuarial (gains) losses 299 395
Net recognised asset (liability) (143) (122)
Amounts recognised in the balance sheet for post-employment defined benefit plans are predominantly non-
current and are reported as long-term assets and non-current liabilities.
Plan assets of the funded plans do not include any of the Group’s own equity instruments.
The Group operates defined benefit schemes in many countries and the actuarial assumptions vary based upon
local economic and social conditions. The range of assumptions used in the actuarial valuations of the most
significant defined benefit plans, which are in countries with stable currencies and interest rates, are shown
below.
Defined benefit plans: actuarial assumptions
2004 2003
Weighted Weighted
average Range average Range
Discount rates 4.30% 2%–7% 4.90% 3%–7%
Projected rates of remuneration growth 2.93% 2%–9% 3.37% 1%–9%
Expected rates of return on plan assets 6.52% 2%–9% 6.41% 2%–9%
Healthcare cost trend rate 7.91% 4%–13% 8.30% 4%–12%
12. Employee stock options and other equity compensation benefits
Roche Option Plan
The Group offers non-voting equity security options to certain directors and management. The exercise price is
at or above the market price of the non-voting equity securities at the date of issue. The options, which are non-
tradable, have a seven-year duration and vest on a phased basis over three years. The Group covers such
obligations by purchasing non-voting equity securities, or derivatives thereon (see Note 34). The cost of these
instruments is reported in own equity instruments, within equity on the balance sheet. When the options are
exercised the cash received is credited to own equity instruments. There are no impacts on the income statement,
other than employer social insurance costs and the administrative costs of the plan. The previous option
compensation plan, whereby the Group purchased options directly from third-party financial institutions and
granted them to certain employees, is closed and no further such options are being granted. Details of the Roche
Option Plan are shown in the table below.
Roche Option Plan
Number of options 2004 2003
Outstanding at 1 January 1,876,419 584,694
Granted 829,965 1,342,116
Exercised (219,530) (2,131)
Cancellations (30,127) (48,260)
Outstanding at end of year 2,456,727 1,876,419
– of which exercisable 703,369 197,428
108 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Terms of options outstanding as at 31 December 2004
Options outstanding Options exercisable
Weighted Weighted
Weighted average average average
Number years remaining exercise Number exercise
Year of grant outstanding contractual life price (CHF) exercisable price (CHF)
2002 466,489 4.19 115.11 296,724 115.19
2003 1,170,533 5.16 78.36 358,443 78.15
2004 819,705 6.09 129.50 48,202 129.50
Total 2,456,727 5.28 102.81 703,369 97.30
During 2004 the Group granted 829,965 options with an average exercise price of CHF 129.50. The options vest
over a three-year period and expire in 2011. The fair value of the options granted, estimated using a binomial
model, was 17 million Swiss francs. Options exercised during 2004 had an average exercise price of CHF 93.47
and the cash inflow was equivalent to 21 million Swiss francs.
Effective 1 January 2005 the Group will implement IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payment’. Amongst other matters, the new
standard requires that the value of equity-settled plans, such as the Roche Option Plan, be estimated at grant
date and recorded as an expense over the vesting period. See also Note 1.
Roche Performance Share Plan
The Group offered future non-voting equity security awards (or at the Board’s discretion, their cash equivalent)
to certain directors and key senior managers. The programme was established at the beginning of 2002 and was
in effect for three years. The amount of non-voting equity securities granted depended upon the individual’s
salary level, the achievement of performance targets linked to the Group’s total shareholders’ return (shares and
non-voting equity securities combined) relative to the Group’s peers during the three-year period from the date
of the grant and the discretion of the Board of Directors. The plan concluded at the end of 2004 and 377,626 non-
voting equity securities were vested. These have a fair value of 49 million Swiss francs and will be allocated to the
recipients after a blackout period had ended. The cost of the plan was accrued over the vesting period of the
grant, based on the final fair value award estimated at each balance sheet date. During the year the cost of the
plan was 19 million Swiss francs (2003: 18 million Swiss francs), which was reported within the relevant operating
expense categories. During 2004 the Board approved a new three-year cycle of the Roche Performance Share
Plan, to operate during 2005–2007.
Roche Connect
This programme enables all employees worldwide, except for those in the United States and certain other
countries, to make regular deductions from their salaries to purchase non-voting equity securities. It is
administered by independent third parties. The Group makes a contribution to the programme, which allows the
employees to purchase non-voting equity securities at a discount (usually 20%). The administrator purchases the
necessary non-voting equity securities directly from the market. 511,574 non-voting equity securities were held
at 31 December 2004 (2003: 279,143). The programme has been operational since 1 October 2002. During the year
the cost of the plan was 7 million Swiss francs (2003: 6 million Swiss francs), which was reported within the
relevant operating expense categories.
Stock Appreciation Rights
Some employees of certain North American subsidiaries of the Group receive Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs)
as part of their compensation. The SARs may be exercised after a vesting period of between one and three years
for a cash payment, based upon the amount that the market price of the Group’s American Depositary Receipts
(ADRs) at the point of exercise exceeds the strike price (grant price at issuance).
Annual Report 2004 109Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Stock Appreciation Rights
Number of rights 2004 2003
Outstanding at 1 January 5,317,155 4,869,400
Granted 1,806,372 1,834,330
Exercised (2,153,297) (456,325)
Cancellations (686,271) (930,250)
Outstanding at end of year 4,283,959 5,317,155
– of which exercisable 1,346,717 1,671,425
Amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements
Expense in millions of CHF 117 154
Accrual in millions of CHF 151 129
Terms of rights outstanding as at 31 December 2004
Rights outstanding Rights exercisable
Weighted Weighted
average average
Number exercise Number exercise
Year of grant outstanding Expiry price (USD) exercisable price (USD)
2001 award 353,791 2007 72.60 353,791 72.60
2002 award 846,009 2008 69.35 846,009 69.35
2003 award 1,313,875 2010 57.65 146,917 57.65
2004 award 1,770,284 2011 104.15 – 104.15
Total 4,283,959 1,346,717
During 2004 the Group granted 1,806,372 rights with an average exercise price of USD 104.15. The rights vest
over a three-year period and expire in 2011. The fair value of the rights granted, estimated using a binomial model,
was 42 million Swiss francs. Rights exercised during 2004 had an average exercise price of USD 67.37 and the
cash outflow was equivalent to 75 million Swiss francs. Following the approval of the Roche global long-term
incentive programme (see below), the Group does not in the future plan to award any further cash-settled SARs
based on the market price of ADRs.
Roche global long-term incentive programme
During 2004 the Board approved a new global long-term incentive programme for 2005 onwards which will be
available to certain directors, management and employees selected at the discretion of the Group. The
programme will consist of stock-settled stock appreciation rights (S-SARs) with the Group having the alternative
of granting awards under the existing Roche Option Plan. The S-SARs will give employees the right to receive
non-voting equity securities reflecting the value of any appreciation in the market price of the non-voting equity
securities between the grant date and the exercise date. The Group would cover such obligations by purchasing
non-voting equity securities or derivatives thereon.
Genentech and Chugai plans
The Genentech Stock Option Plan is discussed in Note 5 and the Chugai Stock Acquisition Rights programme is
discussed in Note 6.
110 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
13. Other operating income
Other operating incomein millions of CHF
2004 2003
Royalty income 879 739
Gains on disposal of products 431 134
Other 427 462
Total other operating income 1,737 1,335
As part of the continuous realignment of its product portfolio, the Group periodically disposes of product lines
that are no longer considered as core products or priorities within the product development portfolio. The
proceeds are reinvested in the Group’s in-licensing arrangements and other research and development alliances
and collaborations.
On 9 February 2004 the Group announced the sale of the exclusive US rights to Soriatane to Connetics
Corporation. The cash received was 155 million Swiss francs. On 1 August 2004 the Group agreed to license and
sell certain patent rights from our patent portfolio to a third party. The cash received was 188 million Swiss francs.
On 30 September 2003 the Group announced the sale to Protein Design Labs (PDL) of the business related to the
Zenapax product worldwide in all disease indications other than organ transplantation. The Group will continue
to market Zenapax in transplantation indications until 2007, at which point PDL have an option to purchase. The
cash received was 106 million Swiss francs. During 2004 the Group and PDL signed a separate agreement to co-
develop and commercialise Zenapax for asthma and related respiratory diseases. For all of these disposals the
products concerned had no book value and so the gain on disposal was the same as the cash proceeds. All of
these disposals are reported within the operating profit of the ‘Roche prescription’ segment.
14. Other operating expenses
Other operating expensesin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Royalty expenses (1,375) (1,153)
Restructuring expenses (81) (85)
Impairment of property, plant and equipment17 (8) (4)
Impairment of intangible assets19 (31) (21)
Stock Appreciation Rights12 (117) (154)
Other (435) (479)
Total other operating expenses (2,047) (1,896)
Annual Report 2004 111Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
15. Financial income
Financial incomein millions of CHF
2004 2003
Gains on sale of equity securities 112 274
(Losses) on sale of equity securities (43) (208)
Dividend income 34 61
Gains (losses) on equity derivatives, net (2) 18
Write-downs and impairments of equity securities (63) (313)
Net income from equity securities 38 (168)
Interest income 204 203
Gains on sale of debt securities 103 61
(Losses) on sale of debt securities (108) (49)
Write-downs and impairments of long-term loans – –
Net interest income and income from debt securities 199 215
Interest expense (438) (560)
Amortisation of discount on debt instruments (143) (354)
Gains (losses) on interest rate derivatives, net 13 30
Time cost of provisions30 (77) (96)
Net interest expense (645) (980)
Foreign exchange gains (losses), net (27) 254
Gains (losses) on foreign currency derivatives, net 69 16
Net foreign exchange gains (losses) 42 270
Net other financial income (expense) 7 (4)
Total net financial income (359) (667)
Exceptional income from bond conversion and redemption
During 2004 the Group has converted or redeemed certain of its debt instruments. Debt was reduced by
4,026 million Swiss francs, the total cash outflow was 3,039 million Swiss francs and a net pre-tax gain of
908 million Swiss francs resulted as shown below. This net gain is reported as an exceptional item due to the
materiality of the gain and in order to fairly present the Group’s results. Further details are given in Note 32.
Impact of bond conversion and redemptionin millions of CHF
Exceptional income
from bond conversion Increase
and redemption (reduction)
(pre-tax) in debt Cash outflow
‘LYONs IV’ US dollar exchangeable notes 1,136 (1,220) (5)
‘LYONs III’ US dollar exchangeable notes (60) (2,256) (2,316)
‘Chameleon’ US dollar bonds (74) (641) (715)
‘LYONs V’ US dollar exchangeable notes (94) 94 –
Limited Conversion Preferred Stock – (3) (3)
Total 908 (4,026) (3,039)
112 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
16. Income taxes
Income tax expensesin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Current income taxes 2,167 1,794
Adjustments recognised for current tax of prior periods 25 39
Deferred income taxes 153 (388)
Total charge for income taxes 2,345 1,445
Since the Group operates across the world, it is subject to income taxes in many different tax jurisdictions. The Group
calculates its average expected tax rate as a weighted average of the tax rates in the tax jurisdictions in which the
Group operates. Within the Group’s average expected tax rate, the increasing significance of Genentech and Chugai
causes an increase in the rate which has been offset by ongoing improvement of the Group’s structures.
The Group’s effective tax rate can be reconciled to the Group’s average expected tax rate as follows:
Reconciliation of the Group’s effective tax ratein millions of CHF
2004 2003
Group’s average expected tax rate 24.1% 24.3%
Tax effect of
– Unrecognised tax losses –1.5% –0.1%
– Non-taxable income/non-deductible expenses +0.3% –0.1%
– Impairment of financial assets15 +0.0% +1.2%
– Other differences +2.1% +0.5%
Continuing businesses before exceptional items effective tax rate 25.0% 25.8%
2004 2003
Profit Income Tax Profit Income Tax
before tax taxes rate before tax taxes rate
Continuing businesses before exceptional
items effective tax rate 6,568 (1,645) 25.0% 5,119 (1,319) 25.8%
Amortisation of goodwill18 (572) – (489) –
Major legal cases9 – – 216 (87)
Changes in Group organisation
in continuing businesses3 (199) 33 – –
Exceptional income from bond
conversion and redemption15 908 (290) – –
Continuing businesses effective tax rate 6,705 (1,902) 28.4% 4,846 (1,406) 29.0%
Discontinuing businesses7, 8 277 (75) 430 (80)
Changes in Group organisation
in discontinuing businesses3 2,503 (368) (395) 41
Group’s effective tax rate 9,485 (2,345) 24.7% 4,881 (1,445) 29.6%
Annual Report 2004 113Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Income tax assets (liabilities)in millions of CHF
2004 2003
Current income taxes
Current income tax assets 159 238
Current income tax liabilities (947) (714)
Net current income tax asset (liability) (788) (476)
Deferred income taxes
Deferred income tax assets 1,047 900
Deferred income tax liabilities (3,564) (3,133)
Net deferred income tax asset (liability) (2,517) (2,233)
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry forwards only to the extent that realisation of the
related tax benefit is probable. The Group has unrecognised tax losses, including valuation allowances, of
172million Swiss francs (2003: 594 million Swiss francs), of which 88 million Swiss francs expire within four years
and 40 million Swiss francs expire within six years. The remaining 44 million Swiss francs of losses expire after
fifteen years or more. Deferred income tax liabilities have not been established for the withholding tax and other
taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries, as such amounts are
currently regarded as permanently reinvested. These unremitted earnings totalled 27.6 billion Swiss francs at
31December 2004 (2003: 22.8 billion Swiss francs).
The deferred income tax assets and liabilities and the deferred income tax charges (credits) are attributable to
the following items:
Deferred income taxes: movements in recognised net assets (liabilities)in millions of CHF
Property, plant and Other
equipment, and Restructuring temporary
2004 intangible assets provisions differences Total
Net deferred income tax asset
(liability) at beginning of year (3,597) 125 1,239 (2,233)
(Charged) credited to the income
statement 390 (22) (521) (153)
(Charged) credited to equity36 – – (19) (19)
Acquisition of Igen3 (259) – 93 (166)
Disposal of Consumer Health (OTC)
business7 4 – (2) 2
Currency translation effects
and other 403 (73) (278) 52
Net deferred income tax asset
(liability) at end of year (3,059) 30 512 (2,517)
2003
Net deferred income tax asset
(liability) at beginning of year (3,343) 135 441 (2,767)
(Charged) credited to the income
statement (322) (18) 728 388
(Charged) credited to equity36 – – 1 1
Disetronic3 (80) – (3) (83)
Disposal of Vitamins and
Fine Chemicals business8 223 (3) 109 329
Currency translation effects
and other (75) 11 (37) (101)
Net deferred income tax asset
(liability) at end of year (3,597) 125 1,239 (2,233)
114 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
17. Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment: movements in carrying value of assetsin millions of CHF
Buildings
and land Machinery Construction
improve- and in 2004 2003
Land ments equipment progress Total Total
Net book value
At beginning of year 836 5,085 4,881 1,692 12,494 13,434
Disetronic3 – – – – – 58
Disposal of Consumer Health (OTC)
business7 (5) (153) (247) (18) (423) –
Disposal of Vitamins and
Fine Chemicals business8 – – – – – (1,326)
Additions 182 118 828 1,229 2,357 2,265
Disposals (4) (57) (113) (18) (192) (244)
Transfers 36 584 751 (1,371) – –
Depreciation charge – (222) (1,025) – (1,247) (1,303)
Impairment charge14 – – (8) – (8) (4)
Currency translation effects (53) (232) (210) (78) (573) (386)
At end of year 992 5,123 4,857 1,436 12,408 12,494
At 31 December
Cost 992 7,548 10,943 1,436 20,919 20,654
Accumulated depreciation – (2,425) (6,086) – (8,511) (8,160)
Net book value 992 5,123 4,857 1,436 12,408 12,494
The decrease in property, plant and equipment of 423 million Swiss francs from the disposal of the OTC business
consists of assets transferred with the business of 240 million Swiss francs and an impairment charge of
183million Swiss francs. See Note 7.
Finance leases
As at 31 December 2004 the capitalised cost of property, plant and equipment under finance leases amounts
to867 million Swiss francs (2003: 1,036 million Swiss francs) and the net book value of these assets amounts to
640 million Swiss francs (2003: 846 million Swiss francs).
Finance leases: present value of future minimum lease paymentsin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Within one year 19 32
Between one and five years 510 569
More than five years 172 289
Total present value of minimum lease payments 701 890
Group companies are party to a number of finance leases, the most significant of which are those entered into
by Genentech in respect of its manufacturing facility at Vacaville, California and certain buildings on its South
SanFrancisco site. Upon lease expiry Genentech may either purchase the property at a pre-determined amount,
sell the property to a third party or renew the lease. If the property is sold to a third party at an amount lower than
the amount financed by the lessor, Genentech has agreed a residual value guarantee to pay the lessor up to an
agreed percentage of the amount financed by the lessor. Genentech is also required to maintain financial
covenants in the form of certain pre-defined financial ratios and is limited to the amount of debt it can assume.
The carrying value of these lease obligations is 577 million US dollars (653 million Swiss francs).
Annual Report 2004 115Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Genentech leasesin millions of USD
Approximate Maximum
initial fair value residual
of property Lease expiry value guarantee
Vacaville 425 November 2006 372
South San Francisco 160 June 2007 136
Total 585 508
Operating leases
Total operating lease rental expense was 245 million Swiss francs (2003: 219 million Swiss francs).
Operating leases: future minimum payments under non-cancellable leases in millions of CHF
2004 2003
Within one year 103 114
Between one and five years 163 177
More than five years 63 15
Total minimum payments 329 306
Group companies are party to a number of operating leases, mainly for plant and machinery, including motor
vehicles, and for certain short-term property rentals. The arrangements do not impose any significant restrictions
on the Group.
Capital commitments
The Group has capital commitments for the purchase or construction of property, plant and equipment totalling
1.5 billion Swiss francs (2003: 1.1 billion Swiss francs). In addition to this, on 15 December 2004 Genentech
entered into a Master Lease Agreement for the lease of property in South San Francisco. Genentech’s aggregate
lease payments through 2020 are estimated at approximately 540 million US dollars.
18. Goodwill
Goodwill: movements in carrying value of assetsin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Net book value
At beginning of year 5,206 5,057
Igen acquisition3 1,315 –
Disetronic acquisition3 – 861
Disposal of Consumer Health (OTC) business7 (78) –
Amortisation charge (579) (497)
Impairment charge – –
Currency translation effects (332) (215)
At end of year 5,532 5,206
At 31 December
Cost 14,578 14,682
Accumulated amortisation (9,046) (9,476)
Net book value 5,532 5,206
Of which
– Genentech acquisition 1,557 1,963
– Corange acquisition 1,713 1,902
– Chugai acquisition 122 158
– Disetronic acquisition 765 823
– Igen acquisition 1,090 –
– Others 285 360
Total 5,532 5,206
116 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
The goodwill arising from investments in associated companies is classified as part of the investments in
associated companies (see Note 20).
Effective 1 January 2005 the Group will implement IFRS 3 ‘Business combinations’. Amongst other matters, the
new standard requires that amortisation of goodwill cease from the date of implementation. Goodwill will
continue to be tested for impairment. The standard requires prospective application. Had this standard been
applied in 2004, then goodwill amortisation expenses of 579 million Swiss francs would not have been recorded.
No additional impairment would have been necessary.
19. Intangible assets
Intangible assets: movements in carrying value of assetsin millions of CHF
Patents, licences, trademarks and other intangible assets
Acquisition- 2004 2003
related Other Total Total
Net book value
At beginning of year 5,384 1,561 6,945 7,786
Igen acquisition3 740 – 740 –
Disetronic acquisition3 – – – 320
Disposal of Consumer Health (OTC)
business7 (234) (6) (240) –
Additions 4 284 288 233
Disposals – (12) (12) (2)
Amortisation charge (728) (298) (1,026) (1,013)
Impairment charge14 (2) (29) (31) (21)
Igen litigation9 – – – (117)
Currency translation effects (258) (66) (324) (241)
At end of year 4,906 1,434 6,340 6,945
At 31 December
Cost 11,627 2,685 14,312 14,729
Accumulated amortisation (6,721) (1,251) (7,972) (7,784)
Net book value 4,906 1,434 6,340 6,945
Remaining useful life 2004 2003
Of which
– Genentech acquisition 1–10 years 592 826
– Corange acquisition 3–13 years 2,345 2,705
– Chugai acquisition 8–16 years 680 781
– Disetronic acquisition 9 years 267 300
– Igen acquisition 12 years 634 –
– Kytril 4 years 755 988
– Others Various 1,067 1,345
Total 6,340 6,945
The majority of the Group’s intangible assets result from the acquisitions made by the Group. The patents, licenses,
trademarks and other intangible assets are recorded at fair value in the acquisition accounting and are
subsequently amortised over their useful lives. The Kytril intangible assets arise from the purchase by the Group of
the global rights to Kytril (granisetron) from SmithKline Beecham in December 2000. The Group currently has no
internally generated intangible assets from development as the criteria for the recognition as an asset are not met.
20. Associated companies
The Group’s investments in associated companies have been accounted for using the equity method. The
goodwillarising from investments in associated companies is classified as part of the investments in associated
companies.
Annual Report 2004 117Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Investments in associated companiesin millions of CHF
Share of net income Balance sheet value
2004 2003 2004 2003
Basilea Pharmaceutica (Switzerland) (31) (28) – 31
Other investments in associated companies (12) (16) 55 79
Total investments in associated companies (43) (44) 55 110
Basilea Pharmaceutica: The Group owns a non-controlling interest of 33% (2003: 46%) in Basilea
Pharmaceutica Ltd (‘Basilea’). Basilea is a Swiss biotechnology company in the anti-bacterial, anti-fungal and
dermatology fields.
The Group’s other major investments in associates are Tripath Inc., and Antisoma. Additional information about
these companies is given in Note 41. Transactions between the Group and its associated companies are given in
Note 38. On 20 April 2004 the Group announced that it would no longer continue the joint development of the renal
transplantation drug ISA(TX)247 with Isotechnika. As a result the Group no longer has the potential to exercise
significant influence over Isotechnika and accordingly Isotechnika is no longer reported as an associated company.
An impairment loss of 10 million Swiss francs (2003: none) was recorded on the Group’s investments in associates.
21. Joint ventures
The Group’s interests in joint ventures are reported in the financial statements using the proportionate
consolidation method. The significant joint ventures are detailed below.
Bayer joint venture:As part of the disposal of the Roche Consumer Health business (see also Note 7) the Group
sold to Bayer its 50% stake in Bayer Roche LLC, a joint venture with Bayer in the over-the-counter (OTC) field to
market and distribute the product Aleve and certain other OTC products in the United States.
Joint ventures: recognised income statement and balance sheet amounts in millions of CHF
2004 2003
Income statement
Sales 230 249
Expenses (159) (190)
Net income after taxes 71 59
Balance sheet
Long-term assets – 235
Current assets 14 173
Non-current liabilities – (88)
Current liabilities (3) (187)
Net assets 11 133
22. Financial and other long-term assets
Financial and other long-term assetsin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Available-for-sale investments 980 934
Held-to-maturity investments 77 125
Loans receivable 32 108
Long-term trade receivables 54 77
Restricted cash 84 849
Total financial long-term assets 1,227 2,093
Prepaid employee benefits 174 187
Other 310 336
Total other long-term assets 484 523
118 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Financial long-term assets are held for strategic purposes and therefore are classified as non-current. The
available-for-sale investments are mainly equity investments. The effective interest rate of held-to-maturity
investments is 1.5% (2003: 1.0%). Loans receivable comprise all loans to third parties with a term of over one year.
Restricted cash in 2003 included 630 million US dollars (779 million Swiss francs) of cash and investments
pledged by Genentech in connection with the City of Hope litigation (see Note 9). In 2004 this was included in
current assets (see Note 25).
23. Inventories
Inventories in millions of CHF
2004 2003
Raw materials and supplies 533 606
Work in process 621 590
Finished goods and intermediates 3,565 4,006
Less: provision for slow-moving and obsolete inventory (145) (177)
Total inventories 4,574 5,025
Inventories held at net realisable value have a carrying value of 6 million Swiss francs (2003: 8 million Swiss
francs). As a result of the disposal of the Consumer Health (OTC) business, inventories decreased by 192 million
Swiss francs, effective 31 December 2004 (see Note 7). As a result of the disposal of the Vitamins and Fine
Chemicals business, inventories decreased by 1,014 million Swiss francs, effective 30 September 2003 (see Note 8).
24. Accounts receivable
Accounts receivablein millions of CHF
2004 2003
Trade accounts receivable 7,012 6,863
Notes receivable 143 283
Less: provision for doubtful accounts (374) (372)
Total accounts receivable 6,781 6,774
At 31 December 2004 accounts receivable include amounts denominated in US dollars equivalent to 1.7 billion
Swiss francs (2003: 1.4 billion Swiss francs) and amounts denominated in euros equivalent to 2.6 billion Swiss
francs (2003: 2.8 billion Swiss francs).
Bad debt expense was 17 million Swiss francs (2003: 47 million Swiss francs).
25. Other current assets
Other current assetsin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Accrued interest income 34 51
Prepaid expenses 253 338
Derivative financial instruments33 151 357
Restricted cash 772 –
Other receivables 797 788
Total other current assets 2,007 1,534
Restricted cash consists of 682 million US dollars (772 million Swiss francs) of cash and investments pledged
by Genentech in connection with the City of Hope litigation (see Note 9). In 2003 this was included in financial
long-term assets (see Note 22).
Annual Report 2004 119Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
26. Marketable securities
Marketable securitiesin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Held-for-trading investments
– bonds and debentures 674 644
Available-for-sale current investments
– shares 1,229 1,399
– bonds and debentures 1,868 2,306
– money market instruments and time accounts over three months 6,623 6,470
Total marketable securities 10,394 10,819
Marketable securities are held for fund management purposes and therefore are classified as current. They are
primarily denominated in Swiss francs, euros, US dollars and pounds sterling. Other investments held for strategic
purposes are classified as non-current (see Note 22).
Shares: These consist primarily of readily saleable equity securities.
Bonds and debenturesin millions of CHF
Average
effective
Contracted maturity Amount interest rate
2004
Within one year 1,840 2.4%
Between one and five years 528 3.4%
More than five years 174 4.2%
Total bonds and debentures 2,542 2.7%
2003
Within one year 1,526 1.3%
Between one and five years 1,293 2.4%
More than five years 131 4.4%
Total bonds and debentures 2,950 1.9%
Money market instruments: These generally have fixed interest rates ranging from 0.52% to 4.90% (2003: 0.07%
to 6.06%) depending upon the currency in which they are denominated. They are contracted to mature within one
year of 31 December 2004.
27. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalentsin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Cash
– cash in hand and in current or call accounts 2,317 4,122
Cash equivalents
– time accounts with a maturity of three months or less 288 1,154
Total cash and cash equivalents 2,605 5,276
120 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
28. Accounts payable
Accounts payablein millions of CHF
2004 2003
Trade accounts payable 925 859
Other taxes payable 463 309
Other accounts payable 456 532
Total accounts payable 1,844 1,700
29. Accrued and other current liabilities
Accrued and other current liabilitiesin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Deferred income 107 87
Accrued payroll and related items 1,077 987
Interest payable 78 136
Derivative financial instruments33 170 148
Other accrued liabilities 2,579 2,309
Total accrued and other current liabilities 4,011 3,667
30. Provisions and contingent liabilities
Provisions: movements in recognised liabilities in millions of CHF
Environmental
and legal Restructuring Other 2004 2003
provisions provisions provisions Total Total
At beginning of year 1,312 443 257 2,012 2,860
Disposal of Consumer Health (OTC) business7 (1) – (1) (2) –
Vitamin case8
– additional provisions created – – – – –
– utilised during the year (66) – – (66) (638)
Major legal cases9
– additional provisions created – – – – –
– unused amounts reversed – – – – (108)
– utilised during the year – – – – (25)
Other provisions
– additional provisions created 55 86 77 218 305
– unused amounts reversed (54) (17) (13) (84) (99)
– utilised during the year (34) (163) (94) (291) (226)
Increase in discounted amount due to passage of time
or change in discount rate15 72 5 – 77 96
Currency translation effects (86) (6) (3) (95) (153)
At end of year 1,198 348 223 1,769 2,012
Of which
– current portion of provisions 873 144 69 1,086 542
– non-current portions of provisions 325 204 154 683 1,470
Total provisions 1,198 348 223 1,769 2,012
Expected outflow of resources
– within one year 873 144 69 1,086 542
– between one to two years 197 69 77 343 1,167
– between two to three years 22 39 12 73 88
– more than three years 106 96 65 267 215
Total provisions 1,198 348 223 1,769 2,012
Annual Report 2004 121Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Environmental and legal provisions
These provisions include 181 million Swiss francs (2003: 208 million Swiss francs) for environmental matters and
1,017 million Swiss francs (2003: 1,104 million Swiss francs) for litigation, including major legal cases and the
vitamin case.
Provisions for environmental matters cover various separate environmental issues in a number of countries.
Approximately half of these were pre-existing in companies acquired by the Group. By their nature the amounts
and timing of any outflows are difficult to predict. The Group estimates that approximately half of the amount
provided for may result in cash outflows over the next five years. Significant provisions are discounted by between
6% and 7%.
Legal provisions consist mainly of the major legal cases, notably the City of Hope Medical Center litigation (see
Note 9) and the vitamin case (see Note 8). The amounts, timing and uncertainties of any outflows are discussed
in those notes, as are the discount rates used. The remaining legal provisions, which account for less than 25%
of the balance, consist of a number of other separate legal matters in various Group companies. The majority of
any cash outflows are expected to occur within the next one to three years, although these are dependent on the
development of the various litigations. Significant provisions are discounted by between 5% and 6%.
Major legal cases are described in Note 9 and the vitamin case is described in Note 8. Other litigation matters,
which are currently not as significant, are described below.
Carvedilol arbitration:Roche Diagnostics GmbH (‘RDG’) and SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Ltd (‘SB’) are party to
arbitration concerning RDG’s termination in 1998 of the Carvedilol License Agreement of 1987, as amended in
1995, relating to the licensing and co-marketing of Carvedilol. RDG has submitted a claim for damages to an
Arbitration Tribunal in Zurich and SB has submitted a counterclaim asserting the invalidity of RDG’s termination
and claiming damages. The final decision of the Arbitration Tribunal is expected at the earliest in 2005. The
amount of provisions, if any, recorded by RDG is not disclosed as this may seriously prejudice RDG’s position in
this matter.
Applera litigation: On 9 October 2003 Applera Corporation (‘Applera’) filed suit against the Group in the Superior
Court of California and filed a Notice of Arbitration with the American Arbitration Association. Both the Superior
Court lawsuit and the arbitration demand make claims concerning the interpretation and enforcement of
contracts between the Group and Applera for the commercialisation of the polymerase chain reaction (‘PCR’)
technology. The claims seek termination of certain contracts, declarations regarding rights and obligations under
those contracts, and monetary damages and other relief in an unspecified amount for alleged breaches of
various agreements between the parties. On 15 December 2003, the Group filed its response in the arbitration
proceeding. On the same day, the Group also responded to Applera’s complaint in the Superior Court proceeding
by petitioning the Court to compel arbitration of the claims alleged by Applera and to stay the lawsuit pending
completion of the arbitration. On 22 October 2004 the Court of Appeal of the State of California ruled that the
petition to compel arbitration should be granted and remanded the case to the Superior Court, with directions to
grant the petition. A first meeting in the arbitration will take place in February 2005. No provisions have been
recorded in respect of these matters, as the outcome cannot be determined as of the date of these financial
statements.
Promega litigation:In 1992 the Group filed a suit against the Promega Corporation (‘Promega’) alleging patent
infringement and breach of a licence agreement relating to the polymerase chain reaction (‘PCR’) technology. In
May 2004 the US District Court of the Northern District of California decided that one of the patents concerned
was unenforceable and rejected the breach of licence claim. The suit regarding alleged infringement of the other
PCR patents is still in progress. On 12 November 2003 the Group was notified that Promega had filed a non-public
(Qui Tam) action against the Group with the US District Court of the Eastern District of West Virginia in March
2000. This complaint, filed under the False Claims Act, alleges that the US Federal Government was overcharged
in its purchase of PCR enzyme products. In July 2003 the US Federal Government notified the Court of its decision
not to intervene in Promega’s complaint and on 12 November 2003 the Court ordered the complaint of 2000 to be
unsealed. The Group filed a motion to dismiss this complaint and on 20 August 2004 the Court dismissed the
complaint with prejudice.
122 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Restructuring provisions
These arise from planned programmes that materially change the scope of business undertaken by the Group or
the manner in which business is conducted. Such provisions include only the costs necessarily entailed by the
restructuring which are not associated with the recurring activities of the Group. The remaining amounts are
mostly in respect of obligations towards former employees arising from the Pharmaceuticals Division
restructuring and other previous restructuring plans. The timings of these cash outflows are reasonably certain
on a global basis and are shown in the above table. Significant provisions are discounted by 4%.
Other provisions
Other provisions consist mostly of claims arising from trade and various other provisions from Group companies
that do not fit into the above categories. The timings of cash outflows are by their nature uncertain and the best
estimates are shown in the above table. These provisions are not discounted as the time value of money is not
considered material in this case.
Contingent liabilities
The operations and earnings of the Group continue, from time to time and in varying degrees, to be affected by
political, legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments, including those relating to environmental protection, in
the countries in which it operates. The industries in which the Group is engaged are also subject to physical risks
of various kinds. The nature and frequency of these developments and events, not all of which are covered by
insurance, as well as their effect on future operations and earnings are not predictable. See also Note 8 in respect
of the vitamin case and Note 9 in respect of major legal cases.
The Group has entered into strategic alliances with various companies in order to gain access to potential new
products or to utilise other companies to help develop the Group’s own potential new products. Potential future
payments may become due to certain collaboration partners achieving certain milestones as defined in the
collaboration agreements. The Group’s best estimate of future commitments for such payments is 215 million Swiss
francs in 2005, 219 million Swiss francs in 2006 and 169 million Swiss francs in 2007.
31. Other non-current liabilities
Other non-current liabilitiesin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Deferred income 262 149
Other long-term liabilities 682 905
Total other non-current liabilities 944 1,054
32. Debt
Debt: recognised liabilitiesin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Debt instruments 6,472 10,579
Amounts due to banks and other financial institutions 1,643 3,666
Capitalised lease obligations 701 890
Other borrowings 144 152
Total debt 8,960 15,287
Reported as
– Long-term debt 6,947 10,246
– Short-term debt 2,013 5,041
Total debt 8,960 15,287
Annual Report 2004 123Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Debt: repayment termsin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Within one year 2,013 5,041
Between one and two years 688 2,327
Between two and three years 2,297 493
Between three and four years 2,743 2,223
Between four and five years 568 3,010
More than five years 651 2,193
Total debt 8,960 15,287
The ‘LYONs’ zero coupon US dollar exchangeable notes (see below) are reflected as due the first year that the
holders of the notes can request the Group to purchase the notes.
The fair value of the debt instruments is 6.9 billion Swiss francs (2003: 11.6 billion Swiss francs) and the fair value
of total debt is 9.4 billion Swiss francs (2003: 16.3 billion Swiss francs). This is calculated based upon the present
value of the future cash flows on the instrument, discounted at a market rate of interest for instruments with
similar credit status, cash flows and maturity periods.
There are no pledges on the Group’s assets in connection with debt, except as noted below. The obligation arising
from leases at Genentech is secured on property, plant and equipment which has a net book value of 502 million
Swiss francs as at 31 December 2004.
Amounts due to banks and other financial institutions
Interest rates on these amounts, which are primarily denominated in euros, average approximately 3.5%
(2003: 3.4%). Repayment dates vary between one and four years. 683 million Swiss francs (2003: 1,571 million
Swiss francs) are due within one year.
Debt instruments
Recognised liabilities and effective interest rates of debt instrumentsin millions of CHF
Effective
interest rate 2004 2003
European Medium Term Note programme
4% bonds due 9 October 2008, principal 750 million euros 4.16% 1,150 1,159
5.375% bonds due 29 August 2023, principal 250 million
pounds sterling 5.46% 536 541
3.25% bonds due 2 October 2007, principal 750 million
US dollars 3.28% 848 926
Swiss franc bonds
‘Rodeo’ 1.75% due 20 March 2008,
principal 1 billion Swiss francs 3.00% 969 956
US dollar bonds
‘Chameleon’ 6.75% due 6 July 2009,
principal 487 million US dollars (1 billion US dollars in 2003) 6.77% 561 1,229
Zero coupon US dollar exchangeable notes
‘LYONs III’ due 6 May 2012, principal 3 billion US dollars in 2003 6.91% – 2,136
‘LYONs IV’ due 19 January 2015,
principal 1.506 billion US dollars in 2003 4.26% – 1,171
‘LYONs V’ due 25 July 2021, principal 2.051 billion US dollars 4.14% 1,264 1,233
124 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Effective
interest rate 2004 2003
Japanese yen exchangeable bonds
‘Sumo’ 0.25% due 25 March 2005,
principal 104.6 billion Japanese yen 1.89% 1,123 1,186
Limited conversion preferred stock
due 11 November 2004 3.00% – 2
Japanese yen convertible bonds issued by Chugai
‘Series 6 Chugai Pharmaceutical Unsecured Convertible Bonds’
1.05% due 30 September 2008, principal amount of
1.86 billion Japanese yen (3.44 billion Japanese yen in 2003) 1.05% 21 40
Total debt instruments 6,472 10,579
Weighted average effective interest rate 3.80% 4.65%
Unamortised discount included in carrying value of debt instruments in millions of CHF
2004 2003
Swiss franc bonds 34 44
US dollar bonds 4 8
Euro bonds 8 11
Sterling bonds 10 11
Zero coupon US dollar exchangeable notes 1,058 3,564
Japanese yen exchangeable bonds 4 23
Total unamortised discount 1,118 3,661
Issues of new debt instruments
There were no issues of new debt instruments in 2004. In 2003 the Group established a European Medium Term
Note programme and three issues were subsequently made.
Cash inflows from issue of new debt instruments in millions of CHF
2004 2003
European Medium Term Note programme
4% euro-denominated bonds issued 9 April 2003 – 1,104
5.375% sterling-denominated bonds issued 29 August 2003 – 547
3.25% US dollar-denominated bonds issued 2 October 2003 – 984
Total cash inflows for new issues during the year – 2,635
Repayments, redemptions and conversions of debt instruments
During 2004 the Group has converted or redeemed certain of its debt instruments. Debt was reduced by
4,026 million Swiss francs, the total cash outflow was 3,039 million Swiss francs and a net pre-tax gain of
908 million Swiss francs resulted as shown in Note 15. This net gain is reported as an exceptional item due to
themateriality. These transactions are described below.
Conversion and redemption of ‘LYONs IV’ US dollar exchangeable notes: On 3 March 2004 the Group
exercised its option to call these notes for redemption on 5 April 2004 at the original issue amount plus accrued
original issue discount (OID). The effective interest rate of these notes was 4.26%. In the period to 5 April 2004
notes with a principal amount of 1,506 million US dollars were called for conversion by the holders and the
remaining notes were redeemed for cash on 5 April 2004. A total of 12,999,662 Genentech shares were used to
meet these obligations. As a result the Group’s ownership of Genentech decreased by 2.45% and the Group
realised a pre-tax gain of 1,136 million Swiss francs on the part disposal of its interest in Genentech and
redemption of the remaining notes.
Annual Report 2004 125Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Redemption of ‘LYONs III’ US dollar exchangeable notes: On 5 April 2004 the Group exercised its option to
call these notes for redemption on 6 May 2004 at the original issue amount plus accrued original issue discount
(OID). The effective interest rate of these notes was 6.91%. Notes with a principal amount of 3 billion US dollars
were redeemed for cash. The Group realised a pre-tax loss of 60 million Swiss francs on the early redemption of
the notes.
Partial redemption of ‘Chameleon’ US dollar bonds: On 3 June 2004 the Group announced a tender offer for
the redemption of the ‘Chameleon’ bond. The effective interest rate of these bonds was 6.77%. The tender offer
expired on 23 June 2004 and pricing was on 24 June 2004, at which point bonds with a principal amount of
513 million US dollars, representing approximately 51.25% of the outstanding bonds, had been tendered for
redemption. Settlement was made on 29 June 2004. The Group realised a pre-tax loss of 74 million Swiss francs
on the partial early redemption of these bonds.
Redemption of Limited Conversion Preferred Stock: On the mandatory redemption date of 11 November
2004 the Group redeemed the remaining instruments at the original issue amount plus accrued interest. The
effective interest rate of these instruments was 3.00%. Instruments with a principal amount of 2 million US dollars
were redeemed for cash. The Group did not realise any gain or loss on the redemption of these instruments.
Reassessment of probable redemption date of ‘LYONs V’ US dollar exchangeable notes: Effective
30September 2004 the Group reassessed the likely future cash outflows for this instrument and concluded it was
appropriate to consider the first call date of 25 July 2007 as most probable date of cash flows. Accordingly, using
the effective interest rate method, the Group recorded a pre-tax expense of 94 million Swiss francs and an
increase in debt of the same amount. This reflects an increase in the carrying value of the debt to allow the
accreted value to meet the issue price plus accrued original issue discount (OID) at 25 July 2007. There was no
cash effect in 2004.
Partial conversion of ‘Series 6 Chugai Pharmaceutical Unsecured Convertible Bonds’: During 2004 bonds
with a face value of 1.6 billion Japanese yen (18 million Swiss francs) were converted to shares of Chugai. The Group’s
percentage ownership in Chugai was unaffected by this conversion, as the Group has bonds convertible into Chugai
shares that mirror those that Chugai has outstanding with third parties. The net accounting effect of Chugai
convertible bond conversions and Chugai share repurchases is recorded to minority interests (see Note37).
Conversion of ‘Helveticus’ Swiss franc convertible bonds: By the due date of 31 July 2003 all of the remaining
Swiss franc convertible bonds originally issued in 1995 were converted into non-voting equity securities
(Genussscheine).A total of 2,167,600 non-voting equity securities were used to meet the conversion obligations
of the ‘Helveticus’ bonds in 2003. In accordance with the terms of the bonds, an additional cash payment of
CHF 200 per bond was made upon the conversion of the remaining principal. The conversion reduced debt by
207 million Swiss francs, of which 202 million Swiss francs was in the form of non-voting equity securities and
5million Swiss francs in the form of cash.
Cash outflows from repayments and redemptions of debt instrumentsin millions of CHF
2004 2003
‘LYONs IV’ US dollar exchangeable notes (5) –
‘LYONs III’ US dollar exchangeable notes (2,316) –
‘Chameleon’ US dollar bonds (715) –
Limited Conversion Preferred Stock (3) –
‘Bullet’ Swiss franc bonds – (1,250)
‘LYONs II’ US dollar exchangeable notes – (1,830)
‘Helveticus’ Swiss franc convertible bonds – (5)
Total cash outflows from repayments and redemptions during the year (3,039) (3,085)
Terms of outstanding convertible debt instruments
‘LYONs V’: The notes are exchangeable for Non-voting Equity Securities (NES) or American Depositary Shares
(ADS) at an exchange ratio of 5.33901 NESs or 10.67802 exchange ADSs per USD 1,000 principal amount at
maturity of the notes. The Group will purchase any note forcash, at the option of the holder, on 25 January 2005,
126 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
25 July 2007 and 25 July 2011 for a purchase price per USD 1,000 principal amount of the notes of USD 552.79,
USD 604.74 and USD 698.20, respectively. In addition, the notes will be redeemable at the option of the Group in
whole or in part at any time after 25 July 2007 at the issue price plus accrued original issue discount (OID). If the
notes outstanding at 31 December 2004 were all exchanged it would require 10,952,268 non-voting equity
securities to meet the obligation.
‘Sumo’: Each bond of JPY 1,410,000 par value is exchangeable for 103.292 non-voting equity securities of Roche
Holding Ltd. The bonds will be redeemable at maturity at the issue price (96.4%) plus accrued original issue
discount (OID) at 100%. If the bonds outstanding at 31 December 2004 were all exchanged it would require
7,664,266 non-voting equity securities to meet the obligation.
‘Series 6 Chugai Pharmaceutical Unsecured Convertible Bonds’: Each bond of JPY 1,000,000 par value is
convertible for 1,311 shares of Chugai. Conversion is at the option of the bondholder and may be made at any
time up to the due date of 30 September 2008. The bonds will be redeemable at maturity at the issue price. If the
bonds outstanding at 31 December 2004 were all converted it would require 2,440,655 Chugai shares to exactly
meet the obligation. The Group’s percentage ownership in Chugai would not be affected by any conversion, as
the Group has bonds convertible into Chugai shares that mirror those that Chugai has outstanding with third
parties.
33. Derivative financial instruments
In appropriate circumstances the Group uses derivative financial instruments as part of its risk management and
trading strategies. This is discussed in Note 2. Derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value. The
methods used for determining fair value are described in Note 1.
Derivative financial instrumentsin millions of CHF
Assets Liabilities
2004 2003 2004 2003
Foreign currency derivatives
– forward exchange contracts and swaps 85 167 (99) (98)
– other 1 4 (4) –
Interest rate derivatives
– swaps 22 12 (6) (42)
– other – – – –
Other derivatives 43 174 (61) (8)
Total derivative financial instruments25, 29 151 357 (170) (148)
Hedge accounting
The Group’s accounting policy on hedge accounting, which is described in Note 1, requires that to qualify for
hedge accounting the hedging relationship must meet several strict conditions on documentation, probability of
occurrence, hedge effectiveness and reliability of measurement.
As described in Note 2, the Group has financial risk management policies, which cover foreign exchange risk,
interest rate risk, market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. When deemed appropriate, certain of the above risks
are altered through the use of derivatives. While many of these transactions can be considered as hedges
in economic terms, if the required conditions are not met, then the relationship does not qualify for hedge
accounting. In this case the hedging instrument and the hedged item are reported independently as if there were
no hedging relationship, which means that any derivatives are reported at fair value, with changes in fair value
included in financial income.
The Group generally limits the use of hedge accounting to certain significant transactions. Consequently as at
31December 2004 the Group has no fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investment in a foreign
entity that meet the strict requirements to qualify for hedge accounting, apart from those described below.
Annual Report 2004 127Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
The Group has hedged some of its fixed term debt instruments with interest rate swaps. As at 31 December 2004
such instruments, which are designated and qualify as fair value hedges, are recorded in the balance sheet with
a fair value of 15 million Swiss francs.
Genentech has non-US dollar cash flows from future royalty income and development expenses expected over
the next one to five years. To hedge part of this transaction exposure Genentech enters into derivative financial
instruments such as options and forward contracts. Genentech has equity investments in various biotechnology
companies that are subject to a greater risk of market fluctuation than the stock market in general. To manage
part of this exposure Genentech enters into derivative financial instruments such as zero cost collars and forward
contracts. As at 31 December 2004 such instruments, which are designated and qualify for hedge accounting, are
recorded in the balance sheet with a fair value of 25 million Swiss francs. These matters are also described in
Genentech's annual report and quarterly SEC filings.
Movements on the fair value reserve for designated cash flow hedges are included in Note 36.
34. Equity
Share capital
As of 31 December 2004, the share capital of Roche Holding Ltd, which is the Group’s parent company, consists
of 160,000,000 shares with a nominal value of 1.00 Swiss franc each, as in the preceding year. The shares are
bearer shares and the Group does not maintain a register of shareholders. Based on information supplied to the
Group, a shareholders’ group with pooled voting rights owns 50.0125% (2003: 50.0125%) of the issued shares.
This is further described in Note 38. Based on information supplied to the Group, Novartis International Ltd, Basel,
and its affiliates own 33.3330% (participation below 331⁄%) of the issued shares (2003: 33.3330%).
3
Non-voting equity securities(Genussscheine)
As of 31 December 2004, 702,562,700 non-voting equity securities were in issue as in the preceding year. Under
Swiss company law these non-voting equity securities have no nominal value, are not part of the share capital
and cannot be issued against a contribution which would be shown as an asset in the balance sheet of Roche
Holding Ltd. Each non-voting equity security confers the same rights as any of the shares to participate in the net
profit and any remaining proceeds from liquidation following repayment of the nominal value of the shares and,
if any, participation certificates. In accordance with the law and the Articles of Incorporation of Roche Holding
Ltd, the Company is entitled at all times to exchange all or some of the non-voting equity securities into shares
or participation certificates.
Dividends
On 6 April 2004 the shareholders approved the distribution of a dividend of 1.65 Swiss francs per share and non-
voting equity security (2003: 1.45 Swiss francs) in respect of the 2003 business year. The distribution to holders
of outstanding shares and non-voting equity securities totalled 1,414 million Swiss francs (2003: 1,229 million
Swiss francs) and has been recorded against retained earnings in 2004. The Board has proposed dividends for
the 2004 business year of 2.00 Swiss francs per share and non-voting equity security. This is subject to approval
at the Annual General Meeting on 28 February 2005.
Own equity instruments
In 2003, following the redemption of the ‘LYONs II’ exchangeable notes on 20 April 2003 (see Note 32) and in light
of the restructuring of the Group’s treasury operations and debt financing, the Group carried out a comprehensive
review of the arrangements whereby it covers the potential conversion obligations that may arise from its
convertible debt instruments. The Group refinanced the various instruments that cover its potential obligations to
deliver non-voting equity securities. The Group sold 11,671,933 of those non-voting equity securities that it
previously held in a series of transactions, in addition to the 2,744,893 non-voting equity securities utilised for the
Disetronic transaction (see Note 3) and the 2,167,600 utilised for the conversion of the ‘Helveticus’ bonds (see
Note 32). The Group also agreed with its counter-parties to restructure its previous arrangements which used
written/short put options and purchased/long call options at the same strike price, which had the combined effect
of a forward purchase. By 31 December 2003 all of these arrangements have been closed. In addition, in 2003
theGroup purchased from various counter-parties Low Exercise Price Options (LEPOs), which give the Group the
right to purchase non-voting equity securities at a low strike price.
128 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Own equity instrumentsin equivalent number of non-voting equity securities
31 December 31 December
2004 2003
Non-voting equity securities 87,386 6,448,687
Low Exercise Price Options 21,080,081 16,591,394
Forward purchases and derivative instruments 4,723,565 3,023,565
Total non-voting equity instruments 25,891,032 26,063,646
Own equity instruments are recorded within equity at original cost of acquisition. Details of own equity
instruments held at 31 December 2004 are shown in the table below. Fair values are disclosed for information
purposes.
Own equity instruments: supplementary information
Equivalent number
of non-voting Strike price Fair value
equity securities Maturity (CHF) (millions of CHF)
Non-voting equity securities 87,386 n/a n/a 11
Low Exercise Price Options 21,080,081 21 Feb. 2005– 0.01–10.00 2,664
30 Nov. 2007
Derivative instruments
– Roche Option Plan 3,611,605 26 Feb. 2009– 77.80–129.50 92
3 Feb. 2011
– other options 1,111,960 17 Feb. 2005– 150.00–250.00 2
24 Apr. 2006
Total 25,891,032 2,769
Non-voting equity securities and Low Exercise Price Options are mainly held for the potential conversion
obligations that may arise from the Group’s convertible debt instruments (see Note 32). The Group’s potential
obligations to employees for the Roche Option Plan (see Note 12) are covered by call options that are exercisable
at any time up to their maturity. The Group also holds a residual number of options that were purchased for use
in the Group’s previous option compensation scheme, which is now closed (see Note 12).
The net cash inflow from transactions in own equity instruments was 237 million Swiss francs (2003: net cash
outflow of 15 million Swiss francs). Additionally in 2003 there was a net cash outflow of 1,635 million Swiss francs
from the refinancing of instruments covering convertible debt obligations.
The Group holds none of its own shares.
35. Earnings per share and non-voting equity security
Basic earnings per share and non-voting equity security
For the calculation of basic earnings per share and non-voting equity security, the number of shares and non-
voting equity securities is reduced by the weighted average number of its own non-voting equity securities held
by the Group during the period.
Annual Report 2004 129Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Basic earnings per share and non-voting equity security
Continuing
businesses Group
2004 2003 2004 2003
Net income (millions of CHF) 4,339 3,074 6,641 3,069
Number of shares (millions)34 160 160 160 160
Number of non-voting equity securities (millions)34 703 703 703 703
Weighted average number of own non-voting equity
securities held (millions) (22) (24) (22) (24)
Weighted average number of shares and non-voting
equity securities in issue used to calculate basic earnings
per share (millions) 841 839 841 839
Basic earnings per share and non-voting equity security (CHF) 5.16 3.67 7.90 3.66
Diluted earnings per share and non-voting equity security
For the calculation of diluted earnings per share and non-voting equity security, the net income and weighted
average number of shares and non-voting equity securities outstanding are adjusted for the effects of all dilutive
potential shares and non-voting equity securities.
Potential dilutive effects arise from the convertible debt instruments and the employee stock option plans. If the
outstanding convertible debt instruments were to be converted this would lead to a reduction in interest expense
and an increase in the number of shares which may have a net dilutive effect on the earnings per share.
The exercise of outstanding vested employee stock options would have a dilutive effect. The exercise of
the outstanding vested Genentech employee stock options would have a dilutive effect if the net income of
Genentech is positive. The diluted earnings per share and non-voting equity security shows the potential impacts
of these dilutive effects on the earnings per share figures.
Diluted earnings per share and non-voting equity security
Continuing
businesses Group
2004 2003 2004 2003
Net income (millions of CHF) 4,339 3,074 6,641 3,069
Elimination of interest expense, net of tax,
of convertible debt instruments, where dilutive (millions of CHF) 15 60 15 60
Increase in minority share of Group net income, net of tax,
assuming all outstanding Genentech stock options exercised
(millions of CHF) (31) (26) (31) (26)
Net income used to calculate diluted earnings per share
(millions of CHF) 4,323 3,108 6,625 3,103
Weighted average number of shares and non-voting equity
securities in issue (millions) 841 839 841 839
Adjustment for assumed conversion of convertible debt instruments,
where dilutive (millions) 8 20 8 20
Weighted average number of shares and non-voting equity securities
in issue used to calculate diluted earnings per share (millions) 849 859 849 859
Diluted earnings per share and non-voting equity security (CHF) 5.09 3.62 7.81 3.61
130 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
36. Fair value and other reserves
Fair value and other reserves: movement in recognised amountsin millions of CHF
Fair value Fair value
reserve: reserve:
available- qualifying Equity Currency
for-sale cash flow conversion translation 2004 2003
investments hedges options reserve Total Total
At beginning of year 132 (41) 110 (3,193) (2,992) (2,642)
Changes in fair value 138 (51) – – 87 167
Fair value (gains) losses recognised
in the income statement 26 – – – 26 244
Fair value (gains) losses recognised
in the balance sheet3 – 43 – – 43 –
Deferred income taxes16 (37) 18 – – (19) 1
Minority interests37 (17) 11 – – (6) (16)
Currency translation gains (losses) (19) 2 – (945) (962) (746)
At end of year 223 (18) 110 (4,138) (3,823) (2,992)
Included in the movements in the currency translation reserve are 44 million Swiss francs relating to the
Consumer Health (OTC) business. These were included in the calculation of the gain on disposal of that business.
See Note 7.
37. Minority interests
Minority interests: movement in recognised amounts in millions of CHF
2004 2003
At beginning of year 5,594 4,963
Minority share of Group net income, net of tax 499 367
Net effect of movements in fair value (charged) credited to equity36 6 16
Conversion and redemption of ‘LYONs IV’ US dollar exchangeable notes32 78 –
Net effect of exercise of Genentech stock options
and Genentech stock repurchases5 (643) 793
Net effect of partial conversion of Chugai convertible bonds
and Chugai share repurchases6, 32 7 (48)
Chugai dividend payments6 (68) (26)
Currency translation effects (403) (471)
At end of year 5,070 5,594
Of which
– Genentech5 3,240 3,810
– Chugai6 1,811 1,783
– other 19 1
Total minority interests 5,070 5,594
38. Related parties
Controlling shareholders
The share capital of Roche Holding Ltd, which is the Group’s parent company, consists of 160,000,000 bearer
shares. Based on information supplied by a shareholders’ group with pooled voting rights, comprising Ms Vera
Michalski-Hoffmann, Ms Maja Hoffmann, Mr André Hoffmann, Dr Andreas Oeri, Ms Sabine Duschmalé-Oeri,
MsCatherine Oeri, Ms Beatrice Oeri and Ms Maja Oeri, that group holds 80,020,000 shares as in the preceding
year, which represents 50.01% of the issued shares. This figure does not include any shares without pooled voting
rights that are held outside this group by individual members of the group.
Annual Report 2004 131Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Mr André Hoffmann and Dr Andreas Oeri are members of the Board of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd and in this
capacity receive an annual remuneration of 300 thousand Swiss francs. In addition Mr Hoffmann and Dr Oeri
receive 20 thousand Swiss francs and 10 thousand Swiss francs respectively for their time and expenses related
to their membership of Board committees. Until his retirement at the Annual General Meeting on 6 April 2004
DrFritz Gerber was a member of the above mentioned shareholders’ group and was also a member of the Board
of Directors of Roche Holding Limited. For the period until 6 April 2004 Dr Gerber received a remuneration of
75thousand Swiss francs and a pension of 396 thousand Swiss francs.
There were no other transactions between the Group and the individual members of the above shareholders’
group.
Subsidiary and associated companies
A listing of the major Group subsidiaries and associated companies is included in Note 41. Transactions between
the parent company and its subsidiaries and between subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
Transactions between the Group and its associated companies in millions of CHF
2004 2003
Income statement
Income from the sale of goods or supply of services – 4
Expenses for the purchase of goods or supply of services – (21)
Milestone and other upfront payments – (11)
Balance sheet
Trade accounts receivable – 1
Trade accounts payable – –
Key management personnel
Members of the Board of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd receive an annual remuneration and payment for their
time and expenses related to their membership of Board committees. Total payments to non-executive directors
in 2004 for this remuneration and expenses were 3 million Swiss francs (2003: 3 million Swiss francs). Payments
to Dr Franz B. Humer, who is also a member of the Executive Committee, are included in the figures for the
Executive Committee below.
Members of the Executive Committee received total remuneration as shown in the table below.
Remuneration of members of the Executive Committeein millions of CHF
2004 2003
Salary 12 13
Bonuses 5 4
Total cash remuneration paid 17 17
Options awarded
(equivalent number of non-voting equity securities) 147,815 226,482
Pension and social insurance contributions paid by the Group 8 6
As part of the Roche Performance Share Plan, members of the Executive Committee were awarded 193,418
non-voting equity securities with a fair value of 25 million Swiss francs in respect of the Group’s performance in
2002–2004. See also Note 12.
Supplementary information is given within the Group’s Corporate Governance disclosures on pages 48–56.
132 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
39. Cash flow statement
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash flows from operating activities are those derived from the Group’s primary activities, as described in the
divisional review. This is calculated by the indirect method, adjusting the Group’s operating profit for any
operating income and expenses that are not cash flows (for example depreciation, amortisation and impairment)
in order to derive the cash generated from operations. This and other operating cash flows are shown in the cash
flow statement. Operating cash flows also include income taxes paid on all activities, including, for example, the
taxes paid on the gains from the conversion and redemption of bonds.
Cash generated from operationsin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Net income 6,641 3,069
Add back non-operating (income) expense
– Income from associated companies20 43 44
– Financial income15 359 667
– Exceptional income from bond conversion and redemption32 (908) –
– Income taxes16 2,345 1,445
– Income applicable to minority interests37 499 367
Operating profit 8,979 5,592
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment17 1,247 1,303
Amortisation of goodwill18 579 497
Amortisation of intangible assets19 1,026 1,013
Impairment of long-term assets14 39 25
Changes in Group organisation3 (2,304) 395
Chugai transaction: write-off of fair value adjustments to inventories6 – 49
Major legal cases9 – (216)
Expense for defined benefit post-employment plans11 532 469
Other adjustments (350) 63
Cash generated from operations 9,748 9,190
Cash flows from investing activities
Cash flows from investing activities are principally those arising from the Group’s investments in property, plant
and equipment and intangible assets, and from the acquisition and divestment of subsidiaries, associated
companies and businesses. Cash flows connected with the Group’s portfolio of marketable securities and other
investments are also included as are any interest and dividend payments received in respect of these securities
and investments. These cash flows indicate the Group’s net reinvestment in its operating assets and the cash flow
effects of the changes in Group organisation, as well as the cash generated by the Group’s other investments.
Interest and dividends receivedin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Interest received 221 225
Dividends received 34 61
Total 255 286
Cash flows from financing activities
Cash flows from financing activities are primarily the proceeds from issue and repayments of the Group’s equity
and debt instruments. They also include interest payments and dividend payments on these instruments. Cash
flows from short-term financing, including finance leases, are also included. These cash flows indicate the
Group’s transactions with the providers of its equity and debt financing. Cash flows from short-term borrowings
are shown as a net movement, as these consist of a large number of transactions with short maturity.
Annual Report 2004 133Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Interest and dividends paidin millions of CHF
2004 2003
Interest paid (489) (493)
Dividends paid6, 34 (1,482) (1,255)
Total (1,971) (1,748)
Significant non-cash transactions
In 2004 significant non-cash investing and financing transactions included the conversion of the ‘LYONs IV’ notes
into Genentech shares (see Note 32).
In 2003 significant non-cash investing and financing transactions included the non-voting equity securities used
in the Disetronic acquisition (see Note 3), the DSM shares acquired from the disposal of the Vitamins and Fine
Chemicals business (see Note 8) and the non-voting equity securities used in the conversion of the ‘Helveticus’
bonds (see Note 32).
40. Subsequent events
There were no significant events after the balance sheet date.
134 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
41. Subsidiaries and associated companies
Listed companies
Share capital Equity interest
Country Company City (in mill.) (in %)
Switzerland Roche Holding Ltd Basel CHF 160.0
Stock Exchange: Zurich
Valor Share: 1203211
Valor Genussscheine: 1203204
ISIN Share: CH0012032113
ISIN Genussscheine: CH0012032048
Market Capitalisation: CHF 113,195.0 mill.
Basilea Pharmaceutica Ltd. Basel CHF 7.4 33.2
Stock Exchange: Zurich, NASDAQ Biotech
Valor: 1143244
ISIN: CH0011432447
Market Capitalisation: CHF 668.0 mill.
USA Genentech, Inc. South San Francisco USD 20.9 56.1
Stock Exchange: New York (incorporated in Delaware)
ISIN: US3687104063
Market Capitalisation: USD 57,005.6 mill.
TriPath Imaging Inc. Burlington USD 0.4 21.0
Stock Exchange: NASDAQ NM
ISIN: US8969421093
Market Capitalisation: USD 341.9 mill.
Japan Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Tokyo JPY 70,532.0 50.6
Stock Exchange: Tokyo
ISIN: JP3519400000
Market Capitalisation: JPY 931,030.4 mill.
Great Britain Antisoma plc London GBP 2.7 7.8
Stock Exchange: London
ISIN: GB0055696032
Market Capitalisation: GBP 43.2 mill.
Non-listed companies
Share capital Equity interest
Country Company City (in mill.) (in %)
Argentina Productos Roche S.A. Química e Industrial Buenos Aires ARS 83.0 100
Australia Roche Diagnostics Australia Pty. Limited Castle Hill AUD 5.0 100
Roche Products Pty. Limited Dee Why AUD 65.0 100
Syntex Australia Limited North Sydney AUD 25.1 100
Austria Roche Austria GmbH Vienna EUR 14.5 100
Roche Diagnostics GmbH Vienna EUR 1.5 100
Bangladesh Roche Bangladesh Ltd. Dhaka BDT 27.2 100
Belgium N.V. Roche S.A. Brussels EUR 4.8 100
Roche Diagnostics Belgium S.A. Brussels EUR 3.8 100
Bermuda Canadian Pharmholding Ltd. Hamilton GBP (–) 100
Corange International Ltd. Hamilton USD 1.0 100
Corange Ltd. Hamilton USD 38.0 100
Roche Capital Management Ltd. Hamilton USD 1.0 100
Roche Capital Transactions Limited Hamilton USD (–) 100
Roche Financial Investments Ltd. Hamilton USD (–) 100
Roche Financial Services Ltd. Hamilton USD 0.1 100
Roche Healthcare Limited Hamilton USD 1.0 100
Roche Interfinance Ltd. Hamilton USD (–) 100
Roche International Finance (Bermuda) Ltd. Hamilton USD (–) 100
Roche International Ltd. Hamilton USD (–) 100
Roche Intertrade Ltd. Hamilton USD 10.0 100
Roche Services Holdings Ltd. Hamilton USD (–) 100
Syntex Pharmaceuticals International Ltd. Hamilton USD (–) 100
Brazil Produtos Roche Químicos e Farmacêuticos S.A.São Paulo BRL 41.7 100
Roche Diagnostics Brasil Ltda. São Paulo BRL 126.5 100
Bulgaria Roche Bulgaria Eood Sofia BGN 5.1 100
Canada Chempharm Limited Toronto CAD 2.0 100
Hoffmann-La Roche Limited Toronto CAD 15.3 100
Sapac Corporation Ltd. St. John USD (–) 100
Annual Report 2004 135Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Share capital Equity interest
Country Company City (in mill.) (in %)
Chile Productos Farmoquímicos Roche Ltda. Santiago de Chile CLP 70.9 100
China Roche Diagnostics (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong HKD 10.0 100
Roche Diagnostics (Shanghai) Limited Shanghai USD 1.0 100
Roche Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong HKD 10.0 100
Roche R&D Center (China) Ltd. Shanghai USD 6.3 100
Shanghai Roche Pharmaceuticals Limited Shanghai USD 19.5 70
Colombia Productos Roche S.A. Bogotá COP 1,923.7 100
Costa Rica Productos Roche S.A. San José USD 0.1 100
Roche Servicios S.A. San José USD 0.1 100
Czech Republic Roche s.r.o. Prague CZK 200.0 100
Denmark Roche a/s Hvidovre DKK 4.0 100
Dominican Productos Roche Dominicana S.A. Santo Domingo DOP 0.6 100
Republic
Ecuador Roche Ecuador S.A. Quito USD 1.1 100
Egypt Roche Egypt SAE Giza EGP 1.0 100
Ropharm Limited Giza EGP 0.1 95
El Salvador Productos Roche (El Salvador) S.A. San Salvador USD (–) 100
Finland Roche Oy Espoo EUR 0.1 100
France Hoffmann-La Roche France S.A.S. Neuilly-sur-Seine EUR 52.7 100
Roche Diagnostics S.A. Meylan EUR 16.0 100
Roche S.A. Neuilly-sur-Seine EUR 35.2 100
Germany Disetronic Medical Systems GmbH Sulzbach EUR (–) 100
Galenus Mannheim GmbH Mannheim EUR 1.7 100
Hestia Health Care GmbH Mannheim EUR 1.5 100
Hoffmann-La Roche Aktiengesellschaft Grenzach-Wyhlen EUR 61.4 100
Roche Deutschland Holding GmbH Grenzach-Wyhlen DEM 10.0 100
Roche Diagnostics GmbH Mannheim EUR 94.6 100
Great Britain Roche Diagnostics Ltd. Lewes GBP 22.6 100
Roche Holding (UK) Limited Welwyn Garden City GBP 100.0 100
Roche Products Limited Welwyn Garden City GBP 61.0 100
Roche Registration Limited Welwyn Garden City GBP (–) 100
Greece Roche (Hellas) S.A. Athens EUR 19.5 100
Guatemala Productos Roche Guatemala S.A. Guatemala GTQ 0.6 100
Guernsey Roche Capital Market International Limited St. Peter Port CHF 0.5 100
Roche Financial Market Limited St. Peter Port CHF 0.2 100
Roche International Finance St. Peter Port CHF 10.0 100
Corporation Limited
Honduras Productos Roche (Honduras), S.A. Tegucigalpa HNL (–) 100
Hungary Roche (Hungary) Ltd. Budapest HUF 25.0 100
India Roche Diagnostics India (Pvt) Ltd. Mumbai INR 20.2 100
Roche Scientific Company (India) Mumbai INR 1.0 100
Private Limited
Indonesia P.T. Roche Indonesia Jakarta IDR 1,323.0 92.9
Ireland Roche Ireland Limited Clarecastle EUR 6.4 100
Roche Products (Ireland) Limited Dublin EUR 0.2 100
Italy Roche Diagnostics S.p.A. Milan EUR 18.1 100
Roche S.p.A. Milan EUR 34.1 100
Japan Roche Diagnostics K.K. Tokyo JPY 2,500.0 100
Luxembourg Pharminvest S.A. Luxembourg EUR 28.0 100
Malaysia Roche Diagnostics (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Kuala Lumpur MYR 0.9 100
Roche Malaysia Sdn Bhd Kuala Lumpur MYR 4.0 100
136 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Share capital Equity interest
Country Company City (in mill.) (in %)
Mexico Grupo Roche Syntex de México, S.A. de C.V. Mexico City MXN 3.5 100
Lakeside de México, S.A. de C. V. Mexico City MXN 48.0 100
Productos Roche S.A. de C.V. Mexico City MXN 2.2 100
Syntex S.A. de C.V. Mexico City MXN 80.4 100
Morocco Roche S.A. Casablanca MAD 9.5 45
Netherlands Roche Diagnostics Nederland B.V. Almere EUR 2.3 100
Roche Finance Europe B.V. Woerden EUR 2.0 100
Roche Nederland B.V. Woerden EUR 10.9 100
Roche Pharmholding B.V. Woerden EUR 467.8 100
New Zealand Roche Diagnostics New Zealand Pty. Ltd. Auckland NZD 3.0 100
Roche Products (New Zealand) Limited Auckland NZD 13.5 100
Nicaragua Productos Roche (Nicaragua) S.A. Managua NIO (–) 100
Norway Roche Norge A/S Oslo NOK 11.0 100
Pakistan Roche Pakistan Ltd. Karachi PKR 38.3 100
Panama Productos Roche Interamericana S.A. Panama City USD 0.1 100
Productos Roche Panamá S.A. Panama City PAB (–) 100
Roche Capital Corporation Panama City USD (–) 100
Syntex Corporation Panama City USD 1.0 100
Peru Productos Roche Química Farmacéutica S.A. Lima PEN 11.2 100
Philippines Roche (Philippines) Inc. Makati PHP 100.0 100
Poland Roche Diagnostics Polska Sp. z o.o. Warsaw PLN 2.0 100
Roche Polska Sp. z o.o. Warsaw PLN 2.0 100
Portugal Roche Farmacêutica Química Lda. Amadora EUR 1.1 100
Roche Sistemas de Diagnósticos Sociedade Linda-A-Velha EUR 0.6 100
Unipessoal Lda.
Puerto Rico Syntex Puerto Rico Inc. Humacao USD (–) 100
Russia Roche Moscow Ltd. Moscow RUB 2.6 100
Singapore Roche Diagnostics Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. Singapore SGD 3.4 100
Roche Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore SGD 4.0 100
Slovakia Roche Slovensko, S.R.O. Bratislava SKK 10.0 100
South Africa Roche Products (Proprietary) Limited Johannesburg ZAR 5.0 100
South Korea Roche Diagnostics Korea Co., Ltd. Seoul KRW 19,000.0 100
Roche Korea Company Ltd. Seoul KRW 13,375.0 100
Spain Andreu Roche S.A. Madrid EUR 0.1 100
Roche Diagnostics S.L. Barcelona EUR 18.0 100
Roche Farma S.A. Madrid EUR 54.1 100
Syntex Roche S.A. Madrid EUR 0.1 100
Sweden Roche AB Stockholm SEK 20.0 100
Roche Diagnostics Scandinavia AB Bromma SEK 9.0 100
Switzerland Disetronic Handels AG Burgdorf CHF 0.1 100
Disetronic Holding AG Burgdorf CHF 9.7 100
Disetronic Licensing AG Burgdorf CHF 0.1 100
Disetronic Medical Systems AG Burgdorf CHF 0.9 100
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd Basel CHF 150.0 100
IMIB Insitute for Medical Informatics Basel CHF 0.1 100
and Biostatistics Ltd.
Pharmexbio Ltd. Zug CHF 0.1 100
Rabbit-Air Ltd. Zurich-Kloten CHF 3.0 100
Roche Diagnostics (Schweiz) Ltd. Rotkreuz CHF 1.0 100
Roche Diagnostics International Ltd. Steinhausen CHF 20.0 100
Roche Finance Ltd. Basel CHF 409.2 100
Roche Instrument Center Ltd. Rotkreuz CHF 5.0 100
Roche Kapitalmarkt AG Basel CHF 1.0 100
Roche Pharma (Switzerland) Ltd. Reinach CHF 2.0 100
Syntex Corporation Basel CHF 0.2 100
Taiwan Roche Diagnostics Ltd. Taipei TWD 80.0 100
Roche Products Ltd. Taipei TWD 100.0 100
Annual Report 2004 137Notes to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Share capital Equity interest
Country Company City (in mill.) (in %)
Thailand Roche Diagnostics (Thailand) Limited Bangkok THB 103.0 100
Roche Thailand Limited Bangkok THB 12.0 100
Turkey Roche Diagnostik Sistemleri Ticaret A.S. Istanbul TRY 0.5 100
Roche Müstahzarlari Sanayi Anonim Sirketi Istanbul TRY 121.0 100
Uruguay Roche International Ltd. Montevideo UYU (–) 100
Sapac Corporation Ltd. Montevideo UYU (–) 100
USA American Roche International Inc. Little Falls CAD 0.1 100
Disetronic Medical Systems Inc. St. Paul USD 0.1 100
Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. Nutley USD 3.0 100
Igen International Inc. Wilmington USD (–) 100
Roche Carolina Inc. Florence USD (–) 100
Roche Colorado Corporation Boulder USD 0.1 100
Roche Diagnostics Corporation Indianapolis USD (–) 100
Roche Holdings Inc. Wilmington USD 1.0 100
Roche Laboratories Inc. Nutley USD (–) 100
Roche Molecular Systems Inc. Pleasanton USD (–) 100
Roche Palo Alto LLC Palo Alto USD (–) 100
Venezuela Productos Roche S.A. Caracas VEB 200.0 100
(–) = share capital of less than 100,000 local currency units.
138 Annual Report 2004Report of the Group Auditors
Report of the Group Auditors to the General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
As group auditors, we have audited the consolidated financial statements (income statement, balance sheet,
statement of changes in equity, cash flow statement and notes on pages 76 to 138) of Roche Holding Ltd for the
year ended 31 December 2004. The prior year corresponding figures were audited by other group auditors.
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Board of Directors. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We confirm that we meet the
legal requirements concerning professional qualification and independence.
Our audit was conducted in accordance with auditing standards promulgated by the Swiss profession and with
the International Standards on Auditing (ISA), which require that an audit be planned and performed to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. We
have examined on a test basis evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements. We have also assessed the accounting principles used, significant estimates made and the overall
consolidated financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our
opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position, the results
of operations and the cash flows in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and
comply with Swiss law.
We recommend that the consolidated financial statements submitted to you be approved.
KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler SA
John A. Morris Erik F.J. Willems
Basel, 27 January 2005
Annual Report 2004 139Multi-Year Overview
Statistics, as reported
1995 1996 1997b)
Statement of income in millions of CHF
Sales 14,722 15,966 18,767
EBITDA 4,176 4,629 5,076
Operating profit 3,057 3,420 3,590
Net income 3,372 3,899 (2,031)
Research and development 2,290 2,446 2,903
Balance sheet in millions of CHF
Long-term assets 12,632 15,487 32,453
Current assets 22,932 24,289 22,323
Total assets 35,564 39,776 54,776
Equity 17,554 20,780 18,250
Minority interests 799 835 1,187
Non-current liabilities 11,554 12,727 21,181
Current liabilities 5,657 5,434 14,158
Additions to property, plant and equipment 1,490 1,624 1,802
Personnel
Number of employees at end of year 50,497 48,972 51,643
Key ratios
Net income as % of sales 23 24 –11
Net income as % of equity 19 19 –11
Research and development as % of sales 16 15 15
Current ratio % 405 447 158
Equity and minority interests as % of total assets 51 54 36
Sales per employee in thousands of CHF 292 326 363
Data on shares and non-voting equity securities
Number of shares 1,600,000 1,600,000 1,600,000
Number of non-voting equity securities (Genussscheine) 7,025,627 7,025,627 7,025,627
Total shares and non-voting equity securities 8,625,627 8,625,627 8,625,627
Total dividend in millions of CHF 552 647 716
Earnings per share and non-voting equity security (diluted)
in CHF 391 452 (235)
Dividend per share and non-voting equity security in CHF 64a) 75 83
Cash and warrants in addition to dividend (adjusted) in CHF – 36 –
Cash and warrants in addition to dividend (unadjusted) in CHF – 36 –
Information in this table is stated as reported. Changes in accounting policy arising from changes in International Financial
Reporting Standards and the 100 for 1 stock split in 2001 are not applied retrospectively.
a) In addition to the normal dividend, the shareholders approved for each share and each non-voting equity security a special
RO100 centenary warrant worth CHF 36 on date of issue or, at the holder’s option, a cash equivalent of CHF 36.
b) 1997 net income and related key ratios are shown after special charges of 6,308 million Swiss francs, net of tax, incurred
following the Corange acquisition and include Corange only in respect of balance sheet data.
140 Annual Report 2004Multi-Year Overview
1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
24,662 27,567 28,672 29,163 29,453 31,220 31,273
6,423 8,874 11,126 6,438 7,993 8,609 9,566
4,350 6,421 7,131 3,247 1,335 5,592 8,979
4,392 5,764 8,647 3,697 (4,026) 3,069 6,641
3,408 3,782 3,950 3,893 4,257 4,766 5,093
27,952 35,800 34,798 36,411 33,143 29,820 28,670
27,927 34,631 34,737 38,875 30,852 29,666 29,406
55,879 70,431 69,535 75,286 63,995 59,486 58,076
21,666 26,954 27,608 28,973 20,810 23,570 28,223
1,149 3,047 4,428 4,894 4,963 5,594 5,070
21,416 25,574 23,642 25,772 22,850 18,658 14,882
11,648 14,856 13,857 15,647 15,372 11,664 9,901
1,883 2,150 2,183 1,931 2,044 2,265 2,357
66,707 67,695 64,758 63,717 69,659 65,357 64,703
18 21 30 13 –14 10 21
20 21 31 13 –19 13 24
14 14 14 13 14 15 16
240 233 251 248 201 254 297
41 43 46 45 40 49 57
370 407 443 458 427 482 483
1,600,000 1,600,000 1,600,000 160,000,000 160,000,000 160,000,000 160,000,000
7,025,627 7,025,627 7,025,627 702,562,700 702,562,700 702,562,700 702,562,700
8,625,627 8,625,627 8,625,627 862,562,700 862,562,700 862,562,700 862,562,700
750 863d) 992 1,121 1,251 1,423 1,725e)
509 668 1,024 4.37 (4.80) 3.61 7.81
87 100d) 115 1.30 1.45 1.65 2.00e)
190c) – – – – – –
190c) – – – – – –
c) If 1996 warrants held to final exercise date.
d) Dividend 1999 does not include the special dividend relating to the spin-off of the Fragrances and Flavours Division.
e) Dividend 2004 as proposed by the Board of Directors.
Annual Report 2004 141Multi-Year Overview
Sales by division in millions of CHF
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
Pharmaceuticals 15,992 17,062 17,294 19,781 21,695
Diagnostics 6,252 6,900 7,194 7,409 7,827
Consumer Health (OTC) 1,694 1,661 1,578 1,770 1,751
Vitamins and Fine Chemicals 3,571 3,540 3,387 2,260 –
Fragrances and Flavours 1,163 – – – –
Total 28,672 29,163 29,453 31,220 31,273
Sales by geographical area in millions of CHF
Switzerland 509 513 529 529 442
European Union 9,012 9,000 9,011 9,681 10,563
Rest of Europe 1,266 1,282 1,439 1,520 993
Europe 10,787 10,795 10,979 11,730 11,998
North America 10,636 11,264 11,102 10,789 11,025
Latin America 2,928 2,827 2,376 2,076 1,825
Japan 1,580 1,589 2,243 3,948 3,875
Rest of Asia 1,814 1,829 1,804 1,697 1,553
Asia 3,394 3,418 4,047 5,645 5,428
Africa, Australia and Oceania 927 859 949 980 997
Total 28,672 29,163 29,453 31,220 31,273
Additions to property, plant and equipment by division in millions of CHF
Pharmaceuticals 1,117 1,043 1,040 1,315 1,572
Diagnostics 603 558 666 764 778
Consumer Health (OTC) 15 8 7 13 6
Vitamins and Fine Chemicals 372 284 298 172 –
Fragrances and Flavours 68 – – – –
Others 8 38 33 1 1
Total 2,183 1,931 2,044 2,265 2,357
Additions to property, plant and equipment by geographical area in millions of CHF
Switzerland 361 272 298 262 232
European Union 731 613 598 747 808
Rest of Europe 31 51 79 54 17
Europe 1,123 936 975 1,063 1,057
North America 610 717 783 835 1,030
Latin America 229 138 115 69 74
Japan 53 45 81 220 128
Rest of Asia 120 67 62 50 46
Asia 173 112 143 270 174
Africa, Australia and Oceania 48 28 28 28 22
Total 2,183 1,931 2,044 2,265 2,357
142 Annual Report 2004Supplementary Net Income and EPS Information
The Group’s basic and diluted earnings per share information is given in Note 35 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements on pages 129–130. Supplementary EPS information is given below on net income before exceptional
items and also on core net income, which additionally excludes amortisation of intangible assets and the related
impacts on income taxes and minority interests.
Net income before exceptional items and core net income in millions of CHF
2004 2003
Net income (continuing businesses) 4,339 3,074
Goodwill amortisation 572 489
– income tax – –
– minority interests (116) (117)
456 372
Major legal cases – (216)
– income tax – 87
– minority interests – 54
– (75)
Changes in Group organisation 199 –
– income tax (33) –
– minority interests – –
166 –
Exceptional financial income (908) –
– income tax 290 –
– minority interests – –
(618) –
Net income before exceptional items (continuing businesses) 4,343 3,371
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,000 986
– income tax (358) (356)
– minority interests (78) (80)
564 550
Core net income 4,907 3,921
EPS before exceptional items and Core EPS
EPS before
exceptional items Core EPS
2004 2003 2004 2003
Net income (millions of CHF) 4,343 3,371 4,907 3,921
Elimination of interest expense, net of tax,
of convertible debt instruments, where dilutive 50 60 50 60
Increase in minority share of Group net income, net of tax,
assuming all outstanding Genentech stock options exercised (31) (26) (31) (26)
Net income used to calculate diluted earnings per share 4,362 3,405 4,926 3,955
Per share information
(millions of shares and non-voting equity securities)
Weighted average number of shares
and non-voting equity securities in issue 841 839 841 839
Adjustment for assumed conversion
of convertible debt instruments, where dilutive 19 20 19 20
Weighted average number of shares and non-voting equity
securities in issue used to calculate diluted earnings per share 860 859 860 859
Earnings per share (diluted)(CHF) 5.07 3.97 5.73 4.61
Annual Report 2004 143Roche Securities
Share price performance in CHF
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
Roche share (adjusted) Swiss Market Index (rebased)
Non-voting equity security (Genussschein) price performance in CHF
200
160
120
80
40
0
1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
Roche non-voting equity security (adjusted) Swiss Market Index (rebased)
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) price performance in USD
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
Roche ADR (adjusted) S&P 500 Index (rebased)
Two Roche American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) are equivalent to one non-voting equity security (Genussschein).ADRs have been
traded in the United States over-the-counter market since July 1992.
Information in these tables is restated for the 100 for 1 stock split of Roche shares and non-voting equity securities (Genussscheine)
effective 4 May 2001 and the change in the ratio for the ADRs from 1:1 to 2:1 effective 24 January 2005.
144 Annual Report 2004Roche Securities
Number of shares and non-voting equity securitiesa)
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
Number of shares
(nominal value 2000: CHF 100,
2001–2004: CHF 1.00) 1,600,000 160,000,000 160,000,000 160,000,000 160,000,000
Number of non-voting equity securities
(Genussscheine) (no nominal value) 7,025,627 702,562,700 702,562,700 702,562,700 702,562,700
Total 8,625,627 862,562,700 862,562,700 862,562,700 862,562,700
Data per share and non-voting equity security in CHF
Net income 1,024 4.37 (4.80) 3.61 7.81
Equity 3,201 33.59 24.13 27.33 32.72
Dividend 115 1.30 1.45 1.65 2.00c)
Stock price of shareb) High 26,375 201.00 195.00 185.00 193.00
Low 16,800 114.00 130.50 121.00 137.20
Year-end 20,100 136.00 175.00 171.50 150.00
Stock price of non-voting
equity security (Genussschein)b) High 18,755 165.35 132.75 125.25 140.25
Low 14,900 95.10 92.00 75.15 118.75
Year-end 16,510 118.50 96.35 124.75 130.90
Market capitalisation in millions of CHF
Year-end 143,455 102,209 93,473 112,210 113,195
Key ratios (year-end)
Net income as % of equity 31 13 –19 13 24
Dividend yield of shares in % 0.6 1.0 0.8 1.0 1.3
Dividend yield of non-voting
equity securities (Genussscheine)in % 0.7 1.1 1.5 1.3 1.5
Price/earnings of shares 20 31 –36 48 19
Price/earnings of non-voting
equity securities (Genussscheine) 16 27 –20 35 17
a) Each non-voting equity security (Genussschein) confers the same rights as any of the shares to participate in the available
earnings and any remaining proceeds from liquidation following repayment of the nominal value of the shares and the
participation certificate capital (if any). Shares and non-voting equity securities are listed on the Swiss Exchange. Roche Holding Ltd
has no restrictions as to ownership of its shares or non-voting equity securities.
b) All stock price data reflect daily closing prices.
c) 2004 dividend as proposed by the Board of Directors.
Ticker symbols
Share Non-voting equity security American Depositary Receipt
Reuters RO.S ROG.VX RHHBY.PK
Bloomberg RO SW ROG VX RHHBY US
SWX Swiss Exchange RO ROG –
Annual Report 2004 145Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
Financial Statements
Income statement in millions of CHF
2004 2003
Income
Income from participations 1,750 3,397
Interest income from loans to Group companies 53 36
Interest and investment income 4 8
Gain on disposal of participations 75 –
Other income from Group companies 100 –
Other income 47 155
Total income 2,029 3,596
Expenses
Financial expenses (14) (41)
Administration expenses (22) (23)
Loss on disposal of participations – (1,006)
Depreciation on participations – (810)
Other expenses (166) (148)
Total expenses (202) (2,028)
Profit for the year before taxes 1,827 1,568
Taxes (12) (6)
Net profit for the year 1,815 1,562
146 Annual Report 2004Financial Statements
Balance sheet at 31 December in millions of CHF
2004 2003
Long-term assets
Participations 4,510 5,029
Long-term loans to Group companies 845 526
Total long-term assets 5,355 5,555
Current assets
Short-term loans to Group companies 2,102 –
Accounts receivable from Group companies 940 2,690
Other accounts receivable 3 5
Marketable securities 1,207 176
Liquid funds 40 616
Total current assets 4,292 3,487
Total assets 9,647 9,042
Equity
Share capital 160 160
Non-voting equity securities (Genussscheine) p.m. p.m.
General legal reserve 300 300
Free reserve 4,324 4,184
Special reserve 2,152 2,152
Available earnings:
– Balance brought forward from previous year 4 5
– Net profit for the year 1,815 1,562
Total equity 8,755 8,363
Non-current liabilities
Provisions 35 36
Loans from Group companies 830 503
Total non-current liabilities 865 539
Current liabilities
Accounts payable to Group companies 1 100
Other liabilities 26 40
Total current liabilities 27 140
Total liabilities 892 679
Total equity and liabilities 9,647 9,042
p.m. = pro memoria. Non-voting equity securities have no nominal value.
Annual Report 2004 147Notes to the Financial Statements
General
The financial statements of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel, are prepared in accordance with the provisions of Swiss law.
Valuation methods and translation of foreign currencies
In the balance sheet, assets and liabilities are disclosed at net realisable values. Exceptions to this rule are
participations, which are shown at their acquisition values less appropriate write-downs, and marketable
securities, which are shown at the lower of cost or market value. Unrealised foreign currency gains on balance
sheet items are deferred. Expenses and income, as well as foreign currency transactions, are translated at
exchange rates ruling at the relevant transaction dates.
Details to specific items
Taxes
The tax charge includes corporate income and capital taxes, withholding taxes and stamp duty.
Equity
Movement in recognised amounts in millions of CHF
General
Share legal Free Special Available Total
capital reserve reserve reserve earnings equity
As at 1 January 2002 160 300 3,559 2,152 1,455 7,626
– Net income – – – – 1,546 1,546
– Dividends paid – – – – (1,121) (1,121)
– Transfer to free reserve – – 330 – (330) –
As at 31 December 2002 160 300 3,889 2,152 1,550 8,051
– Net income – – – – 1,562 1,562
– Dividends paid – – – – (1,250) (1,250)
– Transfer to free reserve – – 295 – (295) –
As at 31 December 2003 160 300 4,184 2,152 1,567 8,363
– Net income – – – – 1,815 1,815
– Dividends paid – – – – (1,423) (1,423)
– Transfer to free reserve – – 140 – (140) –
As at 31 December 2004 160 300 4,324 2,152 1,819 8,755
Share capital
As in the previous year, share capital amounts to 160 million Swiss francs. The share capital consists of
160,000,000 bearer shares with a nominal value of 1 Swiss franc each. Included in equity are 702,562,700 non-
voting equity securities (Genussscheine). They are not part of the share capital and confer no voting rights.
However each non-voting equity security (Genussschein)does confer the same rights as any one of the shares to
participate in the available earnings and in any remaining proceeds from liquidation following repayment of the
share capital.
Guarantees
Within the framework of the European Medium Term Note (EMTN) programme the company has issued
guarantees in favour of Group companies amounting to 2,808 million Swiss francs (previous year 1,707 million
Swiss francs).
At the time of preparing the balance sheet no risks arising out of these contingent liabilities were discernible.
148 Annual Report 2004Notes to the Financial Statements
Convertibles and options
Reference is made to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Own equity instruments
Reference is made to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Pledged assets
Assets with a total book value of 2 million Swiss francs (previous year 8 million Swiss francs) have been pledged
as security for the Company’s own commitments.
Participations
The major participations are listed on pages 135 to 138.
Important shareholders
All shares in the Company are bearer shares, and for this reason the Company does not keep a register of
shareholders. The following figures are based on information from shareholders, the shareholder validation check
at the Annual General Meeting of 6 April 2004 and on other information available to the Company.
80,020,000 (previous year 80,020,000) shares: Shareholders’ group with pooled voting rights, comprising Ms Vera
Michalski-Hoffmann, Ms Maja Hoffmann, Mr André Hoffmann, Dr Andreas Oeri, Ms Sabine Duschmalé-Oeri,
MsCatherine Oeri, Ms Beatrice Oeri and Ms Maja Oeri.a)
53,332,863 (previous year 53,332,863) shares (participation below 331⁄%): Novartis International Ltd, Basel
3
including affiliates thereof.b)
a) Information supplied by the shareholders. This figure of 80,020,000 shares does not include shares without pooled voting rights
held outside the group by individual members of the group.
b) Figures as of 31 December 2004 supplied by Novartis International Ltd, Basel.
Annual Report 2004 149Appropriation of Available Earnings
Proposals to the General Meeting in CHF
2004 2003
Available earnings
Net profit for the year 1,815,438,499 1,562,360,279
Balance brought forward from previous year 3,622,789 4,490,965
Total available earnings 1,819,061,288 1,566,851,244
Appropriation of available earnings
Distribution of an ordinary dividend of CHF 2.00 gross
per share and non-voting equity security (Genussschein)
as against CHF 1.65 last year (1,725,125,400) (1,423,228,455)
Transfer to free reserve (90,000,000) (140,000,000)
Total appropriation of available earnings (1,815,125,400) (1,563,228,455)
To be carried forward on this account 3,935,888 3,622,789
150 Annual Report 2004Report of the Statutory Auditors
to the General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
As statutory auditors, we have audited the accounting records and the financial statements (income statement,
balance sheet and notes on pages 146 to 149) of Roche Holding Ltd for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Theprior year corresponding figures were audited by other auditors.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Board of Directors. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We confirm that we meet the legal requirements
concerning professional qualification and independence.
Our audit was conducted in accordance with auditing standards promulgated by the Swiss profession, which
require that an audit be planned and performed to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. We have examined on a test basis evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements. We have also assessed the accounting principles used, significant
estimates made and the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the accounting records and financial statements and the proposed appropriation of available
earnings comply with Swiss law and the Company’s articles of incorporation.
We recommend that the financial statements submitted to you be approved.
KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler SA
John A. Morris Erik F.J. Willems
Basel, 27 January 2005
Annual Report 2004 151Sales Manufacturing
Overview Switzerland Costa Rica
Argentina Czech Republic
Australia Denmark
Austria Dominican Republic
Bangladesh Ecuador
Belgium Egypt
Bermuda El Salvador
Brazil Finland
Canada France
Chile Germany
China Great Britain
Colombia Greece
152 Annual Report 2004Roche – a Global Market
Presence
Roche – a Global Market Presence
Research and development Services, financing Toll manufacturing by third parties
Guatemala Morocco Russia
Guernsey The Netherlands Singapore
Honduras New Zealand South Africa
Hungary Nicaragua South Korea
India Norway Spain
Indonesia Pakistan Sweden
Ireland Panama Taiwan
Italy Peru Thailand
Japan Philippines Turkey
Luxembourg Poland Uruguay
Malaysia Portugal USA
Mexico Puerto Rico Venezuela
Annual Report 2004 153Published by Cautionary statement regarding forward-
F.Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd looking statements
4070 Basel,Switzerland This Annual Report contains certain forward-look-
Tel.+41 (0)61 688 11 11 ing statements. These forward-looking statements
Fax +41 (0)61 691 93 91 may be identified by words such as ‘believes’,
‘expects’, ‘anticipates’, ‘projects’, ‘intends’, ‘should’,
Media Office ‘seeks’, ‘estimates’, ‘future’ or similar expressions
Corporate Communications or by discussion of, among other things, strategy,
4070 Basel,Switzerland goals, plans or intentions. Various factors may
Tel.+41 (0)61 688 88 88 cause actual results to differ materially in the future
Fax +41 (0)61 688 27 75 from those reflected in forward-looking statements
contained in this Annual Report, among others:
Investor Relations (1)pricing and product initiatives of competitors;
4070 Basel,Switzerland (2) legislative and regulatory developments and
Tel.+41 (0)61 688 88 80 economic conditions; (3) delay or inability in
Fax +41 (0)61 691 00 14 obtaining regulatory approvals or bringing prod-
ucts to market; (4) fluctuations in currency
World Wide Web exchange rates and general financial market condi-
http://www.roche.com tions; (5) uncertainties in the discovery, develop-
ment or marketing ofnew products or new uses of
To order publications existing products; (6) increased government pric-
Tel.+41 (0)61 688 83 39 ing pressures; (7) interruptions in production;
Fax +41 (0)61 688 43 43 (8) loss of or inability to obtain adequate protec-
E-mail:basel.webmaster@roche.com tion for intellectual property rights; (9) litigation;
(10) loss ofkey executives or other employees;and
(11) adverse publicity and news coverage.
Next Annual General Meeting: 28 February 2005
All trademarks mentioned enjoy legal protection.
The Roche Annual Report is published in German
(original language) and English.
The Roche Annual Report is issued by F. Hoffmann-La Roche
Ltd, Basel, Corporate Communications.
Design: Wirz Corporate AG, Zurich
Source Associates AG, Zurich
Photos: Roland Tännler, Zurich
Raphael David Koch, Zurich
Roche Corporate Photolibrary, Basel
Typesetting: Stauffer-Febel AG, Basel
Lithos: Lithoteam AG, Allschwil-Basel
Printers: Birkhäuser+GBC AG, Reinach-Basel
Binding: Buchbinderei Grollimund AG, Reinach-Basel
154 Annual Report 20047-000-664