Annual Report
2015
P A T I E N T S P E O P L E P A R T N E R S
Positive late-stage clinical study Keeping pace with our emerging New collaborations, such as the
results on our investigational market growth, we are aiming strategic partnership established
medicine ocrelizumab in multiple to increase the representation with Foundation Medicine, help
sclerosis give hope to people living of people with established and drive innovation and provide
with this disease who need more developing region experience in new possibilities in R&D and
treatment options. key leadership positions. improved patient care.Contents
Overview
02 Who we are
04 What we do
06 2015 highlights
08 Chairman’s shareholder letter
14 CEO’s shareholder letter
Business review
22 Annual performance
24 Market environment
Diagnostics
32 Sales performance
34 Transforming laboratory practice
Pharmaceuticals
44 Sales performance
46 Key regulatory milestones
Innovation
54 R&D overview
56 Personalised cancer immunotherapy
64 Pharmaceuticals pipeline newsflow
Access to healthcare
82 Country-specific access planning
88 Innovative pricing and access models
On the cover Responsible business
By applying innovative cell culture methods, Christoph Patsch, PhD, a laboratory head from the 94 A culture of compliance
Roche Innovation Center Basel, recreates human diseases in a dish. These patient-specific cells 97 Managing opportunity and risk
provide a valuable model to study the underlying disease biology and ultimately identify novel 102 Putting patient safety first
drug targets for therapeutic approaches.
People
106 Expanding diversity and inclusion
108 Committed to leadership
Environment and community
116 Safety, security, health and environment
132 Philanthropic engagement
Corporate governance report
140 Board of Directors
142 Corporate Executive Committee
Remuneration report
158 Principles
164 Remuneration componentsRoche | Who we are Who we are | Roche
W ho we are
Innovation: it’s in our DNA.
As the world’s largest biotech company, we develop
# 1
We have always worked across breakthrough medicines, improving the standard- in biotech, oncology, in vitro
of-care across oncology, immunology, infectious diagnostics and hospital market
disciplines and geographies to
diseases, ophthalmology and neuroscience. We are
also the world leader in the in vitro diagnostics
drive scientific discovery and
business. This track record allows us to build lasting
29
redefine what is possible to and meaningful partnerships across the world with Roche medicines on the
research academia and public healthcare institutions. WHO Essential Medicines List
improve patients’ lives.
The founding families continue to hold the majority
We are working on understanding how diseases stake in the company. This stability allows for a
91,747
differ down to the molecular level. So we can develop tradition of sustainable thinking, so we can learn
new tests and medicines that prevent, diagnose and from setbacks and focus on lasting value for patients employees in over 100 countries
treat diseases that matter and bring them to the and society. We remain dedicated to the highest
patients who need them. With our combined strengths standards of quality, safety and integrity. Our legacy
in diagnostics and pharmaceuticals, our personalised is based on respect for the individual, as well as the
48.1
CHF bn
healthcare strategy aims to fit the right treatment to communities and the world we live in.
the right patient. in Group sales in 2015
2 3Roche | What we do What we do | Roche
Focus on patients Excellence in science Personalised healthcare
• Disease awareness and treatment • Product portfolio strategy • R&D pipeline strategy and
education • Patent policies personalised healthcare
• Patient organisation support • Data transparency on clinical trials For details, see Pharmaceuticals, Diagnostics and
• Drug efficacy, safety and counterfeiting For details, see Innovation and Responsible Innovation chapters.
• Biosimilar safety business chapters.
For details, see Pharmaceuticals, Diagnostics,
W hat we do
Access to healthcare and Responsible business
chapters.
Access to healthcare Great workplace Sustainable value
We are a research-based,
We conducted a materiality analysis in 2014 at
global healthcare company the corporate level amongst our key stakeholders
to map out the most important topics related to
with combined strengths
these priorities.
in pharmaceuticals and
As a result, we identified 21 material topics
diagnostics. that stood out as highly relevant to us and to our
key stakeholders, with a significant economic,
We develop, manufacture and deliver innovative environmental or social impact. These material
medicines and diagnostic instruments and tests topics are reflected in our business priorities and
that help millions of patients globally. With a clear we have concrete actions related to them in our • Sustainable healthcare • Employee engagement and • Environmental responsibility
set of priorities, we aim to achieve sustainable operational activities.* • Growth strategy in emerging and talent retention • Compliance
growth and deliver value to all of our stakeholders. developed markets • Compensation/benefits • Occupational accidents
• Pricing • Leadership commitments • Community engagement
For details, see Access to healthcare chapter. • Organisational effectiveness • Supply chain management
• Executive compensation For details, see Responsible business and
For details, see People chapter and Environment and community chapters.
Remuneration report.
* For more information about our materiality process and outcomes, see www.roche.com/materiality
4 5Roche | 2015 highlights 2015 highlights | Roche
2015 hig hlig ht s
Partnership with Foundation Medicine FDA breakthrough therapy designation FDA breakthrough therapy designation for Carbon Disclosure Project recognition
on molecular information for venetoclax in two forms of leukemia emicizumab (ACE910) in hemophilia A on climate change mitigation
US approval of Lucentis in FDA breakthrough therapy designation Positive phase III results for ocrelizumab FDA approval for cobas HBV, cobas HCV US approval of Alecensa
diabetic retinopathy for Actemra in systemic sclerosis in two forms of multiple sclerosis and cobas HIV viral load tests in a type of lung cancer
December
January
EU approval of Avastin in Positive phase II results for atezolizumab EU approval of Perjeta regimen Launch of first Roche First national HPV primary US and EU approval of Cotellic plus
advanced cervical cancer in advanced bladder cancer in early breast cancer PCR liquid biopsy test screening tender won in Europe Zelboraf in advanced melanoma
FDA breakthrough therapy designation for FDA clearance for cobas flu A/B test Dow Jones Sustainability Indices leader Positive phase III results for Gazyva/Gazyvaro in
atezolizumab in a type of lung cancer for use on our cobas Liat-System in healthcare for the 7th year running a type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma and leukemia
6 7Roche | Chairman’s shareholder letter Chairman’s shareholder letter | Roche
Remaining sustainably successful
Successful research and development of new tests and
medicines and improving access to our medical solutions
are key to the sustainable development of our business.
Dear Shareholders, and will continue to contribute to achieving this
goal. Our main contribution is developing tests
In 2015, sales grew strongly across our two divisions, and medicines to meet some of the most urgent
Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics. This enabled us medical needs.
to post net income of CHF 9.1 billion, despite the
substantial appreciation of the Swiss franc. We owe This is an area in which diagnostics, in particular,
this primarily to the dedication and passion of our is likely to play a more significant role in the future.
91,747 employees. And I thank each and every one! It enables our health to be managed more effectively
—from prevention through targeted therapy to the
“2015 was
Unfortunately 2015 will also stand out in our memories monitoring of chronic disorders—and there is still
as a year of wars, terror and epidemics. Many of these a lot of untapped potential here.
events affected me personally because employees,
former colleagues or friends were harmed and because As part of our strategic focus on long-term success,
I know some of the crisis regions very well. As the we are also conducting research in fields where the
a successful year
father of five children, I also ask myself how we can probability of success is not particularly high but
continue doing justice to future generations. In the the medical need is all the greater. We want to drive
past 25 years, the global economy has doubled in size, the progress in medical options available to patients
as has the global ecological footprint. The latter is with neurological diseases. In this endeavour, we
now many times greater than our environment can recently produced some strong results in trials for Roche.”
bear in the longer term. investigating the treatment of multiple sclerosis.
Against this background, I am encouraged by the Furthermore, we are encouraged by the opportunities
17 new ‘Sustainable Development Goals’ adopted by opened up by information technology. Our aim
the Member States of the United Nations in September is to turn the wealth of medical data into valuable
2015. One of these goals is ‘Good health and well- knowledge to aid research and the selection of Christoph Franz
being.’ As a global healthcare company, Roche can therapies for the individual patient. We were
Chairman of the Board
8 9Roche | Chairman’s shareholder letter Chairman’s shareholder letter | Roche
“In light of our strong performance,
therefore delighted to have finalised our partner- resulting in improved insights into specific regional In light of our strong performance and positive
ship agreements with Foundation Medicine and and national challenges at the local level and tailored outlook, the Board of Directors is proposing a
we are proposing another dividend
Flatiron Health in the field of oncology. These plans to address them. dividend increase to CHF 8.10 per share and non-
relationships should lead to further improvements voting equity security. Subject to your approval, this
increase.”
in outcomes for cancer patients. We are aware that in the world’s poorest countries, will be the 29th dividend increase in as many years.
patents can present a hurdle to the provision of
It is important to us that our therapies reach all basic medical care. This is why we do not register In addition to the re-election of existing members,
of the patients who need them. In some countries and enforce patent rights in these countries. In the AGM will see some changes on the Board of Since the company was founded nearly 120 years ago,
the latest medicines and diagnostics are freely more affluent countries, however, patents create the Directors. As you are already aware, Dame DeAnne Roche has always questioned the status quo and set
available, in others even the most basic things are incentives needed for high-risk investments. Once Julius, a member of the Board of Directors since 2002, new standards.
lacking. Take the example of HIV/AIDS. It is not a patent has expired, society benefits too because and Professor Dr Beatrice Weder di Mauro, a Board
enough to distribute medicines at cost price if there important medicines become permanently available member since 2006, have decided not to stand for It is a great pleasure for me to be part of such an
are insufficient healthcare workers, facilities and at a reduced cost. I am proud that 29 of the medicines re-election in 2016. Both have made extraordinarily innovative company. And I can assure you that we
diagnostic tools to administer the therapies correctly. we have developed now feature on the World Health valuable contributions over many years to the will continue to do everything in our power to ensure
We are working to overcome these hurdles in Organisation Essential Medicines List, among them company’s successful development. On behalf of that your company continues to deliver scientific
partnership with public and private stakeholders. life-saving antibiotics, malaria and cancer medicines. the Roche Board of Directors, I would like to extend excellence for the benefit of patients in the future.
Here, I would like to mention the HIV Global our sincerest thanks to them.
Access Programme that we have launched with As an innovative healthcare company, we regard I would like to thank you, our shareholders, for your
partners such as UNAIDS, the Joint United Nations sustainability as both a responsibility and a growth I am delighted to be able to propose Julie Brown confidence in our company.
Programme on HIV/AIDS, and the Clinton Health driver. Recent recognition demonstrates that our and Dr Claudia Süssmuth Dyckerhoff as new
Access Initiative. The aim of the programme is efforts here are successful. Roche is the only healthcare members of the Board of Directors. Both have a
to provide certain low-income countries with long- company to have been awarded the maximum score wealth of international management experience.
term supplies of HIV viral load tests. by the non-profit organisation CDP (formerly the As Chief Financial Officer of the British medical
Carbon Disclosure Project) in its leading ranking technology company Smith & Nephew, Julie Brown
The question of access to new products inevitably has of companies’ responses to climate change. And for has extensive knowledge of sales and finance in the
an ethical component too. We take this issue seriously the seventh time in a row, Roche has been identified healthcare industry. Claudia Süssmuth Dyckerhoff
and want to help patients gain access to our products, as the most sustainable healthcare company in the is currently a Senior Partner at the consulting firm
including in countries with low purchasing power. Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. of McKinsey and Company, where she is Leader of Christoph Franz
Roche is one of the first companies to have established the Healthcare Systems & Services Practice in Asia. Chairman of the Board
a differentiated pricing policy in developing regions. These awards do not mean that we are satisfied with
In 2015, we advanced our access planning strategy, the status quo. We must renew our efforts every
day so that we can stay ahead of the game and live
up to our strong commitment to being a sustainable
“We have been named the most
company. That applies to everything we do.
sustainable healthcare company in the
Ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to welcoming
you at the 98th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of
world every year since 2009.”
Roche Holding Ltd on 1 March 2016. I would like
to take this opportunity to mention two important
items from the agenda.
10 11Roche | Board of Directors Board of Directors | Roche
Board of Directors
From left to right
Bernard Poussot (1952) C, E
Paul Bulcke (1954) B, E
Peter R. Voser (1958) C, E
Prof. Dr Beatrice Weder di Mauro (1965) B, E
Dr Severin Schwan (1967) F
Dame DeAnne Julius (1949) B*, E
Dr Christoph Franz (1960) Chairman, C, D*, E
André Hoffmann (1958) Vice-Chairman, Representative
of the shareholder group with pooled voting rights,
A, C*, D, E
Dr Andreas Oeri (1949) Representative of the
shareholder group with pooled voting rights, A*, E
Prof. Sir John Irving Bell (1952) B, E
Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton (1958) E
Prof. Dr Pius Baschera (1950) A, E
A Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
B Audit Committee
C Remuneration Committee
D Presidium/Nomination Committee
E Non-executive director
F Executive director
* Committee chairperson
Roche Board of Directors on 31 December 2015
12 13Roche | CEO’s shareholder letter CEO’s shareholder letter | Roche
A great year for our pipeline
2015 was a successful year, as we made great strides innovating
medicines for patients with difficult-to-treat diseases including
multiple sclerosis, different types of cancer and hemophilia A.
Dear Shareholders, These scientific successes have been made possible
by a solid financial foundation, which was further
In a year that contained many highlights, one that strengthened in 2015. With sales increasing by 5%,*
particularly stood out for me was without question the Group's core earnings per share for 2015 were
the phase III results which we presented on our 7%** higher than in the previous year. These positive
investigational medicine ocrelizumab in multiple results can be attributed to the continuing strength
sclerosis. This is a devastating disease and current of our underlying business.
treatments vary in benefit and patients need better
options. We have the potential to improve this In the Pharmaceuticals Division, oncology and
situation, particularly in the primary progressive immunology contributed significantly to sales growth
“Diversity drives
form of this chronic disease, for which no effective of 5%. Following our acquisition of InterMune in
treatments are yet available. 2014, I am particularly pleased to report that Esbriet
—a treatment for the fatal condition of idiopathic
In oncology, we made significant advances with our pulmonary fibrosis—is showing very good growth.
cancer immunotherapy portfolio, obtaining positive Another highlight in 2015 was the approval of Cotellic
innovation.”
outcomes for bladder and lung cancer in pivotal trials in combination with Zelboraf for the treatment of
of our lead candidate atezolizumab. We are really advanced melanoma in both the US and Europe.
encouraged by the improved, sustained outcomes
we are seeing for cancer patients and are investing In the Diagnostics Division, the launch of new cobas
strongly in this promising treatment approach. We instruments marks the achievement of a milestone
are studying more than 20 investigational cancer in automated, integrated laboratory diagnostics. Severin Schwan
immunotherapy medicines, nine of which are in These new systems permit substantially higher test
Chief Executive Officer
clinical trials. throughput and greater flexibility. They thus provide
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (average 2014). | ** This increase excludes the one-time benefit of
CHF 428 million before tax related to the divestment of filgrastim rights in 2014.
14 15Roche | CEO’s shareholder letter CEO’s shareholder letter | Roche
“As an innovation-driven company,
an important benefit for healthcare providers, who are We also received approval from the FDA for Improving health outcomes requires all stakeholders
constantly striving for efficiency gains. The laboratory Alecensa (alectinib) for the treatment of a specific —public and private—to work closely together to
our employees play a central role in
business contributed substantially to the Diagnostics form of lung cancer. This medicine was created by achieve sustainable solutions. I am convinced that
Division's 6% sales growth. Chugai and approved in Japan in 2014. Roche has together we will succeed in improving quality
our success.”
simultaneously developed a companion diagnostic healthcare globally, while continuing to incentivise
Roche is also facilitating and improving laboratory test to identify those patients who could benefit the true medical innovation.
work in tissue sample staining, which is central most from Alecensa.
to the study and correct diagnosis of cancer. With At Roche, each and every one of our 91,747 employees For the current year, we expect sales to grow low-
its full automation and excellent staining quality, Lung cancer is just one example of a disease where is committed to medical innovation which truly to mid-single digit at constant exchange rates. Core
the newly launched Ventana HE 600 system enables a better understanding of the molecular processes in makes a difference to patients. As an innovation- earnings per share are targeted to grow ahead of
pathologists to work with even greater safety, cancer cells has shed light on many possible different driven company, our employees play a central role sales at constant exchange rates. We expect to further
accuracy and efficiency. causes. Analysis of this molecular information is in our success. Encouraging diversity is an essential increase our dividend in Swiss francs.
already yielding insights that are important both part of fostering new ways of thinking, challenging
We continued to make good progress with our for research and development purposes and for the the status quo and finding new solutions. I remain very confident about Roche's long-term
product pipeline, with five major approvals and four targeted treatment of patients. For Roche, innovation future. With science and medicine progressing at
FDA breakthrough therapy designations on our also means simplifying diagnostics for patients. By Our talent management strategy is focused on giving an unprecedented rate, and thanks to the new data
medicines in 2015. This is testament to the high level investing in research into blood-based cancer tests, our employees the opportunity to develop professionally analysis techniques available to us, we will continue
of innovation we are achieving in our research and also known as liquid biopsies, and developing the and personally by gaining experience in different roles to be in a strong position to develop new medicines
development activities, which, with Genentech, cobas EGFR Mutation Test v2, Roche is helping to and countries. As a global company, with increasing and diagnostic tests for better patient care.
Chugai and various external alliances, reflect a broad minimise the need for intensive and stressful surgical activities in emerging markets, diversity in people and
range of approaches and ideas. Take, for example, procedures to collect tumour tissue samples. experience is becoming increasingly valuable.
the early development phase results for emicizumab
(ACE910)—a medicine developed by Chugai for the Meaningful use of the large amounts of data from I would like to thank all our employees for their
prophylactic treatment of people 12 years or older test results and clinical practice is set to take on an personal contributions, and you, our shareholders,
with hemophilia A—which are sufficiently promising even more important role. This is why we are involved for your continued confidence in Roche.
for us to start a pivotal phase III programme. in pilot projects and partnerships such as those with Severin Schwan
Foundation Medicine and Flatiron Health, using Chief Executive Officer
high-quality healthcare data and advanced analytics
“Improving health outcomes requires all
to improve both the development of medicines and
the scientific basis for treatment decisions.
stakeholders—public and private—to
We will only be able to realise these plans if we
work closely together to achieve
continue developing our business sustainably. An
important part of our strategy is to improve patient
sustainable solutions.”
access to our innovative tests and medicines.
16 17Roche | Corporate Executive Committee Corporate Executive Committee | Roche
Corporate Executive
Committee
From left to right
Dr Michael D. Varney* (1958)
Head Genentech Research & Early Development (gRED)
Roland Diggelmann (1967)
COO Division Roche Diagnostics
Dr Stephan Feldhaus* (1962)
Head Group Communications
Silvia Ayyoubi (1953)
Head Group Human Resources
Dr Alan Hippe (1967)
Chief Financial and IT Officer
Dr Severin Schwan (1967)
CEO Roche Group
Dr Sophie Kornowski-Bonnet* (1963)
Head Roche Partnering
Prof. John C. Reed* (1958)
Head Roche Pharma Research & Early Development (pRED)
Osamu Nagayama* (1947)
Chairman and CEO Chugai
Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954)
General Counsel
Daniel O’Day (1964)
COO Division Roche Pharmaceuticals
Roche Corporate Executive Committee on 31 December 2015
* Member of the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
18 19Roche | Business review Business review | Roche
48.1
Bu sine s s re v ie w
Thanks to our strong business performance we are able to
further enhance our innovation capabilities and deliver CHF
healthcare solutions which make a difference in patients’ lives.
billion in Group sale s
20 21Roche | Business review Business review | Roche
Roche reports strong results in 2015
Strong sales and profit growth
Pharmaceuticals growth was driven by increasing demand in oncology and immunology.
In 2015, Group sales increased by 5%,* driven demand for the HER2 medicines along with the
primarily by pharmaceutical sales in the US and by strong uptake of Esbriet. Growth in the International
strong demand for immunodiagnostic products. region** (+5%) was driven by key markets including Profitability growth ahead of sales In Diagnostics, Roche further extended its industry-
Brazil (+10%) and China (+4%). In Japan, sales grew Excluding a one-time income of CHF 428 million leading product portfolio with seven test and eight
In the Pharmaceuticals Division, sales rose 5% to by 6%, driven by Avastin, the HER2 franchise and from the sale of filgrastim rights in 2014, core instrument launches.
CHF 37.3 billion. The increase was driven by the the new lung cancer medicine Alecensa. operating profit increased 7% at constant exchange
oncology portfolio (+8%), led by the HER2 medicines rates. On the same basis, core earnings per share Strategic partnerships to improve patient care
and Avastin. Sales of the immunology franchise grew In Diagnostics, sales grew 6% to CHF 10.8 billion, (CHF 13.49) were 7% higher. In January 2016, Roche announced a partnership
by 24%, driven by the strong uptake of Esbriet, a new with Asia–Pacific (+15%) and Europe, Middle East with Flatiron Health, an industry leader in real-
medicine for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, as well as and Africa (EMEA, +4%) as the main contributors. IFRS net income increased 4% at constant exchange world oncology data. Building on the collaboration
higher sales of Actemra/RoActemra and Xolair. Sales Sales were up in Latin America (+11%) and in North rates, but declined 5% in Swiss franc terms due to a with Foundation Medicine, begun in 2015, this
of Pegasys declined due to competition from a new America (+3%), whilst sales in Japan were stable. The major negative currency impact. agreement is another important milestone to drive
generation of treatments, whilst Valcyte/Cymevene major growth driver was Professional Diagnostics, our leadership in personalised healthcare. High-
and Xeloda faced generic competition as expected. which grew by 8%. Sales in Molecular Diagnostics The Board of Directors has recommended a dividend quality healthcare data and advanced analytics will
and Tissue Diagnostics increased 10% and 12% increase to CHF 8.10 per share and non-voting equity improve both the development of medicines and the
All regions contributed to the sales growth, with respectively. Diabetes Care sales decreased 3% due security. Subject to approval by the Annual General quality of treatment decisions. In 2015, Roche also
particularly strong performance in the US (+6%) to continuing challenging market conditions, Meeting of shareholders on 1 March 2016, this will be acquired Ariosa Diagnostics, Signature Diagnostics,
and in Europe (+4%), which was driven by strong especially in the US. Roche’s 29th consecutive annual dividend increase. CAPP Medical and Kapa Biosystems, companies
with strong expertise and technologies which will
Product approvals and portfolio progress complement Roche’s activities aimed at building
Key figures 2015 In 2015, we made significant progress with our a next-generation sequencing portfolio.
product pipeline. For our investigational medicine
CHF millions CHF millions % change % change
2015 2014 CER* CHF ocrelizumab, Roche announced strong data in both Outlook for 2016
Group sales 48,145 47,462 +5 +1 relapsing and primary progressive forms of multiple In 2016, Roche expects sales to grow low- to mid-single
Pharmaceuticals Division 37,331 36,696 +5 +2 sclerosis. In addition, we presented promising results digit at constant exchange rates. Core earnings per
Diagnostics Division 10,814 10,766 +6 0 for our lead investigational cancer immunotherapy share are targeted to grow ahead of sales at constant
Core operating profit 17,542 17,636 +5 –1 medicine atezolizumab in bladder and lung cancer. exchange rates. Roche expects to further increase its
excluding filgrastim*** +7 +2 Roche also received EU and US approval for Cotellic dividend in Swiss francs.
Core EPS – diluted (CHF) 13.49 14.29 +4 –6 plus Zelboraf to treat metastatic melanoma, and US
excluding filgrastim*** +7 –3 approval for the cancer medicine Alecensa for a
IFRS net income† 9,056 9,535 +4 –5 specific form of lung cancer.
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2014). | ** Asia-Pacific, EEMEA (Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa),
Latin America, Canada, Others. | *** Excluding the one-time benefit of CHF 428 million before tax related to the divestment of filgrastim rights in 2014. |
† IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards.
22 23Roche | Business review Business review | Roche
Embracing a dynamic market environment Adjuvant therapy with Herceptin helps to prevent breast with the ultimate goal of developing reliable tests
cancer patients from developing metastases based on these biomarkers. This is central to our
personalised healthcare strategy.
Focused on innovation Herceptin introduced
20,000 in adjuvant setting The game-changing arena of molecular information-
driven R&D is opening more doors in medical
15,000
innovation. Roche has recently entered into several
27,737
strategic partnerships focused on genome sequencing
10,000
No matter how the market evolves, we remain fully Bactrim, a medicine which is still used in treating and analysis, including Foundation Medicine,
committed to our central principles of putting the bacterial infections. This medicine has been 23andMe and Human Longevity. By harnessing
5,000
patient at the centre of everything we do, focusing administered to about two billion people worldwide 2000 2005 2010 2015 genome sequencing data, Roche is hoping to gain
on healthcare innovation, and working closely with and continues to have an important impact in Number of women prevented from developing metastases deeper insights into disease biology that will enable
external partners. developing regions. Incidence of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer without identification of new pathways, biomarkers and
Herceptin targets that can be used to improve drug discovery,
Our primary contribution to healthcare is developing Treated with modern state-of-the-art therapy, develop better treatments and improve patient care.
innovative medicines and tests that improve the HIV/AIDS is a chronic infection today, with a Almost 28,000 patients in five major EU countries were prevented
outlook for patients. In the next three years, we are mortality rate which has dropped by 85%.1 Roche from developing metastases because of the effect of adjuvant Partnering is a critical part of our R&D strategy.
planning launches for up to eight new medicines has played an important role in this by developing Herceptin (given after the main treatment, which is usually surgery). In the healthcare industry, the vast majority of
coming out of our labs aimed at surpassing standards innovative diagnostic tests, which has enabled innovation happens outside of any single company.
in care. personalised treatment strategies and breakthrough We are also proud to be making progress outside of Truly innovative research is most likely to flourish
medicines, like the first-ever protease inhibitor. cancer in other difficult-to-treat diseases, such as in companies with strong in-house capabilities and
As the market leader in immunodiagnostics, PCR multiple sclerosis (MS). There are currently limited a diverse and extensive network of partnerships.
and tissue diagnostics, and with increasing offerings As a leader in oncology, Roche has made important treatment options for this debilitating disease. In
in sequencing, we are also well-placed to deliver fully contributions to significantly lowering cancer mor- 2015, we announced strong late-stage clinical study Roche was one of the first healthcare companies to
integrated testing solutions. tality rates over the past 20 years. In the late 1990s, results which have the potential to significantly recognise the importance of external innovation and
Roche’s biopharmaceutical Herceptin represented a improve the way MS is treated. is currently running more than 200 partnerships
Our lasting commitment to improving lives major step forward in the treatment of a particularly across the Group.
We have consistently grown through research and aggressive form of breast cancer. In 18 years, Roche Molecular information enhancing R&D decisions
ground-breaking innovation. Over the past nearly has brought eleven cancer medicines with proven Over the past few years, Roche has optimised Roche’s R&D productivity from 2002–2014
120 years, we are proud to have contributed to some survival benefit to patients. the cooperation between its Pharmaceuticals and
12
major advances in healthcare. In 1969, we introduced Diagnostics Divisions. Translating scientific progress
10
However, the battle against cancer is not over. into new tests and targeted medicines has shown 8%
8
Treatment is especially difficult in the advanced impressive outcomes already, for example in our
29 Roche medicines are included on 6 5%
stages, when the cancer has metastasised. We remain studies testing investigational cancer medicines.
4
fully committed to continuing to raise the bar in
the WHO Essential Medicines List 2
cancer patient outcomes, and see great potential to Although the R&D processes are different, the two
0
do so with our cancer immunotherapy and divisions share research facilities, technologies and 02–06 03–07 04–08 05–09 06–10 07–11 08–12 09–13 10–14
in 2015.
combination treatments. discoveries when working together on internal projects. Roche Industry
In the early stages of drug discovery, biomarkers can Roche’s R&D success rate is 8% above the industry average of 5%.
provide critical information on disease development. Based on KMR R&D General Metrics Data 2014.
Diagnostics is involved early in the research projects
1 Boston Healthcare. The Value of Innovation in HIV/AIDS therapy, 2014.
24 25Roche | Business review Business review | Roche
Emerging markets will account for nearly
Expanding access in emerging markets in Johannesburg to provide hands-on, certified We are committed to working with our stakeholders
Inequalities in access to healthcare are increasing. training courses. The facility boasts five self-contained to find innovative pricing solutions, moving away from
50% of our growth in the coming years.
We have a tremendous opportunity and commitment laboratories with the latest technological tools in volume-based to value-based. Many pilot programmes
to overcome access barriers to our diagnostic tests chemistry, hematology, molecular biology, tissue have shown that these solutions can give payers and
and medicines around the world. diagnostics and sequencing. healthcare authorities more flexibility when it comes
to reimbursement decisions. Compliance is more than a requirement at Roche,
At Roche we strongly believe that it is critical to New patients receiving donated Herceptin in China it is the basis of our license to operate and key to
uncover the root causes, country by country, to be able through our PAP Increasing employee diversity implementing our mission to improving patients’ lives.
to implement solutions that will make a meaningful As we estimate that nearly 50% of our growth will
difference on the ground. We have also established a 14,981 come from emerging markets in the coming years, we Seizing the right opportunities
wide range of policies, programmes and partnerships want to make sure our people have the right experience. Risk-taking, especially in our business, is a prerequisite
adapted to the needs of different local situations. 11,446 We are committed to cultivating a more diverse talent to innovation, growth, improved business performance
pipeline to help our people and our company excel in and sustainable returns. The key is to effectively manage
7,558
In 2011, we established a patient assistance 6,094 this ever-changing business environment. risk to reduce negative uncertainties and to transform
programme (PAP) with the Cancer Foundation of challenges into business opportunities.
China and other patient groups which has led to a 125 Compliance is an integral part of our culture
significant increase in access to our breast cancer 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Whether it is in our approach to science, how we do We have a risk organisation in place which provides
medicine Herceptin. However, it is not always PAP implemented business, or as a partner in society, we are committed structure, support and guidance to proactively
about access to medicines but also about shortages to high ethical and social standards. Integrity is a assess risks and opportunities, so as not to be caught
of equipment and health education. To address the Number of patients on Herceptin significantly increased after fundamental part of how we do business at Roche. unaware or unprepared. An inventory of major Group-
lack of trained diagnostic workers and laboratory implementation of Roche’s PAP in China. wide risks is compiled and analysed on an annual
capacity in South Africa, we run a Scientific Campus With transparency in clinical trial information, basis. This analysis is published in the Group risk
Although access barriers to healthcare are complex governance of interactions with key stakeholder report and distributed for review to the Corporate
and multifaceted, pricing is one of the major areas groups, and regular audits of internal manufacturing Executive Committee and the Board of Directors to
40,204 patients now have access to
of focus for many stakeholders. In the majority processes and systems, we go beyond the legal and help shape strategic decisions.
of markets, the price of a medicine is unit-based, regulatory requirements.
Herceptin through Roche’s patient
undifferentiated and driven by the volume of
therapy used.
assistance programme in China.
26 27Roche | Diagnostics Diagnostics | Roche
15
D iag nostic s
We are the market leader in the in vitro diagnostics business
and provide the largest number of test results, empowering
physicians and patients to make informed health decisions.
billion te st s
conducted in 2015 with Roche instruments worldwide
28 29Roche | Diagnostics Diagnostics | Roche
O
ur tests provide critical information for faster and more
precise decision-making in medical care and research and
development.
Our commercially available in vitro diagnostic (IVD) Better prediction of therapy outcomes
tests are increasingly used by healthcare providers Advances in science are driving our rapidly growing
to screen, diagnose and monitor therapies. These tests understanding of disease biology and patient responses
are critical, even life-saving in emergency situations. to therapy. These new insights help to answer critical
Immunodiagnostic tests for example can help physi- clinical questions, guiding treatment decisions to
cians make on-the-spot treatment decisions, such as ensure effective and safe therapies. We are also
for a person who may or may not be having a stroke. getting better at collecting and analysing molecular
information thanks to new technologies, such as
In virology, there is increasing demand for our deep gene sequencing. Molecular information enables
cervical cancer screening and diagnostic tests. Our physicians to better predict the outcome of therapeutic
non-invasive Harmony prenatal test is critically interventions and optimise treatment strategies.
important for pregnant women, providing more
accurate information without any risk for the baby and Our understanding of lung cancer and its root drivers
the mother. Meanwhile, with the increasing number is a great example which demonstrates the benefit of
of people with diabetes, our blood glucose meters, molecular information. More than a dozen different
lancing devices and our insulin delivery systems are mutations can cause this disease, potentially requiring
important tools to manage this condition effectively. very different therapeutic interventions. What was
once described merely as a cancer of a specific organ
can now be described on a molecular level. By
Scientific information helps physicians
pinpointing the mutation causing the lung cancer,
physicians can make better treatment decisions, to
make better treatment decisions and this
ultimately improve outcomes for patients.
will ultimately result in better outcomes
for patients.
30 31Roche | Diagnostics Diagnostics | Roche
6
+ %
Diagnostics deliver strong growth
Meeting different market requirements increase in Diagnostics annual sales,
contributing to the overall performance
In Diagnostics, sales increased in 2015 by 6% to There was continued good growth in all regions, of the Roche Group.
CHF 10.8 billion, with Asia-Pacific (+15%) and Europe, especially in Asia-Pacific, with sustained strong
Middle East and Africa (EMEA, +4%) as main sales increases in China.
contributors of growth.* Sales in China were up by
22%. Latin America recorded sales growth of 11%, Sales increased 10% in Molecular Diagnostics, driven
and sales in North America increased 3%. In Japan, by growth in the underlying molecular business (+7%)
sales were stable. and the sequencing business. Major contributions to
sales growth came from virology (+14%) and HPV Tissue Diagnostics increased sales 12%, driven by Markets for diabetes business challenging
Growth in Professional Diagnostics (+8%) was driven screening (+27%). Sales grew strongly in EMEA; in 11% growth in the advanced staining portfolio, which In Diabetes Care, sales declined 3%, due to
by the immunodiagnostics (+13%), clinical chemistry Japan a decline of sales resulted from the non-renewal includes immunohistochemistry reagents (+10%). continuing challenging market conditions for the
(+3%) and coagulation monitoring (+6%) businesses. of a tender in blood screening. The largest growth contributions came from North blood glucose monitoring portfolio, especially in
America and EMEA. the US. Sales of the blood glucose meter Accu-Chek
Mobile grew by 8% while sales of Accu-Chek Performa
Several major tenders secured remained stable; Accu-Chek Aviva declined 2%. Sales
In the Netherlands, Roche was awarded a five-year of lancing devices increased 5%. This growth partially
Sales of top selling products in 2015 (CHF millions) contract by the National Institute for Public Health compensated the impact of the phasing out of older
and the Environment for the implementation of the products. The insulin delivery systems business grew
cobas HPV test as the first-line primary screening test by 8%, driven by infusion systems and the newly
in the national cervical cancer screening programme. launched Accu-Chek Insight, the next-generation
insulin delivery system combining our insulin pump
Additionally, we won major blood screening tender and a blood glucose meter.
contracts in Thailand, Germany, the United Kingdom
and Spain, as well as significant competitive tenders in Sales increased in the regions of Latin America and
virology in the United Kingdom, France and Germany. Asia-Pacific, but decreased in North America, EMEA
All of those tests will run on our next-generation and Japan. Overall, business efficiencies were gained
Accu-Chek Aviva cobas 6800 and cobas 8800 systems. with the implementation of specific measures initiated
cobas e 602 Connect cobas c 502 Ventana HE 600 cobas 8800 in 2013 to streamline processes and reduce costs.
Immunodiagnostics Diabetes Care Clinical chemistry Tissue diagnostics Virology
3,019 2,128 1,591 792 584
+13% -3% +3% +12% +14% * All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rate (average 2014).
32 33Roche | Diagnostics Diagnostics | Roche
Transforming laboratory practice
Automation and connectivity
Using high-quality hardware and IT interaction allow better quality control in sample preparation, and ultimately leads to more reliable results.
Medical health testing is going through a dramatic Doubling the already market-leading throughput
paradigm shift. On the one hand, new testing tech- of our current instrument from 200 to 400 results
nologies support large, centralised laboratories in per hour is a key feature of the cobas c 513. This new Fully automated, connected workflow conducted in 2015, more than 4,000 slides from
providing medically relevant results with a constant instrument is used in laboratories for the analysis The launch of the Elecsys HTLV-I/II immunoassay laboratories in 12 countries were stained on the
increase in efficiency. On the other hand, point-of- of HbA1c levels in blood samples from people with completes the blood screening portfolio in serology VENTANA HE 600 system and reviewed by
care testing is gaining importance in ensuring diabetes. The cobas c 513 is an essential tool for and provides the unique ability to combine pre- 67 pathologists, with excellent results.
immediate, precise decision-making on the spot. By healthcare providers coping with the ever-increasing analytics, nucleic acid testing and serology testing
offering increased testing capacity, the highest levels number of people with this condition. for automated blood screening. The cobas 6800 or With the rapid advance of science and the resulting
of automation, connected workflows as well as cobas 8800 systems can be connected in the workflow, need for molecular information, laboratories
laboratory information systems, our instruments Another key milestone in 2015, the FDA approved making this combination the first of its kind in the increasingly utilise a number of technologies in
launched in 2015 support our customers in the cobas 6800 and cobas 8800 systems and the cobas market. These products are well received in the markets. parallel, including immunodiagnostics, clinical
transforming their businesses.* HBV, cobas HCV and cobas HIV viral load tests. chemistry, tissue analysis, PCR-based technologies
The fully automated systems offer the fastest time to We also launched the VENTANA HE 600 system and gene sequencing. With our market-leading
For example, the cobas 8100 V2 automated workflow results, the highest throughput and the longest walk- globally. A fully automated hematoxylin and eosin portfolio in immunodiagnostics, PCR and tissue
series is a fully-automated system covering all away time available among automated molecular (H&E) tissue staining system, it enhances patient analysis, and the progress made in sequencing
operational pre-analytical and integrated post- platforms, providing laboratories both improved safety by avoiding cross-contamination, and produces over the last two years, we are at the forefront in
analytical steps in a laboratory, as well as sample operating efficiency and flexibility to adapt to exceptional staining quality. supporting laboratories in their businesses.
transport. This technology enables full connectivity changing testing needs.
with analytical and archiving devices. It is designed This system improves workflow by eliminating the
for high-throughput laboratories and has a capacity The new tests are the next generation of our viral load need to manually mix reagents. In a global test
of 1,100 samples per hour. tests, which clinicians use to manage the treatment of
people with hepatitis B or hepatitis C virus as well as
HIV. The US approval follows the 2014 launch of these
In diabetes, the new cobas c 513 doubles
systems and tests in countries accepting the CE mark.**
the throughput to 400 results per hour.
* www.roche.com/products | ** Conformité Européenne, a symbol of free marketability in the European Economic Area.
34 35Roche | Diagnostics Diagnostics | Roche
Modern, targeted therapies
Disease-causing mutations
Unknown EGFR
MET splice site ALK Fusions
MET Amplification HER2
KRAS BRAF
Broadening our portfolio NRAS PIK3CA
ROS1 Fusions AKT1
KIF5B-RET MAP2K1
Multiple tests on connected systems
2000 2015
With the many test approvals and launches this The Accu-Chek Connect, a fully integrated diagnostic Multiple genetic mutations may cause non-small cell lung cancer. In the past, these variations could not be distinguished. Today, molecular information supports
year, we broadened our industry-leading product system with an app, an online portal and an FDA- treatment decisions for effective, targeted therapies.
portfolio. The new Elecsys HTLV-I/II immunoassay approved bolus calculator to improve diabetes self-
is a diagnostic test to help detect antibodies against management, was launched in the US.
human T-lymphotropic virus I or II infections in
donated blood and routine diagnostic samples. The FDA has granted a Clinical Laboratory
Improvement Amendments (CLIA) waiver for the which assists clinicians in making timely treatment In September 2015, we launched the cobas EGFR
Designed for the needs of blood centres and clinical cobas Strep A test for use on the cobas Liat system. decisions and aids in the prevention of further Mutation Test v2, our first oncology test that utilises
laboratories for reliable and efficient detection of Streptococcus A is responsible for a wide range of infection in healthcare settings. either plasma or tumour tissue as a sample. The test
this microorganism, the test enhances our blood both invasive and non-invasive infections. It is the identifies 42 mutations in the epidermal growth
screening portfolio in serology testing. This builds on first CLIA-waived PCR test to detect Strep A in The cobas HSV (Herpes Simplex Virus) 1 and 2 factor receptor (EGFR) gene, the most of any in vitro
our current offering, which is the most comprehensive throat swab specimens. test for the direct detection and differentiation of diagnostic on the market. This test can also be used
in blood screening. HSV-1 and HSV-2 DNA in symptomatic patients as an aid in selecting eligible patients with non-small
The cobas Influenza A/B test for use on the cobas Liat received FDA 510(k) clearance. With dual-target cell lung cancer (NSCLC) for therapy with an EGFR
The improved cardiac point-of-care Troponin T test system also received a CLIA waiver. These easy-to-use detection and automation, this test provides tyrosine kinase inhibitor.
for the cobas h 232 system, available for countries tests can now be used in non-traditional testing sites laboratories with the capability to report up to
accepting the CE mark, allows healthcare professionals such as physician offices, emergency rooms and other 94 results in significantly less time than traditional As more targeted therapies become available, it is
to rapidly identify patients with a suspected acute healthcare facilities, and provide results at the point methods, and provides a simplified workflow for critical that we provide oncologists with innovative
myocardial infarction, also termed heart attack, with of care. sample handling in the laboratory. molecular testing methods that make it easier for
greater accuracy at low troponin concentration. This patients to get tested, without being subject to surgery
hand-held, point-of-care diagnostic system can be The cobas HIV-1, HBV, HCV and HCV Genotyping risks or tumour tissue availability.1
used in places where heart attack patients are often assays were launched in countries accepting the
seen first, such as in an ambulance, emergency room, CE mark. These new molecular diagnostic assays
or a primary care/general practitioner’s office. increase the available menu on the cobas 4800 system,
further improving the efficiency and flexibility that
allow laboratories to deliver results for rapid
Our new cancer test allows for the
clinical decisions.
detection of cancer in the blood of
The FDA has provided clearance for the cobas Cdiff
test to detect Clostridium difficile (C. difficile) in stool
patients who are too sick for invasive
specimens. The test provides accurate information
tissue biopsy.
1 Davenport L., EGFR Testing Not Done in 25% of Lung Cancer Patients, Medscape Medical News, 2015.
36 37Roche | Diagnostics Diagnostics | Roche
Personal perspective
“With our liquid
“As a scientist, I can honestly say this is
my dream job.”
biopsy test, we have
In addition to complementing tissue biopsy in
the ability to detect traces detecting cancer, liquid biopsy has enormous
broader diagnostic potential. My colleague, Lin Wu,
hypothesised that we could use this technology to
monitor patient response to treatment and the
of cancer without surgery.” development of drug resistance.
When clinical results confirmed our hypothesis, it
was a thrill for the whole team. We have the potential
to personalise cancer therapy, just as we already do
Walter Koch, PhD, Head of Research
for HIV or hepatitis patients. There are many such
occasions when the calibre of the scientific research
at Roche Molecular Diagnostics
conducted by my colleagues makes me proud.
Building on our cobas EGFR Mutation Test v2, we
A new era in cancer are expanding our application of this technology to
with 75–80% accuracy if EGFR activating or colorectal, breast and other types of cancer.
resistance mutations are present in non-small cell
diagnostics
lung cancer patients. We are also exploring liquid biopsies for actionable
gene fusions and smaller genetic sequences such
This liquid biopsy test runs on the cobas 4800 as micro-ribonucleic acids—opening exciting new
I have been interested in cancer since I started diagnostic platform found in many community horizons in terms of how we detect, treat and
working as a lab technician at age 19. Today, I am hospitals, which means faster results. It also means monitor cancer.
Head of Research at Roche Molecular Diagnostics, greater access to targeted therapies for patients,
comprising about 120 talented people. As a scientist, who often are not tested for EGFR mutations, even
I can honestly say this is my dream job. Although I in developed countries, due to lack of tissue to test.
no longer have the opportunity to work in the lab, Once they test positive with a liquid biopsy, patients
I am part of a team that is pushing new frontiers in can start targeted therapy, such as Roche’s Tarceva. In
science. We take those insights and translate them fact, it was the Tarceva team that first suggested and
into diagnostics that will help to better detect cancer supported development of a liquid biopsy test. This
and other serious diseases. illustrates the synergies of having Pharmaceuticals
and Diagnostics under one roof at Roche.
A good example is our cobas EGFR Mutation Test v2,
which detects the DNA of non-small cell lung cancer Liquid biopsy technology offers many benefits to
in plasma—the yellowish liquid that remains when patients. Current practices for detecting cancer are
blood cells are removed from blood. In only eight based on microscopic examination of tumour tissue
hours, with as little as 2.5 ml of plasma, we can detect acquired by surgery or invasive biopsy. Some patients “For me, there is a sense of excitement in learning something new
are simply too sick to undergo these procedures. every day and sharing in the success of this team.”
38 39Roche | Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals | Roche
25
Phar mace utical s
Roche provides medicines that truly improve patients’ lives. With
the recently approved combination therapy Cotellic plus Zelboraf
in advanced melanoma, Roche brings another option to patients
with a life-threatening and hard-to-treat disease.
million patie nt s
treated with one of Roche’s top 25 selling medicines
40 41Roche | Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals | Roche
W
e focus on disease areas with high unmet medical need,
where we have the expertise to make a real difference
for patients.
As the world leader in oncology, our medicines have non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Data that
helped to revolutionise the treatment of many types of we presented at the American Society of Clinical
cancer. Take Avastin for example. Designed to target Oncology demonstrated the importance of
angiogenesis—a process by which new blood vessels understanding immune biology in cancer treatment.
are formed that help the tumour grow—Avastin has We also presented new pivotal data on Gazyva/
become a pillar in cancer treatment. Today, Avastin is Gazyvaro, which showed that this medicine could
approved to treat seven different types of cancer. further improve outcomes for patients with difficult-
to-treat indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma (iNHL).
Our medicines targeting HER2-positive breast
cancer, Herceptin, Perjeta and Kadcyla, allow people We received marketing approvals on new targeted
with advanced disease to live longer and those with therapies including Cotellic, in combination with
early-stage cancer, the chance of sustained remission. Zelboraf for advanced melanoma, and Alecensa for
MabThera/Rituxan, the first monoclonal antibody, a specific type of lung cancer. We believe the future
remains the most widely used medicine to treat the of cancer treatment lies in combination therapies,
most common forms of blood cancer. Avastin, targeted treatments and cancer immunotherapy.
Herceptin and MabThera/Rituxan have played a role
in the treatment of more than seven million patients. Beyond oncology
Esbriet, our new medicine to treat idiopathic
In 2015, we gained important insights into the next pulmonary fibrosis, a fatal lung disease, is already
wave of cancer therapy with recognition of our making a big difference to patients in its first year on
pipeline innovation, exciting data and key approvals. the market. We also presented data which suggested
The FDA granted a second breakthrough therapy that continuing treatment with Esbriet after early
designation for our lead cancer immunotherapy hospitalisation may help slow disease progression.
candidate atezolizumab, this time in PD-L1 positive
We also announced important new data for the
treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS). Three positive
Jeffrey Schwartz, pictured right,
late-stage clinical studies of our investigational MS
medicine ocrelizumab confirmed our hypothesis that
participated in one of our cancer
B cells are central to the pathogenesis of the disease.
We will submit these data to regulatory authorities
immunotherapy clinical trials.
for marketing approval in 2016.
42 43Roche | Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals | Roche
5
+ %
Pharmaceuticals deliver strong growth
Driven by oncology and immunology increase in Pharmaceuticals annual sales,
driving the Roche Group’s overall
Pharmaceuticals sales increased by 5%* in 2015 to in Japan. Kadcyla (+51%) sales were driven primarily
performance in 2015.
CHF 37.3 billion. Key drivers included Herceptin, by demand in Europe.
Perjeta and Kadcyla (combined +19%) for HER2-
positive breast cancer and HER2-positive metastatic MabThera/Rituxan (+5%), for common forms of blood
gastric cancer (Herceptin only). Herceptin (+10%) sales cancers, including NHL, follicular lymphoma and
grew strongly, especially in the US (+15%), with longer chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and for rheumatoid
duration of treatment in combination with Perjeta for arthritis and certain types of vasculitis, performed well. Avastin (+9%), for advanced colorectal, breast, lung, Actemra/RoActemra (+23%), for rheumatoid
both early and advanced breast cancer. Strong demand Sales growth was driven primarily by strong demand kidney, cervical and ovarian cancer and glioblastoma arthritis, systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis and
was seen in the International** region (+16%), notably in the US (+7%), as demand continued to increase in (a type of brain tumour), posted strong sales growth. polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis, recorded
in China and Brazil. Perjeta (+61%) also saw strong oncology and immunology. Sales increased 4% in the Increased sales were seen across all regions due to strong growth. Sales increased across all regions, driven
growth, particularly in the US and Europe, where it International region, led by increasing demand in rising demand in ovarian, colorectal, lung and cervical by strong demand for the subcutaneous formulation,
was approved for use before surgery in early-stage Brazil and China, and 11% in Japan. cancer, following launches in Europe and emerging particularly in the US (+29%) and Europe (+22%). In
aggressive breast cancer. There was also good growth markets. Strong growth was seen in the US (+8%) June 2015, the FDA granted breakthrough therapy
and the International region (+15%), particularly in designation for Actemra in systemic sclerosis.
China, where uptake for colorectal cancer and the
Key growth-driving products in 2015 (CHF millions) new lung cancer indication fuelled growth. In Japan Esbriet (CHF 563 million), for idiopathic pulmonary
(+14%), growth was driven by demand in breast and fibrosis (IPF), a fatal lung disease, had continued
lung cancer. strong uptake. Approved by the FDA and Swissmedic
in 2014, sales reached CHF 386 million in the US,
Lucentis (–15%, US only), for eye conditions wet age- CHF 152 million in Europe and CHF 25 million in the
related macular degeneration (wAMD), macular edema International region. In September 2015, additional
following retinal vein occlusion (RVO) and diabetic data were presented from a pooled analysis of three
macular edema (DME), was impacted by competitive phase III studies that suggested a reduction in
pressure in the wAMD and DME segments. In treatment-emergent risk of death for IPF patients
February 2015, the FDA approved Lucentis for an taking Esbriet for up to two years.1
additional indication, diabetic retinopathy in people
Avastin Herceptin Perjeta Kadcyla Esbriet with DME.
Oncology Oncology Oncology Oncology Immunology
6,684 6,538 1,445 769 563
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (average 2014). | ** Asia-Pacific, EEMEA (Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa),
Latin America, Canada, Others. | 1 Nathan SJ., et al. Effect of Pirfenidone on Treatment-emergent (TE) All-cause Mortality (ACM) in Patients
+9% +10% +61% +51% >+500% with Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF): Pooled Data Analysis from ASCEND and CAPACITY, 2015.
44 45Roche | Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals | Roche
Significant breakthroughs in 2015
Advancing patient care
In 2015, the FDA granted four breakthrough therapy The FDA also granted priority review for venetoclax, Major regulatory milestones
designations on our medicines. This designation an investigational medicine being developed in
helps to accelerate the development and review of partnership with AbbVie, for patients with a hard- Product or project Description
medicines intended to treat serious diseases that may to-treat type of chronic leukemia. This was followed FDA breakthrough Atezolizumab PD-L1 positive NSCLC
demonstrate substantial improvement over existing by a second breakthrough therapy designation for therapy designation Emicizumab (ACE910) Hemophilia A with factor VIII inhibitors
therapies. In total, we have received this designation venetoclax, in combination with MabThera/Rituxan Actemra/RoActemra Systemic sclerosis
11 times, which is a testament to our commitment for relapsed or refractory CLL; and a third in AML.* Venetoclax 17p deletion relapsed-refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia
to innovation. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML)*
Targeted cancer therapy approvals + MabThera/Rituxan Relapsed or refractory CLL*
As part of the breakthrough therapy designation, we In 2015, the FDA and the European Commission Filing Avastin + Tarceva EGFR mutation-positive NSCLC in the EU
submitted data to the FDA on our lead investigational approved Cotellic in combination with Zelboraf Avastin Advanced cervical cancer in Japan
cancer immunotherapy medicine atezolizumab for the for the treatment of people with BRAF mutation- Gazyva/Gazyvaro Rituximab-refractory indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma in the US and the EU
treatment of people with metastatic bladder cancer. positive metastatic melanoma. Updated pivotal data Approval Alecensa Second-line ALK-positive NSCLC in the US
We also plan to submit data to the FDA, under showed that the combination helped people to live Avastin Advanced cervical cancer in the EU
breakthrough therapy designation, for atezolizumab significantly longer, with a median of two years, Lucentis Diabetic retinopathy with diabetic macular edema in the US
for the treatment of people whose NSCLC expresses compared to Zelboraf alone. Perjeta Early HER2-positive breast cancer, neoadjuvant (pre-surgical) treatment in the EU
PD-L1 and whose disease worsened during or after Cotellic + Zelboraf BRAF-positive metastatic melanoma in the US and the EU
standard treatments. We have either submitted or plan The FDA also approved Alecensa for people with
to submit data for both cancer types to global health advanced ALK-positive NSCLC whose disease had
authorities in 2016. We also presented promising data progressed following treatment with crizotinib. This
on atezolizumab in specific types of advanced breast is the second approval for this medicine, which was
In the last three years, the FDA has granted
cancer and melanoma at medical conferences in 2015. created by Chugai, a member of the Roche Group, and
approved in Japan in 2014. We have also submitted a
breakthrough therapy designation on
At the American Society of Hematology, we presented marketing authorisation application to the EMA.
follow-up results from our pivotal study in people
11 indications of Roche medicines.
with iNHL who relapsed during or within six months Both of these targeted therapies are approved with
after treatment with a MabThera/Rituxan-based companion diagnostics, building on our leadership in
regimen. In a subgroup analysis of people with personalised healthcare. Not all patients respond to a
follicular lymphoma, the most common type of iNHL, medicine in the same way, and by using a diagnostic
treatment with Gazyva/Gazyvaro plus bendamustine, test, it is possible to better understand the disease and
provided significantly greater depth of remission at how well a patient may respond to treatment. Sales of
end of induction compared to bendamustine alone. products with a companion test on label now represent * The FDA granted breakthrough therapy designation to venetoclax in combination with MabThera/Rituxan for the treatment of people with relapsed
Pivotal study data were submitted for approval. 26% of Pharmaceuticals Division sales. or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) on 20 January 2016 and to venetoclax in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) on 26 January 2016.
46 47Roche | Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals | Roche
Approximately 1 in 710 people in Approximately 1 in 925 people in
North America have MS Europe have MS
Promising results in multiple sclerosis
A potential new treatment option
A disease of the central nervous system, multiple Confirming the central role of B cells
sclerosis (MS) is a chronic disease in which the For more than a decade, our scientists have pioneered
immune system abnormally attacks the insulation the concept that selectively targeting a component of
MS prevalence is highest in countries furthest Approximately 1 in 1,050 people
and support around the nerve cells in the brain, the immune system, the CD20-positive B cell, may be
spinal cord and optic nerves, causing inflammation an effective therapeutic approach for people with MS. from the equator in Australia have MS
and damage. Most people are diagnosed with this
disease in the prime of their lives, between 20 and Whilst this concept was not widely accepted in
40 years of age.2 MS affects approximately 2.3 million the medical community, our scientists conducted Mapping the incidence of MS around the world 2, 4
people worldwide.3 in-depth research and followed up development
programmes with a long-term view and commitment.
Patients with relapsing disease, the most common With the development of ocrelizumab, a humanised
form, have attacks or periods of time when symptoms monoclonal antibody targeted specifically against
flare. Those with the primary progressive form, which CD20-expressing B cells, the hypothesis that B cells the progression of clinical disability compared with medicines. Based on this broad expertise, we
affect about 10% of MS patients, suffer from a disability are central to the pathogenesis of relapsing MS has placebo. The safety profile was similar to placebo. are developing a number of innovative medicines
which continuously worsens after the onset of the been confirmed. in neuroscience.
disease, but typically without distinct relapses or Ocrelizumab is the first investigational medicine to
periods of remission. Compelling study results show positive study results in both primary progressive With one of the strongest pipelines in the industry,
Data from two phase III studies, OPERA I and and relapsing forms of MS, which affects approximately we are developing medicines for a range of serious
There is no cure for MS, but various treatment OPERA II, demonstrated clinically meaningful 95% of people with MS at the time of diagnosis. We neurological diseases beyond MS, including
approaches are with varying degrees of benefit to benefit of ocrelizumab in people with relapsing MS. will submit the ocrelizumab data to global regulatory Alzheimer’s disease, autism, spinal muscular atrophy,
patients. In 2015, we presented the results from three In both pivotal studies, ocrelizumab was compared authorities for both forms of MS in early 2016. depression, Parkinson’s disease and Down syndrome
phase III clinical studies on our investigational to an approved standard-of-care β-1a* interferon, (see page 65 for more details).
medicine ocrelizumab in MS which provide hope which showed that treatment with ocrelizumab led These results build on our deep understanding of
for a new paradigm in treatment. to significant reductions in the frequency of MS immunology and in developing novel antibody-based
relapses, in the progression of clinical disability (loss
of physical abilities) and in the number of lesions in
MS is a leading cause of non-traumatic
the brain. The safety profile was similar to the
standard of care.
disability in young people, usually
Another phase III study, ORATORIO, assessed * Rebif, a registered trademark of Merck KGaA and EMD Serono, Inc. | 2 Multiple Sclerosis International Federation, Atlas of MS, 2013. |
striking between 20 and 40 years of age.
ocrelizumab in primary progressive MS, a debilitating 3 National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, Multiple Sclerosis: Hope Through Research, 2015. | 4 Simpson S., et al. Latitude is
form of the disease, and demonstrated a reduction in significantly associated with the prevalence of multiple sclerosis: a meta-analysis. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry, 2011.
48 49Roche | Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals | Roche
Personal perspective
“We were
“It was teamwork and perseverance
that enabled us to succeed.”
convinced it was
Whilst most of my team moved ahead on
the right thing to do ocrelizumab, I formed a tight-knit subteam to develop
the comparator placebo. We first broke down the active
comparator into its component parts to design the
comparator placebo. Then we leveraged our external
for MS patients.” manufacturing network to produce the placebo syringes,
which had to meet the same strict requirements for
human injection as our drug.
We faced many obstacles and the merciless ticking
Rita Wong, Head of US Global Biologics,
of the clock. It was teamwork and perseverance that
enabled us to succeed in producing the comparator
Manufacturing Science and Technology Drug Product
placebo on time. We were convinced it was the right
thing to do for MS patients. We set a high bar test for
ocrelizumab that allowed us to produce compelling
Double-blind by comparative clinical data in the context of a well-
Roche clinicians wanted to increase the scientific characterised active comparator.
rigour of the phase III trials by comparing
design
ocrelizumab with a standard-of-care medicine In 2014, I took on my current position, but kept an
approved for the treatment of MS. Both arms were eye on the clinical trials. In October 2015, positive
‘double-blinded,’ meaning that neither patients phase III results on ocrelizumab in MS were released.
I am an intensely curious person, and “why?” is one nor clinicians knew whether they received placebo All the hard work was worth it.
of my favourite words. So, it was natural for me to or the investigational medicine.
become a scientist. That inquisitiveness helped me
for almost a decade of working on ocrelizumab, an My Technical Development Team supplied the
investigational medicine being studied in patients materials for these clinical trials. For the first study
with multiple sclerosis (MS)—a disease that strikes arm, we scaled up production of ocrelizumab, and
young adults in the prime of their lives. produced a placebo formulation identical in appearance
for administration, by intravenous infusion.
I joined Genentech in 1987 right out of college and
was hired into the formulation development group. For the second arm, we purchased a drug that was a
Simply stated, we ensure the active ingredient in our standard-of-care medicine approved for the treatment
medicines remains stable and usable. I began working of MS. But how could we develop a placebo that looked
on the ocrelizumab formulation in 2006. Four years like the marketed comparator drug, which came in a
later, I was appointed Technical Development Leader syringe, multiple doses, and different presentations?
just prior to the phase III trials in MS. This had never been done before at Roche. And we “The clinical trial design allowed us to show clear benefits to
only had six months before the start of the MS trials. MS patients.”
50 51Roche | Innovation Innovation | Roche
70
Innovation
With our broad portfolio of new molecules that address high
unmet medical needs, we are at the forefront of transforming
science into new therapies.
new molecular entities
in clinical development
52 53Roche | Innovation Innovation | Roche
A
lmost a decade ago, we transformed our R&D activities by
interconnecting our pharmaceuticals and diagnostics research
and increasing our investment in external innovation.
This approach has fostered the scientific diversity Positioned to develop next-generation tests
and creativity needed to develop the powerful tests and medicines
and medicines we are delivering today. In an industry Our research and early development is carried out
where tomorrow means years, the value of our early by four organisations: Genentech Research and Early
entry into personalised healthcare is seen in our Development (gRED), Roche Pharma Research and
broad and deep pipeline which includes a growing Early Development (pRED), Chugai Pharmaceutical
number of targeted drug candidates and companion Co., Ltd., Japan, a member of the Roche Group, and
diagnostics. Today, we are seeing that new treatment our Diagnostics Division. We also have win-win
approaches, such as combining therapies to attack an partnerships and alliances with more than 200 external
illness from different angles, hold great promise to companies and institutes.
turn cancer and other complex diseases into chronic
conditions that people can live with. Triggered by the explosion of scientific insights as
well as molecular and genetic data, experts from
At the forefront of the current biological revolution, additional disciplines are collaborating closely
our researchers are thinking about diseases and the today at Roche to master challenges that complex
immune system at the most fundamental molecular diseases pose to development teams. Compounds
and cellular level. We are looking to harness the successfully developed by gRED, pRED, Chugai and
vast increase in molecular information as the next our partners progress into our global late-stage
important step in our efforts to develop even better, development organisation.
more personalised treatment solutions.
Core R&D investments in 2015
Roche Group Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics
9.3 8.1 1.2
CHF bn CHF bn CHF bn
+5%* 19.4% of sales +4%* 21.8% of sales +18%* 11.1% of sales
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (average 2014).
54 55Roche | Innovation Innovation | Roche
Transforming care with new treatments A new era in tackling cancer cancer-immunity cycle. We have learned that tumours
For more than 50 years, we have been developing can disrupt the cycle by disabling, hiding from and
medicines that have improved and even redefined co-opting the immune response at several points
Science for better patient care oncology treatment. We believe advances in cancer along the way. The goal of cancer immunotherapy
therapy will progress dramatically through the research is to identify, understand and counteract a
emerging field of cancer immunotherapy. Based tumour’s ability to suppress the immune response.
on understanding the biology of cancer and the
immune system at their molecular levels, cancer Our scientists are focused on inhibiting the diverse
We now know that the same diagnosis in two people therapies in the last two decades. Most recently, we immunotherapy aims to provide each patient with mechanisms a tumour can use to sabotage the
may stem from completely different genetic causes have been investing heavily in the emerging field of tailored treatment that powers her or his own immune system, and also on stimulating the immune
and, more meaningfully, that most diseases, in fact, cancer immunotherapy, where we have made inroads immune system to fight their particular cancer. response against cancer. Our R&D programme
are not a single disease. World-class scientists across in understanding the multifaceted biology of the includes more than 20 cancer immunotherapy
the Roche Group are uncovering intricate details immune response to an individual’s cancer. In view Today, we are investing more than ever to bring candidates that target one or more steps in the cancer-
about disease biology and the root molecular causes of the biological diversity and adaptability of cancers, personalised cancer immunotherapy to physicians, immunity cycle. For example, overexpression of the
of cancer, inflammation, neurological disorders, we believe combination therapy, designed according so they have a growing toolkit of targeted medicines protein programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) by cancer
rheumatoid arthritis and other complex diseases. At to the specificity of the disease presentation, will play against cancers along with diagnostic tests that and immune cells can block the last stages in the
the same time, they are diving deeper into human an important role in battling cancer. accurately predict who is most likely to respond. cancer-immunity cycle. Inhibiting PD-L1 with
biology to unlock the mysteries of the immune atezolizumab thwarts this disruption and allows
system—how it fights, surrenders, is overwhelmed, The game-changing arena of molecular information- Harnessing the immune system to fight cancer the immune cells to attack the tumour.
or interacts with the enemy on a cellular battlefield. driven R&D requires us to update every area of Cancer cells use cellular camouflage to avoid being
product development: from basic research, target attacked by our immune system. For a long time, it New drug candidates offer promise
These diverse insights are driving ground-breaking identification and molecule design to clinical research, was unclear why cancer cells were going undetected, Atezolizumab is an investigational antibody designed
discoveries that are transforming how medicine is identification of relevant biomarkers and development but scientists, including experts across the Roche to fight tumours by blocking the PD-L1 protein.
and will be practiced. For instance, after pioneering of companion tests. In addition, we are recasting Group, are unravelling the mystery of how cancer PD-L1 is produced on the surface of both tumour
the concept, we have confirmed our hypothesis that the long-standing model for clinical studies to bring evades the immune system as it starts, grows and and immune cells and is believed to act as a stop sign
B cells are central to the pathogenesis of multiple effective treatments to patients faster. We are also spreads. We are using that knowledge to develop that blocks immune cells from recognising, attacking
sclerosis. In 2015, we announced exciting results in learning how to standardise, validate, cull and best medicines that harness the body’s immune system and destroying cancer cells. More than a dozen
late-stage clinical studies and are submitting these use the astounding volume of scientific and real-world to fight cancer. different tumour types have hijacked this PD-L1 to
data to the regulatory authorities for approval. data being generated every day, which is increasingly PD-1 interaction. Atezolizumab removes this cellular
critical in decisions made by Roche, regulators, payers Data from a number of Roche clinical studies camouflage in such tumours, allowing the immune
We are proud of our legacy of paradigm-shifting and ultimately, providers and patients. presented in the last 18 months reveal that cancer cells to attack cancer.
innovations, including treatments for diseases of the immunotherapies show extraordinary promise where
central nervous system in the 1960s, powerful anti- Whilst our main focus is on oncology, inflammation/ other treatments have previously failed. When treated In bladder cancer, the phase II IMvigor 210 study
infectives in the 1970s and 1980s, as well as cancer immunology, neuroscience, infectious diseases and with the most advanced cancer immunotherapies, showed that atezolizumab shrank tumours in 27%
ophthalmology, we are open to other areas where some patients with terminal cancers have lived for of people with metastatic urothelial carcinoma (mUC)
we can make a real difference for patients. We have extensively longer periods of time compared to benefit whose disease had medium and high levels of PD-L1
We are diving deeper into human biology
helped to make progress in the treatment of many from classical treatment. expression and worsened after initial treatment.
diseases that only a few years ago had few or no viable When the results were assessed, 92% of people who
to understand the immune system and
treatment options. However, tremendous unmet Targeting the cancer-immunity cycle responded to atezolizumab continued to respond.
medical need remains. Our immune system protects our body from cancer
engage it against cancer.
through what we now understand is a multi-step
56 57Roche | Innovation Innovation | Roche
1. Release of cancer cell antigens
2. Cancer antigen presentation
7. Killing cancer cells
3. Priming and activation
Cancer-
Two phase II studies evaluated atezolizumab in people We believe that having diagnostic information is immunity
with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). important so that physicians and patients have the
cycle
The randomised phase II study POPLAR showed opportunity to incorporate all available information
that people with recurrent NSCLC whose tumours into their treatment decisions. Differentiating which
expressed medium and high levels of PD-L1 survived patients are likely to benefit from monotherapy
a statistically significant 7.7 months longer than from those who perhaps should be considered for 4. Migration of T cells to tumours
people who received docetaxel chemotherapy. alternative treatment strategies—for example, a 6. Recognition of cancer cells
cancer immunotherapy combination clinical trial—
A separate, pivotal single-arm phase II study, BIRCH, is an important consideration when making a
showed that this drug candidate shrank tumours in treatment decision.
up to 27% of people whose disease had progressed
5. Infiltration of T cells into tumours
on prior medicines and also expressed the highest Other ways to target the cancer-immunity cycle
levels of PD-L1. It is thought that more than 70% of all tumours are
able to evade recognition by the immune system.1 To
In all of the above atezolizumab studies, median counter a tumour’s ability to hide from the immune The cancer-immunity cycle
survival had not yet been reached and adverse system, we are developing specific diagnostics to Illustration of how the immune system recognises and kills a cancer cell. In any one patient, the cycle can fail at any one of a number of points.
events were consistent with those observed in understand the type of tumour and how best to deliver Adapted from Chen & Mellman.1
previous studies. the most appropriate treatment strategy along each
of the various steps of the cancer-immunity cycle.
In the US, the FDA granted breakthrough therapy Our scientists are also looking for differences in the
designation for atezolizumab for the treatment of expression patterns of immuno-regulatory molecules
mUC and NSCLC in 2014 and 2015, respectively. in people who respond to treatment versus those The ultimate goal is to bring the benefits and promise production of immunosuppressive metabolites, IDO-1
who do not. The aim is to identify which patients of cancer immunotherapy to those people with the blocks the proliferation of T effector cells whilst it
Companion diagnostics to guide therapy decisions may benefit from a specific combination therapy greatest need for new treatment options. Across the promotes the generation of T regulatory cells, which
In keeping with our personalised healthcare strategy, over a monotherapy and to identify new targets for Roche Group, our scientists have identified a broad counteract the fighting activity of T effector cells.
all atezolizumab studies include the evaluation of an drug discovery. pipeline of compounds that target different cancer-
investigational immunohistochemistry test developed immunity checkpoints along the cycle. Furthermore, IDO-1 expressing APCs become pro-
in-house that uses a specific antibody to measure Our research indicates that patients whose tumours tolerogenic and unable to prime an effective immune
PD-L1 expression on both tumour cells and are inflamed and show an active invasion of immune Among the strategies employed by tumours to block response through the presentation of cancer proteins
infiltrating immune cells. cells have a higher response rate to atezolizumab than T cell activity is IDO-1 protein induction. IDO-1 (antigens) in the lymph nodes and in the tumour
patients with non-inflamed tumours that lack such expression is unregulated in tumour cells and/or microenvironment. As a result, IDO-1 expression
invasion. antigen-presenting cells (APCs). Through the in situ helps the tumour evade the immune system and
There are 11 ongoing or planned
depletion of extracellular tryptophan and the blocks an effective anti-tumour immune response.
We are working to find new ways to further deepen
phase III studies with atezolizumab
treatment responses to atezolizumab in inflamed
tumours, and to turn non-inflamed tumours into
across several kinds of lung, kidney,
inflamed tumours through combination therapies
with atezolizumab that potentially trigger a response.
breast and bladder cancer.
1 Chen DS. and Mellman I., Oncology Meets Immunology: The Cancer-Immunity Cycle, Immunity, 2013.
58 59Roche | Innovation Innovation | Roche
Atezolizumab: The foundation of our cancer immunotherapy portfolio
Multiple combinations Multiple combinations
Activating additional antagonists which signals immune cells to divide and proceed to
We are performing both in-house and partnered attack. IL-2v is designed to favour immune-stimulatory
research to develop compounds that target both over immune-suppressive cells, creating a tumour-
IDO-1 and TDO (tryptophan-2,3-dioxygenase), hostile milieu. Due to specific targeting, the antibody Chemotherapy
another protein like IDO-1 involved in tryptophan is expected to act more strongly in a tumour than in
degradation. A first-in-class dual IDO/TDO inhibitor host organs, leading to reduced cytokine-mediated
is being developed with Curadev Pharma Private toxicities seen with current IL-2 therapies.
Limited. We also have a research agreement with Launched portfolio Immunotherapy portfolio
NewLink Genetics Corporation for the discovery Supporting the immune system Alecensa Avastin Cotellic Gazyva/Gazyvaro aCD40 aCD20/CD3 TDB aCEA-IL2v
of next-generation IDO/TDO compounds. The small In order to help the immune system identify and Herceptin Kadcyla MabThera/Rituxan aOX40 aCSF-1R huMAb aFAP-IL2v FP
molecule IDO-1-inhibitor RG6078/GDC-0919, an engage tumour cells, we have designed a unique Perjeta Tarceva Zelboraf Atezolizumab CEA-TCB iDOi
indolamine-2, 3-dioxygenase (IDO-1) checkpoint form of an engineered T cell bispecific antibody 9 molecules in clinic > 20 projects in pipeline > 40 clinical trials
inhibitor is being developed in collaboration with which can redirect T cells against tumour cells in a
NewLink Genetics. It is currently in clinical very specific manner. The T cell bispecific antibody
development. Another IDO inhibitor, INCB024360, binds simultaneously to a target on tumour cells
is being developed in collaboration with Incyte. (including CEA or CD20) and to a target on T cells,
Separately, we have begun investigating a newly which provokes T cell activation, T cell proliferation, example, we are working on several types of cancer suppressing T cells and from promoting tumour
discovered immune receptor target known as T cell infiltration and the destruction of tumours. vaccines that might trigger a tumour-specific T cell growth and the formation of cancer-induced blood
TIGIT (T cell immuno-receptor with Ig and ITIM Our RG7802 bispecific antibody targets CEA, found response in patients where such responses have not vessels. Combination studies in patients have also
domains), which may play a role in fine-tuning on the surface of most colorectal and gastric cancers occurred spontaneously. begun with our anti-OX40 antibody and with the
the PD-1 response. and some pancreas, lung and breast cancers. RG7876, IDO-1 inhibitor.
RG7813 and RG7802 are all in phase I clinical As we dive deeper into the complex biology of
Along with inhibiting a tumour’s ability to sabotage development. tumours and the immune system, we increasingly We now have more than 20 cancer immunotherapies
the immune system, we are exploring pathways believe a combination of treatment approaches may in research and development, with nine compounds
to activate immune response. APCs, which are We are also testing the antibody RG7888 (MOXR0916), hold the greatest promise for cancer patients. We currently being tested in clinical studies and multiple
highly effective stimulators of T cells, are activated designed to stimulate immune response by activating currently have numerous studies underway internally combinations under investigation. Our comprehensive
by antibodies engineered to bind to CD40 surface the OX40 signalling pathway. In the tumour tissue, and with partners to test atezolizumab in combination cancer immunotherapy programme covers a total of
protein. Therefore, boosting APCs represents an it eliminates immunosuppressive T regulatory cells with other immunomodulators or with some of our more than 40 trials underway in lung, kidney and breast
additional tactic to augment the number of active and in the lymph nodes, as soon as APCs transport leading tumour-targeted therapies, such as Avastin cancer. Ultimately, we expect cancer immunotherapy
T effector cells. The CD40 agonist RG7876 activates tumour antigens, it stimulates the growth of T cells to and Zelboraf. to spawn a new era in oncology with the development
APCs that have engulfed tumour antigens, therefore battle tumour cells. RG7888 is being tested in phase I of therapies that transform deadly cancers into chronic
stimulating tumour reactive T cells. RG7876 is being clinical trials as a single agent and in combination One phase I clinical trial initiated in 2015 combines diseases which patients can live with for a long time.
developed in combination with other immuno- with atezolizumab. This drug candidate holds promise atezolizumab and emactuzumab (RG7155), an antibody
therapeutic antibodies, including atezolizumab. for treating several types of cancer. against the colony-stimulating factor-1 receptor, which
We have nine new molecular entities in
is involved in the production of tumour-associated
Using a cytokine fusion protein is another strategy Cancer vaccines and immunotherapy combinations macrophages (TAMs). Emactuzumab blocks the
clinical studies in cancer immunotherapy.
to mobilise T cells into the tumour. The antibody Our researchers are exploring innovative approaches activity and survival of TAMs, preventing them from
RG7813 binds to carcinoembryonic-antigen (CEA), that enable an immune response when no tumour-
a protein found on the surface of many cancers. It specific T effector cells can be found in either the
carries a molecule called interleukin 2 variant (IL-2v), tumour tissue or the immune environment. For
60 61Roche | Innovation Innovation | Roche
Personal perspective
“My own experiences with cancer helps
“A special
me to empathise with patients.”
opportunity to have He regained the weight he had lost. Most importantly
to him, he was able to read and play with his two small
children again.
an impact—as a Over a year later after he started the clinical study, I
had the pleasure of meeting Jeff, after he had expressed
interest in meeting us through his doctor. This was
a special experience for me, as I only knew of him as a
scientist and a physician.” data point on our clinical study. Jeff’s story is extremely
gratifying to me on so many levels. He continues to
do well today. Results like these give oncologists an
incredible sense of fulfilment and purpose.
Dan Chen, MD, PhD, Cancer Immunotherapy Franchise Head,
Not all patients respond as well as Jeff. His therapy
Global Product Development Oncology
addressed a particular pathway in the immune system
known as PD-L1. There are many other opportunities
for cancer cells to camouflage themselves and escape
The immune system the immune response. However, by leading the
Work helped me to focus my mind and my spirit understanding of how the immune system works in
during that year and a half. I never missed a day of cancer, we are rapidly developing even newer ways to
fighting cancer
work during my treatment, which was very tough at help the immune system recognise and fight cancer.
times. Due to the location of the tumour, we weren’t
able to get a biopsy, so I also had to come to grips with New insights are occurring in cancer immunotherapy
As a scientist, I have always been fascinated by the the uncertainty of whether I was going to live or die. every day now. It is an amazing time to be in this field,
potential of harnessing the body’s own immune and my job is a special opportunity to have an impact
system to fight cancer. I am particularly encouraged Today with our investigational cancer both as a scientist and a physician.
by the progress we are making in this area at Roche immunotherapies, I have seen cases unlike others
in realising that potential. in my years of medical practice. Patients who were
clearly nearing the end have been recalled, regaining
I am trained as a medical oncologist, and I have seen much of their former life, and continue to do well.
many patients fight bravely against cancer. During
those desperate times, I have been their doctor, their One such patient is Jeff Schwartz. When he was
counsellor and often their friend. And I have watched diagnosed with stage IV sarcomatoid renal cell
most of them lose the battle. carcinoma in February 2011, metastases had already
spread throughout his body. He was told by a kidney
I myself have had a personal glimpse into how specialist that he had only six months to live.
difficult a journey this fight can be. In 2008, I was
informed that the MRI I had on my back showed a In December 2011, Jeff started on a clinical trial of
two-centimetre tumour in my spine. The tumour one of our cancer immunotherapies. By the time he
crushed the nerves in my spine, putting me in pain started treatment, he could barely get out of bed. “I had the pleasure to meet Jeff, after he expressed interest in meeting
so excruciating that it frightened my children. In the study, Jeff responded well to the treatment. us through his doctor, oncologist Omid Hamid.”
62 63Roche | Innovation Innovation | Roche
Positive pipeline news flow Prostate cancer factor VIII inhibitors, as well as a trial in pediatric
Ipatasertib (RG7440), an Akt inhibitor developed in patients (less than 12 years old) with hemophilia A
partnership with Array BioPharma, reached efficacy who have inhibitors to factor VIII.
Strong data from clinical studies and safety endpoints when combined with abiraterone
in a phase II trial in patients with castration-resistant Neuroscience
prostate cancer previously treated with docetaxel We have a number of investigational medicines in
chemotherapy. Activation of the Pi3K/Akt pathway clinical development for neurological disorders,
is associated with poor prognosis and may lead to including multiple sclerosis (MS), Alzheimer’s disease
As we gain greater understanding about tumour Idasanutlin is currently being studied in a phase III resistance to standard-of-care therapies. Ipatasertib (AD), Parkinson’s disease (PD), spinal muscular
biology and immune function, cancer is divided trial in relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia blocks signalling through Akt, and can be combined atrophy (SMA), Down syndrome, autism spectrum
into ever more specific subtypes, defined not only (R/R AML). Idasanutlin is a first-in-class MDM2 with anti-hormonal therapeutics like abiraterone to disorders and pain.
by location in the body, but increasingly more often antagonist/p53 activation investigational medicine potentially extend the duration of benefit. Ipatasertib is
by molecular structure, protein markers, genetic that inhibits tumour cell growth and induces tumour also being studied in combination with chemotherapy Multiple sclerosis
mutations or signalling pathways. Scientists are cell death. In a phase I/Ib study, idasanutlin showed in patients with triple negative breast cancer. In 2015, positive results from two phase III studies,
verifying root genetic causes and finding new ways consistent durable complete remissions in R/R AML, OPERA I and OPERA II, on ocrelizumab in relapsing
to conquer them. a very difficult to treat, life-threatening disease with Hemophilia MS, and one phase III study, ORATORIO, in primary
high morbidity and unmet medical need. Idasanutlin Hemophilia A, a rare genetic disorder, occurs when progressive MS were presented. In relapsing MS,
Leukemia and lymphoma showed a 17% ORR as single agent and 33% ORR an essential blood-clotting protein called factor VIII is ocrelizumab significantly reduced the annualised
Positive data from the phase II M13-982 study in combination with chemotherapie Ara-C in the either not present in sufficient amounts or is defective. relapse rate, the primary endpoint of both studies,
of venetoclax, an investigational small molecule phase I/Ib study. In 2015, the FDA granted breakthrough therapy by nearly 50% compared with interferon β-1α over
medicine being developed in partnership with AbbVie designation to emicizumab (ACE910, RG6013), a the two-year period. In primary progressive MS, the
showed a clinically meaningful reduction in the Patients with R/R AML are in need of new therapies bispecific antibody, for treatment with factor VIII ORATORIO study met its primary endpoint, showing
number of cancer cells (overall response rate, ORR) that will increase survival since there has been no inhibitors of people with severe hemophilia A who treatment with ocrelizumab significantly reduced the
in 79.4% of people with previously treated (relapsed significant progress in this regard over the last four are 12 years or older. The development of inhibitors, risk of progression of clinical disability sustained for
or refractory) chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) decades. In addition to the phase III trial, idasanutlin antibodies developed by the body’s immune system at least 12 weeks by 24% compared with placebo.
with 17p deletion. It is a first-in-class molecule that is also being studied in phase Ib/II trials in combination that attack and destroy the replaced factor VIII, is
binds to the BCL-protein and helps restore a natural with venetoclax in AML and in combination with a serious complication of hemophilia A treatment Alzheimer’s disease
process that causes cancer cells to self-destruct. Gazyva/Gazyvaro in non-Hodgkin lymphoma. In regardless of disease severity, making it difficult, if not Our research focuses on several pathways believed
Study patients had previously treated CLL with a addition, we are investigating RG7828, a bispecific impossible, to achieve a level of factor VIII sufficient to play important roles in this disease, including
genetic mutation known as 17p deletion. This antibody that targets CD3-CD20. RG7828 is designed to control bleeding with traditional replacement β-amyloid and tau. Clinical research findings presented
mutation is seen in approximately 30% to 50% of to bind to a target on a patient’s leukemia or lymphoma therapies.2 Based on encouraging data from a phase in 2015 confirm the hypothesis that β-amyloid plays
CLL patients, who typically have poor results with cells (CD20), whilst at the same time binding to a I/II study that showed promising efficacy with once- an important role in development and progression of
existing therapies. target on their T cells (CD3), redirecting the T cells weekly subcutaneous administration of emicizumab, AD. In addition, early research indicates that tau may
to attack the cancer cells. The antibody has a different the first of our pivotal studies started enrolment in late be implicated in this disease. With multiple pathways
Venetoclax is being studied in phase II and III trials mechanism of action than rituximab, which is currently 2015. This trial will evaluate emicizumab in people and potential pathologies that contribute to develop-
for CLL and in phase I and II studies for several other used to treat blood cancers, and preclinical testing with hemophilia A and inhibitors to factor VIII who ment and progression of this disease, our research
blood cancers. AbbVie has submitted an NDA to the suggests it could circumvent rituximab resistance. are 12 years or older. We are preparing to initiate portfolio is positioned well to contribute to significant
FDA under breakthrough therapy designation and to additional trials in 2016, including a phase III trial advances in this disease area as we continue to generate
the EMA. Submissions to other regulatory authorities of emicizumab in people with hemophilia A without data in early and late development stages.
around the world are planned in 2016 (see page 46).
2 Astermark, J. Overview of Inhibitors, Seminars in Hematology, 2006.
64 65Roche | Innovation Innovation | Roche
We have two investigational compounds in late-stage Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis SMA affects the motor neurons of the muscles used SMN2-splicing modifier (RG7916) into clinical testing.
development. Crenezumab, a monoclonal antibody, We are also conducting research in amyotrophic for activities such as crawling, walking, head and neck A clinical trial investigating the safety, tolerability,
is designed to target all forms of β-amyloid and lateral sclerosis, also known as Lou Gehrig’s disease, control and swallowing. It is one of the most common pharmacokinetics and pharmaco-dynamics of RG7916
has moved into phase III clinical development in a disorder that involves the death of neurons, rare diseases, with one in 10,000 born with SMA. in healthy individuals was started in January 2016.
prodromal-to-mild AD. The monoclonal antibody especially motor neurons. People with this progressive
gantenerumab is designed to decrease levels of neurodegenerative disease suffer from stiff muscles, Olesoxime (RG6083) is an investigational medicine Huntington’s disease
aggregated β-amyloid. Further recruitment has been muscle twitching, and gradually worsening weakness being evaluated for its potential ability to preserve A rare genetic neurological disease, HD causes
stopped for a phase III study of gantenerumab in people due to muscle wasting that results in difficulty healthy spinal motor nerve cells. Results from a two- peopleto experience deterioration of both mental
with mild dementia due to AD (Marguerite RoAD). speaking, swallowing and eventually breathing. year phase II/III clinical trial involving people with abilities and motor control. Presently, there are
Analysis of data from the phase II/III SCarlet RoAD type 2 and non-ambulatory type 3 SMA indicate no disease-modifying treatments for HD. We are
study provided evidence that people with early AD Neurodevelopmental disorders that olesoxime stabilised neuromuscular function, as collaborating with Ionis Pharmaceuticals to develop
might benefit from a higher dose of gantenerumab. We continue our commitment to finding new treat- well as reduced medical complications associated with RNA-targeting medicines for the treatment of HD.
All participants in the SCarlet RoAD and Marguerite ment options for people with neurodevelopmental the disease, over two years compared with placebo. In mid-2015, the first patient entered a phase I/IIa
RoAD studies will now be offered treatment with a disorders, including autism spectrum disorder and Olesoxime is a cholesterol-like compound that binds clinical study to evaluate Ionis-HTTRx, the first
higher dose of gantenerumab to assess tolerability Down syndrome. A phase II trial is underway to to proteins found in mitochondria in cells (the source therapy to enter clinical development designed to
and safety. Upon evaluation of the higher dose data test the safety and tolerability of our V1a receptor of cellular energy production or the ‘powerhouse of reduce the production of all forms of the huntingtin
and after discussions with health authorities, we will antagonist RG7314 in people with autism spectrum the cell’). Olesoxime is designed to reduce the release (HTT) protein, including mutant huntingtin, which
decide on next steps for further clinical development disorder. This compound may improve the core of cell death factors from mitochondria and promotes is the protein responsible for HD.
of gantenerumab. social communication and interaction deficits of the survival of spinal motor nerve cells. Olesoxime
people with this disorder. was granted orphan medicinal product designation Immunology and inflammation
Parkinson’s disease for the treatment of SMA by the European Medicines There are more than 80 different types of
RG7935 is a monoclonal antibody targeting In Down syndrome, we have an ongoing phase II Agency and orphan drug designation by the FDA. autoimmune diseases; many of them chronic,
α-synuclein, a protein that may misfold and be study investigating RG1662 in adolescents and adults debilitating and even life-threatening. Most of the
involved in the pathogenesis of PD. In a development (12 to 30 years of age) and have started another In collaboration with PTC Therapeutics and the currently available therapies are unspecific, generally
collaboration with Prothena, RG7935 is currently phase II trial studying this investigational compound SMA Foundation, we are developing SMN2-splicing targeting immunosuppression but not addressing
being studied in a phase I trial involving people in children six to 11 years of age. Preclinical data modifiers for the treatment of SMA. The phase Ib the disease cause. We have expanded our immunology
with PD. An in-house developed smartphone app have shown that by selectively modulating GABA-A Moonfish trial investigating the safety of RG7800 in and inflammation research and early development
continuously measures symptom fluctuation in receptors in the brain, it may be possible to stimulate people with SMA was placed on clinical hold in April efforts, in recognition of the high unmet need and
people with PD. It is potentially the first time such learning and memory pathways, leading to improve- 2015. The decision to suspend dosing in Moonfish recent scientific advances that lead to a better under-
an approach has been used to measure disease ments in cognition as well as functioning and adaptive was taken by Roche as a precautionary measure, after standing of molecular mechanisms underlying these
and symptom severity in a medicine development behaviour in people with Down syndrome. observing an unexpected finding in an animal study diseases. Our scientists are focused on pathways
programme in PD. The remote patient monitoring evaluating the long-term safety of RG7800. We continue underlying adaptive immunity, innate immunity as
system works through a combination of patient Spinal muscular atrophy to thoroughly assess the safety finding in ongoing well as tissue inflammation and fibrosis.
input and passive tracking. The app is being used A rare and debilitating genetic neuromuscular animal studies and have advanced a second backup
in an ongoing trial for continuous measurement disorder, SMA is most commonly diagnosed in
of daily symptom fluctuation. Ultimately, it is children and is the leading hereditary cause of infant
hoped that the app can be used in future clinical mortality. SMA is caused by mutation or deletion of
development to enable more objective measures the SMN1 gene and is characterised by insufficient
on patient response to treatment, as a complement levels of SMN protein, which leads to progressive loss
to physician-led assessments. of motor neurons, muscle weakness and atrophy.
66 67Roche | Innovation Innovation | Roche
Increased risk for future
severe exacerbations Decline in lung function
Severe
asthma can
lead to:
Unacceptable daily symptoms
Hospitalisations
One of our internal programmes is the cathepsin S disease-modifying therapy for GA. Lampalizumab
(CAT-S) inhibitor (RG7625), which is believed to phase III studies are currently ongoing.
reduce the amount of specific molecules available Severe asthma not only impacts the quality of life of the patient and the caregiver, it also increases the medical burden for society.
for antigen presentation, therefore limiting immune Additionally, we are pioneering the development of
response. RG7625 could potentially be applied for a highly innovative bispecific monoclonal antibody,
treatment of multiple autoimmune diseases, as CAT-S RG7716, that targets VEGF-A and Angiopoietin-2
is involved in central pathways for adaptive immunity. (Ang-2), two angiogenic growth factors (meaning
Severe asthma: current medications do
Another programme, RG7845 (GDC0853) is a novel they spur blood vessel growth). RG7716 is in a phase II Infectious diseases
Bruton’s tyrosine kinase (Btk) inhibitor that helps clinical study for neovascular AMD. RG7716 is a The rise of bacterial resistance has become a threat
not break the severe asthma cycle.
block B cell proliferation and the resulting excessive bispecific antibody developed with the Roche-invented to global health. In line with our strong legacy in
immune response seen in autoimmune disorders. CrossMab technology to tightly bind VEGF-A on one antibiotics, we are leveraging significant know-how
GDC0853 binds to Btk in a novel way that is arm and Ang-2 on the other arm. A randomised, active to address this 21st century problem. Early studies are
believed to increase its effectiveness, and offers comparator-controlled phase II study is currently underway on a novel antibody that targets a potential We have one compound in phase II (RG7795, TLR7
promise for patients with other difficult-to-treat investigating the safety and efficacy of RG7716 in cause of re-infection in Staphylococcus aureus. agonist) and two compounds in phase I (RG7944
autoimmune diseases. patients with choroidal neovascularisation secondary Leveraging our breakthrough cancer technology, we and RG7834). The development of RG7944 is led by
to AMD. are using a leading-edge Trojan-horse type of platform our partner, Inovio. Several molecules in our HBV
In parallel to our own discovery activities, we strive that sneaks the drug into bacteria. This platform may portfolio have been developed in our R&D centre in
for alliances in this area with key academic and Respiratory diseases have potential for other resistant infections. Also, in Shanghai, China, in recognition of the heavy burden
biotech partners. In October we acquired RG6125 Lebrikizumab, which targets a protein found in people partnership with Meiji Seika Pharma and Fedora, we that HBV puts on China.
(SDP051) from Adheron Therapeutics. RG6125 is a with moderate to severe uncontrolled asthma, is in are developing the next-generation β-lactamase
monoclonal antibody targeting cadherin-11, which is phase III development with data expected in 2016. inhibitor RG6080. We are also advancing candidates for treating patients
believed to disrupt tissue cell interactions that drive In 2015, Thorax published phase IIb study results with the hepatitis C virus (HCV), which has infected
inflammation in a non-immunosuppressive manner. that showed lebrikizumab-treated patients with a Antivirals more than 185 million people.6 Danoprevir, a second-
In December, we partnered with Proximagen to high level of periostin had a 60% reduction in asthma For the past decade, Pegasys has been an important generation HCV protease inhibitor, is being developed
develop a novel, oral small molecule inhibitor of attacks, compared with only 5% in patients with a medicine for treating patients with the hepatitis B for patients of Asian origin through the R&D centre
Vascular Adhesion Protein 1 (VAP-1), a cell-adhesion low level of periostin.4 A companion test to identify virus (HBV). Roche continues to explore ways to treat in China, in collaboration with Ascletis. A phase II
molecule that may be effective in the treatment of high periostin levels is being developed in-house to the potentially life-threatening liver infection, which study of danoprevir in combination with pegylated
inflammatory diseases. support physicians in personalising asthma therapy. affects an estimated 240 million people.5 Our rich interferon plus ribavirin showed a sustained viral
HBV programme has advanced three compounds into response in patients with certain genotypes or
Ophthalmology Lebrikizumab is also in phase II trials for the treatment clinical development, each believed to interfere with subtypes of HCV.
Our research focuses on neovascular age-related of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), moderate-to- HBV in a different way to promote antiviral responses.
macular degeneration (AMD), diabetic macular severe atopic dermatitis, and moderate-to-very severe
edema, diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma and geographic chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). In
atrophy (GA) and glaucoma. GA is an advanced form 2015, the phase II IPF study was extended to compare
of AMD that affects over five million people globally in a combination of Esbriet plus lebrikizumab and
the developed world.3 There are currently no therapies Esbriet alone.
approved for GA. In 2015, the FDA granted fast
track designation to lampalizumab for the treatment In addition, we are evaluating Erivedge, our treatment 3 Wong WL., et al. Global prevalence of age-related macular degeneration and disease burden projection for 2020 and 2040: a systematic review
of GA secondary to AMD. Lampalizumab (anti- currently approved for advanced basal cell carcinoma and meta-analysis, Lancet Glob Health, 2014. | 4 Hanania NA., et al. Lebrikizumab in moderate-to-severe asthma: pooled data from two
Factor D Fab) is a selective inhibitor of complement- (aBCC), and GDC-3280, an additional molecule that we randomised placebo-controlled studies, Thorax, 2015. | 5 WHO Hepatitis B Fact Sheet, 2015. | 6 Messina JP., et al. Global Distribution and
mediated inflammation and potentially the first acquired with Esbriet from the InterMune acquisition. Prevalence of Hepatitis C Virus Genotypes, Hepatology, 2015.
68 69Roche | Innovation Innovation | Roche
Forward-looking partnerships genome sequencing centre in the world, to sequence effectiveness in difficult-to-treat bacterial infections.
and analyse tens of thousands of de-identified DNA The novel β-lactamase inhibitor RG6080 has the
from clinical trials across therapeutic areas. potential for an expanded spectrum against multi-
Mutual benefits through collaboration drug resistant bacteria. The clinical development
Another exciting collaboration is with 23andMe, programme is on track, enabled by the efficient
to analyse whole genome sequencing data for and trusted collaboration with the partners in this
approximately 3,000 individuals in the 23andMe programme. In a phase I trial, RG6080 is being
Parkinson’s disease community and their immediate studied for the treatment of severe infections caused
External innovation is crucial to our strategy of next milestone in Roche’s strategy of using high-quality family members to find potential drug targets for by Enterobacteriaceae spp.
bringing innovative treatments to patients in areas healthcare data and advanced analytics to improve the disease, which currently has no cure.
of unmet medical need. We currently manage over both the development of medicines and decisions in Partnerships in cancer immunotherapy
200 partnerships worldwide. Partnered products patient care. The collaboration with FMI, in which Infectious diseases In 2015, Roche initiated a number of clinical
contribute over a third of our Pharmaceuticals sales, Roche acquired the majority stake in April 2015, Roche has a strong legacy in antibiotics. Two collaboration studies with external partners to
and 35% of our R&D pipeline compounds are externally will leverage both companies’ strengths to advance antibiotic products developed by Roche are listed combine our lead cancer immunotherapy drug
sourced. Our science- and business-savvy partnering the progress in the discovery and development of in the WHO Essential Medicines List. The current atezolizumab in a broad number of tumour
teams work closely with internal R&D to gauge needs personalised treatments for cancer patients, and research strategy in infectious diseases focuses on types (see table).
and gaps. standardise data collection/analysis in both clinical areas of high unmet medical need, and the incidence
trials settings and in clinical practice. of drug-resistant infections is creating an urgent Innovation in procurement
At the same time, they closely follow emerging demand for new therapeutic options. Early in 2015 In our Pharmaceuticals Division we built an
companies around the globe, on academic advances The collaboration also includes the development of Roche, Meiji Seika Pharma and Fedora joined forces to Innovation Centre of Excellence to collaborate closely
and on other alliance opportunities, screening companion diagnostics based on next-generation tackle the increasing bacterial resistance to antibiotics, with key suppliers on innovation. 52 innovation
thousands of potential partners a year before selecting sequencing, which enables comprehensive genetic profil- when we licensed an investigational, next-generation business cases were approved by the end of 2015 versus
those that will truly help us raise the bar in drug ing on the basis of limited amounts of cancer tissue. β-lactamase inhibitor, RG6080. This compound the target of 45, and 49 business cases have been
discovery and development. This strategic agreement makes FMI organisationally targets β-lactamase enzymes in combination with launched since the initiation of this approach in 2012.
part of the global Roche Pharmaceuticals Division, but new or existing β-lactam antibiotics to enhance their
In 2015, Roche Partnering signed 61 new agreements, FMI retains operational independence to foster their
including four acquisitions, four product transactions, innovative energy and entrepreneurial spirit.
45 research and technology collaborations and eight
product out-licensing agreements. We are among the first ten pharma and biotech
companies that came forward to create the GENE
Genentech Partnering and Genentech’s Research Consortium. Genomics England announced this new
Contracts group signed 43 new agreements, including collaboration as part of the 100,000 Genomes Project, Clinical trial collaborations in cancer immunotherapy including atezolizumab
three product transactions and 40 research to accelerate the development of new diagnostics and
collaborations. treatments for patients. Disease Investigational medicine External partner
Non-small cell lung cancer Mutant-selective EGFR inhibitor rocilietinib Clovis Oncology, US
Molecular information and DNA analysis Genentech Partnering signed two other molecular Triple-negative breast cancer and colorectal Immunotherapy talimogene laherparepvec Amgen, US
Several key deals in 2015 capitalised on the emerging information collaborations that will help identify cancer with liver metastases or T-Vec
field of molecular information and its rapidly evolving new drug targets and biomarkers, as well as provide Soft-tissue sarcoma CMB303 Immune Design, US
role in targeted medicines and diagnostic solutions. insights about who is likely to get a disease and how Renal cell carcinoma CD27-targeting antibody varlilumab Celldex Therapeutic, US
The collaborations established with Foundation it progresses. Genentech will be using Human Triple-negative breast cancer Entinostat Syndax Pharmaceuticals, US
Medicine (FMI) and with Flatiron Health mark the Longevity, which has established the largest human Advanced solid tumours CPI-444 Corvus Pharmaceuticals, US
70 71Roche | Innovation Innovation | Roche
Personal perspective
“It’s exciting to work
“In most of our patient reports,
at the juncture
we can match a tumour profile with
a targeted therapy or ongoing trial.”
of genomics and
the patient was able to continue her active lifestyle.
medicine.” Not all of our outcomes are that positive, but it is
deeply gratifying to know our work can have an
immediate impact on a cancer patient’s treatment.
I am now involved in developing decision support
Kim Pelak, PhD, Data Scientist,
tools that will help more patients benefit from
our methodologies, as well as our vast molecular
Foundation Medicine
information knowledge base. For example, I worked
on a reporting tool to empower pathologists to
create their own reports by further customising
Unlocking cancer’s our content for their patients.
The majority of our patient reports are potentially
actionable—they give options to the treating physician Our genomic tests are now being used in Roche clinical
genetic code
and hope to the patient. And, we have already trials for a breakthrough cancer immunotherapy.
sequenced the tumours of over 60,000 individuals. Our molecular information can also play a key role
in identifying novel drug targets. It’s an incredibly
The revolution in genomics began to fascinate me when Historically, oncologists have primarily been interested exciting time to work at the juncture of genomics
I was in middle school in the 1990s. Scientists spoke in the tissue from which the cancer originated; for and medicine, and I am grateful to be part of it.
then about the enormous potential for personalised example, breast cancer was treated differently from
healthcare—but it was still largely hypothetical. colorectal or esophageal cancer. Today, we know that
all three cancers, and others, can be driven by the same
Today at Foundation Medicine, we are on the cutting molecular malfunctions and potentially treated with
edge of translating each person’s unique tumour profile the same targeted therapy. That’s why Foundation
into personalised therapeutic options for treating her Medicine tests for genomic variants across a patient’s
or his cancer. And, that is the basis for our strategic genome, regardless of the type of cancer.
partnership with Roche.
Sometimes, we get a chance to see the impact of our
We first sequence the genome of the patient’s cancer work. I remember a presentation from one female
using blood or tumour tissue, then search for genetic patient, a marathon runner in the prime of her life
variants that play a role in various types of cancer. Our who was suddenly diagnosed with stage IV lung cancer
curators then sift through huge databases to match and bone metastases. My colleagues sequenced her
those findings with targeted therapies, including those tumour and found a genetic variation which had a “Our data can contribute to R&D and molecularly match patients with
being studied in thousands of ongoing clinical trials. corresponding targeted therapy. With this treatment, appropriate trials and therapies.”
72 73Roche | Innovation Innovation | Roche
Basket trials Umbrella trials
Brain Ovarian Skin Lung Bowel Example:
Glioblastoma (brain tumour)
Innovative approaches for new medicines
New insights and new procedures Same mutation causing different manifestations Different medicines to hit same target
Using real-world data to inform R&D decisions validated, standardised information that helps Baskets, umbrellas and other clinical trial designs industry’s long-held, step-by-step development
From clinical trials, patient registries, hospitals, our researchers generate hypotheses and improve All new medicines or combinations of medicines process. Even in more traditional clinical trials, we
healthcare providers, insurance companies, and patient outcomes. must be fully tested before they can be made broadly are abandoning linear, time-constrained protocols
even online health sites and smartphone apps, there available. However, the era of targeted therapies is in favour of ‘adaptive’ study designs that build in the
has been an explosion of healthcare information in Molecular data from partnerships—like with FMI to ushering in new ways to perform these studies. The ability to alter aspects of an ongoing trial based on
recent years. Add to this genomic data we generate sequence tumours and DNA in cancer patients or decades-old approach of using phase I, II and III patient responses and new scientific understanding.
internally or which is produced by a plethora of 23andMe to sequence the DNA of 3,000 patients with clinical trials is giving way to cutting-edge study
biotech companies that can cheaply sequence the Parkinson’s disease—are supporting our research designs that more realistically and effectively allow In parallel, new clinical endpoints are being
human genome in a short time at a relatively low cost. focus and helping us understand disease at its most us to evaluate promising compounds in the patients introduced to assess the impact of investigational
If used appropriately, this health-related Real-World fundamental cellular level so we can develop the best for whom they are targeted. medicines, for example the ‘pathological complete
Data (RWD) can be a powerful resource, providing therapies and combinations of therapies for patients. response.’ Medication is given prior to surgery and if
invaluable insight into medicines, diseases and High-quality data is critical in informing our research Among the pioneering studies we have underway is the pathologist confirms that no vital cancer cells can
impacts of treatment over time. and helping us design or evaluate our innovative a first-of-its-kind ‘basket’ study on Zelboraf. This be found in the tissue sample taken during surgery,
clinical trials. approach puts other than metastatic melanoma BRAF the status of complete response is confirmed. This
However, RWD is vast and complex, and varies mutation-driven tumours, including brain, lung, colon approach has already been shown to bring new treat-
dramatically in quality and reliability. So how can Beyond the clinic, today’s healthcare landscape and ovarian, in a single study—or basket—and allows ment strategies to patients much faster. While it took
it be captured, managed and analysed to truly support demands holistic real-world information across the us to simultaneously evaluate whether Zelboraf is about eight years for Herceptin to get approved for
research and ultimately improve patient care? In a lifecycle of products. Increasingly, reimbursement effective in treating different cancers. Traditionally, pre-surgical (neoadjuvant) treatment, the comparable
nutshell: by driving the science. As one of the first decisions worldwide are based on whether new this would require separate trials for each tumour Perjeta approval took only a year and a half.
healthcare companies to integrate RWD in a meaning- medicines bring added benefit above the standard of type. Zelboraf is currently approved for metastatic
ful way into drug development, we are doing just that. care to patients in their daily lives. Do regional or melanoma caused by the BRAF mutation. Going beyond the strict medical focus, we are looking
Our Real-World Data Science (RWD-S) group, created cultural differences affect treatment? Is the impact at the whole patient. In one of the first-ever trials to
in 2014, will grow strongly over the next year. RWD-S different in the elderly? Our RWD-S group is helping We are also involved in an ambitious multi-partner examine personal preference for a cancer therapy,
biostatisticians have become vital collaborators on our address these data gaps, as well as questions of data public trial that is testing several drugs under the an ongoing study is comparing whether patients with
R&D teams. They cull, extract and deliver relevant, standardisation, compatibility and privacy that are ‘umbrella’ of the same tumour type: glioblastoma. HER2-positive early breast cancer would rather have
common in technology frontiers. Leveraging our Patients will be treated with different medicines, Herceptin administered subcutaneously or intravenously.
expertise in both pharmaceuticals and diagnostics, including five of our marketed and pipeline drugs,
and our strong relationships with key industry based on the genetic mutation most prominent in Whilst it is a complex matter to design this new wave
Molecular data support our research
partners, we want to take best advantage of the ocean their tumour. This personalised approach not only of innovative trials, we are committed to breaking
of informational opportunity swirling around. Real- increases the probability of treatment success, it will ground in driving data generation and accelerating
and help us to understand diseases at
World Data is still a young discipline, but we believe provide invaluable data on which of the targeted drug development so the right therapies can rapidly
it will become a crucial part of achieving optimal medicines are the best candidates for specific be delivered to the right patients.
their cellular level.
patient benefit. mutations. Both of these approaches upend the
74 75Roche | Innovation Innovation | Roche
Innovation in Roche Diagnostics minute in the subcutaneous tissue. People with sequencing (NGS) workflow with top talent. We
diabetes can then check the data as needed, using a continue to invest in leading technology and develop
wirelessly connected receiver: the current glucose products that will ultimately become integrated into
Improving efficiency and patient care value, the trend arrow, the glucose curve and a seamless end-to-end sequencing solution. Our
their diary. pipeline technologies address every point in the
sequencing workflow, and include sample preparation
This technology minimises the numbers of technologies, single-molecule sequencers, and data
fingerpricks needed compared to current standard and analytics management tools.
Testing drug-resistant organisms Utilising these new reagents, our experts across approaches. It also provides an extensive amount of
The acquisition of GeneWEAVE provides us with Roche Diagnostics and the Pharmaceuticals Division data and trend information. Of particular importance Our recent acquisition of Kapa Bioystems strengthens
Smarticles technology, an innovative new class of are working on developing foundational multiplex are the programmable alarms so that the person with our portfolio in the area of sample preparation. The
molecular diagnostics that quickly identifies multidrug- technologies that can be translated into new multiplex diabetes gets alerted if the glucose values rise or fall foundation of Kapa’s technology is custom enzyme
resistant organisms (MDROs) and assesses antibiotic product opportunities. The strategy is to develop too quickly. This is essential for people who are not evolution. This technology allows for the generation
susceptibility directly from clinical samples, without modular technologies that can accommodate a wide able to feel if they are becoming hypoglycemic as they of enormous libraries of enzyme variants, from which
the need for traditional enrichment, culture or sample range of biomarker expression and detect biomarkers suffer from so-called ‘hypoglycemia unawareness.’ ideal forms of the enzyme can be rapidly selected,
preparation processes. The first system in development, located in the same cellular compartment (e.g. both This can be especially dangerous during nights and expediting product development timelines. Other
vivoDx, is a fully automated, random-access system in the nucleus) whilst providing results in a timely affects a significant number of people with diabetes 2015 investments, including Signature Diagnostics
designed to rapidly meet the needs of laboratories manner on a single specimen. Digital pathology is an on insulin therapy. and the Lumora heat elution technology, complement
addressing MDRO detection and antibiotic therapy integral part of this process as imaging and algorithm our growing NGS portfolio and reinforce our long-
guidance. The technology is being evaluated in development become critical for rapid and accurate In first clinical studies, our innovative sensor was term vision to provide customers around the world
multiple sites across the US. interpretation of complex staining patterns. able to demonstrate that the insertion and wearing with a comprehensive genetic testing solution.
of the sensors was overall well tolerated.7 In addition,
Advancing multiplex technologies We are currently developing a model immune panel the results were promising regarding a very high level Turning data into information
In an era of cancer immunotherapy, and in view of detecting expression of CD3, CD8, CD20, CD68 of sensor accuracy and precision, especially in the We are actively exploring the opportunities for our
the increasing need to test several biomarkers to and FoxP3 markers and related panels that include hypoglycemic range.8, 9 diagnostics business in the area of big data. These
inform clinical decisions, it is becoming critical to detection of PD-L1. Work streams encompass both include the use of aggregated diagnostics information
detect multiple biomarkers on a single slide while darkfield (5-10-plex) and brightfield (2-4-plex) assay Next-generation sequencing to improve the quality of patient care and make
preserving tissue context, especially when tissue is formats that use unmodified and modified primary The acquisitions and partnerships initiated over the research and development more efficient, but also the
limited. Whilst conventional staining in anatomical antibodies as well as amplified and non-amplified past two years are positioning us to develop the best- use of big data in optimising the business of the
pathology is typically limited to one or two biomarkers, detection schemes. Progress is very promising for in-class technology across the next-generation laboratory itself.
we have developed a series of proprietary chromogenic providing our customers with a best-in-class multi-
stains for brightfield microscopy and a series of plexing solution for effective disease management.
fluorescent stains for darkfield microscopy that extend
multiplexing capability.* In addition to increasing Continuous management of diabetes
the number of simultaneously detected biomarkers, Our newly developed continuous glucose monitoring
these reagents permit highly sensitive detection of (CGM) system is designed to provide ongoing glucose * Available for research use only. Not for use in diagnostic procedures. | 7 Roche Diabetes Care. Summary Clinical Investigation Report, Study
co-localised bio markers, critical to identifying measurements. It comprises a glucose sensor that No. ATOS0111. | 8 Freckmann G., et al. Performance Evaluation of Three Continous Glucose..., J Diabetes Sci Technol, 2013. | 9 Zschornack E.,
tumour heterogeneity and characterising immune remains in the body for seven days and a controller/ et al. Evaluation of the Performance of a Novel System for Continuous Glucose Monitoring, J Diabetes Sci Technol, 2013. |
cell infiltrates. receiver. This system measures the glucose levels every www.roche.com/rnd_locations | www.roche.com/research_technologies | www.roche.com/pipeline
76 77Roche | Access to healthcare Access to healthcare | Roche
189
Acce s s to healthcare
We believe it’s urgent to deliver medical solutions right now, even as
we develop innovations for the future. That’s why we are committed
to working with partners at the local level to overcome barriers and
improve access to tests and medicines for all patients.
patient group delegates
from 41 countries attended our largest patient organisation meeting
78 79Roche | Access to healthcare Access to healthcare | Roche
O
ur aim is for every person who needs our medicines and
diagnostic tests to be able to access and benefit from them.
Significant breakthroughs in diagnosing and treating tailored plans to address them. We have implemented
serious diseases, as well as improvements in the delivery several successful partnerships and initiatives in
of healthcare, have steadily improved health outcomes our four key areas of focus: increasing awareness,
and increased life expectancy in recent decades. strengthening infrastructure, improving affordability
However, universal access to medical innovation and and delivering innovation.
quality healthcare remains a global challenge.
A multi-stakeholder approach
That challenge is complex and multifaceted. Healthcare Our innovative products deliver value through
resources and the demands on those resources vary therapeutic as well as economic benefits. For example,
widely from country to country, and even within many of our products can make healthcare delivery
countries. In some regions, the most sophisticated new more efficient by improving the mode of admin-
medicines and diagnostic tests are readily available, istration, or reducing the time patients spend in the
whilst in others, the healthcare infrastructure is so hospital. In addition, advances in science have led to
limited that basic medical care is still a luxury. personalised healthcare, where an accompanying
diagnostic test is used to identify patients most likely
We believe that it is critical to uncover the root causes to respond to a specific medicine. This helps to
that are limiting access at the local level, to be able optimise the benefit for patients and ensure more
to implement solutions that will make meaningful efficient use of healthcare resources.
differences. In 2015, we rolled out our Access Planning
Framework, resulting in improved insights into specific It requires all players—public authorities, non-
regional and national challenges at the local level and governmental stakeholders, patient organisations,
local communities, the healthcare industry and others
—to work closely together. Whilst governments
We have established partnerships with
have primary responsibility for establishing and
maintaining healthcare systems, the healthcare
four re-insurers and 16 local insurance
industry plays an important role in improving health.
As a global healthcare company, Roche shares a
companies to improve cancer care for
responsibility to tackle the challenges of improving
health outcomes.
millions of people across China.
80 81Roche | Access to healthcare Access to healthcare | Roche
Healthcare professionals
Patients Healthcare companies
Quality
healthcare:
a shared
Taking on a global challenge
responsibility
Improving access country by country
Regulators
Policymakers
A rise in chronic diseases, combined with an ageing Sustainable solutions, tailored locally
population, growing unemployment and economic There is no one-size-fits-all solution, and no single
pressures, further aggravate inequalities in access to stakeholder can tackle access challenges alone. Payers and insurers
healthcare, leading to very poor outcomes in some Therefore we work with many partners to continuously
regions of the world. and sustainably reduce the barriers that prevent or
limit people from benefiting from our products. These The delivery of quality healthcare is complex and involves a number of stakeholders. We are working with partners at the local level to address the challenges and help
Take the impact of cancer in South East Asia for barriers may include a lack of disease awareness, establish sustainable solutions.
example. Cancer is among the biggest causes of screening and diagnosis, fundamental infrastructure
morbidity worldwide, causing 8.2 million deaths in including adequately trained healthcare professionals,
2012 alone.1 In the next two decades, 70% of global and the availability of treatments and adequate care.
cancer mortality is predicted to occur in low- and Other factors such as geographical, political, financial
middle-income countries, with half of these deaths and cultural barriers can make effecting change
occurring in South East Asia.2 incredibly challenging. country along a patient’s journey to receiving optimal Strengthening national cancer plans
treatment, map the critical stakeholders and shape the One effective way to address the burden of cancer is
According to the ACTION (ASEAN Costs in Our approach is tailored to the individual healthcare strategies and tactics to overcome these hurdles. through national prioritisation and integrated local
Oncology) study, in this region, more than 75% of needs of each country, rather than a single, top-down planning.4 For example, in Poland, where cancer
people experience death or financial catastrophe approach. We provide comprehensive solutions to To ensure the sustainability of this approach, the plans treatment outcomes are among the poorest in Europe,
within a year of a cancer diagnosis.3 Urgent action increase awareness of diseases and healthcare options, are directly connected to the business and linked to we worked with several partners including the Polish
is needed to protect populations from the financial strengthen healthcare infrastructure in partnership both the commercial strategy and local management’s Society of Oncology to demonstrate the need to
burden of disease and to reduce the impact of loss with local stakeholders and improve the availability annual goals. We have also focused on building our improve cancer care.5 The ‘White Book of Polish
of economic productivity. and affordability of our products. local functional expertise to strengthen engagement Oncology’ report highlighted gaps in treatment and
with stakeholders in dynamic healthcare environments access to medicines, triggering high-level debates
Our aim is for every person who needs our products In 2015, we saw great engagement, commitment and and ultimately ensure the successful implementation with many stakeholders on developing of a sustainable
to be able to access and benefit from them. For this creativity to shape access plans that have the potential of the access plans. improvement strategy. This resulted in a Ministry
to happen, several conditions need to be in place, to make diagnostics and medicines available to many of Health-approved publication of a National
including disease awareness, adequate healthcare more patients around the world. Following the global Comprehensive Cancer Strategy, which represents a
infrastructure and sufficient medical coverage. We roll-out of workshops, we have now developed more major step forward in cancer care for the country.
are committed to working with our stakeholders to than 60 country-specific access plans. These plans
improve outcomes across the access spectrum.* analyse the various hurdles encountered in each
* www.roche.com/access_to_healthcare | 1 WHO Cancer factsheet, 2015. | 2 IARC, GLOBOCAN: Estimated Cancer Incidence, Mortality and
Prevalence Worldwide, 2012. | 3 Kimman M., et al. ASEAN Costs in Oncology, 2015. Published by the George Institute for Global Health with the
support of an unrestricted educational grant from the Roche Asia-Pacific Regional Office. | 4 UICC National Cancer Control Planning for Non-
Governmental Organisations, 2006. | 5 EUROCARE European Journal of Cancer, 2009.
82 83Roche | Access to healthcare Access to healthcare | Roche
Africa Strategy
Initial implementation
Nigeria, Ghana, Kenya, Côte d’Ivoire, Angola, Ethiopia, Gabon
Shifting the access paradigm in Africa Ongoing outreach
Uganda, Senegal, Cameroon, Mauritius, Tanzania, Madagascar, Rwanda, Congo RDC,
Congo RC, Mozambique, São Tomé and Principe, Equatorial Guinea, Cape Verde
Establishing long-term solutions
Through the Africa Strategy, we are focusing on 20 countries where we aim to increase access to our innovative treatments for patients whilst creating a long-term
sustainable business environment.
The African continent is developing quickly, with the From this initial analysis, it was decided to focus
GDP expected to increase by 5% in 2016.6 Significant on 20 countries.
strides have been made in improving health outcomes
in many countries. However, major challenges remain, We commenced the strategy in 2015 in seven
particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. countries: Nigeria, Ghana, Kenya, Côte d’Ivoire, and Roche covering the remainder. The programme diagnostic test provides dried blood spot testing—a
Angola, Ethiopia and Gabon. We are implementing a aims to treat an additional 3,000 patients with viral simple, innovative method for collecting, transporting
Poor outcomes persist in sub-Saharan Africa for a wide selection of activities in collaboration with local hepatitis and about 1,000 women with breast cancer and storing patient samples in resource-limited
multitude of reasons, including low disease awareness, partners, including healthcare system strengthening, over five years. settings. The HIV Global Access Programme expands
late presentation of patients with disease, limited such as local data generation, advocacy for healthcare our commitment to providing viral load and early
quantity and poor quality of healthcare institutions, prioritisation, and building infrastructure; disease Increasing access to HIV diagnostics infant diagnostics through affordable price offerings
lack of medical specialists, uncertain supply chain management support, such as awareness, advocacy The Africa Strategy builds upon the successes of in countries with the highest disease burden, primarily
quality, low government priority, little to no local campaigns and treatment guidelines; education other Roche access programmes, such as our efforts across Africa.
prevalence data and limited funding. and market access solutions, such as healthcare to improve HIV testing worldwide. As the leading
professional training, private health insurance with provider of HIV viral load testing, Roche has a long- By increasing access to viral load and early infant
Over 150 million people had hepatitis B in sub-Saharan local companies and price-volume agreements standing commitment to expanding access to HIV HIV testing, we are helping to strengthen diagnostic
Africa in 2012, whilst 400,000 women were diagnosed with governments. diagnostics around the world. capacity and improve the quality of HIV treatment
with breast cancer and an estimated 54,000 women services. This helps to support the global UNAIDS
die from cervical cancer in Africa every year.7 We are Breakthrough agreement in Côte d’Ivoire Most people living with or at risk of contracting the goal of ensuring that 90% of all people receiving
committed to improving outcomes in these disease With more than 2,000 new cases per year, breast disease, do not have access to adequate prevention, antiretroviral therapy achieve viral suppression.
areas across the region. cancer is the leading cancer in women in the Côte treatment or care. Improving laboratory capacity is
d’Ivoire. In most cases, the disease is only detected critical in order to ensure that people living with HIV This programme is run in partnership with the
Taking a holistic approach after the cancer has become advanced.8 Meanwhile, have access to the diagnostic tests, monitoring and Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, the
Our Africa Strategy is one part of our overall strategy Hepatitis B is the first cause of liver cancer in the treatment they need. Clinton Health Access Initiative, UNITAID, the US
to analyse access barriers on a country-by-country country, with a prevalence of 13%.9 President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief and the
basis and develop tailored solutions with local partners. In January 2015, we launched the HIV Global Access Global Fund to Fight AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.
We aim to increase access to our innovative treatments In 2015, Roche commenced a new programme in Programme, offering sustainable solutions for HIV
for patients in sub-Saharan Africa whilst creating a partnership with the Côte d’Ivoire Ministry of Health viral load tests in eligible low- and middle-income
Since 2002, over seven million infants
long-term sustainable business environment. We to improve access to tests and innovative medicines. countries. The programme covers 82 countries and
conducted an in-depth analysis of countries in Africa In this comprehensive approach, Roche is supporting close to 90% of the global population of people
have been HIV-tested through a Roche
using a multitude of factors such as disease incidence, the government to raise disease awareness, train infected with HIV. Beyond this, the programme also
urban population growth, middle-class emergence, healthcare professionals and build diagnostic covers early infant HIV testing. A timely HIV infant
Diagnostics global access programme.
healthcare spend and government focus on healthcare. capabilities. Regarding treatment, patients pay a diagnosis greatly improves disease management and
minimal portion of the cost, with the government outcomes of HIV-infected infants. Roche’s early infant
6 AfDB, OECD, UNDP, African Economic Outlook, 2015. | 7 WHO Cervical cancer fact sheet, 2015. | 8 Islami F., et al. Tumor size and stage of
breast cancer in Côte d’Ivoire and Republic of Congo: Results from population-based cancer registries, The Breast, 2015. | 9 Yoman N., et al.
Occult HBV infection in untreated HIV-infected adults in Côte d’Ivoire, Antivir Ther, 2010.
84 85Roche | Access to healthcare Access to healthcare | Roche
Personal perspective
“Think
“As part of our strategy to increase local
expertise, Roche is providing full
about what an
scholarships for five medical oncologists.”
additional ten years Diagnostics Divisions. For example, we are installing a
tissue diagnostics machine at a public cancer treatment
centre. Additionally, we will provide training to
pathologists and technicians.
of life means!”
We are also committed to assisting the Ministry of
Health in gathering accurate data on cancer through
cancer registry development. We are partnering to
support training and provide infrastructure including
Beatrice Nyawira, MD
laptops and software. Good data will provide a clearer
picture of the actual disease burden and inform policy
Medical Manager, Roche Kenya
for resource allocation. In addition, we are partnering
with the government through a public healthcare
programme to increase access to some of our
Reducing access innovative breast cancer medicines.
can go as low as eight months. In most developed
countries, it can be ten years. Think about what Everything is coming together. Cancer is finally
barriers in Kenya
an additional ten years of life means! A woman getting a voice through media and advocacy and
could raise her children, start a new career, realise the government is open and willing to act. Our
her dreams. It is difficult for me to put the value commitment could not have come at a better time.
I became a medical doctor because I felt a deep of that into words. I truly believe that we can make a huge difference
need to help people. After seeing patients every day in improving cancer treatment in Kenya.
for more than six years, I realised that my ability to At Roche Kenya, we are partnering with the government
impact the overall healthcare environment was to break down access barriers to oncology treatment.
limited. That’s why I joined Roche. And that goes well beyond the price of drugs. From
awareness and diagnosis to increasing the capacity
Today my colleagues and I are working to and expertise of healthcare professionals to treatment
fundamentally change the treatment paradigm access, we are looking at the whole continuum.
for oncology. Whilst infectious diseases such as
HIV, malaria and tuberculosis remain a priority As part of the programme, we will offer full
in Africa, cancer has not received the attention scholarships for an additional five medical oncologists
it deserves. in Kenya and sponsor a programme to train oncology
nurses at a local medical school in Eldoret. We will also
Particularly for breast cancer, incidence rates conduct preceptorships with local and international
approach those of Western countries—but the experts to improve mastectomy and diagnostic
mortality rate is much higher. The life expectancy techniques. In cancer diagnosis, we are leveraging “We are forging new partnerships to change the paradigm for
in Kenya for breast cancer patients after diagnosis our collaboration between our Pharmaceuticals and diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer.”
86 87Roche | Access to healthcare Access to healthcare | Roche
Personalised reimbursement model framework
Working within healthcare systems
Multiple indication pricing Combination pricing Pay for response
Allows a medicine to be priced according to the Ensures the benefits of a combination therapy are Bases the level of reimbursement on a patient’s
Increasing access to tests and medicines benefit it delivers in different indications. reflected, whilst taking into consideration the limits response to a medicine over a specified time period.
of healthcare budgets.
This approach allows price differentiation to reflect the benefit the treatment delivers to patients.
When bringing a product to market, we work closely to determine an appropriate pay-out for treatment
with governments, insurers and other healthcare and to launch affordable cancer insurance policies
providers to determine its value. This enables us to that cover the best available treatment, access to
demonstrate the value of the product to patients, their hospitals and doctors, and cancer education and
families, healthcare professionals, payers and society support. Approximately 40 million policies have to palliative care. This partnership is likely to trigger France, whether based on indication, line of treatment,
in general, in order to gain appropriate reimbursement. since been sold in China. similar arrangements in the coming months. duration of treatment or treatment combinations.
It all adds up to more choice; national health
However, we recognise that despite improvements in In October 2015, Roche signed a contract with a Personalised reimbursement models authorities will have a wider range of potential pricing
healthcare infrastructure and funding, innovative large insurance company in Shenzhen—a city with Whilst most reimbursement today is based on an solutions to discuss with Roche, which will ultimately
medicines and diagnostics remain beyond the reach a population of 11 million people—to ensure Avastin undifferentiated price per item, personalised benefit patients.
of many patients in need. Therefore we are exploring is on the reimbursement list for metastatic colorectal reimbursement models (PRMs) allow medicines
new pricing and access models that are tailored to cancer. Shenzhen has now become the first city in to be priced according to the benefit they deliver. A wide spectrum of innovative pricing models
the dynamics of each healthcare system, rather than China where all four of Roche’s targeted therapies We have developed several other innovative pricing
a uniform pricing structure. These innovative which are approved in the country (MabThera/Rituxan, Our PRM framework includes multiple indication models, tailored to the needs of patients in different
approaches include personalised reimbursement Avastin, Herceptin and Tarceva), are reimbursed. pricing, allowing medicines to be priced according healthcare systems. For example, international
models, differential pricing, patient assistance Roche is aiming to significantly increase the patient to the benefit they deliver in different indications; differential pricing programmes help to reduce
programmes and private insurance coverage. access rate in China for Herceptin and MabThera/ combination pricing, where the benefit of the combined prices for governments to facilitate reimbursement
Rituxan over the next two years. therapy is reflected whilst taking into account budget for medicines prescribed through public healthcare
Governments in emerging and developed regions constraints; and pay for response, where reimbursement systems, with prices based on adjusted GDP per
are finding it increasingly difficult to fund access to New access initiatives in Europe is based on a patient’s response to a medicine over a capita for the country in question. Roche believes
innovative treatments for cancer and other diseases Meanwhile in Portugal, due to budget constraints specified time period. that price differentiation between countries can
from public budgets alone. Roche actively supports across the public sector, access to innovative improve patient access to innovative medicines in
innovative approaches to improve treatment coverage, treatments via the national system has become PRMs are now being introduced across Europe, with markets with significant access problems.
including private insurance as a complement to increasingly difficult. Roche investigated public-private 26 markets already taking part. For example, in France,
public funding of healthcare. partnerships and started to work with the two most we initiated the pilot phase in 14 hospitals in 2014 to In some developing regions we sell second brands of
important health insurance companies in the country, validate the feasibility of the PRM approach for breast our products, which are subject to the same quality
Expanding private insurance coverage in China expanding the insurance companies’ coverage to help cancer treatment. In 2015, we scaled up the initiative control as the original product but under different
In China, a very small portion of the population has a close the funding gap. significantly, and there are now over 80 hospitals in names and sometimes in slightly different forms,
health insurance policy that covers the costs of cancer France taking part. such as in vials rather than syringes. Additionally,
treatment. Roche teamed up with four re-insurers and In October 2015, the health insurance market leader patient assistance programmes help to provide access
16 local insurance companies, including the three introduced the first-ever private health scheme for Different pricing models based on the value for the to some of our medicines for underinsured and
largest, to help them develop policies that will cover cancer in Portugal, covering the entire spectrum of patients can now be considered in countries such as uninsured patients.
cancer treatment and care. This enabled companies care from monitoring of the disease and treatment
88 89Roche | Access to healthcare Access to healthcare | Roche
Partnering with our key stakeholders
Elevating the patient voice
We organised the ‘Harnessing the Power of Women to Drive Positive Change in Oncology and Beyond’ panel discussion at the 2015 World Cancer Leaders’ Summit.
Finding equitable and sustainable solutions to the Focusing on the societal value of innovation
global barriers to healthcare can only be achieved At the policy level, we are helping to facilitate a
through persistent commitment and action by conversation on how to measure the value of new improve cancer care access and outcomes for all people affected by multiple sclerosis, was developed by
multiple stakeholders. To succeed, we must jointly innovative treatments in a climate of cost constraints members of society. In support of this platform, a multi-disciplinary group of experts and supported
develop innovative, sustainable ways to bring effective and limited healthcare budgets. At the 2015 European we developed a report on ‘Women as Change Agents with an educational grant from Roche.10 Presented at
and affordable healthcare to people and improve Health Forum Gastein, a leading health policy confer- in Oncology’ to further explore how reducing the the European Committee for Treatment and Research
health outcomes.* ence, we held an interactive session in collaboration burden of cancer on women can add value for patients, in Multiple Sclerosis in 2015, it recommends policy
with several European health associations** on this healthcare systems and society. changes to ensure that people with this disease are
The UN underlined the importance of promoting good topic. The session ‘Scoping the value of innovation; able to receive effective treatment early so as to have
health globally in the 2015 Sustainable Development Measuring the unmeasurable’ attracted a wide range Increasing collaboration with patient groups an impact on the lifelong course of the disease. The
Goals, which Roche supports (see page 94 for more of stakeholders from all levels of health systems. We take patient engagement very seriously at Roche recommendations made in the report have been
details). A key part of achieving this goal is ensuring and endeavour to support patient organisations’ endorsed by a number of professional associations
universal health coverage, including access to There was a clear call that a value analysis should not objectives where possible.*** Today, our interactions and advocacy groups.
healthcare services, medicines and vaccines for people only take into account the price of innovation and with patient groups are multifaceted and range from
living in both developed and developing regions. clinical outcomes, but should also consider the broader funding organisations and building capacity to We also supported the patient-driven Idiopathic
impact on families, communities, employment and organising meetings and supporting advocacy (see Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF) Charter, which calls for
Roche has joined WHO and other stakeholders in the economy. page 98 for more details). decision-makers to take action on improving IPF
supporting the drive for universal health coverage, patients’ quality of life as well as to support
and has welcomed the trend toward more evidence- The value of reducing the burden of cancer on society The International Experience Exchange for Patient development of long-term treatments and work
based decision-making in resource allocation. In was also a key theme at the 2015 World Cancer Leaders’ Organisation (IEEPO), Roche’s largest global patient towards a cure.11
low-resources settings, it is crucial to target limited Summit, where we joined 250 leaders from United organisation meeting, was held in Munich in 2015
health budgets toward the interventions and services Nations agencies, national ministries of health, patient and focused on the vital role of patient organisations. In 2015, we also established a Pre-Approval Access
that will provide the most benefit and value to the organisations, academia and private industry. We A record total of 189 delegates from 41 countries and Medical Ethics group within the Office of the
greatest number of people. organised the ‘Harnessing the Power of Women to attended IEEPO 2015, and agreed that the potential Chief Medical Officer, which focuses on ethical,
Drive Positive Change in Oncology and Beyond’ panel role patients can play in research, clinical trial design patient-centred approaches to clinical research and
In this respect, health technology assessment (HTA) discussion, which investigated the direct and indirect and recruitment, HTA and other aspects of drug pre-approval access to investigational medicines.
has become a key tool to help countries allocate burdens that cancer imposes specifically on women in development and access, could and should increase Going forward, we aim to increase this valuable
health resources more efficiently, equitably and their roles as family members, caregivers and patients. significantly. exchange and hope to further incorporate the patient
based on evidence. We are supporting our affiliates’ perspective in defining the potential value that new
understanding of this approach and how best to The panellists explored ways to harness the growing An international report ‘Brain Health: Time Matters in innovations can bring to people’s lives.
ensure optimal access to innovative treatments at political power, social and scientific prominence of Multiple Sclerosis’ aimed at improving outcomes for
the local level. women to ensure policy prioritisation and action to
* www.roche.com/stakeholder_engagement | ** European Cancer League, European Health Management Association, International Association
of Mutal Benefits Societies and European Patients Forum. | *** www.roche.com/patient-groups | 10 Giovannoni G., et al. Brain Health: Time
Matters in Multiple Sclerosis, 2015. Published by Oxford PharmaGenesis Ltd with the funding of an educational grant from Roche. | 11 IPF patient
advocacy groups, European IPF Patient Charter, 2015. An initiaitve supported by Roche.
90 91Roche | Responsible business Responsible business | Roche
1,000
Re s pon sible bu sine s s
Compliance is our license to operate and serves as a foundation to
build and maintain trust with our stakeholders.
supplie r audit s
conducted at the global and local level
92 93Roche | Responsible business Responsible business | Roche
W
e have been committed to improving lives for nearly
120 years, led by the spirit of running our business in
a socially responsible way.
In 2015, the United Nations General Assembly issues, like at our yearly Sustainability Forum, where
unanimously adopted 17 Sustainable Development more than 80 internal stakeholders and some external
Goals (SDGs) to end poverty, protect the planet, experts discuss innovations in the supply chain, how
and ensure prosperity for all as part of the 2030 to foster access to healthcare, improve sustainability
Sustainable Development Agenda. This agreement reporting on the affiliate level, and how to enhance
marks an important milestone in the next phase of employee engagement. For example, Roche sites like
sustainable development with the engagement of a Mannheim, Penzberg and Basel have introduced
wide range of stakeholders. platforms where employees contribute ideas to improve
their working environment and processes. More than
We are committed to supporting a number of the half of the employees in Mannheim and Penzberg
SDGs in line with our business strategy; in particular worked on more than 1,100 continuous improvement
SDG3, which aims at ensuring healthy lives and activities in 2015. Additionally, employees submitted
promoting well-being for all. Beyond communicable about 1,000 ideas leading to savings of over EUR 4 million.
diseases such as tuberculosis and malaria, non- They mainly resulted from waste reduction in Pharma
communicable diseases, including cancer and mental and Diagnostics manufacturing as well as general
disorders, are also now universally recognised as areas optimisation of manufacturing and logistics.
of high unmet medical need. We are at the forefront in
developing effective therapies and diagnostic tools to Compliance is our license to operate
diagnose, treat and monitor cancer and neurological We take our responsibilities seriously in order to
disorders (see page 56 for more details). One objective meet high standards of business ethics and integrity.
of SDG3 is to achieve universal health coverage, which This is instrumental to our sustainable success, and
is a pre-requisite to achieving better access to safe, hence to our ability to make a lasting impact on
effective and high-quality medicines and diagnostic public health. Integrity at Roche means doing things
tests for all. By developing innovative approaches in right from the start. We strongly believe that people are
collaboration with international and local players, the most important success factor for compliant
we strive to break down the access barriers for many behaviour. It starts with line managers having the right
patients around the world, supporting the universal mindset, and being responsible for the careful
healthcare coverage goal (see page 80 for more details). selection, instruction and monitoring of their
teams. But compliance goes beyond line management.
Stakeholder engagement is a key pillar of Roche’s Every employee is accountable for his or her own
comprehensive sustainability management process.* behaviour. This approach forms the foundation of
This allows us to identify and prioritise material our comprehensive compliance management system.
* www.roche.com/stakeholder_engagement
94 95Roche | Responsible business Responsible business | Roche
The Group Risk Report is annually
Fostering a culture of compliance Suppliers and service providers: findings in sustainability 148 employment contracts were terminated on the
Our expectations of our employees are expressed in audits by category (%) grounds of unethical behaviour. 18 agreements
discussed with executive management.
the Roche Group Code of Conduct. It is designed with business partners were also terminated for
to set the standards for our business behaviours and 2015 the same reason.
provide guidance to our employees. In 2015, we Ethics <10%
launched the revised Roche Group Code of Conduct,* Labour 10–25% Managing opportunities and risks Assessing sustainability risks and opportunities
which helped to further foster the awareness that Health and safety 10–25% Our Risk Management Policy sets out our approach We have established a Business Sustainability Risk
integrity is of utmost importance within our organ- Environment 10–25% to identifying, managing and reporting internal and Process, which allows us to assess emerging risks and
isation. In addition, a new version of an e-Learning Managementsystems 25–50% external risks and opportunities.† This Group Risk developments on an annual basis and to integrate
course to support good records management practices Management Process is embedded at all levels of the these into our existing Group Risk Management
Of all the audits conducted, the ranges provided indicate the percentage
was introduced in 2015. Records management is one of findings in each category. Roche helps its suppliers follow up on these organisation using consistent methodologies and Process. Each year, emerging sustainability risks
component of Roche’s Code of Conduct and defines findings. processes to routinely perform risk assessments. A and developments are identified and assessed by an
how to create, manage, retain, and discard records Group Risk Report, which covers all material risks, expert cross-functional team. In 2015, new categories
in accordance with the laws and regulations of the Speaking up is the right thing to do is annually discussed with the Corporate Executive were identified which consider and include, where
countries in which we operate. This training module Our primary goal is to create an environment of Committee and reviewed by the Audit Committee appropriate, our previous year’s emerging risks
is mandatory for all employees and business-critical mutual trust where issues can be discussed in open of the Board of Directors. and developments:
contractors. dialogue and potential violations can be prevented.
Employees are encouraged to speak up when they have The Group Risk Advisory team provides advisory • Digital evolution: companies are becoming more
Roche’s suppliers and service providers are expected a compliance concern by using available SpeakUp services to sites, affiliates, project and product teams, and more dependent on cutting-edge information
to adhere to the same standards as our employees. channels. In 2015, 125 employees used the Roche Group and facilitates risk discussions to support the business technology and digital data, hence raising the
Our Roche Supplier Code of Conduct** is included in SpeakUp Line, which is available in 53 languages in in many specialist areas such as digital media, IT question of data integrity and data confidentiality.
contracts and we offer an e-Learning programme to 101 countries. Any employee who raises a compliance security, compliance and sustainability. e-Learning Cyber threats and cloud security are also considered.
help our suppliers and service providers increase their concern in good faith acts in the interest of Roche and programmes, classroom training, workshops, risk • Innovation: the constant evolution of life sciences
knowledge and understanding of Roche’s expectations deserves acknowledgement. Roche does not tolerate roundtables and cross-divisional risk forums are in and technologies requires companies to adapt their
and of industry standards. any retaliation against an employee who raises a place to improve the understanding of risks and help innovation strategy in order to constantly embrace
compliance concern in good faith. employees to manage them appropriately. scientific progress and business opportunities.
We also operate a stringent process to qualify and • Corporate evolution: global corporations are exposed
audit current and new suppliers and service providers. In 2015, the Chief Compliance Officer received 804 We continue to strengthen our business continuity to growing complexity of their business environment,
In 2015, we conducted more than 1,000 audits of reports relating to alleged violations of the Code of management (BCM) to ensure that our sites and including an increasing number of third-party
global and local suppliers and service providers. The Conduct via the Business Ethics Incident Reporting affiliates respond effectively to catastrophic events, and relationships and partnerships.
main findings at suppliers related to quality, health and system. The vast majority of the reports related to develop strategies and tactics to deliver a minimum • Government and society: companies now have
safety, whilst findings at service providers occurred personal integrity cases, such as expense fraud, conflict acceptable level of key products and services. The Group to include multiple stakeholders in their decision-
primarily in quality, social and managerial areas. We of interest, abuse of company assets, harassment and BCM Policy and Guideline facilitates a consistent and making process, including governments, non-
helped our suppliers follow up on the findings.*** discrimination. The remainder related to violations of aligned approach to local implementation. governmental organisations and other citizen groups.
company integrity, such as good practice in marketing, • Demographic evolution: companies are challenged to
antitrust and false records. Out of 804 allegations Preparing for an influenza pandemic is covered under re-think and adapt their operating model to fit societal
The Roche Group Code of Conduct is
287 were unfounded, 162 are still under investigation, our Group Influenza Pandemic Policy, which is based expectations and needs (e.g. flexible workplace).
and 355 were founded. All allegations are subject to on the most recent WHO Interim Guidance. All sites
available in 30 different languages.
careful investigation, and, if allegations are founded, are required to have an updated influenza pandemic
adequate corrective measures and sanctions are taken. plan in place that has been properly tested.
* www.roche.com/code_of_conduct | ** www.roche.com/roche_supplier_code_of_conduct.pdf | *** www.roche.com/suppliers |
† www.roche.com/risk_management_and_compliance
96 97Roche | Responsible business Responsible business | Roche
Working with governments to improve public health Increasing transparency
We are actively engaging with government officials We are committed to transparent reporting and we
and industry bodies in order to contribute to the endeavour to drive our social and environmental
public debate and to the development of effective performance with the same diligence as our financial
public health laws, regulations and policies. In 2015, performance. This is why we follow the Global
key areas for discussion and engagement were: Reporting Initiative G4 guidelines, which we disclose The future brings new challenges and opportunities based on the development of disruptive information technologies.
at the core application level. We also report a number
• In the EU: Data Protection Regulation, in vitro of additional indicators.*
diagnostics regulation, access to innovative
medicines. Patient organisations are important partners for
• In the US: biosimilars, payment reform, patient Roche. Throughout our interactions, we are committed We separated our commercial and medical We also publish data voluntarily on a global level as
access to healthcare. to ensuring that all collaborations reflect the shared organisations in both the Pharmaceuticals and part of our sustainability reporting.
values of integrity, maintenance of independence, Diagnostics Divisions, differentiating clearly between
Roche remains independent of any political affiliation; respect and mutual benefit. Our support of a patient non-promotional activities of medical or scientific Contributions to healthcare institutions
however, we do support a number of associations and organisation is always based on a written agreement, intent and promotional activities. In addition to this Total amount CHF 124 million
political institutions. In Switzerland, we spent around which clearly states the purpose and amount of any separation, we have established a Pharma Healthcare
CHF 9.3 million in 2015, which includes payments financial support, and includes a description of any Compliance Office to effectively support line manage- 2015
to industry associations and various chambers of significant indirect or non-financial benefits. ment in their compliance responsibilities. Education of healthcare professionals 53%
commerce, financial assistance to trade unions, and Research 39%
donations to political parties at the cantonal and In accordance with industry guidelines, we make Roche is dedicated to engaging in productive and Education of patients and general public 8%
federal level. Donations to political parties are each public details of our relationships with patient transparent dialogue and collaboration with healthcare
in the low-double-digit thousand Swiss franc range organisations. This list is updated annually and professionals and healthcare organisations, and we Disclosing clinical information benefiting society
and overall less than 3% of total contributions and published on our website.** are committed to satisfying legitimate requests for Roche is committed to sharing data from clinical trials,
donations. information about the results of research and and we have taken significant steps in recent years to
Contributions to patient organisations development activities in a transparent, accurate enhance how we share our clinical study information:
Our eligible employees in the US can make personal Total amount CHF 30 million and timely way.
political contributions through Roche’s Good • By publishing protocol and study results information
Government Committee (GGC) and Genentech’s 2015 Throughout 2015, new divisional guidance was on clinical trial registries***
Political Action Committee (GenenPAC). Both are Research projects 7% implemented regarding interactions with healthcare • By disclosing appropriate clinical study
voluntary political action committees. In 2015, the Workshops, seminars and meetings 13% professionals and organisations, including grants, documentation such as Clinical Study Reports (CSRs)
GGC and GenenPAC jointly contributed approximately Educational grants 17% sponsorships and donations to healthcare-related • Through peer-reviewed publications and presentations
USD 300,000 to candidates and candidate committees. Service contracted with patient organisations 3% entities. Training and information sessions have been • By providing qualified researchers with access to
Disease awareness and general education 60% organised to train employees across the Group on patient-level clinical trial data†
this new guidance.
In all cases, disclosures are made so as to safeguard
We are transparent about our contributions to patient privacy. We collaborate with a number of
healthcare professionals and organisations, and we groups involved in advancing opportunities for data
are committed to full compliance with all laws, sharing. These engagements include partnerships
regulations and industry codes requiring disclosure established through clinicalstudydatarequest.com
(e.g. US Sunshine Act, EFPIA Disclosure Code). and TransCelerate.
* www.roche.com/non-financial-reporting | ** www.roche.com/patient-groups-list | *** www.clinicaltrials.gov, https://eudract.ema.europa.eu |
† www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com
98 99Roche | Responsible business Responsible business | Roche
Personal perspective
“Compliance
“It’s about asking yourself, before making a
decision, if you are doing the right thing.”
is more than
we need additional clarification or help, we can
always call on compliance resources at the regional
a policy—it’s a or global level.
For me, compliance is more than a policy—it’s a
mindset. It’s about asking yourself before making
mindset.” a decision whether it is the right thing to do. That
mindset is now part of our organisation. Since
launching the Compliance Champions initiative,
we are evolving in our compliance journey by
creating an environment where we spend much less
time evaluating potential compliance issues.
Ameya Telang, Finance Director and
We also see the impact with external stakeholders. If
Compliance Officer, Roche Philippines
a doctor asks whether his spouse or partner can attend
a Roche event, for example, we politely decline and
explain the why in terms of our integrity standards.
Integrity: a basis for This strengthens our position as a reputable company.
govern our interactions with doctors, hospital
administrators, patients and many other stakeholders. I believe strongly in what we do for patients at
our business
Roche. In my job, I don’t have a direct influence on
When I took on this job in 2014, there was a need discovering or developing new drugs. But if I can
to deepen understanding of compliance. Healthcare contribute to making our business more sustainable,
I can truly say that I grew up with Roche. My father regulations and our own internal guidelines are I have done something that matters.
worked for this company for more than 35 years. I was evolving rapidly. Sometimes, questions and ambiguities
always impressed with Roche’s values. arise. Our people needed information resources that
were close at hand.
Today, I still believe firmly in Roche’s values in my
work at Roche Philippines. As Finance Director, I am That’s why we established the Compliance Champions
responsible for meeting our objectives. As Compliance in the Philippines. Since every function across
Officer, it is my job to ensure that we sell our products Pharmaceuticals, Diagnostics and Diabetes Care
in an ethical manner. We rely on the science and has a Compliance Champion as a contact person,
clinical data behind our products to convince decision- it is much easier for colleagues to consult them.
makers about their value.
That was a catalyst for change in our organisation.
The pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated. Employees no longer looked at compliance as a separate
Roche goes beyond those regulations to ensure that function, but as a part of their daily work. The internal
employees are compliant with high ethical standards. expertise helped us to illuminate grey areas and become “I work with Compliance Champions from every function to embed
In the area of healthcare, compliance standards more proactive in addressing potential issues. And if proactive thinking in our daily work.”
100 101Roche | Responsible business Responsible business | Roche
Putting patient safety first own distribution channels to combat the Reducing animal testing to a minimum
counterfeiting market and strengthen legislation. Like all research-based healthcare companies, Roche
conducts animal tests as required by regulatory
Continuously improving safety standards The Council of Europe drafted a convention which authorities. If, however, the same test results can be
constitutes, for the first time, a binding international achieved using scientifically acceptable alternatives
instrument in the criminal law field on counterfeiting to animal testing, we will always use these. We invest
of medical products and similar crimes involving significantly in the development of testing methods
threats to public health (MEDICRIME Convention). using computer simulation or isolated cells grown
Ensuring patient safety and the effectiveness of our Roche internal quality and compliance audits on The convention came into effect in January 2016. in a petri dish. In Switzerland, we support the 3R
products is our top priority. We collaborate with a regular basis, ensuring compliance with good Research Foundation which funds the development
regulatory agencies, monitor reports of adverse events manufacturing practice standards. In 2015, approx- In 2010, we initiated a programme at Roche to increase or improvement of methods based on the 3R strategy
experienced by patients, and communicate on our imately 50 inspections were conducted by health security in our supply chain. We are implementing (Replace, Reduce, Refine).
product safety activities. authorities at Roche manufacturing sites. We focus on a number of new technologies, including overt and
proactive corrective and preventive actions to address covert anti-counterfeiting features, 2D barcoding, In 2015, we used 239,539 animals in our internal
Our products have well-characterised benefit-risk non-conformities, and on determining their causes to mass serialisation techniques and tamper-evident research. The number of animals used by contract
profiles which are updated throughout the life of the ensure sustainability of operations. packaging. On completion of the programme, slated research organisations (CROs) working on Roche’s
product. Adverse events are stored in a global data- for 2018, every Roche product, folding box, case and behalf increased to 60,619. Approximately 97% of
base, reviewed by a qualified physician, and reported Our quality system is instrumental in maintaining pallet will have a unique identification.** the animals used were mice and rats. All major sites
promptly to the appropriate regulatory authorities, our right to operate, and in overall successful health were awarded continued full re-accreditation status by
as required. In addition to communicating openly authority inspections and health authority interactions. Defining regulatory frameworks for biosimilars the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of
with regulators and other stakeholders, we require This system also enables the timely approval of In order to ensure the safety of patients, the develop- Laboratory Animal Care International, underscoring
all employees to immediately report any drug safety new products and corresponding successful pre- ment and manufacture of biosimilar monoclonal our commitment to ensuring animal welfare.
or quality issue to the respective safety personnel. All approval inspections. antibodies must be subject to rigourous clinical and
employees have to complete a mandatory programme regulatory standards, as well as post-marketing In 2015, the total number of animals used in research
every year to ensure full awareness about adverse Roche’s Pharma Technical Operations Unit, which pharmacovigilance protections. (Roche and CROs) decreased by 21% vs. 2014
event reporting. is tasked with ensuring the availability of Roche
medicines worldwide, maintains a quality plan which Roche supports the development of regulatory 600,000
When our medicines leave our manufacturing process, is foundational across all operations. The quality frameworks for the introduction of biosimilars, and 500,000
they must meet high-quality standards. Roche’s manual highlights key actions to continually improve is actively engaged in the stakeholder dialogue. Such
400,000
Pharmaceutical Quality Systems and Processes comply our overall quality and compliance standing in frameworks help to ensure a consistent and high level
with ICH* guidelines which are developed through accordance with ICH guidelines. It is routinely shared of public health protection with respect to biosimilars, 300,000
a process of scientific consensus with regulatory and with Roche’s senior management and discussed with whilst protecting the innovation of the originator
200,000
industry experts working side by side. Our quality global health authorities. product. We also firmly believe that regulations
management system is inspected annually by all relating to biosimilars should not impede, but rather 100,000
relevant health authorities worldwide as well as by Fighting counterfeiting globally promote and incentivise innovative research towards
The manufacturing and distribution of counterfeit novel medicines. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
medicines and diagnostic products are criminal CROs Roche
We require employees to immediately
activities and threaten the safety of patients. Roche
collaborates with governments, healthcare professionals,
report any drug safety or quality issue.
regulatory authorities, police, customs services and its
* The International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use. | ** www.roche.com/anti-counterfeiting
102 103Roche | People People | Roche
1 5
in
People
Roche is committed to cultivating a more diverse talent
pipeline across generations, geographies and functional areas
of expertise. It’s a pillar of what makes Roche a great place to
work and an award-winning employer year after year.
key senior positions
are led by people with both established and developing region experience
104 105Roche | People People | Roche
B
eing a science and innovation-driven company, what really
distinguishes Roche is our people. We are committed to providing
the best possible working environment so they can thrive.
At Roche we start from a foundation of respect; Cultivating a more diverse talent pipeline
we passionately believe that a company can perform Diversity and inclusion are vital to foster innovation
to the highest level while maintaining a caring, by encouraging different perspectives, ideas and
respectful working culture. Taking a genuine interest thinking styles. Our business is different across our
in people is a fundamental part of that—if we get that divisions and the world, so we need people who
right, everything else falls into place. understand those differences. An inclusive culture
also helps to encourage, accept and leverage diversity
We continue to focus on fostering a strong and inclusive and helps ensure we do not lose access to internal
leadership culture and on building a more diverse and external talent.
talent pipeline to help our people and our company
excel in an ever-changing business environment. In 2015, we defined what diversity and inclusion
means to us* and formalised the Diversity & Inclusion
Roche has consistently been recognised as one of Practitioners’ Network to ensure that leaders are
the best companies to work for. Some of the honours aligned in the way we bring this commitment to life
awarded to Roche in 2015 include placement on several in the workplace.
‘Great Place to Work’ lists, including the Fortune
100 best companies list, Working Mother magazine’s Developing our future leaders
100 best companies list, and DiversityInc’s 25 most We introduced country-specific employee value
noteworthy companies in 2015. propositions to reflect the most important priorities
of employees in each site across the world. We are
reflecting diversity throughout all aspects of our
business; for example on the observer panels of our
In 2015, we provided global development
high-potential programmes, to ensure there is
diversity among those assessing our future leaders.
programmes for about 3,500 leaders
To address current and future business challenges, we
across the Roche Group.
need inspirational leadership across all aspects of
diversity, including generations, genders, geographies
and functional areas of expertise.
* Diversity refers to a wide range of visible and invisible differences that exist among people. Inclusion refers to proactive behaviours that create
an environment in which all people are actively included.
106 107Roche | People People | Roche
Our Leadership Commitments
I firmly believe that each person
1. I take a genuine interest in people.
at Roche deserves a great leader.
2. I listen carefully, tell the truth, and explain ‘the why.’
Every day I strive to lead by
Taking a genuine interest in people 3. I empower and trust people to make decisions.
example, consistently
4. I discover and develop the potential in people.
Committed to strong leadership
demonstrating our values of
5. I strive for excellence and extraordinary results.
Integrity, Courage and Passion.
6. I set priorities and simplify work.
We are committed to increasing the representation We facilitate international assignments to allow 7. I congratulate people for a job well done.
of key leaders with established and developing region employees to gain that essential experience. Over
experience and providing opportunities for our 1,100 Roche employees were on international assign-
employees to work in different environments. We are ment in 2015. In total, 40% of these assignments
also committed to increasing the representation of are to or from developing regions.
women in key leadership positions. In 2015, we made
progress on this goal, with women now accounting Diversity in Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics accelerated movement of talent, particularly in and in Kiswahili—is a programme for Roche leaders and
for at least 23% of leaders in key leadership positions In the Pharmaceuticals Division, we instigated the out of developing regions. Tanzanian healthcare sector leaders that combines
and, for 40% of management overall. Leadership Acceleration Programme, a new initiative leadership development with social impact (see photo
designed to advance talent for specific developing About 3,500 leaders attended global leadership on page 107).
We have also set targets for our talent scouts to build regions and ensure that our multi-year diversity and development programmes, which include initiatives
external pipelines to increase the representation of inclusion plans are being led by business sponsors such as Leading Leaders@Roche and Leading People@ After significant briefings on market access,
women and people with established and developing across the organisation. Roche. In addition, over 4,000 leaders received 360° compliance and leadership, a group of approximately
region experience (see page 112 for more details). feedback in their reviews (and over 52,000 employees 25 Roche leaders travelled to Tanzania to work in
In the Diagnostics Division, a sponsorship programme have provided 360° feedback for leaders since 2013). partnership with local NGOs to address real healthcare
Women in key leadership positions for women has been running successfully for three challenges in the country, such as improving cervical
years and has now expanded to include high-potential Nearly 90% of Leading@Roche participants reported cancer outcomes. Compared to women in Switzerland,
28%
people* with developing region experience. In this positive change after six months, stating that their women in Tanzania are about 26 times more likely to
23%
21% 22% initiative, members of our senior leadership team daily working practice is more closely aligned with the die of cervical cancer, a disease largely preventable
18% 19%
16% sponsor top talent. Leadership Commitments. What’s more important, through early detection.1
13% over 80% of participants’ managers observed increased
Everyone at Roche deserves a great leader. A strong leadership skills after six months, particularly Our leaders found the experience to be hugely
leadership culture is critical to nurturing an engaging increased self-awareness and leadership rather than impactful, both in terms of growing their leadership
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 work environment where people want to come to management behaviour. skills, but also the team’s ability to identify practical
Women in key leadership positions 2020 goal work and stay longterm.** solutions to address the challenges. To ensure long-
Leading in a changing world term sustainability of the programme and local
We want leaders to understand all aspects of our Fostering a strong leadership culture Successful leaders know they must get out of their impact, participants continue to support our project
key markets; not just business, but compliance, In 2015, we continued to embed our Leadership comfort zone to keep progressing. In 2015, we partners remotely before handing over to the next
governance, people and culture, too. Our experience Commitments within our recruitment, selection, launched a new leadership initiative, which focuses group of Roche leaders.
suggests that it takes at least a year of living and 360° feedback and performance management. We on building that skill set. NJIA—which means ‘path’
working within a country before starting to also continued skill-building programmes for core
understand its culture. competencies, enhanced leadership skills and
* Employees identified as potential leaders. | ** www.roche.com/materiality | 1 World Health Review: www.worldlifeexpectancy.com/world-
health-review/switzerland-vs-tanzania
108 109Roche | People People | Roche
Personal perspective
“We need diverse
“Our people are happier, more engaged
experiences and
in their work, and our productivity has
increased significantly.”
ways of thinking
When I arrived in 2012, my primary task was to
to be successful.” integrate our previously independent research into
the Roche global organisation. Our R&D efforts in
Shanghai focus on infectious diseases, especially the
hepatitis B virus. The integration aligned our strategy
and broadened our pipeline and talents. We now
Stella Xu, PhD, Site Head, Roche
have more structured performance management and
career development processes built on customised
Innovation Center Shanghai
plans. A wide range of trainings help our people
grow professionally and we offer job rotations to
other countries.
A leadership role
time for me to re-acclimate. Even the Chinese As a result of these and other initiatives, employee
language had changed with the internet age. Shanghai engagement scores in our internal survey, known
with impact
is now a high-energy, cosmopolitan city, with a mix of as GEOS, jumped from 36% in 2011 to 82% in 2014.
many cultures. We reflect that diversity at our Roche Our people are happier, more engaged in their work,
Innovation Center. and our productivity has increased significantly.
My role at Roche bridges East and West, science As a leader, it is very motivating to have that kind
and management. I am from Changsha, the capital I am convinced that a purely American, Swiss or of impact.
of Hunan Province. I became interested in science Chinese way won’t produce the best results in the
at an early age and studied biophysics in Beijing. Then immensely complex task of drug development.
I received a full scholarship for a PhD in molecular Beyond gender, ethnicity and nationality, we need
biology and immunology in the US. I remember diverse experiences and ways of thinking to be
boarding the plane with two suitcases and only successful. My background helps me work across
80 dollars in my pocket. cultures and functions. In China, employees are often
reluctant to speak up at meetings and accustomed to
After finishing my degree, I worked as a drug having decisions made for them. I practice inclusive
discovery scientist in the US. Then I became a behaviour by creating a safe environment where there
strategic consultant and joined Roche as a manager are no bad questions. And I encourage people to take
in 2002. I returned to China in 2008 to establish the an active role in finding solutions. I lead a team of over
Roche Partnering Shanghai office, and joined pRED 150 researchers. Being a scientist gives me credibility,
in 2012 as Site Head for the Roche Innovation Center but I cannot be an expert on every subject. I try to
Shanghai. After nearly 20 years abroad, it took some keep the big picture in mind, ask the right questions “For me, communication is key. I often join team members for lunch
and support the teams to perform their best. and listen to their concerns.”
110 111Roche | People People | Roche
Over half of employees were supported
Preparing the workplace of the future Attracting and retaining the best talent
Every ten minutes we hire one candidate based on
in a job-related change in 2015.
67 applications in the Roche Group.* Candidates say
Evolving to meet ever-changing needs they are attracted by our excellent reputation as a
great place to work which is driven by our unique
culture, our strong purpose, our success, excellence from site to site. These may include discounts on
in science and employment benefits, as well as our buying Roche non-voting equity securities, pension
global development opportunities.** schemes, health insurance, childcare, on-site fitness,
We fully support the fact that many people’s aspirations the needs of our whole workforce is essential to medical facilities, flu vaccinations, preventative
change or evolve at different stages in their life and ensure that all individuals feel valued and respected A key focus as we prepare for the workplace of the health screenings, discounts with local retailers and
career and that the business environment changes as and that teams feel the benefits of this vast range of future is finding talent early in their career. transportation to the workplace.
well. Taking into account contract-related changes, perspectives and experiences. From apprenticeship schemes to graduate trainee
over half (57%) of employees were supported in a job- programmes, we launched several new initiatives Our flexible benefit programmes can often be tailored
related change in 2015. Workplace 2020 is an often-used phrase, but the truth to help recruit and identify those with great potential to individuals’ own needs. For example, some sites
is that the future workplace is already here—we at an early stage in their development. In the coming have implemented a flexible benefit programme where
We also provide opportunities for employees to cannot wait until 2020. We are implementing change years, we will focus more extensively on attracting employees can prioritise certain rewards, such as
experience a different role within the company for now, offering a wide range of attractive benefits for and developing these talents. pension or a company car, over others.
up to three months. It is purposely a non-formalised all generations, including a flexible work environment
arrangement with no conditions of entry, allowing in many countries and state-of-the-art technology in We have a proactive in-house approach to recruitment We are now in the second year of the ‘Applause’
employees to gauge their interest in other spaces of our business areas. with a globally aligned group of internal talent scouts programme, an online tool with which employees
the business. who are fully committed to Roche, focusing on can recognise each other directly, through e-cards
The focus is to reflect the increasing mobility of building external pipelines to meet future needs, or reward point nominations. Overall usage was
Preparing now for the workplace of the future our staff in providing access to the Roche work covering gaps in prioritised succession planning roles up by over 10% in 2015, with about 223,000 peer-
Over the next ten years, as many as 75% of our environment from anywhere, anytime and with any and supporting difficult-to-hire current roles. This to-peer recognitions among our employees.
employees will be ‘Millennials;’ people who today are device. This builds on our Common HR Information approach has significantly contributed to reducing
in their early 20s to mid-30s. For the first time, we will Solution (CHRIS), which connects all employees, line the dependency on external recruitment agencies. Easy access to individual benefits
also have up to five generations in the workforce, with managers and HR professionals within Roche and In 2015, we also expanded the availability of the
similar and sometimes different needs. Understanding offers a broad set of self-services. A continuous key target for Roche is to further improve TotalReward Statement, an online self-service
the entire candidate experience. We are undertaking allowing employees to see a full overview of all
significant improvements to increase the ease of their compensation and benefits. This is a unique
application, and we are reviewing the entire candidate online resource, packaging our employees’
People: five-year goals experience pre- and post-application to ensure all individual tailored benefits together.
December 2014 baseline candidates find the process straightforward, respectful
and welcoming. This service is available for a total of 49,800 employees
in Switzerland, Germany and the US, with China
30% 30% Top quartile
Rewarding and recognising our employees about to go live and several other countries to follow
We try to strike a balance between a highly competitive in 2016 through a self-service solution. So far it has
base salary and performance-linked rewards. There a 70% view rate among employees.
increase in the representation of increase in the representation ranking in overall employee are also numerous benefits for employees that vary
women in key leadership roles of people with established and engagement score, measured by the
developing region experience in Global Employee Opinion Survey
* Calculation based on 220 working days per year and eight-hour working days. | ** www.roche.com/employees
key leadership roles
112 113Roche | Environment and community Environment and community | Roche
Env ironme nt and
15
Community
%
Our aim is to minimise our ecological footprint and to
increase the use of renewable resources whilst continuing
to expand our global business. We also seek to support local
communities through long-lasting partnerships.
su stainable e ne rg y
on track with our 2020 goal of 20% sustainable energy consumption
114 115Roche | Environment and community Environment and community | Roche
W
e continued to improve our environmental performance,
with significant progress in improving our energy
efficiency.
Safety, Security, Health and Environmental Protection identify areas for improvement and recommend
(SHE) forms a central part of our operations and is an changes. Using a database of SHE best practices, our
important component of sustainability.* We approach employees frequently share knowledge and exchange
it with the same commitment as any business-related new ideas. We conduct regular training sessions,
activity, striving for continuous improvement wherever regional conferences and workshops and provide
possible. We monitor our performance** regularly online tools in local languages to help employees
to ensure compliance with our high standards and foster engagement and responsibility. In 2015, about
objectives, and ensure that our processes and equipment 79,000 employees participated in approximately
are state-of-the-art. Importantly, we devote special 227,000 hours of SHE training, an average of
attention to prevention, which is key to effective SHE 2.87 hours per employee.
management. In 2015, several Roche sites invested in
a state-of-the-art and energy-efficient infrastructure. Ensuring compliance and fostering improvements
These investments allow us to reduce our environ- Our policy is to audit our chemical, pharmaceutical
mental footprint and reduce costs. and diagnostic manufacturing facilities periodically
with increasing frequency according to existing risks.
Improving and monitoring our performance Within Roche, Group SHE performed 33 audits in
As a company with global production operations, Roche 2015. These audits assess SHE performance against
is exposed to risks that could possibly damage people, legal compliance and internal standards and stipulate
goods, the environment or our reputation. Audits, future improvements. Plant management and local
consulting, training on environmental protection and SHE officers conduct more frequent checks and
occupational health and safety, as well as professional inspections to assess compliance with SHE standards.
risk management, minimise these risks. In Safety, We expect contract manufacturers, suppliers and
Health and Environmental protection we employ 651 service providers to meet the same standards as we
people worldwide and 491 people in Security. Expert do. To ensure compliance, we or third-party auditors
teams at each Roche site identify risks and develop managed by us inspect the operations of our suppliers
mitigation plans. They communicate policy and and make recommendations for improvement. In the
guidelines to employees and other stakeholders and event of non-compliance, we may either terminate a
motivate them to implement the necessary measures. contract, refuse to renew it, or ask for improvements,
The effectiveness of our SHE management system is which we sometimes actively support.
reviewed frequently, with employees encouraged to
* www.roche.com/environment | ** We measure our performance based on a set of key performance indicators (KPIs) and aim to reach at
least 95% of each KPI. www.roche.com/our_she_goals_and_performance
116 117Roche | Environment and community Environment and community | Roche
In addition to spending CHF 296.3 million for Occupational health and safety employees and others who handle our substances. Travel Tracking tool to identify and assist Roche
environmental purposes, our investments and Safety is one of our top priorities. We believe that To define the necessary measures, we need to know business travellers in case of an emergency during
operating cost for safety and security totalled no job is so urgent or routine that it cannot be done the potency/toxicity of each substance and the level their trip. The new tool will be operational from 2016.
CHF 321.4 million. safely. Our primary objective is to keep the Roche of exposure caused by each operation. Over the years,
Accident Rate (RAR), the number of working days Roche has assessed and established levels of acceptable A second security focus in 2015 was set by the
Managing material SHE topics lost due to occupational accidents per employee per exposure for 1,500 substances. Exposure levels are Asia/Africa Security Workshop held in Shanghai.
We are constantly aware of material SHE issues. We year, and the Lost Time Accident Rate (LTAR), the determined systematically to ensure that they do not Site security officers from all Asian sites and from
regularly gather information concerning SHE-related number of accidents which caused absence from exceed the established standards. Protection from selected African affiliates discussed challenges and
risks and opportunities from Roche affiliates as well work per 200,000 worked hours, as low as possible. overexposure must be ensured by engineering controls. good practice on three key topics for the regions:
as consult with and listen to our stakeholder groups. We are continually improving our occupational New processes are designed to fulfil this criterion, and prevention of and response to counterfeiting of our
We also match the stakeholder issues with our health and safety measures. We have set feasible existing ones have been modified to a very large extent products, information security including risks to our
internal strategic priorities and risks framework to but ambitious goals and have established health and to meet the most current standards of containment. intellectual property and measures to protect it, and
produce our materiality matrix. We have thus been safety committees at virtually all Roche sites engaged training in adequate security measures for small
able to identify material topics which stand out as in technical activities and at many other sites Fire and process safety affiliates. A new Group directive was also issued to
areas of interest to Group SHE and its stakeholders. according to risk levels. The already well-established fire safety surveys give guidance on conducting security investigations
Such topics are actively managed by Group SHE and performed in the US have been extended, and related to confirmed criminal activities against Roche
include, but are not limited to climate change, energy Our ten-year goal is to keep the RAR <0.06 and the additional sites have been surveyed. These surveys products—counterfeiting, diversion and theft.
and resources, occupational and mental health and LTAR <0.5 by 2020. In 2015, we introduced a new goal are carried out by members of the insurance group,
water. Roche considers these and other material issues to reduce the number of vehicle collisions per million SHE, and a professional third-party fire engineer. The Employee health and safety
in order to strengthen its environmental strategy. kilometres by 10% over the next five years. In 2015, implementation of the recommendations is followed
By knowing our material issues and what goals we we reached our five-year objective of keeping the RAR up through the SHE auditing system. New projects 0.018 0.016 0.024
0.014
want to achieve, we have been able to develop a clear <0.07 and the LTAR <0.6. As our accident rate is now requiring fire protection installations benefit from the
and defined process to create progress through target- so low, a single accident, resulting in a longer absence, professional fire engineering know-how available.
setting and initiating action plans. Mid-term targets can lead to fluctuations in the RAR key figure. Our Roche has established a Process Safety network for its 0.072
0.068
0.066
have been set for 2015–2020. The new goals are occupational accident profile remains consistent with chemical production sites, which meets regularly to 0.052
feasible but challenging in the areas of people, slips, trips, falls and repetitive strains representing the work through common issues of concern, share best
environment and business. They also reflect several majority of work-related incidents in 2015. practice and recommend improvements. A similar 0.585
0.423 0.435 0.450
of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals adopted by network for the pharmaceutical solids formulation sites
the United Nations (see page 94 for more details). Prevention of overexposure to substances is a has been initiated, and a powder handling workshop
cornerstone of the protection of the health of Roche’s for the Solids Formulation Managers and SHE officers 440 373 393
352
has been held. A Process Safety Management Directive
has been developed and issued.
SHE: Five-year goals 6,036 6,324 6,396
4,976
based on 2015 figures Security
Protecting our employees, physical assets, critical
information and the integrity of our brands and 2012 2013 2014 2015
–10% –15% –10% –10%
products are principal concerns of Roche. Preventative Illness rate Accident rate
measures are a priority in all aspects of security. One Lost-time accident rate Number of work-related accidents
focus in 2015 was the implementation of a Global Working days lost per year due to accidents
Eco-balance* Energy consumption** Water consumption General waste
* 2014–2019 | ** 2015–2025
118 119Roche | Environment and community Environment and community | Roche
9.0%
Emissions to water 7.7 %
Primary energy
68.9 %
Roche 5.3 %
Emissions to air
eco-balance
2015 Landfilled waste
7.6 %
Conducting operations in a sustainable way
1.5 %
Water consumption
Leveraging modern technologies
Noise
Research and pharmaceutical and diagnostic Competition triggers significant improvements
manufacturing are dependent on natural resources, In line with our sustainability strategy, we give our
which are becoming increasingly scarce. As part of internal stakeholders the opportunity to contribute
our commitment toward sustainable development, ideas and suggestions for improving our sustainability Eco-balance: a holistic way to measure impact emissions to air, contributed to this positive effect,
we proactively seek to employ new, more sustainable culture and performance. This also raises awareness From the consumption of energy and resources despite an increased number of employees.
technologies and processes and to minimise our of environmental protection and encourages sustain- to emissions of by-products and waste from our
impact on the environment. The less Roche depends ability by identifying cost savings from environmental business activities, we impact the environment in many Today, a large proportion of the energy used by Roche
on non-renewable resources, the less vulnerable it is protection activities. ECOmpetition submissions have different ways. We measure our total impact using the comes from fossil fuels: non-renewable and depleting
to supply constraints and volatile market prices. resulted in significant improvements in a variety of eco-balance metric, which is a point system allocated sources such as oil and natural gas. As a result, we
areas, including energy conservation, waste reduction, to ecologically relevant parameters. Developed by the produce greenhouse gases (GHG), mainly CO , and
2
We are proud that our sustainable development decreased consumption of water and raw materials, Swiss Federal Office for the Environment, we are other waste products that contribute to climate change
achievements were recognised externally in 2015. and reduced air pollution. compliant with their latest guidelines.1 This metric and air pollution. Our aim is to maximise efficient
The Dow Jones Sustainability Indices ranked Roche provides us with a global view of how we are impacting energy usage and to increase the use of sustainable
industry leader in the Environmental Category, with About 200 winning suggestions have generated the Earth’s eco-systems. These points are added up energy whilst continuing to expand our global business.
high marks for our climate strategy, environment monetary savings of more than CHF 5 million since and then related to the total number of employees,
policy, management, reporting and operational eco- the start of the programme in 1995. This estimation which enables us to monitor our environmental Share of sustainable energy actual data and goal for 2020
efficiency. Our efforts were also noticed by Newsweek is based on the size of the initiatives and their year- impact per employee. Our strategic five-year goal is
—ranking Roche the 9th greenest company in the on-year cost saving potential. to reduce our eco-balance by 10% by 2019. This allows 91.0% 90.2% 87.1% 85.0% 80.0%
world’s 500 largest publicly-traded companies (by local site management the freedom to develop locally
market capitalisation). Improving energy efficiency appropriate strategies and objectives for reducing their 20.0%
We set up energy-saving action plans across environmental impact. 15.0%
12.9%
At a local level, the Latvian Sustainability Index 2015, our sites. They include the implementation of 9.0% 9.8%
organised by the Institute for Corporate Sustainability innovative technologies and continuous upgrading In 2015, our eco-balance comprised 68.9% of
and Responsibility, gave Roche the Silver award. Roche of infrastructure to improve energy efficiency. We emissions to air, of which 83.6% was CO . Compared
2
2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 Goal
Uruguay was also recognised in 2015 for its efforts in purchase energy-efficient equipment, including hybrid to 2014, our total environmental impact per employee
creating a sustainable working environment. It was cars, and we review employee travel needs. We also decreased by 3.6%. Non-sustainable Sustainable
awarded a Silver LEED Certification* for sustainable change work processes, which is a complex task in
design under the LEED Commercial Interiors Rating highly regulated facilities. We are also working on a Our efforts in optimising energy consumption and
System. The focus was on its efficient use of water and steady transition to using sustainable energy. Since reducing the volume of consumed water, as well as
energy and their use of LEED-certified, recycled and/ 2010, a total of 1,063 projects have been completed and
or energy-efficient materials and equipment. yield a reduction of approximately 127,000 tonnes of
CO emissions and an estimated cost saving of * LEED: Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, one of the most popular green building certification programmes. | 1 Swiss Eco-
2
CHF 27.6 million per year. Factors, Ecological Scarcity Method, 2013.
120 121Roche | Environment and community Environment and community | Roche
2.0 %
34.1 %
Oil
Natural gas
7.8 %
Car fleet
21.3 % Energy use
by type 29.9 %
Air travel
Reducing our energy intensity Grid electricity
0.9 % 4.0 %
Replacing fossil by renewable energy
Waste District heating
We have recently set a ten-year goal (2015–2025) to consumption and a 21.1% increase in sustainable
reduce energy intensity (gigajoule/employee) within energy use. In absolute terms, energy consumption
our own facilities (scope 1) and purchased energy from business flights slightly increased. However, the
consumed by us (scope 2) by 15%. By about 2050, we flown km per headcount remained stable. Thanks to assessment and valuation of impacts and dependencies organisation, including new buildings inaugurated
expect to reduce energy consumption per employee by increasing employee awareness, more and more video at the company’s six operational sites in Switzerland. in 2015 in South San Francisco and in Basel.
approximately 50%, compared to 2005 baseline levels. conferencing tools are being used, helping to stabilise A key objective is to determine how the approach
Additionally, we plan to increase the proportion of business-related travel. adds value in comparison to the existing methodology Genentech’s newest building in South San Francisco
sustainable energy used to 20% by 2020. In absolute we use. was designed to provide optimal working conditions,
terms, energy consumption increased in 2015 by 4%. Videoconferencing as an alternative to business travel to operate on 29% less energy than the US standard
This was due to remediation activities at our Nutley Sustainability—a key parameter for new office buildings, and to receive the LEED
4,180 4,278
site as well as an increased production and headcount. 3,818 3,955 Within the framework of Roche’s energy-efficient gold certification (see page 117). The project is a
Sales grew 5%,* thus decoupling energy consumption buildings, we focus on criteria such as ‘highly reflection of dual efforts by Genentech and energy
from the growth of business. Our energy-saving functional’ and ‘highly sustainable,’ as well as high- efficiency experts at the nearby Lawrence Berkeley
activities resulted in a 4.2% decrease in car fuel 16,707 16,494 15,870 15,926 quality urban design and architecture. Roche brings FLEXLAB Laboratory. FLEXLAB is a test bed that
together a vast array of practices, techniques and assesses and optimises building operation under
Energy consumption terajoules skills to keep energy consumption to a minimum. real-world conditions, testing various configurations
2012 2013 2014 2015
Measures which reduce operating energy (heating of walls, windows, lighting, shading, heating,
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Usage of videoconferencing, in hours and power for equipment) are integrated throughout ventilation and air conditioning.
Total (scope 1 Flown km/headcount the conceptual phase and through to the finished
and scope 2) 10,607 10,297 10,808 10,778 11,109 structure. To reduce operating energy consumption, In Basel, the new data centre opened in 2015 is
Energy Natural capital the buildings are designed so that air leakage through expected to consume 25% less energy than average
(scope 1 and 2) We are one of ten multinational companies currently the building is reduced. This also includes high- new European data centres. Roche Basel’s newest
consumption conducting a detailed pilot test to inform the develop- performance windows and extra insulation in walls, building, a high-rise inaugurated in September
(GJ/employee)** 105 108 118 128 136 ment of a new Natural Capital Protocol which aims to ceilings and floors. In addition, effective window 2015, is earthquake-resistant, highly functional and
Scope 3 be an internationally agreed harmonised approach for placement can provide more natural light and reduce sustainable. The top-quality workspaces and flexible
Business flights 2,876 2,672 2,661 2,502 2,262 businesses to systematically take into account the the need for electric lighting during the day. This layout allow for approximately 2,000 employees.
Energy-intensive 277 – – – – monetary value of their environmental impacts and approach is applied for new facilities across our global
utilities *** dependencies within their decision-making and/or
reporting. The pilot assessment has begun to explore
** Data collected by Group SHE.
*** C ompressed air and liquid nitrogen. our overall relationship with the environment along
its value chain. In addition, it involves a more detailed
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (average 2014).
122 123Roche | Environment and community Environment and community | Roche
Personal perspective
“Contributing to
“It’s a great feeling to look up at this
Building 1 was a
building and know that I had a part in
its realisation.”
once-in-a-lifetime
water, which remains at a constant temperature
opportunity.” of 15 degrees Celsius is used to cool the building
in summer.
The third pillar is energy-efficient operations.
Sensors at each workstation detect when no
Markus Wöllner,
one is present and turn off lights and ventilation
automatically. There is a monitoring system for the
Senior Technical Project Manager
whole building to track energy usage. Employees
are encouraged to ‘think green’ in terms of reducing
their environmental footprint.
A high standard for
inauguration ceremony was held on 18 September In my profession, constructing something of this
2015. This was only possible with passion and magnitude is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
sustainability
teamwork. I am particularly proud of Building 1 And in view of our site development plans, I look
in terms of its sustainability, and especially its forward to building on this great experience and
energy efficiency, which was a top priority for our taking on a role with even more responsibility in
During my 24 years as an engineer and project senior management. our new projects.
manager at Roche, I have taken on increasing levels
of responsibility. Roche’s new high-rise office building The first pillar of sustainability is minimising energy
in Basel, Building 1-with a height of 178 metres and use. We have installed 10,000 LED lights that are even
41 floors-was the biggest challenge ever. 60% more efficient than high-efficiency fluorescent
lamps. Our LEDs only need to be changed every
My team and I were responsible for all technical 20 years on average. This significantly reduces
installations of the building and its automation. operating expenses and waste. Another example of
minimising energy use is the innovative façade of the
In terms of mindset, it’s sometimes helpful that building. Triple thermal panes combined with a closed
I am a marathon runner, as this project lasted almost cavity of air and integrated sunscreens reduce glare
seven years from project initiation to inauguration. and help to insulate the interior from heat and cold.
During the final phase, there were some tough
stretches when we had to quicken the pace to meet The second pillar is using sustainable sources of
our deadlines. All of us put in long hours and worked energy. Building 1 is heated by waste heat generated “Not only are the 10,000 LED lights 60% more efficient than
hard with colleagues to resolve problems. And we by manufacturing on our site in Basel. Ground fluorescent lights, they also create a unique design element.”
finished the project on time and on budget. The
124 125Roche | Environment and community Environment and community | Roche
Limiting our air emissions Indianapolis and Branchburg, which switched to a refrigeration and fire suppression suppliers to
sustainable source, i.e. wind power, for their scope 2 achieve these reductions.
energy. In doing so they saved 40,407 tonnes of CO .
2
Increased energy efficiency to reduce CO CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) achievements
2 Halogenated hydrocarbons tonnes*** In 2015, Roche was identified as a global leader
for its actions and strategies in response to climate
2015 2014 2013 2012 change and was awarded a position on The Global
Inventory 154.6 167.3 176.4 172.1 Climate ‘A’ List by CDP, the international not-for-
As our business, and therefore production, continues As the majority of our GHG emissions originate Consumed 1.8 2.6 3.7 2.6 profit organisation that drives sustainable economies.
to grow, we are committed to maintaining the low from the transformation and use of energy, our goal Furthermore, Roche obtained a disclosure score of
*** Global inventory including Chugai, Genentech and Ventana.
level of air emissions we have achieved to date. Our for improving energy efficiency also applies to GHG 100 and was, therefore, also identified as a leader in
emissions strategy prescribes continuous improvement emissions; that is a 15% reduction in scope 1 and Another initiative to reduce GHG emissions is the DACH region (Germany, Austria, Switzerland)
at our manufacturing sites. This includes using flue scope 2 GHGs per employee over a ten-year period. reducing our use of halogenated substances that are for the quality of climate change-related information
gas scrubbers to reduce nitrogen oxides and sulphur We do not favour the use of carbon offset (purchasing used for refrigeration and/or fire suppression and for the third successive year. Roche was therefore
dioxide, and various incineration and freezing so-called CO certificates to compensate for our can remain in the atmosphere for a long period of awarded a position on the DACH Climate Disclosure
2
processes to reduce the release of volatile organic emissions) as an alternative to driving our own efforts time. We planned to reduce halogenated substances by Leadership Index.
compounds (VOCs), which may also reduce energy to reduce emissions. In 2015, 42.5% of our GHG 90% (from 2002 baseline) at all Roche legacy sites by
use. Our emissions to air from VOCs decreased by emissions originated from within our own facilities 2015. This excludes acquisitions (including Genentech The disclosure score confirms that we understand
3.3%, and from nitrogen oxides by 10.2%, while (scope 1) and amounted to 384,421 tonnes. Scope 2 and Ventana), which are working towards their own the business issues related to climate change and are
particulates remained unchanged. Sulphur dioxide GHG emissions made up 35.0% of the total. Our timelines (2018/2022). With great efforts we managed incorporating climate-related risks and opportunities
increased by 120%, mainly due to improved readings combined scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions were cut to achieve a 89.8% reduction and we have now set a into our core business. Roche’s performance score
at our Ventana site. Emissions to air from our sites by 5.0% in 2015. This reduction was achieved by new goal to further reduce halogenated substances signals that we are measuring, verifying and managing
are at very low levels, which means that new processes implementing energy-saving measures and reducing by 20% at Roche legacy sites over the next five years. our carbon footprint.
or activities, as well as the timing of sampling, can the amount of fuel we use to heat, cool and operate We continue to examine alternatives and work with
result in fluctuations as seen in the past few years. our sites. The major contributors to this success were
CO -equivalent emissions metric tonnes
2
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Scope 1 379,457 356,348 396,588 388,061 419,306
Halogenated hydrocarbons 4,964 6,234 6,548 6,014 7,092
Scope 2 317,183 376,159 418,214 432,103 443,583
Total (Scope 1 and scope 2) 701,604 738,741 821,350 826,178 869,981
Total per employee* 6.97 7.77 8.95 9.82 10.69
Scope 3
Business flights 204,179 189,714 188,924 177,678 160,632
Energy-intensive utilities** 20,064 – – – –
* Data collected by Group SHE. | ** Compressed air and liquid nitrogen.
126 127Roche | Environment and community Environment and community | Roche
Managing limited water resources
Reduce, recycle and purify
Wastewater released from our water treatment plants meets the requirements for release into rivers or lakes.
For the pharmaceutical industry globally, poor- delivered to an on-site treatment plant, where it is
quality water is resulting in higher costs for purification treated biologically under anaerobic conditions.
By pre-treating wastewater and reducing
and greater risk of product contamination. Almost This produces biogas with a mean methane content of are already high. We seek to minimise further
all chemical, biotech, pharmaceutical and diagnostics 72%, which is desulphurised and burnt in a combined contamination of water by:
discharges, we minimise contamination
manufacturing processes involve water as a reagent, heat and power unit plant to produce electricity and • Reducing discharges of toxic and poorly
solvent, cleaning and cooling agent. We also use water heat. Annually, it generates electricity with a value of biodegradable substances and heavy metals
of water.
as an energy carrier in heating and refrigeration EUR 350,000. The heat by-product is then used to • Reducing the generation of wastewater
installations. heat four buildings with energy worth EUR 120,000 • Treating or pre-treating wastewater, with ozone
per year. Additionally, external combustion and in some cases, for non- or poorly-degradable
Our 2015–2020 water goal is to reduce consumption transportation of aqueous solvent mixtures are avoided, contaminants. related issues can affect our reputation and investors
per employee by 10%, weighted according to the saving another EUR 60,000 per year. Generation of are increasingly showing interest in our water policy
water stress for a respective region. Roche sites are electricity from sources other than fossil fuels reduces Our water usage has remained relatively unchanged and performance.
either working on or implementing programmes to our CO emissions, and, importantly, as the process over the past years. In 2015, we withdrew
2
reduce water consumption and recycle or reuse produces more energy than is needed to run the plant, 18.9 million m3 of water from different sources. Of Water usage and discharge
water. For example, in 2015 Roche Basel invested in it changes water treatment from an energy user to this, approximately 18.5% was consumed, becoming
technology to save water and money. Many chemical an energy producer. Treated wastewater meets all a constituent part of a product, being vaporised in 2015 2014 2013 2012
reactions require cooling as they are performed at high respective requirements and can be discharged into the refrigeration or air conditioning plants, used for Water withdrawn
temperatures. Conventional laboratory condensers local river. We also support global efforts to promote irrigation, or being discharged to salt or brackish (million cubic metres) 18.9 18.4 19.7 19.8
are attached directly to a cold water tap, consuming water protection. We aim to reduce total wastewater waters and thus lost as fresh water. Approximately Water consumed
about 2.5 litres of water per minute. At an average toxicity in selected production plants by 10% by 2020 45% of the water that we discharged, which includes (million cubic metres) 3.5 3.0 3.5 3.0
price of CHF 2.40 per m3, the costs of the water used from a 2015 baseline. chemically contaminated water, was sent to its final Wastewater discharged
for synthesis would come to CHF 2,160 per condenser destination via treatment plants. This increase over to treatment plant
and year. Using air as a coolant instead for multiple Approximately half of the water we draw is used in 2014 was due to an increase in sites reporting this (million cubic metres) 7.8 5.8 5.4 5.6
reactions running at the same time adds up to cooling circuits. Although this water is not chemically parameter. In addition, 160 kg of heavy metals were Organic matter
considerable savings. Using this new technology contaminated, we analyse it before directly discharging discharged from our operations into waterways. discharged to waterways
also reduces risks: water supplies can become it. Furthermore, we only discharge wastewater and after treatment (tonnes) 190 141 144 140
disconnected or spring a leak, and this can very pollutants if they comply fully with relevant regulations, The demand for fresh water is increasing and an Heavy metals discharged
quickly flood the laboratory. including pre-treatment requirements. We record total effective water management is crucial to avoid water to waterways after
organic carbon (TOC) in discharged water following scarcity. We have procedures in place which ensure treatment (kilogrammes) 160 236 178 374
Roche Penzberg has earned several awards for processing in a wastewater treatment plant. At efficient water use and business continuity. Water-
innovation and environmental responsibility for its approximately 90%, measured as TOC reduction, the
self-powered, high-efficiency wastewater treatment elimination rates in our wastewater treatment plants
plant. Wastewater from the site is collected and
128 129Roche | Environment and community Environment and community | Roche
Waste management Waste tonnes sends any non-recyclable waste (approximately 5%
of the site’s total) to a waste-to-energy plant, thereby
2015 2014 2013 2012 ensuring that value is recovered from 100% of the
Minimising waste & maximising recycling General waste site’s waste and that none is sent to landfill.
generated 26,314 16,730 13,445 13,791
Chemical waste Roche is also acting on concerns about the impact of
generated 25,742 27,142 30,843 25,703 pharmaceuticals on the environment by considering
Construction waste 8,223 15,064 8,618 12,555 the entire lifecycle of its products. There are two goals:
Roche strives to implement the following strategy in After two years of planning, remediation in the first to safeguard the eco-system; and secondly, to
its activities—avoid, reduce, reuse, recycle, thermally Kesslergrube landfill in Grenzach began in Our Louisville distribution facility is the first protect our business against potential long-term
destroy. We permit landfilling only as a last resort September 2015, with the construction of the Genentech site to achieve zero waste to landfill. Over financial and reputational risks.
and, even then, only for inert materials such as slag or necessary infrastructure including a bypass road the last few years, the site has disposed of increasing
incineration ash. Depending on the availability of and a temporary ship-landing dock. Excavation of volumes of cold-chain pallet shipping containers, MabThera/Rituxan, Avastin, Herceptin and Lucentis
suitable local waste-treatment plants, we may dispose the contaminated soil should start in 2016. With containing a mixture of cardboard, styrofoam, water- are some of our monoclonal antibodies, together
of non-hazardous general waste in authorised landfills. careful planning and a step-by-step approach, Roche filled cold packs and wood pallets. To address this generating more than CHF 21 billion sales in 2015.
Roche does not accept landfilling of chemical waste or ensures safe and efficient execution of a complex challenge, the site implemented a comprehensive They have a low excretion rate and are judged by
other hazardous materials. remediation programme, keeping emissions to a recycling process, diverting cardboard, wood, plastics respective authorities to present no significant risk to
minimum. Close dialogue is maintained with the and styrofoam, which previously took up 80% of the sewage works and surface waters. They are therefore
In 2015, we set new goals for general and chemical local residents. landfill volume. With the facility now delivering the termed ‘benign in nature’ and constitute environment-
waste reduction: shipping containers to recyclers, approximately 50% of ally sustainable compounds.
• Reduce general waste per employee by 10% over Roche produces relatively low volumes of chemicals the shipping containers go to a vocational programme
a five-year period and thus generates small quantities of chemical employing adults with special needs to disassemble To encourage green chemistry, we have set up a
• Reduce landfilling of organic chemicals by 50% waste. We nevertheless continue to reduce already and recycle the various materials. technical working group with presence in the US
over a five-year period. low volumes of waste as our production of biotech and in Europe. The group is dedicated to developing
We accept responsibility for all waste generated at products increases and our chemical-based production Currently this programme receives approximately and implementing best practices to promote green
our operations, including that previously deposited declines. In 2015, Roche generated 25,742 tonnes USD 10,000 through these activities. The financial chemistry throughout Roche and Genentech.
at our sites or landfills. of chemical waste. General waste (incinerated and value of the recyclable materials is re-invested to Furthermore, the Roche Environmental Awareness
landfilled) increased by 57.3%. This was largely due to provide employment to people with disabilities. in Chemical Technology (REACT) Award is given
In 2015, we continued with our remediation demolition and clean-up activities at our Nutley site, Louisville is working with the vocational programme annually to employees who demonstrate any of a
programmes. Activities to cleanup soils at our which made up 55.1% of the 26,314 tonnes generated. to enhance the work stream to process 100% of the number of environmentally friendly approaches to
former site in Nutley were completed by year-end. Construction and demolition waste comprised a shipping containers. Having maximised the recycling chemical synthesis.
Cleanup of groundwater is underway but will take further 8,223 tonnes, where our sites in South San of the various site waste streams, the Louisville site
several years to complete. We plan to divest the Francisco and Grenzach were the main contributors.
property in 2016 but will retain responsibility for the
environmental cleanup post divestment. Roche’s
remediation project at Nutley is a clear commitment
to the long-term value of the site in the community.
130 131Roche | Environment and community Environment and community | Roche
19,000 employees raised funds to give
Partnering to support local communities There was record participation in 2015, with
19,000 employees from more than 130 sites, raising
children around the world a better life.
approximately CHF 1.3 million. The majority of these
Our philanthropic engagement funds will be used to provide children in Malawi with
education, school supplies, water and sanitation.
Roche’s commitment to Malawi spans over 12 years Roche has worked with the school to create a wellbeing
and has helped to support over 17,000 children in their programme offering education on topics such as HIV/
education. The remaining funds collected through the AIDS prevention, healthy lifestyle management and
Roche is committed to sustainable philanthropic Five years after widespread flooding in Pakistan, Children’s Walk are used to support different children’s personal finance skills.
activities, which span community involvement, Roche helped to open a new primary school in programmes in more than 90 local communities
humanitarian projects, science, education, art and Jacobabad, a city which was particularly hard-hit. where Roche operates around the world. Another important initiative was from the Genentech
culture. Our goal is to establish long-term Roche helped to build, equip and operate the school Foundation, which provides support to the Eastside
partnerships by focusing on projects that add in collaboration with The Citizens Foundation, a Roche also supports several initiatives which College Preparatory School in Palo Alto, California.
lasting value to society.* local non-profit organisation focusing on improving provide accessible high-quality, holistic education to Its goal is to make quality education available to
education. Of the 131 students who have already disenfranchised young adults. One such programme children living in difficult neighbourhoods. In 2015,
Responding to natural disasters enrolled, over 30% are girls. The school aims to is with the innovative Maharishi Institute in South for the 16th year in a row, every Eastside graduate
Following natural disasters, Roche works with local increase this to 50% to support education equality Africa, which provides free tertiary education to young has gone on to a four-year college.
partners to provide immediate support with essential in the country. people who have experienced particular hardship.
donations of medicines and long-term support to
help communities re-build. Another important initiative in this reporting year
was disaster relief following the floods in Malawi
In 2015, Nepal was struck by a devastating earthquake, in January 2015. According to the United Nations
killing or injuring thousands and displacing millions. Children’s Fund, over 600,000 people were affected.
In response, Roche donated over 180,000 vials of Roche made a financial donation to support disaster
Rocephin, an antibiotic which treats a wide range of relief efforts, which included distribution of mosquito Roche made a financial donation to support disaster relief efforts in Malawi, which included distribution of mosquito nets.
infectious diseases and the most serious forms of nets to protect displaced people from malaria and
tuberculosis and meningitis. Roche India used its other diseases.
local stock to provide immediate help. Additionally,
Chugai donated JPY 3 million to ‘Japan Platform,’ Supporting education
an emergency aid organisation. Roche has a long-standing philanthropic commitment
in Malawi, Southeast Africa. Since 2003, we have
supported education programmes for HIV/AIDS-
After a natural disaster, Roche reacts
orphaned children there. Each year, employees get
involved by raising money and participating in the
to immediate needs and provides
Roche Children’s Walk.**
sustainable help.
* www.roche.com/philanthropy | ** www.roche.com/childrenswalk
132 133Roche | Environment and community Environment and community | Roche
The next generation of scientists
Helping students unleash their potential
Genentech employee volunteers serve as coaches and as mentors in a weekly tutoring programme.
As a research-based healthcare company, science communicate the results through a scientific report
and technology are at the core of what we do and we and a poster in English. In the final round, the ten
have supported multiple programmes to promote an best-performing classes are invited to a special event at ‘Helix Cup’ is an annual science competition that ‘Helix Cup’ is part of Genentech’s Futurelab
interest in these disciplines among young people for Roche in Basel to give an innovative, live presentation focuses on the real-world challenges associated programme, a multi-year partnership with the SSFUSD.
many years now. At the same time, we seek to inform of their results and experiences. The class with the with delivering healthcare and medicine where it is The programme involves major commitments, including
them about educational and career opportunities in most creative, imaginative and convincing presentation needed. Each challenge gives students an opportunity the construction of a USD 6 million, stand-alone
these areas. is selected by an expert jury and awarded a science to deepen their understanding of key concepts in biotech teaching facility on the SSF High School
week abroad. science through an engaging format that also helps campus, slated to break ground in 2016. It also includes
By building a foundation for science and technology, develop skills such as creativity, problem-solving the creation of a state-approved high school biotech
providing real-world science skills and enabling In 2015, 28 classes participated in the programme and teamwork. curriculum, and college scholarships for promising
continued education and careers in biotech, we hope to and the top ten travelled to Basel to display their students pursuing degrees in science, technology,
help grow the next generation of innovators. ‘Science scientific knowledge, enthusiasm and creativity. The In 2015, 650 students participated in the ‘Helix Cup,’ engineering and math fields.
on the Move’ and the ‘Helix Cup,’ projects conducted winners, Class 4G from Kantonsschule Zug, received designing solutions to potential barriers such as
in Switzerland and the US respectively, are leading a week-long science trip to the UK, where they visited delivering medicines to remote areas and keeping In addition to serving as coaches, employees acted
examples of our efforts to support young scientists. the Roche UK site for a creativity workshop with medicine cool during delivery. After three rounds as mentors in a weekly tutoring programme for
local science students, attended lectures at the London of competitive challenges, top teams from each elementary school students, as advisors to SSFUSD
Experimenting with science School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and the school came to Genentech’s SSF site to compete in Science Teachers, and even donated their hard work
Established in 2011, ‘Science on the Move’ was set Royal Society of Chemistry, and visited several the fourth and final challenge, which determined on projects to improve playgrounds and facilities at
up for hopeful discoverers across Switzerland. Open renowned science museums. Sponsored by Roche the winning team. SSF schools.**
to secondary classes, the project culminates with a and run by the SimplyScience Foundation, ‘Science
bi-annual competition, which engages young people on the Move’ is an initiative of ‘scienceindustries,’ Genentech employees also get involved in the fun.
More than 1,500 Genentech employees
in science, teamwork and fun. The programme fosters representing the Swiss Business Association for the Volunteer coaches support students throughout the
students’ interest in biology and science and identifies Chemical, Pharmaceutical and Biotech industries.* competition by encouraging and directing teams,
volunteered for Futurelab in the
the class with the greatest dedication and commitment explaining what they do at Genentech and serving as
in these fields. Solving healthcare challenges positive role models by sharing what inspired them
programme’s first year.
Genentech has a long history of supporting science during their career journey.
The competition challenges a broad range of abilities. education in South San Francisco (SSF), where the
Students explore various experiments and theories, main company site is located. In 2015, Genentech
and then showcase their scientific communication introduced the ‘Helix Cup,’ a hands-on competition
skills in traditional and innovative ways. ‘Science designed to bring science alive for all students in
on the Move’ consists of three phases: in phase one the South San Francisco Unified School District
and two, the goal is to conduct two biological and (SSFUSD).
biochemical experiments in the laboratory and * www.roche.com/science_education | ** www.gene.com/good/giving/futurelab
134 135Roche | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance | Roche
7
Cor porate
Gove r nance
Roche’s Corporate Governance aims at safeguarding
the sustainable interests of the company.
years r unning
Roche ranked as the most sustainable healthcare
company by the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices
113366 113377Roche | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance | Roche
Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting
Principles
Board of Directors
Roche is committed to serving all its stakeholders. governance requirements, in particular with all Board of Directors Board Committees
As a basis for the successful implementation of this applicable laws, the Swiss Stock Exchange (SIX Swiss
and Board Committees Presidium and Nomination Committee
commitment our Corporate Governance principles Exchange) directives and the Swiss Code of Best
accordingly put the focus of our business activities Practice for Corporate Governance promulgated Remuneration Committee
on sustainable value creation and innovation and by the Swiss business federation ‘economiesuisse’.
Audit Committee
prescribe a management culture conforming to The company’s internal governance framework,
recognised standards of good corporate governance particularly its Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
and a policy of transparent communication. embodies all the principles needed to ensure that the
company’s businesses are managed and supervised in
Corporate Executive Committee
A strong Board of Directors, which represents the a manner consistent with good corporate governance, Corporate Executive
interests of the shareholders and all other stakeholders, including the necessary checks and balances. 1
COO COO General
Committee CEO CFO HR
and highly skilled managers that act with integrity are Pharma Diagnostics Counsel
extremely important. The printed Annual Report contains selected links
to the Roche website (www.roche.com). Readers are
In 2015, for the 7th consecutive year, Roche has been thus provided not only with a ‘snapshot’ of our company Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
Enlarged Corporate
recognised by the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices at the reporting date but are also directed to sources
gRED pRED Partnering Communications
as the Group Leader in sustainability within the which they can consult at any time for up-to-date Executive Committee
pharmaceuticals, biotechnology and life sciences information about corporate governance at Roche. Chugai
industry. Sustainability is at the core of our business Whereas each annual report covers a single financial
practices and this award reflects our commitment to year ending 31 December, our website contains
running our business in a way that is ethical, responsible information of a more permanent nature, as well as
and creates long-term value for stakeholders. the latest Roche news. The company’s Articles of
Incorporation, Bylaws and the curricula vitae of the
This Corporate Governance Report sets out the members of the Board of Directors and the Corporate
structures, processes and rules which Roche takes as Executive Committee are published on our website.
the basis for well-functioning corporate governance.
In doing so, Roche complies with all relevant corporate For further details please refer to the following report.
1 www.roche.com/governance
138 139Roche | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance | Roche
Board of Directors
Board of Directors
At the 97th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of On 1 March 2016, at the forthcoming AGM the Board of Directors Board Committees
Roche Holding Ltd, on 3 March 2015, shareholders Board of Directors nominates the Chairman, all
and Board Committees Presidium and Nomination Committee
re-elected Christoph Franz as Chairman of the remaining Members of the Board of Directors for
Board of Directors. re-election. As announced in May 2015, DeAnne Remuneration Committee
Julius who is a member of the Board of Directors
Audit Committee
Furthermore, the AGM re-elected André Hoffmann, since 2002, decided not to stand for re-election. As
Pius Baschera, John Bell, Paul Bulcke, DeAnne Julius, announced in December 2015, in addition Beatrice Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
Andreas Oeri, Severin Schwan, Peter R. Voser and Weder di Mauro who is a member of the Board since
Beatrice Weder di Mauro and elected Bernard Poussot 2006 decided not to stand for re-election in 2016. The
and Richard P. Lifton as new members of the Board Board nominates Mrs Julie Brown and Mrs Claudia
of Directors for a term of one year as provided by the Süssmuth Dyckerhoff for election as new members
Articles of Incorporation. of the Board of Directors at the AGM 2016.
Composition as at 31.12.2015 Name (year of birth) First elected
In addition the AGM elected Christoph Franz, Moreover, the Board of Directors nominates Board of Directors Dr Christoph Franz (1960) C, D *, E Chairman 2011
André Hoffmann, Peter R. Voser and Bernard Poussot Christoph Franz, André Hoffmann, Peter R. Voser André Hoffmann (1958) A, C *, D, E Vice-Chairman 1996
as members of the Remuneration Committee. and Bernard Poussot for re-election and Richard P. (representative of the shareholder group with
Lifton for election as members of the Remuneration pooled voting rights)
At its organising meeting immediately following Committee by the AGM in 2016. Dr Andreas Oeri (1949) A *, E 1996
the AGM, the Board of Directors has determined (representative of the shareholder group with
the structure and composition of its remaining As in 2015, the Board of Directors nominates BDO pooled voting rights)
committees as shown on page 141 (see also pages 12 AG as the independent proxy for the period from Prof. Dr Pius Baschera (1950) A, E 2007
to 13 and page 146 ‘Board of Directors and Corporate 2016 until the conclusion of the 2017 ordinary Annual Prof. Sir John Irving Bell (1952) B, E 2001
Executive Committee’). General Meeting of Shareholders for election by Paul Bulcke (1954) B, E 2011
the AGM. Dame DeAnne Julius (1949) B *, E 2002
Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton (1953) E 2015
Bernard Poussot (1952) C, E 2015
Dr Severin Schwan (1967) F 2013
Peter R. Voser (1958) C, E 2011
Prof. Dr Beatrice Weder di Mauro (1965) B, E 2006
Secretary to the Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954)
Board of Directors
Honorary Chairman Dr Fritz Gerber (1929)
of the Board of Directors
A Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee B Audit Committee
C Remuneration Committee D Presidium/Nomination Committee
E Non-executive director F Executive director
* Committee chairperson
140 141Roche | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance | Roche
Corporate Executive Committee Corporate Executive Committee
Corporate Executive
COO COO General
Committee CEO CFO HR
Pharma Diagnostics Counsel
In 2015, memberships of the Corporate Executive
Committee remained unchanged.
Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
Enlarged Corporate
Information on each member of the Corporate gRED pRED Partnering Communications
Executive Committee
Executive Committee and of the Enlarged Corporate
Chugai
Executive Committee is listed below (see also pages 18
to 19 and page 146 ‘Board of Directors and Corporate
Executive Committee’).
Composition as at 31.12.2015 Name (year of birth) Position Since
Corporate Executive Dr Severin Schwan (1967) CEO of the Roche Group 2008
Committee Daniel O’Day (1964) COO Division Roche Pharmaceuticals 2010
Roland Diggelmann (1967) COO Division Roche Diagnostics 2012
Dr Alan Hippe (1967) Chief Financial and IT Officer 2011
Silvia Ayyoubi (1953) Head Group Human Resources 2008
Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954) General Counsel 2003
Enlarged Corporate Osamu Nagayama (1947) Chairman and CEO Chugai 2006
Executive Committee Dr Michael D. Varney (1958) Head Genentech Research and 2015
Early Development (gRED)
Prof. John C. Reed (1958) Head Roche Pharma Research and 2013
Early Development (pRED)
Dr Stephan Feldhaus (1962) Head Group Communications 2010
Dr Sophie Kornowski-Bonnet (1963) Head Roche Partnering 2012
Secretary to the Corporate Per-Olof Attinger (1960)
Executive Committee
Statutory Auditors KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler SA (reporting years 2004–2008)
of Roche Holding Ltd KPMG AG (since 2009)
Auditor in charge: John A. Morris (2004–2010)
Ian Starkey (since 2011)
Chief Compliance Officer Dr Urs Jaisli (1956)
142 143Roche | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance | Roche
Roche Pharma (incl. Genentech)
Pharma
Chugai
Professional Diagnostics
Molecular Diagnostics
Diagnostics
Group structure and shareholders
Tissue Diagnostics
Diabetes Care
Roche’s operating businesses are organised into two and in Note 4 to the Financial Statements of Roche Composition as at 31.12.2015
divisions: Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics. The Holding Ltd (‘Significant shareholders’, page 144). In
Pharmaceuticals Division comprises the two business addition, significant shareholders are published on
segments Roche Pharmaceuticals and Chugai, whereas the relevant webpage of the disclosure office of SIX
Genentech as the former third segment has been Exchange Regulation www.six-exchange-regulation.com/ Capital structure
integrated into Roche Pharmaceuticals. The Diagnostics en/home/publications/significant-shareholders.html.
Division consists of the following four business areas:
Diabetes Care, Molecular Diagnostics, Professional André Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman of the Board of
Diagnostics and Tissue Diagnostics. Directors and Chairman of the Remuneration Information on Roche’s capital structure is provided in (including the provisions protecting the interests
Committee, and Andreas Oeri, member of the Board the Finance Report, Notes to the Financial Statements ofNES holders) are described in §4 of the Articles
Business activities are carried out through Group of Directors and Chairman of the Board’s Corporate of Roche Holding Ltd (page 143). Additional details of Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd.
subsidiaries and associated companies. Detailed Governance and Sustainability Committee, serve are contained in the Articles of Incorporation of
information on Roche Holding Ltd and on significant in their respective capacities on the Board and its Roche Holding Ltd. 2 Information on debt instruments which have been
subsidiaries and associated companies (including committees as representatives of the shareholder issued and on outstanding bonds is provided in the
company name, listing information, domicile, share group with pooled voting rights and receive the Movement in recognised amounts during the last Finance Report, Note 20 to the Roche Group
capital, and equity interest) are listed in the Finance remuneration set forth in the Remuneration Report three financial years are detailed in the Finance Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Debt’, page 77).
Report, Note 31 to the Roche Group Consolidated on page 171 and in the Finance Report, Note 30 to Report, Notes to the Financial Statements of Roche
Financial Statements (‘Subsidiaries and associates’, the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements Holding Ltd (page 144). Information on employee stock options is provided
page 113). (‘Related parties’, page 110). With the exception of in the Finance Report, Note 26 to the Roche Group
Jörg Duschmalé, who works as a post-doc at Roche, The company has a share capital of CHF 160,000,000, Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Equity
Major shareholders are listed in the Finance Report, no other relationships exist with the shareholders divided into 160,000,000 fully paid bearer shares compensation plans’, page 94), including detailed
Notes 21 and 30 to the Roche Group Consolidated with pooled voting rights. with a nominal value of CHF 1 each. There are no information on the ‘Stock-settled Stock Appreciation
Financial Statements (‘Equity attributable to Roche restrictions on the exercise of the voting rights of Rights (S-SARs) Plan’, the ‘Roche Restricted Stock
shareholders’ and ‘Related parties’, pages 82 and 110) There are no cross-shareholdings. these shares. Upon deposit, shares can be voted Unit Plan’, the ‘Roche Performance Share Plan’,
without any restrictions. ‘Roche Connect’ and the ‘Roche Option Plan’.
There is no authorised or conditional capital. Roche has issued no options apart from employee
stock options as described in the Finance Report,
In addition, 702,562,700 non-voting equity securities Note 26 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial
(NES) have been issued in bearer form. They do not Statements (‘Equity compensation plans’, page 94) and
form part of the share capital and confer no voting options issued in connection with debt instruments.
rights. Each NES confers the same rights as one share
to participate in available earnings and in any Neither the options awarded to employees nor the
liquidation proceeds following repayment of the share debt instruments which have been issued have any
capital. Roche’s NES and the rights pertaining thereto effect on Roche’s share capital.
2 www.roche.com/article_of_incorporation
144 145Roche | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance | Roche
Board of Directors
Board of Directors Board Committees
and Board Committees Presidium and Nomination Committee
Board of Directors and Corporate
Remuneration Committee
Audit Committee
Executive Committee
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
Information on each member of the Board of Directors With the exception of Severin Schwan none of the Corporate Executive
and on each member of the Corporate Executive members of the Board of Directors in office at the end Corporate Executive Committee
Committee
Committee is listed on pages 141 and 142. Members of of 2015 has been a member of Roche’s Corporate
the Board of Directors have no age limit or restriction Executive Committee or served in an executive capacity
on their term of office. Curricula vitae of all current at any Group subsidiary during the three financial
and of former members (of the last five years) of both years preceeding the current reporting period and
bodies and other information (including information they are for lack of existing business connections with 2015 are described on page 141. Each committee’s • Report on operating and financial risks (risk
on the years of their first election as board members, any Group subsidiary independent. authorities and responsibilities are defined in detail management system).
additional positions, memberships and activities) are in the Bylaws of the Board of Directors. 8 The Roche Group has established a risk management
available and continuously updated on the Internet. 3 The Principles of Governance (principles of process covering the entire company with a system
delegation and competence, reservation of powers All the committees are chaired by independent in place to identify and manage all type of risks
Rules pursuant to article 12 para. 1 point 1 VegüV and management of a group of companies) of the directors. potentially affecting its business (including economic,
on the number of permitted activities of the Board of executive bodies of the company include economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks and
Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee environmental and social topics. The principles According to the Bylaws of the Board of Directors, opportunities and containing stakeholder input).
members are outlined in §22.4 of the Articles of together with the internal organisation of the Board of a Board meeting may be convened without the The Board of Directors is the highest governance
Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd. 4 Directors, the division of authority and responsibilities Chairman present at the request of any of its members. body involved. Roche’s Risk Management Policy sets
between the Board and management, the remits of the The Roche Board meets once a year to assess the out the approach and accompanying responsibilities.
Since 2014 the Annual General Meeting elects all Board committees, and the information and control Chairman’s performance. This meeting, which is The Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions and
members of the Board of Directors, the Chairman mechanisms available to the Board in its dealings with not attended by the Chairman, is chaired by the global functions conduct a formal risk assessment
of the Board of Directors and the members of the corporate management, are governed by the Bylaws. 6 Vice-Chairman. process at least once a year and must develop
Remuneration Committee on an annual basis in risk plans for their most material risks. These are
elections in which each nominee is voted on separately The Board of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd is As part of the Management Information System (MIS), monitored and deviations reviewed in regular
(see §18 of the Articles of Incorporation of Roche organised so as to ensure that the Group conducts its the Board of Directors is informed about the most performance dialogues. The consolidated Group
Holding Ltd 4 and the Minutes of the 97th Annual businesses responsibly and with a focus on long-term important issues, sales performance etc. on a monthly Risk Report including target risk profile is discussed
General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, held on value creation. To this end, the Roche Board has basis. The Board has access to an electronic information by the Corporate Executive Committee and approved
3 March 2015 5). delegated certain responsibilities to several committees. 7 platform which provides timely information to the together with the Group Business Plan. All material
Their composition and chairpersons as at 31 December Board of Directors and the Board’s committees as risks are reviewed by the Board on a yearly basis.
does the system of controls as set forth below. The process is subject to regular reviews, with
findings presented to the Audit Committee and the
3 www.roche.com/board_of_directors and www.roche.com/executive_committee The Board of Directors has established a system of full Board. The effectiveness of the risk management
4 www.roche.com/article_of_incorporation controls which is continuously monitored by the process is monitored by the Group Risk Advisory
5 www.roche.com/annual_general_meetings Audit Committee, by the Corporate Governance and team and the overall process is regularly reviewed
6 www.roche.com/article_of_incorporation Sustainability Committee and by the Board of by external auditors.
7 www.roche.com/committees Directors and consists of the following elements: For details on risk management, including risk
8 www.roche.com/article_of_incorporation factors and the Risk Management Policy see ‘Risk
146 147Roche | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance | Roche
Management & Compliance’ on our website. 9 efficiency of the processes and controls. Action plans 1 October to 20 October 2016 The Board of Directors regularly conducts an
Financial risk management is specifically described to implement necessary changes and enhancements Black-out periods can be changed by the Chairman assessment (self-assessment/assessment by third parties
in the Finance Report. 10 are developed together with the business/auditee and of the Board of Directors if circumstances warrant. via electronical survey and personal interviews) of its
• System of internal controls over financial reporting are tracked to completion. performance. In 2015, an independent assessment by a
(see pages 125 and 127 of the Finance Report) • Statutory auditors, see page 152 In 2015, the Board of Directors met for 7 meetings, third party was conducted.
• Internal audit • Chief Compliance Officer and Compliance Officers generally each from 3 to 6 hours in length; including
Group Audit reports to the General Counsel, has in subsidiaries, see page 155 a full-day meeting and in addition for a 3-day visit to Members of the Corporate Executive Committee have
direct access and gives regular briefings to the Audit • Safety, Health and Environmental Protection a major subsidiary **. The Board committees met as a maximum ordinary notice period of twelve months.
Committee and to the Corporate Governance and Department 11 follows in 2015: There are no change-of-control clauses in the
Sustainability Committee about ongoing activities • Corporate Sustainability Committee 12 • Presidium of the Board of Directors/Nomination employment contracts.
and audit reports. The Chief Audit & Risk Advisory • Science and Ethics Advisory Group (SEAG), for Committee: 9 meetings (approx. 2 hours each **),
Executive attends the Audit Committee and partly issues relating to genetics and genetic engineering 13 including 2 telephone conferences There are no management contracts which fall within
the Corporate Governance and Sustainability • Remuneration Committee: 4 meetings 14 (approx. 2 the scope of Subsection 4.4 (annex) of the SIX Directive
Committee meetings, as do the external auditors. The members of the Corporate Executive Committee to 3 hours each **) on Information relating to Corporate Governance.
Group Audit is an independent appraisal function, are invited to attend meetings of the Board of • Audit Committee: 5 meetings (approx. 3 to 4 hours
which evaluates and reviews the Group’s activities Directors for, and report in person on, those agenda each **)
as a service to management. The annual audit plan items concerning them. When the situation warrants, • Corporate Governance and Sustainability
with yearly defined focus areas (e.g. emerging members of the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee: 4 meetings (approx. 3 hours each **)
markets, third-party management) is validated by Committee may also be invited to attend. The Board
Senior Management and presented to the Audit committees invite the Chairman of the Board and
Committee. The Roche Group is committed to Corporate Executive Committee members to deliver Board and Board Committees attendance 2015
maintaining a high standard of internal control reports at committee meetings and may elect to
throughout its worldwide operations. Management commission independent expert reports and call Corporate
Presidium/ Governance and
is responsible for assessing the business risks in all on the services of consultants.
Nomination Remuneration Audit Sustainability
aspects of its operation and for implementing Board Committee Committee Committee Committee
effective and efficient processes and controls whilst Each year several black-out periods are imposed Number of meetings 7 9 4 5 4
ensuring compliance with internal and external during which senior employees are prohibited from Ch. Franz 7 9 4 5* 4*
rules and regulations. trading in company stock. The following black-out A. Hoffmann 6 8 3 – 4
By conducting operational audits, Group Audit periods are in effect for 2016: P. Baschera 7 – – – 4
determines management’s response to the risks 26 December 2015 to 28 January 2016 J. Bell 7 – – 5 –
surrounding business processes and systems, and 1 April to 19 April 2016 P. Bulcke 7 – – 5 –
evaluates the appropriateness, completeness and 26 June to 21 July 2016 D. Julius 7 – – 5 –
R.P. Lifton 6 – – – –
B. Poussot 6 – 3 – –
9 www.roche.com/risk_management_and_compliance S. Schwan 7 – – 5* –
10 Additional information is provided in the Finance Report, Note 29 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements, ‘Risk management’, A. Oeri 7 – – – 4
page 101. P.R. Voser 5 – 4 – –
11 www.roche.com/environment B. Weder di Mauro 7 – – 4 –
12 www.roche.com/sustainability
– Not a member of that committee.
13 www.roche.com/ethical_conflicts * Invited as a guest to these Board committee meetings.
** These figures indicate the actual length of meetings and do not include the directors’ extensive pre-meeting preparations and post-meeting
14 Remuneration Committee members recuse themselves from deliberations and decisions on matters that affect their interests.
follow-up activities.
148 149Roche | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance | Roche
Remuneration, shareholdings and loans Participatory rights of shareholders
All details regarding remuneration, shareholdings Rules in Aol 15 for The participatory rights of shareholders are Under §10.2 of the Articles of Incorporation,
and loans (content and method of determining the Content Board CEC defined in Roche’s Articles of Incorporation. 15 shareholders representing shares with a nominal
compensation and the shareholding programmes, Rules on the principles §25.1–6 §25.1–6 As Roche shares are issued to bearer, there are no value of at least CHF 1 million can request the
basic principles and elements of compensation and applicable to performance- restrictions on admission to Annual General placement of items on the agenda of an Annual
shareholding programmes for serving and former related pay Meetings, with the exception that shares must be General Meeting. This must be done no later than
members of the Board of Directors and Corporate Rules on the principles to the §25.7 §25.7 deposited within a specified period before the date 28 days before the date of the meeting.
Executive Committee, together with a description of allocation of equity securities, of a meeting and an admittance card must be issued
the authorities and procedure for determining such) convertible rights and options in the shareholder’s name, as provided in §12 of the The rules on the issue of instructions to the
are set forth in the separate Remuneration Report on Additional amount for payments §24.5 Articles of Incorporation. Any shareholder can elect independent proxy and rules on the electronic
pages 156 to 191 and in the Finance Report, Notes 21 to members of the Executive to be represented by a third party at an Annual participation in the AGM are laid down in the
and 30 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Committee appointed after the General Meeting. corresponding invitation to the AGM and are
Statements (‘Equity attributable to Roche shareholders’ vote on pay at the General not regulated in the Articles of Incorporation.
and ‘Related parties’, pages 82 and 110), and are listed Meeting of Shareholders The Articles of Incorporation contain no restrictions
in Note 6 to the Financial Statements of Roche Holding Rules on loans, credit facilities §25.1 and 3 §25.2 and 3 on the exercise of voting rights, and the only quorum
Ltd (‘Board and Executive shareholdings’, page 145). and post-employment benefits requirements are those stipulated in §16, in conformity
Rules on the vote on pay at §24 §24 with the Swiss Code of Obligations.
The following rules on Remuneration, shareholdings the AGM
and loans for the Board of Directors (Board) and the
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) are set forth
in the Articles of Incorporation (AoI) 15:
Dr Andreas Oeri, Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee.
15 www.roche.com/article_of_incorporation
150 151Roche | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance | Roche
Change of control and defensive measures which go beyond the legal requirements, and other The company has a formal policy governing the
attestation services, comfort letters, consents engagement of the statutory auditor for non-audit
and consultation. services. The policy prohibits certain services from
being provided but permits certain other services
The Articles of Incorporation contain no provisions would be terminated in the event of an acquisition, Tax services include services with respect to up to limits agreed by the Audit Committee. Each
on the mandatory bid rule. Swiss law applies. and vesting period restrictions on pre-existing awards compliance, tax returns and tax advice except potential non-audit service engagement is reviewed
would be removed, so that all such options could be those services related to the audit of tax. against this policy before any authority to proceed
There are no change-of-control clauses. Those exercised immediately. is given.
components of remuneration based on Roche NES Other services include advice relating to process
improvements, regulations and trainings.
Relationship to statutory auditors
Relationship to the independent proxy
At the Annual General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd KPMG received the following remuneration for their
on 3 March 2015, the shareholders voted to appoint services as statutory auditors of Roche Holding Ltd In recent years, BDO AG served as the independent The rules on the issue of instructions to the
KPMG AG (KPMG) as statutory auditors. Based on and as the auditors of other Roche companies proxy and at the Annual General Meeting on 3 March independent proxy and rules on the electronic
the existing legal requirements of the Swiss Code of (including Chugai): 2015, shareholders elected BDO AG as the independent participation in the AGM are laid down in the
Obligations (Article 730a) concerning the maximum proxy for the period from 2015 until the conclusion corresponding invitation to the AGM and are
term of office of seven years of the auditor in charge, 2015 2014 of the 2016 ordinary Annual General Meeting of not regulated in the Articles of Incorporation.
Ian Starkey replaced his predecessor John Morris as (millions of CHF) Shareholders. BDO AG was paid in 2015 for its services
auditor-in-charge starting with the business year 2011 Auditing services 21.1 20.5 according to expenditure totalling CHF 17,010 (2014:
(information on how long the auditors and auditor-in- Audit-related services CHF 22,421).
charge have been serving in these capacities is provided — Accounting – –
on page 142). The statutory auditors participate in — Assurance 0.8 1.3
Audit Committee meetings. They prepare written and Tax services 1.3 1.2
oral reports on the results of their audits. The Audit Other services 1.7 0.7
Committee oversees and assesses the auditors and Total 24.9 23.7
makes recommendations to the Board (for information
on the authorities and responsibilities of the Audit The statutory auditors are elected each year by the
Committee, see Article 8.1 of the Bylaws 16). The Annual General Meeting.
statutory auditors participated in 5 meetings of the
Audit Committee in 2015. Auditing services are provided as legally required.
The reports of statutory auditor on the Consolidated Audit-related services include assurance and
Financial Statements and on the Financial Statements accounting services provided by auditors but which
can be found on pages 126 and 149, respectively, of are not necessarily provided by the statutory auditor.
this year’s Finance Report. These services include audits of pension funds and
employee benefit plans, internal control reviews 16 www.roche.com/article_of_incorporation
152 153Roche | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance | Roche
Information policy Chief Compliance Officer and
Compliance Officers network
As provided by §34 of the Articles of Incorporation 17, All relevant information and documents, including
corporate notices are published in the Swiss Official all media releases, investor updates 19 and presentations
Gazette of Commerce and in other daily newspapers to analyst and investor conferences are available on The Chief Compliance Officer with his Compliance Group Code of Conduct and its reference documents.
designated by the Board of Directors (Basler Zeitung, the Internet. Further publications can be ordered by Officers network is committed to ensuring that the It furthermore will serve as a platform for ideas and
Finanz und Wirtschaft, L’Agefi, Le Temps, Neue e-mail, fax or telephone: Roche Group Code of Conduct 21 is consistently suggestions concerning those documents.
Zürcher Zeitung). basel.webmaster@roche.com complied with throughout the Roche Group. He also
tel. +41 (0)61 688 30 61 serves as a contact person for shareholders, employees, In addition, Roche has established a Business Ethics
Roche reports its half-year and full-year results in fax +41 (0)61 688 41 96 customers, suppliers and the general public on issues Incident Reporting (BEIR) system which enables
business reports (published in print and/or online relating to the implementation of and compliance the Chief Compliance Officer to capture, track and
formats) and at media events. In addition, detailed The contact address for Investor Relations is: with this Code. Employees and other parties who monitor alleged violations, from initial reports by
first- and third-quarter sales figures are published F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Investor Relations, become aware of violations of the Roche Group Code local Compliance Officers through to resolution.
each year in April and October. The most current list Group Finance, 4070 Basel, Switzerland of Conduct can bring them to the attention of their Business ethics incidents are recorded in the system
of publication dates is available in English and tel. +41 (0)61 688 88 80 managers or supervisors, to the local compliance when the local management receives specific and
German on the Internet. 18 fax +41 (0)61 691 00 14 officer or report them to the Chief Compliance Officer concrete information about an alleged violation of the
(Urs Jaisli, direct phone number: +41 (0)61 688 40 18, Roche Group Code of Conduct in one of certain pre-
Additional information, including details on specific e-mail: urs.jaisli@roche.com). Such disclosures will be defined categories. 22 The Corporate Governance and
contact persons, is available on the Internet. 20 treated confidentially. In addition, as of the end of 2009, Sustainability Committee and the Audit Committee
employees may anonymously report irregularities or of the Board of Directors are informed of substantial
complaints in their mother tongue via a ‘SpeakUp violations and management’s corrective actions made.
Line’. Starting in December 2013, a new compliance
tool on Group level, the so-called Roche Group Code The Chief Compliance Officer reports to the General
of Conduct Help & Advice Line, was introduced which Counsel and also submits regular reports to the
strives to provide guidance in case of questions or Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
uncertainties about the interpretation of the Roche and to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Non-applicability/negative disclosure
17 www.roche.com/article_of_incorporation
18 www.roche.com/media
19 www.roche.com/investors
20 www.roche.com/investors/contacts It is expressly noted that any information not contained (as provided in the SIX Swiss Exchange Corporate
21 www.roche.com/code_of_conduct or mentioned herein is either non-applicable or its Governance Directive and the Commentary thereto).
22 www.roche.com/risk_management_and_compliance omission is to be construed as a negative declaration
154 155Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
71
Remuneration
%
Report
Roche is committed to a compensation system that is
balanced and performance-oriented, and that aligns the
interests of employees and owners of the company.
of our employees
are satisfied with their benefits*
* According to the Global Employee Opinion Survey 2014.
156 157Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
1. Principles
Roche’s success depends substantially on the expertise, that compensation packages are competitive, both
motivation and performance of its employees. This the structure and individual components are
conviction forms the basis of our compensation policy. regularly benchmarked against Swiss, European and
international criteria. Our remuneration guidelines
Roche aims to remunerate all employees fairly, and their underlying principles are also subject to
transparently and in line with market conditions, regular outside comparisons.
toenable them to participate appropriately in the
company’s success. We pursue this goal by providing However, compensation policy is only one factor
competitive, performance-based compensation. in safeguarding Roche’s future success (see
www.roche.com/rewards). Another key element is a
We strive for a balanced mix of fixed and variable corporate culture that offers employees conditions in
compensation components geared to each employee’s which they can make their best possible contribution
position and management responsibility. to the shared corporate goal of improving healthcare
to patients. This includes a sound value system that
The variable components are intended to create is based on integrity, courage and passion (see
additional financial incentives to achieve corporate www.roche.com/living_our_values). At the same time,
goals and to keep innovation at a consistently high our decentralised management approach plays a
level while increasing the value that the company major role with its wide scope for individual decision-
creates for all stakeholder groups. At the same making, respectful interactions, openness to diversity,
time, in order to allow employees and managers wide-ranging training and development opportunities
to participate in the company’s business success, and an attractive working environment. An employee’s
adequate compensation measures are key. These motivation and loyalty to an organisation is not solely
incentives take the form of annual bonus payments based on the terms of compensation.
and long-term share-based programmes.
Roche is committed to a fair, balanced and performance-
For a global company like Roche, market-competitive based compensation policy that links employees’
remuneration plays a key role along with a performance- interests with those of various stakeholder groups.
based, transparent compensation structure. To ensure
158 159Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
2. Remuneration decision process and consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) assists Meeting for approval implementing the ‘Ordinance
Roche in performing market comparisons and in against excessive compensation in listed corporations’
advising the Remuneration Committee. Information (Verordnung gegen übermässige Vergütungen bei
approval framework
on the Remuneration Committee’s remit, powers and börsenkotierten Aktiengesellschaften [VegüV]). The
procedures for making remuneration decisions can be General Meeting shall vote annually and with binding
found in the Bylaws of the Roche Board of Directors 3 effect on the approval of the remuneration (that the
2.1 Overview upon recommendations from the Remuneration and in the Articles of Incorporation 4. They are also Board of Directors has resolved) of the Board of
Each year the Remuneration Committee of Roche’s Committee. outlined in the sections below on the principles Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee
Board of Directors meets at least twice and decides governing specific remuneration components (see 3.). (for details see 4. and 5.).
the remuneration of Board members and the members The Remuneration Committee tracks market data
of the Group’s Corporate Executive Committee. The on salaries at other leading global pharmaceuticals Since 2014, total aggregate amounts which are based
terms of Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards are companies 1 and at major Swiss companies 2 and on these decisions are submitted to the General
decided annually by the Board of Directors, acting reports its findings to the full Board. The external
Remuneration decision process and approval framework
Beneficiary
Remuneration Board of Directors (BoD) Corporate Executive Decision by Approval by
components Chairman (C) Committee (CEC) Peer set for 2015
CEO
ABB
Abbott Laboratories
Base pay/remuneration √ √ Actelion
AbbVie
Bonus √ (C only) √ Credit Suisse
Amgen
Stock-settled Stock – √ Remuneration Committee LafargeHolcim
Astellas
Appreciation Rights Annual General Nestlé
AstraZeneca
Restricted Stock Units – √ Meeting Nobel Biocare
Bayer Roche
Performance Share Plan – √ Board of Directors upon Sonova
Bristol-Myers Squibb
recommendation from Straumann
Eli Lilly
Remuneration Committee Swiss Re
GlaxoSmithKline
Decisions on pension √ (C only) √ Remuneration Committee UBS
Johnson & Johnson
Zurich Insurance
Merck & Co.
Novartis Peer set for 2015
Pfizer
Sanofi
Takeda
1 Peer set for 2015: Abbott Laboratories, AbbVie, Amgen, Astellas, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Market comparison companies for salary assessment
Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co., Novartis, Pfizer, Sanofi, Takeda (no change in composition of peer set compared to 2014). Pharma Peer set
2 ABB, Actelion, Credit Suisse, LafargeHolcim, Nestlé, Nobel Biocare, Sonova, Straumann, Swiss Re, UBS, Zurich Insurance. Major Swiss Companies
3 www.roche.com/article_of_incorporation
4 www.roche.com/article_of_incorporation
160 161Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
2.2 Procedure for submitting total Board and Retrospective approval Approval of total remuneration at Annual General Financial year 2015 Financial year 2016
Executive remuneration for shareholder approval Total aggregate bonus amounts for the Corporate Meeting 2016
at the Annual General Meeting Executive Committee and the Chairman of the Board
Retrospective:
Each year at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of Directors for the financial year just ended will be
shareholders approve the total remuneration for the submitted retrospectively at each ordinary AGM for
Board of Directors and for the Corporate Executive separate and binding approval. Chairman of the BoD (C): C
Committee as decided by the Board of Directors’ • Bonus for financial year 2015 (total amount) Bonus
Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors Prospective approval
respectively. All other Board and Executive aggregate remuneration Corporate Executive Committee (CEC):
CEC
will be submitted prospectively to the AGM for separate • Bonus for financial year 2015 (total amount)
Bonus
According to the approval at the AGM 2014, Roche and binding approval for the period between two
has committed itself to obtaining separate and binding ordinary AGMs.
Prospective:
shareholder approvals of the total remuneration paid
to the Board of Directors and to the Corporate
Executive Committee as follows. Board of Directors (BoD) including C:
BoD
Aggregate total remuneration (AGM 2016–AGM 2017)
Base pay/remuneration
• Base pay/remuneration
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) including CEO:
Aggregate total remuneration (AGM 2016–AGM 2017) CEC
• Base pay Base pay
S-SARs
• Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
PSP
• Performance Share Plan (PSP) Indirect benefits
• Indirect benefits
Mr André Hoffmann, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
AGM 2015 AGM 2016 AGM 2017
1.1.2015 1.1.2016 1.1.2017
162 163Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
Variable
STI:
• Bonus Base salary
LTI: Indirect benefits (employer contribution):
• Stock-settled Stock • Pensions and insurance contributions
Appreciation Rights Roche • AHV/IV/ALV
• Performance Share Plan • Roche Connect
3. Remuneration components remuneration
• Restricted Stock Units • Tax consulting services
components
Expense allowances
3.1 Overview of remuneration elements align the interests of Roche and its employees Others:
Remuneration to the members of the Board of with those of shareholders. • Children’s schooling costs
Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee • Foreign tax obligation
are composed of the following elements. The LTI remuneration components are intended to
Fixed
sustainably and homogenously and long-term oriented
The fixed base salary is complemented with the annual align management’s interest with those of shareholders
variable bonus as Short-Term Incentive (STI) and and holders of non-voting equity securities and to give
with perennial variable remuneration elements participating managers an additional incentive to
(S-SARs, PSP, RSUs) as Long-Term Incentive (LTI). achieve continued value growth in the form of long-
term total shareholder returns. By creating value for
The remuneration components are linked to the Roche investors, management benefits as well. When 3.1.1 Base pay (fixed) qualitative individual or functional performance
employees’ performance, our company’s financial no added long-term value is created for investors, Base pay (cash payment) is determined for each objectives. For competitive reasons, Roche does not
performance and commercial success and thus management is ‘penalised’ by receiving less. position based on salary market data of other leading disclose the individual performance objectives of
global pharmaceuticals companies (see footnote 1) members of its Corporate Executive Committee.
and of other major Swiss companies (see footnote 2)
and reflects individuals’ abilities, experience and In December at the end of a reporting year or in
performance over time. Pay adjustments are likewise January following a reporting year the Remuneration
linked to individual performance and take into account Committee decides on the bonuses and their amounts
prevailing market conditions and the company’s payable to the Chairman of the Board and the members
overall financial situation. of the Corporate Executive Committee in respect of
Composition of remuneration to the Board of Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee the current reporting year, based on performance
The Remuneration Committee makes and reviews against the aforementioned objectives. At the same
Annual
remuneration elements Description C BoD CEO CEC the final decision on the individual base pay paid to time the Remuneration Committee also decides in
Base pay/ Monthly payment √ √ Q uarterly √ √ the Chairman of the Board of Directors and members what form bonuses will be awarded, i.e. cash payments
remuneration (see 3.1.1 below) payments of the Corporate Executive Committee and on the and/or blocked non-voting equity securities and/or
Bonus Annual payment √ For 10 years – √ For 10 years √ Cash remuneration of the other members of the Board. blocked shares.
(see 3.1.2 below) blocked shares blocked shares
Pensions etc. (see 3.1.6 below) √ – √ √ 3.1.2 Bonuses (variable) 3.1.3 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights
Perennial Bonuses are annually awarded for individual (variable)
remuneration elements contributions of value creation in a business year and A Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
Stock-settled Stock (see 3.1.3 below) – – √ √ are meant to be an incentive to strive for outstanding plan was introduced in 2005 establishing a uniform
Appreciation Rights results and to create new business opportunities. system of remuneration throughout Roche. S-SARs
(S-SARs) Bonus amounts are linked to Group and divisional entitle holders to benefit financially from any increase
Performance Share (see 3.1.5 below) – – √ For 10 years √ profits, sales growth, Operating Profit After Capital in the value of Roche’s non-voting equity securities
Plan (PSP) blocked shares Charge (OPAC), earnings per share and Non-voting between the grant date and the exercise date. As of
Restricted Stock (see 3.1.4 below) – – Per 2016 replaced Per 2016 replaced Equity Security (NES) growth, product development 2012 S-SARs granted to CEC members all vest together
Units (RSUs) by S-SARs/PSP by S-SARs/PSP pipeline and to the achievement of measurable and after three years and then have to be exercised within
164 165Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
seven years of the grant date. Unexercised S-SARs RSUs as a remuneration component will be continued PSP historical performance 3.1.6 Indirect benefits
lapse without compensation. Since 2012, the fair value for all other authortised Roche employees. (% of award of originally targeted NES) As shown in 5.9 (5.3 [for the CEO] and 4.3 [for the
of S-SARs has been calculated at the grant date using chairman] respectively), Members of the Corporate
the trinomial model for American options (for details 3.1.5 Performance Share Plan (PSP), (variable) 200% Executive Committee additionally received indirect
see page 180). The members of the Corporate Executive Committee 175% benefits (payments in pension funds, MGB [Stiftung
175% 175%
and other members of senior management (currently 150% der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-
S-SAR awards are allocated individually at the some 150 individuals worldwide) participate in the 125% Gewinnbeteiligung als Ergänzung der beruflichen
Remuneration Committee’s discretion. Performance Share Plan. The PSP was established 100% Vorsorge, i.e. employee profit-sharing foundation
in 2002 for periods of three years each and is based 75% supplementing occupational pension benefits],
3.1.4 Restricted Stock Units (variable) on a three-year comparison of the Total Shareholder insurances, Roche Connect [see 5.9], payments for
50%
50%
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)—rights to receive non- Return (TSR) with 15 peer companies (see footnote 1). foreign tax obligation and tax consulting services
25%
voting equity securities and/or shares after a three- 0% 0% and annual expense allowances) and as shown under
0%
year vesting period plus a value adjustment (being the In a respective year, the PSP consists of three 5.10 individual members of the Corporate Executive
2009–2011 2010–2012 2011–2013 2012–2014 2013–2015
amount equivalent to the sum of the dividend paid overlapping performance cycles, with a new cycle Committee received payments for schooling costs
during the vesting period attributable to the number starting at the beginning of each year and a cycle for their children.
of non-voting equity securities for which an individual finishing at the end of each year.
award has been granted)—were introduced in 2013 as
a new remuneration component partially replacing In 2015, there were the three overlapping
S-SARs. RSU awards are allocated individually at the performance cycles PSP 2013–2015, PSP 2014–2016 3.2 Weighting (fixed/variable) of 2015 remuneration components (at target and as percentage of total remuneration
Remuneration Committee’s discretion and will be and PSP 2015–2017, of which PSP 2013–2015 closed in 2015)
vested to the recipient after three years only. Thereafter, on 31 December 2015.
resulting non-voting equity securities may remain
Chairman 90% 10%
blocked for up to 10 years. With the vesting and For the PSP cycle 2013–2015 50% of the targeted NES
blocking periods the interests of the RSU recipients will be awarded (PSP 2012–2014 per 31 December
Board of Directors 100%
shall be aligned with the company’s long-term success 2014: 175% of the targeted NES were awarded).
and the commitment of employees to the company Corporate Executive
36% 64%
shall be increased. The plan’s key performance metric for an award, the Committee (including CEO)
Total Shareholder Return (TSR), is calculated as a
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
In 2013, the value of S-SAR awards was reduced to three-month moving average rate before the start of
65% and the 35% balance is awarded in form of RSUs. and before the end of the performance cycle. fixed variable
The payment of the Performance Share Plan is
In 2016, RSUs as remuneration component for the determined by the Board of Directors on an annual
Corporate Executive Committee will be replaced by basis, acting upon recommendations from the
awarding of corresponding PSPs. Therefore, the Remuneration Committee.
variable long-term incentive programmes for the
Corporate Executive Committee will comprise PSP
awards and S-SARs, 50% each.
166 167Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
3.3 Ratio of variable remuneration components relative to fixed base pay of the Corporate Executive 3.4 Changes with respect to the remuneration will comprise PSP and S-SARs awards, 50% each.
Committee 2015 components With this, the structure of the LTI is simplified and
As of 2015, the calculation of the PSP values for a in comparison with competitors, the company’s
Ratio of variable remuneration components (bonuses, S-SARs/RSUs and PSP) relative to % of value of fixed base pay corresponding reporting year will be newly based on performance which is reflected in the share price and
the fair value at grant (bearer share prices averaged the Total Shareholder Return shall be incorporated
STI LTI over the three months [October to December 2014] much more deeply in the Corporate Executive
Criteria Bonus S-SARs/RSUs PSP prior to the start of the performance cycle 2015–2017) Committee’s remuneration.
Individual target value * 100% 65% S-SARs 33.33% ** calculated per the target amount of Roche securities
35% RSUs over an entire PSP three years’ cycle with no Starting in 2016, PSP awards as a remuneration
Minimum 0% 0% 0% distribution to one year. This is instead of the former component will be reserved for the Corporate
Maximum 200% 150% 66.66% calculation of all three cycles and corresponding Executive Committee and the Enlarged Corporate
Performance criteria Group objectives (Group Value development Value development determined distribution to the reporting year (i.e. 2 cycles disclosed Executive Committee. As of 2016, the long-term
and divisional business determined by performance by performance (starting with at target, with the remaining cycle of the PSP based incentive programmes for the other previous PSP
performance) and individual (plus a value adjustment PSP 2013–2015 cycle plus a on the actual value of PSP vesting in the year). participants will comprise S-SARs and RSUs
objectives considering profit, for dividends) of NES value adjustment for dividends) awards, 50% each.
sales growth, OPAC (Operating after grant of NES/bearer shares after In 2016, RSUs for the Corporate Executive
Profit After Capital Charge), grant. Committee will be replaced by awarding of additional For all further details please refer to the following
earnings per share and NES Group performance of TSR in PSPs. Therefore, in future the long-term incentive sections of this Remuneration Report 5.
growth, product development relation to TSR performance of programmes for the Corporate Executive Committee
pipeline peer set (TSR definition see 5.8)
Split in %
a) Group objectives 70% n.a. 100%
b) Individual objectives 30% n.a. –
* Assessed in consideration of the performance of competitors and the macro-economic development.
** Based on annual base pay measured at 1 January of first year of cycle.
5 See also in the Finance Report, Note 30 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Related parties’, page 110) and Note 6 to
the Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Board and Executive shareholdings’, page 145).
168 169Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
4. Remuneration of the Board of
Directors
4.1 Resolution and approval
Remuneration of the Chairman of the Board of
Directors and of members of the Board of Directors
was decided at the Remuneration Committee’s
discretion, taking into account market comparisons.
The remuneration is in form of cash payments and
is annually tracked against market data on directors’
pay at other leading global pharmaceuticals
companies (see footnote 1) and other major Swiss
companies (see footnote 2) which is assisted by the
consultancy of PwC.
As in the previous year, in 2016, the Board of
Directors will separately submit the total aggregate
bonus of the Chairman of the Board of Directors to
the General Meeting for the 2015 financial year for
retrospectively binding approval.
The maximum amounts of the total aggregate
remuneration of the Board of Directors for the period
between the ordinary General Meeting 2016 and the
ordinary General Meeting 2017 will be tabled in 2016
as in the previous year for the General Meeting’s
prospectively binding approval (see 2.2).
4.2 Amount of remuneration to the members of the
Board of Directors
In 2015, the members of the Board of Directors 6
received remuneration and additional compensation
in form of quarterly fixed cash payments as shown
6 For a list of members, their positions and their committee memberships and chairmanships see page 141.
170 171
DETIDUA
in the ‘Remuneration of members of the Board of
Directors 2015’ table on page 171 for their Board
activities. Roche paid legally required employer’s
contributions of total CHF 166,720 (2014: CHF 155,431)
to Swiss social security programmes providing
retirement, disability and unemployment benefits
(AHV/IV/ALV) for the members of the Board of
Directors beside the legally required contributions
separately stated for the Chairman of the Board
of Directors.
The basic remuneration of the Board of Directors
(excluding the Chairman) has remained unchanged
since 2001 and remuneration of all members of the
Board of Directors will again remain unchanged
for 2016.
With the exception of the Chairman of the Board of
Directors (bonus in form of blocked shares) and
Severin Schwan as an executive member of the Board,
members of the Board of Directors were not awarded
any shares, non-voting equity securities, S-SARs
or RSUs.
There are no loans or credits granted to the members
of the Board of Directors.
In his capacity as a member of the International
Advisory Council (IAC) of Chugai Pharmaceutical
Co., Ltd. André Hoffmann received honoraria
amounting to a total of USD 25,000 (CHF 24,065).
DETIDUA
Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors 2015 (in CHF)
Additional compensation Additional special
Basic remuneration for committee members/chairs 7 compensation Total remuneration
Ch. Franz,
Chairman (see ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’)
A. Hoffmann, 400,000 8 – 24,065 424,065
Vice-Chairman (see page 170)
P. Baschera 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
J. Bell 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
P. Bulcke 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
D. Julius 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
R.P. Lifton 250,000 9 – – 250,000
B. Poussot 250,000 9 30,000 – 280,000
A. Oeri 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
S. Schwan (See ‘5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive Committee’,
remuneration received in his primary function as CEO and reflected in total remuneration for the Corporate Executive
Committee)
P.R. Voser 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
B. Weder di Mauro 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
Total 10 3,000,000 300,000 24,065 3,324,065
7 With the exception of members of the Presidium (Chairman, Vice-Chairman) Board members receive CHF 30,000/year for each committee they serve
on and CHF 60,000/year for each committee they chair.
8 Remuneration for serving as Vice-Chairman of the Board.
9 Prorated remuneration for the period from March to December 2015.
10 Additionally employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 398,324 (including the Chairman) was paid that does not form part of compensation.Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors 2014 (in CHF)
Additional compensation for Additional
Basic Remuneration committee members/chairs 7 special compensation Total remuneration
Ch. Franz,
Chairman (see ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’)
A. Hoffmann, 400,000 8 – 18,298 418,298
Vice-Chairman
P. Baschera 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
J. Bell 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
P. Bulcke 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
D. Julius 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
R.P. Lifton n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
B. Poussot n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
A. Oeri 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
S. Schwan (See ‘5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive
Committee’, remuneration received in his primary function as CEO and reflected in total remuneration for the
Corporate Executive Committee)
P.R. Voser 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
B. Weder di Mauro 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
Franz B. Humer 3,853,045 11 – 3,137,418 12 6,990,463
(retired in 2014)
W.M. Burns 75,000 13 – 18,298 93,298
(retired in 2014)
A.D. Levinson 225,000 14 22,500 14 114,236 361,736
(retired in 2014)
Total 6,653,045 292,500 3,288,250 7,096,377 15, 16
11 Prorated remuneration for serving as Chairman of the Board for the period January to March 2014 amounting to CHF 1,000,000, bonus award of
CHF 2,791,950 (in form of shares blocked for 10 years [calculation of number of shares based on the share price at the date of transfer in April 2015],
calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years [reduced market value: 55.839%]), employer contributions
to employee stock purchase plan Roche Connect (prorated for the period January to March 2014) amounting to CHF 18,750, payments for tax
consulting services (CHF 34,214) plus prorated remuneration Pension funds/MGB (Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-
Gewinnbeteiligung [employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing occupational pension benefits]) of CHF 939. Additionally, employer
contribution to AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 1,152,438 (2013: CHF 379,434) was paid that does not form part of compensation.
12 Franz B. Humer received in his advisory capacity to the Presidium (planned for 5 years) CHF 3,000,000. The total amount was paid in 2014. Franz B.
Humer received honoraria amounting to a total of USD 150,200 (CHF 137,418) for serving as a member of the International Advisory Council (IAC) and
as a member of the Board of Directors of Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. starting 1 April 2014.
13 Prorated remuneration for the period January to March 2014.
14 Prorated remuneration for the period January to September 2014.
15 Without amount of footnote 12, since no activity as a member of the Board.
16 Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 1,495,453 (including the Chairman) was paid that does not form part of compensation.
172 173
DETIDUA
Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors (in CHF)
2015 2014
Base salary (in cash) 3,500,000 3,408,340 *
Bonus (subject to approval of the Annual General 558,390 ** 558,390 **
Meeting 2016)
Pension funds/MGB 17/insurances/annual 1,656,388 *** 68,047 ***
expense allowances
Total 5,714,778 18 4,034,777
* Prorated remuneration as member of the Board of Directors for the period March to December 2014 and as Chairman of the Board of Directors for the
period March to December 2014.
** In form of shares blocked for 10 years (calculation of number of shares based on the share price at the date of transfer in April 2015 and 2016
respectively after approval at the AGM 2015/AGM 2016), calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years
(reduced market value: 55.839%) as approved at the AGM 2015/to be submitted for shareholder approval at the AGM 2016.
*** Including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts.
DETIDUA
4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the form of bearer shares blocked for 10 years, payable in
Board of Directors April 2016) will be put for shareholder binding vote at
As Chairman, Christoph Franz received total the 2016 ordinary Annual General Meeting (AGM).
remuneration for 2015 as shown below. The
Remuneration Committee’s bonus proposal (adopted The Chairman’s total remuneration is contained in the
in late 2015) in respect of the 2015 financial year (in total remuneration of the Board of Directors in 4.4.
4.4 Total remuneration paid to the Board of a member of the Board of Directors and as a member
Directors of the International Advisory Council (IAC) of Chugai
For the 2015 calendar year the members of Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. In addition CHF 146,699
the Board of Directors received remuneration employer’s contribution was paid to AHV/IV/ALV and
including bonuses totalling CHF 9,038,843 (2014: CHF 32,281 for tax consulting services were paid for
CHF 11,131,154), excluding additional employer’s the last time.
contribution paid to AHV/IV/ALV totalling
CHF 398,324 (2014: CHF 1,495,453) that does Former member of the Board of Directors William
not form part of compensation. M. Burns in 2015 received honoraria amounting to
a total of USD 25,000 (CHF 24,065) in his capacity
4.5 Remuneration paid to the former members of as a member of the International Advisory Council
the Board of Directors (IAC) of Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
Former member of the Board of Directors Franz B.
Humer in 2015 received honoraria amounting to a No additional remuneration was paid.
total of USD 200,000 (CHF 192,516) for serving as
17 MGB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing
occupational pension benefits).
18 Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 231,604 (2014: CHF 187,584) was paid that does not form part of compensation.
DETIDUA
DETIDUARoche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
4.6 Board remuneration subject to approval at the the table ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman 4.6.2 Submission of the Board’s total aggregate Severin Schwan’s remuneration as shown in 5.3 which
Annual General Meeting of the Board of Directors’ on page 173. The Board of future remuneration for a binding shareholder vote he receives in his function as CEO and member of the
Directors will submit the Remuneration Committee’s The Board of Directors proposes that the 2016 Corporate Executive Committee is not included here
4.6.1 Submission of the Chairman’s total aggregate bonus proposal (adopted in late 2015) for the Chairman ordinary AGM approve Board remuneration totalling but is part of the Corporate Executive Committee’s
bonus for a binding vote at the Annual General of the Board, Christoph Franz, in respect of the 2015 not more than CHF 10,000,000 (excluding legally total remuneration.
Meeting financial year (payable in April 2016, excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
Remuneration to the Chairman of the Board of required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV) and excluding bonuses) for the period ending at the
Directors includes a bonus award of CHF 558,390 for the shareholder binding vote to the 2016 ordinary 2017 ordinary AGM.
in form of shares blocked for 10 years as shown in Annual General Meeting (AGM).
Prospective approvals of the Board’s total aggregate future remuneration (in CHF)*
Retrospective approvals of the Chairman’s total aggregate bonus (in CHF) * Proposal AGM 2016 AGM 2015 AGM 2014
Aggregate amount Aggregate amount Aggregate amount
Proposal AGM 2016 AGM 2015 AGM 2014 for the period for the period for the period
Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for AGM 2016–AGM 2017 AGM 2015–AGM 2016 AGM 2014–AGM 2015
financial year 2015 financial year 2014 financial year 2013 Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/ approved by the AGM 10,000,000 10,000,000 11,000,000
approved by the AGM 558,390 ** 3,350,340 *** 2,791,950 ***
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses.
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV.
** Bonus award (in form of shares blocked for 10 years [calculation of number of shares based on the share price at the date of transfer in April 2016 after
approval at the AGM 2016], calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years [reduced market value: 4.6.3 Reconciliation of the reported remuneration For comparison from 2014 ordinary AGM to
55.839%] to be submitted for shareholder approval at the AGM 2016).
*** Includes Franz B. Humer’s bonus as the former Chairman. with the shareholders’ approved remuneration for ordinary2015 AGM actual remuneration amounted
the members of the Board of Directors to CHF 10,364,027, (excluding legally required
The 2014 ordinary AGM approved Board remuneration employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and
totalling not more than CHF 11,000,000 (excluding excluding bonuses).
legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/
ALV and excluding bonuses) for the period ending at
the 2015 ordinary AGM.
Prospectively approved total remuneration for the members of the Board of Directors in comparison to the actual total
payments made (in CHF) *
Total remuneration Total remuneration Total remuneration
for the period for the period for the period
AGM 2015–AGM 2016 AGM 2014–AGM 2015 AGM 2013–AGM 2014
Approval not yet
Maximum of total remuneration approved by the AGM 10,000,000 11,000,000 required
Actual total remuneration paid Calculation at end of period 10,364,027 10,046,691
Within the approved limit Calculation at end of period Yes –
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses.
174 175Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
4.7 Security holdings (‘Related parties’, page 110) and in Note 4 to the 5. Remuneration of the Corporate
Directors André Hoffmann and Andreas Oeri and Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd
members of the founders’ families who are closely (‘Significant shareholders’, page 144). In addition,
Executive Committee
associated with them belong to a contractually bound as at 31 December 2015 (as at 31 December 2014,
shareholder group with pooled voting rights. At the respectively) the members of the Board of Directors
end of 2015 this group held 72,018,000 shares (45.01% and persons closely associated with them held shares
of issued shares). Detailed information about this and Non-voting Equity Securities (NES) as shown 5.1 Resolution and approval 5.2 Amount of remuneration to members of the
group can be found in the Finance Report, Note 30 to in the table ‘Security holdings’ below. Remuneration of the members of the Corporate Corporate Executive Committee
the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements Executive Committee was decided at the Remuneration The general provisions assigning authority for decisions
Committee’s discretion, taking into account market on Corporate Executive Committee remuneration to
comparisons. the Remuneration Committee and to the Board of
Security holdings (shares and NES) Directors are outlined on pages 160, ‘2. Remuneration
As in the previous year, in 2016, the Board of decision process and approval framework’.
(as at 31 December 2015) (as at 31 December 2014) Directors will separately submit the total aggregate
Close relatives’ Close relatives’ bonuses of the Corporate Executive Committee to In 2015, members of the Corporate Executive
security security
the General Meeting for the 2015 financial year for Committee received remuneration for their work as
Shares NES holdings Others Shares NES holdings Others
(number) (number) (number/type) (number) (number) (number) (number/type) (number) retrospectively binding approval. shown in 5.3–5.12. The amount of remuneration for
Board of the CEO, Severin Schwan, is explained in 5.3 in detail.
Directors The maximum amounts of the total aggregate
Ch. Franz 3,663 350 – – – 350 – – remuneration of the Corporate Executive Committee
A. Hoffmann – * 200 – – – * 200 – – for the period between the ordinary General Meeting
P. Baschera 1 4,600 – – 1 4,600 – – 2016 and the ordinary General Meeting 2017 will be
J. Bell 300 1,647 – – 300 1,647 – – tabled in 2016 as in the previous year for the General
P. Bulcke – 2,500 – – – 1,350 – – Meeting’s prospectively binding approval (see 2.2).
D. Julius 350 2,050 – – 350 2,050 – –
R.P. Lifton – – – – n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
B. Poussot – – – – n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
A. Oeri – * 187,793 – – – * 187,793 – –
S. Schwan See ‘5.16 Security holdings’ See ‘5.16 Security holdings’
Corporate Executive Committee on page 188 Corporate Executive Committee on page 188
P.R. Voser – 3,600 – – – 3,600 – –
B. Weder di Mauro 200 800 – – 200 800 – –
Total 4,514 203,540 – – 851 202,390 – –
* Shares held by the shareholder group with pooled voting rights not listed.
176 177Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to Severin remuneration paid to a member of the Corporate
Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive Executive Committee (see below) and included in
Committee the total amount paid to the Corporate Executive
Severin Schwan, executive member of the Board of Committee (see ‘5.12 Total remuneration paid to the
Directors, received his remuneration in his primary members of the Corporate Executive Committee’,
function as CEO. It is reflected as the highest total page 185).
Highest total remuneration paid to Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive Committee (in CHF)
2015 2014 19
Base salary 4,000,000 4,000,000
S-SARs20 2,600,270 2,600,131
RSUs (Restricted Stock Units) 781,658 21* 781,694 *
Pension funds/MGB22/insurances 563,879 ** 553,246 **
Roche Connect 100,008 100,008
Subtotal 8,045,815 8,035,079
Bonus (subject to approval of the total aggregate bonuses for the Corporate Executive Committee
by Annual General Meeting 2016)
— Blocked non-voting equity securities/shares 3,126,984 23* 1,340,136 *
PSP 744,485 24* 2,574,419 25
Other payments: expense allowance/for tax consulting services 32,586 35,774
Total26 11,949,870 11,985,408
* Calculation of value of non-voting equity securities/shares in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years (reduced market
value: 55.839%).
** Including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts.
19 For detailed calculation of the remuneration for 2014 and 2013 see Annual Report 2014, page 159.
20 Number of S-SARs 2015: 59,997, grant value according to the trinomial model for American call options: CHF 43.34. Trinomial model for American call
options value as described in ‘5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee’,
page 180.
21 Number of RSUs 2015: 5,466, grant value CHF 256.10 (NES closing price at grant date on 5 March 2015) per RSU (2014: Number of RSUs: 5,551, grant
value: CHF 252.19 [NES average market price over a 90 days period prior to grant date on 6 March 2014] per RSU).
22 M GB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing occupational
pension benefits).
23 Shares blocked for 10 years (calculation of number of shares based on the share price at the date of transfer in April 2016 after approval at the AGM
2016).
24 Target number of bearer shares for PSP 2015–2017 (4,872 bearer shares) multiplied per bearer share price averaged over the three months (October to
December 2014) prior to the start of the performance cycle 2015–2017, CHF 273,66/bearer share.
25 Total estimated value of Annual Report 2014 for the year 2014: PSP 2012–2014: Award of 175% of the originally targeted NES awarded for 2012–2014
(15,888 NES in total), spread over the relevant period of time, i.e. 1/3 for the year 2014, value calculated using the year-end price as at 31 December
2014, CHF 269.90 per non-voting equity security (NES). PSP 2013–2015 and 2014–2016: Estimated value calculated using the year-end price as at
31 December 2014, CHF 269.90 per non-voting equity security (NES), based on the number of NES originally targeted (7,314 NES and 5,413 NES,
respectively) subject to changes in the number and value of NES awardable under the plan on 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2016, respectively,
and spread over the relevant period of time, i.e. 1/3 for the year 2014. The Board of Directors will vote on the actual allocation of originally targeted NES
on 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2016, respectively, according to the TSR achieved.
26 Includes an annual expense allowance (CHF 30,000) and payments for tax consulting services (CHF 2,586; 2014: CHF 5,774). Additionally, employer
contribution to AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 1,349,642 (2014: CHF 1,261,596) was paid that does not form part of compensation.
178 179
DETIDUA
Base pay (in CHF)
2015 2014
S. Ayyoubi 1,200,000 1,200,000
R. Diggelmann 1,275,000 1,150,000
A. Hippe 1,600,000 2,100,000 *
G. A. Keller 1,500,000 1,500,000
D. O’Day 2,375,000 2,000,000
Total 7,950,000 7,950,000
* Including CHF 500,000 for loss of pension rights granted by former employer (contractual agreement, each for 2012–2014).
DETIDUA
5.4 Base pay of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee
Bonus (in CHF)
2015 2014
(subject to approval of the total
aggregate bonuses of the Corporate
Executive Committee by the Annual
General Meeting 2016)
S. Ayyoubi 1,600,000 1,500,000
R. Diggelmann 1,400,000 1,300,000
A. Hippe 2,100,000 2,000,000
G. A. Keller 1,400,000 1,300,000
D. O’Day 3,100,000 3,000,000
Total 9,600,000 9,100,000
DETIDUA
5.5 Bonuses of the other members of the Corporate Except for Severin Schwan, all members of the
Executive Committee Corporate Executive Committee will receive the
The Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors bonus 2015 as a 100% cash payment which is due in
determined the Corporate Executive Committee April 2016. Severin Schwan will receive the bonus in
members’ bonuses based on the performance 2015 form of Roche shares which are blocked for 10 years.
against the agreed objectives. The total aggregate Bonus payment is due in April 2016 (see page 178).
amount of bonuses will be brought forward for a
binding vote by the Annual General Meeting 2016.Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights The fair value of the S-SARs is calculated at the grant
(S-SARs) of the other members of the Corporate date using the trinomial model for American options.
Executive Committee The trinomial model is an effective method for
The S-SARs shown in the 5.16.2 ‘S-SARs’ table on valuation of American call options, as it considers the
page 190 were introduced by Roche on 1 January 2005 possibility of exercising the option any time prior to
in place of stock options. S-SARs entitle holders to maturity (called ‘American’ option, as compared to a
benefit financially from any increase in the value of ‘European’ option, which only allows exercise at their
Roche’s non-voting equity securities (NES) between maturity date). 27
the grant date and the exercise date. The strike price
for S-SARs under the terms of this multi-year plan The numbers of S-SARs, the strike prices, expiry dates
was the closing price for Roche NES at grant date. All and grant values for S-SARs are shown in the 5.16.2
S-SARs vest three years after the grant date. Vested ‘S-SARs’ table on page 190. The numbers of S-SARs as
S-SARs can be exercised (converted into NES) within calculated at the time of issue have been entered as
seven years of the grant date. Unexercised S-SARs values in the table below and on page 178. 28
lapse without compensation.
Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) (in CHF)
S-SARs S-SARs
2015 2014
S. Ayyoubi 780,380 780,140
R. Diggelmann 780,380 780,140
A. Hippe 1,040,290 1,040,138
G. A. Keller 975,280 975,246
D. O’Day 1,300,200 1,300,280
Total 4,876,530 4,875,944
180 181
DETIDUA
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
2015 2015 2014 2014
(number) (value in CHF) (number) (value in CHF)
S. Ayyoubi 1,639 332,478 ** 1,665 419,896
R. Diggelmann 1,639 419,748 1,665 419,896
A. Hippe 2,186 312,606 * 2,220 312,621*
G. A. Keller 2,049 293,015 * 2,081 524,807
D. O’Day 2,733 699,921 2,775 699,827
Total 10,246 2 057,768 10,406 2,377,047
* Calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to an additional blocking period of 10 years, reduced market value: 55.839%.
** Calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to an additional blocking period of 4 years, reduced market value: 79.209%.
Calculation of value 2015: Number of RSUs 2015 multiplied by grant value of CHF 256.10 (NES closing price at grant date on 5 March 2015) per RSU.
Calculation of value 2014: Number of RSUs 2014 multiplied by grant value of CHF 252.19 (NES average market price over a 90 days period prior to grant
date on 6 March 2014) per RSU.
27 For further information on the trinomial model for American options: Please refer to Boyle, Phelim P.: ‘A lattice framework for options pricing
with two state variables’, The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Volume 23, Issue 1 (Mar 1988), 1–12, www.roche.com/trinomial_
model.pdf.
28 See strike prices in table 5.16.2 ‘S-SARs’, page 190.
DETIDUA
5.7 Restricted Stock Units of the other members of remuneration component partially replacing S-SARs.
the Corporate Executive Committee The value of S-SAR awards was reduced to 65% and
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)—rights to receive non- the 35% balance is awarded in the form of RSUs.
voting equity securities after a three-year vesting
period plus a value adjustment (being the amount RSU awards are allocated individually at the
equivalent to the sum of the dividend paid during the Remuneration Committee’s discretion and will be
vesting period attributable to the number of non- vested to the recipient after three years only. Thereafter,
voting equity securities for which an individual award resulting non-voting equity securities may remain
has been granted)—were introduced in 2013 as a new blocked for up to 10 years.Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
5.8 Performance Share Plan (PSP) of the other If Roche securities perform better than the average TSR of the Roche securities (NES and shares) ranked In 2016, RSUs for the Corporate Executive Committee
members of the Corporate Executive Committee of the peer set and Roche’s TSR increases at least 11th, compared with its peer set of companies operating will be replaced by awarding of additional PSPs.
The members of the Corporate Executive Committee 10% during a cycle, the Board of Directors can elect in the same industry. Therefore, according to the Therefore, the long-term incentive programmes for
and other members of senior management (currently to increase the NES award. The maximum award terms of the plan, the participants received 50% of the Corporate Executive Committee will comprise
some 150 individuals worldwide) participate in the is double the original-level reserved target number the originally targeted NES (see table on page 184 PSP and S-SAR awards, 50% each.
Performance Share Plan (PSP). of NES according to the PSP plan (starting with for details).
PSP 2013–2015 cycle plus a value adjustment being In future, PSP awards as a remuneration component
The PSP consists of overlapping three-year performance the amount equivalent to the sum of the dividend paid The calculation of the PSP values for a corresponding will be reserved for the Corporate Executive Committee
cycles, with a new cycle beginning each year. In 2015 during the vesting period attributable to the number reporting year will be newly based on the fair value and the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee.
there were thus three cycles in progress (PSP 2013– of non-voting equity securities for which an individual at grant (bearer share prices averaged over the three
2015, PSP 2014–2016 and PSP 2015–2017), whereas award has been granted) and requires that Roche months [October to December 2014] prior to the start As of 2016, the long-term incentive programmes for
PSP 2013–2015 closed on 31 December 2015 with 50% securities perform as well as or better than those of of the performance cycle 2015–2017) calculated per the previous senior management will comprise S-SAR
of the targeted NES awarded (PSP 2012–2014 per 75% of the peer set. In the event that an investment in the target amount of Roche securities over an entire and RSU awards, 50% each.
31 December 2014: 175% of the targeted NES awarded). Roche securities underperforms the average return PSP three-year cycle with no distribution to one year.
For the historical PSP performance see 3.1.5). delivered by the peer companies, fewer or no NES will This is instead of the former calculation of all three
be awarded. cycles and corresponding distribution to the reporting
Under the provisions of this plan, a number of non- year (i.e. 2 cycles disclosed at target, with the remaining
voting equity securities (NES) or bearer shares have In 2015, bearer shares were reserved under the plan cycle of the PSP based on the actual value of PSP
been reserved for the participants in each cycle. The for members of the Corporate Executive Committee vesting in the year).
number of securities actually awarded will depend on as shown in the table on page 183 and on page 178.
whether and to what extent an investment in Roche The Board of Directors will decide on the actual level
securities (shares and NES) outperforms the average of NES, bearer shares or cash equivalent awards for Performance Share Plan (PSP) (new calculation)
return on an investment in securities issued by a peer the PSP cycles 2014–2016 and 2015–2017 after the
set of peer companies 29. Comparisons are based on the close of the 2016 and 2017 financial years, respectively. 2015 2014
Fair value at grant
securities’ market prices and dividend yields, i.e. on The aim of the PSP is to provide an incentive to
per bearer share, Fair value at grant
Total Shareholder Return (TSR). To reduce the effect participants to achieve steady value growth. bearer share per NES, NES
prices averaged prices averaged
of short-term market fluctuations, security prices are
over the three over the three
averaged over the three months (October to December) At the end of the PSP 2013–2015 cycle (based on a months (October months (October
to December to December
prior to the start of a performance cycle and over the three-month average) with distributed dividends
2014) prior to Fair Value at 2013) prior to Fair value of
three months (October to December) at the end of totalling CHF 19.969 billion (2015: CHF 6.901 billion; Target number of the start of the target number of Target number the start of the target number
bearer shares for performance cycle bearer shares for of NES for PSP performance cycle of NES for PSP
the cycle. 2014: CHF 6.728 billion; 2013: CHF 6.340 billion), the PSP 2015–2017 2015–2017 PSP 2015–2017 2014–2016 2014–2016 2014–2016
(number) (value in CHF) (value in CHF) (number) (value in CHF) (value in CHF)
S. Schwan 4,872 273.66 744,485 * 5,413 246.29 744,428 *
S. Ayyoubi 1,461 273.66 399,817 1,624 246.29 399,975
R. Diggelmann 1,461 273.66 399,817 1,353 246.29 333,230
A. Hippe 1,948 273.66 533,090 2,165 246.29 533,218
G.A. Keller 1,827 273.66 499,977 2,030 246.29 499,969
D. O’Day 2,436 273.66 666,636 2,706 246.29 666,461
Total 14,005 273.66 3,243,822 15,291 246.29 3,177,281
* Calculation of value of non-voting equity securities/shares in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years (reduced market
29 See footnote 1, page 160.
value: 55.839%).
182 183
DETIDUARoche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
Performance Share Plan (PSP) (former calculation)
2015 2014
Total estimated Total estimated
Awards of 50% value 30 of PSP Awards of 175% value 30 of PSP
Target number of of targeted awards of targeted awards
Roche bearer Target number number of NES (2013–2015, number of NES (2012–2014,
shares for PSP of NES for PSP for PSP 2014–2016 and for PSP 2013–2015 and
2015–2017 2014–2016 2013–2015 2015–2017) 2012–2014 2014–2016)
(number) (number) (number) (value in CHF) (number) (value in CHF)
S. Schwan 4,872 5,413 3,657 866,375 * 15,888 2,574,419 31
S. Ayyoubi 1,461 1,624 1,097 385,472 4,765 772,206
R. Diggelmann 1,461 1,353 914 343,644 1,817 449,608
A. Hippe 1,948 2,165 1,463 513,963 6,354 1,029,601
G.A. Keller 1,827 2,030 1,371 481,886 5,957 965,252
D. O’Day 2,436 2,706 1,829 642,546 5,163 1,036,911
Total 14,005 15,291 10,331 3,233,886 39,944 6,827,997
30 Total estimated value for 2015:
a) PSP 2013–2015: Award of 50% of the originally targeted NES awarded for 2013–2015 (excluding a value adjustment to be added in NES at award),
spread over the relevant period of time, i.e. 1/3 for the year 2015, value calculated using the year-end price as at 31 December 2015, CHF 276.40 per
non-voting equity security; plus
b) PSP 2014–2016: Estimated value calculated using the year-end price as at 31 December 2015, CHF 276.40 per non-voting equity security (NES),
based on the number of NES originally targeted subject to changes in the number and value of NES awardable under the plan on 31 December 2016,
and spread over the relevant period of time, i.e. 1/3 for the year 2015, (* Calculation of value of non-voting equity securities in consideration of
reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years [reduced market value: 55.839%]); plus
c) PSP 2015–2017: Estimated value calculated using the year-end price as at 31 December 2015 CHF 276.75 per bearer share (RO), based on the
number of RO originally targeted subject to changes in the number and value of RO awardable under the plan on 31 December 2017, and spread
over the relevant period of time, i.e. 1/3 for the year 2015, (* Calculation of value of shares in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking
period of 10 years [reduced market value: 55.839%]).
The Board of Directors will vote on the actual allocation of originally targeted NES and RO on 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2017,
respectively, according to the TSR achieved.
31 Total estimated value of Annual Report 2014 for the year 2014: PSP 2012–2014: Award of 175% of the originally targeted NES awarded for 2012–2014
(15,888 NES in total), spread over the relevant period of time, i.e. 1/3 for the year 2014, value calculated using the year-end price as at 31 December
2014, CHF 269.90 per non-voting equity security. PSP 2013–2015 and 2014–2016: Estimated value calculated using the year-end price as at
31 December 2014, CHF 269.90 per non-voting equity security (NES), based on the number of NES originally targeted (7,314 NES and 5,413 NES,
respectively) subject to changes in the number and value of NES awardable under the plan on 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2016, respectively,
and spread over the relevant period of time, i.e. 1/3 for the year 2014. The Board of Directors will vote on the actual allocation of originally targeted NES
on 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2016, respectively, according to the TSR achieved.
184 185
DETIDUA
Indirect benefits (employer contributions) (in CHF)
2015 2014
Pension Payments Pension Payments
funds/ Annual for tax/tax funds/ Annual for tax/tax
MGB 32/ expense Roche consulting MGB 32/ expense Roche consulting
insurances * allowances Connect services insurances * allowances Connect services
S. Ayyoubi 98,969 30,000 15,000 3,888 90,567 30,000 15,000 2,908
R. Diggelmann 313,879 30,000 – – 303,828 30,000 – –
A. Hippe 313,879 30,000 39,996 16,556 297,829 30,000 39,996 19,488
G. A. Keller 98,969 30,000 37,500 – 439,540 30,000 37,500 –
D. O’Day 313,879 30,000 49,992 696,433 297,351 30,000 49,992 508,755
Total 1,139,575 150,000 142,488 716,877 1,429,115 150,000 142,488 531,151
* Including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts.
5.9 Indirect benefits of the other members of the Roche Connect is a voluntary stock purchase plan
Corporate Executive Committee offering employees the opportunity to buy Roche non-
Employer contributions made in 2015 to social security voting equity securities (NES) up to an amount equal
schemes, pension plans and a Group-wide employee to 10% of their annual salary at a 20% discount. NES
stock purchase plan (Roche Connect) in respect of purchased under this plan are subject to a holding
members of the Corporate Executive Committee are period, which is four years in Switzerland.
shown in the ‘Indirect benefits (employer contributions)’
table on page 185 and employer contributions as In addition, members of the Corporate Executive
shown in the table on page 178. Committee received annual expense allowances and
some members payments for foreign tax obligations
and tax consulting services as shown in the table.
DETIDUA
5.10 Other remuneration and loans of members of 5.11 Remuneration to former members of the
the Corporate Executive Committee Corporate Executive Committee
Based on contractual obligations, in 2015, Roche In 2015, pensions totalling CHF 2,049,180 (2014:
paidto individual members of the Corporate Executive CHF 2,049,180) were paid to former Corporate
Committee for their children’s schooling costs Executive Committee members.
totalling CHF 68,340 (2014: CHF 109,596).
5.12 Total remuneration paid to the members of the
All aforementioned additional payments are Corporate Executive Committee
included in the total remuneration to members of For the 2015 calendar year, the members of the
the Corporate Executive Committee. Corporate Executive Committee received remuneration
including bonuses totalling CHF 41,150,785 (2014:
In 2015, there are no loans or credits granted to the CHF 42,904,327), excluding additional employer’s
members of the Corporate Executive Committee. contribution paid to AHV/IV/ALV totalling
CHF 3,688,642 (2014: CHF 3,397,928) that does
The maximum regular period of notice for members not form part of compensation.
of the Corporate Executive Committee is 12 months.
There are no change-of-control clauses in the
employment contracts.
32 MGB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing occupational
pension benefits).
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
Roche paid legally required employer’s contributions for the members of the Corporate Executive Committee
of total CHF 2,339,000 (2014: CHF 2,136,332) to Swiss beside the legally required contributions separately
social security programmes providing retirement, stated for the CEO.
disability and unemployment benefits (AHV/IV/ALV)Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
No additional remuneration other than the above bonuses (for Severin Schwan in form of Roche shares Prospective approvals of the members of the Executive Committee’s total future aggregate remuneration (in CHF) *
mentioned payments was paid to current or former which are blocked for 10 years, for all other members
members of the Corporate Executive Committee. of the Corporate Executive Committee as a 100% cash Proposal AGM 2016 AGM 2015 AGM 2014
payment, see 5.5) totalling CHF 12,726,984 in respect Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for
5.13 Executive remuneration subject to approval at of the 2015 financial year (2014: CHF 10,440,136), the period the period the period
the Annual General Meeting excluding legally required employer’s contributions AGM 2016–AGM 2017 AGM 2015–AGM 2016 AGM 2014–AGM 2015
to AHV/IV/ALV, and will submit this proposed total Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/
5.13.1 Submission of Executive total aggregate amount to the ordinary Annual General Meeting approved by the AGM 41,000,000 37,000,000 36,000,000
bonuses for a binding vote at the Annual General (AGM) 2016 for a binding vote.
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses.
Meeting
The Board of Directors proposes awarding the
members of the Corporate Executive Committee 5.13.3 Reconciliation of the reported remuneration excluding bonuses) for the period ending at the 2015
with the shareholders’ prospectively approved ordinary AGM.
remuneration for the members of the Corporate
Retrospective approvals of the members of the Executive Committee’s total aggregate bonuses (in CHF) * Executive Committee For comparison, from 2014 ordinary AGM to ordinary
The 2014 ordinary AGM approved remuneration for 2015 AGM remuneration amounted to CHF 34,004,297
Proposal AGM 2016 AGM 2015 AGM 2014 the Corporate Executive Committee totalling not (excluding legally required employer’s contributions to
Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for more than CHF 36,000,000 (excluding legally required AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses. PSP: Assumption
financial year 2015 financial year 2014 financial year 2013 employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and of maximum value).
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/
approved by the AGM 12,726,984 10,440,136 9,316,780
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV.
Prospectively approved total remuneration of the members of the Executive Committee in comparison to total
remuneration (in CHF) *
5.13.2 Submission of Executive total future The amount of Executive total future aggregate
Total remuneration Total remuneration Total remuneration
aggregate remuneration for a binding shareholder remuneration is composed of base pay, long-term for the period for the period for the period
vote incentives S-SARs (calculated at grant value without AGM 2015–AGM 2016 AGM 2014–AGM 2015 AGM 2013–AGM 2014
The Board of Directors proposes that the 2016 considering reductions of value due to blocking Approval not yet
ordinary AGM approve remuneration for the periods if applicable) and PSP (calculated at the time Maximum of total remuneration approved by the AGM 37,000,000 36,000,000 required
Corporate Executive Committee totalling not more of reservation of non-voting equity securities or shares Total remuneration Calculation at end of period 34,004,297 32,094,464
than CHF 41,000,000 (excluding legally required and taking into account their maximal potential to Within the approved limit Yes/No Calculation at end of period Yes –
employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and double), contributions to pension benefits (excluding Additional amount paid for new members of the
excluding bonuses) for the period ending at the legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ Corporate Executive Committee after approval by
2017 ordinary AGM. ALV) as well as contributions for expenses, payments the AGM and not within the approved total amount No No –
for tax consulting services and Roche Connect.
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses.
186 187Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
5.14 Clawback According to the regulations of the PSP programme, 5.16.1 Shares and non-voting equity securities (NES)
In addition to applicable statutory provisions, Roche’s the originally targeted but not awarded NES or shares
(as at 31 December 2015) (as at 31 December 2014)
long-term incentive plans include the option to partially shall lapse without any compensation upon notice of
Close relatives’ Close relatives’
reclaim distributed compensation as a result of special termination of employment being given for any reason
Shares NES security holdings Shares NES security holdings
circumstances (clawback). other than redundancy, disability or retirement. (number) (number) (number/type) (number) (number) (number/type)
Corporate
If the employee voluntarily serves notice of termination 5.15 Guidelines for security holdings Executive
of employment, S-SARs and RSUs which are unvested In 2012, the Board of Directors decided that the CEO Committee
at the date of termination of employment lapse and other CEC members must acquire shares and/or S. Schwan 115,745 16,179 – 91,279 14,065 –
immediately without any compensation. NES equivalent to two annual base salaries (CEO) and S. Ayyoubi 12,622 13,223 – 8,104 12,923 –
one annual base salary, respectively, by the end of 2016 R. Diggelmann – 870 – – 853 –
Upon termination of employment as a result of serious and retain these holdings for as long as they serve on A. Hippe 6,970 9,370 – 6,970 8,184 –
misconduct all S-SARs and RSUs granted and the CEC. With the exception of Roland Diggelmann G.A. Keller 19,192 12,897 1,100 shares 19,192 7,638 1,100 shares
outstanding, whether vested or unvested, shall lapse all members of the Corporate Executive Committee D. O’Day 3,065 8,143 – 3 7,149 –
immediately without any compensation. According already fulfil this requirement. Total 157,594 60,682 1,100 shares 125,548 50,812 1,100 shares
to the S-SARs plan rules, serious misconduct by the
participant may include (inter alia): 5.16 Security holdings
• activity leading to serious disciplinary action As at 31 December 2015 (as at 31 December 2014,
• repeated or willful failure to perform such duties respectively) the members of the CEC and persons
as have been reasonably assigned by Roche closely associated with them held securities as
• violation of any law or public regulation shown in the table ‘Shares and non-voting equity
• commission of a crime securities (NES)’, ‘S-SARs’, ‘Restricted Stock Units
• gross negligence or willful misconduct in (RSUs)’ below.
employment
• engaging in conduct bringing disgrace or disrepute
to Roche and/or any of its subsidiaries
• violation of any of Roche’s directives and guidelines
relating to business conduct
Type of security Value to be acquired
CEO Shares and/or NES 2 × annual base salary
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee Shares and/or NES 1 × annual base salary
188 189
DETIDUARoche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
190 191
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
5.16.2 S-SARs 5.16.3 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
Number of S-SARs held on 31 December 2015 Number of RSUs held on 31 December 2015
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2015 2014 2013
Corporate Executive Corporate Executive
Committee Committee
S. Schwan 59,997 54,453 71,472 20,000 – – S. Schwan 5,466 5,551 7,023
S. Ayyoubi 18,006 16,338 21,441 49,161 – – S. Ayyoubi 1,639 1,665 2,107
R. Diggelmann 18,006 16,338 17,874 15,000 12,732 6,489 33 R. Diggelmann 1,639 1,665 1,755
A. Hippe 24,003 21,783 28,590 – – – A. Hippe 2,186 2,220 2,809
G. A. Keller 22,503 20,424 26,805 20,000 – – G. A. Keller 2,049 2,081 2,633
D. O’Day 30,000 27,231 35,739 – – – D. O’Day 2,733 2,775 3,511
Total 172,515 156,567 201,921 104,161 12,732 6,489 Total 15,712 15,957 19,838
Grant value per RSU CHF 256.10 CHF 252.19 CHF 199.33
Price (CHF) 256.10 263.20 214.00 157.50 140.10 175.50 (NES closing price at grant (NES average market price over a (NES average market price over a
date on 5 March 2015) 90 days period prior to grant date 90 days period prior to grant date
Market price per NES on 276.40
on 6 March 2014) on 7 March 2013)
31 December 2015 (CHF)
Expiry date 5.3.2022 6.3.2021 7.3.2020 8.3.2019 28.2.2018 4.2.2017
Grant value per S-SAR (CHF) 43.34 47.75 * 36.38 * 24.41 * 15.38 * 23.05 *
Since 1.1.2012:
— Trinomial model for American
call options
* V alues according to
corresponding annual reports
33 Options held in his former position: All of the options shown in the table were issued by Roche as employee stock options. Each option entitles the
holder to purchase one Roche non-voting equity security (NES). Under the terms of this multi-year option plan, the strike price for options shown was
the closing price for Roche NES at grant date. All of the options shown are non-tradable. 1/3 of the options are subject to a vesting period of one year,
1/3 have a vesting period of two years, and 1/3 a vesting period of three years. Unvested options lapse without compensation if employment is
terminated voluntarily (for reasons other than retirement), while vested options must be exercised within a limited period of time.Roche | Report of the Statutory Auditor Report of the Statutory Auditor | Roche
Report of the Statutory Auditor to the applied to value components of remuneration, as
well as assessing the overall presentation of the
remuneration report.
General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd,
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained
Basel is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
our opinion.
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying remuneration Auditor’s responsibility In our opinion, the remuneration report for the
report dated 26 January 2016 of Roche Holding Ltd Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the year ended 31 December 2015 of Roche Holding Ltd
for the year ended 31 December 2015. The audit was accompanying remuneration report. We conducted complies with Swiss law and articles 14–16 of
limited to the information according to articles 14–16 our audit in accordance with Swiss Auditing the Ordinance.
of the Ordinance against Excessive compensation in Standards. Those standards require that we comply
Stock Exchange Listed Companies (Ordinance) with ethical requirements and plan and perform the
contained in the sections marked with a blue line, audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
including the respective footnotes, on pages 156 to the remuneration report complies with Swiss law and
191 of the remuneration report. articles 14–16 of the Ordinance.
KPMG AG
Responsibility of the Board of Directors An audit involves performing procedures to obtain
The Board of Directors is responsible for the audit evidence on the disclosures made in the
preparation and overall fair presentation of the remuneration report with regard to compensation,
remuneration report in accordance with Swiss law loans and credits in accordance with articles 14–16 of
and the Ordinance against Excessive compensation the Ordinance. The procedures selected depend on the
in Stock Exchange Listed Companies. The Board auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the
of Directors is also responsible for designing the risks of material misstatements in the remuneration Ian Starkey Marc Ziegler
remuneration system and defining individual report, whether due to fraud or error. This audit also Licensed Audit Expert Licensed Audit Expert
remuneration packages. includes evaluating the reasonableness of the methods Auditor in Charge
Basel, 26 January 2016
192 193Roche | Independent Assurance Report Independent Assurance Report | Roche
procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. process, determination of impacted stakeholders, peer and
Consequently, the nature, timing and extent of procedures for competition review, integration of relevant regulatory
gathering sufficient appropriate evidence are deliberately requirements, integration of key organisational values and
limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement and objectives and report prioritisation of material aspects; and
therefore less assurance is obtained with a limited assurance Inspecting the integration of the sustainability risks and
Independent Assurance Report on the engagement than for a reasonable assurance engagement. opportunities in the Group Risk Management Process and
its adherence to the internal guidelines;
The procedures selected depend on the assurance practitioner’s • Assessment of the processes and data consolidation
Roche Sustainability Reporting
judgement. Reviewing the management of/and sustainability reporting
processes for SHE, contributions and people key figures; and
Our Independence and Quality Control Assessing the consolidation process of data at Roche
To the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee Environmental Protection reporting guidelines published by We have complied with the independence and other ethical Group level.
of Roche Holding AG, Basel (‘Roche’). the European Chemical Industry Council CEFIC and the requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional
‘Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4’ published in 2013 Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards We have not carried out any work on data reported for prior
We have been engaged to perform assurance procedures by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI); Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental reporting periods, nor have we performed work in respect of
to provide limited assurance on the aspects of the 2015 • The Roche Group internal Corporate Reporting Manual, principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence projections and targets. We have not conducted any work on
sustainability reporting of Roche included in the Annual Version 2015.3 ‘Group Reporting Manual—Sustainability and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. data other than outlined in the subject matter as defined above.
Report 2015 (‘Report’). Reporting’; Our firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1
• The Roche materiality determination process based on the and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
Scope and Subject matter ‘Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4’ published in 2013 control including documented policies and procedures appropriate to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions.
Our limited assurance engagement focused on the following by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI); regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional
data and information disclosed in the sustainability reporting • The defined guidelines, by which SHE, people and standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Conclusion
of Roche and its consolidated subsidiaries for the year ended contributions key figures, and sustainability risks and Based on our work performed and described in this report
on December 31, 2015: opportunities are internally gathered, collated and Summary of work performed on the identified sustainability Reporting 2015 nothing has
• The management of reporting processes with respect to aggregated. Our assurance procedures included, amongst others, the come to our attention causing us to believe that in all
the sustainability reporting in all material aspects and the The accuracy and completeness of sustainability indicators are following work: material respects:
preparation of Safety, Security, Health and Environmental subject to inherent limitations given their nature and methods • Evaluation of the application of Roche Group guidelines • the Roche Group internal sustainability reporting guidelines
protection (‘SHE’), people key figures as well as the related for determining, calculating and estimating such data. Our Reviewing the application of the Roche Group internal based on the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines as
control environment in relation to the data aggregation of assurance report should therefore be read in connection with corporate sustainability and contributions guidelines; well as the CEFIC Guidelines are not applied;
these key figures; Roche’s internal guidelines, definitions and procedures on • Site visits and management inquiry • the internal reporting processes to collect and aggregate SHE
• The SHE key figures (including greenhouse gas emissions the reporting of its sustainability performance. Visiting selected sites of Roche’s Pharmaceuticals and people data are not functioning as designed and provide
for scope 1 & 2 and scope 3 resulting from business travel, and Diagnostics divisions in the USA, Canada, UK and an appropriate basis for its disclosure;
compressed air and liquid nitrogen) in the tables and graphs Responsibility and Methodology China. The selection was based on quantitative and • the internal reporting processes to collect and aggregate
on pages 114 to 131 and people key figures disclosed on The Roche Corporate Governance and Sustainability qualitative criteria; contributions data are not functioning as designed and
pages 104 to 113 of the Report; Committee is responsible for both the subject matter and the Interviewing personnel responsible for internal sustainability provide an appropriate basis for its disclosure;
• The consolidated data and information on the Roche Group criteria as well as for selection, preparation and presentation reporting and data collection at the sites we visited and at the • the Roche materiality determination process as disclosed
level in relation to the contributions breakdown, disclosed of the selected information in accordance with the criteria. Roche Group level to determine the understanding and does not adhere to the principles and guiding factors (e.g.
on page 98 and 99 of the Report; Our responsibility is to form an independent opinion, based application of Roche’s internal sustainability guidelines; soundness, stakeholder determination, peer review, relevance
• The materiality determination process of Roche at group level on our limited assurance procedures, on whether anything • Assessment of the key figures of regulatory environment, integration of key organisational
according to the requirements of the GRI G4 guidelines and has come to our attention to indicate that the identified Performing tests on a sample basis of evidence supporting values and objectives) defined with GRI G4;
disclosed on pages 4 and 5 of the Report; sustainability information selected and contained in this report selected SHE, contributions and people key figures (i.e. • the design of the sustainability risks and opportunities
• The design of the sustainability risks and opportunities is not stated, in all material respects, in accordance with the Roche accident rate, energy consumption, greenhouse gas determination process at corporate level as disclosed does
determination process based on Roche corporate-level reporting criteria. emissions related to energy consumption, halogenated not function as designed; and
activities, disclosed on page 97 in the paragraph ‘Assessing hydrocarbons, water, waste, contributions to healthcare • the sustainability information mentioned in the subject
sustainability risks and opportunities’ of the Report; and We planned and performed our procedures in accordance with institutions, patient organizations, public policy bodies, matter and disclosed within the sustainability reporting
• The people key figures disclosed on Roche’s website within the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE and philanthropic organizations, headcount/FTE data, in the Roche Annual Report 2015 and on the referenced
the section ‘Non-Financial Reporting’ under sub-section 3000) (revised) ‘Assurance engagements other than audits or and training hours) concerning completeness, accuracy, section of the webpage is not stated, in accordance with
‘Value for Employees’. reviews of historical financial information’. This standard adequacy and consistency; the reporting criteria.
requires that we comply with ethical requirements, plan and • Inspection of documentation and analysis of relevant
Criteria perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance policies and principles Zurich, 28 January 2016
The management reporting processes with respect to the on the identified sustainability information. Inspecting relevant documentation on a sample basis, PricewaterhouseCoopers AG
sustainability reporting and key figures were assessed against including Roche Group sustainability policies, management
the internal policies and procedures as set forth in the A limited assurance engagement under ISAE 3000 (revised) of reporting structures and documentation;
following: is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance Inspecting the principles of the Roche materiality process
• The Roche Group internal sustainability reporting guidelines engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, providing the definition for the development of its adherence
based on the Responsible Care Health, Safety and including an understanding of internal control, and the to GRI’s environmental, social and economic reporting
requirements addressing the soundness of the identification Christophe Bourgoin Bettina Buomberger
194 195Roche | Imprint Imprint | Roche
Published by Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd statements
Group Communications This Annual Report contains certain forward-
4070 Basel, Switzerland looking statements. These forward-looking statements
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 11 11 may be identified by words such as ‘believes,’ ‘expects,’
www.roche.com ‘anticipates,’ ‘projects,’ ‘intends,’ ‘should,’ ‘seeks,’
‘estimates,’ ‘future’ or similar expressions or by
To order publications discussion of, among other things, strategy, goals,
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 30 61 plans or intentions. Various factors may cause actual
Fax +41 (0)61 688 41 96 results to differ materially in the future from those
E-mail: basel.webmaster@roche.com reflected in forward-looking statements contained in
this Annual Report, among others: (1) pricing and
Media Relations product initiatives of competitors; (2) legislative and
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 88 88 regulatory developments and economic conditions; The statement regarding earnings per share growth is The Roche Annual Report is published in German
E-mail: roche.mediarelations@roche.com (3) delay or inability in obtaining regulatory approvals not a profit forecast and should not be interpreted to and English.
or bringing products to market; (4) fluctuations in mean that Roche’s earnings or earnings per share for
Investor Relations currency exchange rates and general financial 2016 or any subsequent period will necessarily match The report consists of the actual Annual Report
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 88 80 market conditions; (5) uncertainties in the discovery, or exceed the historical published earnings or and of the Finance Report and contains the
E-mail: investor.relations@roche.com development or marketing of new products or new earnings per share of Roche. Annual Report, the Annual Financial Statements
uses of existing products, including without limitation and the Consolidated Financial Statements as per
Corporate Sustainability Committee negative results of clinical trials or research projects, All trademarks mentioned enjoy legal protection. the Articles of Incorporation in the sense of a
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 40 18 unexpected side effects of pipeline or marketed management reporting.
E-mail: corporate.sustainability@roche.com products; (6) increased government pricing pressures; Links to third-party pages are provided for
(7) interruptions in production; (8) loss of or inability convenience only. We do not express any opinion on Printed on non-chlorine bleached, FSC-certified paper.
Next Annual General Meeting: to obtain adequate protection for intellectual property the content of any third-party pages and expressly
1 March 2016 rights; (9) litigation; (10) loss of key executives or disclaim any liability for all third-party information Communications.
other employees; and (11) adverse publicity and and the use of it.
news coverage.
196 197We believe it’s urgent to deliver medical
solutions right now—even as we develop
innovations for the future. We are passionate
about transforming patients’ lives. We are
courageous in both decision and action.
And we believe that good business means
a better world.
That is why we come to work each day.
We commit ourselves to scientific rigour,
unassailable ethics, and access to medical
innovations for all. We do this today to
build a better tomorrow.
We are proud of who we are, what we do,
and how we do it. We are many, working
as one across functions, across companies,
and across the world.
We are Roche.F.Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd
4070 Basel, Switzerland
© 2016
All trademarks are legally protected.
www.roche.com
7 000 982 E
Roche
|
Annual
Report
2015
AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt
22001155
P A T I E N T S P E O P L E P A R T N E R S
From improving diagnostics to Keeping pace with our emerging Helping to drive innovation, new
advancing medicine, important market growth, we met our goal collaborations, such as the strate-
pipeline news included clearance of increasing the representation gic partnership established with
of our molecular point-of-care of people with established and Foundation Medicine, provide
Strep A test and positive late-stage developing regions experience new possibilities in R&D and im-
study results in multiple sclerosis. in key leadership roles. proving patient care.