W ho we are
Annual Report
Innovation: It’s in our DNA. We have always worked across
disciplines and geographies to drive scientific discovery and
redefine what is possible to improve patients’ lives.
2016
We are working on understanding how diseases also the world leader in the in vitro diagnostics
differ down to the molecular level. So we can business. This track record allows us to build lasting
develop new tests and medicines that prevent, and meaningful partnerships across the world with
diagnose and treat diseases, and bring them to the research academia and public healthcare institutions.
patients who need them. With our combined
strengths in diagnostics and pharmaceuticals, our The founding families continue to hold the majority
P A T I E N T S I N N O V A T I O N P A R T N E R S
personalised healthcare strategy aims to fit the voting stake in the company. This stability allows for
We recently launched four new We were granted five breakthrough Together with our partners, we right treatment to the right patient. a tradition of sustainable thinking, so we can learn
cancer treatments, with our first therapy designations by the US made great strides in overcoming from setbacks and focus on lasting value for patients
cancer immunotherapy medicine Food and Drug Administration barriers to healthcare by developing As the world’s largest biotech company, we develop and society. We remain dedicated to the highest
Tecentriq giving new hope to for our medicines, and added nine 60 local access plans that are fully breakthrough medicines, improving the standard standards of quality, safety and integrity. Our legacy
people with specific types of key diagnostic instruments and integrated in our local business of care across oncology, immunology, infectious is based on respect for the individual as well as the
bladder and lung cancer. tests to our rich portfolio. plans. diseases, ophthalmology and neuroscience. We are communities and the world we live in.Roche’s global presence Highlights
94,052
Redefining treatment in oncology Transforming laboratory work
employees* worldwide Basel and Kaiseraugst, Switzerland ( ) Cancer immunotherapy Tecentriq available against cobas e 801 platform launched for faster and simpler
Mannheim and Penzberg, Germany ( ) bladder and lung cancer laboratory testing
Read more on page 29 Read more on page 38
North America Europe
25,494 employees 40,869 employees
Recognised for innovation Managing rare blood disorder
Five breakthrough therapy designations granted by the Potential new medicine emicizumab significantly reducing
US Food and Drug Administration number of bleeds in a group of people with haemophilia A
Read more on page 8 Read more on page 50
Chugai, Tokyo,
Japan ( )
Partnering to improve care Contributing to sustainability
Formal agreements signed with several sub-Saharan Roche ranked most sustainable healthcare company in the
S hanghai, countries to improve access to healthcare Dow Jones Sustainability Indices for the eighth year running
China ( )
Genentech, San Francisco, Read more on page 64 Read more on page 11
USA ( )
Asia Key figures
21,235 employees
Latin America
4,587 employees
CHF 50,576 million CHF 9,915 million
Africa Australia/New Zealand
1,166 employees 701 employees Group sales +4%** Research and development investments +5%**
22 26 CHF 8.20 311,726 patients
Research and development sites Manufacturing sites Dividend participating in clinical trials
in Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics worldwide in Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics worldwide
27 million patients 29 Roche medicines
Roche Group headquarters
Largest sites based on number of employees treated with one of our top 25 medicines on the WHO List of Essential Medicines
Research and development sites in Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics
Manufacturing sites in Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics
Sales sites in Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics
* Number of employees expressed in full-time equivalents ** All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2015).12
Contents
Overview
06 Our strategy
08 Market environment
14 Chairman’s shareholder letter
20 CEO’s shareholder letter
42 56
Business performance
28 Group performance
30 Pharmaceuticals performance
36 Diagnostics performance
Science and innovation
47 At the forefront of finding cures for cancer
48 Progress in our pipeline
66
Access to healthcare
60 A complex challenge
64 A focus on partnerships for progress in Africa
Our people
72 Developing our leaders
74 Attracting and retaining the best talent
Safety, health and environment
80 Ensuring occupational health and safety
76 88
81 Minimising our ecological footprint
Community engagement
92 Providing long-term disaster relief
93 Investing in education
Integrity in business
102 Patient safety comes first
104 A matter of engagement
96
Corporate governance
111 Board of Directors
112 Corporate Executive Committee
Remuneration report
126 Principles
130 Remuneration components
106Roche | Our reporting approach Our reporting approach | Roche
Our reporting approach
We are committed to transparent reporting and we endeavour
Materiality
In accordance with the GRI G4 guidelines, we
to drive our economic, social and environmental performance Our 21 material topics
conducted a materiality analysis at the corporate Materiality:
level in 2014. We gathered input and feedback through roche.com/
with the same diligence as our financial performance.
various internal and external sources, conferences, as · Drug efficacy, safety and counterfeiting materiality
well as regular interviews and one-on-one discussions · Biosimilar safety
between Roche experts and key stakeholders. This · Disease awareness and treatment education Key performance
enabled us to include the topics from those stakeholder · Patient organisation support indicators:
Reporting scope and boundaries A consolidated Group Risk Report, which covers groups that we consider most important to our business · Product portfolio strategy roche.com/
We provide integrated information about our financial all material risks, is discussed annually with the and to the healthcare sector: patient organisations, · Patent policies performance
Online Annual and non-financial performance in our Annual Report, Corporate Executive Committee and reviewed by employees, media, investors, payers, regulators · Data transparency on clinical trials
Report 2016: our Finance Report, as well as in our online report, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and and governments. · R&D pipeline strategy and personalised
roche.com/ar16 which cover all regions and divisions from 1 January by the Board of Directors itself. The effectiveness of healthcare
to 31 December 2016. the risk management process is regularly monitored In a final step, we combined the various insights and · Sustainable healthcare
Roche Annual by the Group Risk Advisory team, and the overall identified 21 material topics that stood out as highly · Growth strategy in emerging and
Report 2016 (PDF): The reporting scope is defined and outlined in our process is reviewed externally when appropriate. relevant to us and to our key stakeholders, and which developed markets
roche.com/ar16e.pdf Finance Report, and there have been no significant have a significant impact on our long-term success. · Pricing
changes in scope in 2016 compared to 2015. Risk management is embedded at all levels of · Employee engagement and talent retention
Roche Finance the Group: Our Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics These 21 material topics are reflected in our business · Executive compensation
Report 2016 (PDF): Reporting in accordance with the latest GRI Divisions and global functions conduct a formal priorities, in the report content (highlighted at the · Compensation/benefits
roche.com/fb16e.pdf guidelines risk assessment process at least once a year and beginning of each chapter), as well as in aspect · Leadership commitments
Since 2014, we have followed the GRI G4 guidelines must develop risk plans for their most material risks. boundaries according to the GRI. · Organisational effectiveness
GRI G4 Index: (Global Reporting Initiative), with disclosure at core Group Risk Advisory facilitates risk discussions to · Compliance
roche.com/gri-index application level. We also report a number of additional support the business in many specialist areas such We build concrete actions relating to these topics into · Environmental responsibility
indicators beyond the requirements for core level as digital media, IT security, as well as compliance our operational activities, and measure performance · Occupational accidents
Risk management: which are listed in the online GRI G4 Index. and sustainability. Training sessions and platforms through defined indicators. The process and the · Community engagement
roche.com/risk- have been established to help employees manage, results of our materiality analysis have been endorsed · Supply chain management
management Risk management monitor and mitigate risks appropriately. by the Roche Corporate Sustainability Committee
Our Risk Management Policy sets out our approach and by our Chief Executive Officer.
to identifying, managing and reporting internal and Read more in ‘Corporate governance’ on page 116
external risks and opportunities. We also identify See ‘Our strategy’ on page 6
business sustainability risks and opportunities on External assurance
an annual basis and integrate these into our existing Our current Annual Report includes an independent
risk management process. assurance report on our non-financial reporting,
prepared by PricewaterhouseCoopers AG.
See ‘Independent assurance report’ on page 152
2 3Roche | SDGs SDGs | Roche
Increasing access to healthcare Supporting communities
Our aim is for every person who needs our medicines and We support programmes that result in lasting improvements and
diagnostic tests to be able to access and benefit from them. sustainable benefits for the communities in which we operate.
· Through our HIV Global Access Programme, we are partnering with · In 2016, we started a partnership with the Maharishi Institute in
international organisations to offer sustainable solutions for HIV viral South Africa to cover the university education costs of 50 students.
load tests in eligible low- and middle-income countries. To date, over · With Futurelab, a Genentech science education programme developed
seven million infants have been tested. in partnership with the South San Francisco Unified School District,
· In 2016, we signed a Memorandum of Understanding with several countries we support science education from elementary school to high school.
in sub-Saharan Africa to help patients get better access to healthcare.
Our contribution to sustainability Read more in our ‘Access to healthcare’ chapter on page 58 Read more in our ‘Community engagement’ chapter on page 90
We have been committed to sustainability for 120 years and
contribute to a number of the 17 United Nations Sustainable
Fostering diversity and inclusion Meeting high standards of business ethics
Development Goals.
We strive to create a work environment that includes all facets We know that integrity is the foundation of our business. It is
of diversity. our ‘license to operate’ and key to our ability to make a lasting
impact on public health.
· We pioneered a programme providing opportunities for high-potential
In September 2015, the United Nations General We are at the forefront in developing effective women to systematically acquire sponsorship for valuable feedback · Roche supports and respects human rights and has implemented Human rights:
Assembly unanimously adopted 17 Sustainable therapies and diagnostic tools to diagnose, treat and further career progression. the ‘Protect, Respect, Remedy’ approach from the UN Human Rights roche.com/
Our contribution Development Goals (SDGs) to end poverty, protect and monitor cancer and neurological disorders. · We support international assignments. Over one in four of those Council’s Ruggie Framework. human_rights
to the UN SDGs: the planet, and ensure prosperity for all as part of assignments are to and from developing regions. · Employees complete mandatory training to ensure they understand
roche.com/un-sdgs the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda. This One objective of SDG3 is to achieve universal health our Group Code of Conduct, including how to voice their compliance
agreement marked an important milestone in the coverage, which is a prerequisite to achieving better concerns over business practices or behaviour.
next phase of sustainable development, with the access to safe, effective and high-quality medicines
engagement of a wide range of stakeholders. and diagnostic tests for all. By developing innovative Read more in our ‘Our people chapter’ on page 68 Read more in our ‘Integrity in business’ chapter on page 98
approaches in collaboration with international and
We are committed to supporting the SDGs in line with local players, we strive to break down the access
our business strategy; in particular SDG3, which aims barriers for many patients around the world,
at ensuring healthy lives and promoting wellbeing for supporting the universal healthcare coverage goal.
all. Beyond communicable diseases such as tuberculosis
and malaria, non-communicable diseases, including On the next page, we list selected examples of our
cancer and mental disorders, are also now universally contribution to a number of SDGs. Minimising our environmental footprint
recognised as areas of high unmet medical need. Our aim is to minimise our ecological footprint and to increase
the use of renewable resources while continuing to expand our
global business.
· Our goal is to reduce energy consumption by 15% by 2025, compared
to 2015 levels.
· We also plan to increase the proportion of sustainable energy to 20%
by 2020, compared to 2015 levels.
Read more in our ‘Safety, health and environment’ chapter on page 78
4 5Roche | Our strategy Our strategy | Roche
Our strateg y
What we do
We focus on finding new medicines and diagnostics that help
patients live longer, better lives and evolve the practice of medicine.
Our focus Our people
Fitting treatments to patients Making their mark
We are guided by our purpose: Doing now what of molecular biology, the seamless integration of
patients need next. Our company has a 120-year our pharmaceutical and diagnostics capabilities,
history of advancing the field of medicine and a diversity of approaches to maximise innovation,
bringing novel treatments and diagnostics to patients. and a long-term orientation.
The patient is and will remain at the core of what we
do, the reason we come to work every day. Our delivery is to create value for all our stakeholders:
Our distinctiveness Our decision-making being a partner of choice; bringing significant medical
Excellence in science Accountable and transparent benefit for patients, doctors and payers; offering a great
What we do
place to work for employees; having a sustainable
impact on society; and creating top-quartile total
Our focus is on fitting treatments to patients: shareholder return for our investors.
providing the right therapy for the right group
of people at the right time. With our in-house
How we do it
Our delivery Our structure combination of Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics,
Value for all stakeholders Built for innovation we are uniquely positioned to deliver personalised
healthcare. We are also developing our internal In the end, it takes people with integrity, courage
capabilities and building strategic partnerships and passion to make a difference for patients. It is
ready for the next stage in personalised healthcare: our people who are proud to say: We are Roche. We
How we do it to combine insights from multiple data sources with embrace the diversity of cultures and people across
sophisticated analytics to drive more effective and the Group. We are inclusive and encourage the
efficient research and allow for better decisions richness of ideas and approaches this brings.
for patients.
Our decision-making principles and processes
We will continue to concentrate our energies emphasise transparent dialogue, clear accountability,
entirely on prescription medicines and in vitro and encourage a high degree of empowerment.
diagnostics, rather than diversify into other sectors
like generics, over-the-counter medicines and Our structure is built for innovation. Our autonomous
medical devices. research and development centres and alliances with
over 200 external partners foster diversity and agility.
In our pursuit of excellence in science, our Our global geographical scale and reach enables us to
distinctiveness rests on four key elements: an bring our diagnostics and medicines quickly to people
exceptionally broad and deep understanding who need them.
6 7Roche | Market environment Market environment | Roche
Rapidly changing market environment
Beyond the tablet—towards digitisation
Between 2000 and 2015, life expectancy increased new medicines to market. At the same time, we
globally by five years—the fastest increase since the continued to invest into the future, which yielded
1960s.1 However, healthcare quality is improving five breakthrough therapy designations (BTDs) Every year, heart attacks kill seven million people2. A quick and accurate diagnosis can make the difference between life and death.
too slowly to cope with ageing populations and the granted by the US FDA for our medicines in 2016
growing number of patients with one or more chronic alone. Established in 2012, the BTD accelerates
diseases.2 In the light of demographic changes, we the development and review of medicines that may
as a leading healthcare company can make a decisive demonstrate substantial improvement over existing Preventive care is also gaining in importance, testing options across all stages of treatment. Such a
contribution to higher-quality diagnosis and therapies. All these achievements testify to the high leading to increased focus on diagnosis, monitoring laboratory system generates a wealth of data, allowing
treatment. Breakthroughs in biology and technology level of innovation we are pursuing in our research and prevention. Technological advances drive the physicians to provide patients with holistic, accurate
are opening up new ways to improve and save patients’ and development activities, which, together with opportunities to connect different instruments and and precise diagnoses, as well as prevention and
lives. Even as healthcare budgets are under increasing Genentech, Chugai and various external alliances, platforms. Hospitals, for example, need to be able treatment solutions—all at a faster pace.
pressure, the changing healthcare landscape offers reflect a broad range of approaches to science. to connect devices and healthcare IT solutions for
untold opportunities for research-focused healthcare centralised monitoring and real-time data analysis.3 Addressing the needs of policy-makers and
companies with extensive know-how. As the environment is changing rapidly, so new regulators
challenges and opportunities will arise. Our diversity Roche is well positioned to capitalise on technological The debate on access to healthcare and pricing and
Regional gains in average life expectancy in years of approaches, our ideas and our agility will help us progress. Having Diagnostics and Pharmaceuticals reimbursement has been gaining momentum in policy
to turn these opportunities into successes. under one roof has enabled us to leverage our molecular discussions across the world. The arrival of highly
Years
biology expertise. The future will see us integrating effective hepatitis C medicines and a steady stream
7
Gaining knowledge by data management real-world data and creating insights from those of targeted cancer medicines are raising concerns
6
Scientific and medical expertise is critical to data, both for research and development purposes about affordability. Payers increasingly claim that the
5
4 identifying effective treatment options. Modern and to support better treatment decisions and patient funding challenges induced by expensive innovative
3 molecular diagnostic tools have helped guide care. This rationale drives our collaborations with medicines will soon become insurmountable.
2 appropriate therapy by identifying specific drug Foundation Medicine and Flatiron Health, enabling
1 targets in the body, thus offering the prospect of us to better leverage data and advanced analytics to Governments have responded to these challenges
0 personalised healthcare. The digital revolution has improve both the development of medicines and in various ways. In many countries, for example,
Africa America Southeast Asia Europe the potential to transform healthcare. Therapy decisions in patient care. guidelines for the approval of biosimilars have been
1970–1990 2000–2015 outcome data from clinical practice will be adopted or are under discussion. In addition, there
Source: OECD, Health at a Glance 2015, 2015. increasingly digitised and analysed, in addition With our latest advances in diagnostics technology, are also a growing number of health technology
Regions as defined by the World Health Organization. to existing data sets derived from clinical trials. we are working to develop a laboratory where different assessment agencies around the world. They assess
This development enables small patient groups to instruments and platforms are connected with each evidence regarding clinical effectiveness, safety,
We have translated our know-how into a number of be related to specific therapy outcomes, and will other: One single system will enable a vast set of and cost-effectiveness.
medicines and tests with significant benefit for patients result in even more effective treatment approaches.
and the healthcare system. We recently brought four
1 World Health Statistics: Monitoring Health for the SDGs, 2016. | 2 roche.com/valueofinnovation-step-2 |
3 Frost & Sullivan, Healthcare and Medical Device Connectivity and Interoperability, 2015.
8 9Roche | Market environment Market environment | Roche
The US remain the key growth driver
We appreciate that payers ask for more evidence about number of facilities can help to reduce operational US outperformed market growth after patent cliff
the effectiveness of a new medicine so that they can complexity and cost while maintaining compliance.
Pharma market growth in % for the pharmaceutical industry.
more effectively manage potential budgetary impact In order to more effectively meet increasing demand 20
these treatments might have. We try to address these for our products and deliver our strong pipeline of
needs with risk-sharing agreements. By addressing the innovative new medicines, we are expanding our 15
needs of payers, we aim to help patients gain access to global biologics manufacturing network. At the Building and maintaining trust with stakeholders
the latest treatment options more quickly. same time, due to lower capacity utilisation, we are 10 The pharma industry faces challenges in earning
realigning our small molecules network to reflect trust, particularly with governments, regulators and
Improving productivity our changing portfolio. 5 society at large. To address these challenges, companies
The latest figures on R&D productivity suggest are strengthening a culture of ethics and integrity,
that the decline since the late 1990s has levelled US approvals of new molecules over the past 20 years 0 adopting higher governance standards, and improving
out. This is due largely to the stream of promising relationships with employees, shareholders and other
New molecules approved per year
recent developments—such as new technologies, a stakeholders.
60 -5
better understanding of biology and disease, and a 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
significant increase in data on human health. These 50 World North America Europe Asia -Pacific Twenty years ago, a company operating in isolation
developments have led to scientific breakthroughs Source: IMS MIDAS could achieve a great deal; now, and even more so
40
in previously intractable areas, such as immuno- in the future, collaboration with stakeholders within
oncology, cardiovascular disease, and hepatitis C. 30 For the diagnostics business, China is in fact the key and beyond our industry is, and will remain, critical
However, concerns remain about the returns on growth driver. There is a shift in business opportunities to success. From early research through to delivering
20
drug development.4 towards emerging markets, whereas most mature our products, increased collaboration with various
10 markets have experienced slowing growth. internal and external stakeholders will be key to
One way to increase productivity is to find new ways harnessing scientific and technological advances,
0
to perform expensive clinical studies. The decades-old 1995 2000 2005 2010 2016 Key to sustained growth, in Pharmaceuticals and improving R&D productivity, delivering pricing
approach of using phase I, II and III clinical trials is Source: CDER NME and BLA filings and approval FDA website, 2017 Diagnostics alike, is that people have access to new and access solutions, and adapting to the evolving
giving way to cutting-edge study designs that change medicines and tests. We have developed a broad set regulatory environment.
the pace of drug development and more effectively Sustaining economic growth of initiatives to improve patient access across the
allow the evaluation of promising compounds in The US remain the key growth driver for the world. They include working with governments on In recognition of our commitment to the
specific patient populations. We are forced to set the pharmaceutical industry. Despite its recent slowdown, disease awareness campaigns, training lab technicians environment and society, Roche was named Group
right priorities and shift resources to those products the US market benefits from structural characteristics in sophisticated diagnostics, training community Leader in sustainability within the Pharmaceuticals,
which really impact patients’ lives. We also strive to be such as accelerated approval pathways, a large and healthcare workers, and providing flexible pricing Biotechnology & Life Sciences Industry in the Dow
more agile in our decision-making. At Roche, teams growing population, and a stable high-quality solutions to support payers’ reimbursement decisions. Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) for the eighth
come together to look at promising molecules from infrastructure. consecutive year.
our different research organisations. They assess the
best way to faster advance the medicines through the Key emerging markets may be recording lower levels
development process, so that, ultimately, patients can of growth than expected but keep growing steadily.
benefit sooner. In China, a growing population with access to
innovative medicines should sustain market growth
When it comes to improving efficiencies, we do not notwithstanding geopolitical risks, and assuming
only consider R&D productivity, but also how we continued access expansion.
can refine our manufacturing network. An optimal
4 BCG Perspectives: on.bcg.com/biopharmardprod
10 11Roche | Overview Overview | Roche
Hon. Senator Dr Beth Mugo,
Kenya
“No one can tackle such
a problem alone.”
Long before I went into politics, I was fighting for Kenya has been very successful in reducing the toll
the economic, social and political rights of the of communicable diseases such as AIDS, tuberculosis
disadvantaged in Kenya, especially women. In 1997, and malaria. In recent years, though, we have seen
I was elected as the first female Member of Parliament non-communicable diseases such as cancer become
from Nairobi. I represented that constituency for a major killer. My personal story has heightened my
15 years before becoming a Senator. awareness of the suffering caused by cancer and the
need to take action.
After my party won the election in 2002, I joined
the government as Assistant Minister for Education. Public-private partnerships are essential to address
I then served as Minister for Public Health and healthcare issues of this complexity and scope. In
Sanitation from 2008 to 2013. One of my top priorities Kenya, Roche is contributing by sharing its extensive
was improving maternal health. By establishing knowledge of oncology and helping to improve patient
health centres throughout the country and training access to timely diagnosis and treatment.
nurses, we were able to significantly reduce the death
rate for women giving birth and for children under Everyone needs to come together to tackle this disease.
five. The current First Lady of Kenya has taken That is why I have established the Beth Mugo Cancer
progress in maternal care even further with the Foundation to promote access to information, detection
Beyond Zero Campaign. and treatment of breast, cervical and prostate cancer.
Once again, Roche is partnering with us by providing
In 2011, I learned that I had breast cancer. It was a research data, basic training on cancer, support for
shock, and my first instinct was to keep it secret patient organisations, and links to like-minded
because of the stigma associated with this disease in international organisations.
Kenya. I was lucky that my tumour was at an early
stage and could be treated successfully. It took some Based on these kinds of strong partnerships, I can
courage, but I decided to come forward with my story envision a country where healthcare is accessible
and the importance of early detection. This generated and affordable to all, people are well informed about
a great deal of media coverage, followed by an upsurge health matters, and we have a health sector that
in women around the country getting check-ups. serves the public efficiently.
Recalibrating healthcare priorities to fight cancer
Working with the United Nations, development
partners and other non-government organisations,
12 13Roche | Chairman’s shareholder letter Chairman’s shareholder letter | Roche
Shaping the future together
Our focus on innovative tests and medicines is enabling
us to play a key role in overcoming the challenges facing
global healthcare.
Dear Shareholders,
Some 15 years after the decoding of the human The challenges facing global health remain immense—
genome and the adoption of the United Nations for instance the increase in chronic diseases, the
Millennium Health Goals, the opportunities and emergence of new epidemics and the spread of antibiotic
challenges in global healthcare are greater than ever. resistance. The only way to achieve enduring solutions
I am confident that Roche, with its strengths in is to adopt an integrated perspective and engage in
Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics, is well placed international and multi-stakeholder collaboration.
to actively help shape and advance the healthcare Roche is ready to do its part. We are committed to the
“Innovation
of tomorrow. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals on
health and beyond. We are spurred on by the fact that
This is primarily due to our strong core business: Roche has been ranked the most sustainable healthcare
In what is still a volatile environment impacted company in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices for
by austerity measures, we succeeded in increasing the eighth year running. Developing novel products
remains our way
sales by 4%* to 50.6 billion Swiss francs in 2016. that address difficult-to-treat diseases is and remains
Net income came to 9.7 billion francs (+7%). I am our greatest contribution to society, as well as our way
particularly proud of our many product launches, to create value. Consequently, we invest approximately
which make new treatments available for various one fifth of our sales in research and development. In
types of cancer, and further improve and automate 2016, that translated into 9.9 billion Swiss francs. to create value.”
in vitro diagnostics.
Dr Christoph Franz
Chairman of the Board
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2015).
14 15Roche | Chairman’s shareholder letter Chairman’s shareholder letter | Roche
“In light of the good full-year results, we
New medical technologies and digitisation create Technological possibilities and the global pressure The imCORE network, the partnerships with
huge opportunities for us. Enormous scientific on healthcare systems nevertheless call for far more Foundation Medicine and Flatiron Health, and our
propose to increase the dividend for the
Chairman’s video: and technological advances are being made in the than the development of novel products for the projects in Kenya are just three examples—albeit
roche.com/ world’s major life science and technology centres. future. It is just as vital that our treatments and tests pivotal ones—of our wide-ranging activities with
30th consecutive year.”
ar16chair This pioneering spirit and the wealth of ideas are are available to the patients who need them today. external partners. They demonstrate the way we
truly compelling. Regrettably, for a variety of reasons, this access is approach opportunities and challenges—with
not yet guaranteed everywhere. openness, team spirit and tenacity.
Roche is part of this, on site, together with its For us, shaping the future means continuing to
many partners. In November, for instance, we set The major task of establishing and maintaining I look forward to welcoming you at the 99th Annual develop our product offerings and markets globally
up imCORE, a network of 21 academic institutions a functioning healthcare system is, of course, the General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd on 14 March with an entrepreneurial spirit and sound strategic
working with Roche to advance research into cancer responsibility of each individual state. In a great many 2017. In light of the company’s good full-year results, instinct. My thanks go out to our Group’s more than
immunotherapies. Here, diagnostics also plays a countries, the latest medicines and diagnostic products the Board of Directors is proposing a dividend 94,000 employees for their dedication and to our
crucial role in the search for treatments tailored to are available to everyone, yet elsewhere even the most increase to 8.20 Swiss francs per share and non-voting external partners for their willingness to work with
patients’ individual immunobiology. rudimentary healthcare resources are lacking. In equity security. Subject to your approval, this will be Roche towards a shared goal: patients’ wellbeing.
autumn 2016, I travelled through three sub-Saharan the 30th consecutive dividend increase.
Our aim is to integrate diagnosis and treatment with countries—Kenya, Nigeria and Côte d’Ivoire. Despite
digital technologies and applications to an even greater a frequent absence of basic necessities in many places, I would also like to draw your attention to changes to And I would like to thank you, our shareholders,
extent. As clinical pictures and treatment options including clean water, infrastructure and know-how the Roche Board of Directors. Professor Pius Baschera for your confidence in us.
become ever more numerous and diverse, we see this about chronic illnesses, our Roche teams in the field has decided not to stand for re-election at the 2017
as a way to provide doctors and patients with more are working passionately with local partners to provide Annual General Meeting following ten years of tenure.
comprehensive information to aid the decision-making treatments for more and more patients. On behalf of the Board of Directors, I would like to
process. While the partnerships entered into in 2015 extend our sincerest thanks to him for his valuable
with Foundation Medicine and Flatiron Health give I am certain that we can achieve a great deal in contributions to Roche’s success.
us access to data and promising analysis tools in the collaboration with governments, patient groups and
field of cancer, we at Roche are ourselves developing aid organisations. This is shown, for instance, by the I am delighted to be able to propose Anita Hauser,
pioneering IT solutions to integrate and interpret progress made in Kenya, where new oncology centres a successful Swiss business leader, as the new member
diagnostic data from a wide variety of sources. are being set up, and where, under an agreement with of the Board of Directors. As Vice-Chairwoman of
the government, we are training healthcare specialists, the Board of Directors of a globally operating family
enabling modern diagnostic tests, and co-funding business, Bucher Industries AG, Anita Hauser has a Dr Christoph Franz
“We are developing pioneering IT solutions
free breast cancer treatment for patients in public strong entrepreneurial background. Chairman of the Board
institutions. In other regions and countries too, we
to interpret diagnostic data from various
are endeavouring to promote access to healthcare
by means of tailored local solutions.
sources.”
16 17Roche | Board of Directors Board of Directors | Roche
Board of Directors
From left to right
Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton (1953) C, E André Hoffmann (1958) Vice-Chairman, Paul Bulcke (1954) B, E A Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
Representative of the shareholder group with pooled B Audit Committee
Julie Brown (1962) B*, E voting rights, A, C*, D, E Peter R. Voser (1958) C, E C Remuneration Committee
D Presidium/Nomination Committee
Prof. Sir John Irving Bell (1952) B, E Dr Andreas Oeri (1949) Representative of the Dr Severin Schwan (1967) F E Non-executive director
shareholder group with pooled voting rights, A*, E F Executive director
Bernard Poussot (1952) C, E Prof. Dr Pius Baschera (1950) A, E * Committee chairperson
Dr Claudia Süssmuth Dyckerhoff (1967) A, B, E Roche Board of Directors on 31 December 2016
Dr Christoph Franz (1960) Chairman, C, D*, E
18 19Roche | CEO’s shareholder letter CEO’s shareholder letter | Roche
Achieving medical breakthroughs
2016 saw further important advances, including regulatory
approval for our first cancer immunotherapy medicine and the
filing of our new treatment for multiple sclerosis. Improving
patients’ lives—this has always been our ambition.
Dear Shareholders,
In 2016, we achieved all our financial targets. and Drug Administration, something that could
Pharmaceuticals sales were up 3%*. Diagnostics sales speed up the approval processes.
even increased by 7%—again well above market
growth. Roche’s business success is reflected not least The Diagnostics Division also introduced a number of
in the core earnings per share and non-voting equity key new instruments and tests. In particular, I would
“Our product
security, which increased 5%. like to mention the new immunochemistry platform
cobas e 801. This new module for clinical laboratories
Even more important for the future: Our product can carry out up to 300 immunological tests per hour,
pipeline has made very good advances. Within a enabling doctors to make faster and extremely reliable
short period, we launched four new medicines to treatment decisions.
pipeline has made
treat aggressive cancers—skin cancer (Cotellic), lung
cancer (Alecensa; Tecentriq), leukaemia (Venclexta) Such complex and highly innovative products can only
and bladder cancer (Tecentriq). In other therapeutic be developed if people from very different disciplines
areas, we filed marketing applications in the US and and business areas work closely together. I extend my
EU for a new medicine against multiple sclerosis sincere thanks to our more than 94,000 employees for very good advances.”
(ocrelizumab), and achieved positive late-stage clinical their outstanding achievements.
trial results for a new molecule (emicizumab), which
treats haemophilia A, a blood-clotting disorder. Harnessing scientific excellence to improve patients’
Additionally, five of our medicines have been granted lives and, where possible, to help them live longer, is
breakthrough therapy designation by the US Food the goal that drives us day in and day out at Roche.
Dr Severin Schwan
Chief Executive Officer
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2015).
20 21Roche | CEO’s shareholder letter CEO’s shareholder letter | Roche
“In the fight against cancer, the latest
Our advances made in the treatment of multiple the very forefront of cancer immunotherapy, Working closely with payers and service providers,
sclerosis (MS) are highly encouraging. MS is an with ten investigational candidates currently in we have already introduced flexible pricing solutions
immunotherapeutic approaches and
CEO’s video: autoimmune disorder in which the immune system the clinical development phase. In 2016, our first in several European countries—including different
roche.com/ar16ceo attacks the body. Data from three large-scale trials have immunotherapeutic medicine Tecentriq was approved prices for medicines used as combination therapies
combination therapies are proving very
shown that our potential new medicine ocrelizumab in the US for the treatment of bladder and lung cancer. versus monotherapies in breast and skin cancer.
is highly effective, even against the somewhat rarer Representing the first major improvement in bladder In other countries we have initiated pilot projects;
promising.”
form of the progressively deteriorating disease, for cancer treatment options in 30 years, this medicine we collaborate on setting up the necessary IT
which no treatment has been found to date. also appreciably extends the life expectancy of people infrastructure and—for example in the US—we
with advanced-stage lung cancer. actively engage in discussions with payers on new
As the world leader in oncology, we strive to advance pricing models. at constant exchange rates. And we are planning to
new approaches to better treat cancer. As cancer The fact that people respond differently to medicines further increase the dividend in Swiss francs for 2017.
cells are resourceful, they look for ways to circumvent remains a huge medical challenge. Because the Overall, in working with governments and payers,
a treatment and, at some point in time, often begin immune system is extremely complex, we aim to our goal is to ensure the degree of patient benefit and Roche is strongly positioned for the future. We
to multiply again. The latest immunotherapeutic keep cancer in check more effectively over the long innovation of our products is taken into account. are the world’s largest biotech company, the leader
approaches are therefore proving very promising term—or even defeat it—by using highly promising in cancer therapy, equipped with one of the best
because they help the body’s immune system to combinations of complementary preparations, In 2017, we expect to witness the market launches of product pipelines in the industry and the number 1
recognise and fight cancer more effectively. For the for example immunotherapeutic agents with the first biosimilars for some of our most important in laboratory diagnostics. I am confident that Roche
first time, there is reason to hope that we will be chemotherapies and targeted antibodies. We are medicines. We are confident that we will be able to will continue its 120-year success story.
able to cure patients with advanced cancer, too—or currently testing more than 40 such combinations meet this challenge by continually improving the
transform cancer into a chronic disease. Roche is at in clinical trials. standard of care, based on our strength in developing
combination therapies of proven and new compounds.
It is also with a view to these novel treatment Thus, the newly launched medicines will be more
“Harnessing scientific excellence to
approaches that we strive for more flexible pricing important for the development of our business. Also
models. Instead of the established practice of pricing in the current year, we expect a number of key clinical
improve patients’ lives and, where possible,
medicines based on vials or miligrammes, we want to study results and product approvals, and overall we
link remuneration more closely to patient benefit. anticipate sales to grow low- to mid-single digit, at
help them live longer, is the goal that
This can, for instance, vary for the same medicine, constant exchange rates. We are also aiming for core Dr Severin Schwan
depending on which indication it is being used for earnings per share to grow broadly in line with sales, Chief Executive Officer
drives us day in and day out at Roche.”
and in which combination.
22 23Roche | Corporate Executive Committee Corporate Executive Committee | Roche
Corporate Executive Committee
From left to right
Daniel O’Day (1964) Dr Stephan Feldhaus* (1962) Dr Sophie Kornowski-Bonnet* (1963) Osamu Nagayama* (1947)
CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals Head Group Communications Head Roche Partnering Chairman and CEO Chugai
Roland Diggelmann (1967) Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954) Dr Alan Hippe (1967) Dr Michael D. Varney* (1958)
CEO Roche Diagnostics General Counsel Chief Financial and IT Officer Head Genentech Research & Early Development
(gRED)
Cristina A. Wilbur (1967) Dr Severin Schwan (1967) Prof. Dr John C. Reed* (1958)
Head Group Human Resources CEO Roche Group Head Roche Pharma Research & Early Development * Member of the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
(pRED) Roche Corporate Executive Committee on 31 December 2016
24 25Roche | Business performance Business performance | Roche
Bu sine s s
pe r for mance
We recently launched four new medicines and strengthened
our leading position in the laboratory business. At the same
time, we invested in the product pipeline and are among the
Material topics covered in this chapter
top 10 investors in R&D across industries.
· Product portfolio strategy
· Growth strategy in emerging and developed markets
We provide more than 100 medicines, over 140 diagnostic instruments and over 850 different tests to patients, laboratories and
healthcare professionals.
26 27Roche | Business performance Business performance | Roche
G
In Latin America, sales advanced 18%. Sales growth Alecensa significantly reduced the risk of disease
in Japan (+2%) was also led by the Centralised and worsening or death compared to crizotinib, the current
Point of Care Solutions business. standard of care, in people with ALK-positive NSCLC.
While Gazyva/Gazyvaro showed positive results in a
High number of launches in Pharmaceuticals major clinical trial (Gallium) in follicular lymphoma,
ood performance in both divisions
Roche recently launched four new medicines: Cotellic a separate trial (Goya) of the medicine in diffuse large
(advanced melanoma), Alecensa (lung cancer), Venclexta B-cell lymphoma, did not reach its primary study goal.
(chronic lymphocytic leukemia, jointly commercialised
with AbbVie) and Tecentriq (bladder and lung cancer). Further broadening the Diagnostics portfolio
Group sales rose 4% to CHF 50.6 billion. Despite Perjeta, Actemra/RoActemra and MabThera/ Rituxan. In addition, five FDA breakthrough therapy designations During 2016, Roche added nine key instruments and
high investments in the launch of new products and In Japan, sales grew 1% despite the biennial price were granted for Roche medicines in 2016. A major tests to its comprehensive portfolio. Among the new
product development, core EPS grew faster than sales cuts and a special price reduction rule for best-selling highlight was the US launch of Roche’s cancer instruments are the cobas e 801 immunoassay module,
(+5%). Core EPS growth reflects the good underlying medicines. Tamiflu, Alecensa and Actemra/RoActemra immunotherapy medicine Tecentriq. It is the first the CoaguChek INRange system to monitor vitamin K
business performance and an impact from changes to were key sales contributors. In the International region, FDA-approved treatment for people with a specific type antagonist therapy, and the Accu-Chek Guide, a next-
the Group’s Swiss pension plans. IFRS net income was sales gained 4%, driven by the Asia-Pacific and Latin of bladder cancer in more than 30 years. Furthermore, generation blood glucose monitoring system.
up 7% at constant exchange rates and in Swiss francs. America subregions. the US FDA cleared Tecentriq for use in previously
treated metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The FDA approved two accompanying diagnostics:
Sales in the Pharmaceuticals Division rose 3% to Diagnostics divisional sales increased 7% to The pivotal Oak trial showed that people with this form The Ventana PD-L1 (SP142) test is a complementary
CHF 39.1 billion, driven by growth of Perjeta, Herceptin CHF 11.5 billion—above market growth. Centralised of lung cancer who received Tecentriq live significantly diagnostic which determines PD-L1 status of patients
and Actemra/RoActemra, partially offset by lower and Point of Care Solutions1 was the main contributor, longer, regardless of their PD-L1 status, compared with bladder and lung cancer. The cobas EGFR
sales of Pegasys, Tarceva and Lucentis. led by its immunodiagnostics business. with those receiving chemotherapy. Additional data Mutation test v2 is a companion diagnostic for lung
presented at the ECTRIMS4 congress in September cancer medicine Tarceva. The FDA also granted
In the US, Pharmaceuticals sales advanced 3%, led In the EMEA2 (+2%) and North America (+3%) showed that Roche’s ocrelizumab increased disease premarket clearance and a CLIA3 waiver for the
by the respiratory medicines Xolair and Esbriet. The regions, the division’s largest markets, the sales control in both relapsing and primary progressive cobas Liat Influenza A/B & RSV test. This is the first
recently launched medicines Tecentriq and Alecensa increases were led by Centralised and Point of Care multiple sclerosis (RMS and PPMS). Roche is seeking point-of-care test that extends molecular testing on the
contributed to the growth as well. Sales of eye drug Solutions. Sales growth in North America was partially regulatory approval for this medicine in RMS and Liat system beyond influenza A/B and Streptococcus A
Lucentis and cancer medicines Avastin and Tarceva offset by a decline in Diabetes Care business, which PPMS in the US and the EU. The FDA’s action date to include respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). The FDA
declined due to growing use of other therapeutic faced continued pricing pressure. The sales increase for a decision is March 28, 2017. also approved Roche tests for the detection of Zika virus.
options. In Europe, sales growth of 4% was driven by in Asia-Pacific (+16%) was mainly driven by China.
Roche also presented other important clinical results Outlook for 2017
in 2016. A pivotal study in a group of people with In 2017, Roche expects sales to grow low- to mid-single
Key figures 2016 haemophilia A (Haven 1) showed that prophylaxis digit, at constant exchange rates. Core earnings per
with emicizumab led to a significant reduction in the share are targeted to grow broadly in line with sales,
CHF millions CHF millions % change % change
2016 2015 CER* CHF number of bleeds over time. A phase III study by at constant exchange rates. Roche expects to further
Group sales 50,576 48,145 +4 +5 Chugai (J-Alex) found that first-line treatment with increase its dividend in Swiss francs.
Pharmaceuticals Division 39,103 37,331 +3 +5
Diagnostics Division 11,473 10,814 +7 +6
Core operating profit 18,420 17,542 +4 +5
Core EPS – diluted (CHF) 14.53 13.49 +5 +8
IFRS net income** 9,733 9,056 +7 +7
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2015). | ** IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards. 1 Formerly Roche Professional Diagnostics | 2 Europe, Middle East and Africa | 3 CLIA= Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments |
4 European Committee for Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis
28 29Roche | Business performance Business performance | Roche
S
ales in the Pharmaceuticals Division increased 3% to
especially China, following the approval of the lung increasing use in people with moderate and progressive
cancer indication in 2015. Sales in the US, where disease. Roche is stepping up its efforts in various
CHF 39.1 billion, driven by growth of the HER2 breast cancer
Avastin is already broadly used in its approved markets to improve disease awareness and inform
indications, declined 5%, largely due to growing patients and caregivers of the need for early and
medicines and Actemra/RoActemra.
use of new immunotherapy agents in the lung sustained treatment of IPF.
cancer setting.
Actemra/RoActemra (+16%). For rheumatoid arthritis
Herceptin, Perjeta and Kadcyla (combined +8%*). MabThera/Rituxan (+3%). For common forms Gazyva/Gazyvaro (+52%). For chronic lymphocytic and forms of juvenile idiopathic arthritis. Increasing
For HER2-positive breast cancer and HER2-positive of blood cancer, rheumatoid arthritis and certain leukaemia (CLL) and rituximab-refractory follicular use of Actemra/RoActemra as a single agent and of
metastatic gastric cancer (Herceptin only). Herceptin types of vasculitis. Sales continued to rise despite lymphoma. Sales expanded in the US and Europe despite the subcutaneous formulation remained key growth
sales were up 4%, helped by additional reimbursement competitive pressure. Increasing demand was mainly increasing competition in CLL. Gazyva/Gazyvaro is drivers globally.
approvals in China and continued growth in the US seen in China, the US and Europe. Growth in China now approved for CLL in more than 60 countries.
due to longer duration of treatment in combination was supported by expanded regional access, largely Following US and EU approval of the medicine in Recently launched medicines
with Perjeta. Perjeta sales (+26%) advanced particularly in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. previously treated follicular lymphoma in the first Alecensa is for people with ALK-positive advanced
strongly in Europe and the US, where the medicine half of 2016, early uptake in this indication has NSCLC. There was very good uptake in the US. Sales
was approved for use before surgery in early breast Avastin (0%). For advanced colorectal, breast, lung, been encouraging. growth remained strong in Japan. Following FDA Pharmaceuticals:
cancer. Kadcyla sales (+7%) were fuelled by increasing kidney, cervical and ovarian cancer, and relapsed approval of Tecentriq in bladder and lung cancer, roche.com/
demand in the International region, due mainly to glioblastoma (a type of brain tumour). Sales continued Esbriet (+34%). For idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis market uptake in the US has been strong. pharmaceuticals
expanded access. to grow strongly in the International region (+18%), (IPF). Sales continued to expand, mostly due to
Top-selling pharma products in 2016 (CHF millions)
MabThera/Rituxan Avastin Herceptin Perjeta Actemra/RoActemra Xolair Lucentis Activase/TNKase Tarceva Kadcyla
Oncology and Immunology Oncology Oncology Oncology Immunology Immunology Ophthalmology Cardiovascular Oncology Oncology
7,300 6,783 6,782 1,846 1,697 1,498 1,406 1,108 1,024 831
+3% 0% +4% +26% +16% +15% -10% +16% -15% +7%
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2015).
30 31Roche | Business performance Business performance | Roche
+4% +4%
Europe Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa (EEMEA)
+1%
+3%
Japan
Regional performance
US
Good growth in all regions
+7% +4%
US Europe Latin America (LATAM) Asia-Pacific (APAC)
The US market continues to be an area of significant The European market, where healthcare is largely
opportunity, despite increasing complexity driven publicly funded, continued to face increasing demands
by rising competitive pressure, a dynamic regulatory on strained healthcare systems. Despite the European
environment, advances in technology, and a shift Medicines Agency’s centralised approval of medicines,
toward value-based healthcare models. To navigate the time between European authorisation and EEMEA, LATAM, APAC and Canada form the ‘International’ region.
these challenges, we remain focused on delivering reimbursement continues to vary by country, as do
differentiated products and working with all government spending levels on healthcare. This has
stakeholders in the healthcare community to created a significant disparity in access to medicines
differentiate our products, support physicians’ choices, across the EU. As part of our commitment to accelerate
and ensure patients have access to our medicines. and widen patient access to our medicines in Europe, we International expanding access to our medicines enabled us to
have developed new pricing solutions to give healthcare The LATAM region has experienced consistently achieve reimbursement in several provinces in China
While the FDA follows specific approval procedures systems more flexibility when making reimbursement high growth in recent years, resulting in increased covering over 530 million people. The APAC region
for medicines, it has also created programmes to decisions. The Europe region contributed 23% to the healthcare spending and government attention to contributed 7% to the overall Pharmaceuticals business
expedite the approval of promising new treatments overall Pharmaceuticals business and delivered 4% programmes improving access to healthcare. Despite and growth of 4% was driven by Herceptin, MabThera/
intended for unmet medical need. One of these is the growth, driven by Perjeta, Actemra/RoActemra and these investments, significant challenges remain, Rituxan and Avastin.
breakthrough therapy designation (BTD) programme. MabThera/Rituxan. Germany, France and Italy were including a lack of infrastructure and trained
In 2016, we received BTDs for five indications, which the largest contributors to sales. professionals, low levels of education and awareness, Despite inherent volatility and multiple barriers to
means we have been awarded a total of 14 BTDs since and disparities between local private and public quality healthcare, there are significant opportunities
the FDA established the programme in 2012. Japan healthcare systems across the different LATAM for growth and development in the EEMEA region. To
Under its universal healthcare insurance system, countries. To address these issues, Roche collaborates drive access to our medicines, we aim to implement
Fuelled by strong sales of both new and existing Japan is facing significant pressure to reduce its overall with various partners to help strengthen national tailored solutions. In Middle East markets, we have
medicines, the US recorded 3%* year-over-year medical costs. In 2016, in addition to the general drug- health plans and hence increase access to tests and worked with stakeholders to adapt regulations so that
growth and now accounts for 49% of the total price revision which occurs every two years, a special medicines. LATAM contributed 6% to the overall local approvals are based on regulatory submissions
Pharma business. More than half of total 2016 sales market-expansion repricing rule was newly introduced Pharmaceuticals business and grew 7%, driven from other markets. This helps to accelerate product
were attributed to oncology medicines, driven in and applied to Avastin. Given that many patients still by Avastin, Herceptin and Perjeta. Sales growth registration timelines and thus makes our innovative
part by the recent approvals of Tecentriq in bladder do not receive adequate testing and treatment, Chugai was driven in part by inflationary price increases medicines available earlier to patients. This is one
FDA BTDs: and lung cancer and Alecensa in lung cancer. We makes various efforts to disseminate information in Argentina. example of how patients in emerging markets can benefit
focr.org/ are also preparing for potential FDA approvals of on healthcare delivery in different disease areas in from our innovative medicines. The top products
breakthrough- medicines outside of oncology in 2017, including the country. Chugai contributed 9% to the overall 2016 was a challenging year for the APAC region contributing to regional growth were Avastin, Perjeta
therapies ocrelizumab for MS. Pharmaceuticals business and sales increased 1%, due to the macroeconomic slowdown in some key and Kadcyla. Overall, the EEMEA markets contributed
driven by Tamiflu, Alecensa and Actemra/RoActemra. markets such as China and Taiwan. Our focus on 4% to the Pharmaceuticals business and grew 4%.
32 33Roche | Business performance Business performance | Roche
Types of multiple sclerosis (MS)
Disability Disability Disability
Time Time Time
A strong heritage Relapsing MS Secondary progressive MS with relapses Primary progressive MS
Secondary progressive MS without relapses
Progress in oncology and neuroscience
85% of people with MS are initially diagnosed with relapsing MS (RMS). Over time, the majority of people with RMS progress to secondary progressive MS.
Source: Multiple Sclerosis International Federation/Trojano M. et al. The Transition from relapsing-remitting MS to irreversible disability: clinical evaluation. Neurol Sci, 2003.
At the forefront of finding cures for cancer launched four new cancer medicines that significantly
For more than 50 years, Roche has been at the forefront improve patient outcomes: Tecentriq (bladder and lung
of developing medical solutions to fight cancer. In cancer), Venclexta (chronic lymphocytic leukaemia), Turning the page in multiple sclerosis the most common form of the disease. It is
1962, ‘5 FU’ was synthesised, Roche’s first anticancer Alecensa (lung cancer) and Cotellic (skin cancer). Central nervous system (CNS) research has a long characterised by clearly defined relapses, which
drug inhibiting cell growth. In 1986, Roche’s first history at Roche. The world’s first commercially often include neurologic symptoms. The less prevalent
biotech product Roferon-A was approved for the A major highlight in 2016 was the US launch of our available benzodiazepine medicines Librium (1960) but highly disabling form of the disease is primary
treatment of a previously fatal form of blood cancer. first cancer immunotherapy medicine Tecentriq. and Valium (1963) were invented by Roche scientist progressive MS (PPMS), displaying steadily worsening
Cancer immunotherapy is revolutionising the way Leo Sternbach. Roche’s introduction of these two symptoms from the onset. Unlike for RMS, there are
Over the last 20 years, Roche has brought 14 new cancer is treated, and we are proud to be among the products was a major milestone, and the impact on no approved treatments for PPMS.
medicines to cancer patients. Long-term durable leaders in this field. We expect important data for as medicine is still felt today.
remissions and even cures are now possible in specific many as ten investigational cancer immunotherapy Research advances have led to an increase in the
disease settings. For example, Herceptin has been shown molecules, either in monotherapy or combination More than 50 years later, we have reached a turning development of newer, more efficacious treatments.
to reduce the number of cases of metastatic HER2- approaches, before the end of 2017. point in our understanding of the brain and the nervous However, the higher efficacy treatments have typically
positive breast cancer when used in the early setting,1 system, leading to tremendous opportunities. We been accompanied by higher safety risks, and, for this
and for people with an aggressive form of lymphoma, Gaining regulatory approval of medicines does not continue to invest in a broad research and development reason, physicians and patients have been cautious in
MabThera/Rituxan together with chemotherapy mean that all patients in need are able to receive these programme focusing on four disease areas: using high-efficacy treatments.
has been shown to cure the disease in a majority of treatments immediately. Reimbursement negotiations
patients.2 However, there are more than 200 types of and healthcare infrastructure can all contribute to • Psychiatric disorders including schizophrenia There is a need for high-efficacy medicines that offer
cancer and there is still significant progress needed delays numbering years before patients have access and depression a favourable safety profile. We are currently seeking
to overcome the challenge of this disease. to innovative new medicines. In many cases, this can • Neurodevelopmental disorders including autism regulatory approval for ocrelizumab, our first MS
Oncology: prove to be too late. spectrum disorders, Down’s syndrome and fragile X treatment in both RMS and PPMS. For PPMS, this
roche.com/ Our goal is to be at the forefront of finding cures for • Neurodegenerative disorders including Parkinson’s would be the first and only treatment for this type of
oncology cancer, as demonstrated by the fact that we recently We are making many efforts to accelerate access to disease and Alzheimer’s disease the disease. In the pivotal RMS trials, the medicine
our medicines around the world, one example being • Neuroinflammatory disorders, including showed high efficacy versus Rebif ® (interferon beta-1a)
our personalised reimbursement models. These neuromyelitis optica and multiple sclerosis (MS) over the two-year period. Ocrelizumab demonstrated
frameworks enable more flexible pricing solutions a favourable safety profile in each phase III study.3
Key achievements in oncology
by allowing medicines to be priced according to the In MS in particular, significant advances have been These data suggest that ocrelizumab could potentially
benefit they deliver across different indications and achieved in the fight against this disabling disease be used earlier in the treatment pathway, and since it Neuroscience:
· More than 10 million cancer patients treated combinations. This provides more flexibility when it over the past 20 years. There are now numerous is administered by twice-yearly infusion, offer people roche.com/
· 4 new cancer medicines recently introduced comes to reimbursement decisions, and ensures timely treatment options available for relapsing MS (RMS)— with MS a less frequent dosing schedule. neuroscience
· 8 FDA breakthrough therapy designations granted for cancer access to innovative medicines for patients.
medicines since 2012
1 Weisgerber-Kriegl U et al. Estimation of the epidemiological effect of trastuzumab over 10 years in 5 European countries. J Clin Oncol, 2008.
2 Sehn L, Gascoyne R. Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma: optimizing outcome in the context of clinical and biologic heterogeneity. Blood, 2015.
3 Hauser S.L. et al. Ocrelizumab versus Interferon Beta-1a in Relapsing Multiple Sclerosis. NEJM online, 2016.
34 35Roche | Business performance Business performance | Roche
+3% +2%
North America Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)
+2%
S Japan
+18%
ales in the Diagnostics Division grew strongly (+7%) to
+16%
CHF 11.5 billion. All regions reported sales growth.
Latin America
Asia-Pacific
Centralised and Point of Care Solutions* (+9%**) business grew 5%, supported by tender wins in
was the largest contributor to the division’s sales many countries.
performance. Its Integrated Serum Work Area
solutions, comprising the immunodiagnostics (+13%) Tissue Diagnostics sales increased 14%. Sales in The division’s sales growth was driven by the Asia-Pacific region.
and clinical chemistry (+6%) segments, were the the advanced staining portfolio and in primary
main drivers of this strong growth. staining were up 9% and 21%, respectively.
Companion diagnostics sales showed continued
In Molecular Diagnostics, including sequencing, strong growth (+46%). All regions contributed to growth In North America, a strong, above-market growth
sales increased 7%. In virology, with its portfolio for Increased access to healthcare and diagnostic performance was driven by our laboratory businesses.
the diagnosis and monitoring of hepatitis and HIV, Diabetes Care sales decreased 4%, predominantly solutions, demographic shifts, and advances in Roche continues to gain market share in both the
sales were up 9%. HPV (human papillomavirus) due to continued price pressure in the US. science and technology have led to a globally growing laboratory and decentralised coagulation monitoring
screening sales advanced 8%. The blood screening volume of tests. As the leader in the field of in vitro segments, and important new business was won
diagnostics, Roche is well positioned to benefit from with recently launched products. In Diabetes Care,
these developments. However, public funding challenging market conditions continued to impact
constraints have led to a consolidation of laboratories the region’s overall performance.
Top-selling product portfolios in 2016 (CHF millions) and hospitals. The number of people with diabetes
continues to grow, along with awareness about the The Asia-Pacific region was a major driver of the
condition and the need to manage it with adequate division’s growth, with immunochemistry as a key
blood glucose monitoring systems. contributor. China generated more than 50% of the
absolute sales growth, indeed most markets within
The sales increase in the EMEA region was driven by the region continued to see volume growth and
the core laboratory business. Contributions by markets expanded access to testing. Diabetes Care sales
varied due to different levels of market maturity and were stable.
economic developments. In Africa, major healthcare
access programmes have been implemented by a number In Latin America, all business segments contributed
cobas cobas cobas Ventana Accu-Chek of local governments in close collaboration with to growth, with sales expanding in Diabetes Care.
Immunodiagnostics Clinical chemistry Virology Advanced staining Diabetes Care international organisations such as WHO, UNAIDS
and partners from industry. Roche supports several Sales growth in Japan was driven by Centralised
3,394 1,675 632 685 2,016 such initiatives with sustainable commercial offers. and Point of Care Solutions and Tissue Diagnostics,
Overall, Diabetes Care sales declined within this however business in Diabetes Care declined.
region, however growth was seen in several markets.
+13% +6% +9% +9% –4%
* Formerly Roche Professional Diagnostics | ** All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2015).
36 37Roche | Business performance Business performance | Roche
Modern diagnostics—faster and simpler
Results more accurate than ever before
The ‘connected lab’ in the histopathology laboratories and provides
We are working to increase the efficiency and exceptional staining quality.
connectivity of laboratory solutions. We want our A modern connected lab provides interconnected instruments, an incomparable breadth of menu and allows for fast results.
innovations to support healthcare professionals and The new cobas m 511 integrated haematology analyser
help them to take the best patient decisions in the was launched in countries accepting the CE mark.
fastest and most efficient way. A fully connected Compared to current methods, this innovative,
laboratory with automated processing and integrated automated system offers one streamlined solution Further broadening our rich test menu Streptococcus A to include respiratory syncytial
workflows, is our goal. which prepares, stains and analyses microscopy blood During 2016, a range of new tests for in vitro diagnosis virus (RSV). Infection with RSV is the cause of more
slides. Automation and digitisation reduce the need was approved or cleared by the regulatory authorities than 80% of acute lower respiratory tract infections
The connected lab offers a wider array of tests for resource-intensive manual microscope reviews, or certified for launch. These new tests add to our in infants under one year of age.2 It is essential to
than ever before, and is increasingly able to deliver require less blood for testing, and deliver highly comprehensive portfolios, further improving decision- have a differential diagnosis for RSV and influenza
results across different testing disciplines from one accurate results faster. making in healthcare, and supporting laboratories in to ensure appropriate treatment soon after the onset
blood sample. Thanks to automated workflows and their efforts to increase operational efficiency. of symptoms.
integrated IT solutions, our customers benefit from The CoaguChek INRange system is the first
fully interconnected instruments, an incomparable Bluetooth-enabled PT/INR home health device that In June, the FDA approved the cobas EGFR Mutation The Ventana PD-L1 (SP142) test was approved by the
breadth of menu, and fast, highly accurate results. gives patients and their healthcare providers greater test v2 for use with plasma samples, as a companion FDA as a complementary diagnostic to provide PD-L1
control over their coagulation status, and the ability diagnostic for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) status on patients with metastatic urothelial cancer
As the newest member of the cobas 8000 modular to monitor vitamin K antagonist therapy.1 Patient therapy with Tarceva. This was the first FDA approval who are considering treatment with the FDA-approved
analyser series, the cobas e 801 module, for self-testing with CoaguChek INRange sets a new of a liquid biopsy test as an aid in clinical decisions, immunotherapy Tecentriq. The FDA also approved
immunodiagnostics, represents a major step forward standard of care by enabling providers to monitor and makes this test the only FDA-approved companion this test for NSCLC.
in realising the connected lab. First launched in 2016, patient PT/INR data, reducing visits to the lab. diagnostic for the detection of the epidermal growth
the module is designed for maximum consolidation factor receptor (EGFR) gene in DNA derived from Our new menu for Zika testing enables healthcare
at a high throughput with continuous operation, The Accu-Chek Guide, a next-generation blood plasma or tumour tissue. professionals to quickly diagnose infection with the
simultaneously reducing the amount of waste glucose monitoring system, was launched in the first virus and helped prevent more than 300 units of blood
generated. The new system doubles the currently countries in 2016. It is designed to make everyday In August, the FDA granted premarket clearance infected with Zika virus from being released for blood
available immunochemistry testing capacity over blood glucose monitoring easier and provides (510k clearance) and a CLIA (Clinical Laboratory transfusion to patients in Puerto Rico in 2016. The
the same floor space, only requires a low sample advanced accuracy for reliable diabetes management. Improvement Amendments) waiver for the cobas FDA granted approval for the cobas Zika assay under
volume, and delivers fast, reliable and consistent, It supports people with diabetes by reducing the time Influenza A/B and RSV test for use on the cobas Liat an Investigational New Drug application protocol,
highly accurate patient results. they have to spend thinking about their daily therapy system. This is the first point-of-care test extending and issued an Emergency Use Authorisation for the
routines in that it simplifies blood glucose monitoring molecular testing beyond influenza A/B and LightMix Zika rRT-PCR test.
A fully automated system, the Ventana HE 600 and improves the testing experience.
system for primary staining improves workflow
1 The prothrombin time (PT) and the international normalised ratio (INR) are assays evaluating the extrinsic pathway of coagulation.
2 Piedimonte G, et al. Respiratory syncytial virus infection and bronchiolitis. Pediatr Rev, 2014. | All products may not be available in all markets.
38 39Roche | Business performance Business performance | Roche
Cervical cancer screening and diagnosis
Women’s health
Screen Manage Diagnose
Identify women at risk Identify women who require intervention Identify women to treat
Secure health, avoid disease cobas HPV test CINtec PLUS Cytology CINtec Histology
Our product portfolio provides women and their Women who test positive for genotypes HPV 16 an important fertility marker used to assess ovarian health problems during pregnancy. Hyperglycaemia
physicians with additional insights into critical health and HPV 18 are at high risk of developing precancer reserve levels. Our Elecsys AMH test is a simple blood that is not properly managed can result in birth
issues. This allows for more informed decisions and or cancer. Women carrying one or more of the test that can be performed during any day of the complications that can affect both mother and child.
precise steps for prevention, early detection and 12 other high-risk HPV genotypes are at lower risk menstrual cycle. Our Accu-Chek diabetes management solutions offer
therapy at every stage of a woman’s life. of developing precancer or cancer and would require accurate and reliable blood glucose monitoring systems,
a follow-up test to prevent unnecessary treatment Preeclampsia is a serious pregnancy complication diabetes management software solutions, and education
In cancer, for example, biomarkers provide vital and costs to healthcare systems. Our CINtec PLUS usually occurring after 20 weeks of pregnancy. It is programmes. Along with a healthy diet, moderate
information about a tumour’s structural, cellular Cytology test addresses this issue. Backed by landmark one of the leading causes of death and complications exercise and, if necessary, insulin therapy, these tools
and genetic make-up, as well as its subtype. Together studies, such as Palms, it is the only test that uses for mothers and their unborn babies and cannot be can help keep blood glucose levels in a healthy range.
with the physical characteristics of the tumour, dual-biomarker technology to simultaneously detect treated—the only cure is delivery of the baby. The
biomarkers facilitate decision-making and guide two specific biomarkers (p16 and Ki-67).7 These are Elecsys sFlt-1/PIGF immunoassay ratio test predicts Our portfolio also comprises tests to identify infections
therapy selection.3 Early intervention is also critical; strong indicators of the presence of transforming or rules out the short-term risk of developing the with microorganisms including toxoplasmosis,
upon initial diagnosis of breast cancer, the five-year HPV infection, thus identifying those women who disease in women with suspected preeclampsia.9 syphilis- causing Treponema pallidum, hepatitis B
relative survival rate of women with stage 1 cancer will benefit most from immediate intervention. and E, parvovirus, rubella, cytomegalovirus, Herpes
is 98.8% compared to 26.3% for stage 4.4 Foetal genetic conditions can be identified based on simplex and others that represent high risks during
The CINtec Histology test supports the confirmation foetal DNA in circulation in a pregnant woman’s pregnancy and for the new-born child. Early diagnosis
Cervical cancer screening and diagnosis if cervical disease is actually present. It is based on blood. The Harmony prenatal test is a new type of and initiation of medical intervention are critical for
Cervical cancer has become one of the most preventable the p16 biomarker and guides pathologists in the screening test that analyses the fragments of DNA in a mother and child.
forms of cancer thanks to the implementation of identification of high-grade cervical disease in tissue pregnant woman’s blood sample to assess the probability
screening and vaccination programmes against HPV, biopsies that may be missed by standard morphologic of several genetic conditions including trisomy 21 Maintaining the wellbeing of women
the known cause of more than 99% of cervical cancers.5 interpretation alone. Moreover, this test has been (Down syndrome), trisomy 18 (Edwards’ syndrome) Following menopause, disruption to the balance
The Roche cervical cancer portfolio advances current recommended by medical societies and the WHO for and trisomy 13 (Patau syndrome). The test is non- of bone breakdown and new bone formation can
screening and diagnostic approaches. The medical the diagnosis of cervical disease, becoming a global invasive and highly accurate, and doctors are much cause women to lose bone faster than it is rebuilt. The
value of HPV screening is well established globally and standard of care.8 less likely to recommend invasive follow-up testing, bones can then become brittle and more easily broken.
countries have started to adopt HPV-based primary such as amniocentesis, due to false positive results. Our menu of bone tests provides an earlier and more
screening approaches, leading to a dramatic increase Key information for and during pregnancy complete assessment of osteoporosis therapy efficacy
in screening effectiveness.6 Supported by data from The average age of first-time mothers is rising and Gestational diabetes with high blood glucose than bone mineral densitometry tests alone.
the landmark Athena clinical study, the cobas HPV fertility rates are declining. Thus, there is an increasing (hyperglycaemia) are among the most common
Diagnostics: test is currently the first and only FDA-approved HPV need for information that supports family planning
roche.com/ test for use in HPV primary screening for women through natural conception or artificial reproductive
diagnostics aged 25 and older. technologies. The anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) is
3 Parker JS, Mullins M, Cheang M. et al. Supervised risk predictor of breast cancer based on intrinsic subtypes. J Clin Oncol, 2009. |
4 National Institutes of Health. SEER statistical fact sheets, 2016. | 5 WHO, GLOBOCAN 2012. Estimated Cancer Incidence. Fact sheets, 2016. |
6 Wright TC. et al. The Athena human papillomavirus study: design, methods, and baseline results, Am J Obstet Gynecol, 2012. | 7 Ikenberg H. et al. J
Natl Cancer Inst, 2013. | 8 WHO. Human papillomavirus (HPV) and cervical cancer fact sheet, 2016. | 9 Zeisler H. et al. Predictive value of the
sFlt-1:PlGF ratio in women with suspected preeclampsia. N Engl J Med, 2016.
40 41Roche | Business performance Business performance | Roche
Dr Thomas Wright,
Professor Emeritus, Columbia University
“We’re translating research
into clinical practice.”
I entered medical school planning to do full-time But how could we translate that into clinical practice?
research and quickly realised that by becoming a Changing FDA-approved procedures for cervical
pathologist I could combine research with clinical cancer screening requires clinical trials on a scale no
practice. That was a turning point in my career. academic institution could afford. It was the right
moment for a partnership. Roche decided to conduct
I’ve always loved the contact with patients. It helped the Athena trial in 2009, with over 47,000 patients,
me understand the emotional impact on women and gave me the opportunity to participate. I worked
anxiously awaiting the results of their screening for with very talented people at Roche to design the study
cervical cancer. More importantly, it also gave me the protocol, analyse the clinical findings and present
clinical experience needed to help develop national the results to regulatory authorities.
guidelines for managing and treating this disease.
In 2014, the FDA approved the Roche HPV test for
For most of my 35-year career, the standard for screening primary screening in the US. I am sure this is a
was the Pap test. It has dramatically reduced the number paradigm shift that will save many lives.
of deaths from cervical cancer in the US and other
developed countries. Studies have shown, however, In addition to this new screening technology,
that in up to half of women with high-grade cervical physicians now have an effective cervical cancer
cancer precursors, the Pap test misses the disease. vaccine for young women and targeted molecular
therapies. It is incredible to think that we could
In the 1980s, scientists discovered that HPV causes practically eliminate this disease over the next two
almost all cervical cancers, and just two types are decades in many countries.
responsible for about 70% of cases. That breakthrough
opened up exciting new horizons in terms of During my years of collaboration with Roche, I have
prevention, treatment and detection for both patients been very impressed with the knowledge and dedication
and clinicians. of the people. They have welcomed input from the
academic world and treated me as a trusted partner.
A trustful partnership between academia and
industry And our partnership continues. I am now collaborating
Advances in molecular screening technology followed, with Roche on evaluating other biomarkers that play a
including a Roche diagnostic test that can reliably detect role in cervical cancer. This will give us added precision
the DNA of the two most aggressive strains of HPV. in detecting and treating this disease at an early stage.
42 43Roche | Science and innovation Science and innovation | Roche
Sc ie nce and
innovation
Material topics covered in this chapter
· Product portfolio strategy
· R&D pipeline strategy and personalised healthcare
For our scientists, understanding disease and the factors
influencing drug response is critical. Latest technologies Contribution to the UN SDGs
provide them with unprecedented insights.
Scientists analyse and discuss the impact of new drug candidates based on digitised test results.
44 45Roche | Science and innovation Science and innovation | Roche
W
e are embracing the best technology and partnerships that
leverage the power of our unique pharmaceutical-diagnostic
structure to advance science and develop new therapies.
Roche has generated breakthrough insights and Turning today’s science into tomorrow’s cures
developed products that have transformed medical As we continue to help define the future of medicine, Latest research-supporting technologies and leading-edge data science allow unprecedented insights into root causes of diseases. In parallel, digitisation of data
care for people with difficult-to-treat or deadly we have unprecedented opportunity to match the right enables experts to discuss study results on new drug candidates with colleagues across the globe in real time.
diseases. Building on that legacy, we are embracing treatments to the right patients. Non-small cell lung
the best technology and partnerships to leverage the cancer (NSCLC), for instance, used to be considered one
power of our pharmaceutical-diagnostic structure. disease. We now know that more than a dozen genetic
alterations cause NSCLC, and a range of medicines is generation of targeted medicines and diagnostics to At the forefront of finding cures for cancer
Precise diagnostic tests and combination therapies now available that specifically target these alterations. patients, as well as to answer hard questions arising The approvals of monoclonal antibodies MabThera/
allow millions of people with, for instance, HIV But it is not enough to understand the underlying on the personalised healthcare front such as: What Rituxan and Herceptin opened the door to a new
infections, to live into their golden years.1 Likewise, biology alone. In addition to variations in the genetic does this paradigm mean for clinical development, for cancer care landscape. Since then, our molecular
Herceptin, one of the first man-made antibodies, code, we are studying how genes get switched on production, and for patients in their day-to-day lives? insights have expanded exponentially. Not so long ago,
approved in the late 1990s, changed the treatment and off. We are also learning how a therapy can be cancer biopsies were tested for a single biomarker;
landscape for HER2-positive breast cancer by turning impacted by a patient’s particular immune response The research may be complex and the processes we now have the capability to screen blood or tumour
a deadly disease into one that can be eradicated when and even by differences in the way an individual challenging, but we never lose sight of the fact that the tissues for hundreds of genetic alterations and other
treated in its early stage. metabolises medication. This increasing granularity reason we come to work is to help patients. We have parameters. We are seeing that mutations differ not
demonstrates the exponential possibilities in drug built strong R&D capabilities to address medical need only in patients diagnosed with the ‘same’ cancer, but
New tests for cancer screening, early diagnosis and discovery and development which enable physicians in oncology, immunology and inflammation, infectious also within an individual patient’s tumour. In addition,
breakthrough therapies are leading to previously to design a treatment regimen personalised to the diseases, neuroscience and ophthalmology, and remain we now know tumour development and growth are
unimagined outcomes. Cervical cancer, the third patient’s needs and optimised for efficacy and safety. open to other areas including debilitating and deadly intricately intertwined with the environment in which
most common cancer in women and a leading cause inherited genetic diseases where we can make a real the tumour cells reside as well as the way the immune
of cancer death worldwide, is a good example of the To advance the science of cancer immunotherapy difference for patients, many of whom are children. system responds to a cancer. In short, tumours are
progress made in fighting cancer.2 Today, cervical (CIT), Roche launched imCORE, a global network of Because we focus on diseases that are complex and complex structures designed to evade our natural
cancer is nearly 100% avoidable thanks to vaccination, 21 leading cancer immunotherapy centres of excellence. continually raise the bar in R&D, not all projects are defence mechanisms.
screening, diagnosis and treatment for human The goal of imCORE is to facilitate access to new successful. In fact, the majority of our efforts do not
papillomavirus (HPV) infection, its primary cause. technologies and emerging data among the top result in viable drugs. When studies do not lead to Technology advantages
Roche offers a leading portfolio of tests for screening researchers around the world. Within this network, an approval, we still benefit because they represent We are investing heavily in our novel T-cell bispecific
and diagnosis for HPV. basic and clinical scientists will work together with learning opportunities that bring us closer to solving antibody (TCB) platform, generating in-house
Roche scientists with the goal of developing potential the mysteries of disease. Despite these challenges, we engineered powerful anticancer antibodies designed
In ophthalmology, the introduction of Lucentis in cures for people with cancer. continue to invest heavily, take bold risks, and remain to physically link immune cells to cancer cells. One
2006 completely changed the space, restoring and relentless in our pursuit of innovative therapies and or two parts of the bispecifics bind to a cancer cell while
improving vision for patients destined to go blind. Roche invests more than CHF 9 billion in research state-of-the-art diagnostics that transform patients’ lives. another part connects to an immune cell, allowing the
and development (R&D) per year to bring the next
1 unaids.org/en/resources/fact-sheet | 2 cdc.gov/cancer/international/statistics.htm and IARC globocan.iarc.fr/old/FactSheets/cancers/cervix-new.asp
46 47Roche | Science and innovation Science and innovation | Roche
Patients with metastatic breast cancer
immune cell to move in and attack. These innovative Oak trial that showed significant improvement in in the case of ‘inflamed tumours’, immune cells called
bispecifics allow for an immediate, scalable and dose- overall survival compared with chemotherapy in T-lymphocytes are found to be already present in the
survived 20 months in 2001, while it is
controlled approach to harness the immune system people with recurrent non-small cell lung cancer who tumour microenvironment and so our goal is to use
against cancers; they are also suitable for combination had failed chemotherapy. We also announced positive medicines such as checkpoint inhibitors (eg, Tecentriq)
now 56 months.4, 5
therapies. Our strategy is to explore multiple bispecific results from the pivotal phase III Gallium study of or investigational molecules such as anti-TIGIT to
formats to identify those that maximise clinical benefit our anti-CD20 drug Gazyva/Gazyvaro in previously unleash those tumour- resident T-cells to attack and kill
for patients. The anti-CEA-CD3 TCB (RG7802) was untreated follicular lymphoma, the most common cancer cells. In the case of ‘immune-excluded tumours’,
the first T-cell bispecific developed by Roche to enter form of NHL. In this study, we challenged ourselves the T-cells are able to recognise tumours but are not We have invested powerful resources in diagnostics,
clinical trials and is being assessed in solid tumours. by going head-to-head against our own revolutionary able to infiltrate into the tumour microenvironment to clinical trials and real-world data that work seamlessly
Two different anti-CD20-CD3 bispecifics with different anti-CD20 drug, MabThera/Rituxan. Achieving exert an anticancer immune response. In this scenario, in real time to enhance our organisation’s ‘learning
formats (RG7828 and RG6026) are being studied for prolonged disease control in this chronically relapsing we are looking at combinations of Tecentriq with loop’, driving innovation from the laboratory to
the treatment of B-cell malignancies, such as non- form of lymphoma, Gazyva/Gazyvaro is a new targeted medicines such as Avastin and Cotellic, as the clinic, and back. This with the ultimate goal of
Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). landmark and provides hope and clinical benefit well as investigational molecules such as anti-TGFβ, revolutionising the ways in which we personalise
for patients around the world. to drive T-cells into the tumours. cancer treatments, providing subgroups of patients
In several types of cancer, CIT is rapidly improving with therapies that are specifically designed to treat
the standard of care. Yet, despite years of progress, Combination ambush For tumours that are found to be ‘immune deserts’, their cancer. With our rich pipeline, we are poised
cancer remains a devastating disease. In 2015, almost Combination therapy is nothing new in oncology; where no T-cells are present, the aim is to redirect to make dramatic progress in this area over the next
16 million people were diagnosed with cancer, while for more than half a century, patients have been treated or engage T-cells through the use of T-cell-directed decade. In addition, our clinical, diagnostic and
nine million people died of cancer.3 Even as mortality simultaneously with different chemotherapeutic agents bispecific antibodies such as our investigational technology experts are developing an industry-leading
rates are falling for many cancers, the burden of this and other drugs. What is new is the precision with drug RG7802 or our personalised cancer vaccines. platform that uses cutting-edge imaging science to
disease is increasing around the world due to ageing which we are targeting combination treatments to Alternatively, or in addition to TCBs, we are testing look inside a tumour and ‘see’ the effect of new drugs
populations and environmental factors. That is why launch a multi-pronged attack against the molecular molecules such as cergutuzumab amunaleukin in patients. Our teams then digitise, integrate and
we remain committed to science-driven research that causes of cancer. Viral diseases taught us that rational (CEA-IL-2v) and FAP-IL-2v (RG7461), which are interpret the complex data generated to drive better
will unlock biological mechanisms, enabling us to treat combination therapies are needed to simultaneously tumour-targeting antibodies carrying an engineered decisions for drug development.
increasing numbers of cancers, address drug resistance, hit the multiple mechanisms viruses use to spread variant of the T-cell growth factor, interleukin-2 (IL-2).
achieve long-term survival, and further the search for and resist treatment, and the same applies in cancer. These antibody-cytokine fusion proteins stimulate Extending our expertise in haematology
potential cures. Recent research into human immunology and tumour the proliferation of T-cells in tumours. We are also We have learned much about the nuances of blood
biology has led to innovative approaches to treating studying the anti-CD40 monoclonal antibody RG7876 cancers from studying millions of patients after we
Hitting cancer hard cancer by harnessing the power of the immune system. in order to prime and/or activate tumour antigen- pioneered the science that led to MabThera/Rituxan.
We currently have more than 40 molecules in One of these exciting approaches is the ability to specific T-cells by providing them with the help they We continue to investigate Venclexta, the breakthrough
clinical development in oncology. 50 clinical studies understand how best to characterise all known types need from other types of immune cells, called antigen- therapy co-developed with AbbVie, and approved by
are currently ongoing with Tecentriq, either as a of human cancer into just three primary immune presenting cells (APCs). Our anti-OX40 antibody also the FDA early in 2016 and later in the year in the EU
monotherapy or as part of combination therapy. phenotypes: ‘Inflamed tumours’, ‘Immune-excluded ‘primes’ tumour-fighting T-cells, to get them started on for the treatment of patients with chronic lymphocytic
These trials address a diversity of types of cancer, tumours’ or ‘Immune deserts’. These phenotypes their journey to attacking cancers, while simultaneously leukaemia (CLL). We are exploring other molecules
including lung, colon, gastric, ovarian, breast, kidney describe how T-cells of the immune system interact inhibiting immunosuppressive cells called regulatory to advance treatment of blood cancers, including
and bladder. Lung cancer claims more than 4,000 lives with the tumour. This classification system allows T-cells (Tregs). Finally, with molecules such as T-cell bispecific antibodies (anti-CD20-CD3), an oral
Research and each day and is the leading cause of cancer death us to better determine appropriate treatment and emactuzumab, we are removing immunosuppressive small molecule activator of tumour suppressor p53
development: globally. We are developing Tecentriq in combination combination strategies based on an individual’s cells from the tumour microenvironment—in this (idasanutlin), antibody-drug conjugates (polatuzumab)
roche.com/research_ with chemotherapy to address this need for treatment. immune biology, ensuring the best chance for an case, tumour-associated macrophages (TAMs). and other agents.
and_development In 2016, we announced results of our Tecentriq phase III effective antitumour immune response. For example,
3 American Association for Cancer Research, AACR Cancer Progress Report 2015. Clin Cancer Res, 2015. | 4 Slamon D, et al. N Engl J Med, 2001. |
5 Swain S, et al. N Engl J Med, 2015.
48 49Roche | Science and innovation Science and innovation | Roche
More recently, we have gone beyond blood cancers, improve core social communication and social novel compounds for pain targets, such as Nav1.7, that antibody, developed in collaboration with Chugai,
leveraging our insights in blood cell biology (haema- interaction deficits and has the potential to be the could yield non-opioid based mechanisms to treat pain. has entered phase I. As the complement system is a
tology) to benefit patients with non-malignant blood first treatment for core symptoms of ASD. key innate immune defense mechanism, we will study
disorders. Active preclinical or clinical programmes Digital biomarkers derived from data generated by the potential of this enhanced antibody within a
are underway for haemophilia A, polycythaemia We are studying two late-stage molecules, crenezumab consumer devices such as smartphones and wearables broad range of complement-mediated diseases.
vera, paroxysmal nocturnal haemaglobinuria and and gantenerumab, which are monoclonal antibodies have the potential to increase precision in clinical
beta-thalassaemia. In haemophilia A, a rare genetic with different modes of action designed to tackle decision-making and even predict disease course. Our In asthma, we began a phase II trial with a first-in-
disorder, for example, we unblinded a phase III study amyloid plaque that has build up in the brain of researchers have developed a suite of smartphone class antibody that inhibits binding of interleukin-33
showing a statistically significant reduction in the Alzheimer’s disease patients. We are using our unique assessments that allow the continuous monitoring of to the ST2 receptor. This pathway is thought to be
number of bleeds over time in people treated with expertise in diagnostics to develop new tests to assist symptom fluctuations across a number of neurological involved in a variety of lung ailments, and the ST2
emicizumab prophylaxis compared to those receiving clinicians in diagnosing Alzheimer’s. conditions, including Parkinson’s disease and MS. antibody, in-licensed from Amgen, potentially offers
no prophylactic treatment. These assessments will complement the conventional a game-changing treatment for patients with severe
In psychiatric disorders, we are testing a selective physician-led assessments, which are limited by the asthma. The innovative multi-pronged study is also
Neuroscience inhibitor of a subtype of gamma-butryic acid availability of expert centres, are resource-intensive, further exploring biomarkers associated with asthma
Just as the invention of the telescope opened up a receptors for cognitive impairment associated with and represent only a snapshot in time. and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
previously mysterious universe, advanced imaging schizophrenia in randomised clinical trials. We
technology has allowed us unparalleled access to the also began early-stage clinical studies with a novel Immunology, inflammation and infectious diseases We have promising candidates in our rich antiviral
workings of the human brain. We are at a turning compound, the trace amine-associated receptor 1 We are developing medicines in the area of immune- pipeline for the treatment of hepatitis B virus (HBV)
point in our understanding of biologic mechanisms (TAAR1) partial agonist, and have a PDE10A inhibitor mediated diseases to treat a number of illnesses, infection, including direct-acting antivirals and
underlying the pathology of nervous system disorders. for the treatment of negative symptoms in schizophrenia including rheumatoid arthritis (RA), systemic lupus immunomodulatory molecules, and we consider
With one of the strongest pipelines in the industry, in early clinical studies. Roche was the first company erythematosus and Sjögren’s syndrome. Our novel synergistic combinations of these two cornerstone
Roche is developing medicines for a range of serious to identify and characterise the TAAR family of Bruton’s tyrosine kinase inhibitor (BTKi), which mechanisms to be a key approach to achieving
neurological diseases, including Alzheimer’s disease, receptors starting back in 2002, and we are at the blocks B-cell signalling and the resulting excessive functional cure. These HBV molecules include the first
Parkinson’s disease (PD), Huntington’s disease, forefront of the development of selective TAAR1 immune response seen in autoimmune diseases, is viral RNA-targeting compound in early development.
autism spectrum disorders (ASD), multiple sclerosis agonist compounds. being studied in ambitious phase II trials for both RA Invented in-house, it comprises Locked Nucleic Acid
(MS), schizophrenia and spinal muscular atrophy and lupus. The RA trial is an innovative seven-arm (LNA) chemistry, gained through acquisition of
(SMA). We are also working with regulators and We initiated two phase II trials in SMA with an oral study with head-to-head comparison against the current Santaris Pharma in 2014. The novel LNA platform
payers concerning new trial designs and new molecule offering a novel mechanism of action (mRNA standard of care. We also initiated a phase II trial in allows access to previously impenetrable pathways
endpoints in order to support approvals of disease- splicing modulator) for tackling this debilitating and RA with our cadherin-11 antibody, believed to disrupt across many different diseases by attacking disease
modifying medicines. eventually fatal genetic neuromuscular disorder, which tissue cell interactions that drive inflammation in a targets at the level of RNA rather than protein.
is the most common of the genetically-based causes non-immunosuppressive manner. In addition, we began
For ASD, we continue to invest heavily in our novel of infant death. In amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a phase II study for the treatment of Sjögren’s syndrome, In antibacterial resistance, we are focusing on novel
vasopressin (V1a) receptor antagonist, which may a progressive neurodegenerative disease also known as an illness with no approved treatment and one of the targets and novel approaches to developing antibiotics
Lou Gehrig’s disease, we began an early-stage study on most common rheumatic autoimmune diseases. Our with the aim of curing severe multi-drug resistant
a novel molecule believed to inhibit a pathway leading internally discovered cathepsin S inhibitor is designed bacterial infections. Our next-generation beta-lactamase
Advances in imaging technology enable
to neuronal cell death implicated in ALS. Roche is also to interfere with a specific immune pathway dysregulated inhibitor, nacubactam, has broad-spectrum antimicrobial
working to find medications for chronic pain with in multiple autoimmune diseases. At the same time, it activity when combined with beta-lactam antibiotics. It
us to better understand the biology of
increased potency, improved safety, and which limit the is leaving intact other pathways of the immune system has a dual mechanism of action, effectively inhibiting a
addiction seen with current therapies. In collaboration which are involved, for example, in fighting infections. wide range of beta-lactamase enzymes (responsible for
nervous system disorders.
with Xenon Pharmaceuticals, we continue to develop A humanised complement inhibitor C5 monoclonal antibiotic resistance) and also inhibiting certain bacterial
50 51Roche | Science and innovation Science and innovation | Roche
Pharmaceuticals clinical pipeline
Phase I Phase II Phase III Registration
2
3 (1)
Oncology
4 (2)
22 (11)
Inflammation/ 1
8 (3)
Immunology
4 (2)
cell wall enzymes. This compound, which is currently We are learning more, moving faster, and leading
in phase I development, has been granted the FDA Fast the way with smarter drug development. 1
Track designation and is part of our recent collaboration
3
Neuroscience
agreement with the US Biomedical Advanced Research The very nature of personalised healthcare means
4 (1)
and Development Authority (BARDA). patient populations are becoming smaller and
8 (3)
treatments are growing more nuanced. It is a continuing
Ophthalmology feedback loop dependent on the confluence of science
Infectious diseases 3 (1)
Our highly innovative bispecific monoclonal anti- and data. We have access to more data than ever
VEGF-Ang2 antibody (RG7716), already under before, from research and development, clinical trials, 5 (4)
investigation in wet age-related macular degeneration, advanced genomic sequencing and modern diagnostics
entered a phase II study in diabetic macular oedema. testing, as well as from real-world sources like electronic 1 (1)
Ophthalmology
This two-pronged drug, developed with our proprietary medical records and patient registries. This window 1
CrossMab technology, binds to vascular endothelial into the collective experience of patients around the
growth factor (VEGF) with one arm of the bispecific world adds significantly to our knowledge and allows 1
Others
monoclonal antibody and to angiopoietin-2 (Ang 2) us to build on what we have been doing for decades—
3 (1)
with the other. We also have lampalizumab in understanding disease at its core. We are unlocking the
phase III studies in geographic atrophy. power in all these data and setting industry precedents
in ensuring their quality, validity, and consistency. Our pipeline of 74 new molecular entities (NMEs) covers a broad range of diseases and highly innovative technologies are applied to create and produce the active molecules.
Inherited genetic (‘rare’) diseases Numbers in brackets are referring to personalised healthcare projects included.
With our diverse technologies for inventing molecules Our internal experts and external partners are
with medicinal properties, we believe we can make a pioneering new approaches for biomarker analysis,
difference for patients with certain inherited genetic modern safety assessment approaches, next-generation
diseases (sometimes known as ‘rare diseases’). In many sequencing, artificial intelligence and other advanced
cases, these inherited genetic diseases manifest in analytics to bring us a more holistic understanding Innovating clinical trials that we feed back to refine the trial and better identify
infancy or childhood, leading to childhood debilitation from these data, thus affording deeper and faster For decades, development activities were drug-centric, potential drug combinations. In immune-mediated
or early death. There is an urgent need to develop insights into what the science is telling us. Our approach focused on proving clinical benefit in a one-size-fits-all diseases, we are using a multi-indication approach
therapies for these patients, who often have limited or combines our know-how in immunology and genomics medical landscape. As our science is patient-focused, that allows us to see early signs of efficacy while we
no available treatment options. SMA and Huntington’s to create a database of information about immune we strive to move our drug development in the same study our compounds. The cathepsin S inhibitor, for
disease are examples of inherited genetic diseases cells which is accessible to all our researchers. This is direction. The precision with which we are targeting example, is being tested for the treatment of Sjögren’s
for which we are currently developing candidate generating exciting cross-pollination and collaboration our medications and diagnostics to identify subgroups syndrome and, in parallel, in a small number of
therapeutics in collaborative partnerships. among scientists working on overlapping pathways and of patients, particularly in CIT, demands that we raise patients with celiac disease, where it is believed that
targets. Researchers working in cancer immunotherapy the bar with our clinical trial designs. We are creating similar immune principles apply.
Smart, agile product development (CIT), for instance, are trying to turn on the immune studies that simultaneously test a single drug in multiple
The pace of progress in medicine offers new hope for system, while those studying rheumatoid arthritis or diseases, test several drugs against a single disease, Furthermore, our decisions in drug development
patients. But delivering the next wave of paradigm- other autoimmune diseases seek to dampen immune and that condense the traditional three-phase clinical increasingly reflect the voices of our patients. From
shifting therapies is not for the faint of heart. It requires response. Shared insights can be valuable for both trials into a fluid, adaptive process. These efforts allow paperwork to protocols, from dosing to delivery
a whole new approach to developing drugs. We are teams and, in addition to these benefits, the database us to develop and bring the right and safe medicine to method, we are proactively introducing the perspective
breaking that new ground through novel technologies integrates internal data with data generated by the right patient in the most efficient manner. In CIT, of those who are at the core and heart of our work.
and cutting-edge analytic capabilities that leverage our external experts. for example, we are piloting a sophisticated trial design Are bi-weekly visits to a doctor’s office, for example, Pipeline:
combined strengths in pharmaceuticals and diagnostics. which features continual evaluation of an array of data for patients with SMA or ALS going to be a hardship? roche.com/pipeline
52 53Roche | Science and innovation Science and innovation | Roche
What are more preferable; subcutaneous, intravenous Creating value through transformative partnerships Neuroscience: Roche signed a license agreement with Antibacterial resistance: With ten million people
or intramuscular injections? We know it is challenging At Roche, we have long valued external innovation as Chugai for SA237, an anti-IL-6 receptor monoclonal projected to die from untreatable bacterial infections
for patients with SMA or ALS to participate in clinical a critical component of our R&D strategy. A significant antibody currently being investigated in two pivotal by 2050, Roche is leveraging decades of infectious
trials. We designed our studies for these devastating proportion of our sales is driven by products born phase III studies in neuromyelitis optica spectrum disease research to help address this threat.6 Teams
diseases using valuable input from patients and of research partnerships, and 45% of our current disorders (NMOSDs). This rare autoimmune disease from our Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions
caregivers. Similarly, we are collaborating closely with pipeline comprises partnered products. Now, more of the central nervous system is characterised mainly are embarking on a landmark alliance with the US
patient associations for Alzheimer’s disease, ASD and than ever, collaborations are critical to realise the by inflammation of the optic nerve and spinal cord. authority BARDA. It involves studying our next-
other neurological disorders as we study novel treatments potential of personalised healthcare as well as enhance There is no approved therapy for NMOSD, which is generation beta-lactamase inhibitor, potentially a
in those areas. With Lucentis, the current standard of our pipeline in key disease areas. We have exceptional often confused with multiple sclerosis at the time of breakthrough antibiotic to cure drug-resistant severe
care for many retinal diseases, we are exploring an alliances across our therapeutic, diagnostic and diagnosis. SA237 offers a potentially best-in-disease infections, as well as our in vitro diagnostics capabilities.
innovative delivery mechanism that would alleviate technological areas, helping us better understand and treatment of NMOSD and adds to our growing portfolio
the burden on patients who must visit their doctor leverage complex biology, find new drug candidates, to treat people with neuroinflammatory disorders. Oncology: We are increasingly collaborating with
for regular intravitreal injections. and make best use of a growing volume of genomic external partners, particularly in cancer immunotherapy,
and real-world data. Immunology: Research around the role of the to explore drug combinations that are rationally
Real-world considerations innate immune response in triggering autoimmunity designed to maximise the therapeutic benefit, and
Along with clinical superiority, we also demonstrate Partnering at Roche builds on our culture, one in has been a growing area of interest at Roche. We tailored to the biology associated with patients’ tumours.
the value of our products in everyday settings. These which we listen carefully to a potential partner and entered into an early R&D collaboration with Monash In 2016, we entered into ten new clinical collaboration
real-world considerations are increasingly important then creatively structure a collaboration that meets University, Melbourne, Australia, which will focus agreements to develop our lead immunotherapy drug
in ensuring that our products are accepted by national both parties’ needs. Our choice is driven by searching on a novel innate immunity checkpoint modulator Tecentriq for a broad number of haematological and
policy-makers and adopted into medical practice. for partners that share our passion for innovative discovered by Monash principal investigators, who solid tumour types. In addition, we announced
This dimension adds to our development complexities. science. We look for opportunities that address unmet are considered leaders in this space. An anti-ST2 collaborations with BioNTech, a Germany-based
A large proportion of the drugs in our pipeline, for medical need and have the potential to revolutionise investigational medicine was in-licensed from Amgen biotechnology company, to develop, manufacture and
instance, are being developed with sophisticated the standard of care. We also keep our finger on the which complements our existing R&D programmes commercialise novel messenger RNA (mRNA)-based,
treatment schedules or advanced diagnostics. What pulse of emerging science through alliances with and strengthens our respiratory portfolio. Anti-ST2 individualised cancer vaccines, and with Hanmi, an
needs to be done, then, in countries with few radiation leading academic and entrepreneurial investigators. has the potential to be best in class in patients with established innovative drug company in Korea to
devices, cooling apparatus or laboratory capacities? How Whether small or large, we value partnerships equally. high-need asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary develop a novel pan-RAF inhibitor.
do we accommodate the specific needs of different disease, as well as other IL33-mediated diseases.
countries? From subtle treatment variations to major In 2016, we entered a number of transformative Academic alliances: We are working with
economic disparities, we are making great strides in partnerships: We also entered into an option agreement with distinguished scientists on cutting-edge projects at
understanding how medical care is delivered across Novimmune for NI-0101, an anti-TLR4 (toll-like leading institutions such as Harvard University,
the globe and how we can ensure that our medicines Ophthalmology: New alliances are helping extend receptor 4) investigational medicine. Advances in Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge
can deliver tangible benefit for patients worldwide. our scientific leadership in retinal diseases. We signed our scientific understanding of cellular and molecular University, Max Planck Institutes, and Swiss Federal
a license agreement with Eleven Biotherapeutics, immunology are guiding the development of potential Institute of Technology. Through these collaborations,
Cambridge, US, for its novel anti-IL-6 monoclonal new treatments, and we believe NI-0101 has the potential we seek to find and develop new molecules, invent new
Partnerships help us stay on the front line
antibody, which, in combination with standard-of-care to be a best-in-class therapy for the treatment of research tools, and further advance our understanding
anti-VEGF therapy, is positioned to be a first-in-class rheumatoid arthritis and other autoimmune diseases. of disease mechanisms.
of innovation.
treatment for wet age-related macular degeneration
and diabetic macular oedema.
6 amr-review.org
54 55Roche | Science and innovation Science and innovation | Roche
Dr Amy Abernethy,
Flatiron Health
“Advancing cancer
treatment together”
As a cancer researcher, clinician, and caregiver, I am We are now capturing data from over 1.5 million
at a unique vantage point in our fight against cancer. patients and 260 cancer care providers, which opens
For 20 years, I worked as a practicing oncologist. up new vistas for physicians and scientists. Our
I spent much of my career at Duke University, where partnership with Roche is helping us to accelerate
I last served as Professor of Medicine and Head of our programmes. In addition, we are collaborating
the Cancer Care Research Program. In 2014, I joined on designing clinical trials for promising new
Flatiron Health because I saw an opportunity to make cancer treatments.
a profound difference by bringing together the fields
of medicine and technology. Roche and Flatiron share a vision of personalised
healthcare, which resonates with me as Secretary
Flatiron was founded on the premise of leveraging of the Board of the Personalised Medicine Coalition.
‘big data’ to help researchers discover more effective Flatiron also works with Roche’s strategic partner
therapies and better match cancer patients with Foundation Medicine, which analyses variations of
life-saving treatments. the human genome to find targeted cancer therapies.
The next step in our collaboration is truly exciting:
Gleaning insights from ‘real-world evidence’ combining real-world evidence with genomic analysis
Today, only about 4% of cancer patients in the US of cancer patients to learn which therapies work best
are enrolled in clinical trials. These data are our for each individual.
principle source for analysing which treatments
are most effective, as well for providing clues about As a physician, I always come back to the human
developing future therapies. But what about the other impact of our work. One of my patients who lost her
96% of patients who have cancer and are undergoing battle to skin cancer asked me to use the insights from
treatment, without access to clinical trials? her tumour tissue, her family history with melanoma
and her treatment to help others. We owe it to her and
Flatiron focuses on the 96% of cancer patients many other patients to make the best use of the pearls
by capturing their real-world data through our of information they have left behind.
OncoCloudTM platform. With the help of trained
experts, we take ‘unstructured data’ such as medical As a daughter, I know only too well the limits of
case notes, X-rays and pathology reports, and today’s medicine. My father is suffering from an
transform them into validated information in our extremely difficult-to-treat cancer. For me, this
Video: registry. We have strict procedures to ensure the underscores the urgency of doing everything we
roche.com/ar16bio quality of the entries and patient anonymity. can to find more effective oncology treatments.
56 57Roche | Access to healthcare Access to healthcare | Roche
Acce s s to
Material topics covered in this chapter
healthcare
· Growth strategy in emerging and developed markets
· Sustainable healthcare
· Pricing
· Disease awareness and treatment education
We design access programmes at the country level to support
healthcare systems, improve diagnosis, educate and build Contribution to the UN SDGs
local skills, and address affordability issues.
Measuring blood glucose levels with the highest degree of accuracy is a precondition to managing diabetes successfully.
58 59Roche | Access to healthcare Access to healthcare | Roche
G
round breaking advances in medical science are only
meaningful when they reach patients.
Today, about 400 million people across the globe We are making progress but there is a long way to go
lack access to essential healthcare services.1 Access to To really make a difference on the ground, we need Disease awareness and modern tools for reliable and fast diagnosis are some of the key factors for successful medical interventions.
healthcare is one of the biggest challenges society is a deep understanding of the challenges in each
facing and one that we have to work in partnership to individual healthcare system. We take a systematic
address. It is a multidimensional challenge. Improving and comprehensive approach, identifying the key
one aspect of healthcare is often not enough, especially hurdles and the right stakeholders, in order to develop million more people in the country, and a reduction like to live with a disease, the challenges patients and
in treatment of complex diseases like cancer. Access to tailored, effective solutions that reach more patients. in the average time-to-treatment of 74%. their families are facing, and the role diagnostics and
a hospital for a cancer patient is only beneficial if there Partnerships with a broad spectrum of stakeholders treatments play in managing disease. Our aim is to
is a trained oncologist. In turn, access to a diagnostic are essential to improve access to healthcare for people Awareness—a crucial factor for success support the voice of patients and to foster a constructive
test for a disease is only effective if accompanied by in need. To date, we have developed 60 access plans in Awareness of disease and symptoms is essential for healthcare debate for all.
education and awareness. total, each with a clear proposal for overcoming access screening and early detection. To support this, a
barriers within a particular country. These plans are major focus in 2016 was connecting countries so as to As patient organisations represent patient views on
We believe we have a responsibility to improve access integrated into the local business, ensuring continued further best practice-sharing. We found, for example, issues surrounding healthcare, including timely and
for those who need it most and, by working together and sustained support, thus demonstrating an ongoing that people in the Philippines are dealing with very equitable access to treatment, they help shape the
with our partners and resources all over the world, commitment to those markets as an integral part of similar issues to people in Venezuela, but because they current and future healthcare environment by making
we have the ability to help facilitate change. In 2016, our business model. are in different geographies, they are unaware of each patients’ voices heard.
we strengthened our commitment to widening access other’s approach. In 2016, we held our first ever summit
through an industry partnership, Access Accelerated, Access to healthcare is a complex challenge dedicated to developing and sharing access best practices Exchanging knowledge and ideas
which brings together 22 biopharmaceutical companies We believe four key factors need to be in place for across the globe. We find that the best way to promote The 9th Annual International Experience Exchange for
to leverage innovation, expertise and resources to successful treatment: awareness, diagnosis, healthcare access programmes is through collaboration across Patient Organisation (IEEPO), a large global patient
address the treatment of non-communicable diseases capacity and funding. We have a wide array of different geographies with similar hurdles. In a virtual organisation meeting fully sponsored by Roche, was
(NCDs). These diseases, such as cancer and heart initiatives to support all four areas and improve access community, we have shared questions and ideas and held in Copenhagen, Denmark, in March 2016 with an
disease, are a significant and growing problem in low to our medicines and tests. They include working with developed an online case study library. This will greatly overarching theme of ‘innovation’. A record total of
and low-middle income countries, where nearly 80% governments on disease awareness campaigns, training support the implementation of the local access plans 223 delegates from 45 countries attended IEEPO 2016,
of deaths from these kinds of diseases occur.2 Access lab technicians in sophisticated diagnostics, training in the coming years.
Accelerated is a multi-year programme facilitating community healthcare workers, and providing flexible
Four key factors need to be in place for
cooperation with other healthcare stakeholders to pricing solutions. Patient organisations—vital partners
achieve a tangible impact on improving access to Patients and patient organisations are essential
successful treatment: awareness, diagnosis,
treatment and care of NCDs. What is more, thanks In Argentina, a comprehensive local programme has partners for Roche and we share a common vision
to our focus on diagnostics and medicines as well as been implemented which has led to an expansion of to improve patient access to innovative treatments
healthcare capacity and funding.
on health-related data, we have expertise across a oncology treatment coverage to approximately one and services. They help us understand what it is
range of areas related to access.
1 who.int/mediacentre/news/releases/2015/uhc-report | 2 who.int/mediacentre/news/releases/2015/noncommunicable-diseases
60 61Roche | Access to healthcare Access to healthcare | Roche
Dramatic impact of HIV response on life expectancy3
Age
70
60
World
Zimbabwe
Uganda
50 Kenya
Swaziland
and many of the sessions focused on innovative ways to around the value of and access to innovative healthcare South Africa
empower and involve patients, for example in health solutions with various stakeholders—a true example Botswana
technology assessments (HTAs). Patient centricity in of patient empowerment. 40 Sub-Sahara
drug development, clinical and access processes is 1950 1970 1990 2010 2015
crucial, and we want to help patient organisations Success in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
have respective conversations at local level. Roche is a supporter of the European Idiopathic
Pulmonary Fibrosis Group, which had been working
Based on the IEEPO model, but with a focus on to ensure that a written declaration calling for
country- and region-specific topics, Roche organises improved access to treatments was accepted by the In Africa, tragically many infants with HIV die before sub-Saharan Africa—requires particular focus. In
experience exchanges for patient organisations at a European Parliament—a goal achieved in 2016. This their first birthday. To help diagnose and combat HIV 2016, we continued to implement our Africa Strategy,
local level, too. In 2016, the Eastern Europe, Middle was a special moment for everyone affected by this infections in children and adults, Roche partnered which involves developing tailored solutions with
East and Africa (EEMEA) region conducted its second devastating disease, which is associated with a low life with UNAIDS, the Clinton Health Access Initiative, local partners.
Annual EEMEA Experience Exchange for patient expectancy, lack of awareness, diagnosis issues and the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief and the
organisations, and in Latin America, its first Patient treatment delays. We trust this will open a new chapter Global Fund. Through our Global Access Programme Access in many countries is beset by unexpected
Group Workshop on Health Policy. In April, the first- in this disease and we will continue to support the we have initiated the largest infant testing programme challenges. Take shipping of our medicines for example.
ever patient organisation exchange in sub-Saharan excellent work of patient organisations in this area. in the world featuring a dried blood sampling Some products have to be shipped in special, large
Africa took place. In Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire, 46 patient diagnostic technique—to date, over seven million cargo boxes that maintain the low temperatures
group representatives from 11 countries took the unique Diagnosis—vital for effective therapies infants have been tested for HIV. required by many cancer medicines, but these are
opportunity and shared best practices on strategic Diagnosis of a disease can be complex, but is vital to not at all practical for delivering medicines to remote
planning, fundraising and communications. ensuring the right treatment choice. At Roche, we The Global Access Programme is just one part of a locations only accessible by small aircraft. In 2016,
work with many global and local country partners, concerted approach to support UNAIDS in combating specialists at Roche invented a new ‘small cold chain
Roche also supports training for patient organisations including local governments, non-governmental HIV. The impact of the UNAIDS programme goes box’, which has significantly improved on this situation,
as part of its membership of the European Patient organisations (NGOs), patient organisations and beyond access. There is already a compelling body of and shipped it to more than 50 countries in Africa and
Academy on Therapeutic Innovation, the first patient- other healthcare companies, to find tailored solutions evidence documenting the extraordinary health and other regions of the world.
led project of the pan-European Innovative Medicines to barriers to diagnosis and access. We also engage economic benefits that will accrue from success in
Initiative. The first-year of the expert-level online with global health institutions, such as the World fighting HIV. As a result of scaled-up HIV treatment Our goal is to increase access to our innovative
training course already showed impressive results: Health Organization (WHO), to address key global services, overall life expectancy in sub-Saharan Africa treatments for patients across the globe whilst creating
Prior to the training, only 12% of trainees advised health challenges. has sharply increased.3 Receiving antiretroviral a long-term sustainable business environment.
regulatory agencies and only 8% advised HTAs—these therapy leads to remarkable improvements in quality
figures jumped to 40% and 52% respectively six months Roche has been able to support Novo Nordisk’s of life for people living with HIV and substantially Funding and innovative pricing solutions
after they finished the course. Consequently, these Changing Diabetes in Children Programme, for improves their economic prospects.4, 5 Funding for healthcare investment and reimbursement
individuals became a trusted partner in discussions example, by providing free blood glucose monitoring of medicines and tests is critical to protect patients from
tools, testing supplies and education to healthcare Supporting healthcare capacity financial burden. The current economic environment
professionals and people with diabetes as well as Healthcare capacity requires trained teams working and increasing demands on healthcare systems are
As a result of scaled-up HIV treatment
their caregivers in seven countries in Africa. About together with the right equipment to provide the best making it more challenging for payers to fund the latest
8,000 children have been reached to date, with chance of successful treatment. Fundamentally we treatment options for many patients. This is why we
services, overall life expectancy in sub-
90 clinics established and over 3,200 healthcare believe that everyone deserves access to medicines. are using more flexible pricing approaches, including
professionals trained. And the region currently with the least access— differential pricing, to support patient access to our
Saharan Africa has sharply increased.
3 United Nations Population Division. World Population Prospect, 2015. | 4 Rosen, S., et al. Effect of antiretroviral therapy on patients’ economic
wellbeing: five-year follow-up. AIDS, 2014. | 5 Lifson, A. and Grund, B. Increased Quality of Life with Immediate ART Initiation: results from the START
Trial (# 475), in Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections, 2016.
62 63Roche | Access to healthcare Access to healthcare | Roche
Collaboration with private insurance companies provides increased access to cancer care.
Supported development of 21 new
private insurance policies covering Pipeline of 20 additional
cancer therapy cancer insurance policies
Cancer
insurance for
millions 12 global and regional
medicines. Scientific and clinical insights are leading have coverage. Since there are many more cancer
us to develop more effective medicines that can be insurance products in the global pipeline, we are 22 countries involved partners involved
used across multiple indications or in combination estimating this number will only continue to grow.
with other drugs, and the benefits for patients can
vary. We believe these different benefits should be Furthermore, we are currently exploring options to
reflected in the way medicines are priced, marking expand the initiative beyond cancer funding. In 2016,
a shift from the traditional approach of pricing a we started to explore expanding the scope to areas As many more cancer insurance products are in development by multiple providers, the number of people gaining access to cancer care is expected to grow strongly.
medicine by pack or by vial. We are implementing this such as molecular diagnostic tests, multiple sclerosis
through Personalised Reimbursement Models (PRM). and diabetes.
We are currently running PRM pilots across Europe. We are currently working with 12 global and regional
When countries demonstrate flexibility in their partners in 22 countries, including direct insurers and generation. We collaborate with the US Centers for In August, an agreement signed in Kenya by the
systems and approach, we work with them to ensure reinsurers. One benefit of collaborating with the right Disease Control and Prevention on training of the Ministry of Health and Roche heralded the start
the required infrastructure is in place. We expect partners is that we have been able to replicate successful next generation of lab technicians. Benefitting from of activities. These include breast cancer awareness
PRM to be implemented over the next couple of years insurance products in other regions. With many new the healthcare project management know-how within programmes, improvements in screening and
on a country-by-country basis, with some countries insurance products in the pipeline, there is tremendous our Diagnostics Division, we can act as a catalyst to diagnostics, training for five new oncologists and
already reporting first successes. potential to expand coverage for many more millions bring hospital builders and medical devices companies six oncology nurses, support for the development of
of people. Due to the proven success of this approach, into the region. best-practice national treatment guidelines, and an
Private insurance to complement public the model has been replicated by other companies, increase in the number of cancer treatment centres
healthcare systems organisations and healthcare systems. In 2016, formal agreements (memorandums of in Kenya. Access to medicine will be made available
We work with private insurance companies to make understanding) were signed with several sub-Saharan to patients treated at public institutions, with the
a meaningful impact on patient access to diagnostics A focus on partnerships for progress in Africa countries, including Ghana and Kenya, following the government of Kenya and Roche jointly covering
and treatments through creating private funding As part of our Africa Strategy, Roche is improving first agreement with Côte d’Ivoire in 2014. The aim of the costs.
solutions in countries where public coverage is each step of a patient’s journey by addressing all four these agreements is to improve access to timely and
inadequate. Working together with local insurance key access factors: awareness, diagnosis, healthcare precise diagnostic services and treatments to make We partnered with Breast Cancer Initiative 2.5 to
company partners focusing on cancer coverage, we capacity and funding. We aim to bring quality high-quality care more widely available. hold a summit in March, offering breast cancer
have enabled the launch of several private insurance healthcare to all Africans, regardless of where they education for multi-disciplinary teams of healthcare
products in countries like China, India, Portugal, live or their ability to pay. We work towards this goal In Ghana, an agreement with the Ministry of Health professionals in sub-Saharan Africa.6 The event in
Vietnam and Thailand. By late 2016, more than with a thoughtful and multidisciplinary approach to was signed to improve access to care for people with Ghana welcomed 75 attendees—including surgeons,
20 types of cancer insurance policies were available partnerships, collaboration and investment, and by breast cancer and viral hepatitis. Signed in May 2016, radiologists, pharmacists, nurses and oncologists—
in different countries, and millions of people now empowering local healthcare providers. the initiative includes setting up disease awareness from 13 academic and public hospitals in six different
programmes, conducting screening to promote early countries. The teams worked together to identify gaps
There are many fundamental barriers in regions of detection, establishing two centres of excellence, in their respective institutions, prioritise needs and
We have contributed to more than
sub-Saharan Africa, from lack of basic infrastructure improving diagnostic facilities at treatment centres, develop 6- and 12-month action plans to improve
(eg, access to hospitals, clean water) to the limited training specialists, developing a national cancer patient care and strengthen centres of excellence.
20 types of cancer insurance policies in
availability of treatments and adequate care. While it registry to better understand the disease burden, and
is clear that it is not Roche’s remit to build hospitals working on establishing national treatment guidelines.
different countries that provide coverage
or hire physicians, Roche contributes by supporting
training of healthcare professionals and supporting
to millions of people.
pragmatic epidemiology and socio-demographic data
6 fredhutch.org/en/labs/phs/projects/breast-cancer-initiative_2-5.html
64 65Roche | Access to healthcare Access to healthcare | Roche
Marianne Gilchrist,
Swiss Re
“Joining forces to address
oncology needs in China”
I grew up with the insurance industry. For 42 years, Data is the lifeblood of the insurance industry and
my father worked for Scottish Life Assurance in Roche, we found a partner who provided us with
Company. At age 15, my first after-school job was accurate information on the incidence of cancer,
filing life insurance policies in the safe at Scottish disease progression, treatment pathways and
Life's Head Office in Edinburgh, Scotland. associated costs. This allowed us to work with local
and international insurance companies to design
After finishing my degree at Oxford, I worked for policies to cover oncology treatment. By being able
several years in financial services, marketing and to calculate the risks, insurance companies can run
advertising. In 1999, I discovered my affinity for Asia a sustainable business and still offer individuals
and realised that it was in the world of insurance affordable premiums.
where I truly felt a sense of purpose. I did take a break
from this path from 2009–2011 to study clinical As a reinsurance company, Swiss Re takes on part of
psychology and set up a private practice in Singapore. the risks as well as the rewards. It is important to note
What I learned in those years has served me very that these insurance policies in China do not stipulate
well, and I am sure will continue to do so. the use of any company’s products—this is about
expanding overall access to treatment.
I joined Swiss Re in 2012 as Head of Health Solutions
in Asia. Private insurance is still developing in many In addition to data, Roche provides education
countries in Asia, where healthcare costs are often programmes on cancer prevention and leverages its
paid out of pocket and an illness such as cancer can connections with leading physicians, who give
wipe out a lifetime of savings. insurance agents a basic understanding of oncology.
Swiss Re works with government regulators to help
Closing society’s protection gaps ensure that patients understand the policies and
In China, cancer is the leading cause of death. The buy the coverage they need.
numbers are shocking: almost three million fatalities
and over four million newly diagnosed cases every Opportunities are opening up for private insurance
year.1 Most oncology treatments are not covered by in China. Our collaboration with Roche illustrates
government-provided healthcare. Swiss Re saw an how creative approaches can close society’s protection
opportunity to address that treatment gap, but we gaps and demonstrates the power of cross-industry
were unable to do it alone. That is why we partnered partnership in improving access to healthcare.
with Roche.
1 Chen W, Zheng R, Zhang S, et al. Cancer Statistics in China, 2015. CA: J. Clin, 2016.
66 67Roche | Our people Our people | Roche
Our people Material topics covered in this chapter
· Employee engagement and talent retention
· Compensation/benefits
· Leadership commitments
Our employees are making a valuable difference for patients · Organisational effectivenesss
and are committed to doing their very best work with
Contribution to the UN SDGs
integrity, courage and passion.
Diversity and inclusion are vital to foster innovation by encouraging different perspectives, ideas and thinking styles. We strive to create
a work environment that includes all facets of diversity.
68 69Roche | Our people Our people | Roche
W
orking for Roche means more than just having a job. It is
an opportunity to make a difference, think and act boldly
and be a part of a global community of talented people.
Engagement at Roche and successful careers, and a great work environment
Our employees make Roche distinct and special. where people feel valued and respected. In South San Francisco, 5,600 employees volunteered a total of 14,500 hours and donated USD 315,000 for the Genentech Gives Back week.
Through our highly engaged people, who are deeply
connected to our purpose of Doing now what patients We take time to ask every employee for their opinion,
need next, we are able to achieve the highest standards. and measure their engagement through regular global
employee surveys. We then act on the results together, Diversity and inclusion foster innovation results reflect this progress: In 2009, only 5% of our
Roche provides people with a rewarding and enriching building an even better place to work. We fundamentally believe that innovation comes top key positions in Diagnostics were filled by women;
experience. This means focusing on the things that from leveraging the diverse perspectives of our talented by the end of 2016, the figure had risen to 22%. We
matter most: respect for diverse perspectives, recognition Giving back to our local communities people. We strive to create a work environment that have since expanded the programme to include those
that celebrates successes as well as healthy risk-taking, Being present in more than 100 countries around the includes all facets of diversity: age, gender, race, who have experience in developing regions. This also
leaders who embrace our values and leadership world, we are proud to be part of our local communities, ethnicity, sexual orientation and religious affiliation, provides an element of reverse mentoring, allowing
commitments, development that enables meaningful be it at our headquarters in Basel or at any of our but also the less visible differences such as educational the sponsors to gain deeper insights around the
other sites. We engage in a variety of ways to support background, professional knowledge, personality challenges as well as opportunities in new and
giving back to our local communities. type, thinking style and life experience. emerging markets.
Consistently voted a great place to work
Our employees in South San Francisco, for example, One of our Leadership Commitments is to take a Increasing our employees’ experience in both
participate in different forms of organised volunteer genuine interest in people. This emphasises not only established and developing regions
Our employees and external institutions consistently rank us as activity, from cleaning up a school to working at a the importance of each person’s uniqueness, but also With our global presence, it is critical that we
an employer of choice. In 2016, both Roche and Genentech were local food bank, over a week-long period called the importance of each person feeling a part of a team understand the specific challenges and circumstances
recognised by Forbes as being among America’s top companies Genentech Gives Back. In 2016, a total of 245 projects and engaging with inclusive-minded leaders. We in all the markets where we operate. We want to
to work for. We ranked first and second on the biotechnology list. were completed by 5,600 volunteers during this special launched our Inclusion Index in the Pharmaceuticals increase the number of employees—particularly
Renowned organisations such as The Great Place to Work Institute Give Back week, involving 137 non-profit organisations. Division in 2016, asking our employees how well we leaders—who have experience in both established and
and Top Employers Institute placed Roche on their best places to A total of 14,500 hours were volunteered and are doing in building respect and gaining their trust, developing regions. Among other things, we support
work lists for a number of years and in several countries, including USD 315,000 donated by employees. the hallmarks of an inclusive organisation. In 2017, international assignments to help individuals gain this
Brazil, China, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Mexico, Poland, the index will measure inclusion Roche-wide as part experience, with over one in four of these assignments
Spain, Switzerland and the UK. Read more in our ‘Community engagement’ chapter on page 90 of our next Global Employee Opinion Survey (GEOS). being to and from developing regions. We also look for
that experience when hiring, as 29% of hires into key
In our Diagnostics Division, we pioneered a programme leadership positions have developing regions experience.
providing opportunities for high-potential women to Bringing this diverse experience and those capabilities
systematically acquire sponsorship that would establish into the company ensures our leadership readiness for
another pathway for valuable feedback and further the continued growth in these markets.
career progression. This approach is effective and the
70 71Roche | Our people Our people | Roche
People: five-year goals
based on 2014 figures
Developing our leaders +30%
29%
26%
16% 18% 19% 21% 22% 23% in the representation of women
13%
Fostering strong leadership in key leadership roles
+30%
22% 25%
20% in the representation of people with established and
19%
We want our people to have great leaders, who For our executive leadership programme, we are developing region experience in key leadership roles
instil our values and act as role models, as well as assessing major trends in the changing healthcare
foster accountability for our leadership commitments environment, such as the growth of digital healthcare,
throughout all levels of the company. In order to and focusing on the new leadership capabilities it
75% or more Top quartile
continuously cultivate our leadership culture, we offer will require. In 2016, 87% of our Leading@Roche 62% 67% 71%
a broad portfolio of tailor-made leadership development participants reported a positive leadership change ranking in overall employee engagement score,
options to enhance leadership competencies and skills. within six months. And, 85% of the participants’ measured by the Global Employee Opinion Survey
managers said they noticed a positive leadership
In addition to our local courses, over 2,600 leaders change in their employees after six months as well. At
attended global leadership development programmes Genentech, we launched an initiative called Leadership 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2020 Goal
baseline
in 2016, which include initiatives such as Leading Excellence, enabling each leader to evaluate how they
Leaders@Roche and Leading People@Roche. live the promise of our leadership commitments and
our company values.
We want to increase by 30% the number
Our programmes push boundaries outside the We are already seeing the longer-term leadership
Our leadership commitments
classroom, as well. For example, the NJIA (which impact of NJIA: One year after the first group travelled
of leaders with experience in both
means ‘path’ in Kaswahili) programme—launched to Tanzania, all Roche participants agreed it has had
1. I take a genuine interest in people. in 2015—involves Roche leaders travelling to a ‘profound impact on my leadership behaviour and
established and developing regions.
2. I listen carefully, tell the truth, and explain ‘the why.’ Tanzania and working in partnership with local mindset’. Meanwhile in Tanzania, a campaign resulting
3. I empower and trust people to make decisions. non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to address from the programme to increase awareness of cervical
4. I discover and develop the potential in people. current healthcare challenges in the country. Our cancer screening has already led to new funding
5. I strive for excellence and extraordinary results. leaders gain on-the-ground insights needed to operate allocation for nursing staff training.
6. I set priorities and simplify work. in emerging markets, and work with our NGO
7. I congratulate people for a job well done. partners to implement sustainable solutions locally.
72 73Roche | Our people Our people | Roche
94,052
employees* worldwide Europe
40,869
North America Asia
Attracting and retaining the best talent
25,494 21,235
Providing space for innovation
Cultural diversity is growing, the emergence of a We also offer numerous additional benefits and/or
multi-generational workforce—which means five amenities for employees which vary from site to site. Latin America Africa Australia/New Zealand
generations of people working more often together in These may include pension schemes, health insurance, 4,587 1,166 701
the same office—is increasing, and millions of women childcare, medical facilities, flu vaccinations, preventive
will enter the global workforce in coming years. Being health screenings, discounts with local retailers, and
a great place to work which attracts the best people transportation to/from the workplace.
aligned to our values and purpose is paramount to
our continued success. To accommodate individual circumstances, we Employees by operating unit Employees per function
support flexible working models, which are actively in
Rewarding and recognising our employees use in many countries. They enable employees to work Roche Pharmaceuticals Roche Diagnostics Marketing and distribution Research and development Services
Our efforts to strike an attractive balance between a from home, buy or sell days, or job share. We have 51,410 34,076 30,079 21,980 17,052
highly competitive base salary, performance-linked seen a particularly sharp increase in the utilisation of
rewards, and flexible benefits tailored to different flexible working models allowing working parents and Chugai Corporate Manufacturing and logistics General and administration
needs are a key focus. Through our Roche Connect others to balance personal time and work time in an 7,309 1,257 19,116 5,825
programme, we promote ownership in and partnership optimal way. In Latin America, where circumstances
with Roche by allowing employees to purchase Roche have demanded an even greater accommodation, Roche
stock at a discounted price in many countries. In 2016, has created a regional flexible benefits programme to
we incorporated China into the initiative and have allow additional alternative compensation—such as
seen the highest participation rate since its launch. fuel vouchers in areas with fuel shortages. hire and promote a diverse group of talented people, Furthermore, we proactively encourage our
and help new ideas and innovative solutions scientists to publish their work. We want them to
We are now in the third year of the Applause to flourish. do great research, have the opportunity to build
programme, an online tool which employees can use their external reputation, and engage with other
Promoting employee wellbeing
to recognise each other directly, through e-cards or It remains one of our goals to hire and retain the great scientific minds.
reward point nominations. In 2016, overall usage was up very best scientists in the world. To do so, we are
With ‘Live well. Find your balance’—an initiative to foster a by 9% since its launch, with over 200,000 peer-to-peer expanding our recruitment efforts beyond the Ultimately, we are committed to cultivating a rich
culture of health and wellbeing among Roche employees—we recognitions among our employees. traditional universities and actively collaborating working environment; one that allows individuals
promote awareness of and education in healthy life styles, with academic institutions to attract the best talent. to thrive and make a difference for patients.
nutrition and emotional wellbeing, and we offer resources such as Giving people space to innovate We also offer a number of internships and post-
gyms, sports clubs, medical services and counselling. The yearly In recent years, we have challenged our own thinking doctoral research positions.
Global Wellbeing Week, which is part of the initiative, involved on how to find the very best people, identify and
participation by 152 sites in 2016. nurture potential, and assess performance. Through Read Haruku’s story on page 76
targeted initiatives, leaders are better equipped to
* Number of employees expressed in full-time equivalents
74 75Roche | Our People Our People | Roche
Haruku Shirahata,
The University of Tokyo
“It’s exciting to make a
real contribution.”
It all started in December 2014, when I raised my work, we were able to identify potential for efficiency
hand during laboratory work at the University of gains and reducing waste.
Tokyo. Professor Hirokazu Sugiyama from the
department of Chemical System Engineering was My supervisors were very approachable and open to
asking for candidates for a new internship programme discussing my projects or answering questions. During
at Roche in Switzerland. lunch or coffee breaks, there were many opportunities
to network, discuss ideas and meet new people.
I was a little nervous about leaving home and academia
for the first time, but I found the courage to go ahead. During my internship, it was clear to me that diversity
I began my two-month internship in August 2015. is important to Roche. My colleagues were happy to
This was my first time living outside Japan and away have someone from Japan on the team and valued my
from my family, so a lot was new to me. I shared an input. I was also pleased to see that almost half of the
apartment in Basel with other interns and commuted 2,000 employees in Kaiseraugst were women.
every day to Kaiseraugst, where Roche produces drugs
to treat cancer, hepatitis, and many other diseases. I am now back at the University of Tokyo, pursuing a
master’s degree and a doctorate in chemical engineering.
Everyone plays a valuable role My experience at Roche brought me closer to the
On my first day, the plant manager welcomed new impact my work can have on patients, and convinced
interns and employees, and emphasised how every me that I have chosen the right career path.
single one of us would play an important role in
producing life-saving medicines for patients. Right The hands-on experience also showed me how
from the beginning, I was aware that teamwork engineering can add value to a team of pharmacists,
was important. chemists and other specialists when it comes to
making processes more efficient and environmentally
In the facility for liquid sterile drugs, my main friendly. It’s exciting to make a real contribution!
project was optimising batch production for rubber
materials used as stoppers in glass vials and syringes. I would definitely recommend this programme to
These rubber materials are critical to maintaining the other students. The key to getting the most from this
sterility of the pharmaceutical products, so I felt that I experience is to make an extra effort to ask questions,
could truly make a difference in making products safe share your thoughts and engage with people. And
for patients as well as contribute to more sustainable remember, even though your contribution may be one
batch production. I was proud to see that, through my of many, it does make a difference to the lives of patients.
76 77Roche | Safety, health and environment Safety, health and environment | Roche
Safety, health
and e nv ironme nt
Material topics covered in this chapter
We strive to ensure a safe working environment and to
· Occupational accidents
protect the health of our employees. Our emphasis on · Environmental responsibility
sustainability allows us to expand our business while
Contribution to the UN SDGs
minimising our ecological footprint.
Remediation of the ‘Kesslergrube’, a former landfill site in Grenzach, Germany: Modern and safe remediation methods protect the water
of the nearby Rhine river, which serves as a source of drinking water for approximately 30 million people downstream.
78 79Roche | Safety, health and environment Safety, health and environment | Roche
W
e have made significant progress in increasing the use of
renewable resources.
Our procedures in safety, security, health and at our sites with a frequency proportionate to the
environmental protection are embedded throughout risks, and conduct training programmes for all The solar power plant at Genentech’s Oceanside, US, facility is expected to provide 22% of the site’s total electrical power requirements.
our operations. They are important components of Roche employees. In 2016, a total of 78,487 employees
our sustainability concept and our high standards in participated in 278,583 hours of dedicated training,
this area are built on a solid foundation of prevention. an average of approximately 3.5 hours per employee.
We continually improve site infrastructure, enhance A focus on security Employee health and safety
efficiency and reduce our environmental impact, while Ensuring occupational health and safety Protecting our employees, physical assets, critical
expanding our successful business. We are committed It is essential that all categories of work at Roche are information, and the integrity of our brands and 0.024
0.016 0.019
to improving our track record, and we monitor results safe, whether the tasks are urgent, complex or routine. products are principal concerns of Roche. Preventive 0.014
and progress to ensure compliance with our standards We aim to minimise the number of working days lost measures are a priority in all aspects of security.
and objectives. Our aim is to cover at least 95% of each due to occupational accidents per employee per year 0.068
0.066
0.052 0.064
key performance indicator. (Roche Accident Rate, RAR), and the number of One focus in 2016 was the introduction of the new
accidents causing absence from work (Lost Time Roche Security Incident Reporting tool, which is a
Improving and monitoring our performance Accident Rate, LTAR, per 200,000 worked hours). We global platform for reporting incidents and issues 0.423 0.435 0.450 0.453
As a company with complex production operations are on track to achieve our 2020 safety goals: to keep that have occurred. The application allows affiliates
and affiliates around the world, Roche is exposed to RAR below 0.06 and LTAR below 0.5. Despite our and Group Security to gain a thorough overview of 373 393 400
352
global risks, ranging from dependency on limited preventive measures, in 2016, an employee drowned adverse events and losses that occured during the
Safety, health and fossil fuels as a source of energy and access to clean while taking part in a water sport activity during year, and to focus on measures and training based 6,324 6,396 6,298
environment: water to the worst-case scenario of fatalities. Our a company event. We profoundly regret this tragic on lessons learned. 4,976
roche.com/ mitigation plans help to reduce such risks. We also accident, and again offer our sincere condolences
environment invest in innovative technologies, perform audits to the victim’s family and friends. A second security focus in 2016 was the Eastern 2013 2014 2015 2016
Europe Security Workshop held in Budapest, Hungary. Illness rate Accident rate (RAR)
Site security officers from all Eastern European sites Lost-time accident rate Number of work-related accidents
discussed challenges and good practice on three key Working days lost per year due to accidents
Five-year goals topics for the region: prevention and response to
counterfeiting of our products, information security, Minimising our ecological footprint
risks to our intellectual property and measures to We are aware that much of our business is dependent
protect it, as well as training in adequate security on increasingly scarce natural resources. As part of
–10% –15% –10% –10%
measures for small affiliates. our commitment towards sustainable development,
it is our duty and responsibility to use new and more
sustainable technologies and processes, thereby
Eco-balance* Energy consumption** Water consumption*** General waste*** minimising our impact on the environment.
* 2014–2019 | ** 2015–2025 | *** 2015–2020
80 81Roche | Safety, health and environment Safety, health and environment | Roche
9.7%
Emissions to water
8.1%
Primary energy
70.1%
2.7%
Emissions to air (mainly CO ) Roche
2
eco-balance Landfilled waste
2016 7.6%
1.8%
and reduced air pollution. They have also raised 800 average-sized homes within this community.
Water consumption
awareness about environmental protection, and Over the course of the 20-year lease, the Oceanside
Noise encouraged sustainability. solar facility will save about USD 500,000 each year in
energy costs. There was also a 8.3% decrease in energy
Energy consumption terajoules used in buildings and stationary equipment (gas, fuel
oil, waste, electricity, district heating) across the
2016 2015 2014 2013 Roche Group.
Total (scope 1 and
The less Roche depends upon non-renewable resources, • Joint district heating and cooling (40 °C renewable scope 2) 9,824 10,607 10,297 10,808 Share of sustainable energy
the less vulnerable the company is to supply constraints heat and 15 °C groundwater) instead of steam and Energy
and volatile market prices. We have set up energy- chillers (scope 1 and 2) 90.2% 87.1% 85.0% 83.8%
80.0%
saving action plans across our sites, with innovative • Replacement of compressed air systems consumption
technologies and upgraded infrastructure. In 2016, for • Energy recovery technology (GJ/employee)* 98 105 108 118 20.0%
example, a large solar panel array started operations Scope 3 15.0% 16.2%
12.9%
at our facility in Oceanside covering up to 22% of the In terms of energy, this represents a reduction of heat Business flights 2,953 2,876 2,672 2,661 9.8%
site’s electrical power. Similarly, we have installed consumption from 30,300 GJ from steam to 3,200 GJ
* Data collected by Group SHE. (GJ = gigajoule)
additional solar panel arrays at our site in Kaiseraugst, from 40 °C renewable heat, a 65% reduction of
2013 2014 2015 2016 2020 Goal
located close to Basel. compressed air, and a reduction in CO emissions
2
of 2,100 tonnes. Replacing fossil fuels with renewable energy Non-sustainable Sustainable
We are reducing our carbon footprint by purchasing A large proportion of the energy used in our operations
energy-efficient equipment, including hybrid cars, and We measure our impact on the environment by using currently comes from fossil fuel sources such as oil and Natural capital
increasing sustainable energy supplies, as well as by the eco-balance metric, developed by the Swiss Federal gas. We are working on maximising efficient energy In 2016, we completed a pilot test of the new Natural
monitoring employee travel needs and work processes. Office for the Environment. By 2019, we want to usage and increasing the use of sustainable energy whilst Capital Protocol, an internationally agreed framework
Since 2010, 1,298 projects have been completed, improve our eco-balance by 10%, compared to 2014. continuing to expand our global business. Longer that sets out how businesses can measure the monetary
resulting in an avoidance of 152,390 tonnes of CO Our improvements in decreasing energy consumption, term, our goal is to reduce energy consumption per value of their environmental impacts and dependencies
2
emissions in 2016, leading up to an estimated cost air emissions, and the volume of consumed water, employee by approximately 50%, compared to 2005 to both society and themselves. The Natural Capital
saving of CHF 31.9 million per year. as well as in reducing the weight of both general and baseline levels. In 2016, our energy consumption Assessment (NCA) undertaken included a high level
chemical waste, led to a further improvement of decreased by 5.2%, while sales grew 4%. assessment of Roche’s overall value chain. This proved
In 2011, Roche’s Basel site developed Energy Vision 9.2% in 2016. We achieved these results despite the useful in highlighting a complex and broad spread
2020. This initiative supports our corporate goals continued growth of our business. Our mid-term goal is to reduce consumed energy of natural capital dependencies and impacts. The
by reducing energy consumption and increasing the from Scope 1 and Scope 2 sources per employee by study also involved a more detailed assessment of
use of renewable energy and innovative technical Internal ideas trigger significant improvements 15% within our own facilities by 2025. We also plan to Roche’s operational sites in Switzerland. The outcome
solutions. This has meant huge monetary savings for We encourage and welcome all suggestions from increase the proportion of sustainable energy to 20% demonstrated that, from a natural capital perspective,
Roche and is equally beneficial to the environment. employees for improving our sustainability culture by 2020, both compared to 2015 levels. Our Genentech our Swiss sites are well managed, and that the most
A good example of Energy Vision 2020 in action and performance. In 2016, we held the seventh facility in Oceanside helped to make substantial significant societal impacts are greenhouse gas
was the renovation of the staff restaurant at the edition of the ECOmpetition, resulting in 172 ideas progress toward this goal in 2016 by completing a emissions. Roche is already carefully managing this
Basel headquarters. This led to savings in 2016 of submitted and 19 winners. In the past, ECOmpetition solar panel array project. It consists of more than material issue. We also assessed how the results from
approximately CHF 1,020,000 via: submissions helped us improve in many different 17,000 panels and provides 22% of the site’s total the Protocol study compared to our existing Eco-
• Insulation and optimisation of the building areas, including energy conservation, waste reduction, electrical power requirements. With its capacity of balance methodology. The societal impact-monetary-
decreased consumption of water and raw materials, 3.8 megawatts, this solar plant could power almost valuation-results were found to be highly comparable
82 83Roche | Safety, health and environment Safety, health and environment | Roche
CO -equivalent emissions metric tonnes 2016. In a landmark deal, nearly 200 countries agreed either working on or implementing programmes to
2
to phase out hydrofluorocarbons, which are powerful increase efficiency in water usage. Our Genentech
2016 2015 2014 2013 GHGs; this is seen as a significant step in curbing South San Francisco, US, site is employing innovative
Scope 1 global warming. approaches to reduce water withdrawal and improve
Fuel combustion 319,538 379,457 356,348 396,588 wastewater management. Since 2016, this site has been
Halogenated hydrocarbons 6,463 4,964 6,234 6,548 In recognition of our programme to reduce emissions reusing approximately 85% of the reverse osmosis reject
Scope 2 of GHGs and mitigate climate change, we were water in their cooling towers. The cooling towers use
Pre-2015 376,159 418,214 identified as a global leader for our actions and the equivalent of approximately 75,700 m3 of water per
Market-based 320,860 322,046 * – – strategies and awarded a position on The Global year, of which approximately 64,400 m3 per year comes
Location-based 403,924 408,078* – – Climate ‘A’ List developed by CDP (former Carbon from the reject water. Since its implementation in 2013,
Total (Scope 1 and Market-based) 646,861 706,467 * 738,741 821,350 Disclosure Project) in 2016. this environmental initiative has led to incremental
Scope 3 savings, amounting to USD 224,000 in 2016.
Business flights 209,660 204,179 189,714 188,924 Halogenated hydrocarbons tonnes***
Energy-intensive utilities** 15,170 20,064 – – Water usage and discharge
Waste 63,560 – – – 2016 2015 2014 2013
Inventory 134.3 154.6 167.3 176.4 2016 2015 2014 2013
* Due to changes in reporting methodology, this number is different to that reported in 2015. | ** Compressed air and liquid nitrogen.
Consumed 2.7 1.8 2.6 3.7 Water withdrawn
(million cubic metres) 18.2 18.9 18.4 19.7
*** Global inventory including Chugai, Genentech and Ventana.
Water consumed
to our Eco-balance scores, thus effectively validating improving energy efficiency is also relevant—a 15% (million cubic metres) 3.1 3.5 3.0 3.5
both approaches. The study concluded that NCAs reduction in GHGs per employee over a ten-year Environmentally sustainable products Wastewater discharged
could provide Roche with valuable insights to enhance period from 2015 to 2025. Our absolute Scope 1 and We consider the entire lifecycle of our products in to treatment plant
decision-making and better manage risks and Scope 2 GHG emissions were cut by 8.4% in 2016. This terms of their environmental impact. Our aims are (million cubic metres) 5.7 7.8 5.8 5.4
opportunities in many other contexts. This includes, reduction was achieved by implementing energy-saving to safeguard the ecosystem and protect our business Organic matter
for example, in relation to water management in water measures and reducing the amount of fuel we use to against long-term financial and reputational risks. discharged to waterways
scarce regions. heat, cool and operate our sites. A key contributor to MabThera/Rituxan, Avastin, Herceptin, Perjeta and after treatment (tonnes) 149 190 141 144
this success was our site at Oceanside, which switched Lucentis, some of our monoclonal antibodies, together Heavy metals discharged
Increased energy efficiency to reduce CO to solar power. generated more than CHF 24 billion sales in 2016. to waterways after
2
As our business continues to grow, we are committed They have a low excretion rate and are judged by treatment (kilogrammes) 164 160 236 178
to maintaining the low level of emissions to the air Halogens, halogenated refrigerants and fire the respective authorities to present no significant
achieved so far, and to making further improvements suppressants, are GHGs that can remain in the risk to sewage works and surface waters. They are Feasibility studies are also ongoing on a method for
at our manufacturing sites. Our emissions to air from atmosphere for a long period of time. We have therefore termed ‘benign in nature’ and constitute treating manufacturing and processing equipment
nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and particulates therefore committed to a 20% reduction in our use environmentally sustainable compounds. whereby surfaces become super-hydrophobic. This
decreased by 3.9%, 49.1% and 20.0%, respectively. of these halogens over the next five years. This is in creates a ‘self-cleaning’ effect such that protein and
Emissions from volatile organic compounds increased addtion to the 90% reduction we achieved by 2015 for Managing limited water resources
by 7.1%. Emissions to air from our sites are at very low legacy Roche sites. We continue to examine all available Our water usage has remained relatively unchanged
Being recognised as a leader for corporate
levels, which means that new processes or activities, alternatives, and we work with refrigeration and fire over several years and our procedures ensure efficient
as well as the timing of sampling, can result in large suppression suppliers to achieve these reductions. water use whilst allowing business continuity. Our
action on climate change is a result of our
but temporary fluctuations. As the majority of our The importance of our approach is paralleled by the goal is to reduce water consumption per employee by
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions originate from agreement taken at the United Nations Environment 10% by 2020, weighted according to the water stress
commitment to protect natural resources.
the transformation and use of energy, our goal for Programme meeting in Kigali, Rwanda, in October for a respective region. To this end, all Roche sites are
84 85Roche | Safety, health and environment Safety, health and environment | Roche
Sustainability, the protection of people
cellular debris remain in solution and do not adhere activities at Kesslergrube in Grenzach, Germany, as We are determined to create long-term social
to the metal surfaces. This modification targets a well as environment-related activities at our Genentech value for the community. In 2016, we continued
and the environment are top priorities
10% reduction in the 760 m3 of water used for cleaning site in South San Francisco. These one-off activities our remediation programme at our previously used
per day, simultaneously reducing the USD two million contributed 72.8% of the 76,842 tonnes generated. landfill sites. At our former site in Nutley, US, an
at Roche.
spent on cleaning each year. Furthermore, the self- In terms of our regular production, we are reducing agreement was reached with Hackensack University
cleaning surface would reduce the need for phosphates further the already low volumes of chemical waste. Health Network and Seton Hall University to create
used in the cleaning process, thereby decreasing the In 2016, general waste (incinerated and landfilled) a medical school on part of the former site. Roche
environmental impact from the discharge into nearby decreased by 53%. will retain responsibility for environmental clean-up was completed in 2016, and the excavation had
bodies of water. We also support global efforts on beyond this divestment. started by the end of the year. Thanks to careful Kesslergrube:
water protection. We aim to reduce total wastewater Activities in optimising packaging within the supply planning, Roche is ensuring the safe and efficient kesslergrube.de/
toxicity in selected production plants by 10% by 2020 chain are under way on both sides of the Atlantic. The setting up of infrastructure necessary for the execution of a complex programme to reduce perimeter1
versus the 2015 level. Approximately half of the water In 2016, Roche’s Kaiseraugst site optimised their remediation of the former Kesslergrube landfill site emissions to a minimum.
we draw is used in cooling circuits. Although this procedures for delivering small quantities of material
water is not chemically contaminated, we analyse at 2–8 °C temperature by changing to shipping boxes
it before directly discharging it. Furthermore, we that allow for efficient and agile shipping. As well as
only discharge wastewater and pollutants if they being able to cope with smaller quantities, this small
comply fully with relevant regulations, including change aids business continuity by mitigating the risk
pre-treatment requirements. of transportation capacity restrictions. In addition, From left: Dr Richard Hürzeler, Roche, Boris Krause, Friends of the Earth Germany, Dr Tobias Benz, Mayor Grenzach-Wyhlen and Samer Hijazi, Bauer Umwelt GmbH
the initiative reduces freight costs, uses less packaging discussing the progress of remediation activities at Kesslergrube in Germany.
Minimising waste and maximising recycling material, and reduces material waste and CO emissions.
2
We aim to implement the following waste management In 2016, this small change resulted in approximate
strategy in all our activities: avoid, reduce, reuse, savings of CHF 140,000. Genentech in South San
recycle and thermally destroy. We permit landfilling Francisco has proposed a process for making the
only as a last resort and, even then, only for inert* packaging supply chain far less complex by cutting
materials such as slag or ashes. Depending on the and consolidating the number of shipping boxes,
availability of suitable local waste-treatment plants, saving over USD 3 million as well as cutting CO
2
we may sometimes dispose of non-hazardous general emissions due to reduced shipments.
waste in authorised landfills. Our objective is to avoid
disposal of chemical waste or other hazardous materials Waste tonnes
in landfill sites. We accept responsibility for all waste
generated at our operations, including waste previously 2016 2015 2014 2013
deposited at our sites or landfills. Using 2015 as a General waste
baseline, we aim to reduce general waste per employee generated 12,498 26,314 16,730 13,445
by 10% and landfilling of organic chemicals by 50%, Chemical waste
by 2020. Chemical waste (incinerated and land filled) generated 76,842 25,742 27,142 30,843
increased by 199%. This was largely due to remediation Construction waste 12,804 8,223 15,064 8,618
* Substances that are not chemically reactive.
86 87Roche | Safety, health and environment Safety, health and environment | Roche
Ali Afghan,
Genentech
“Joining the company that
helped save my life”
I left Iran in 1978 to follow three brothers who had After recovering from leukaemia, I wanted to give
already emigrated to the US. My courageous mother something back. My disease and tragic events in my
raised four boys as a single parent and insisted that family in the preceding years transformed me. I began
we all get a higher education—but there were limited to ask myself what really mattered and what I should
academic opportunities in Iran. do with my time.
Having earned Bachelor’s Degrees in General Science A new chapter
and Mechanical Engineering from Portland State After retiring from Intel in 2014, I decided to use
University, I pursued a career in engineering, including my skills and experience to help others. Then came
17 years at Intel. In 1984, I got married, and we had an opportunity to join the company that helped
two beautiful daughters. save my life.
Life-changing news In 2015, I became the progamme director at Genentech
In 2009, I went for a routine medical check-up, and my on a huge project to upgrade the facilities in South San
doctor detected an elevated white blood cell count. He Francisco with more environmentally-friendly cooling
referred me to a specialist, who gave me the shattering systems. I am now making a contribution for a better
diagnosis: chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) at planet for my daughters and their children.
stage 2 to 3. It was like hitting a wall at 100 miles an
hour. My world just stopped. In parallel, I was asked to speak to groups of employees
about my experience as a leukaemia patient. It wasn’t
I remember vividly how the doctor showed me a bell easy at first to open up about my private life to so
curve with an average survival rate of four to eight years many people. However, I have now spoken to many
for older men with CLL. I was in my late 40s, and there groups and each time I can hear in people’s comments
wasn’t much reliable data about my survival chances. how my experience as a cancer patient touches and
inspires them. They say it makes a difference in their
I had to pull myself together. I couldn’t let my family daily work on the next generation of life-saving
and friends down. In 2011, I started chemotherapy medicines. It came about unexpectedly, but it has
combined with Rituxan/MabThera, a Roche monoclonal become clear to me that my story as a patient is
antibody that targets specific lymphocytes. After six another way of giving back to the people who have Video:
months of treatment, doctors gave me the exhilarating helped me so much. roche.com/ar16pat
news that my body was free of cancer. I had a new
lease on life.
88 89Roche | Community engagement Community engagement | Roche
Community
e ngage me nt
Material topic covered in this chapter
In collaboration with international and local partners, we
· Community engagement
support programmes that result in lasting improvements
and sustainable benefits for the communities in which we Contribution to the UN SDGs
operate, and for society in general.
Schoolchildren performing chemical and biological experiments at the Experio Roche school laboratory in Kaiseraugst, Switzerland.
90 91Roche | Community engagement Community engagement | Roche
F
or over a century, our philanthropic engagement has been
focused on building stronger, healthier communities where we
operate. We believe this is our role as a good corporate citizen.
We support social causes, science and education Providing long-term disaster relief
programmes, as well as arts and cultural projects. Our For communities that have experienced a major Roche started a partnership with the Maharishi Institute in Johannesburg, South Africa, to cover the university-education costs of 50 students.
aim is to make a lasting impact on people’s lives. natural disaster, especially in the developing world,
we support projects that result in lasting, sustainable
We focus on addressing needs in communities where benefits. After the initial emergency phase, we partner
Roche operates, which is why many of our philanthropic with local authorities and relief organisations to help In the Philippines, we completed our support of in the developing world as well as in developed
activities are selected and managed locally. At Roche affected communities rebuild and prepare for the a project with the Open Arms Foundation, which countries. In all cases, we respect the independence
affiliates around the world, we work with partners future. Our contributions range from product provided cost-effective solar light sources to people and autonomy of our partners in the areas of research
who share our commitment to long-term solutions donations and logistical support to transfer of in rural and slum areas who continue to be affected and education.
and our objective of strengthening communities knowledge and expertise. by the aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan in 2013.
sustainably. We expect our partners to share the risk, In developing areas, we fund education programmes
commitment and investment of resources in the One example of our humanitarian engagement In Haiti, after the devastating earthquake in 2010 we that support talented students from disadvantaged
implementation of a project. is in Nepal, which experienced earthquakes that supported the construction of two disaster-resistant backgrounds. In 2016, we started a partnership with
affected eight million people and destroyed more than schools in partnership with the Swiss Agency for the Maharishi Institute in South Africa to cover the
At the corporate level, we supplement local activities 600,000 homes in 2015. Our local management centre Development and Cooperation. Both schools, which university-education costs of 50 students. Additionally,
when needed, support areas where Roche may not responded by donating 180,000 vials of antibiotics in a opened in 2012, sustained Hurricane Matthew in Roche South Africa supports a health education and
yet operate, and manage long-term international phased approach. Since then, we have partnered with October 2016 and were unaffected. wellness programme for students, career development
programmes, such as: the World Wildlife Fund, the Nepalese government and personal finance workshops, and has employed
• the Transnet-Phelophepa healthcare train, a mobile and local organisations to support the rebuilding of In Pakistan, we have partnered with The Citizens graduates on their ‘learnership’ programme.
clinic bringing medical care and medicines to communities and ecosystems in Langtang National Foundation over the last six years to establish and
375,000 people per year in remote areas of South Park. We are also working on a two-year ‘Build Nepal extend a primary school in rural Jacobabad, which was
In Nepal, we partner with Habitat for
Africa since 1994; Project’ with Habitat for Humanity International. built following extensive flooding in the area in 2010.
• the Roche Children’s Walk, a worldwide fund-raising Together, we are supporting the rebuilding of the
Humanity International, the World
employee project initiated in 2003 to support Salme municipality in the Nuwakot district, which Investing in education
children’s initiatives in Malawi and in more than saw 88% of houses destroyed in the earthquakes. The We believe in the long-term impact that education
Wildlife Fund and local authorities to
90 communities around the world; project will help to cover the most urgent needs of can have on improving the lives of children, their
• Roche Continents, a partnership with the Salzburg 500 families and provide access to safer, disaster- families and the communities in which they belong.
help rebuild communities and ecosystems
Festival launched in 2007, which encourages resistant housing solutions. In partnership with local institutions, we support
university-level students to explore the common education programmes designed to inspire children
after the two earthquakes in 2015.
ground of innovation in arts and science. and youth from primary grades through university,
92 93Roche | Community engagement Community engagement | Roche
Since its opening in 2015, the Experio
In Latin America, we support Fundación Educación leading local academic organisations, including Fostering interest in research
in Peru, Colombia, El Salvador and Guatemala and its Hong Kong Education City as well as the Hong The Experio Roche school laboratory opened in
Roche school laboratory has received
goal to develop a middle class; Roche provides four- Kong University of Science and Technology School February 2015 in Kaiseraugst, Switzerland, under the
year scholarships for 25 students studying engineering of Science. This joint Roche Pharmaceuticals and auspices of the Human Resources Apprenticeship
over 4,000 visitors.
or economics at leading colleges/universities. In India, Roche Diagnostics initiative is a science competition department. This state-of-the-art laboratory has
we support college/university scholarships for nine and mentorship programme which aims to encourage been designed to enable pupils in the region, from
students of the Kiran Children’s Village, a home and secondary school students to use their science acumen primary school to college, to experience the practical
school for children—some of whom have disabilities— and innovative thinking to solve daily health issues. application of Science, Technology, Engineering falls into water, or when using a corrective pen.
who come from very poor families. RYSA also aims to shine a spotlight on the importance and Mathematics (STEM) subjects for themselves. Workshops always start in a playful way, but can also Experio Roche:
of innovation and science education, and uncover The high standard of equipment and professional give deep insights into drug synthesis, polymerase experio-roche.ch
As a research-based healthcare company, science the young science talent of Hong Kong. Since its supervision makes Experio Roche unique in chain reaction (PCR) and gel electrophoresis, to
and technology are at the core of what we do. That is inception, over 500 students from more Switzerland. It allows schoolchildren to try out a host show how the basic techniques are applied in research Supporting
why, for many years now, we have supported multiple than 100 schools have participated. of different experiments under the supervision of labs or production lines throughout the company. communities:
programmes to promote an interest in these disciplines specialists. Activities include programming robots, Since its opening, Experio Roche has received over roche.com/
among young people. By building a foundation for Futurelab is a Genentech science education soldering electronic circuits, and understanding 4,000 visitors, and expects to reach the mark of philanthropy
science and technology, providing real-world science programme developed in partnership with the the chemical process involved when a drop of ink 5,000 visitors this year.
skills, and enabling continued education and careers South San Francisco Unified School District to
in biotech, we hope to help grow the next generation support science education at every grade level,
of innovators. from elementary school to high school—impacting A student participating in the ‘Helix Cup’ annual science competition—an integral part of Genentech’s Futurelab programme.
9,300 students in South San Francisco. Futurelab
The Roche Young Scientist Award in Hong Kong, supports teachers with professional development,
Futurelab in the US, and Experio Roche in Switzerland students with field trips and access to scholarships,
are some leading examples of our efforts to support and classrooms with equipment and supplies
young scientists across the globe. teachers need for their curriculum. It also gives
employees the chance to get involved through
The biannual Roche Young Scientist Award (RYSA) volunteering and mentoring. In 2016 alone, more
was launched in 2012 in partnership with some of the than 1,300 Genentech employees volunteered over
25,000 hours through programmes that offer
exciting science experiences for local students.
About 9,300 students in 15 South San
Futurelab also includes the creation of Science
Garage, a state-of- the-art biotech facility for local
Francisco schools are benefiting from
high-school students to take hands-on biotech
classes, which broke ground in September 2016.
Genentech’s Futurelab science education
We project that over 1,000 high-school students
will participate in the biotech curriculum once
programme.
the building is completed in 2017.
94 95Roche | Community engagement Community engagement | Roche
Sara Shayesteh,
South San Francisco
Unified School District
“Futurelab means the
world to me as a teacher.”
I have always loved math and science, so my Hands-on science as eye opener
educational and career path seemed clear. I graduated Futurelab is driven by the enthusiasm and energy of
from San Francisco State University with a degree in over 1,300 Genentech employees who care about their
biology, chemistry and business and then worked in a local community. They volunteer as afterschool tutors
research lab with a local biotech company. The work in math and science, serve as chaperones on science
was interesting, but I felt something was missing. field trips, and assist in the classroom in hands-on
competitions that inspire students to apply scientific
I had financed my college studies partly by tutoring principles to the real world.
high school students in math and science. I enjoyed
connecting with them and seeing that flash of Thanks to the support of Genentech, Futurelab
excitement in their eyes when they understood difficult also includes two full college scholarships and the
concepts. When I started part-time tutoring again, construction of a high-school biotechnology centre,
I decided—after some soul-searching—to pursue a called Science Garage, to open in 2017. I am excited to
master’s degree in education at Stanford University. be part of this project and to have the opportunity to
roll out a new biotech curriculum in Science Garage.
In 2010, I started working as a science teacher at
El Camino High School in the South San Francisco Making a difference, one student at a time
Unified School District, where 40% of the 9,300 students One student’s story is a great example of Futurelab’s
are from families living in poverty and 65% of impact. He and his family were recent immigrants to
elementary students are English-language learners. the US. While he was bright and extremely interested
in science—he wasn’t excelling in his science classes.
Young people are natural scientists because they are He attended several hands-on science field trips at
curious about the world around them. But the way Genentech, where he had the opportunity to see
science is being taught in classrooms today doesn't science come to life in everyday work. These were
always successfully reach or engage students learning transformative events for him. When I last bumped
English for the first time. I knew more could be done. into him, he shared that he’s determined to attend
When Genentech invited me to join a brainstorming college to study computer science. In fact, he
session focused on improving science education in is enrolled in our biotech class now.
South San Francisco, I was really hopeful for the
possibilities. From that discussion emerged the I feel very lucky to be a part of Futurelab and witness
Futurelab programme. its positive impact on students. It means the world to
me as a teacher.
96 97Roche | Integrity in business Integrity in business | Roche
Integ r ity
Material topics covered in this chapter
· Drug efficacy, safety and counterfeiting
· Data transparency on clinical trials
in bu sine s s
· Compliance
· Disease awareness and treatment education
· Patient organisation support
· Supply chain management
· Biosimilar safety
At Roche, we believe that doing the right thing means
good business. That’s why we set high standards for ethical Contribution to the UN SDGs
behaviour and live by them every day.
A critical part of our supply chain in Portugal: Pharmaceutical warehousing at our partner Rangel.
98 99Roche | Integrity in business Integrity in business | Roche
W
e know that integrity is the foundation of our business.
It is our ‘license to operate’ and key to our ability to make
a lasting impact on public health.
Compliance starts with leading by example. Our These global compliance efforts are supported by a
senior executives act as role models and continually dedicated organisation led by our Chief Compliance We invite our suppliers to work jointly with us on improving supply chain sustainability.
reinforce the importance of compliance at all levels of Officer. At our affiliates, networks of compliance
the company. Involving middle management is vital functions assisted by global functions and local line
for a strong compliance culture. In 2016, we further management ensure that the necessary compliance
developed our middle management’s capabilities as infrastructure is in place, training standards are In 2016, we transformed more of our supplier We also call on our employees to suggest improvements
compliance leaders to ensure that our high ethical being met, and that there is a high level of awareness sustainability audits into assurance visits, creating and innovations in our internal processes and services. Supplier Code
standards are firmly embedded in daily working life. about compliance. mutual benefit and improving our relationships We created platforms where employees can submit of Conduct:
We believe that every employee at Roche has a with our suppliers and service providers. We made their ideas, which can eventually lead to savings for roche.com/
responsibility to act with integrity, and we take a Our goal is to create an atmosphere of mutual trust 133 supplier sustainability assurance visits worldwide, the company. Such platforms exist in Mannheim and supplier_code_of_
systematic and sustained approach to anchor in which issues can be discussed openly. Employees 43 in the direct spend area (goods used directly in Penzberg in Germany as well as in Rotkreuz and Basel conduct
compliance in our culture. with a compliance concern are encouraged to speak production) and 90 at service providers. in Switzerland. Across these sites, annual net savings
up by using different channels. We do not tolerate were in the six-to seven-digit range and around 20% PSCI:
Fostering a global compliance culture any retaliation against an employee who raises such a We collaborate on supplier audits with other of ideas were implemented in 2016. In Rotkreuz, one pscinitiative.org
Our Code of Conduct guides Roche employees on concern in good faith. All allegations are investigated. pharmaceutical companies under the umbrella of the idea led to an optimised release procedure for reagents
acting with integrity at all times. Employees complete If they are substantiated, corrective measures and Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI), using and annual savings of CHF 10,000. In Mannheim,
mandatory training to ensure they understand the code, sanctions are carried out. a unified joint audit protocol. Focusing on Latin production of a coagulation test was streamlined and
including how to voice their compliance concerns over America, we engaged with 50 suppliers to reduce our led to annual savings of EUR 650,000.
business practices or behaviour (eg, conflict of interest, We make sure that our suppliers and service providers environmental footprint by an average of 10%. We
bribery and improper advantages, discrimination are subject to the same standards as our employees. also conducted joint risk assessments with sole source
and harassment). Above all, the code expresses the Our Supplier Code of Conduct is included in contracts, suppliers and mitigated the identified risks, thereby
expectations that Roche has towards its employees in and we offer an e-learning programme to help our making the supply more resilient. In the US, a service Compliance
terms of patient safety, product quality and open and suppliers and service providers understand both our provider relocated its office to be closer to our facilities
Roche Group Code constructive dialogue with all our stakeholders. Our expectations and industry standards. and hence provide us with better service. In 2016, 120 employees used the Roche Group SpeakUp Line,
of Conduct: Code of Conduct is applicable even when it is stricter which is available in 53 languages in 102 countries. The Chief
roche.com/code_ than local standards because we strongly believe in a Compliance Officer received 638 reports relating to alleged
of_conduct consistent Roche approach across the globe. violations of the Code of Conduct via the Business Ethics Incident
Reporting system. Out of these, 203 were unfounded, 156 are
still under investigation, and 279 were substantiated. As a result,
123 employment contracts and 10 agreements with business
partners were terminated on the grounds of unethical behaviour.
100 101Roche | Integrity in business Integrity in business | Roche
Patient safety comes first
arising in any country. Serialisation allows any component of patient management. IVDs are
regulatory authority, distributor, pharmacy or rigorously validated both analytically and clinically. In
Continuously improving our high standards physician to trace and verify, at any time, that the the US, laboratory-developed tests (LDTs or in-house
product has only been handled within the Roche tests) have so far not been subject to the same regulatory
supply chain and that the serial number is genuine. oversight as commercialised devices and tests.
We continue to work with health authorities around In light of concerns around safety and efficacy voiced
Patients, the general public and many other stakeholders of Harmonisation (ICH) guidelines. Our quality the world to share our approaches and insights into in the US about the use of LDTs in routine clinical
place their invaluable trust in our company. They management system is inspected by all relevant health guaranteeing safety and traceability in the interests of decision-making, Roche has become actively engaged
have a right to expect Roche medicines and diagnostic authorities worldwide as well as by internal quality patients and all our stakeholders. For example, we have in the public debate about the assessment of such
products to be safe, reliable, of the highest quality and compliance audits on a regular basis, ensuring invited and hosted numerous meetings with delegations LDTs under the new regulatory framework.
and available. compliance with good manufacturing practice. In from health authorities whom we educated and trained
2016, 73 inspections were conducted by regulatory in product security. During these meetings, we have Sharing best practice in animal testing
We can only meet these expectations with enforcing authorities worldwide. demonstrated our commitment towards patient safety Before clinical trials for new medications can be
standards of operational performance. These include and how serialisation and traceability techniques can conducted in humans, regulatory bodies worldwide
the constant review and ongoing improvement of Our pharmaceutical production facility in Shanghai, be beneficial to the wider health community. require efficacy and safety data based on animal
our quality standards, the precision and clarity of China, illustrates our dedication to quality. Between testing. Where regulations allow and where it is
our packaging and product information, and the 2015 and 2016, the site successfully passed regulatory Aligning biosimilar guidelines with global standards scientifically possible and ethical, Roche employs
monitoring of each link of our international supply audits by health authorities around the world. The In 2010, the World Health Organisation (WHO) medical testing procedures that do not require
chain. In addition, we continue to strengthen our Shanghai site not only helps to meet the growing published guidelines defining the evidence required animals. In Switzerland, we support the 3R Research
business continuity management to ensure that our pharmaceutical needs of China, it is also a production for one biotherapeutic product to be considered Foundation, which provides funds for research
sites and affiliates have strategies and tactics in place to hub for many other parts of the world. biosimilar to another. The recommendations outlined projects promoting the 3Rs (Replace animal tests
deliver a minimum level of vital products and services. in the WHO guidelines have been built into national where possible, Reduce the number of animals in
Enhancing safety and quality through serialisation biosimilar regulatory processes in many, but not studies, Refine existing practices). Roche is actively
Ensuring patient safety means that we collaborate Patients must have complete confidence that Roche all, countries around the world. In order to ensure engaged in the discussion on the future of the
continuously with regulatory agencies, carefully check medicines are authentic, high-quality products. patient safety, Roche believes local regulatory foundation. Under the lead of the Federal Food Safety
reports of adverse events experienced by patients, Although the problem of counterfeit and adulterated pathways relating to biosimilars should align with and Veterinary Office, consideration is being given to
and communicate transparently and regularly on our drugs has existed for decades, the risks have increased global standards set by the WHO. Roche respects the establishing a national 3R Competence Centre.
product quality. Roche’s Safety Risk Management dramatically in recent years through internet sales legitimate undertakings of its competitors, including
Department systematically monitors all Roche drugs and other difficult-to-control sources. generic and biosimilar manufacturers, but expects We play a leading role in sharing best practices on
worldwide—before and after they are launched. Adverse them to comply with applicable laws, regulations animal testing. In China, for example, key opinion
events are recorded in a global database, and reviewed Roche has implemented initiatives that improve upon and industry codes, and protects its products and leaders and representatives from contract research
and reported promptly to the appropriate regulatory existing regulatory requirements and help to create interests against unfair competition. organisations were invited in 2016 to the Roche
authorities. We require all employees to report any drug new standards in product safety, security and quality. Innovation Center in Shanghai to discuss state-of-
safety or quality issue immediately, and to complete One way we have enhanced the safety and quality of Rigorously validating diagnostic tests the-art practices. Participants signed a China Animal Animal studies:
annual awareness training on adverse event reporting. our medicines is through serialisation: We understand As the world’s leader in in vitro diagnostics (IVD), Welfare & Non-clinical Quality Charter that goes roche.com/animal_
that labelling every single package with a unique serial Roche develops diagnostic tests that are a critical beyond current local regulatory requirements. welfare
Our medicines must meet the highest quality standards number will be the standard by 2020. We started to
at all times. Roche’s pharmaceutical quality systems roll this safety feature out to numerous countries and
and processes comply with International Conference are supportive of any new serialisation regulation
102 103Roche | Integrity in business Integrity in business | Roche
A matter of engagement
We engage with government officials and industry the benefit of data-sharing come to life when we were
bodies to contribute to the public debate and to working on a clinical development plan for an antibiotic
Earning our stakeholders’ trust the development of effective public health laws, and needed specific data to advance development.
regulations and policies. Under the data transparency policy adopted by the
European Medicines Agency, Roche received the data
Enhancing access to healthcare within six weeks rather than the years it would have
The European Patients’ Forum (EPF), a highly taken without data transparency.
It is essential to earn the trust of our stakeholders Contributions to patient organisations regarded voice, urged politicians to reinforce EU-wide
and build understanding of their concerns. By truly Total amount CHF 28 million collaboration on access to new medicines. Roche is We strive to make our clinical study information
embedding this into our daily business, we are able making a significant contribution to new access and available to patients, physicians and researchers,
to jointly develop solutions. Our annual Sustainability 2016 reimbursement models in the EU. We support the subject to the protection of patient privacy and
Forum brings together internal stakeholders and Financial contributions to patient organisations 95% shift from a traditional approach of pricing a medicine commercial confidentiality. We collaborate with a
external experts to discuss innovations and Non-financial contributions to patient organisations 4% by pack or by vial to multiple-indication pricing and range of organisations such as The Wellcome Trust
enhancements in our commitments and engagements. Service contracts with patient organisations 1% outcome-based approaches. We also advocate the and TransCelerate that are involved in advancing
We have developed key performance indicators (KPIs) development of data infrastructure to implement opportunities for data-sharing.
for measuring and monitoring progress in many areas We are dedicated to engaging in transparent dialogue this approach.
that are relevant for our stakeholders. with healthcare professionals. The nature of our In 2016, we introduced an updated version of the Roche
collaboration includes support to attend important In the US, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid policy on sharing clinical information. The document
We foster transparency about our relationships with congresses and conferences in their fields. We comply Services (CMS), a federal agency, is charged with reflects changes in the regulatory environment and
patient organisations and healthcare professionals. with disclosure requirements (for example, the US implementing innovative payment and delivery encourages greater understanding of our approach
Patient organisations are key partners for us. They Sunshine Act and the EFPIA Disclosure Code). By models across the healthcare system to decrease cost and our belief in the value of data-sharing. It provides
provide a forum for patients and caregivers to share adapting our disclosure guidelines, we have improved and enhance the quality of care. CMS is currently an overview of our guiding principles, as well as
their stories and experiences and also help to shape internal and external transparency. testing over 75 models, including Accountable Care details regarding the information available and the
the current and future healthcare environment by Organisations, Bundled Payments, the Oncology Care channels we use.
making their collective voices heard. They help us Contributions to healthcare organisations Model, and the Medicare Part B Drug Payment Model.
understand the human experience and personal Total amount CHF 125 million These models aim to transition from traditional Engaging with political institutions
challenges of a disease, providing us with invaluable fee-for-service to value-based payments. Roche and We remain independent of any political affiliation;
Non-financial insights to improve our product development and 2016 Genentech have been in active discussions with US however, we support a number of associations and
reporting: clinical trial programmes. Research 22% commercial and public payers about the role that political institutions. In Switzerland, we spent
roche.com/non- Education of healthcare professionals 47% certain innovative payment models can play in CHF 9.1 million in 2016, which includes payments
financial-reporting Our support of a patient organisation is always based Education of patients/general public 8% healthcare reform. to industry associations and various chambers of
on a written agreement, which states the purpose, the Support for healthcare infrastructure 19% commerce, financial assistance to trade unions, and
Working with amount of any financial support and any significant Support for Personalised Healthcare and Sharing data to advance scientific progress donations to political parties at the cantonal and
patient groups: indirect or non-financial benefits. In accordance patient screening 4% We share clinical information because we understand federal level. Donations to political parties are each
roche.com/ with industry guidelines, we make the details of our it helps physicians, patients and healthcare providers in the low-double-digit thousand range in Swiss francs
patientorganisations relationships with patient organisations public. to make informed treatment decisions and enable and together accounted for less than 3% of total
researchers to advance scientific progress. We saw contributions and donations.
104 105Roche | Integrity in business Integrity in business | Roche
Eduardo Rangel,
Rangel Logistics Solutions
“A special task based on
a shared commitment”
I learned the value of hard work early in life. At the We shook hands and started an intensive period of
age of 16, I was already a trainee in a customs office in collaboration. At Rangel, we invested heavily in new
Porto, while studying administration and accounting warehousing with cold chambers and transportation
at night. Within three years, I was named head of the boxes that remain at constant 2–8 degrees Celsius.
export department. Roche quality experts came to our site in Lisbon to
train our people. I knew our teamwork was based on a
In 1980, aged 27, I took the bold decision to start my shared commitment to get life-saving products to the
own freight-forwarding company, together with two hospitals, pharmacies and patients who need them.
colleagues. It was tough to find investors and customers.
We convinced people with our willingness to put in In January 2009, we went live. Soon afterwards,
long hours and our determination to succeed. In 1985, we introduced ‘track and trace’ from our website, so
our engineers and I created an IT programme to Roche could follow the shipments and even monitor
process customs declarations electronically—we were real-time temperatures in our delivery trucks—
the first company in Portugal to offer this software. something that had never been done before.
The biggest challenge came in 1992 with the Looking back, I am proud to say that we have kept
creation of the European Union. The phasing out of our promise. During all of 2016, we did not miss
customs duties within Europe eliminated 50% of our a single delivery or failed once in the cold chain—
business. We had to reinvent ourselves by expanding a 100% fulfilment rate.
internationally and opening up new markets.
Today, Rangel is a successful international Group
A partnership based on trust with 1,450 employees. What we have learned from our
In October 2007, I met Adriano Treve, the General collaboration with Roche has made us the number one
Manager of Roche Portugal at the time, who needed a distributor for all pharmaceutical products in Portugal,
distributor to transport sensitive oncology products. supplying 90 million life-saving products a year.
I was completely honest and told him that we had no
experience with pharmaceuticals, but we were willing As Chairman, I am training my son, Nuno, to take
to invest and learn. “Why should I trust you?” he over when I retire. My greatest wish is to keep the
asked. I looked him in the eye and replied: “Because Rangel Group in the family and to continue fulfilling
I am putting my own reputation and the reputation our promise in the future.
of my company on the line. When I make promises,
I keep them.”
106 107Roche | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance | Roche
Cor porate
Gove r nance
108 109Roche | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance | Roche
Principles Board of Directors
Roche is committed to serving all its stakeholders. corporate governance requirements, in particular At the 98th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of ‘Board of Directors and Corporate Executive
As a basis for the successful implementation of this with all applicable laws, the Swiss Stock Exchange Roche Holding Ltd, on 1 March 2016, shareholders Committee’).
commitment our corporate governance principles (SIX Swiss Exchange) directives and the Swiss Code of re-elected Dr Christoph Franz as Chairman of the
accordingly put the focus of our business activities on Best Practice for Corporate Governance promulgated Board of Directors. On 14 March 2017, at the forthcoming AGM the Board
sustainable value creation and innovation and prescribe by the Swiss business federation ‘economiesuisse’. The of Directors nominates the Chairman, all remaining
a management culture conforming to recognised company’s internal governance framework, particularly Furthermore, the AGM re-elected André Hoffmann, Members of the Board of Directors for re-election.
standards of good corporate governance and a policy its Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, embodies all Prof. Dr Pius Baschera, Prof. Sir John Bell, Paul Bulcke,
of transparent communication. the principles needed to ensure that the company’s Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton, Dr Andreas Oeri, Prof. Dr Pius Baschera, who is a member of the
businesses are managed and supervised in a manner Bernard Poussot, Dr Severin Schwan, Peter R. Voser Board of Directors since 2007, decided not to stand
A strong Board of Directors, which represents the consistent with good corporate governance, including and elected Julie Brown and Dr Claudia Süssmuth for re-election, as announced in December 2016.
interests of the shareholders and all other stakeholders, the necessary checks and balances. 1 Dyckerhoff as new members of the Board of Directors
and highly skilled managers that act with integrity are for a term of one year as provided by the Articles The Board nominates Anita Hauser for election as a new
extremely important. The printed Annual Report contains selected links to of Incorporation. Dame DeAnne Julius and member of the Board of Directors at the AGM 2017.
the Roche website (www.roche.com). Readers are thus Prof. Dr Beatrice Weder di Mauro did not stand
In 2016, for the 8th consecutive year, Roche has been provided not only with a ‘snapshot’ of our company for re-election. Moreover, the Board of Directors nominates
recognised by the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices at the reporting date but are also directed to sources Dr Christoph Franz, André Hoffmann,
as the Group Leader in sustainability within the which they can consult at any time for up-to-date In addition, the AGM elected Dr Christoph Franz, Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton, Bernard Poussot and
pharmaceuticals, biotechnology and life sciences information about corporate governance at Roche. André Hoffmann, Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton, Peter R. Voser for re-election as members of the
industry. Sustainability is at the core of our business Whereas each annual report covers a single financial Bernard Poussot and Peter R. Voser as members Remuneration Committee by the AGM in 2017.
practices and this award reflects our commitment year ending 31 December, our website contains of the Remuneration Committee.
to running our business in a way that is ethical, information of a more permanent nature, as well as As in the previous year, the Board of Directors
responsible and creates long-term value for stakeholders. the latest Roche news. The company’s Articles of At its organising meeting immediately following the nominates BDO AG as the independent proxy for
Incorporation, Bylaws and the curricula vitae of the AGM, the Board of Directors has determined the the period from 2017 until the conclusion of the 2018
This Corporate Governance Report sets out the members of the Board of Directors and the Corporate structure and composition of its remaining committees ordinary Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
structures, processes and rules which Roche takes as Executive Committee are published on our website. as shown below (see also pages 18 to 19 and page 115 for election by the AGM.
the basis for well-functioning corporate governance.
In doing so, Roche complies with all relevant For further details please refer to the following report.
Composition as at 31.12.2016 Name (year of birth) First elected
Board of Directors Dr Christoph Franz (1960) C, D *, E Chairman 2011
André Hoffmann (1958) (representative of the A, C *, D, E Vice-Chairman 1996
Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting
shareholder group with pooled voting rights)
Dr Andreas Oeri (1949) (representative of the A *, E 1996
Board of Directors shareholder group with pooled voting rights)
Prof. Dr Pius Baschera (1950) A, E 2007
Board of Directors Board Committees Prof. Sir John Irving Bell (1952) B, E 2001
Julie Brown (1962) B*, E 2016
Presidium and Nomination Committee
and Board Committees Paul Bulcke (1954) B, E 2011
Remuneration Committee
Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton (1953) C, E 2015
Audit Committee
Bernard Poussot (1952) C, E 2015
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
Dr Severin Schwan (1967) F 2013
Dr Claudia Süssmuth Dyckerhoff (1967) A, B, E 2016
Corporate Executive Corporate Executive Committee
Peter R. Voser (1958) C, E 2011
CEO CEO General
Committee CEO CFO HR Secretary to the Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954)
Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Counsel
Board of Directors
Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee Honorary Chairman Dr Fritz Gerber (1929)
Enlarged Corporate
gRED pRED Partnering Communications of the Board of Directors
Executive Committee Chugai A Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee B Audit Committee C Remuneration Committee
D Presidium/Nomination Committee E Non-executive director F Executive director
* Committee chairperson
1 roche.com/governance
110 111Roche | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance | Roche
Corporate Executive Committee Group structure and shareholders
Silvia Ayyoubi, Head of Group Human Resources All other memberships of the Corporate Executive Roche’s operating businesses are organised into and in Note 4 to the Financial Statements of Roche
for Roche and member of the Corporate Executive Committee remained unchanged in 2016. two divisions: Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics. The Holding Ltd (‘Significant shareholders’, page 151).
Committee, retired from Roche on March 2016. The Pharmaceuticals Division comprises the two business In addition, significant shareholders are published on SIX Exchange
Board of Directors has appointed Cristina A. Wilbur Information on each member of the Corporate segments Roche Pharmaceuticals and Chugai, whereas the relevant webpage of the disclosure office of SIX Regulation:
to succeed Silvia Ayyoubi as Head of Group Human Executive Committee and of the Enlarged Corporate Genentech as the former third segment has been Exchange Regulation. six-exchange-
Resources and member of the Corporate Executive Executive Committee is listed below (see also pages 24 integrated into Roche Pharmaceuticals. The Diagnostics regulation.com/
Committee. to 25 and page 115 ‘Board of Directors and Corporate Division consists of the following four business areas: André Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman of the Board significant-
Executive Committee’). Diabetes Care, Molecular Diagnostics, Professional of Directors and Chairman of the Remuneration shareholders
Diagnostics and Tissue Diagnostics. Committee, and Dr Andreas Oeri, member of the
Board of Directors and Chairman of the Board’s
Composition as at 31.12.2016 Name (year of birth) Position Since Business activities are carried out through Group Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee,
Corporate Executive Dr Severin Schwan (1967) CEO of the Roche Group 2008 subsidiaries and associated companies. Detailed serve in their respective capacities on the Board and
Committee Daniel O’Day (1964) CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals 2010 information on Roche Holding Ltd and on significant its committees as representatives of the shareholder
Roland Diggelmann (1967) CEO Roche Diagnostics 2012 subsidiaries and associated companies (including group with pooled voting rights and receive the
Dr Alan Hippe (1967) Chief Financial and IT Officer 2011 company name, listing information, domicile, share remuneration set forth in the Remuneration Report
Cristina A. Wilbur (1967) Head Group Human Resources 2016 capital, and equity interest) are listed in the Finance on page 135 and in the Finance Report, Note 30 to
Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954) General Counsel 2003 Report, Note 31 to the Roche Group Consolidated the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Enlarged Corporate Osamu Nagayama (1947) Chairman and CEO Chugai 2006 Financial Statements (‘Subsidiaries and associates’, (‘Related parties’, page 109). With the exception of
Executive Committee Dr Michael D. Varney (1958) Head Genentech Research and 2015 page 111). Dr Jörg Duschmalé, who works as a post-doc at Roche,
Early Development (gRED) no other relationships exist with the shareholders
Prof. Dr John C. Reed (1958) Head Roche Pharma Research and 2013 Major shareholders are listed in the Finance Report, with pooled voting rights.
Early Development (pRED) Notes 21 and 30 to the Roche Group Consolidated
Dr Stephan Feldhaus (1962) Head Group Communications 2010 Financial Statements (‘Equity attributable to Roche There are no cross-shareholdings.
Dr Sophie Kornowski-Bonnet (1963) Head Roche Partnering 2012 shareholders’ and ‘Related parties’, pages 81 and 109)
Secretary to the Corporate Per-Olof Attinger (1960)
Executive Committee
Statutory Auditors KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler SA (reporting years 2004–2008)
of Roche Holding Ltd KPMG AG (since 2009)
Auditor in charge: John A. Morris (2004–2010) Roche Pharmaceuticals (incl. Genentech)
Pharmaceuticals
Ian Starkey (since 2011) Chugai
Chief Compliance Officer Dr Urs Jaisli (1956)
Professional Diagnostics
Molecular Diagnostics
Diagnostics
Tissue Diagnostics
Diabetes Care
Composition as at 31.12.2016
Corporate Executive Corporate Executive Committee
CEO CEO General
Committee CEO CFO HR
Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Counsel
Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
Enlarged Corporate
gRED pRED Partnering Communications
Executive Committee Chugai
112 113Roche | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance | Roche
Capital structure Board of Directors and Corporate
Executive Committee
Information on Roche’s capital structure is provided in (including the provisions protecting the interests
the Finance Report, Notes to the Financial Statements of NES holders) are described in §4 of the Articles
of Roche Holding Ltd (page 150). Additional details of Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd. Information on each member of the Board of Directors capacity at any Group subsidiary during the three
are contained in the Articles of Incorporation of Roche and on each member of the Corporate Executive financial years preceeding the current reporting
Holding Ltd. 2 Information on debt instruments which have been Committee is listed on pages 111 and 112. Members of period and they are for lack of existing business
issued and on outstanding bonds is provided in the Board of Directors have no age limit or restriction connections with any Group subsidiary independent.
Movement in recognised amounts during the last the Finance Report, Note 20 to the Roche Group on their term of office. Curricula vitae of all current The independence definition is based on the definition
three financial years are detailed in the Finance Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Debt’, page 76). and of former members (of the last five years) of both in the Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate
Report, Notes to the Financial Statements of Roche bodies and other information (including information Governance of ‘economiesuisse’.
Holding Ltd (page 151). Information on employee stock options is provided on the years of their first election as board members,
in the Finance Report, Note 26 to the Roche Group additional positions, memberships and activities) are The Principles of Governance (principles of delegation
The company has a share capital of CHF 160,000,000, Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Equity available and continuously updated on the Internet.3 and competence, reservation of powers and management
divided into 160,000,000 fully paid bearer shares compensation plans’, page 93), including detailed of a group of companies) of the executive bodies of
with a nominal value of CHF 1 each. There are no information on the ‘Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rules pursuant to article 12 para. 1 point 1 VegüV the company include economic, environmental and
restrictions on the exercise of the voting rights of Rights (S-SARs) Plan’, the ‘Roche Restricted Stock on the number of permitted activities of the Board of social topics. The principles together with the internal
these shares. Upon deposit, shares can be voted Unit Plan’, the ‘Roche Performance Share Plan’, Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee organisation of the Board of Directors, the division of
without any restrictions. ‘Roche Connect’ and the ‘Roche Option Plan’. members are outlined in §22.4 of the Articles of authority and responsibilities between the Board and
Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd.4 management, the remits of the Board committees, and
There is no authorised or conditional capital. Roche has issued no options apart from employee the information and control mechanisms available to
stock options as described in the Finance Report, Since 2014 the Annual General Meeting elects all the Board in its dealings with corporate management,
In addition, 702,562,700 non-voting equity securities Note 26 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial members of the Board of Directors, the Chairman are governed by the Bylaws.6
(NES) have been issued in bearer form. They do not Statements (‘Equity compensation plans’, page 93) and of the Board of Directors and the members of the
form part of the share capital and confer no voting options issued in connection with debt instruments. Remuneration Committee on an annual basis in The Board of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd is
rights. Each NES confers the same rights as one elections in which each nominee is voted on separately organised so as to ensure that the Group conducts its
share to participate in available earnings and in any Neither the options awarded to employees nor the (see §18 of the Articles of Incorporation of Roche businesses responsibly and with a focus on long-term
liquidation proceeds following repayment of the share debt instruments which have been issued have any Holding Ltd 4 and the Minutes of the 98th Annual value creation. To this end, the Roche Board has
capital. Roche’s NES and the rights pertaining thereto effect on Roche’s share capital. General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, held on delegated certain responsibilities to several committees.7
1 March 2016 5). Their composition and chairpersons as at 31 December
2016 are described on page 111. Each committee’s
With the exception of Dr Severin Schwan none of authorities and responsibilities are defined in detail in
the members of the Board of Directors in office at the the Bylaws of the Board of Directors.8
end of 2016 has been a member of Roche’s Corporate
Executive Committee or served in an executive All the committees are chaired by independent directors.
Board of Directors
Board of Directors Board Committees
Presidium and Nomination Committee
and Board Committees
2 roche.com/article_of_incorporation Remuneration Committee
3 roche.com/board_of_directors and roche.com/executive_committee Audit Committee
4 roche.com/article_of_incorporation Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
5 roche.com/annual_general_meetings
6 roche.com/article_of_incorporation Corporate Executive Corporate Executive Committee
7 roche.com/committees
Committee
8 roche.com/article_of_incorporation
114 115Roche | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance | Roche
According to the Bylaws of the Board of Directors, a auditors, with findings presented to the Audit • Safety, Health and Environmental Protection In 2016, the Board of Directors met for 7 meetings,
Board meeting may be convened without the Chairman Committee and the full Board. Department11 generally each from 3 to 6 hours in length; including
present at the request of any of its members. The Roche For details on risk management, including risk • Corporate Sustainability Committee12 a full-day meeting and in addition for a 4-day visit to
Board meets once a year to assess the Chairman’s factors and the Risk Management Policy see • Science and Ethics Advisory Group (SEAG), for a major subsidiary**. The Board committees met as
performance. This meeting, which is not attended by ‘Risk Management’ on our website.9 Financial risk issues relating to genetics and genetic engineering13 follows in 2016:
the Chairman, is chaired by the Vice-Chairman. management is specifically described in the • Presidium of the Board of Directors/Nomination
Finance Report.10 The members of the Corporate Executive Committee Committee: 5 meetings (approx. 2 hours each**)
As part of the Management Information System (MIS), • System of internal controls over financial reporting are invited to attend meetings of the Board of • Remuneration Committee: 2 meetings14 (approx.
the Board of Directors is informed about the most (see pages 124 and 133 of the Finance Report) Directors for, and report in person on, those agenda 2 to 3 hours each**)
important issues, sales performance etc. on a monthly • Internal audit items concerning them. When the situation warrants, • Audit Committee: 4 meetings (approx. 3 to 4 hours
basis. The Board has access to an electronic information Group Audit reports to the General Counsel, has members of the Enlarged Corporate Executive each**)
platform which provides timely information to the direct access and gives regular briefings to the Audit Committee may also be invited to attend. The Board • Corporate Governance and Sustainability
Board of Directors and the Board’s committees as Committee and to the Corporate Governance and committees invite the Chairman of the Board and Committee: 3 meetings (approx. 3 hours each**)
does the system of controls as set forth below. Sustainability Committee about ongoing activities Corporate Executive Committee members to deliver
and audit reports. The Chief Audit & Risk Advisory reports at committee meetings and may elect to The Board of Directors regularly conducts an
The Board of Directors has established a system of Executive attends the Audit Committee and partly commission independent expert reports and call assessment (self-assessment/assessment by third parties
controls which is continuously monitored by the the Corporate Governance and Sustainability on the services of consultants. via electronical survey and personal interviews) of its
Audit Committee, by the Corporate Governance Committee meetings, as do the external auditors. performance. In 2016, a self-assessment of the Board
and Sustainability Committee and by the Board of Each year several black-out periods are imposed of Directors was conducted.
Directors and consists of the following elements: Group Audit is an independent appraisal function, during which senior employees are prohibited from
• Report on operating and financial risks (risk which evaluates and reviews the Group’s activities as trading in company stock. The following black-out Members of the Corporate Executive Committee have
management system) a service to management. The annual audit plan with periods are in effect for 2017: a maximum ordinary notice period of twelve months.
The Roche Group has established a risk management yearly defined focus areas (eg, market access, third- 26 December 2016 to 1 February 2017 There are no change-of-control clauses in the
process covering the entire company with a system party management) is validated by Senior Management 1 April to 27 April 2017 employment contracts.
in place to identify and manage all type of risks and presented to the Audit Committee. The Roche 26 June to 27 July 2017
potentially affecting its business (including economic, Group is committed to maintaining a high standard of 1 October to 19 October 2017 There are no management contracts which fall within
environmental, and social impacts, risks and internal control throughout its worldwide operations. Black-out periods can be changed by the Chairman the scope of Subsection 4.4 (annex) of the SIX Directive
opportunities and containing stakeholder input). Management is responsible for assessing the of the Board of Directors if circumstances warrant. on Information relating to Corporate Governance.
The Board of Directors is the highest governance business risks in all aspects of its operation and for
body involved. Roche’s Risk Management Policy sets implementing effective and efficient processes and
out the approach and accompanying responsibilities. controls whilst ensuring compliance with internal
The Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions and and external rules and regulations.
global functions conduct a formal risk assessment By conducting operational audits, Group Audit
process at least once a year and must develop risk determines management’s response to the risks
plans for their most material risks. These are surrounding business processes and systems, and
monitored and deviations reviewed in regular evaluates the appropriateness, completeness and
performance dialogues. The consolidated Group Risk efficiency of the processes and controls. Action plans
Report including target risk profile is discussed by to implement necessary changes and enhancements
the Corporate Executive Committee and approved are developed together with the business/auditee
together with the Group Business Plan. All material and are tracked to completion.
risks are reviewed by the Board on a yearly basis. • Statutory auditors, see page 120
The effectiveness of the risk management process is • Chief Compliance Officer and Compliance Officers
monitored by the Group Risk Advisory team and in subsidiaries, see page 123
the overall process is regularly reviewed by external
9 roche.com/risk-management 11 roche.com/environment
10 Additional information is provided in the Finance Report, Note 29 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements, ‘Risk management’, 12 roche.com/sustainability
page 100. 13 roche.com/ethical_conflicts
14 Remuneration Committee members recuse themselves from deliberations and decisions on matters that affect their interests.
** These figures indicate the actual length of meetings and do not include the directors’ extensive pre-meeting preparations and post-meeting follow-up activities.
116 117Roche | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance | Roche
Remuneration, shareholdings and loans
Board and Board Committees attendance 2016
Corporate
Presidium/ Governance and Rules in Aol 15 for
Nomination Remuneration Audit Sustainability All details regarding remuneration, shareholdings
Board Committee Committee Committee Committee and loans (content and method of determining the Content Board CEC
Number of meetings 7 5 2 4 3 compensation and the shareholding programmes, Rules on the principles §25.1–6 §25.1–6
Ch. Franz 7 5 2 4* 3* basic principles and elements of compensation and applicable to performance-
A. Hoffmann 7 5 2 – 3 shareholding programmes for serving and former related pay
P. Baschera 7 – – – 3 members of the Board of Directors and Corporate Rules on the principles to the §25.7 §25.7
J. Bell 7 – – 4 – Executive Committee, together with a description of allocation of equity securities,
J. Brown (since March 2016) 6 – – 3 – the authorities and procedure for determining such) convertible rights and options
P. Bulcke 7 – – 4 – are set forth in the separate Remuneration Report on Additional amount for payments §24.5
R.P. Lifton 7 – 1 – – pages 124 to 150 and in the Finance Report, Notes 21 to members of the Executive
B. Poussot 7 – 2 – – and 30 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Committee appointed after the
S. Schwan 7 – – 4* – Statements (‘Equity attributable to Roche shareholders’ vote on pay at the General
A. Oeri 7 – – – 3 and ‘Related parties’, pages 81 and 109), and are listed Meeting of Shareholders
C. Süssmuth Dyckerhoff in Note 6 to the Financial Statements of Roche Rules on loans, credit facilities §25.1 and 3 §25.2 and 3
(since March 2016) 6 – – 3 2 Holding Ltd (‘Board and Executive shareholdings’, and post-employment benefits
P. R. Voser 6 – 2 – – page 152). Rules on the vote on pay at §24 §24
Retired Board members the AGM
(retired in March 2016) The following rules on Remuneration, shareholdings
D. Julius 1 – – 1 – and loans for the Board of Directors (Board) and the
B. Weder di Mauro 1 – – 1 – Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) are set forth
in the Articles of Incorporation (AoI)15:
– Not a member of that committee.
* Invited as a guest to these Board committee meetings.
Participatory rights of shareholders
Dr Andreas Oeri, Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee.
The participatory rights of shareholders are Under §10.2 of the Articles of Incorporation,
defined in Roche’s Articles of Incorporation.15 shareholders representing shares with a nominal
As Roche shares are issued to bearer, there are no value of at least CHF 1 million can request the
restrictions on admission to Annual General placement of items on the agenda of an Annual
Meetings, with the exception that shares must be General Meeting. This must be done no later
deposited within a specified period before the date than 28 days before the date of the meeting.
of a meeting and an admittance card must be issued
in the shareholder’s name, as provided in §12 of the The rules on the issue of instructions to the
Articles of Incorporation. Any shareholder can elect independent proxy and rules on the electronic
to be represented by a third party at an Annual participation in the AGM are laid down in the
General Meeting. corresponding invitation to the AGM and are
not regulated in the Articles of Incorporation.
The Articles of Incorporation contain no restrictions
on the exercise of voting rights, and the only quorum
requirements are those stipulated in §16, in conformity
with the Swiss Code of Obligations.
15 roche.com/article_of_incorporation
118 119Roche | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance | Roche
Change of control and defensive measures
The statutory auditors are elected each year by the Other services include advice relating to process
Annual General Meeting. improvements, regulations and trainings.
The Articles of Incorporation contain no provisions would be terminated in the event of an acquisition, Auditing services are provided as legally required. The company has a formal policy governing the
on the mandatory bid rule. Swiss law applies. and vesting period restrictions on pre-existing awards engagement of the statutory auditor for non-audit
would be removed, so that all such options could be Audit-related services include assurance and services. The policy prohibits certain services from
There are no change-of-control clauses. Those exercised immediately. accounting services provided by auditors but which being provided but permits certain other services
components of remuneration based on Roche NES are not necessarily provided by the statutory auditor. up to limits agreed by the Audit Committee. Each
These services include audits of pension funds and potential non-audit service engagement is reviewed
employee benefit plans, internal control reviews against this policy before any authority to proceed
which go beyond the legal requirements, and other is given.
attestation services, comfort letters, consents
Relationship to statutory auditors and consultation.
Tax services include services with respect to
compliance, tax returns and tax advice except
At the Annual General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd The reports of statutory auditor on the Consolidated those services related to the audit of tax.
on 1 March 2016, the shareholders voted to appoint Financial Statements and on the Financial Statements
KPMG AG (KPMG) as statutory auditors. Based on can be found on pages 125 and 156, respectively, of
the existing legal requirements of the Swiss Code of this year’s Finance Report.
Obligations (Article 730a) concerning the maximum Relationship to the independent proxy
term of office of seven years of the auditor in charge, KPMG received the following remuneration for their
Ian Starkey replaced his predecessor John Morris as services as statutory auditors of Roche Holding Ltd
auditor-in-charge starting with the business year 2011 and as the auditors of other Roche companies
(information on how long the auditors and auditor-in- (including Chugai): In recent years, BDO AG served as the independent The rules on the issue of instructions to the
charge have been serving in these capacities is provided proxy and at the Annual General Meeting on independent proxy and rules on the electronic
on page 112). The statutory auditors participate in 2016 2015 1 March 2016, shareholders elected BDO AG as the participation in the AGM are laid down in the
Audit Committee meetings. They prepare written and (millions of CHF) independent proxy for the period from 2016 until the corresponding invitation to the AGM and are
oral reports on the results of their audits. The Audit Auditing services 21.5 21.1 conclusion of the 2017 ordinary Annual General not regulated in the Articles of Incorporation.
Committee oversees and assesses the auditors and Audit-related services Meeting of Shareholders. BDO AG was paid in 2016
makes recommendations to the Board (for information — Assurance 0.8 0.8 for its services according to expenditure totalling
on the authorities and responsibilities of the Audit — Non statutory audits 2.6 – CHF 17,334 (2015: CHF 17,010).
Committee, see Article 8.1 of the Bylaws16). The Tax services 1.4 1.3
statutory auditors participated in all 4 meetings of Other services 2.2 1.7
the Audit Committee in 2016. Total 28.5 24.9
16 roche.com/article_of_incorporation
120 121Roche | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance | Roche
Information policy Chief Compliance Officer and
Compliance Officers network
As provided by §34 of the Articles of Incorporation17, All relevant information and documents, including
corporate notices are published in the Swiss Official all media releases, investor updates19 and presentations
Gazette of Commerce and in other daily newspapers to analyst and investor conferences are available The Chief Compliance Officer with his Compliance It furthermore will serve as a platform for ideas
designated by the Board of Directors (‘Basler Zeitung’, on the Internet. Further publications are available Officers network is committed to ensuring that the and suggestions concerning those documents.
‘Finanz und Wirtschaft’, ‘L’Agefi’, ‘Le Temps’, ‘Neue on roche.com/publications or can be ordered by Roche Group Code of Conduct21 is consistently
Zürcher Zeitung’). e-mail or fax: complied with throughout the Roche Group. He also In addition, Roche has established a Business Ethics
basel.warehouse-services@roche.com serves as a contact person for shareholders, employees, Incident Reporting (BEIR) system which enables
Roche reports its half-year and full-year results in fax +41 (0)61 688 41 96 customers, suppliers and the general public on issues the Chief Compliance Officer to capture, track and
business reports (published in print and/or online relating to the implementation of and compliance monitor alleged violations, from initial reports by
formats) and at media events. In addition, detailed The contact address for Investor Relations is: with this Code. Employees and other parties who local Compliance Officers through to resolution.
first-quarter and nine months sales figures are F.Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Investor Relations, become aware of violations of the Roche Group Code
published each year in April and October. The Group Finance, 4070 Basel, Switzerland of Conduct can bring them to the attention of their Business ethics incidents are recorded in the system
most current list of publication dates is available tel. +41 (0)61 688 88 80 managers or supervisors, to the local compliance when the local management receives specific and
in English and German on the Internet.18 fax +41 (0)61 691 00 14 officer or report them to the Chief Compliance Officer concrete information about an alleged violation of the
(Dr Urs Jaisli, direct phone number: +41 (0)61 688 40 18, Roche Group Code of Conduct in one of certain pre-
Additional information, including details on specific e-mail: urs.jaisli@roche.com). Such disclosures will be defined categories.22 The Corporate Governance and
contact persons, is available on the Internet.20 treated confidentially. In addition, as of the end of 2009, Sustainability Committee and the Audit Committee
employees may anonymously report irregularities or of the Board of Directors are informed of substantial
complaints in their mother tongue via a ‘SpeakUp violations and management’s corrective actions made.
Line’. Starting in December 2013, a new compliance
tool on Group level, the so-called Roche Group Code The Chief Compliance Officer reports to the General
of Conduct Help & Advice Line, was introduced Counsel and also submits regular reports to the
which strives to provide guidance in case of questions Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
or uncertainties about the interpretation of the Roche and as needed to the Audit Committee of the Board
Group Code of Conduct and its reference documents. of Directors.
Non-applicability/negative disclosure
It is expressly noted that any information not contained (as provided in the SIX Swiss Exchange Corporate
or mentioned herein is either non-applicable or its Governance Directive and the Commentary thereto).
omission is to be construed as a negative declaration
17 roche.com/article_of_incorporation
18 roche.com/media
19 roche.com/investors
20 roche.com/investors/contacts
21 roche.com/code_of_conduct
22 roche.com/risk-management
122 123Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
Re mune ration
Re por t
Material topic covered in this chapter
· Executive compensation
124 125Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
1. Principles 2. Remuneration decision process and
approval framework
Roche’s success depends substantially on the expertise, For a global company like Roche, market-competitive
motivation and performance of its employees. This remuneration plays a key role along with a performance-
conviction forms the basis of our compensation policy. based, transparent compensation structure. To ensure 2.1 Overview powers and procedures for making remuneration
that compensation packages are competitive, both the Each year the Remuneration Committee of Roche’s decisions can be found in the Bylaws of the
Roche aims to remunerate all employees fairly, structure and individual components are regularly Board of Directors decides the remuneration of Roche Board of Directors3 and in the Articles of
transparently and in line with market conditions, benchmarked against Swiss, European and international Board members and the members of the Group’s Incorporation.4 They are also outlined in the
to enable them to participate appropriately in the criteria. Our remuneration guidelines and their Corporate Executive Committee. The terms of the sections below on the principles governing specific
company’s success. We pursue this goal by providing underlying principles are also subject to regular long-term oriented Performance Share Plan (PSP) remuneration components (see 3.).
competitive, performance-based and results-oriented outside comparisons. awards are decided annually by the Board of
compensation. Directors, acting upon recommendations from Since 2014, total aggregate amounts which are based
However, compensation policy is only one factor in the Remuneration Committee. on these decisions are submitted to the General
We strive for a balanced mix of fixed and variable safeguarding Roche’s future success. Another key Meeting for approval implementing the ‘Ordinance
compensation components geared to each employee’s element is a corporate culture that offers employees The Remuneration Committee tracks market data against excessive compensation in listed corporations’
position and management responsibility. conditions in which they can make their best possible on salaries at other leading global pharmaceuticals (Verordnung gegen übermässige Vergütungen bei
contribution to the shared corporate goal of improving companies1 and at major Swiss companies2 and börsenkotierten Aktiengesellschaften [VegüV]). The
Firstly, the variable components are intended to create healthcare to patients. This includes a sound value reports its findings to the full Board. The external General Meeting shall vote annually and with binding
additional financial incentives to achieve corporate system that is based on integrity, courage and passion. consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) effect on the approval of the remuneration (that the
goals and to keep innovation at a consistently high At the same time, our decentralised management assists the Remuneration Committee of Roche in Board of Directors has resolved) of the Board of
Compensation level while increasing the value that the company approach plays a major role with its wide scope for performing market comparisons and in advising. Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee
policy: creates for all stakeholder groups. Secondly, in order individual decision-making, respectful interactions, Information on the Remuneration Committee’s remit, (for details see 4. and 5.).
roche.com/rewards to allow employees and managers to participate in the openness to diversity, wide-ranging training and
company’s business success, adequate compensation development opportunities and an attractive working
Sound value system: measures are key. Both objectives are incentivised by environment. An unidimensional diminishment to Remuneration decision process and approval framework
roche.com/living_ annual bonus payments and long-term share-based questions on remuneration would fall by far too short. Beneficiary
our_values programmes.
Remuneration Board of Directors (BoD) Corporate Executive Decision by Approval by
Roche is committed to a fair, performance-based components Chairman (C) Committee (CEC) incl.
CEO Roche Group
and results-oriented compensation policy that links
employees’ interests with those of various other Base pay/remuneration √ √
stakeholder groups. Bonus √(C only) √
Stock-settled Stock – √
Appreciation Rights Remuneration Committee
Restricted Stock Units – Since 2016 for CEC Annual General
replaced by award of Meeting
corresponding PSPs
Performance Share Plan – √ Board of Directors upon
recommendation from
Remuneration Committee
Decisions on pension √(C only) √ Remuneration Committee
1 Peer set for 2016: Abbott Laboratories, AbbVie, Amgen, Astellas, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline,
Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co., Novartis, Pfizer, Sanofi, Takeda (no change in composition of peer set compared to 2015).
2 ABB, Actelion, Credit Suisse, LafargeHolcim, Nestlé, Sonova, Straumann, Swiss Re, UBS, Zurich Insurance.
3 roche.com/article_of_incorporation
4 roche.com/article_of_incorporation
126 127Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
Peer set for 2016 2.2 Procedure for submitting total Board and Retrospective approval
Executive remuneration for shareholder approval Total aggregate bonus amounts for the Corporate
Abbott Laboratories ABB at the Annual General Meeting Executive Committee and the Chairman of the Board
AbbVie Actelion Each year at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of Directors for the financial year just ended will be
Amgen Credit Suisse shareholders approve the total remuneration for the submitted retrospectively at each ordinary AGM for
Astellas LafargeHolcim Board of Directors and for the Corporate Executive separate and binding approval.
AstraZeneca Nestlé Committee as decided by the Board of Directors’
Roche
Bayer Sonova Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors, Prospective approval
Bristol-Myers Squibb Straumann respectively. All other Board and Executive aggregate remuneration
Eli Lilly Swiss Re will be submitted prospectively to the AGM for separate
GlaxoSmithKline UBS According to the approval at the AGM 2014, and binding approval for the period between two
Johnson & Johnson Zurich Insurance Roche has committed itself to obtaining separate ordinary AGMs.
Merck & Co. and binding shareholder approvals of the total
Peer set for 2016
Novartis remuneration paid to the Board of Directors and
Pfizer to the Corporate Executive Committee as follows:
Sanofi
Takeda
Market comparison companies for salary assessment Approval of total remuneration at the Annual General Financial year 2016 Financial year 2017
Meeting 2017
Pharma Peer set
Major Swiss companies
Retrospective:
Chairman of the BoD (C):
C
• Bonus for financial year 2016 (total amount) Bonus
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) including
CEO Roche Group: CEC
Bonus
André Hoffmann, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. • Bonus for financial year 2016 (total amount)
Prospective:
Board of Directors (BoD) including C: BoD
Base pay/remuneration
Aggregate total remuneration (AGM 2017–AGM 2018)
• Base pay/remuneration
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) including
CEC
CEO Roche Group: Base pay
Aggregate total remuneration (AGM 2017–AGM 2018) S-SARs
PSP
• Base pay
Indirect benefits
• Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
• Performance Share Plan (PSP)
• Indirect benefits
AGM 2016 AGM 2017 AGM 2018
1.1.2016 1.1.2017 1.1.2018
128 129Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
3. Remuneration components Variable
STI: Base salary
• Bonus
3.1 Overview of remuneration elements The remuneration components are linked to the Indirect benefits (employer contribution):
Remuneration to the members of the Board of employees’ performance, the company’s financial LTI: • Pensions and insurance contributions
Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee performance and commercial success and thus align • Stock-settled Stock • Roche Connect
are composed of the following elements (for concrete the interests of Roche and its employees with those Appreciation Rights Roche • Tax consulting services
composition see chart below: ‘Composition of of shareholders. • Performance Share Plan
remuneration
remuneration to the Board of Directors and the Expense allowances
Corporate Executive Committee’): The LTI remuneration components are intended to components
Others:
sustainably and homogenously and long-term oriented
• Children’s schooling costs
The fixed base salary is complemented with the align management’s interest with those of shareholders
• Foreign tax obligation
annual variable bonus as Short-Term Incentive (STI) and holders of non-voting equity securities and to give
• AHV/IV/ALV
and with perennial variable remuneration elements participating managers an additional incentive to
(S-SARs, PSP) as Long-Term Incentive (LTI). achieve value growth in the form of long-term total
Fixed
shareholder returns. By creating value for Roche
In 2016, Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) as remuneration investors, management benefits as well. When no
component for the Corporate Executive Committee added long-term value is created for investors,
were replaced by awarding of corresponding PSPs management is ‘penalised’ by receiving less.
(see 3.1.4). 3.1.1 Base pay (fixed) individual performance objectives of members of its
Base pay (cash payment) is determined for each Corporate Executive Committee.
position based on salary market data of other leading
Composition of remuneration to the Board of Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee global pharmaceuticals companies (see footnote 1) In December at the end of a reporting year or in
and of other major Swiss companies (see footnote 2) January following a reporting year the Remuneration
Annual
remuneration elements Description C BoD CEO Roche Group CEC and reflects individuals’ abilities, experience and Committee decides on the bonuses and their amounts
Base pay/ Monthly payment √ √ Quarterly √ √ performance over time. Pay adjustments are likewise payable to the Chairman of the Board and the members
remuneration (see 3.1.1 below) payments linked to individual performance and take into of the Corporate Executive Committee in respect of
Bonus Annual payment √ For 10 years – √ For 10 years √Cash account prevailing market conditions and the the current reporting year, based on performance
(see 3.1.2 below) blocked shares blocked shares company’s overall financial situation. against the aforementioned objectives. At the same
Pensions etc. (see 3.1.6 below) √ – √ √ time, the Remuneration Committee also decides in
Perennial The Remuneration Committee makes and reviews what form bonuses will be awarded, ie, cash payments
remuneration elements the final decision on the individual base pay paid to and/or long-term blocked non-voting equity securities
Stock-settled Stock (see 3.1.3 below) – – √ √ the Chairman of the Board of Directors and members and/or blocked shares.
Appreciation Rights of the Corporate Executive Committee and on the
(S-SARs) remuneration of the other members of the Board. 3.1.3 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights
Performance Share (see 3.1.5 below) – – √ For 10 years √ (variable)
Plan (PSP) blocked shares 3.1.2 Bonuses (variable) S-SARs entitle holders to benefit financially from
Bonuses are annually awarded for individual any increase in the value of Roche’s non-voting equity
contributions of value creation in a business year and securities between the grant date and the exercise date.
are meant to be an incentive to strive for outstanding As of 2012, S-SARs granted all vest together after three
results and to create new business opportunities. years and then have to be exercised within seven years
Bonus amounts are linked to Group and divisional of the grant date. Unexercised S-SARs lapse without
core profits, sales growth at constant exchange rates, compensation. Since 2012, the fair value of S-SARs has
Operating Profit After Capital Charge (OPAC) based been calculated at the grant date using the trinomial
on core operating profit, core earnings per share and model for American options (for details see page 142).
Non-voting Equity Security (NES) growth at constant
exchange rates, product development pipeline and S-SAR awards to the Corporate Executive Committee
to the achievement of measurable and qualitative are allocated individually at the Remuneration
individual or functional performance objectives. For Committee’s discretion. In 2016 in addition, around
competitive reasons, Roche does not disclose the 19,000 employees received S-SAR awards.
130 131Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
3.1.4 Restricted Stock Units (variable) finishing at the end of each year. In 2016, there were 3.1.6 Indirect benefits foundation supplementing occupational pension
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) contain rights to the three overlapping performance cycles PSP 2014– As shown in 5.9 (5.3 [for the CEO Roche Group] benefits], insurances, Roche Connect [see 5.9],
receive non-voting equity securities and/or shares 2016, PSP 2015–2017 and PSP 2016–2018, of which and 4.3 [for the Chairman], respectively), members payments for foreign tax obligation and tax
after a three-year vesting period plus a value PSP 2014–2016 closed on 31 December 2016. For the of the Corporate Executive Committee additionally consulting services and annual expense allowances)
adjustment (being the amount equivalent to the PSP cycle 2014–2016 none of the targeted NES will be received indirect benefits (payments in pension and as shown under 5.10 individual members of the
sum of the dividend paid during the vesting period awarded (PSP 2013–2015 [per 31 December 2015]: funds, MGB [Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG Corporate Executive Committee received payments
attributable to the number of non-voting equity 50% of the targeted NES awarded; PSP 2012–2014 für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung als Ergänzung for schooling costs for their children.
securities for which an individual award has been [per 31 December 2014]: 175% of the targeted NES der beruflichen Vorsorge, ie, employee profit-sharing
granted). RSU awards are allocated individually at awarded).
the Remuneration Committee’s discretion and will 3.2 Weighting (fixed/variable) of 2016 remuneration components (at target and as percentage of total remuneration
be vested to the recipient after three years only. The plan’s key performance metric for an award, in 2016)
Thereafter, resulting non-voting equity securities the Total Shareholder Return (TSR), is calculated as
may remain blocked for up to 10 years. With the a three-month moving average rate before the start Chairman 90% 10%
vesting and blocking periods the interests of the of and before the end of the performance cycle. The
RSU recipients shall be aligned with the company’s payment of the Performance Share Plan is determined Board of Directors 100%
long-term success and the commitment of employees by the Board of Directors on an annual basis, acting
Corporate Executive
to the company shall be increased. upon recommendations from the Remuneration 37% 63%
Committee (including CEO
Committee.
Roche Group)
In 2016, RSUs as remuneration component for the 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Corporate Executive Committee were replaced by Starting in 2016, PSP awards as a remuneration
awarding of corresponding PSPs. Therefore, the component are reserved for the Corporate Executive fixed variable
variable long-term incentive programmes for the Committee and the Enlarged Corporate Executive
Corporate Executive Committee comprise PSP Committee whilst in previous years other members of 3.3 Ratio of variable remuneration components relative to fixed base pay of the Corporate Executive
awards and S-SARs, approximately 50% each. senior management participated in the Performance Committee 2016
Share Plan.
With this, the structure of the LTI is simplified, and Ratio of variable remuneration components (bonuses, S-SARs and PSP) relative to % of value of fixed base pay
in comparison with competitors the company’s long- As of 2016, the long-term incentive programmes for
term performance which is mirrored in the share the other previous PSP participants will comprise STI LTI
price and the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) shall S-SARs and RSUs awards, approximately 50% each. Criteria Bonus S-SARs PSP
be stronger reflected in the Corporate Executive Individual target value * 100% 66.66% 66.66% **
Committee’s remuneration. Minimum 0% 0% 0%
PSP historical performance Maximum 200% 66.66% 133.33%
RSUs as a remuneration component will be continued (% of award of originally targeted NES) Performance criteria Group objectives (Group and divisional Value development Value development
for all other around 19,000 authorised Roche business performance) and individual determined by performance determined by performance
employees. objectives considering core profits, sales (plus a value adjustment (plus a value adjustment for
200%
growth at constant exchange rates, for dividends) of NES dividends) of NES/bearer
175%
3.1.5 Performance Share Plan (PSP), (variable) 175% 175% Operating Profit After Capital Charge (OPAC) after grant shares after grant.
150%
The PSP was established in 2002 for periods of three based on core operating profit, core earnings Group performance of TSR in
125%
years each and is based on a three-year comparison per share and non-voting equidity security relation to TSR performance
100%
of the TSR with 15 peer companies (see footnote 1). (NES) growth at constant exchange rates, of peer set (TSR definition
75%
product development pipeline see 5.8)
50%
In a respective year, the PSP consists of three 50% Split in %
25%
overlapping performance cycles, with a new cycle a) Group objectives 70% n.a. 100%
0% 0%
starting at the beginning of each year and a cycle 0% b) Individual objectives 30% n.a. –
2010–2012 2011–2013 2012–2014 2013–2015 2014–2016
n.a. – not applicable
* Assessed in consideration of the performance of competitors and the macro-economic development.
** Based on annual base pay measured at 1 January of first year of cycle.
For all further details please refer to the following
sections of this Remuneration Report.5
5 See also in the Finance Report Note 30 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Related parties’, page 109) and Note 6 to
the Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Board and Executive shareholdings’, page 152).
132 133Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
4. Remuneration of the Board of
Directors
4.1 Resolution and approval 4.2 Amount of remuneration to the members of
Remuneration of the Chairman of the Board of the Board of Directors
Directors and of members of the Board of Directors In 2016, the members of the Board of Directors 6
was decided at the Remuneration Committee’s received remuneration and additional compensation
discretion, taking into account market comparisons. in form of quarterly fixed cash payments as shown
in the ‘Remuneration of members of the Board of
The remuneration is in form of cash payments and is Directors 2016’ table on page 135 for their Board
annually tracked against market data on directors’ activities. Roche paid legally required employer’s
pay at other leading global pharmaceuticals contributions of total CHF 195,114 to Swiss social
companies (see footnote 1) and other major Swiss security programmes providing retirement, disability
companies (see footnote 2) which is assisted by the and unemployment benefits (AHV/IV/ALV) for the
consultancy of PwC. members of the Board of Directors beside the legally
required contributions separately stated for the
As in the previous year, in 2017, the Board of Chairman of the Board of Directors.
Directors will separately submit the total aggregate
bonus of the Chairman of the Board of Directors to The basic remuneration of the Board of Directors
the General Meeting for the 2016 financial year for (excluding the Chairman) has remained unchanged
retrospectively binding approval. since 2001.
The maximum amounts of the total aggregate With the exception of the Chairman of the Board
remuneration of the Board of Directors for the period of Directors (bonus in form of blocked shares) and
between the ordinary General Meeting 2017 and the Dr Severin Schwan as an executive member of the
ordinary General Meeting 2018 will be tabled in 2017 Board, members of the Board of Directors were not
as in the previous year for the General Meeting’s awarded any shares, non-voting equity securities or
prospectively binding approval (see 2.2). S-SARs.
There are no loans or credits granted to the members
of the Board of Directors.
In his capacity as a member of the Chugai International
Council (CIC) of Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
André Hoffmann received honoraria amounting to a
total of USD 40,000 (CHF 39,411).
6 For a list of members, their positions and their committee memberships and chairmanships see page 111.
134 135
DETIDUA
Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors 2016 (in CHF)
Additional compensation Additional special
Basic remuneration for committee members/chairs 7 compensation Total remuneration
Ch. Franz,
Chairman (see ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’)
A.Hoffmann, 400,000 8 – 39,411 439,411
Vice-Chairman (see page 134)
P.Baschera 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
J.Bell 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
J.Brown 250,000 9 60,000 – 310,000
(since 1 March 2016)
P.Bulcke 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
R.P. Lifton 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
A.Oeri 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
B.Poussot 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
S.Schwan (See ‘5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive
Committee’, remuneration received in his primary function as CEO Roche Group and reflected in total
remuneration for the Corporate Executive Committee)
C.Süssmuth Dyckerhoff 250,000 9 60,000 – 310,000
(since 1 March 2016)
P.R. Voser 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
D.Julius 75,000 10 15,000 10 90,000 10
(retired in March 2016)
B.Weder di Mauro 75,000 10 7,500 10 – 82,500 10
(retired in March 2016)
Total 11 3,150,000 382,500 39,411 3,571,911
7 With the exception of members of the Presidium (Chairman, Vice-Chairman) Board members receive CHF 30,000/year for each committee they serve
on and CHF 60,000/year for each committee they chair.
8 Remuneration for serving as Vice-Chairman of the Board.
9 Prorated remuneration for the period from March to December 2016.
10 Prorated remuneration paid for the period January to March 2016.
11 Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 426,354 (including the Chairman) was paid that does not form part of compensation.
DETIDUARoche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
136 137
DETIDUA
4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of form of bearer shares blocked for 10 years, payable in
the Board of Directors April 2017) will be put for shareholder binding vote at
As Chairman, Dr Christoph Franz received total the 2017 ordinary Annual General Meeting (AGM).
remuneration for 2016 as shown below. The
Remuneration Committee’s bonus proposal (adopted The Chairman’s total remuneration is contained in the
in late 2016) in respect of the 2016 financial year (in total remuneration of the Board of Directors in 4.4.
Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors (in CHF)
2016 2015
Base salary (in cash) 3,500,000 3,500,000
Bonus (subject to approval of the Annual General 558,390 * 558,390 *
Meeting 2017)
Pension funds/MGB 16/insurances/annual 1,665,122 ** 1,656,388 **
expense allowances
Total 5,723,512 17 5,714,778
* In form of shares blocked for 10 years (calculation of number of shares based on the share price at the date of transfer in April 2017 and 2016,
respectively, after approval at the AGM 2017/AGM 2016, respectively), calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period
of 10 years (reduced market value: 55.839%) to be submitted for shareholder approval at the AGM 2017/as approved at the AGM 2016, respectively.
** I ncluding employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts.
16 M GB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing occupational
pension benefits).
17 Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 231,240 was paid that does not form part of compensation.
DETIDUA
4.4 Total remuneration paid to the Board 4.6 Board remuneration subject to approval at the
of Directors Annual General Meeting
For the 2016 calendar year the members of the Board
of Directors received remuneration including bonuses 4.6.1 Submission of the Chairman’s total aggregate
totalling CHF 9,295,423 (2015: CHF 9,038,843), bonus for a binding vote at the Annual General
excluding additional employer’s contribution paid Meeting
to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 426,354 (2015: Remuneration to the Chairman of the Board of
CHF 398,324) that does not form part of compensation. Directors includes a bonus award of CHF 558,390 in
form of shares blocked for 10 years as shown in the
4.5 Remuneration paid to the former members of table ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman
the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors’ on page 136. The Board of
Former member of the Board of Directors Dr Franz Directors will submit the Remuneration Committee’s
B.Humer in 2016 received honoraria amounting to a bonus proposal (adopted in late 2016) for the Chairman
total of USD 200,000 (CHF 197,054) for serving as a of the Board, Dr Christoph Franz, in respect of the
member of the Board of Directors and as a member 2016 financial year (payable in April 2017, excluding
of the Chugai International Council (CIC) of Chugai legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. ALV) for the shareholder binding vote to the 2017
ordinary Annual General Meeting (AGM).
Former member of the Board of Directors William M.
Burns in 2016 received honoraria amounting to a
total of USD 40,000 (CHF 39,411) in his capacity as a
member of the Chugai International Council (CIC)
of Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
No additional remuneration was paid.
DETIDUA
Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors 2015 (in CHF)
Additional compensation Additional special
Basic remuneration for committee members/chairs 12 compensation Total remuneration
Ch. Franz,
Chairman (see ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’)
A.Hoffmann, 400,000 13 – 24,065 424,065
Vice-Chairman
P.Baschera 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
J.Bell 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
P.Bulcke 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
D.Julius 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
R.P. Lifton 250,000 14 – – 250,000
A.Oeri 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
B.Poussot 250,000 14 30,000 – 280,000
S.Schwan (See ‘5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive Committee’,
remuneration received in his primary function as CEO Roche Group and reflected in total remuneration
for the Corporate Executive Committee)
P.R. Voser 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
B.Weder di Mauro 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
Total 15 3,000,000 300,000 24,065 3,324,065
12 With the exception of members of the Presidium (Chairman, Vice-Chairman) Board members receive CHF 30,000/year for each committee they serve
on and CHF 60,000/year for each committee they chair.
13 Remuneration for serving as Vice-Chairman of the Board.
14 Prorated remuneration for the period from March to December 2015.
15 Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 398,324 (including the Chairman) was paid that does not form part of compensation.
Retrospective approvals of the Chairman’s total aggregate bonus (in CHF) *
Proposal AGM 2017 AGM 2016 AGM 2015
Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for
financial year 2016 financial year 2015 financial year 2014
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/
approved by the AGM 558,390** 558,390 ** 3,350,340 ***
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV.
** Bonus award (in form of shares blocked for 10 years [calculation of number of shares based on the share price at the date of transfer in April 2017/
April 2016, respectively after approval at the AGM 2017/ AGM 2016, respectively], calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to
blocking period of 10 years [reduced market value: 55.839%] to be submitted for shareholder approval at the AGM 2017/ as approved at the AGM
2016, respectively).
*** Includes Dr Franz B. Humer’s bonus as the former Chairman.
4.6.2 Submission of the Board’s total aggregate Dr Severin Schwan’s remuneration as shown in 5.3
future remuneration for a binding shareholder vote which he receives in his function as CEO Roche
The Board of Directors proposes that the 2017 Group and member of the Corporate Executive
ordinary AGM approve Board remuneration totalling Committee is not included here but is part of the
not more than CHF 10,000,000 (excluding legally Corporate Executive Committee’s total remuneration.
required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
and excluding bonuses) for the period ending at the
2018 ordinary AGM.Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
Prospective approvals of the Board’s total aggregate future remuneration (in CHF)* Security holdings (shares and NES)
Proposal AGM 2017 AGM 2016 AGM 2015 (as at 31 December 2016) (as at 31 December 2015)
Aggregate amount Aggregate amount Aggregate amount Close relatives’ Close relatives’
security security
for the period for the period for the period
Shares NES holdings Others Shares NES holdings Others
AGM 2017–AGM 2018 AGM 2016–AGM 2017 AGM 2015–AGM 2016 (number) (number) (number/type) (number) (number) (number) (number/type) (number)
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/ Board of Directors
approved by the AGM 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000 Ch. Franz 7,639 4,810 – – 3,663 350 – –
A. Hoffmann – * 200 – – – * 200 – –
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses.
P. Baschera 1 4,600 – – 1 4,600 – –
J. Bell 300 1,647 – – 300 1,647 – –
J. Brown – – – – n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
4.6.3 Reconciliation of the reported remuneration For comparison from 2015 ordinary AGM to P. Bulcke – 2,500 – – – 2,500 – –
with the shareholders’ approved remuneration for ordinary 2016 AGM actual remuneration amounted to R.P. Lifton – – – – – – – –
the members of the Board of Directors CHF 8,623,576 (excluding legally required employer’s A. Oeri – * 187,793 – – – * 187,793 – –
The 2015 ordinary AGM approved Board remuneration contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses). B. Poussot – – – – – – – –
totalling not more than CHF 10,000,000 (excluding S. Schwan See ‘5.16 Security holdings’ See ‘5.16 Security holdings’
legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ Corporate Executive Committee on page 148 Corporate Executive Committee on page 148
ALV and excluding bonuses) for the period ending at C. Süssmuth Dyckerhoff – 621 ** – – n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
the 2016 ordinary AGM. P.R. Voser – 5,000 – – – 3,600 – –
Retired Board
members
Prospectively approved total remuneration for the members of the Board of Directors in comparison to the actual total (retired in March 2016)
payments made (in CHF) * D. Julius n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 350 2,050 – –
B. Weder di Mauro n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 200 800 – –
Total remuneration Total remuneration Total remuneration
for the period for the period for the period Total 7,940 207,171 – – 4,514 203,540 – –
AGM 2016–AGM 2017 AGM 2015–AGM 2016 AGM 2014–AGM 2015
n.a. – not applicable
Maximum of total remuneration approved by the AGM 10,000,000 10,000,000 11,000,000 * Shares held by the shareholder group with pooled voting rights not listed.
Actual total remuneration paid Calculation at end of period 8,623,576 10,364,027 ** Jointly hold with close relative.
Within the approved limit Calculation at end of period Yes Yes
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses.
4.7 Security holdings Statements (‘Related parties’, page 109) and in Note 4
Directors André Hoffmann and Dr Andreas Oeri to the Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd
and members of the founders’ families who are (‘Significant shareholders’, page 151). In addition,
closely associated with them belong to a contractually as at 31 December 2016 (as at 31 December 2015,
bound shareholder group with pooled voting rights. respectively) the members of the Board of Directors
At the end of 2016 this group held 72,018,000 shares and persons closely associated with them held shares
(45.01% of issued shares). Detailed information and non-voting equity securities (NES) as shown in
about this group can be found in the Finance Report, the table ‘Security holdings’ below.
Note 30 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial
138 139Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
5. Remuneration of the Corporate
Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive Committee (in CHF)
Executive Committee
2016 2015 18
Base salary 4,000,000 4,000,000
S-SARs 19 2,666,711 2,600,270
5.1 Resolution and approval the Remuneration Committee and to the Board of RSUs 20 (Restricted Stock Units) – 781,658 *
Remuneration of the members of the Corporate Directors are outlined on pages 127, ‘2. Remuneration Pension funds/MGB 21/insurances 561,576 ** 563,879 **
Executive Committee was decided at the decision process and approval framework’. Roche Connect 100,008 100,008
Remuneration Committee’s discretion, taking into Subtotal 7,328,295 8,045,815
account market comparisons. In 2016, members of the Corporate Executive Bonus (subject to approval of the total aggregate bonuses for the Corporate Executive Committee
Committee received remuneration for their work by Annual General Meeting 2017)
As in the previous year, in 2017, the Board of Directors as shown in 5.3–5.12. The amount of remuneration — Blocked non-voting equity securities/shares 2,791,950 22* 3,126,984 *
will separately submit the total aggregate bonuses of for the CEO Roche Group, Dr Severin Schwan, is PSP 1,489,025 23* 744,485 24*
the Corporate Executive Committee to the General explained in 5.3 in detail. Other payments: expense allowance/for tax consulting services 33,186 32,586
Meeting for the 2016 financial year for retrospectively Total 11,642,456 25 11,949,870
binding approval. 5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin
* C alculation of value of non-voting equity securities/shares in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years (reduced market
Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive value: 55.839%).
The maximum amounts of the total aggregate Committee ** Including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts.
18 For detailed calculation of the remuneration for 2015 and 2014 see Annual Report 2015, page 178.
remuneration of the Corporate Executive Committee Dr Severin Schwan, executive member of the Board 19 Number of S-SARs 2016: 89,517, grant value according to the trinomial model for American call options: CHF 29.79. Trinomial model for American call
for the period between the ordinary General Meeting of Directors, received his remuneration in his primary options value as described in ‘5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee’,
page 142.
2017 and the ordinary General Meeting 2018 will be function as CEO Roche Group. It is reflected as the Number of S-SARs 2015: 59,997, grant value according to the trinomial model for American call options: CHF 43.34. Trinomial model for American call
tabled in 2017 as in the previous year for the General highest total remuneration paid to a member of the options value as described in ‘5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee’,
page 142.
Meeting’s prospectively binding approval (see 2.2). Corporate Executive Committee (see below) and 20 Since 2016, members of the Corporate Executive Committee do not receive RSUs anymore, they are replaced by awarding of corresponding PSPs.
included in the total amount paid to the Corporate Number of RSUs 2015: 5,466, grant value CHF 256.10 (NES closing price at grant date on 5 March 2015) per RSU.
21 M GB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing occupational
5.2 Amount of remuneration to members of the Executive Committee (see ‘5.12 Total remuneration pension benefits).
Corporate Executive Committee paid to the members of the Corporate Executive 22 Shares blocked for 10 years (calculation of number of shares based on the share price at the date of transfer in April 2017 after approval at the
AGM 2017).
The general provisions assigning authority for decisions Committee’, page 146). 23 Target number of bearer shares for PSP 2016–2018 (9,968 bearer shares) multiplied per bearer share price averaged over the three months (October
on Corporate Executive Committee remuneration to to December 2015) prior to the start of the performance cycle 2016–2018, CHF 267.52/bearer share.
24 Target number of bearer shares for PSP 2015–2017 (4,872 bearer shares) multiplied per bearer share price averaged over the three months (October
to December 2014) prior to the start of the performance cycle 2015–2017, CHF 273.66/bearer share.
25 Includes an annual expense allowance (CHF 30,000) and payments for tax consulting services (CHF 3,186; 2015: CHF 2,586). Additionally, employer
contribution to AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 612,119 was paid that does not form part of compensation.
140 141
DETIDUA
Base pay (in CHF)
2016 2015
R. Diggelmann 1,300,000 1,275,000
A. Hippe 1,600,000 1,600,000
G. A. Keller 1,500,000 1,500,000
D. O’Day 2,500,000 2,375,000
C. A. Wilbur 686,668 * n.a.
S. Ayyoubi (retired from the Corporate Executive Committee in March 2016) 750,000 1,200,000
Total 8,336,668 7,950,000
n.a. – not applicable
* Base pay 2016 including prorated remuneration for the period from March to December 2016 as member of the Corporate Executive Committee.
DETIDUA
5.4 Base pay of the other members of the Corporate Executive CommitteeRoche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
Bonus (in CHF)
2016 2015
(subject to approval of the
total aggregate bonuses of the
Corporate Executive Committee by
the Annual General Meeting 2017)
R. Diggelmann 1,250,000 1,400,000
A. Hippe 1,900,000 2,100,000
G. A. Keller 1,300,000 1,400,000
D. O’Day 3,000,000 3,100,000
C. A. Wilbur 850,000 * n.a.
S. Ayyoubi (retired from the Corporate Executive Committee in March 2016) 800 000 1,600,000
Total 9,100,000 9,600,000
n.a. – not applicable
* Prorated remuneration for the period from March to December 2016.
142 143
DETIDUA
5.5 Bonuses of the other members of the Corporate Except for Dr Severin Schwan, all members of the Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) (in CHF)
Executive Committee Corporate Executive Committee will receive the
S-SARs S-SARs
The Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors bonus 2016 as a 100% cash payment which is due 2016 2015
determined the Corporate Executive Committee in April 2017. Dr Severin Schwan will receive the R. Diggelmann 866,889 780,380
members’ bonuses based on the performance 2016 bonus in form of Roche shares which are blocked A. Hippe 1,066,810 1,040,290
against the agreed objectives. The total aggregate for 10 years. Bonus payment is due in April 2017 G. A. Keller 1,000,050 975,280
amount of bonuses will be brought forward for a (see page 141). D. O’Day 1,666,751 1,300,200
binding vote by the Annual General Meeting 2017. C. A. Wilbur 456,949 n.a.
S. Ayyoubi (retired from the Corporate Executive Committee in March 2016) 800,010 * 780,380
Total 5,857,459 4,876,530
n.a. – not applicable
* Grant 2016: 26,855 S-SARs, grant value CHF 29.79 per S-SARs, price CHF 251,50, expiry date 3.3.2023.
5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights The fair value of the S-SARs is calculated at the
(S-SARs) of the other members of the Corporate grant date using the trinomial model for American
Executive Committee options. The trinomial model is an effective method
The S-SARs shown in the 5.16.2 ‘S-SARs’ table on for valuation of American call options, as it considers
page 149 entitle holders to benefit financially from the possibility of exercising the option any time prior
any increase in the value of Roche’s non-voting equity to maturity (called ‘American’ option, as compared to
securities (NES) between the grant date and the a ‘European’ option, which only allows exercise at
exercise date. The strike price for S-SARs under the their maturity date).26
terms of this multi-year plan was the closing price for
Roche NES at grant date. All S-SARs vest three years The numbers of S-SARs, the strike prices, expiry dates
after the grant date. Vested S-SARs can be exercised and grant values for S-SARs are shown in the 5.16.2
(converted into NES) within seven years of the grant ‘S-SARs’ table on page 149. The numbers of S-SARs as
date. Unexercised S-SARs lapse without compensation. calculated at the time of issue have been entered as
values in the table on pages 143 and 141.27
DETIDUA
5.7 Restricted Stock Units of the other members awards are allocated individually at the Remuneration
of the Corporate Executive Committee Committee’s discretion and will be vested to the
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)—rights to receive recipient after three years only. Thereafter, resulting
non-voting equity securities after a three-year vesting non-voting equity securities may remain blocked for
period plus a value adjustment (being the amount up to 10 years.
equivalent to the sum of the dividend paid during
the vesting period attributable to the number of non- In 2016, RSUs as remuneration component for the
voting equity securities for which an individual award Corporate Executive Committee were replaced by
has been granted)—were introduced in 2013 as a new awarding of corresponding PSPs. Therefore, the
remuneration component partially replacing S-SARs. variable long-term incentive programmes for the
The value of S-SAR awards was reduced to 65% and Corporate Executive Committee comprise PSP awards
the 35% balance is awarded in the form of RSUs. RSU and S-SARs, approximately 50% each.
Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
2016 2015
(number) (value in CHF) (number) (value in CHF)
R. Diggelmann 1,639 419,748
A. Hippe Since 2016 for Corporate 2,186 312,606 *
G. A. Keller Executive Committee 2,049 293,015 *
D. O’Day replaced by award of 2,733 699,921
C. A. Wilbur corresponding PSPs n.a. n.a.
S. Ayyoubi (retired from the Corporate Executive Committee in March 2016) 1,639 332,478 **
Total 10,246 2 057,768
n.a. – not applicable
* Calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to an additional blocking period of 10 years, reduced market value: 55.839%.
** Calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to an additional blocking period of 4 years, reduced market value: 79.209%.
Calculation of value 2015: Number of RSUs 2015 multiplied by grant value of CHF 256.10 (NES closing price at grant date on 5 March 2015) per RSU.
26 For further information on the trinomial model for American options: Please refer to Boyle, Phelim P.: ‘A lattice framework for options pricing with two state
variables’, The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Volume 23, Issue 1 (Mar 1988), 1–12, roche.com/trinomial-model.pdf
27 See strike prices in table 5.16.2 ‘S-SARs’, page 149.
DETIDUA
5.8 Performance Share Plan (PSP) of the other senior management participated in the Performance
members of the Corporate Executive Committee Share Plan.
Starting in 2016, PSP awards as a remuneration
component are reserved for the Corporate Executive The PSP consists of overlapping three-year
Committee and the Enlarged Corporate Executive performance cycles, with a new cycle beginning each
Committee while in previous years other members of year. In 2016, there were thus three cycles in progressRoche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
(PSP 2014–2016, PSP 2015–2017 and 2016–2018), securities or bearer shares for which an individual Performance Share Plan (PSP)
whereas PSP 2014–2016 closed on 31 December 2016 award has been granted) and requires that Roche
with none of the targeted NES awarded (PSP 2013– securities perform as well as or better than those of 2016 2015
Fair value at grant Fair value at grant
2015 [per 31 December 2015]: 50% of the targeted NES 75% of the peer set. In the event that an investment in
per bearer share, per bearer share,
awarded; PSP 2012–2014 [per 31 December 2014]: Roche securities underperforms the average return bearer share bearer share
prices averaged prices averaged
175% of the targeted NES awarded). For the historical delivered by the peer companies, fewer or no NES or
over the three over the three
PSP performance see 3.1.5). bearer shares will be awarded. months (October to months (October to
December 2015) December 2014)
prior to the Fair value of prior to the Fair Value at
Under the provisions of this plan, a number of In 2016, bearer shares were reserved under the plan Target number start of the target number of Target number of start of the target number of
of bearer shares performance cycle bearer shares for bearer shares for performance cycle bearer shares for
non-voting equity securities (NES) or bearer shares for members of the Corporate Executive Committee
for PSP 2016–2018 PSP 2016–2018 PSP 2016–2018 PSP 2015–2017 PSP 2015–2017 PSP 2015–2017
have been reserved for the participants in each cycle. as shown in the table on page 145 and on page 141. (number) (value in CHF) (value in CHF) (number) (value in CHF) (value in CHF)
The number of securities actually awarded will depend The Board of Directors will decide on the actual level R. Diggelmann 3,239 267.52 866,497 1,461 273.66 399,817
on whether and to what extent an investment in Roche of NES, bearer shares or cash equivalent awards for A. Hippe 3,987 267.52 844,845 * 1,948 273.66 533,090
securities (shares and NES) outperforms the average the PSP cycles 2015–2017 and 2016–2018 after the G.A. Keller 3,738 267.52 999,990 1,827 273.66 499,977
return on an investment in securities issued by a peer close of the 2017 and 2018 financial years, respectively. D. O’Day 6,230 267.52 1,666,650 2,436 273.66 666,636
set of peer companies.28 Comparisons are based on The aim of the PSP is to provide an incentive to C. A. Wilbur 1,706 267.52 456,389 n.a. n.a. n.a.
the securities’ market prices and dividend yields, ie, participants to achieve long-term value growth. S. Ayyoubi ** 997 267.52 211,264 * 1,461 273.66 399,817
on Total Shareholder Return (TSR). To reduce the Total 19,897 267.52 5,045,635 9,133 273.66 2,499,337
effect of short-term market fluctuations, security prices At the end of the PSP 2014–2016 cycle (based on a
n.a. – not applicable
are averaged over the three months (October to three-month average) with distributed dividends
* Calculation of value of non-voting equity securities/shares in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 4 years (reduced market
December) prior to the start of a performance cycle totalling CHF 20.616 billion (2016: CHF 6.987 billion; value: 79.209%).
** Retired from the Corporate Executive Committee in March 2016.
and over the three months (October to December) at 2015: CHF 6.901 billion; 2014: CHF 6.728 billion),
the end of the cycle. according to the terms of the plan, the participants
received none of the originally targeted NES.
If Roche securities perform better than the average of
the peer set, the Board of Directors can elect to increase In 2016 for the first time, RSUs for the Corporate
the NES or bearer shares award. The maximum award Executive Committee were replaced by awarding of
is double the original-level reserved target number of corresponding PSPs. Therefore, the long-term incentive
NES or bearer shares according to the PSP plan (plus a programmes for the Corporate Executive Committee
value adjustment being the amount equivalent to the comprise PSP and S-SAR awards, approximately
sum of the dividend paid during the vesting period 50% each.
attributable to the number of non-voting equity
144 145
DETIDUA
5.9 Indirect benefits of the other members of Roche Connect is a voluntary stock purchase plan
the Corporate Executive Committee offering employees the opportunity to buy Roche
Employer contributions made in 2016 to social non-voting equity securities (NES) up to an amount
security schemes, pension plans and a Group-wide equal to 10% of their annual salary at a 20% discount.
employee stock purchase plan (Roche Connect) NES purchased under this plan are subject to a
in respect of members of the Corporate Executive holding period, which is four years in Switzerland.
Committee are shown in the ‘Indirect benefits
(employer contributions)’ table on page 146 and In addition, members of the Corporate Executive
employer contributions as shown in the table on Committee received annual expense allowances and
page 141. some members payments for foreign tax obligations
and tax consulting services as shown in the table on
page 146.
28 See footnote 1, page 127.Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
Indirect benefits (employer contributions) (in CHF)
2016 2015
Pension Payments Pension Payments
funds/ Annual for tax/tax funds/ Annual for tax/tax
MGB 29/ expense Roche consulting MGB 29/ expense Roche consulting
insurances * allowances Connect services insurances * allowances Connect services
R. Diggelmann 311,576 30,000 15,000 – 313,879 30,000 – –
A. Hippe 311,576 30,000 39,996 11,818 313,879 30,000 39,996 16,556
G. A. Keller 98,384 30,000 37,500 – 98,969 30,000 37,500 –
D. O’Day 311,576 30,000 56,244 915,793 313,879 30,000 49,992 696,433
C. A. Wilbur 242,084 30,000 9,372 28,508 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
S. Ayyoubi ** 88,175 30,000 15,000 3,024 98,969 30,000 15,000 3,888
Total 1,363,371 180,000 173,112 959,143 1,139,575 150,000 142,488 716,877
n.a. – not applicable
* Including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts.
** R etired from the Corporate Executive Committee in March 2016.
29 MGB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing occupational
pension benefits).
146 147
DETIDUA
5.10 Other remuneration and loans of members of 5.12 Total remuneration paid to the members of
the Corporate Executive Committee the Corporate Executive Committee
Based on contractual obligations, in 2016, Roche paid For the 2016 calendar year, the members of
to individual members of the Corporate Executive the Corporate Executive Committee received
Committee for their children’s schooling costs remuneration including bonuses totalling
totalling CHF 42,300 (2015: CHF 68,340). CHF 42,700,144 (2015: CHF 41,150,785), excluding
additional employer’s contribution paid to AHV/IV/
All aforementioned additional payments are included ALV totalling CHF 1,972,422 (2015: CHF 3,688,642)
in the total remuneration to members of the that does not form part of compensation.
Corporate Executive Committee.
No additional remuneration other than the above
In 2016, there are no loans or credits granted to the mentioned payments was paid to current or former
members of the Corporate Executive Committee. members of the Corporate Executive Committee.
The maximum regular period of notice for members 5.13 Executive remuneration subject to approval
of the Corporate Executive Committee is 12 months. at the Annual General Meeting
There are no change-of-control clauses in the
employment contracts. 5.13.1 Submission of Executive total aggregate
bonuses for a binding vote at the Annual
5.11 Remuneration to former members of the General Meeting
Corporate Executive Committee The Board of Directors proposes awarding the members
In 2016, pensions totalling CHF 2,049,180 (2015: of the Corporate Executive Committee bonuses (for
CHF 2,049,180) were paid to former Corporate Dr Severin Schwan in form of Roche shares which
Executive Committee members. are blocked for 10 years, for all other members of
the Corporate Executive Committee as a 100% cash
payment, see 5.5) totalling CHF 11,891,950 in respect
of the 2016 financial year (2015: CHF 12,726,984),
excluding legally required employer’s contributions
to AHV/IV/ALV, and will submit this proposed total
amount to the ordinary Annual General Meeting
(AGM) 2017 for a binding vote.
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
Retrospective approvals of the members of the Executive Committee’s total aggregate bonuses (in CHF) *
Proposal AGM 2017 AGM 2016 AGM 2015
Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for
financial year 2016 financial year 2015 financial year 2014
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/
approved by the AGM 11,891,950 12,726,984 10,440,136
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV.
5.13.2 Submission of Executive total future aggregate incentives S-SARs (calculated at grant value without
remuneration for a binding shareholder vote considering reductions of value due to blocking
The Board of Directors proposes that the 2017 periods if applicable) and PSP (calculated at the time
ordinary AGM approves remuneration for the of reservation of non-voting equity securities or shares
Corporate Executive Committee totalling not more and taking into account their maximal potential to
than CHF 41,000,000 (excluding legally required double, without considering reductions of value due to
employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and blocking periods), contributions to pension benefits
excluding bonuses) for the period ending at the 2018 (excluding legally required employer’s contributions to
ordinary AGM. AHV/IV/ ALV) as well as contributions for expenses,
payments for foreign tax obligations, tax consulting
The amount of Executive total future aggregate services and Roche Connect.
remuneration is composed of base pay, long-term
Prospective approvals of the members of the Executive Committee’s total future aggregate remuneration (in CHF) *
Proposal AGM 2017 AGM 2016 AGM 2015
Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for
the period the period the period
AGM 2017–AGM 2018 AGM 2016–AGM 2017 AGM 2015–AGM 2016
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/
approved by the AGM 41,000,000 41,000,000 37,000,000
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses.
5.13.3 Reconciliation of the reported remuneration excluding bonuses) for the period ending at the 2016
with the shareholders’ prospectively approved ordinary AGM.
remuneration for the members of the Corporate
Executive Committee For comparison, from 2015 ordinary AGM to ordinary
The 2015 ordinary AGM approved remuneration for 2016 AGM remuneration amounted to CHF 33,938,257
the Corporate Executive Committee totalling not (excluding legally required employer’s contributions
more than CHF 37,000,000 (excluding legally required to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses. PSP:
employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and Assumption of maximum value).Roche | Remuneration Report Remuneration Report | Roche
Prospectively approved total remuneration of the members of the Executive Committee in comparison to total 5.16.1 Shares and non-voting equity securities (NES)
remuneration (in CHF) *
(as at 31 December 2016) (as at 31 December 2015)
Total remuneration Total remuneration Total remuneration Close relatives’ Close relatives’
for the period for the period for the period Shares NES security holdings Shares NES security holdings
AGM 2016–AGM 2017 AGM 2015–AGM 2016 AGM 2014–AGM 2015 (number) (number) (number/type) (number) (number) (number/type)
Maximum of total remuneration approved by the AGM 41,000,000 37,000,000 36,000,000 Corporate Executive Committee
Total remuneration Calculation at end of period 33,938,257 34,004,297 ** S. Schwan 138,011 29,836 – 115,745 16,179 –
Within the approved limit Calculation at end of period Yes Yes R. Diggelmann – 5,776 – – 870 –
Additional amount paid for new members of the A. Hippe 6,970 13,305 – 6,970 9,370 –
Corporate Executive Committee after approval by G.A. Keller 19,191 18,277 1,100 shares 19,192 12,897 1,100 shares
the AGM and not within the approved total amount No No No D. O’Day 3,065 12,896 – 3,065 8,143 –
C. A. Wilbur – 1,714 – n.a. n.a. n.a.
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses.
** Due to no award of NES under the PSP 2014-2016 cycle and their originally included calculation of 200% (maximum possible award), the amount of the S. Ayyoubi * n.a. n.a. n.a. 12,622 13,223 –
total remuneration for the period AGM 2014-AGM 2015 is reduced to CHF 26,472,255.
Total 167,237 81,804 1,100 shares 157,594 60,682 1,100 shares
n.a. – not applicable
* Retired from the Corporate Executive Committee in March 2016.
5.14 Clawback According to the regulations of the PSP programme,
In addition to applicable statutory provisions, the originally targeted but not awarded NES or shares
Roche’s long-term incentive plans include the option shall lapse without any compensation upon notice of 5.16.2 S-SARs
to partially reclaim distributed compensation as a termination of employment being given for any reason
result of special circumstances (clawback). other than redundancy, disability or retirement. Number of S-SARs held on 31 December 2016
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
If the employee voluntarily serves notice of 5.15 Guidelines for security holdings Corporate Executive Committee
termination of employment, S-SARs and RSUs which In 2012, the Board of Directors decided that the S. Schwan 89,517 59,997 54,453 71,472 – –
are unvested at the date of termination of employment CEO Roche Group and other CEC members must R. Diggelmann 29,100 18,006 16,338 17,874 15,000 12,732
lapse immediately without any compensation. acquire shares and/or NES equivalent to two annual A. Hippe 35,811 24,003 21,783 28,590 – –
base salaries (CEO Roche Group) and one annual G. A. Keller 33,570 22,503 20,424 26,805 15,000 –
Upon termination of employment as a result of base salary, respectively, by the end of 2016 and retain D. O’Day 55,950 30,000 27,231 35,739 – –
seriousmisconduct all S-SARs and RSUs granted and these holdings for as long as they serve on the CEC. C.A. Wilbur 15,339 4,164 5,754 4,594 2,122 –
outstanding, whether vested or unvested, shall lapse With the exception of Cristina A. Wilbur who joined Total 259,287 158,673 145,983 185,074 32,122 12,732
immediately without any compensation. According the Corporate Executive Committee in 2016 and who
to the S-SARs plan rules, serious misconduct by the must fulfil the requirement by the end of 2020, all Price (CHF) 251.50 256.10 263.20 214.00 157.50 140.10
participant may include (inter alia): other members of the Corporate Executive Committee Market price per NES on 232.60
• activity leading to serious disciplinary action fulfil this requirement. 31 December 2016 (CHF)
• repeated or willful failure to perform such duties Expiry date 3.3.2023 5.3.2022 6.3.2021 7.3.2020 8.3.2019 28.2.2018
as have been reasonably assigned by Roche 5.16 Security holdings Grant value per S-SAR (CHF) 29.79 43.34 * 47.75 * 36.38 * 24.41 * 15.38 *
• violation of any law or public regulation As at 31 December 2016 (as at 31 December 2015, Since 1.1.2012:
• commission of a crime respectively) the members of the CEC and persons — Trinomial model for American
• gross negligence or willful misconduct in closely associated with them held securities as shown call options
employment in the table ‘Shares and non-voting equity securities * V alues according to
• engaging in conduct bringing disgrace or disrepute (NES)’, ‘S-SARs’, ‘Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)’ below. corresponding annual reports
to Roche and/or any of its subsidiaries
• violation of any of Roche’s directives and guidelines
relating to business conduct
Type of security Value to be acquired
CEO Roche Group Shares and/or NES 2 × annual base salary
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee Shares and/or NES 1 × annual base salary
148 149Roche | Remuneration Report Statutory Auditor’s Report | Roche
5.16.3 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
Number of RSUs held on 31 December 2016
2016 2015 2014
Corporate Executive To the General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
Committee
S. Schwan 5,466 5,551
R. Diggelmann Since 2016 for Corporate 1,639 1,665 We have audited the accompanying remuneration An audit involves performing procedures to obtain
A. Hippe Executive Committee 2,186 2,220 report of Roche Holding Ltd for the year ended audit evidence on the disclosures made in the
replaced by award of
G. A. Keller 2,049 2,081 31 December 2016. The audit was limited to the remuneration report with regard to compensation,
corresponding PSPs
D. O’Day 2,733 2,775 information according to articles 14–16 of the loans and credits in accordance with articles 14–16 of
C.A. Wilbur 379 585 Ordinance against Excessive Compensation in Stock the Ordinance. The procedures selected depend on
1,106 Exchange Listed Companies (the Ordinance) contained the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of
Total 14,452 15,983 in the sections marked with a blue line, including the risks of material misstatements in the remuneration
Grant value per RSU CHF 256.10 CHF 252.19 the respective footnotes, on pages 124 to 150 of the report, whether due to fraud or error. This audit also
(NES closing price at grant date (NES average market price over a remuneration report. includes evaluating the reasonableness of the methods
on 5 March 2015) 90 days period prior to grant date
applied to value components of remuneration, as
on 6 March 2014)
well as assessing the overall presentation of the
Responsibility of the Board of Directors
remuneration report.
CHF 271.23
(NES average market price over a The Board of Directors is responsible for the
90 days period prior to grant date on preparation and overall fair presentation of the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained
30 October 2014) remuneration report in accordance with Swiss law is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
and the Ordinance. The Board of Directors is also our opinion.
responsible for designing the remuneration system
and defining individual remuneration packages.
Opinion
In our opinion, the remuneration report for the
Auditor’s Responsibility
year ended 31 December 2016 of Roche Holding Ltd
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the complies with Swiss law and articles 14–16 of
accompanying remuneration report. We conducted our the Ordinance.
audit in accordance with Swiss Auditing Standards.
Those Standards require that we comply with ethical
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the remuneration
report complies with Swiss law and articles 14–16 of
the Ordinance.
KPMG AG
Ian Starkey Marc Ziegler
Licensed Audit Expert Licensed Audit Expert
Auditor in Charge
Basel, 24 January 2017
KPMG AG, Viaduktstrasse 42, PO Box 3456, CH-4002 Basel
KPMG AG is a subsidiary of KPMG Holding AG, which is a member of the KPMG network of independent firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative
(“KPMG International”), a Swiss legal entity. All rights reserved.
150 151Roche | Independent Assurance Report Independent Assurance Report | Roche
perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance • Inspection of documentation and analysis of relevant
on the identified sustainability information. policies and principles
Inspecting relevant documentation on a sample basis,
A limited assurance engagement under ISAE 3000 (revised) including Roche Group sustainability policies, management
is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance of reporting structures and documentation;
Independent Assurance Report on the engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, Inspecting the principles of the Roche materiality process
including an understanding of internal control, and the providing the definition for the development of its adherence
procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. to GRI’s environmental, social and economic reporting
Roche Sustainability Reporting 2016
Consequently, the nature, timing and extent of procedures requirements addressing the soundness of the identification
for gathering sufficient appropriate evidence are deliberately process, determination of impacted stakeholders, peer and
limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement and competition review, integration of relevant regulatory
To the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee • the Roche Group internal Sustainability Reporting therefore less assurance is obtained with a limited assurance requirements, integration of key organisational values and
of Roche Holding AG, Basel. guidelines based on the Responsible Care Health, Safety and engagement than for a reasonable assurance engagement. objectives and report prioritisation of material aspects; and
Environmental Protection reporting guidelines published by Inspecting the integration of the sustainability risks and
We have been engaged to perform assurance procedures to the European Chemical Industry Council CEFIC and the The procedures selected depend on the assurance opportunities in the Group Risk Management Process and
provide limited assurance on the aspects of the 2016 ‘Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4’ published in 2013 practitioner’s judgement. its adherence to the internal guidelines;
Sustainability Reporting of Roche Holding AG, Basel and its by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI); • Assessment of the processes and data consolidation
consolidated sub-sidiaries (‘Roche’) included in the Annual • the Roche Group internal Corporate Reporting Manual, Our Independence and Quality Control Reviewing the management of/and Sustainability Reporting
Report 2016 (‘Report’). Version 2016.9 ‘Sustainability Reporting Guidance—Economic We have complied with the independence and other ethical processes for SHE, contributions and people key figures; and
Performance’ requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants Assessing the consolidation process of data at Roche Group level.
Scope and Subject matter • the Roche materiality determination process at corporate issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for
Our limited assurance engagement focused on the following level based on the ‘Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4’ Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of We have not conducted any work on data other than outlined in
data and information disclosed in the Sustainability Reporting published in 2013 by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI); integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, the subject matter as defined above. We believe that the evidence
of Roche for the year ended on December 31, 2016: • the defined guidelines, by which SHE, people and contributions confidentiality and professional behaviour. we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
• the management of reporting processes with respect to the key figures, and sustainability risks and opportunities are for our assurance conclusions.
Sustainability Reporting in all material aspects and the internally gathered, collated and aggregated. Our firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1
preparation of Safety, Security, Health and Environmental and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality Conclusion
protection (‘SHE’), people key figures as well as the related Inherent Limitations control including documented policies and procedures regarding Based on our work performed and described in this report on the
control environment in relation to the data aggregation of The accuracy and completeness of sustainability indicators are compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards identified Roche’ Sustainability Reporting 2016 nothing has come
these key figures; subject to inherent limitations given their nature and methods and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. to our attention causing us to believe that in all material respects:
• the materiality determination process of Roche at group level for determining, calculating and estimating such data. Our • the Roche Group internal sustainability reporting guidelines
according to the requirements of the GRI G4 guidelines and assurance report should therefore be read in connection with Summary of work performed based on the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines as
disclosed on pages 2 and 3 of the Report; Roche’s internal guidelines, definitions and procedures on the Our assurance procedures included, amongst others, the well as the CEFIC Guidelines are not applied;
• the design of the sustainability risks and opportunities reporting of its sustainability performance. following work: • the Roche materiality determination process at corporate
determination process based on Roche corporate-level • Evaluation of the application of Roche Group guidelines level as disclosed does not adhere to the principles and guiding
activities, disclosed on page 2 in the paragraph ‘Risk Roche’s Responsibilities Reviewing the application of the Roche Group internal factors (e.g. soundness, stakeholder determination, peer review,
Management’ of the Report; The Roche Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee corporate sustainability and contributions guidelines; relevance of regulatory environment, integration of key
• people key figures disclosed on pages 70 to 75 of the Report is responsible for both the subject matter and the criteria as well • Site visits and management inquiry organisational values and objectives) defined with GRI G4;
and the SHE key figures (including greenhouse gas emissions as for selection, preparation and presentation of the selected Visiting selected sites of Roche’s Pharmaceuticals and • the design of the sustainability risks and opportunities
for scope 1 & 2 and scope 3 resulting from business travel, information in accordance with the criteria. This responsibility Diagnostics divisions in the USA, Germany, Japan, Vietnam determination process at corporate level as disclosed does
compressed air, liquid nitrogen and waste generated in includes the design, implementation and maintenance of related and Indonesia. The selection was based on quantitative and not function as designed;
operations) in the tables and graphs on pages 80 to 87 of internal control relevant to this reporting process that is free qualitative criteria; • the internal reporting processes to collect and aggregate SHE
the Report; and from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Interviewing personnel responsible for internal sustainability and people data are not functioning as designed and provide
• the consolidated data and information on the Roche Group reporting and data collection at the sites we visited and at an appropriate basis for its disclosure;
level in relation to the contributions breakdown, disclosed Our Responsibility the Roche Group level to determine the understanding and • the internal reporting processes to collect and aggregate
on pages 104 and 105 of the Report. Our responsibility is to form an independent opinion, based on application of Roche’s internal sustainability guidelines; contributions data are not functioning as designed and provide
our limited assurance procedures, on whether anything has come • Assessment of the key figures an appropriate basis for its disclosure; and
We have not carried out any work on data re-ported for prior to our attention to indicate that the identified sustainability Performing tests on a sample basis of evidence supporting • the sustainability information mentioned in the subject matter
reporting periods, nor have we performed work in respect of information selected and contained in this report is not stated, in selected SHE, contributions and people key figures (ie, Roche and disclosed within the Sustainability Reporting in the Roche
projections and targets. all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. accident rate, energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions Annual Report 2016 is not stated, in accordance with the
related to energy consumption, halogenated hydrocarbons, reporting criteria.
Criteria We planned and performed our procedures in accordance water, waste, contributions to healthcare institutions, patient
The management reporting processes with respect to the with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements organisations, public policy bodies, and philanthropic Zurich, 24 January 2017
Sustainability Reporting and key figures were prepared by (ISAE 3000) (revised) ‘Assurance engagements other than audits organisations, headcount/FTE data, and training hours) PricewaterhouseCoopers AG
Roche based on the internal policies and procedures as set or reviews of historical financial information’. This standard concerning completeness, accuracy, adequacy and consistency;
forth in the following: requires that we comply with ethical requirements, plan and Christophe Bourgoin Bettina Buomberger
152 153Roche | Imprint Imprint | Roche
Published by Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking The statement regarding earnings per share growth
Key dates for 2017
F.Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd statements is not a profit forecast and should not be interpreted
Group Communications This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking to mean that Roche’s earnings or earnings per share
4070 Basel, Switzerland statements. These forward-looking statements may for 2017 or any subsequent period will necessarily
Annual General Meeting Tel. +41 (0)61 688 11 11 be identified by words such as ‘believes,’ ‘expects,’ match or exceed the historical published earnings or
14 March 2017 www.roche.com ‘anticipates,’ ‘projects,’ ‘intends,’ ‘should,’ ‘seeks,’ earnings per share of Roche.
‘estimates,’ ‘future’ or similar expressions or by
First-quarter sales To order/download publications discussion of, among other things, strategy, goals, All trademarks mentioned enjoy legal protection.
25 April 2017 Internet: roche.com/publications plans or intentions. Various factors may cause actual
E-mail: basel.warehouse-services@roche.com results to differ materially in the future from those Links to third-party pages are provided for convenience
Half-Year results Fax +41 (0)61 688 41 96 reflected in forward-looking statements contained in only. We do not express any opinion on the content
27 July 2017 this Annual Report, among others: (1) pricing and of any third-party pages and expressly disclaim any
Media Relations product initiatives of competitors; (2) legislative and liability for all third-party information and the use of it.
Nine months sales Tel. +41 (0)61 688 88 88 regulatory developments and economic conditions;
19 October 2017 E-mail: roche.mediarelations@roche.com (3)delay or inability in obtaining regulatory approvals The Roche Annual Report is published in German
or bringing products to market; (4) fluctuations in and English.
Investor Relations currency exchange rates and general financial market
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 88 80 conditions; (5) uncertainties in the discovery, Our reporting consists of the actual Annual Report
E-mail: investor.relations@roche.com development or marketing of new products or new and of the Finance Report and contains the annual
uses of existing products, including without limitation financial statements and the consolidated financial
Corporate Sustainability Committee negative results of clinical trials or research projects, statements. With regards to content, the Management
Tel. +41 (0)61 688 40 18 unexpected side effects of pipeline or marketed Report as per the Articles of Incorporation consists of
E-mail: corporate.sustainability@roche.com products; (6) increased government pricing pressures; both aforementioned reports with the exception of the
(7)interruptions in production; (8) loss of or inability Remuneration Report.
to obtain adequate protection for intellectual property
rights; (9) litigation; (10) loss of key executives or Printed on non-chlorine bleached, FSC-certified paper.
other employees; and (11) adverse publicity and
news coverage.
154 155We believe it’s urgent to deliver medical
solutions right now—even as we develop
innovations for the future. We are passionate
about transforming patients’ lives. We are
courageous in both decision and action.
And we believe that good business means
a better world.
That is why we come to work each day.
We commit ourselves to scientific rigour,
unassailable ethics, and access to medical
innovations for all. We do this today to
build a better tomorrow.
We are proud of who we are, what we do,
and how we do it. We are many, working
as one across functions, across companies,
and across the world.
We are Roche.The pictures have been submitted by Roche employees.F.Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd
4070 Basel, Switzerland
© 2017
All trademarks are legally protected.
www.roche.com
7 000 990
Roche
|
Annual
Report
2016
We believe it’s urgent to deliver medical
solutions right now—even as we develop
innovations for the future. We are passionate
about transforming patients’ lives. We are
courageous in both decision and action.
And we believe that good business means
a better world.
That is why we come to work each day.
We commit ourselves to scientific rigour,
unassailable ethics, and access to medical
innovations for all. We do this today to
build a better tomorrow.
We are proud of who we are, what we do,
and how we do it. We are many, working
as one across functions, across companies,
and across the world.
We are Roche.