Roche Annual Report 2005
Business Report
Part1
We Innovate HealthcareInnovative solutions spanning
the healthcare spectrum
Our combined capabilities in diagnostics and pharmaceuticals enable us to meet
needs across the entire healthcare spectrum. From identifying disease suscep-
tibilities and screening for disease in at-risk populations to prevention, diagnosis,
therapy and treatment monitoring, our innovative products are advancing the
fight against disease on a wide range of fronts, and making a real difference for
patients and health professionals.
At Roche our commitment to innovating healthcare is matched by a commitment
to corporate social responsibility. Sustainability is one of our company’s guiding
values. We recognise that economic, social and environmental concerns are inter-
twined and that progress in each of these sectors requires progress in all three.
As a research-intensive company with a long-term strategic focus, Roche strives
to deliver sustainable value to all its major stakeholders.Predisposition Page 8 Table of Contents
‘It’s so good to know my medication
really can help me.’ Business Report 2005
Key figures 2
The year 2005 in brief 3
Letter from the Chairman 4
Roche Group 10
Early detection Page 16
Group results 10
Outlook 10
‘We couldn’t have stood
Group strategy 11
theuncertainty any longer.’
Pharmaceuticals 18
Pharmaceuticals Division in brief 18
Results 19
Therapeutic areas 19
Research and development 25
Prevention Page 42
R&D Pipeline 27
Expanding biotech production
‘The medication helps against
capacity 30
myosteoporosis,and I only have
Access to medicines 30
totake it once amonth.’
Diagnostics 32
Diagnostics Division in brief 32
Results 33
Business areas 33
Diagnosis Page 64 Research and development 39
Key product launches scheduled
‘Suddenly I realised my life for 2006 40
washanging by a thread.’ Access to diagnostics 41
Board of Directors and
Corporate Executive Committee,
Corporate Governance 44
Board of Directors and
Corporate Executive Committee 44
Therapy Pages 70 and 84
Corporate Governance 48
Responsible and
‘The feeling that I had regained
sustainable management 58
control over my disease gave me
ahuge psychological lift.’
Dialogue with our stakeholders 66
Our commitment to employees 72
Our commitment to society 78
Monitoring Page 100
Safety, health and
‘I’ve got my independence back.’ environmental protection 86
Assurance 102
Track record 2005/Outlook 2006 104
The key performance indicators 107
GRI reference list 108
Roche – a Global Market Presence 112
Business Report 2005 1Key figures
Roche Group
2005 2004 % change 2005 2004
(mCHF) (mCHF) (CHF) (LC) as % of sales
Sales1) 35,511 29,522 +20 +19 100 100
Research and development1) 5,705 5,154 +11 +11 16.1 17.5
Operating profit before exceptional items1) 9,025 6,766 +33 +33 25.4 22.9
Net income 6,730 7,063 –5 19.0 23.9
Net cash 11,215 3,909 +187
Equity 41,743 33,283 +25
2005 2004 Change
Equity ratio (in %) 60.2 56.9 +6%
Core earnings per share (in CHF) 7.68 5.72 +34%
Dividend per share2)(in CHF) 2.50 2.00 +25%
Number of employees (at 31 Dec. 2005) 68,218 64,594 +3,624
1) Continuing businesses.
2) Proposed by the Board of Directors.
LC = local currencies.
Price development of non-voting equ ity security (Genussschein) in CHF
200
160
120
80
40
0
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
Roche non-voting equity security (adjusted) Swiss Market Index (rebased)
2 Business Report 2005The year 2005 in brief
Group
• Roche Group increases its sales by 6 billion Swiss francs to a record high
of over 35 billion Swiss francs.
• Operating profit margin up 2.5 percentage points to 25.4%.
• Net income at virtually the same level as the year before, despite income of
2.3 billion Swiss francs in 2004 from the divested consumer health business.
• Group awarded credit ratings of AA+ (Standard & Poor’s) and Aa1
(Moody’s).
• Roche reselected for inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes.
• Board to propose 19th consecutive dividend increase: 25% to 2.50 Swiss
francs per share and non-voting equity security.
Pharmaceuticals
• Pharmaceutical sales advance 25%, four times the global market growth rate.
• Sales of anticancer drugs up 42% to 11 billion Swiss francs, further
strengthening Roche’s market leadership in oncology.
• Tamiflu production expanded significantly to meet huge need for pandemic
readiness supplies.
• Positive results from phase III clinical trials in rheumatoid arthritis and breast,
lung and pancreatic cancers.
Diagnostics
• Roche Diagnostics maintains its global market leadership with sales growth
of 4%.
• Operating profit remains at previous year’s record level; margin down slightly
from 2004.
• Next generation of Accu-Chek diabetes management products launched
worldwide.
Outlook for 2006
• Above-market sales growth, with double-digit increases for the Roche
Group and the Pharmaceuticals Division.
• Core earnings per share growth target in line with sales growth.
Visit http://www.roche.com for additional information on Roche.
All growth rates are based on local currencies.
Operating profit margins are stated before exceptional items.
Business Report 2005 3Letter from the Chairman
Franz B. Humer, Verwaltungsratspräsident und CEO
Your company had an outstanding 2005.Innovative The Diagnostics Division maintained its leadership
Roche medicines and diagnostics helped advance position in a difficult market,but fell slightly short
the fight against serious diseases. Operationally ofits performance goals.
and financially the Group posted strong results,
with substantial market share gains and a further Group operating profit before exceptional items
significant improvement in operating profitability. rose by one-third to a record high of9 billion Swiss
At the General Meeting of Shareholders the Board francs.At 6.7 billion Swiss francs,net income came
of Directors will propose a dividend increase of close to matching the previous year’s figure,despite
25% to 2.50 Swiss francs per share and non-voting income of2.3 billion Swiss francs recorded in 2004
equity security.Ifapproved,this will be theGroup’s from the divested consumer health business. This
nineteenth dividend increase in as many years. strong earnings performance will enable us to con-
tinue investing heavily in research and develop-
Sales by the Roche Group rose 19% in local curren- ment and in expanding our production base.With
cies and for the first time exceeded 35 billion Swiss Group expenditure on research and development
francs. The Pharmaceuticals Division accounted totalling more than 5.5 billion Swiss francs annu-
for most of this increase.Its sales were up 25% for ally,ours isone ofthe world’s most research-inten-
the year,four times the average market growth rate. sive companies. During the next several years we
4 Business Report 2005Letter from the Chairman
will additionally be investing about 2 billion Swiss increase in prescriptions of some of our existing
francs in new biotech manufacturing facilities to drugs. Last year Roche captured the attention of
keep pace with rising demand for our products. health professionals and the public with some
exciting new clinical data.These include data show-
Roche is in excellent financial health. In 2005 we ing that Herceptin can make a significant difference
further strengthened our balance sheet and signifi- in the early-stage treatment of aggressive breast
cantly increased net cash.Over the last three years cancers. In clinical trials involving nearly 13,000
our ratio of equity to total assets has risen steadily women, adding Herceptin to standard therapy
from 40% to 60%.This increased financial strength halved the risk ofcancer recurrence compared with
gives us the strategic flexibility to selectively expand standard therapy alone.And in a trial ofMabThera/
our core pharmaceuticals and diagnostics busi- Rituxan in lymphoma patients, maintenance
nesses.In late 2005 Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s therapy with the drug was shown to increase sur-
awarded Roche credit ratings of AA+ and Aa1, vival so dramatically that the tide may now also
respectively – the second highest ratings assigned be turning in the battle against certain forms of
by these agencies. this disease. A claim like this would have been
unthinkable a few years ago.
For the Pharmaceuticals Division 2005 was the best
year in Roche history. Despite the expiry of the As these examples illustrate, drug research and
US patent on Rocephin, once Roche’s top-selling development does not and should not stop as soon
medicine,the division increased its sales by a truly as a drug is approved in its first indication.Taking
impressive 5.5 billion Swiss francs to over 27 billion the development ofanticancer drugs to a new level
Swiss francs. For the first time ever, seven Roche is one of the core missions of our global research
medicines generated annual sales of more than organisation.
1 billion Swiss francs each – in some cases signifi-
cantly more.The division’s operating profit margin We also made significant progress on projects to
before exceptional items also showed another sig- develop novel biotherapeutics for rheumatoid arthri-
nificant improvement, advancing from 25.0% to tis,a common disease characterised by progressive
27.4%. inflammation, and in most cases progressive
destruction, of the joints. Clinical trial data have
Our powerful oncology portfolio was the key driver confirmed that our top-selling anticancer medi-
behind these superb results. Roche is the only cine, MabThera/Rituxan, offers a completely new
healthcare company with five medicines for cancer approach to treating rheumatoid arthritis. And
on the market that have been shown to increase a product being developed by our Chugai sub-
patient survival. Within the space of just a few division has also been shown in clinical trials to
years,a new generation ofmore targeted,less toxic slow joint damage significantly and dramatically
anticancer medicines have made Roche the global improve the disease’s painful,disabling symptoms.
market leader in oncology. We reinforced this The chances are good, I believe, that Roche will
leadership last year with sales growth of 42%.The soon be a major player in this disease area.
innovative new additions to our oncology portfolio
– Avastin for colorectal cancer and Tarceva for lung Responding to the threat of a potential flu pan-
cancer – are already very well established. demic was one of the year’s greatest challenges.
Roche has acted energetically and responsibly to
New Roche medicines were also launched success- meet increased global demand for its leading
fully in other therapeutic areas,and supplemental influenza drug, Tamiflu. Among other steps, we
approvals for new indications spurred a significant promptly initiated a massive scale-up of pro-
Business Report 2005 5Letter from the Chairman
duction capacity at our own risk and adopted a this DNA microarray test, doctors can gauge a
pricing policy that provides significant discounts patient’s ability to metabolise certain drugs based
on deliveries ofthe drug for pandemic use,and we on the patient’s genetic profile – information which
have given over five million packs ofTamiflu to the can then help guide drug selection and dosing deci-
World Health Organization as a rapid response sions.Additional DNA microarray tests,for cancer
stockpile for use at the epicentre ofa potential pan- screening,are currently in late-stage development.
demic and to help establish regional stockpiles of
the drug.Inaddition,we have granted our first sub- Reflecting the Group’s strong performance, we
licences for production of the drug for pandemic created 3,600 new jobs last year,bringing the total
use and are holding in-depth talks with a dozen number of Roche employees worldwide to over
companies that could provide additional manufac- 68,000. I would like to take this opportunity to
turing support ifnecessary. express my thanks to all our people for their dedi-
cation and professionalism. The value they create
For Roche Diagnostics 2005 was a year focused on every working day is vital ifRoche is to continue to
launching new products, particularly for diabetes invest in developing innovative solutions for areas
management.And it was also a year in which the ofunmet medical need.By helping to make patient
division expanded into markets where it had never care more effective,and hence more cost-efficient,
competed before – notably DNA sequencing.While our clinically differentiated medicines and diag-
market conditions continue to be difficult, Roche nostics will play an increasingly important role in
Diagnostics maintained its leading market posi- easing the pressure on healthcare budgets.
tion,with sales advancing 4% in local currencies to
8.2 billion Swiss francs. The division’s immuno- For decades Roche has been actively committed to
diagnostics and molecular diagnostics portfolios socially and environmentally sustainable develop-
were the main growth drivers. ment,as well as to delivering long-term benefits to
patients.At the end of last year not only were we
Roche Diagnostics posted an operating profit of reselected for inclusion in both Dow Jones Sustain-
1.7 billion Swiss francs before exceptional items, ability Indexes and the FTSE4Good Index,we were
matching the all-time high of the previous year. also ranked second in the pharmaceutical industry
Divisional profitability remained high for the category. This is a tribute to our sustainability
industry,despite a slight decrease in the operating efforts, and something I am very pleased about.
profit margin,to 20.5%. Strong pricing pressures, I am equally pleased that several highly respected
production start-up costs and the costs related to publications, including Fortune and Science, have
the many new products launches during the year included us in their lists of the best companies to
were the main reasons for this decline. work for.
As the global market leader,we feel we have an obli- Roche has always striven to be a responsible cor-
gation to supply advanced diagnostics that make a porate citizen as well as a healthcare innovator.
significant contribution to effective, cost-efficient The action we are taking to ensure the availability
patient care. Our new generation of Accu-Chek of Tamiflu in the event of a pandemic is a recent
products for improved diabetes management, example ofhow seriously we take our wider respon-
which we began launching worldwide in2005,is a sibilities as a company.We also set high standards
perfect case in point. The response has also been with our policies and practices regarding trans-
very strong tothe European and US launches ofour parency in clinical research.We disclose negative as
AmpliChip CYP450 Test, a product that takes us well as positive results from our late-stage trials,
another step closer to personalised medicine.Using and early last year we also began publishing data
6 Business Report 2005Letter from the Chairman
from all our clinical trials on the Internet.In addi-
tion, Roche has established an independently
hosted, publicly accessible online trial protocol
registry that provides information in clear,simple
language.
Our commitment to corporate social responsibility
also extends to the world’s least developed coun-
tries.Ours is one of the few companies still doing
research on HIV/AIDS,and it is also one ofthe few
companies that supplies medicines at cost and does
not enforce patent rights in the poorest developing
countries.In addition,in early 2006 we announced
that we would provide the technical expertise to
manufacture the AIDS drug saquinavir to inter-
ested manufacturers in Least Developed Countries
at no cost.
Clearly, the greatest contribution we can make to
sustainability is to continue developing new and
better solutions for unmet medical needs. But we
also recognise that our continued viability and suc-
cess as an innovative company depend on our doing
business in a socially and environmentally respon-
sible way.
Our outlook remains very positive. Thanks to a
portfolio of innovative products, we are well
positioned to continue creating value. In 2006 we
expect both divisions to achieve above-market sales
growth in local currencies,and our target is for core
earnings per share to rise in line with Group sales.
Franz B.Humer
Business Report 2005 7‘It’s so good to know my medication
really can help me.’
8 Business Report 2005A novel test brings personalised medicine
closer
When British scientist Anneke Westra was
diagnosed with manic depression, it was the
start of a ten-year nightmare. Her doctors
prescribed a succession of drugs, but she had
serious adverse reactions to them all. Some
even caused her to have hallucinations and
blackouts.Though Anneke had been fighting
depression for most of her life, she hadn’t let
that stop her from earning a PhD in biotech-
nology, registering a patent and giving lectures
all over the world. But now the medicines she
was on left her feeling drained and worn out.
At one point she even attempted suicide.
Obviously, things couldn’t go on like this,
so Anneke began doing some investigating on
her own.That’s when she found out about
the AmpliChip CYP450 Test, a test to predict
people’s ability to metabolise certain drugs.
In Anneke’s case, the test showed that her body
was breaking down and clearing her medicines
too slowly, allowing them to accumulate at
harmfully high levels.
Nothing can give Anneke back all those lost
years, but the test results did enable her doctor
to adjust her medication to a dosage that works
for her. Now 41,Anneke is being treated with
a low-dose combination of three medicines and
finally feels fine.
Predisposition
Cytochrome P450 genes code for drug-metabolising enzymes
found primarily in the liver. The AmpliChip CYP450 Test detects
variations in two of these genes that can make a patient a poor or
a rapid metaboliser of many widely prescribed drugs. This infor-
mation can help physicians make better, more personalised drug
selection and dosing decisions for their patients. And that means
more effective treatment with fewer side effects.
Business Report 2005 9Roche Group
Group results from operating activities before taxes increased to
12.0 billion Swiss francs.
The Roche Group posted very strong operating
results in 2005.Group sales increased significantly Net financial income showed a significant improve-
to 35.5 billion Swiss francs,a gain of 19% in local ment over last year, thanks to the Group’s strong
currencies (20% in Swiss francs and in US dollars). positive cash flow and the restructuring of Group
The Pharmaceuticals Division was the key growth debt that has been carried cut over recent years.
driver. Its sales increased four times as fast as Roche posted a positive financial result for 2005,
theglobal market average and significantly ahead of with net income from financial assets and foreign
the growth rates in North America, Europe and exchange management exceeding financing costs by
Japan,the division’s three most important markets. about 300 million Swiss francs.
In the Diagnostics Division sales in local currencies
increased 4%,in line with global market growth. At 6.7 billion Swiss francs,Group net income was
nearly as high as the year before (7.1 billion Swiss
Strong top-line growth had a very positive impact francs), despite income of 2.3 billion Swiss francs
on the Group’s earnings performance in 2005. from the divested consumer health business in
Operating profit before exceptional items rose 33% 2004.The Group’s return on sales margin was 19%.
in local currencies to 9 billion Swiss francs,and the
corresponding operating profit margin improved There was a further significant improvement in
substantially,rising 2.5 percentage points to 25.4%. the Group’s financial position.The ratio of equity
The excellent sales growth during the year more to total assets is now 60%, and over 86% of total
than offset significantly increased investments in assets are financed long-term.
launch and pre-launch activities and in the Group’s
strong development pipelines. For the first time,
theoperating results for 2005 and the restated prior Outlook
year figures include costs for the Group’s equity
compensation plans for employees, which are Barring unforeseen events,Roche reaffirms its posi-
recorded as an operating expense. The Group’s tive outlook for 2006.Sales in both the Pharmaceu-
improved earnings performance primarily reflects ticals and the Diagnostics Division are expected to
the Pharmaceuticals Division’s significantly higher grow ahead ofthe market in local currencies,and we
operating profit margin. anticipate continued double-digit growth for the
Pharmaceuticals Division and the Group as a whole.
The Diagnostics Division’s operating profit before
exceptional items decreased 1% in local currencies Sales growth is expected to be stronger in the
to 1.7 billion Swiss francs, resulting in a margin second halfofthe year than in the first.The reasons
decline of0.8 percentage points to 20.5%.This was for this include the patent expiries for Rocephin
primarily due to heavy price pressure in the market, and Copegus and the fact that expanded produc-
start-up costs for new manufacturing facilities,the tion capacity for Tamiflu will result in an increase in
many new products launched during the year and deliveries of pandemic supplies of the drug in the
higher depreciation from an increased volume of second halfof2006.Our target is for core earnings
instrument placements. per share and non-voting equity security to grow
in line with sales, despite significant investments
The Group’s strong profitability is also reflected in in the launch of new products and of major new
other key figures: EBITDA rose 25% in local cur- indications for established products.
rencies to 11.4 billion Swiss francs,and cash flows
10 Business Report 2005Roche Group
Group strategy Our pharmaceuticals and diagnostics businesses,
including our majority shareholdings in Genentech
Healthcare in the 21st century and Chugai, are the hub of the Roche innovation
network. Because we are both a diagnostics and a
Evolving consumer needs, innovation and market pharmaceuticals company, we can capitalise on
dynamics are likely to be the key drivers of change broad synergies in research, development and
in healthcare in the years ahead.Despite enormous marketing. These capabilities are augmented by
progress in the fight against disease,there are still technology collaborations and a constellation of
many areas of high unmet medical need.And the alliances to develop individual products and
demand for new and better healthcare products product portfolios.
andservices is bound to grow as a result ofpopula-
tion ageing and other demographic changes. The Biotechnology is an important factor in our inno-
advances that have occurred in science and technol- vation strategy. Thanks to our early involvement
ogy in recent years clearly have implications for and major investments in this sector,biologics cur-
clinical practice,raising hopes that we may one day rently account for approximately half of Roche’s
have better treatments for mankind’s most serious revenues.The Group owns a significant proportion
diseases, and perhaps even ways of preventing or ofthe world’s biotechnology manufacturing capac-
curing them.But as demand for healthcare grows, ity and is now the world’s leading producer of
so will the pressures to control its costs,which may therapeutic proteins and monoclonal antibodies.
have the unintended effect of hampering innova-
tion. Creating value for today and tomorrow
A distinctive strategy Our business model is focused on creating sustain-
able value for all our stakeholders:not just for our
Roche’s major divestments over the last several shareholders, but also for patients, our employees
years,most recently the sale ofthe consumer health and society at large.We are currently developing a
business,have been aimed at focusing the Group’s framework for measuring the value we create for
energies entirely on its two innovation-intensive each ofthese constituencies,and we expect it to be
divisions:Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics.Today’s in place in time for our 2006 Annual Report.
Roche is a highly focused company,and as a result
it is well positioned to be an industry pioneer
in healthcare – from predisposition testing and
prevention to diagnosis, therapy and treatment
monitoring.Roche is a market leader in oncology,
transplantation and virology and the world leader
in in vitro diagnostics.
Roche aspires to be distinctive in its ability to drive
value creation through the discovery,development
and commercialisation of medically differentiated
products. More specifically, Roche is pursuing
industry leadership in the emerging field ofperson-
alised healthcare, which is gaining in importance
as advances in areas such as genetic profiling
enableearlier diagnosis and facilitate better patient
stratification. Because of their clinical and eco-
nomic benefits, preventive therapies and targeted
medicines will appeal not only to consumers but to
payers and regulators as well.
Business Report 2005 11Roche Group
Creating value for all our stakeholders ‘Innovative’ and ‘innovation’ are words that are
worked awfully hard. Everybody’s an innovator
William Burns (CEO Division Roche Pharmaceu- nowadays, or claims to be.
ticals), Heino von Prondzynski (CEO Division William M. Burns. Our idea of innovation in
Roche Diagnostics*) and Erich Hunziker (CFO) healthcare centres on the patient.To be a genuine
talk about Roche’s strategy and its implemen- advance,a new medicine or diagnostic has to meet
tation. patients’ needs better than anything else that’s
available. Certainly, in these cost-conscious times,
2005 witnessed mounting pressures to control payers’ needs have to be addressed too. But we
healthcare spending, several companies were believe that the needs of payers,and of healthcare
hurt by safety concerns over high-profile prod- systems as a whole, are met most effectively by
ucts, and the healthcare sector experienced a addressing patients’needs.At Roche Pharmaceuti-
slowdown in growth. Roche’s sales, by contrast, cals we use the phrase ‘clinically differentiated
have continued to grow strongly, and the com- medicine’to describe drugs that treat a particular
pany has a premium stock market rating. What patient population with a significantly higher
makes Roche different? degree of success or fewer side effects than other
Erich Hunziker. Roche has a strategy designed to options.Or that are simply much easier to take.We
help it excel in today’s cost-conscious healthcare have five anti-cancer medicines proven to extend
market. We are a market leader in high-growth patients’lives – a claim no other healthcare com-
areas like oncology, transplantation and hepatitis, pany can match. These are exactly the kinds of
and a world leader in in vitro diagnostics.Our aim products we’re after.
is to supply innovative prescription drugs and diag-
nostics that are best-in-class. We’re not out to Heino von Prondzynski. Roche supplies pioneer-
develop ‘me-too’ drugs offering marginal benefits ing diagnostic devices for a wide range of uses –
over what’s already on the market,and we have no from predisposition screening and early detection
interest in following some of our competitors into to response monitoring and prognostic testing.
the generics business.Also,investors are becoming And because they contribute to better medical deci-
increasingly risk-averse,which means they’re pay- sion-making right down the line – helping doctors
ing close attention to the procedures companies make better decisions faster at virtually every stage
have in place for risk management and sustainabil- in the fight against disease – they can promote
ity. This includes areas like corporate governance, meaningful savings while at the same time substan-
patents,access to products in the poorest develop- tially improving patient outcomes.
ing countries and ethics in business.Thanks to its
sound policies and procedures and transparent We’re already a leader in major segments like
reporting, Roche has come to be recognised as a molecular diagnostics and diabetes monitoring,
leader in corporate sustainability. and we’re doing pioneering work on biomarkers for
cancer and heart attack.
EH. There are different ways and degrees ofaspiring
to be an innovator.At Roche we’ve embraced inno-
vation as our greatest strength,the core ofour com-
petitive advantage. And we’ve put an innovation
model in place that’s like no other in the industry.
To be an innovator, obviously you have to have
access to cutting-edge science and technology.We
got into biotechnology early on,acquiring a major-
ity stake in Genentech back in 1990,because even
then we could see the potential of protein thera-
peutics.
* Until the end of 2005.
12 Business Report 2005Roche Group
Technological advances are certainly one of the
major drivers of innovation. What role does
biotechnology play in the innovation process at
Roche?
WMB. As our understanding ofthe molecular basis
ofdisease grows,it’s increasingly clear that diseases
like cancer,and even diabetes,are far more diverse
than anyone once suspected. And while this may
sound like discouraging news,it’s in fact cause for
hope,because it means that the likelihood ofiden-
tifying optimal molecular targets for new drugs is
increasing. Biotechnology has opened up com-
pletely new therapeutic approaches,particularly in
oncology. We’re pursuing these new possibilities
very aggressively and are confident that they will William M. Burns, CEO Division Roche Pharmaceuticals
bea major source offuture innovations – which of
course means that we also expect them to be a key
growth driver for us. This doesn’t mean that we
intend to stop working on new chemical therapeu-
tics – not by any means.Our chances ofdeveloping
truly differentiated medicines are greatest if our WMB. Our twin focus on pharmaceuticals and
drug discovery efforts include small molecules and diagnostics will continue to serve us well in the
proteins. future, particularly given the industry trend away
from ‘one size fits all’products to more individu-
EH. One of Roche’s great strengths is its ability to alised therapeutic options – a trend,I might add,in
craft a long-term strategy and follow through on it. which Roche has clearly been a leader. Clinically
Our lead in biotechnology is a result of strategic documented therapeutic benefits are increasingly
choices made over the course of the last ten to what count. Our strengths in biotechnology, our
15 years. Our unique innovation model, combin- unique research network and our lead in diagnos-
ing strong in-house R&D,majority shareholdings tics R&D are all major competitive advantages.
in Genentech and Chugai and partnerships with
scores of other biotechs and universities, gives us When will personalised medicine be a reality?
broad access to the technologies that spur innova- HvP. What seemed like a distant vision a few years
tion.We’re already a major player in biotechnology, ago is now coming within reach.Roche has already
and we’re poised to become even stronger. launched the world’s first commercially available
pharmacogenomic test, the AmpliChip CYP450
What is the strategic rationale behind Roche’s Test. It helps physicians select the medicines and
commitment to diagnostics, an industry that is dosages most suitable for their patients.One ofthe
clearly less dynamic than pharmaceuticals? key technologies powering the test is the poly-
HvP. Right now Roche Diagnostics is at the fore- merase chain reaction,or ‘PCR’for short.The other
front ofanother revolution in medicine.Our prod- is the DNA microarray. We’re now developing
ucts are helping to address two ofhealthcare’s most microarray-based tests for the diagnosis and moni-
critical challenges:namely,drug safety and efficacy toring of cancer, osteoporosis and other complex
on the one hand, and cost containment on the diseases. Particularly in oncology, our aim is to
other.As personalised medicine comes of age – as enable treatments to be tailored more closely to the
it certainly will – Roche’s combined expertise in genetic profiles ofspecific patient populations.Our
diagnostics and therapeutics will play a key role leukemia microarray,for example,will be a major
inpioneering new medical breakthroughs. step forward in discriminating between leukemia
subtypes quickly and reliably.And our AmpliChip
p53 Test could one day help physicians reliably
Business Report 2005 13Roche Group
Focusing on ‘high-end’ medical innovations is
commercially risky given the huge investments
involved and the inherent uncertainty of R&D.
How does Roche counterbalance these risks?
EH. Despite heavy investments in R&D,production
and marketing,there are no guarantees of success.
Generally speaking, we’ll continue to pursue a
rather conservative financial investment strategy,
since that helps counterbalance the commercial
risks associated with our high-tech operating busi-
nesses.
WMB. Maintaining the right balance between in-
house and external R&D in our innovation network
Erich Hunziker, Chief Financial Officer can be viewed as a kind of‘risk spreading’strategy.
Our majority stakes in Genentech and Chugai and
our many other alliances and partnerships comple-
ment and augment our internal capabilities in a
variety ofways.Among other things,by reinforcing
a corporate culture that promotes creativity.And of
determine how aggressive a cancer is and decide course they have significantly enhanced the depth
which therapies will work and which ones won’t. and quality of our development pipeline,which is
an important aspect of risk management.We need
WMB. Our divisions have been working together to continue refining the structures and skills that
on biomarkers for several years now. Biomarkers have enabled us to build and manage our innova-
have the potential to increase our understanding of tion network so successfully.We need to ensure that
drug efficacy and safety, and as Heino just indi- we have the capabilities to recognise promising
cated, they’re playing an increasingly significant emerging technologies very early on as well as the
role in drug discovery and development. For partnership and governance structures that will
instance, we’re currently collaborating with our continue to make us a preferred partner for product
colleagues over in Diagnostics on a biomarker and technology alliances.
that will predict which patients with rheumatoid
arthritis are most likely to benefit from treatment Right now Roche is enjoying strong operating
with MabThera/Rituxan or Actemra. Rheumatoid earnings and expects them to continue. What do
arthritis is an emerging area ofstrength for Roche. you propose to do with all the cash? What are
Given the growing range of treatment options for the priorities?
rheumatoid arthritis,it would be extremely useful EH. Repaying debt and increasing our net liquidity
to have a test that predicts how different patients are high on the list of financial priorities,and cer-
might respond to different drugs. Personalising tainly some ofour strong cash flow will go for that.
medicine also means developing more targeted Good as our balance sheet currently is,we want to
drugs.At present we’re pursuing the development make it even better,which will give us greater flexi-
of cancer drugs for adjuvant use very aggressively. bility to strengthen our core businesses.And we’ll
These aren’t palliative treatments any longer – we’re continue to make carefully selected acquisitions –
moving from extending patients’ lives to curing primarily to strengthen the Group strategically and
cancers.Despite recent advances,however,the war gain access to new technologies. That’s what our
on cancer is still,unfortunately,far from being won. financial resources are for. Our goal isn’t to max-
imise quarterly earnings – it never has been and
never will be.That’s a trap we’ve managed to avoid,
and it would be at odds with the long development
cycles in our businesses.
14 Business Report 2005Roche Group
HvP. The healthcare market will change signifi-
cantly over the next decade, and in ways that are
fairly easy to predict.Ageing populations and pop-
ulation growth are certain to fuel demand for
healthcare,while increasing the pressure to contain
its costs.And it seems equally certain that person-
alised medicine will become a growing part of
mainstream medical practice.Ten years from now
we want to be a company that consistently brings
clinically differentiated products and services to
market.And we want to be acknowledged by regu-
lators and payers as a company with a steady eye
on delivering benefits that justify the costs. Our
distinctive combination of strengths gives us a
strategic edge here by enabling us to develop novel Heino von Prondzynski, CEO Division Roche Diagnostics*
products and services spanning the entire health-
care spectrum. We believe there have to be im-
provements at every step in the healthcare process,
starting with predisposition screening and early
detection; and at Roche we’ll carry on making
significant contributions on all these fronts.
WMB. Achieving our ambitions will require us to
continue our strong financial commitment to
research and development – something we have
every intention ofdoing.World-class research is the
backbone ofour strategy ofcreating value through
innovation.It’s what enables us to deliver advances
in healthcare, creating superior value for patients
and for all our other stakeholders.And that means
that we’ll have to keep an especially close eye on
new and emerging developments in science and
technology, so that we can continue to anticipate
trends and adjust and refine our strategy accord-
ingly.
* Until the end of 2005.
Business Report 2005 15‘We couldn’t have stood
the uncertainty any longer.’
16 Business Report 2005How a test for HIV spared two parents
months of worry
‘You have a healthy baby’ are first words parents
want to hear after the birth of a child. Ruth
and Colin Webb were no different.The British
couple were HIV-positive when their daughters
were born.There was a time when the Webbs
would have had to wait an agonising 18 months
after their daughters’ births to find out whether
the girls had HIV.That’s how long it took for
the less sensitive tests used at that time to detect
the virus in a child’s body.
HIV-positive mothers like Ruth Webb
make a huge effort to give birth to healthy
children.To reduce the risk of mother-to-child
transmission, Ruth took Fortovase during
her pregnancies to lower the amount of HIV
in her blood, and her doctor closely tracked
her viral load with an HIV monitoring test.
There was no way of knowing whether the
babies would be alright until they were born,
but at least they were spared all those addi-
tional months of anxious waiting.
An HIV-1 DNA test provided initial reassur-
ance within a few weeks of birth. For the Webbs
their girls’ test results were an enormous relief.
Sarah and Anna, now five and seven years old,
were both HIV-negative.
Early diagnosis
PCR-based tests can detect even tiny amounts of HIV, making it
possible to diagnose infection long before any symptoms appear.
Besides resolving uncertainties about perinatal HIV transmission,
this can give HIV-positive patients and their doctors a critical
timeadvantage in fighting the virus. The earlier therapy is started,
the better.
Business Report 2005 17Pharmaceuticals Division in brief
Sales in millions of CHF
2005 27,268
2004 21,695
2003 19,781
Operating profit before exceptional items1) in millions of CHF
2005 7,463
2004 5,432
2003 4,698
1) From 2004 including charges for all equity compensation plans.
Number of employees
2005 48,049
2004 45,108
2003 44,535
Key figures
% change % change in
In millions of CHF in CHF local currencies As % of sales
Sales 27,268 26 25 100
– Roche Pharmaceuticals 16,955 21 20 62
– Genentech 6,614 46 46 24
– Chugai 3,699 15 17 14
EBITDA 8,997 30 29 33.0
Operating profit1) 7,463 37 37 27.4
Research and development 4,986 12 12 18.3
1) Before exceptional items.
Pharma Executive Committee 1 January 2006
William M. Burns CEO Division Roche Pharmaceuticals
George C. Abercrombie North America
Jennifer Allerton Informatics
Eduard Holdener Development
Peter Hug Partnering
Jonathan K.C. Knowles Research
Dominic Moorhead Finance and Controlling
Paul Newton-Syms Human Resources
Charles Sabbah1) Strategic Marketing
Pascal Soriot2)
Claude Schreiner Western Europe
Jan van Koeveringe Technical Operations
1) To 28 February 2006.
2) From 1 March 2006.
18 Business Report 2005Pharmaceuticals
Results Sales by region
In 2005 the Pharmaceuticals Division recorded its
best result ever, exceeding the high, above-market
growth of the previous year. Sales for the full
Latin America 6% (+20%)
year rose 25% in local currencies (26% in Swiss
Japan 14% (+17%)
francs and 25% in US dollars) to 27.3 billion Swiss
Others 8% (+15%)
francs,four times as fast as the global market.The
gains also more than offset the decline of the
Group’s former top-selling medicine Rocephin
Europe 32% (+23%)
following the expiry of its US patent in July.As in
North America 40% (+32%)
2004, growth was driven primarily by strong
demand for the division’s flagship oncology port-
folio,now boosted by the innovative cancer treat- Italic = growth rates.
ments Avastin and Tarceva, and by strong sales of
CellCept (transplantation) and Pegasys (hepatitis B
and C). The anti-influenza drug Tamiflu, which Therapeutic areas
many governments are stockpiling as part of pan-
demic readiness programmes, also contributed to Oncology
growth. The division’s oncology, transplantation
and virology franchises significantly outpaced their Cancer is one ofthe main causes ofdeath in indus-
respective markets. trialised countries, and the Roche Group is at the
forefront of the search for better solutions for
Operating profit before exceptional items increased patients and physicians in this important area of
again,by 37% to 7.5 billion Swiss francs.The oper- unmet medical need.Roche is pioneering a number
ating profit margin before exceptional items gained ofadvances in cancer treatment,including targeted
2.4 percentage points, rising from 25.0% in 2004 therapy. MabThera/Rituxan, Herceptin, Avastin,
to27.4% in 2005.This improvement was achieved Tarceva and Xeloda are all examples of the Roche
despite higher investments in R&D, continued Group’s innovative cancer treatments.
product launch activities and,by comparison with
2004,much lower gains from product divestments. Two thousand and five was an outstanding year
EBITDA totalled 9 billion Swiss francs or 33.0% of forthe Roche Group’s oncology portfolio1).Sales of
sales,compared with 32.0% the previous year. oncology products grew 42%2) and now account
1) Oncology portfolio: MabThera/Rituxan, Herceptin, Avastin,
Xeloda, Tarceva, Bondronat, Kytril, Furtulon, Neupogen,
NeoRecormon (36%), Roferon-A (70%), Neutrogin, Picibanil,
Vesanoid.
2) Unless otherwise stated, all growth rates are in local
currencies.
Business Report 2005 19Pharmaceuticals
Sales by therapeutic area Breast cancer is the most common cancer among
women worldwide, with over 1 million women
newly diagnosed and almost 400,000 dying from
the disease each year. There are different types of
Transplantation 8%
breast cancer, and knowledge of tumour charac-
Dermatology 1%
teristics is essential for determining appropriate
Metabolic disorders 7%
treatment. Herceptin (trastuzumab) is designed
Central nervous system 5%
specifically for a particularly aggressive type of
tumour (HER2-positive) that accounts for approx-
Infectious diseases 4% imately 20–30% of all breast cancers. Sales of
Herceptin, the only targeted treatment approved
Cardiovascular
diseases 6% for HER2-positive breast cancer,showed impressive
Inflammatory diseases/ gains in all key markets in 2005. Strong growth
bone diseases 2%
in the US and Europe was driven by extensions
Virology 15%
in treatment duration and increased first-line
Others 6%
penetration. Herceptin is also supported by a
Anemia 6%
considerable, and growing, body of clinical data
Oncology 40%
showing that the product offers significant survival
benefits in the advanced and early disease settings.
As a result of very strong data reported in 2005,
for 40% of divisional sales.All major brands con- Herceptin is already being used and reimbursed in
tributed to this result, which has substantially some countries in the adjuvant (early disease)
reinforced the Group’s position as the world’s lead- setting in advance of approval. (See also Major
ing provider ofcancer medications. development activities,Oncology,p.27,Setting new
standards in cancer treatment, p. 30, and patient
Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL), a group of story,p.71.)
malignancies of the lymphatic system, affects
approximately 1.5 million people worldwide and Skeletal complications, including hypercalcemia,
claims an estimated 300,000 lives each year.Sales of bone lesions and fractures, are often associated
MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab),for the treatment with cancer. Following the rollout of Bondronat
of indolent and aggressive forms of NHL, were (ibandronic acid) in major European markets for
strong throughout the year,driven by a steady rise the prevention of skeletal events in patients with
in prescriptions for both forms ofNHL in Europe. breast cancer and bone metastases,sales increased
In August Genentech and Biogen Idec filed a sup- strongly,by 108% to 79 million Swiss francs.
plemental application with the US Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) for approval of the product Colorectal cancer – cancer of the large intestine
for use in untreated patients with intermediate or rectum – accounts for over 1 million new cases
grade or aggressive NHL. A pivotal international (around 10% of all newly diagnosed cancers)
phase III clinical trial has shown that two years worldwide each year.It is the second mostcommon
of maintenance therapy with MabThera/Rituxan cause of cancer deaths in Europe.The main treat-
dramatically improves the chances of survival of ment is surgery,which may also be combined with
patients suffering from indolent non-Hodgkin’s radiotherapy and chemotherapy.
lymphoma, regardless of their initial therapy.
Based on these results, Roche filed an application Avastin (bevacizumab), the first anti-angiogenic
with EU regulators in December to expand the drug for the treatment of cancer, generated an
product’s indications to include maintenance treat- impressive 1.7 billion Swiss francs in sales in its first
ment in patients with indolent NHL. (See Major full year on the market.Already approved in the US
development activities, pp. 26–29, for information for the treatment of advanced colorectal cancer,
about ongoing clinical development programmes Avastin received EU approval for the same indica-
with MabThera/Rituxan and other products.) tion in January 2005 and has now been launched in
20 Business Report 2005Pharmaceuticals
Oncology professionals
moved at ASCO
More than 20,000 oncology specialists and
other professionals attended the 41st American
Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) Meeting
in Orlando, Florida, last May. Also present was
Jonas Marques, oncology/hematology sales
manager at Roche Brazil, who was particularly
interested in the special session on Avastin and
Herceptin.
Both products were featured in a packed session
that clearly moved the attendees, who considered
the studies presented extremely important because
of their impact and consistent findings. During the of cancers other than colorectal. It is currently awaiting
Herceptin presentation, one of the world’s leading approval in Brazil.
oncologists remarked, ‘Biology has spoken, and we
must listen,’ and added, ‘Herceptin has ushered in a The 7,000 attendees responded with a standing ovation.
new era of breast cancer treatment.’ ‘This is the first time I have seen this at any type of data
presentation,’ says Jonas. ‘I think it says a lot about the
The presentation’s impact was evident. ‘After the ses- impact of these products on the cancer world.’
sion,’ says Jonas ‘one Brazilian specialist called his
clinic to prescribe Herceptin as adjuvant therapy for Jonas joined the Roche Brazil oncology team in 2002
patients he had already treated for breast cancer in the and has always been aware of the importance of his
last six months.’ work to patient care. ‘The Herceptin presentation at the
2005 ASCO Meeting has given my job new meaning.
Oncologists were also very impressed with the data on Women with HER2-positive breast cancer may now
Avastin, which appears to have potential for treatment have a real chance for long-term survival.’
key European markets.Sales in the US continue to and in Europe.Pancreatic cancer,one of the most
show rapid growth,while uptake in Europe has also aggressive malignancies, kills a higher proportion
been very strong.(See patient story,p.85.) ofpatients in the first year after diagnosis than any
other cancer.It is often resistant to chemotherapy
Sales of Xeloda (capecitabine) continued their and radiotherapy and tends to spread quickly to
strong upward trend in 2005,with impressive gains other parts of the body. Pancreatic cancer is the
in all major markets. Growth has been fuelled by fifth leading cause of cancer deaths in the devel-
recent US and EU approvals for the use ofthe prod- oped world and the tenth most frequent cancer in
uct for adjuvant treatment (after surgery) ofcolon Europe,where it kills some 78,000 people per year.
cancer.
In its first full year on the market, Tarceva
With an estimated 1.2 million new cases annually, (erlotinib), a novel targeted cancer drug with
lung cancer is the most common cancer worldwide. proven survival benefit in advanced non-small cell
It is the leading cause ofcancer deaths in the world lung cancer and pancreatic cancer,generated robust
Business Report 2005 21Pharmaceuticals
sales.Market response to the product has been very proven long-term organ and patient survival
positive. Following US approval late in 2004 for benefits. Zenapax (daclizumab), which prevents
second- or third-line treatment of non-small cell the acute rejection of newly transplanted organs,
lung cancer,the product received EU approval for and Valcyte (valganciclovir), for the prevention
the same indication in September 2005. It has of cytomegalovirus (CMV),a dangerous infection
already been launched in several European coun- associated with transplantation, complete the
tries, with rollouts in further markets scheduled Roche transplantation portfolio. Roche supports
throughout 2006.In November theFDA approved basic transplantation research through its funding
Tarceva for the treatment of advanced pancreatic of the independent Roche Organ Transplantation
cancer;a filing for this indication was submitted to Research Foundation.
EU regulators in October.
The Roche Group maintained its global leadership
Anemia in the transplantation market in 2005.The Group’s
transplantation portfolio generated total sales of
Anemia occurs when the number ofred blood cells 2.2 billion Swiss francs, a rise of 19% over the
falls below normal, starving organs and tissues of previous year. The immunosuppressant CellCept
oxygen. It is seen in over 80% of patients with posted solid double-digit gains globally and in its
impaired renal function due to chronic kidney key regions, maintaining its leadership of the
disease and in up to 60% of patients with cancer. mycophenolic acid market (with a market share of
The potential long-term effects of anemia include over 95%) despite the entry ofa new competitor.
cardiovascular disease in renal patients and re-
duced survival in patients with cancer.Anemia can Valcyte,the market leader for prevention of CMV
be fatal ifleft untreated. disease, showed consistent growth throughout
the year. A solid double-digit gain was recorded
Sales of Roche’s NeoRecormon and Chugai’s for combined sales of Valcyte and Cymevene
Epogin (epoetin beta),for the treatment ofanemia, (ganciclovir).
showed healthy growth in 2005. NeoRecormon
retained its leadership position in its markets Virology
despite sustained pricing pressure,with both indi-
cations (cancer-related anemia and renal anemia) The liver is one of the body’s most important
contributing to an 11% increase in sales. In the organs, performing over 500 vital functions. The
oncology setting NeoRecormon continued its hepatitis B and C viruses (HBV,HCV) both cause
strong market penetration,posting growth of21%, acute and chronic liver disease,potentially leading
well ahead of the market (9%), thanks primarily to liver failure, cirrhosis and cancer. Worldwide,
to continued adoption of the convenient once- 350 million people are thought to be chronically
weekly prefilled syringe formulation.NeoRecormon infected with HBV, a highly infectious pathogen
is now indicated for the treatment of anemia in that is responsible for an estimated 1 million deaths
patients with all solid and lymphoid cancers receiv- annually.More than 170 million people around the
ing any form ofchemotherapy. world are infected with HCV,and 3 to 4 million new
cases occur each year.Hepatitis C is the main reason
Transplantation for liver transplantation.
Some 70,000 people worldwide receive life-saving Combined sales of Pegasys (peginterferon alfa-2a)
organ transplants each year. Thanks to advances and Copegus (ribavirin) showed strong growth in
in surgical procedures and immunosuppressive 2005.In particular,higher sales volumes in Europe
therapy to prevent organ rejection, transplant were driven by market share increases and market
recipients can now survive for many years with expansion as a result ofnew indications.Significant
their new organs.This means increased demand for approvals towards the end of 2004 and early in
effective, low-toxicity immunosuppressant drugs 2005 have given the Pegasys plus Copegus combi-
like CellCept (mycophenolate mofetil), which has nation the broadest range ofhepatitis C indications
22 Business Report 2005Pharmaceuticals
Meeting world demand
for Tamiflu
The World Health Organization (WHO) recom-
mends that governments stockpile antivirals in
preparation for a possible influenza pandemic
as part of their overall pandemic plans. Roche is
assisting governments by dramatically expand-
ing Tamiflu production capacity to respond to
this critical need.
Armin Knoblich, global supply chain leader for Tamiflu,
is proud to be part of an international task force of
Roche specialists who have been working around the
clock to ramp up supply quickly. ‘To be able to produce
over 300 million treatments annually by 2007,’ he says, is extracted from star anise, a plant native to four
‘we are expanding our network of suppliers, third-party provinces in China. But shikimic acid can also be pro-
manufacturers, and licensees and selectively investing duced in large quantities by a special fermentation
in our own facilities. That way, we can meet the demand method that does not rely on star anise. By expanding
for Tamiflu while keeping our manufacturing network production of shikimic acid by fermentation, Roche
flexible enough to respond to the situation in future.’ is helping to ensure that Tamiflu production is not
held back by a crop failure or other disruption of
New production processes will also play a role. For supply.
example, shikimic acid, the starting material for Tamiflu,
of any product or combination, including use in reserved for use as a rapid response stockpile to
patients co-infected with HIV and in those with contain an influenza pandemic outbreak. Roche
normal liver enzyme levels. An application for continues to substantially expand its Tamiflu pro-
approval ofcombined Pegasys and Copegus in hep- duction capacity and will be able to produce over
atitis C by Chugai has been designated for priority 300 million treatments annually by 2007, using a
review by the Japanese authorities. Pegasys is also collaborative network ofits own facilities and those
approved for the treatment of hepatitis B in over ofa significant number ofindependent companies.
50countries worldwide. In October Roche announced its willingness to
enter discussions with governments and other
Worldwide sales of Tamiflu (oseltamivir) rose to manufacturers on the production of Tamiflu for
1.6billion Swiss francs,driven by a severe influenza emergency pandemic use. Roche has since signed
season in Japan early in the year and increased sublicensing agreements with Shanghai Pharma-
orders for pandemic readiness supplies. Over ceuticals for China and Hetero Drugs in India and
60countries have now placed orders for pandemic is in discussion with twelve additional partners to
stocks of Tamiflu, with some purchasing enough enhance the Tamiflu production network. At the
to cover 25–40% of their populations. Roche has end of the year the FDA approved and the EMEA
agreed to donate over five million packs ofTamiflu and the Swiss authorities recommended approval
to the World Health Organization (WHO): two of the product for prevention of influenza in chil-
million packs to be kept in regional stockpiles for dren aged 1–12 years. (See Meeting world demand
use in the event of outbreaks of avian influenza forTamiflu,above,and Access to medicines,p.31.)
andanother three million packs in central storage,
Business Report 2005 23Pharmaceuticals
Major product approvals and launches in 20051)
Product Generic name Indication Country
Avastin bevacizumab first-line treatment in combination with chemotherapy EU
of metastatic colorectal cancer
Bonviva/Boniva ibandronic acid osteoporosis, oral once-monthly formulation EU, USA,
Switzerland
osteoporosis, intravenous formulation USA
Invirase saquinavir HIV disease, 500 mg formulation EU,
Switzerland
Pegasys peginterferon alfa-2a chronic hepatitis B EU, USA
HCV-HIV co-infection EU, USA,
Switzerland
Tarceva erlotinib second- or third-line treatment of advanced EU,
non-small cell lung cancer Switzerland
advanced pancreatic cancer, in combination USA
with gemcitabine
Xeloda capecitabine adjuvant colon cancer monotherapy EU, USA
Switzerland
1) Includes supplemental indications; updated to 6 January 2005.
HIV is a worldwide pandemic,and the number of Primary care
people living with HIV continues to rise.The World
Health Organization estimates that 40.3 million Osteoporosis causes a gradual loss ofbone density,
people, including more than 2.3 million children, making bones brittle and prone to break.It affects
were living with HIV/AIDS at the end of2005.For millions of people worldwide, especially women
almost 20 years Roche’s innovative drugs and diag- after the menopause.
nostic tests have placed it at the forefront ofefforts
to combat HIV infection and AIDS, and we will Bonviva/Boniva (ibandronic acid), the first and
continue working to improve the standard of HIV only once-monthly oral bisphosphonate approved
care worldwide. For information on Roche’s for the treatment ofpostmenopausal osteoporosis,
HIV/AIDS initiatives,see Access to medicines(p.30), was launched by Roche and its copromotion part-
Ensuring access to healthcare worldwide (p.79),and ner GlaxoSmithKline in the US in April and in
visit www.roche.com. Europe in September. Sales totalled 86 million
Swiss francs and are expected to gain further
Sales of Fuzeon (enfuvirtide) increased 53% to momentum as physicians and patients recognise
259 million Swiss francs in 2005, helped by data and prefer the simplicity and convenience of a
from major studies showing the added value of once-monthly tablet.In January 2006 Boniva Injec-
Fuzeon when prescribed together with the latest tion became the first intravenous medication to be
anti-HIV agents. Recent updates to key treatment approved in the US for the treatment of post-
guidelines also support Fuzeon use in treatment- menopausal osteoporosis, providing the proven
experienced patients and are expected to drive bone-strengthening benefits of bisphosphonate
further uptake ofthe drug. therapy to more women. Given once every three
months, Boniva Injection is designed to meet the
needs ofpatients who are unable to take or tolerate
oral bisphosphonates.The EU authorities are cur-
rently reviewing a marketing application for the
same innovative formulation of Bonviva. (See
patient story,p.43.)
24 Business Report 2005Pharmaceuticals
Top-selling pharmaceutical products — Roche Group
Sales % change in
Product Generic name Indication in millions of CHF local currencies
MabThera/Rituxan rituximab non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma 4,154 22
NeoRecormon, Epogin epoetin beta anemia 2,252 8
Herceptin trastuzumab metastatic breast cancer 2,146 48
CellCept mycophenolate mofetil transplantation 1,705 20
Avastin bevacizumab metastatic colorectal cancer 1,665 141
Tamiflu oseltamivir treatment and prevention of influenza A and B 1,558 370
Pegasys peginterferon alfa-2a hepatitis B and C 1,403 17
Rocephin ceftriaxone bacterial infections 927 –29
Xeloda capecitabine colorectal or breast cancer 796 47
Xenical orlistat weight loss, weight control 635 5
Kytril granisetron nausea and vomiting induced by chemotherapy 500 9
or radiation therapy or following surgery
Nutropin, Protropin somatropin, somatrem growth hormone deficiency 476 6
Xolair omalizumab asthma 408 74
Copegus ribavirin hepatitis C 407 6
Cymevene, Valcyte ganciclovir, valganciclovir cytomegalovirus infection 394 19
Pulmozyme dornase alfa/DNase cystic fibrosis 393 15
Tarceva erlotinib non-small cell lung cancer, pancreatic cancer 387 2,224
Neutrogin lenograstim neutropenia associated with chemotherapy 364 15
Dilatrend carvedilol chronic heart failure, hypertension, 326 –11
coronary artery disease
Activase, TNKase alteplase, tenecteplase myocardial infarction 310 11
Global sales of Xenical (orlistat) were up 5% in a Research and development
flat market.In 2005 the product’s EU labeling was
expanded to include data on the use ofthe product Roche is committed to discovering and develop-
in obese adolescents. Xenical is thus the first and ingclinically differentiated medicines in key thera-
only weight-loss medication in the United States peutic areas, including oncology, inflammatory,
and Europe with such information in the label. autoimmune and bone diseases,virology and trans-
In February the existing agreement with Glaxo- plantation. The broad interdisciplinary approach
SmithKline was expanded to include promotion of made possible by the combined expertise of the
prescription Xenical in the US by one ofGSK’s sales Group’s Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions
forces.In January 2006 an FDA advisory committee is helping to expand our understanding ofdiseases
recommended approval of an application filed by and biological processes and translate scientific
GSK last June to market low-dose orlistat as an advances into innovative medicines.Innovation in
over-the-counter medicine for weight loss. science and technology is the core of the Roche
Group’s focused R&D strategy.
Other major products
The success of this strategy is reflected in the rich-
As expected, sales of Rocephin (ceftriaxone) ness of the Group’s pharmaceuticals pipeline. Its
declined markedly following the expiry ofthe prod- strength is expressed not only in the number ofnew
uct’s US patent in July and the emergence ofgeneric molecular entities (NMEs) in the R&D portfolio.
competitors in the second halfofthe year. The success rate of the Group’s late-stage clinical
Business Report 2005 25Pharmaceuticals
111 research projects in major therapeutic areas of expertise in therapeutic antibody research and
(31 December 2005) adds new,cutting-edge technologies and products
to the Roche R&D organisation and pipeline.
GlycArt’s unique protein technology complements
Oncology 30 efforts to develop biological compounds that offer
Neurological and patients superior efficacy and safety.
psychiatric diseases 21
Virology 8
R&D pipeline
Respiratory diseases 8
Genitourinary diseases 4
At the end of 2005 the Pharmaceuticals Division’s
Inflammatory, autoimmune
R&D pipeline comprised 108 projects, including
and bone diseases 10
59 new molecular entities (NMEs) and 49 addi-
Cardiovascular and
tional indications. Fourteen NMEs are currently
metabolic diseases 30
in phase 0, 21 in phase I, 19 in phase II and five
in phase III or filed for regulatory review.In 2005
13projects entered phase I development,12 entered
phase II and 13 entered phase III. Seven projects
moved out ofthe R&D portfolio following regula-
tory approvals.
Roche Pharmaceuticals currently has 111 projects
trials – in 2005 fifteen out offifteen phase III trials in preclinical research across seven therapeutic
met their clinical endpoints – also makes Roche an areas and 78 development projects in nine thera-
industry leader.This is due in part to selection deci- peutic areas.
sions based on aggressive screening and thorough
profiling ofcompounds at the discovery,preclinical In 2005 four Roche-managed R&D projects were
and early clinical stages. discontinued in phase 0 (one of which reverted
to the R&D partner); eight were discontinued in
Another cornerstone ofour R&D strategy empha- phase I (with two reverting to R&D partners and
sises the value of leveraging key product assets two outlicensed); three were discontinued in
by expanding their use into new indications. phase II (of which one reverted to the partner).
MabThera/Rituxan is a case in point:already estab- There were no discontinuations in phase III.
lished as a cancer medicine,it has now been tested
in another important area of unmet medical need, Partnering for success
rheumatoid arthritis (see Rheumatoid arthritis and
autoimmune diseases,p.29). By pursuing innovative strategic alliances to com-
plement the Group’s strong internal research, the
Roche is continuing to implement initiatives that Roche Pharma Partnering unit continued helping
aim to achieve better patient selection in clinical to build a dynamic and robust pharmaceuticals
development programmes by developing predic- portfolio (see Partnering for innovation, p. 28).
tive biomarkers. This is a key area of collabora- In 2005 Roche Pharmaceuticals signed 31 new
tionbetween the Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics licensing agreements,including six product-related
Divisions.Tests that enable predictions ofhow dif- and 17 research and technology partnerships,and
ferent patients might respond to particular drugs extended relationships with long-term partners
will allow identification of the most effective drug such as GlaxoSmithKline,Protein Design Labs and
combinations for patient subpopulations while also Evotec.
limiting undesirable effects.
The acquisition of GlycArt Biotechnology, com-
pleted in July 2005,represents a significant addition
26 Business Report 2005Fold-out: R&D Pipeline (cid:2) Pharmaceuticals
Therapeutic proteins —
building a stronger portfolio
Biopharmaceuticals are promising candidates
for innovative therapies in a number of disease
areas. However, creating protein-based drugs is
a complex process that poses challenges very
different to the manufacturing of small mole-
cules. Roche Pharmaceuticals established the
Therapeutic Protein Initiative (TPI) to build and
expand its expertise in this area.
TPI is a global initiative, uniting contributions from
many divisional functions, with protein discovery and
development activities in Penzberg and protein for-
mulation in Basel as its cornerstones. By acquiring ‘Recombinant proteins, especially monoclonal anti-
and developing external and internal knowledge and bodies, have demonstrated their value as novel thera-
skills, Roche has established novel technologies in peutic agents due to their high target specificity.
cell-line development, automated product isolation They already provide safe and effective therapies for
and advanced analytical technologies. many patients,’ says Stephan Fischer, Global Head of
Biologics Research and Development at Roche. ‘Our
Since its inception in 2001 TPI has helped increase expertise and competence in all functions involved in
Roche Pharmaceuticals’ R&D productivity, with the protein research, development and manufacturing put
number of protein-based projects rising from four to the Roche Group in a unique position to keep deliver-
now more than 25. Most of these are in the key areas ing breakthrough medicines.’
of oncology, inflammatory and autoimmune disorders
and transplantation.
Major development activities the treatment of adjuvant colon cancer, advanced
renal cell carcinoma, and pancreatic, prostate and
Oncology ovarian cancer.It is also being tested in combina-
Major clinical development programmes are tion with Tarceva in non-small cell lung cancer
exploring the benefits of MabThera/Rituxan,Her- (NSCLC).
ceptin, Avastin, Tarceva and Xeloda in additional
important indications. Roche is evaluating MabThera/Rituxan in chronic
lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) in two phase III pro-
Recent phase III data have shown that Avastin has grammes exploring its use as first-line treatment
significant survival benefit in metastatic non-small and in the therapy ofrelapsing CLL.
cell lung cancer and metastatic breast cancer,
increasing the drug’s potential to become a main- Phase III and IV trials with Herceptin are ongoing
stay of cancer treatment (see Setting new standards in the metastatic and adjuvant settings in breast
in cancer treatment, p. 30). Regulatory filings for cancer. Herceptin is also being evaluated in the
these new indications are planned for 2006.In addi- treatment of gastric cancer. Data from four large
tion,Avastin is being studied in phase III trials in clinical trials in patients with early-stage breast
Business Report 2005 27R&D pipeline: all major development projects successfully brought forward
Therapeutic area Project ID Project/product (generic name) Pharmacological class Indication Phase Partner
Cardiovascular and R1438 enzyme inhibitor type 2 diabetes II
metabolic diseases R1439 type 2 diabetes I
R1440 enzyme modulator type 2 diabetes II
R1511 type 2 diabetes 0
R1579 type 2 diabetes 0
R1593 dyslipidemia I Nippon Shinyaku (NS-220)
R1658 CETP inhibitor dyslipidemia II Japan Tobacco (JTT-705)
R1664 dyslipidemia 0
R483 insulin sensitiser insulin sensitiser type 2 diabetes II
Genitourinary disease R1646 overactive bladder 0
R873 GPCR agonist male erectile dysfunction II
Hematology R744 CERA continous erythropoietin receptor activator cancer-related anemia II
and nephrology R744 CERA continous erythropoietin receptor activator renal anemia III
Inflammatory, autoimmune R105 MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody rheumatoid arthritis, DMARD inadequate responders III Genentech and Biogen Idec
and bone diseases R105 MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody rheumatoid arthritis, anti-TNF inadequate responders filed Genentech and Biogen Idec
R127 Valcyte (valganciclovir) inhibitor of CMV replication ulcerative colitis I
R1295 rheumatoid arthritis I
R1503 kinase inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis II
R1541 inflammatory bowel disease I
R1569 Actemra (tocilizumab) humanised anti-IL-6 receptor monoclonal antibody rheumatoid arthritis III Chugai
R1569 Actemra (tocilizumab) humanised anti-IL-6 receptor monoclonal antibody systemic onset juvenile idiopathic arthritis III Chugai
R1594 humanised anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody rheumatoid arthritis II Genentech (PRO70769)
R1599 osteoarthritis 0
R3421 autoimmune diseases, transplantation I BioCryst
R99 CellCept (mycophenolate mofetil) IMPDH inhibitor lupus nephritis III Aspreva
R99 CellCept (mycophenolate mofetil) IMPDH inhibitor myasthenia gravis III Aspreva
Neurological and R1450 Alzheimer’s disease 0
psychiatric diseases R1647 depression 0
R1678 schizophrenia I
R641 Alzheimer’s disease 0
R7090 anxiety I
R7118 schizophrenia 0
Oncology R105 MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody chronic lymphocytic leukemia, relapsed III Genentech and Biogen Idec
R105 MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody chronic lymphocytic leukemia (1st line) III
R105 MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody indolent non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma – maintenance filed Genentech and Biogen Idec
R1273 Omnitarg (pertuzumab) anti-HER2 monoclonal antibody ovarian cancer II Genentech
R1273 Omnitarg (pertuzumab) anti-HER2 monoclonal antibody metastatic breast cancer II Genentech
R1415 Tarceva (erlotinib) EGFR inhibitor glioblastoma multiforme II Genentech and OSI Pharmaceuticals
R1415 + Tarceva+Avastin EGFR inhibitor + anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody NSCLC (1st line) – maintenance III Genentech and OSI Pharmaceuticals
R435 (erlotinib + bevacizumab)
R1415 Tarceva (erlotinib) EGFR inhibitor NSCLC (1st line) – combo with chemotherapy III Genentech and OSI Pharmaceuticals
R1415 + Tarceva+Avastin EGFR inhibitor + anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody NSCLC (2nd line) III Genentech and OSI Pharmaceuticals
R435 (erlotinib + bevacizumab)
R1415 Tarceva (erlotinib) EGFR inhibitor pancreatic cancer filed Genentech and OSI Pharmaceuticals
R1454 solid tumours I
R1492 epothilone D solid tumours II Kosan Biosciences (KOS862)
R1507 solid tumours 0
R1530 solid tumours I
R1550 monoclonal antibody metastatic breast cancer I Antisoma
R1594 humanised anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody hematologic malignancies I Genentech (PRO70769)
R1645 epothilone D solid tumours I Kosan Biosciences (KOS1584)
R340 Xeloda (capecitabine) fluoropyrimidine adjuvant breast cancer III
R340 Xeloda (capecitabine) fluoropyrimidine adjuvant colon cancer – combo III
R340 Xeloda (capecitabine) fluoropyrimidine metastatic colorectal cancer (1st line) – combo III
R340 Xeloda (capecitabine) fluoropyrimidine metastatic colorectal cancer (2nd line) – combo III
R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody NSCLC, squamous II Genentech
R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody adjuvant colon cancer III Genentech
R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody metastatic breast cancer (1st line) III Genentech
R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody metastatic breast cancer (1st line) – extension III Genentech
R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody metastatic colorectal cancer (1st line) – combo extension III Genentech
R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody renal cell carcinoma III Genentech
R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody NSCLC (1st line) III Genentech
R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody pancreatic cancer III Genentech
R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody ovarian cancer III Genentech
R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody prostate cancer III Genentech
R547 solid tumours I
R597 Herceptin (trastuzumab) anti-HER2 monoclonal antibody metastatic breast cancer – combo with hormonal therapy III Genentech
R597 Herceptin (trastuzumab) anti-HER2 monoclonal antibody adjuvant breast cancer III Genentech
R597 Herceptin (trastuzumab) anti-HER2 monoclonal antibody gastric cancer III
R925 Bondronat (ibandronic acid) bisphosphonate metastatic bone pain III
Respiratory diseases R35 (daclizumab) anti-CD25 monoclonal antibody asthma II PDL BioPharma
R411 dual integrin antagonist asthma II
R667 nuclear receptor agonist emphysema II
Transplantation R35 (daclizumab) anti-CD25 monoclonal antibody transplant maintenance I PDL BioPharma
Viral and R1206 HIV 0
other infectious diseases R1558 antibiotic bacterial infections II Sankyo (CS023)
R1626 HCV I
R1656 HCV I Pharmasset
R7025 HCV 0 Maxygen
R7128 HCV 0 Pharmasset
Participation through SG-75 Sigmart (nicorandil) acute heart failure filed
Chugai EPOCH Epogin (epoetin beta) chemotherapy-induced anemia III
CHS13340 recombinant parathyroid hormone osteoporosis II Daiichi Asubio Pharma
ED-71 activated vitamin D derivate osteoporosis III
AVS Antevas (nicaraven) hydroxyl radical scavenger subarachnoid hemorrhage filed
CAL humanised anti-PTHrP monoclonal antibody bone metastases II
CHC12103 solid tumours I Cell Therapeutics
CGS20267 Femara (letrozole) aromatase inhibitor breast cancer filed Novartis
GM-611 (mitemcinal fumarate) motilin agonist gastroparesis, irritable bowel syndrome II
VAL (valine) post-hepatectomy II
Participation through Raptiva (efalizumab) anti-CD11a antibody adult atopic dermatitis I
Genentech Lucentis (ranibizumab) antibody fragment to VEGF age-related macular degeneration filed Novartis Ophthalmics
Xolair (omalizumab) anti-IgE antibody pediatric asthma, peanut allergy II, III Novartis and Tanox
Opt-in opportunities PRO128115 VEGF topical VEGF diabetic foot ulcer I Genentech
BR3-Fc BAFF inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis I Genentech
R105 MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody primary progressive multiple sclerosis III Genentech and Biogen Idec
R105 MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody relapsed remitting multiple sclerosis II Genentech and Biogen Idec
R105 MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody lupus nephritis II Genentech and Biogen Idec
R105 MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody ANCA-associated vasculitis III Genentech and Biogen Idec
R105 MabThera/Rituxan (rituximab) anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody systemic lupus erythematosus III Genentech and Biogen Idec
R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody glioblastoma multiforme II Genentech
R435 Avastin (bevacizumab) anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody adjuvant breast cancer II Genentech
G-024856 topical hedgehog antagonist basal cell carcinoma I Genentech and Curis
PRO1762 Apo2L/TRAIL cancer I Genentech
R1564 vascular targeting agent solid tumours II Antisoma (DMXAA)
R1668 E2F modulator solid tumours I ArQule (ARQ501)
R1583 GLP-1 GLP-1 type 2 diabetes II Ipsen (BIM51077)
R1524 calcineurin inhibitor renal transplant II Isotechnika (ISA247)
R1495 non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV 0 Medivir
R1589 Alzheimer’s disease I Memory Pharmaceuticals
At the end of 2005 the Pharmaceuticals Division’s R&D pipeline comprised 108 projects, including Phase 0: Transition from preclinical to clinical development
59 new molecular entities (NMEs) and 49 additional indications. Fourteen NMEs are currently in phase 0, Phase I: Initial studies in healthy volunteers and possibly in patients
21 in phase I, 19 in phase II and five in phase III or filed for regulatory review. In 2005 13 projects entered Phase II: Efficacy, tolerability and dose-finding studies in patients
phase I development, 12 entered phase II and 13 entered phase III. Phase III:Large-scale studies in patients for statistical confirmation ofsafety and efficacy
Bluetype signifies first indication, blacktype additional indications. Therapeutic protein
Current as of 31 December 2005. Small moleculePharmaceuticals
Partnering for innovation
Partnering is a key element in Roche’s strategy
to develop innovative, differentiated medicines
for patients. Pharma Partnering (PP), the com-
pany’s business development and licensing
department, analyses over 1,500 external oppor-
tunities each year to find cutting-edge science
to complement Roche’s own R&D.
How does Roche find external innovation? ‘We focus
on emerging, innovative science,’ says immunologist
and marketing veteran Hari Kumar, one of PP’s ‘finders’.
‘Strategy teams tell us what they need, be it a drug for
a condition with no effective treatment or a technology,
and we go out and look for it.’ PP’s alliance directors take over once a deal is
approved. While the contract is being negotiated, they
Finders are specialists who combine scientific exper- prepare Roche for the project’s integration and ensure
tise with business acumen. Their job is to identify that communication with partners is open and clear.
opportunities that could lead to new treatments,
including new uses for existing Roche products. Throughout the process Roche relies on its core part-
nering values: flexibility, respect for partners’ culture
Once a finder identifies an opportunity, a larger PP and autonomy, and commitment that both sides will
team assesses it based on three key questions: Is the benefit from the collaboration. An organisation-wide
science viable and differentiated? Will the opportunity partnering culture helps ensure our continued access
complement Roche’s overall strategy? What is its com- to a broad range of external innovation and expertise.
mercial potential? Senior management then make a
decision based on the answers.
cancer (adjuvant setting) have shown that adding Extensive late-stage programmes studying Xeloda
Herceptin to chemotherapy significantly reduces in adjuvant breast cancer, in combination with
the risk of cancer recurrence in this population. chemotherapy in the adjuvant colon cancer setting,
US and EU filings for this indication are planned and in first- and second-line therapy of metastatic
for the first quarter of2006. colorectal cancer are continuing. Recent interim
analysis of a large collaborative group study of the
Tarceva,a human epidermal growth factor receptor drug as first-line treatment for advanced pancreatic
(HER1/EGFR) inhibitor, is designed to interfere cancer showed that adding Xeloda to standard
with a molecular signal that plays a significant role chemotherapy (gemcitabine) significantly extends
in tumour cell growth in numerous types ofcancer. patient survival and improves quality oflife.
It is currently being tested in the first-line and adju-
vant NSCLC settings and in combination with A head-to-head phase III study comparing Bon-
Avastin in second-line NSCLC.Tarceva is also being dronat and zoledronic acid in the treatment of
evaluated in the treatment of glioblastoma multi- metastatic bone pain has commenced,with results
forme,one ofthe most aggressive types ofprimary expected in 2007. Filings for this indication are
brain tumour. planned in the US and Europe.
28 Business Report 2005Pharmaceuticals
Hematology and nephrology (anemia) Development of Actemra (tocilizumab, formerly
Clinical development ofCERA,the first continuous MRA) in RA is progressing well.Phase III data from
erythropoietin receptor activator for the treatment Japan were presented at the American College of
of anemia, is progressing on track. The phase III Rheumatology meeting in November. They show
renal programme for this product includes six trials that treatment with Actemra significantly reduces
involving over 2,400 patients with chronic kidney the progression of joint damage and improves RA
disease (both on dialysis and not on dialysis).The signs and symptoms.Based on these data,Chugai
first four phase III trials in dialysis patients were plans to file a marketing application for Actemra
successfully completed at the end of2005.CERA is for RA in Japan in the first half of 2006. Patient
the only anti-anemia drug ever studied using long recruitment for international phase III trials is pro-
dosing intervals (once every four weeks) in all ceeding as planned.Regulatory filings in the US and
patients for its initial filing.Roche plans to file mar- EU are expected in 2007.In 2005 Chugai launched
keting applications worldwide for CERA in renal Actemra in Japan in its first indication,Castleman’s
anemia in 2006. Roche does not view the patent disease,a rare condition that causes severe enlarge-
infringement litigation initiated by Amgen in the ment ofthe lymph nodes.
US as an impediment to the development and
launch ofCERA in the United States. CellCept is being developed in collaboration with
Aspreva Pharmaceuticals for autoimmune applica-
Rheumatoid arthritis and autoimmune diseases tions, including the treatment of lupus nephritis
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disor- (kidney complications associated with the autoim-
der characterised by joint inflammation that, even mune disease lupus erythematosus) and myasthe-
when treated,can result in progressive joint destruc- nia gravis (a chronic autoimmune disease charac-
tion and,ultimately,loss offunction.Its exact cause terised by episodes of muscle weakness).Phase III
is unknown,and as yet there is no cure.Within two clinical trials of the drug in both indications are
years of developing RA,up to 70% of patients have under way.CellCept is the first potential new treat-
X-ray evidence of joint destruction,and within ten ment for either ofthese debilitating and sometimes
years 80% are unable to work or perform everyday fatal conditions in many years. In January 2006
tasks.RA is one of the most common autoimmune CellCept was designated an orphan drug in the
disorders and is now thought to affect over 21 mil- treatment ofmyasthenia gravis by the FDA.
lion people worldwide.Current treatments include
disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) Diabetes
and biologic therapy such as the anti-TNF drugs. Roche has now completed the two-year animal car-
cinogenicity programme for the insulin sensitiser
In 2005 Roche significantly advanced the devel- R483,required by the FDA for all members of this
opment oftwo medicines with the potential to sub- class of agents.A final decision on the commence-
stantially improve the treatment ofRA. ment of phase III clinical testing of the compound
in type 2 diabetes will be taken once the FDA and
MabThera/Rituxan is the first selectively targeted other agencies have completed their reviews of the
Bcell therapy to be studied in this disease.The US carcinogenicity data.
and EU filings in August and September for the
product’s first rheumatoid arthritis indication rep- Two other compounds being developed for the
resent a significant milestone.The filings,based on treatment of type 2 diabetes moved into phase II
data from the pivotal REFLEX trial,cover the use of clinical testing in 2005,a glucokinase activator and
MabThera/Rituxan in patients who have failed to a dipeptidyl peptidase (DPP-IV) inhibitor.
respond adequately to current biologic therapies,
the subgroup of RA patients considered to be the
most difficult to treat.Positive outcomes have also
been seen in a phase IIb clinical trial (DANCER)
with patients who had previously failed treatment
with one or more DMARDs.
Business Report 2005 29Pharmaceuticals
Setting new standards in cancer treatment
At the 41st meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO), in Orlando, Florida, in May Roche and its partners
presented data from an unprecedented eight major phase III trials that had successfully met their primary endpoints.
Product (generic name) Indication (clinical trial) Benefit
Avastin (bevacizumab) Metastatic HER2-negative breast cancer, 49% improvement in overall survival
1st line treatment (E2100)
Metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, 30% improvement in overall survival
1st line treatment (E4599)
Metastatic colorectal cancer, 24% reduction in risk of death
2nd line treatment (E3200)
Herceptin (trastuzumab) HER2-positive breast cancer, adjuvant treatment 52% reduction in risk of disease recurrence
(NSABP B-31 and NCCTG N9831, joint analysis)
HER2-positive breast cancer, 46% reduction in risk of disease recurrence
adjuvant treatment (HERA)
MabThera/Rituxan Relapsed indolent NHL, 100% improvement in response
(rituximab) maintenance treatment (GSLG) duration at 3 years
Tarceva (erlotinib) Pancreatic cancer, 1st line treatment (PA3) 23% improvement in overall survival
Expanding biotech production capacity The Oceanside (California) facility acquired by
Genentech from Biogen Idec last June is currently
In 2005 the Roche Group continued to reconfigure being converted to produce Avastin;manufacturing
its manufacturing capacities to meet the require- ofbulk drug substance is expected to commence in
ments ofa changing product portfolio and increase 2006,with FDA licensure expected in the first half
the efficiency of its global manufacturing opera- of2007.In 2005 Genentech received FDA licensure
tions.In particular,a shift from chemically derived for a new Avastin manufacturing facility in Porriño,
active pharmaceutical ingredients towards biolog- Spain.
ics and a corresponding trend towards sterile liquid
dosage forms are driving current activities in this Work on the new Basel (Switzerland) and Penzberg
area. Technical development activities also reflect production facilities for therapeutic antibodies,
the impact of the Pharmaceuticals Division’s both scheduled for technical completion in 2007,
dynamic R&D portfolio (including development ismoving ahead as planned.
of in-licensed products by Roche). Ongoing pro-
jects to further reduce supply chain complexity
andoptimise inventory levels remain on track. Access to medicines
Four major new facilities were dedicated last year: While the primary role of the Roche Pharmaceu-
new biotech production facilities for epoetin and ticals Division is to discover, develop and com-
CERA in Penzberg (Germany); a state-of-the-art mercialise innovative medicines, the adoption of
packaging and storage facility for injectable drugs policies that extend access to critically needed
in Mannheim (Germany); and a plant for high- products to people affected by poverty throughout
potency pharmaceutical products in Shanghai.The the world is an integral part ofhealthcare’s mission.
new Penzberg and Mannheim facilities have been Therefore, in addition to supporting local initia-
operational since the middle of2005.The Shanghai tives to expand healthcare access,Roche has imple-
facility,the first ofits kind in China,is scheduled to mented patent and pricing policies and joined
come on stream this year;it will produce CellCept major international efforts aimed at addressing this
and Xeloda for the Chinese market. problem.
30 Business Report 2005Pharmaceuticals
Roche does not file new patents for its medicines in steps taken include implementing a tiered pricing
the 50 Least Developed Countries (as defined by the system with significant reductions for pandemic
UN),nor does it enforce patents it already holds in use and licensing agreements with local companies
these countries. In response to the devastating for production of the drug for pandemic use in
HIV/AIDS pandemic, the company has extended India and China. In addition to taking unprece-
this policy to sub-Saharan Africa,the poorest and dented steps to ramp up Tamiflu production capac-
hardest-hit region. ity (see Meeting world demand for Tamiflu, p. 23),
Roche is working with the US National Institute of
The prices Roche charges for its products in low Allergy and Infectious Diseases and international
and lower-middle income countries are below the virology experts to expand the information base
corresponding prices in Switzerland at launch. regarding the optimal use of Tamiflu against the
Roche supplies the HIV medicines Invirase and H5N1 avian influenza strain.
Viracept at no profit to Least Developed Countries
and sub-Saharan Africa.As a result,reduced prices Access to medicines is an issue that affects more
for these products apply to 93% ofall people living than the developing world – it can pose significant
with HIV/AIDS worldwide. challenges in industrialised countries,as well.In the
United States,for example,Roche is committed to
In addition,Roche is a member ofthe Accelerating making sure that every patient who needs a Roche
Access Initiative,which is helping increasing num- drug has access to it,whether that patient is a senior
bers ofHIV/AIDS patients in developing countries citizen being treated for cancer,or a member of a
to receive treatment. The company also supports working family facing an organ transplant. The
two other HIV treatment access programmes, the Roche Patient Assistance Program, established in
CARE programme in four African countries and the 1960s, was the first in the industry to provide
the Cambodian Treatment Access Programme. In prescription drugs free of charge to qualifying
addition to providing funding,medicines and diag- patients who need them but lack prescription
nostics through these programmes,Roche has also coverage and the means to pay for them.
contributed to providing training in HIV/AIDS
care and treatment to hundreds of healthcare pro- Roche is also a founding member of the Partner-
fessionals from more than 14 African countries and ship for Prescription Assistance, a programme
Cambodia. (See also Ensuring access to healthcare sponsored by the Pharmaceutical Research and
worldwide,p.79,and visit www.roche-hiv.com.) Manufacturers of America, which represents the
country’s leading pharmaceutical research and
In its most recent move to extend access to vital biotechnology companies.The programme offers a
HIV/AIDS treatments in the world’s neediest areas, single point ofaccess to over 475 public and private
Roche announced in January 2006 that,as part of patient assistance programmes.
its new Technology Transfer Initiative,the company
will provide local manufacturers within sub- Similarly, Genentech provides its marketed prod-
Saharan Africa and Least Developed Countries with ucts free of charge to eligible uninsured patients
the technical expertise required to produce generic treated in the United States through the Genentech
HIV medicines.This assistance will be offered free Access to Care Foundation and the Genentech
and with no conditions attached. Endowment for Cystic Fibrosis.Genentech is also a
member of the Partnership for Prescription Assis-
The threat of an avian flu pandemic represents tance.To further support patient access to therapies
another critical global health challenge,and Roche for various diseases, in 2005 Genentech donated
is closely involved in ensuring that vital medicines approximately 21 million dollars to independent,
are available where they are most needed.Follow- third party, public charities that offer copayment
ing warnings by the WHO that the next global assistance to eligible patients.
influenza pandemic is imminent, Roche has been
doing all it can to ensure worldwide availability of
its influenza drug Tamiflu for pandemic use. The
Business Report 2005 31Diagnostics Division in brief
Sales in millions of CHF
2005 8,243
2004 7,827
2003 7,409
Operating profit before exceptional items1) in millions of CHF
2005 1,687
2004 1,670
2003 1,405
1) From 2004 including charges for all equity compensation plans.
Number of employees
2005 19,788
2004 19,109
2003 18,302
Key figures
% change % change in
In millions of CHF in CHF local currencies As % of sales
Sales 8,243 5 4 100
– Diabetes Care 2,886 4 3 35
– Centralized Diagnostics 2,906 6 5 35
– Molecular Diagnostics 1,171 6 5 14
– Near Patient Testing 718 6 5 9
– Applied Science 562 6 5 7
EBITDA 2,527 4 2 30.7
Operating profit1) 1,687 1 –1 20.5
Research and development 719 2 2 8.7
1) Before exceptional items.
Diagnostics Executive Team1 January 2006
Severin Schwan CEO Division Roche Diagnostics
Silvia Ayyoubi Human Resources
Heiner Dreismann Molecular Diagnostics
Christian Hebich Finance and Services
Tiffany Olson North America
Volker Pfahlert Centralized Diagnostics, Applied Science
Burkhard Piper Diabetes Care
Jürgen Schwiezer EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa)
Robert Yates Business Development
32 Business Report 2005Diagnostics
Results Sales by region
Roche Diagnostics maintained its leadership posi-
tion in a difficult market in 2005.Divisional sales
rose 4% in local currencies (5% in Swiss francs and Europe/Middle East/
Africa 49% (+5%)
in US dollars), broadly in line with global market
Japan 5% (+7%)
growth.
Asia–Pacific 7% (+13%)
Worldwide,Roche Diagnostics launched more than
Iberia/
20 new products in 2005,including a complete new Latin America 10% (+11%)
generation of products to replace older flagship North America 29% (–2%)
offerings in the division’s key diabetes management
portfolio. During the year the division also Italic = growth rate.
expanded into several new, high-potential market
segments,such as DNA sequencing.
Operating profit before exceptional items decreased
1% in local currencies to 1.7 billion Swiss francs, Business areas
resulting in a margin decline of 0.8 percentage
points to 20.5%. This was primarily due to heavy Diabetes Care
price pressures in the market, start-up costs for
new manufacturing facilities and new products Roche Diabetes Care,the market leader in diabetes
andhigher depreciation charges.The higher depre- management, posted sales growth of 3% in local
ciation resulted from an increase in instrument currencies.
placements.
The business unit launched a number ofinnovative
products in the second halfof2005.These included
Accu-Chek Compact Plus, a glucose monitoring
system with a built-in test strip drum and lancing
device, and Accu-Chek Aviva, a successor to the
Accu-Chek Advantage monitor. Also new on the
market in 2005 was the Accu-Chek Spirit,a menu-
driven insulin pump that sets new standards in
flexibility and reliability. In addition, the business
unit introduced Accu-Chek Pocket Compass 3.0,
its latest software for mobile diabetes self-man-
agement. It features a bolus calculator module
that enables users to calculate their bolus insulin
requirements on the basis ofcurrent blood glucose,
estimated food intake and several personal param-
Business Report 2005 33Diagnostics
Top selling product lines in 2005
Sales % change
Product line Market segment Business area in millions of CHF in local currencies
Accu-Chek Diabetes management Diabetes Care 2,458 3
Cobas Integra1), Clinical chemistry Centralized Diagnostics 1,165 –1
Roche Hitachi1)
Elecsys Immunodiagnostics Centralized Diagnostics 989 11
Amplicor tests, Clinical molecular Molecular Diagnostics 712 4
Cobas Amplicor diagnostics
Cobas AmpliScreen Nucleic acid-based Molecular Diagnostics 311 11
blood screening
CoaguChek Coagulation monitoring Near Patient Testing 183 13
1) Excluding HIAs (homogeneous immunoassays).
eters.With this new generation ofproducts,Roche term goal.Placements ofElecsys and E170 systems
Diagnostics continues to lead the way in three key advanced 24% for the year,reaching another record
areas of effective diabetes management: glucose high;and thanks to strong demand for the Elecsys
monitoring,insulin delivery and data management. proBNP assay, Roche became the leading supplier
of laboratory tests for cardiac markers. Sales of
There is a growing body of evidence documenting the Elecsys assay were helped by the more than
the benefits of regular blood glucose monitoring. 200 scientific papers published on NT-proBNP in
For the first time,a multicentre study has verified 2005 and by inclusion of this marker in patient
that glucose self-monitoring reduces morbidity management guidelines.(See patient story on p.65.)
and mortality among people with type 2 diabetes.
Findings like these are expected to motivate people Global trends such as mounting pressure on health-
with type 2 diabetes to monitor their glucose more care budgets,combined with a shortage of trained
closely. laboratory staff,mean that laboratories are increas-
ingly dependent on automated,integrated labora-
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has tory systems that offer cost-efficiency and high
completed its inspection of the Roche Diagnostics performance.This creates an ideal market environ-
facility in Burgdorf (Switzerland). The final deci- ment for the 2006 rollout of cobas 6000, a new
sion on whether to lift the US import alert on generation of modular analysers for medium-size
pumps made at the facility is still pending. laboratories.
Centralized Diagnostics Investments in new technologies to automate the
many tasks that precede and follow actual testing
Roche Centralized Diagnostics supplies integrated in the laboratory are beginning to pay off. An
total solutions for clinical laboratories. The busi- expanded cooperation agreement signed with
ness area reported 5% sales growth in local curren- the German company PVT Probenverteiltechnik
cies,taking the lead for the first time in this impor- in 2004 covering pre-analytical automation has
tant segment ofthe diagnostics market. strengthened our position as aleading provider of
total laboratory solutions. RSD-800/A, a new sys-
Growth was due primarily to the continued success tem providing complete pre-analytical automation,
of the immunodiagnostics portfolio. Roche is has already been successfully launched in nine
pursuing leadership in immunodiagnostics and in markets.
2005 moved a step closer to achieving this medium-
34 Business Report 2005Diagnostics
New markers point the way
to better care
Immunodiagnostics represent a major share of
the global in vitro diagnostics market — about
one-fourth at last count and still climbing.
Roche is tapping the potential of innovative
immunodiagnostic markers to address unmet
medical needs.
Immunodiagnostics exploit a basic feature of the body’s
natural defence system against disease. When viruses,
bacteria or other foreign substances (collectively
referred to as ‘antigens’) enter the body, it responds by
producing antibodies that bind to the antigens and neu-
tralise them. This response is highly specific: just as a data from an ongoing study of the assay at Gross-
key will normally fit only one lock, antibodies react only hadern University Hospital in Munich (Germany) are
with the antigens that stimulated their production. very encouraging. Following breast cancer surgery, a
blood test is done to determine baseline levels of the
‘Immunodiagnostic tests mimic this natural defensive tumour marker, and then further tests for the marker
reaction,’ explains Joachim Eberle, Head of Research are repeated at six-week intervals. A rise in CA 15-3
and Development at Roche Centralized Diagnostics. levels can indicate the growth of new cancer cells from
‘Because of their specificity, antibodies can be used to six to twelve months before a patient develops any
detect the presence of particular antigens in the body, symptoms — enabling physicians to take action sooner
and hence help in diagnosing disease.’ and save precious time. The natural mechanisms of
antibody-antigen interaction are thus giving new hope
The immunoassay CA 15-3, for example, identifies a to patients and health professionals.
tumour marker protein in breast cancer patients. Early
Molecular Diagnostics company to have tests for HIV-1,HCV and hepati-
tis B (HBV) approved by both the EU and the US
With sales growth of 5% and a market share of authorities for screening living-donor and cadav-
over 40%, Roche Molecular Diagnostics remains eric organs and tissues as well as blood and plasma.
the clear leader in an increasingly competitive Tissues from cadaveric sources, including skin,
market environment. Blood screening (+11%) bone and ligaments, are used in roughly one mil-
and virology (+8%) were again the main growth lion medical procedures per year and can transmit
drivers. the same viral infections as blood. Tissues from a
single donor are transplanted to an average of 50,
In the five years since Roche Diagnostics entered and insome cases to as many as 100 recipients.This
the blood screening market,over 100 million blood highlights the significance of the 2005 approvals.
donations have been screened using Roche’s HIV Towards the end of the year a regulatory filing was
and hepatitis C (HCV) tests. By 2004 Roche was submitted in Europe for the next-generation cobas
already the global leader in this sector by volume of s201 blood screening system,which is expected to
units tested,and in 2005 it became the first and only reach the market in 2006.
Business Report 2005 35Diagnostics
The core virology portfolio was strengthened in Near Patient Testing
2005 by the integrated Cobas AmpliPrep/Cobas
TaqMan system, which offers laboratories new Roche Near Patient Testing reported a 5% increase
capabilities for fully automated sample preparation in full-year sales,with positive growth in its three
and DNA/RNA analysis. In addition, three viral core segments:cardiology,coagulation monitoring
load tests for use on this platform were approved and blood gas/electrolytes.It is a leader in decen-
for marketing in Europe; the tests measure the tralised testing (testing outside the hospital labora-
amounts ofHIV,HCV and HBV in human plasma. tory) and patient self-monitoring.
Viral load is a key indicator for assessing disease
progression, treatment response and drug resis- Sales of coagulation monitoring products rose
tance. US regulatory filings for all three tests are 13%, with especially strong growth recorded in
planned in 2006 and 2007. theUnited States.A recent clinical trial has shown
that patient self-monitoring with the CoaguChek S
Roche Diagnostics’ LinearArray HPV Genotyping system can reduce the risk of severe complications
Test, which received CE mark approval in June, is and minor hemorrhages by up to 70% in patients
the only commercially available test capable of on oral anticoagulant therapy and that it can reduce
identifying 37 high- and low-risk genetic variants mortality after heart valve replacement by up to
of human papillomavirus (HPV). Although the 60%.These results support the cost-effectiveness of
majority of HPV infections clear spontaneously, patient self-monitoring and are further evidence of
persistent infection with high-risk HPV genotypes how modern diagnostics can help reduce the over-
is recognised as a significant risk factor for develop- all costs ofhealthcare.(See patient story on p.101.)
ment of cervical cancer. The new Roche test is
expected to contribute significantly to the early The market launch ofthe Cardiac NT-proBNP test
identification ofwomen at risk for cervical cancer. and out-licensing agreements for the marker NT-
proBNP are expected to boost sales in the cardiol-
In July 2005 Roche opened the world’s largest ogy sector.Cardiac NT-proBNP is used in doctors’
manufacturing facility for PCR-based products in offices and intensive care units to rule out heart
New Jersey (USA). PCR (polymerase chain reac- failure and to monitor heart failure patients.
tion) is a technique that can produce millions of
copies of virtually any DNA sequence in a short Placements of Roche Diagnostics’ blood gas and
time and thus aid in detecting infectious agents and electrolyte analysers doubled compared with the
genetic variations quickly and very reliably. Over year before.
the last four years Roche Molecular Diagnostics has
increased its kit output by 46%,and with the new Connectivity between remote testing devices is a
facility now on line it will be able to continue to critical element ofpoint-of-care testing in hospital
meet the steadily growing demand for these prod- settings. Roche’s cobas IT 1000 data management
ucts. software,launched in 2005,is a technological mile-
stone and already a worldwide commercial success.
The AmpliChip CYP450 Test, the first DNA The software connects Roche and non-Roche
microarray-based test for clinical diagnostic point-of-care devices within a hospital or hospital
use, received US regulatory clearance in January network.
2005, following approval and launch in Europe
in 2004. Three major laboratories in the United Applied Science
States have already added the test to their ser-
vice offerings. The test helps guide physicians in Roche Applied Science maintained its position in a
selecting the medicines and dosages most suitable fiercely competitive marketplace as sales rose 5%
for their patients and marks a major step towards for the year. The business area supplies high-tech
more personalised healthcare. (See patient story systems and reagents for research laboratories.
on p.9.) Spurred by new product launches, sales gathered
considerable momentum over the course of the
36 Business Report 2005Diagnostics
How diagnostics help take
the squeeze off healthcare
budgets
Diagnostics can help healthcare systems use
precious resources more efficiently. The fact is,
in addition to their medical benefits, diagnostic
tests can create economic value.
Although diagnostic tests provide the basis for about
two-thirds of all medical decisions, they account for
only 1% of healthcare expenditure. For many years, new
technologies were regarded as cost drivers. But look-
ing at the treatment process as a whole, it is clear that
innovative diagnostics can help make healthcare deliv- And once treatment is started, cutting-edge Roche
ery more cost-effective while also providing a sounder diagnostics enable physicians to monitor patients’
basis for medical decision-making. And they can help responses.
physicians tailor treatment more closely to theindivid-
ual needs of their patients. Modern tests, forexample, Roche Diagnostics is leading the way in researching
can make it easier to determine the best medicine and and developing innovative diagnostic tests that will
dosage for a particular patient. As a result, patients change the way medicine is practiced. As part of that,
receive better treatment and are less apt to suffer we are committed to promoting a better understanding
serious, costly adverse events. of the value of diagnostic information among all stake-
holders.
Virology provides some excellent examples of the eco-
nomic benefits of diagnostic products. Early diagnosis ‘At Roche Diagnostics we’re proactively pursuing
and effective treatment of hepatitis can prevent com- research that will document both the medical and
plications such as liver failure and liver cancer. Diag- the economic value of diagnostic information,’ says
nostic instruments and test kits from Roche make Geoffrey Crouse, Head of Market Development and
it possible to detect the virus very early on. Another Governmental Affairs. ‘In this context our key question
Roche test can then be used to establish the viral geno- is: How can we maximise the amount of health we get
type, so that treatment — with a novel medicine like for the money we spend?’
Pegasys — can be tailored to the infecting viral strain.
year,with the business area reporting a double-digit forms and marks Roche’s entry into the attrac-
increase in the fourth quarter. tive sequencing research market. Employing an
award-winning nanotechnology-based approach
Genome Sequencer 20 and LightCycler 480 were to sequencing, the system is the first product to
two of Roche Applied Science’s most important emerge from a strategic alliance formed in 2005
new offerings in 2005.The Genome Sequencer 20 between Roche and the technology’s US-based
system enables researchers to sequence long DNA inventor, 454 Life Sciences. Roche holds exclusive
fragments and entire genomes up to 100 times sales and marketing rights to 454 Life Science’s
faster than with other commercially available plat- sequencing systems for the life science market.
Business Report 2005 37Diagnostics
Major product launches in 2005
Business area Product
Diabetes Care Accu-Chek Aviva, high-end successor to the Advantage/Sensor blood glucose monitoring
system
Accu-Chek Pocket Compass 3.0, next-generation diabetes management software
Accu-Chek Integra, blood glucose monitoring system with fully automated test strip
handling
Accu-Chek Compact Plus, blood glucose monitoring system, with integrated strip drum and
lancing device for one-hand operation
Accu-Chek FlexLink infusion set
Centralized Diagnostics Cobas Integra 800 analyser with closed-tube sampling
Dedicated HbA1c (glycated hemoglobin) analyser on the basis of Cobas Integra 800
Improved reagents for prostate-specific antigen, myoglobin, troponin T and prolactin
forElecsys platforms
Molecular Diagnostics Integrated Cobas AmpliPrep/Cobas TaqMan Instrument (HCV, HIV, HBV), first fully
automated PCR system with assays for quantitative detection of HIV and hepatitis C and B
Cobas AmpliPrep/Cobas Amplicor HCV Qual v 2.0 for qualitative detection of hepatitis C
virus (US IVD)
Cobas AmpliPrep/Cobas Amplicor HIV Monitor, test for monitoring HIV viral load (USIVD)
Cobas AmpliScreen HCV, HBV and HIV-1 Tests for screening organ and tissue donations
(USIVD, new indication)
Cobas AmpliScreen HBV Test for detecting hepatitis B virus in human plasma (USIVD)
Linear Array HCV Genotyping Test for determining hepatitis C genotype (CE IVD)
Linear Array HPV Genotyping Test; identifies 37 genotypes of human papillomavirus
(CEIVD)
Cobas TaqMan 48 CT Test for Chlamydia(CE IVD)
AmpliChip CYP450 Test, microarray for drug metabolism testing (US IVD)
LightCycler 2.0 Factor II & V tests for factor II and V Leiden clotting disorders (CE IVD)
Near Patient Testing Cardiac NT-proBNP, rapid and accurate assay for the quantitative determination
ofNT-proBNP; used for the diagnosis and management of heart failure patients
CoaguChek XS, handheld system for coagulation self-monitoring
OMNI S Version 5.0, software update for the OMNI S blood gas/electrolyte system
cobas IT 1000, a new web-based data management solution for point-of-care testing
inhospitals
Applied Science Universal ProbeLibrary Set, innovative probe-based detection system for quantitative
PCRtests
Genome Seqencer 20, complete platform for high-throughput sequencing
LightCycler 480, novel platform for gene expression and mutation analysis
LightCycler 2.0, IVD version of the LightCycler 2.0 DNA amplification system (CE IVD)
IVD= for clinical use.
CE = European CE mark certification (Conformité européenne).
38 Business Report 2005Diagnostics
The LightCycler 480 real-time PCR system is a chips.A protein chip system (IMPACT) is currently
novel platform for gene expression and mutation undergoing feasibility studies and will be used
analysis. Combining speed with exceptional accu- initially to accelerate the clinical testing of new
racy,the new system supports all current probe for- markers.
mats and applications.
Molecular Diagnostics
Research and development Research activities at Roche Molecular Diagnostics
are focused on further advancing PCR and related
Research and development expenditure totalled technologies to enable development of new gene-
nearly 720 million Swiss francs (approximately based tests on the TaqMan and AmpliChip plat-
9%of sales),significantly more than the division’s forms. Roche is also working on new approaches
competitors spent. The molecular diagnostics, to increasing the total throughput of PCR-based
immunodiagnostics and diabetes care businesses analyses by testing for multiple viral or human
accounted for the largest shares ofexpenditure. genetic markers simultaneously in each run.
Diabetes Care In September 2005 Roche and the Mayo Clinic in
Minnesota (USA) signed an agreement to collabo-
Research and development efforts in this business rate on developing an IT-enabled drug and dose
unit are aimed at making diabetes management selection system for use in treating psychiatric
even simpler – for example by developing software patients. Information provided by the system will
geared to the special needs offrequent testers,who be based on patient test data obtained with the
have to cope with huge amounts ofdata. AmpliChip CYP450 Test.Mayo Clinic will explore
the use of the system for a wide range of psy-
In addition,Roche is working on minimally inva- chotropic drugs.This is an area of clinical practice
sive glucose measuring technologies requiring only where several drugs often have to be tried over a
a minute blood sample, or no sample at all, and long treatment cycle time in order to find the one
on continuous blood glucose monitoring systems. that is best for a particular patient.
The ultimate aim is to create an artificial pancreas,
a system capable of mimicking the natural pattern Molecular diagnostics are also steadily gaining in
ofinsulin release in healthy individuals. importance in oncology.Roche’s efforts in this area
are aimed primarily at developing tests for early
Centralized Diagnostics cancer detection and risk stratification,particularly
for solid tumours (such as cancers of the breast,
Roche Centralized Diagnostics develops total labo- prostate and colon) and leukemia. Candidate
ratory automation systems that increase laboratory markers have been identified and are currently
productivity while reducing costs and reliable diag- being evaluated for potential use in these important
nostic tests that contribute to better patient care. applications.
Key areas ofinterest include cardiovascular disease,
cancer and rheumatoid arthritis. A large-scale, international clinical research pro-
gramme investigating leukemia classification is
In addition,Roche is stepping up its research into under way and due to be completed in 2006.There
new biomarkers ofhigh diagnostic value in monitor- are over 20 different subtypes of leukemia, and
ing disease progression and evaluating treatment they do not all respond to the same treatments.
response.Biomarkers can be used singly or incom- Choosing the most effective available medication
bination as sources of information.Particularly in or type oftherapy right at the outset for a particu-
complex diseases like cancer, tests for multiple lar leukemia subtype is particularly important in
markers are often the only means of obtaining a the acute leukemias, which progress very rapidly.
conclusive result. Our next generation of systems The programme will compare results obtained with
will measure marker combinations using protein AmpliChip leukemia tests at different laboratories
Business Report 2005 39Diagnostics
Key product launches scheduled for 2006
Business area Product
Diabetes Care Accu-Chek Go S: Successor to the Accu-Chek Go meter, offering improved feature set
anddesign
Centralized Diagnostics cobas 6000 series: Consolidates clinical chemistry and immunochemistry testing for
medium- to high-workload laboratories; modular, expandable and reconfigurable on site
(up to 7 configurations), using cobas c501 and cobas e601 modules
cobas 4000 series: Consolidates clinical chemistry and immunochemistry testing for
small- to medium-workload laboratories; links cobas c311 and cobas e411 with the PSM
data manager
cobas c111 : Clinical chemistry and electrolyte analyser for extra-small-workload
laboratories (stand-alone system)
cobas IT 5000 solution: Laboratory information system that supports all steps of laboratory
testing from order entry to result reporting; features connectivity, sample management,
quality control and validation capabilities
cobas IT 3000 solution: Central lab data management system (WAM/Middleware) for
instrument interface consolidation, providing result-related reagent and test information
Molecular Diagnostics LightCycler SeptiFast Test (CE IVD): The world’s first diagnostic assay for detection of
sepsis causing pathogens directly from blood
cobas s201 MPV (CE IVD): Multiplex detection test for HIV, HCV and HBV for the cobas
s201 blood screening system
Cobas TaqMan 48 HCV v2.0: Test for monitoring HCV viral load
Applied Science Genome Sequencer S 100 System: Next-generation system with capability to sequence
larger genomes
LightCycler 480: 96-well, including new software modules; extension of LC 480,
allowinguse in a broader range of applications
for inter-laboratory robustness and is also intended Near Patient Testing
to confirm data from Roche gene discovery pro-
jects. A prototype test is expected to be ready for One medium-term goal for Roche Near Patient
further research applications at the end of2006. Testing is to develop mobile devices that can per-
form urgent medical tests anywhere in a matter of
Another microarray-based product currently in minutes.
development is the AmpliChip p53 Test. Several
research collaborations to investigate the potential The business area plans to have a complete line of
clinical applications of this test are scheduled for new instruments on the market by 2007 and has
2006.The p53 gene is one ofa family ofgenes called already begun refreshing its product portfolio with
tumour suppressors, which code for proteins that the pilot launch of the CoaguChek XS coagulation
prevent damaged cells from reproducing. Muta- monitor.This user-friendly next-generation device
tions of the p53 gene are found in virtually all has a built-in quality control system capable of
tumour types.By identifying mutations that affect detecting virtually any potential source of error
p53 function and activity,the AmpliChip p53 Test during testing,thus making anticoagulant therapy
may one day help physicians select the anticancer safer than ever before.
medicines best suited to their patients’needs.
40 Business Report 2005Diagnostics
Applied Science
Roche Applied Science focuses on developing high-
quality systems and reagents for use in life science
research, particularly in high-potential areas such
as proteomics and DNA sequencing and analysis.
For example, the business area is working to
broaden the research uses ofthe new,highly versa-
tile LightCycler 480 instrument. Innovative geno-
typing products and software upgrades will be
introduced in 2006.
Products to expand the applications ofthe Genome
Sequencer 20 are also due to reach the market in
2006 and 2007,and work is under way to make the
system even faster.
Access to diagnostics
The AmpliCare programme is one of the ways
Roche Diagnostics is helping to improve healthcare
delivery to HIV/AIDS patients in those parts ofthe
world where needs are greatest: in sub-Saharan
Africa and other countries designated by the United
Nations as ‘least developed’. Since its inception in
2002,the programme has been supplying HIV viral
load tests at sharply reduced prices, but tests are
only part of the story. Because sustainability and
continuity of care are so critical,we are contribut-
ing on other fronts as well – from providing
expanded training and continuing education
opportunities for doctors and nurses to supporting
efforts to monitor health outcomes.We also strive
to match our efforts to local needs.Working closely
with laboratories and hospitals, for example, we
determine what services or types oftechnical assis-
tance are feasible and most suitable and then
develop a targeted solution.
Roche Diagnostics plans to expand the AmpliCare
programme to additional countries,with the focus
now on reaching countries listed by the UN as
having low-income economies. Preparatory talks
have already been initiated for this purpose in
Eastern Europe, Latin America and additional
countries in Asia.
Business Report 2005 41‘The medication helps against my osteoporosis,
and I only have to take it once a month.’
42 Business Report 2005Growing older doesn’t have to mean
going slower
Senior sales account manager Ginger La Motta
(62), from Branchburg (New Jersey), dotes on
her four grandchildren and enjoys having them
ride on her shoulders. But a diagnosis of osteo-
porosis five years ago made her realise that even
simple pleasures like this could be a risk to her
health.
Osteoporosis is a bone condition common
among postmenopausal women. People tend
to think of bone as hard and unchanging. In fact
it’s a dynamic living tissue that is constantly
being broken down and rebuilt.After the
menopause, rebuilding can be slower, and bone
mass can decrease, making bones weaker and
more likely to break. Ginger eats a healthy diet
and exercises regularly.To keep her osteoporosis
under control she takes once-a-month Boniva,
the first once-monthly oral bisphosphonate.
Oral bisphosphonates must be taken in the
morning on an empty stomach. Patients must
then stay upright and not eat for at least another
half-hour or hour. Because of her busy schedule,
once-a-month Boniva was the ideal solution for
Ginger. Now she can reduce her risk of fracture
by taking just one tablet a month.And she’s much
more relaxed when playing with her grand-
children.
Prevention
Reducing the consequences of disease helps patients to maintain
quality of life. Boniva (ibandronic acid) maintains and actually
builds bone density, reducing the risk of fracture. Of course,
patients need to stay on therapy to benefit. And with once-
monthly Boniva, that’s become a lot easier: patients take only
12tablets a year.
Business Report 2005 43Board of Directors and
Executive Committee,
Corporate Governance
Board of Directors
and Corporate Executive Committee
Board of Directors she was an economist with the International Mon-
etary Fund and the World Bank in Washington,DC.
At the Annual General Meeting on 28 February
2005 John Bell, André Hoffmann and Franz B. If the Board’s proposals are adopted,Chairman of
Humer were elected to additional four-year terms the Board Franz B.Humer will continue to be the
on the Board ofDirectors. only director also serving in an executive capacity at
Roche,and the majority of seats on the Board will
The current Board terms of Rolf Hänggi, Peter be held by independent directors.
Brabeck-Letmathe, DeAnne Julius and Horst
Teltschik will end at the next Annual General
Meeting,on 27 February 2006.At that meeting the Corporate Executive Committee
Board intends to nominate Mr Brabeck-Letmathe,
Ms Julius, and Mr Teltschik for re-election as Heino von Prondzynski, CEO Division Roche
directors for terms offour years. Diagnostics,has decided to leave Roche this year to
pursue personal interests. Since joining Roche in
Rolf Hänggi,who has served as Vice-Chairman of March 2000 he has contributed significantly to the
the Board since 1996,has declined to stand for re- Diagnostics Division’s achievements,providing the
election.Mr Hänggi has become increasingly active leadership that has helped the division expand its
as a private investor in pharmaceutical start-up global market leadership so successfully.The Board
companies,a situation which could potentially give of Directors would like to take this additional
rise to conflicts between his own interests and those opportunity to thank Mr Prondzynski for his valu-
of Roche. This decision will help ensure his con- able contribution and to wish him all the best for
tinued independence in his other capacities. The the future.
Board ofDirectors and Corporate Executive Com-
mittee extend their sincere thanks to Mr Hänggi Severin Schwan joined the Corporate Executive
forhis many years ofdedicated service to the Group. Committee as the new CEO Division Roche Diag-
nostics on 1 January 2006. Schwan, a 38-year-old
In addition to the aforementioned three nominees Austrian with a doctorate in law and a degree in
for re-election,the Board will also recommend the economics, began his career at Roche in 1993 in
election of Beatrice Weder di Mauro to Roche’s theCorporate Finance department in Basel.Follow-
highest governing body. A 41-year-old native of ing several international assignments,he served as
Basel,Ms Weder di Mauro,has been a professor of Head ofGlobal Finance & Services for the Diagnos-
economics at the University of Mainz (Germany) tics Division from 2000 until being put in charge of
since 2001 and has served on Germany’s Council of the division’s regional operations in Asia–Pacific in
Economic Experts since August 2004.Prior to that, 2004.
44 Business Report 2005Board of Directors and Corporate Executive Committee
Board of Directors as of 1 January 2006 (from left):John Bell, Rolf Hänggi, Peter Brabeck-Letmathe, BrunoGehrig,
AndréHoffmann, Franz B. Humer, Lodewijk J.R. de Vink, DeAnne Julius, Walter Frey, AndreasOeri, Horst Teltschik
Name, year of birth Term endsFirst elected
Board of Directors
Dr Franz B. Humer (1946) D*, F Chairman 2009 1995
Prof. Bruno Gehrig (1946) C*, D, E Vice-Chairman and Independent Lead Director 2008 2004
Rolf Hänggi (1943)** A*, B, D, E Vice-Chairman 2006 1996
Prof. John Irving Bell (1952) C, E 2009 2001
Peter Brabeck-Letmathe (1944) E 2006 2000
Lodewijk J.R. de Vink (1945) A, E 2008 2004
Walter Frey (1943) B, E 2008 2001
André Hoffmann (1958) A, C, E 2009 1996
Dr DeAnne Julius (1949) B*, E 2006 2002
Dr Andreas Oeri (1949) B, E 2008 1996
Prof. Horst Teltschik (1940) A, E 2006 2002
Secretary to the Board of Directors
Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954)
Honorary Chairman of the Board of Directors
Dr Fritz Gerber (1929)
A Finance and Investment Committee. D Presidium of the Board of Directors/Nomination Committee.
B Audit and Corporate Governance Committee. E Non-executive director.
C Remuneration Committee. F Executive director.
** Committee chairperson.
** Will step down on 27 February 2006.
1 January 2006.
Business Report 2005 45Board of Directors and Corporate Executive Committee
Burkhard G.Piper has been named to the Enlarged Effective 1 January 2006, Eduard Holdener, Peter
Corporate Executive Committee, an appointment Hug, Rolf Schläpfer and Osamu Nagayama were
which also became effective 1 January 2006.The 46- also appointed members of Roche’s Enlarged
year-old German, who holds a degree in business Corporate Executive Committee.All four men had
administration, joined the Boehringer-Mannheim been assisting executive management as permanent
group, later acquired by Roche, in 1985. He held participants on the Committee since 1 January
several management positions in marketing before 2005.
being appointed General Manager of Roche Diag-
nostics Canada in 1999 and then Head of Roche
Centralized Diagnostics in 2002. Mr Piper has
headed Roche Diabetes Care since the end of2005.
Mr Piper’s predecessor, Staffan Ek, retired at the
end of the year. The Board of Directors thanks
MrEk for his very significant role in strengthening
Roche’s diabetes care business and his contribution
to the success ofthe Group as a whole.
46 Business Report 2005Board of Directors and Corporate Executive Committee
Corporate Executive Committee as of 31 December 2005 (from left):Jonathan K.C. Knowles, Pierre Jaccoud,
Heino von Prondzynski (until 31.12.05), Staffan Ek (until 31.12.05), William M. Burns, Eduard Holdener, Franz B. Humer,
PeterHug, ErichHunziker, Rolf Schläpfer, Gottlieb A. Keller, Osamu Nagayama
Name, year of birth Position
Corporate Executive Committee Dr Franz B. Humer (1946) CEO of the Roche Group
Dr Erich Hunziker (1953) Chief Financial Officer and Deputy Head
of the Corporate Executive Committee
William M. Burns (1947) CEO Division Roche Pharmaceuticals
Heino von Prondzynski (1949)1) CEO Division Roche Diagnostics
Prof. Jonathan K.C. Knowles (1947) Head Global Research
Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954) Head Corporate Services and Human Resources
Enlarged Corporate Dr Eduard Holdener (1945) Head Global Pharma Development
Executive Committee Dr Peter Hug (1958) Head Pharma Partnering
Staffan Ek (1945)2) Head Business Area Diabetes Care
Rolf Schläpfer (1956) Head Corporate Communications
Osamu Nagayama (1947) President and CEO Chugai
Secretary to Pierre Jaccoud (1955) Head Chairman’s Office
the Corporate Executive Committee
Statutory Auditors KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler SA (since 2004)
of Roche Holding Ltd Principal auditor: John A. Morris (since 2004)
and Group Auditors
Compliance Officer Dr Andreas Greuter (1949) (direct dial number: +41 (0)61 688 75 37)
1) From 1 January 2006: Dr Severin Schwan (1967).
2) From 1 January 2006: Burkhard G. Piper (1961).
End of 2005. Business Report 2005 47Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance
The Roche Group meets all of the requirements • the Finance and Investment Committee
with respect to Corporate Governance complying (Chairman:RolfHänggi)
with the existing legal regulations,the SWX (Swiss • the Remuneration Committee
stock exchange) directives (including their Com- (Chairman:Bruno Gehrig)
mentaries) and the Swiss Code of Best Practice for
Corporate Governance as promulgated by the Swiss All the committees except the Presidium are
business federation ‘economiesuisse’. The existing chaired by independent directors.
internal company regulations, in particular the
company’s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, The Bylaws of the Board of Directors, containing
consider all the principles that govern the manage- details on the internal structure of the Board, the
ment and supervision of our company including allocation of authority and responsibilities, the
the necessary checks and balances in order to mandates of the Board committees and the infor-
ensure good corporate governance1). mation and control mechanisms available to the
Board in its dealings with corporate management,
We combine the printed Annual Report with key are published on the Internet.2)
links to the Roche website (www.roche.com) which
enables readers to gain both a snapshot at the Under Articles 4.2.2 and 6.2/6.3 ofthe Bylaws ofthe
reporting date and an up-to-date overview of the Board ofDirectors,the Independent Lead Director
company’s key corporate governance information. may, at his own decision or at the request of any
The Annual Report contains all the information member, convene a Board meeting without the
available up to 31 December ofthe given year,while attendance of the Chairman. The Roche Board
the Internet provides a source of permanent and meets once a year to assess the Chairman’s perfor-
constantly updated information. The company’s mance.This meeting,which is held in the absence
Articles of Incorporation,the Bylaws and the cur- of the Chairman, is chaired by the Independent
ricula vitae of the members of the Board of Direc- Lead Director.
tors and the Executive Committee are regularly
updated and made available on the Internet for all The Board ofDirectors periodically conducts a self-
those who require information. assessment ofits performance.In 2005 a self-assess-
ment focusing on a number of areas, including
Organisational structure of the Board cooperation between the Board and the Executive
of Directors Committee,was conducted with the assistance ofa
specialist consulting firm.
Roche’s Board of Directors is organised so as to
ensure that the Group’s businesses are conducted Remuneration
responsibly and with a focus on long-term value
creation. Therefore, the Board of Directors of Remuneration of members of the Board
Roche Holding Ltd delegated certain responsi- ofDirectors
bilities to several committees.As at 1 January 2006 In 2005 the members of the Board of Directors
these committees were: received the remuneration shown in the table
‘Remuneration of members of the Board of
• the Presidium ofthe Board ofDirectors/ Directors’for serving on the Board.
Nomination Committee
(Chairman:Franz B.Humer)
1) http://www.roche.com/home/company/com_gov.htm
• the Audit and Corporate Governance Committee
2) http://www.roche.com/home/company/com_gov/
(Chairman:DeAnne Julius) com_gov_bylaws.htm
48 Business Report 2005Corporate Governance
Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors
Additional compensation 2005
Remuneration 2005 for committee members3)
(in CHF) (in CHF)
F.B. Humer [300,000]4) –
B. Gehrig 450,0005) –
R. Hänggi 400,0006) –
J. Bell 300,000 10,000
P. Brabeck-Letmathe 300,000 –
L.J.R. de Vink 300,000 10,000
W. Frey 300,000 10,000
A.Hoffmann 300,000 20,000
D.A. Julius 300,000 10,000
A. Oeri 300,000 10,000
H. Teltschik 300,000 10,000
Total 3,550,000 80,000
3) Per committee membership/year, excluding members of the Presidium and vice-chairmen: CHF 10,000.
4) The remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board F.B. Humer (the only executive member of the Board of Directors)
isdeducted from his agreed salary (see ‘Remuneration of members of the Corporate Executive Committee’).
5) Remuneration for serving as Independent Lead Director and Vice-Chairman of the Board.
6) Remuneration for serving as Vice-Chairman of the Board.
Remuneration and additional compensation paid Remuneration of members of the Corporate
to non-executive members of the Board of Direc- Executive Committee
tors for serving in the aforementioned capacities The Remuneration Committee decides on the
totalled 3,330,000 Swiss francs in 2005 (previous remuneration of the members of the Corporate
year:3,165,000 Swiss francs). Executive Committee (cash payments,bonus,stock
options, S-SARs and [approving in principle]
The non-executive members of the Board of pension fund benefits) and the Board of Directors
Directors were not awarded any shares,non-voting upon proposal of the Remuneration Committee
equity securities (NES),Stock-settled Stock Appre- decides on the Performance Share Plan (PSP).
ciation Rights (S-SARs)7) or stock options in 2005
and, as of 31 December 2005, held no unvested The compensation components of the S-SARs and
options awarded in previous years. the PSP plan are intended to align compensation
with the long-term success ofthe company.
In connection with the acquisition of GlycArt
on 25 July 2005 (see Finance Report, Note 8 and In 2005 the members of the Corporate Executive
34 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Committee received the salaries, bonuses, stock
Statements ‘Changes in Group organisation’ and options/Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights
‘Related parties’, page 53 and 88), the Group paid (S-SARs) and non-voting equity securities as
Rolf Hänggi 1,731,248 Swiss francs in considera- shown in the following tables on page 50.
tion for his shareholding in GlycArt.This is equiva-
lent on a per-share basis to the amounts paid to Members of the Corporate Executive Committee
other shareholders for their GlycArt stock. additionally receive annual expense allowances of
30,000 Swiss francs; the Chief Executive Officer
Otherwise,no additional remuneration was paid to receives an annual expense allowance of 50,000
members ofthe Board ofDirectors. Swiss francs.In2005 the members ofthe Corporate
Executive Committee in total received expense
allowances totalling 200,000 Swiss francs.
7) Refer to ‘Stock options/Stock-settled Stock Appreciation
Rights (S-SARs)’, page 53.
Business Report 2005 49Corporate Governance
Remuneration of members of the Corporate Executive Committee
A. Cash payments (in CHF)
Annual salary Annual salary Annual salary Bonus Bonus Bonus
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
F.B. Humer 6,030,000 6,030,000 6,030,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
W.M. Burns 1,425,000 1,200,000 1,200,000 900,000 800,000 600,000
E. Hunziker 1,567,500 1,470,000 1,470,000 900,000 800,000 600,000
G.A. Keller 662,500 530,007 417,498 350,000 300,000 120,000
J.K.C. Knowles 1,200,000 1,025,001 929,500 700,000 600,000 360,000
H. von Prondzynski 1,262,500 1,150,000 1,098,750 700,000 700,000 500,000
Total 12,147,500 11,405,008 11,145,748 4,550,000 4,200,000 3,180,000
B. Stock options/Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
S-SARs8) Stock options Stock options
2005 2004 2003
(value in CHF9) (value in CHF9)) (value in CHF9))
F.B. Humer 1,779,389 1,780,338 1,780,100
W.M. Burns 711,806 712,135 445,100
E. Hunziker 711,806 667,606 445,100
G.A. Keller 266,911 222,642 89 100
J.K.C. Knowles 533,823 489,652 311,600
H. von Prondzynski 667,310 578,709 356,100
Total 4,671,045 4,451,082 3,427,100
8) Refer to ‘Stock options/Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)’, page 53.
9) Black-Scholes valuation as described in section ‘Stock options/Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)’, page53.
Richard T.Laube stepped down from the Corporate three years in which this programme is in effect.
Executive Committee on 31 December 2004 and has Performance will be evaluated on the basis ofmarket
left the company on 30 June 2005.In 2005 Richard price and dividend yields, i.e. ‘Total Shareholder
T.Laube received continuing salary,bonus and sev- Return’(TSR). In order to reduce the effect of any
erance payment totalling 1.86 million Swiss francs. short-term market price fluctuation, the TSR is
based on the average market values for the last three
C. Performance Share Plan (PSP) months (October until December 2004) before the
The members of the Corporate Executive Commit- beginning ofthe programme compared to the aver-
tee and other members ofsenior management whose age ofthe last three months (October until Decem-
performance has a major impact on Roche’s ability ber) in 2007.Ifan investment in Roche securities is
to achieve its corporate objectives (some 50 indi- equal to or outperforms 75% of the peer set and if
viduals worldwide) participate in the new PSP pro- Roche’s own TSR increased at least 10% during the
gramme 2005–2007, which was established at the duration of the programme,the Board ofDirectors
beginning of 2005 for a three-year period. Under can elect to increase the number of NES awarded
theprovisions ofthis programme which replaced the maximum up to two-fold. In the event that an
PSP programme 2002–2004,a number ofNES were investment in Roche securities underperforms the
reserved for the participants.The actual distribution
of securities will depend on whether and to what
10) Peer set: Abbott Laboratories, Altana, Amgen, AstraZeneca,
extent an investment in Roche securities (shares and
Bayer, Becton Dickinson, Biogen Idec, Bristol-Myers
NES) will outperform the average return on invest-
Squibb, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson,
ment in securities issued by a peer set10)of 20 com-
Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Serono, Sanofi-Aventis, Schering
panies operating in the same industry during the AG, Schering-Plough, Takeda, Wyeth.
50 Business Report 2005Corporate Governance
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Number
Number of NES
of NES originally
targeted targeted PSP (2005–2007) PSP (2002–2004)
under the PSP under the value assumption11) value12)
2005-2007 PSP 2002-2004 for 2005 for 2004
(number) (number) (value in CHF) (value in CHF)
F.B. Humer 48,028 50,886 3,158,641 4,440,652
W.M. Burns 9,557 10,127 628,532 883,750
E. Hunziker 11,708 12,405 769,996 1,082,543
G.A. Keller 4,380 3,460 288,058 301,943
J.K.C. Knowles 8,363 7,173 550,007 625,964
H. von Prondzynski 9,159 7,088 602,357 618,546
Total 91,195 91,139 5,997,591 7,953,398
11) Value assumption for 2005: evaluated using the year-end price as of 31 December 2005 (CHF 197.30 per Genussschein
[NES]), based on the number of NES originally targeted, subject to changes of the allocation and value of the number of
NES originally targeted under the plan on 31 December 2007 and spread over the relevant period of time, i.e. 1⁄ for the year
3
2005. The Board of Directors will vote on the actual allocation of NES originally targeted on 31 December 2007 according
to the TSR growth achieved.
12) Value for the year 2004 under PSP 2002–2004, after doubling of number of NES originally targeted according to the market
value growth achieved and spread over the relevant years of the total period of the effective time of the plan.
average return delivered by the peer companies reserved for members of the Corporate Executive
fewer or no NES will be awarded. In 2005 under Committee as shown in the table above.The Board
the provisions of this programme NES have been ofDirectors will decide on the actual distribution of
Roche performance in 2005
Roche-TSR Peer Group
average
TSR-performance1)
1.1.2005 31.12.2005 1.1.2005 31.12.2005
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 140
The value of CHF 1001) invested 120
on 1.1.2005 100
80
60
40
20
0
Roche market capitalisation in billions of CHF 113 171
Roche securities in CHF Non-voting equity security (NES) 130.90 197.30
Share 150.00 219.20
1) Prices translated at constant CHF exchange rates.
TSR = stock price plus dividend.
Business Report 2005 51
001
251
001
611Corporate Governance
NES or cash equivalent under the plan after the close D. Indirect benefits
ofthe 2007 reporting year. Employer contributions that were made in 2005
to social security schemes, pension plans and a
Over the last years Roche securities (shares and Group-wide employee stock purchase plan (Roche
NES), including dividend yields, have outper- Connect) in respect of members of the Corporate
formed the average return delivered by the peer Executive Committee are shown in the below table
pharmaceuticals and diagnostics companies. ‘Indirect benefits’.
Roche ranked second at the end of the PSP pro- Under Roche Connect,a voluntary stock purchase
gramme 2002–2004. During this time the market plan,employees have the opportunity to buy Roche
value of Roche increased from 102 billion Swiss non-voting equity securities (NES) up to an
francs to 113 billion Swiss francs, equivalent to a amount equal to 10% of their annual salary at a
growth of10.8% or 11 billion Swiss francs.The dis- 20% discount.NES purchased under this plan are
tribution of dividends totalled 3.8 billion Swiss subject to a holding period,which in Switzerland is
francs. four years.
Under the current PSP programme 2005–2007 E. Other remuneration, emoluments and loans
(which is based on a moving three-month average to corporate officers
at constant exchange rates) Roche after one year Gottlieb A. Keller has taken out a mortgage loan
ranked number one (compared with the peer set of of 492,500 Swiss francs with the Pension Fund of
20 companies operating in the same industry). F.Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd at an interest rate of4.2%
p.a. The interest rate on this loan is fixed until
Roche’s market value increased from 113 billion 31December 2006.
Swiss francs as per 31.12.2004 to 171 billion Swiss
francs,equivalent to a growth of51% or 58 billion Pension obligations to seven former members of
Swiss francs as per 31.12.2005.The distribution of the Corporate Executive Committee or their widows
dividends in 2005 totalled 1.725 billion Swiss were transferred to the pension fund in 2005; a
francs. one-time payment of 1,536,688 Swiss francs was
made to the fund to cover the resulting addi-
In 2005 the average Total Shareholder Return (TSR) tionalliabilities.Pensions totalling 1,946,568 Swiss
ofthe peer set (at constant exchange rates) was sig- francswere paid totwo former Corporate Executive
nificantly lower at 16%. Thus the TSR of Roche’s Committee members.
securities at 52% in 2005 is 36% points higher than
the average TSR of the peer companies at constant Otherwise, no additional remuneration was paid to
exchange rates. current or former members ofthe Corporate Execu-
tive Committee.
Indirect benefits
Pension funds/MGB13) AHV/IV/ALV14) Roche Connect
(in CHF) (in CHF) (in CHF)
F.B. Humer 2,723,261 985,101 50,004
W.M. Burns 686,572 298,401 30,000
E. Hunziker 527,923 261,629 38,653
G.A. Keller 165,242 95,494 15,939
J.K.C. Knowles 854,960 173,804 22,500
H. von Prondzynski 850,648 217,518 27,916
Total 5 808,606 2,031,947 185,012
13) MGB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation
supplementing occupational pension benefits).
14) AHV/IV/ALV: Swiss social security programmes providing retirement, disability and unemployment benefits.
52 Business Report 2005Corporate Governance
F. Highest total remuneration Stock options/Stock-settled Stock Appreciation
The Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO Rights (S-SARs)
Franz B.Humer was the member ofthe Board and
the member ofthe Corporate Executive Committee At 31 December 2005 the members of the Corpo-
with the highest total remuneration in 2005 (please rate Executive Committee held options/(S-SARs
refer to ‘Remuneration ofthe members ofthe Cor- as of 1 January 2005) as shown in the table on
porate Executive Committee’). Subject to changes page54.
in the allocation and computations relating to the
three-year PerformanceShare Plan PSP 2005–2007
his salary was as follows:
Highest total remuneration (in CHF)
2005 2004 2003
Cash payments 7,030,000 7,030,000 7,030,000
Stock options/S-SARs
(value based on Black-Scholes formula15)minus 11%) 1,779,389 1,780,338 1,780,100
Performance Share Plan16) (3,158,641)17) 4,440,652 4,440,652
Pension funds/MGB18) (2,723,261)19) (2,740,991)19) (2,283,460)19)
Roche Connect 50,004 50,004 40,629
Total (value) 14,741,295 16,041,985 15,574,841
15) Black-Scholes valuation as described in above section ‘Stock options/Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)’.
16) Refer to ‘Remuneration of members of the Corporate Executive Committee, C. Performance Share Plan (PSP)’, page 50.
17) Not paid out in 2005.
18) MGB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation
supplementing occupational pension benefits).
19) Payments into pension schemes.
Shareholdings All of the options shown in the table were issued
by Roche as employee stock options. Each option
The Directors André Hoffmann and Andreas Oeri entitles the holder to purchase one Roche non-
and members of the founder’s family who are voting equity security (NES;Genussschein).
closely associated with them belong to a share-
holder group with pooled voting rights.At the end Under the terms of this well established option
of2005 this group held 80,020,000 shares (50.01% plan,the strike price of the options shown was the
of issued shares). André Hoffmann serves as closing price for Roche NES on the trading day
spokesman of this shareholder group. Detailed prior to the Roche Annual Media Conference.All of
information about this group will be found in the options shown are non-tradable.One-third of
the Finance Report, Note 34 to the Roche Group the options are subject to a vesting period of one
Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Related par- year,one-third have a vesting period of two years,
ties’, page 88) and in the Notes to the Financial and one-third a vesting period of three years.
Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (page 104). In Unvested options lapse without compensation if a
addition, as of 31 December 2005 the non-execu- member voluntarily leaves the company, while
tive members ofthe Board ofDirectors and persons vested options must be exercised within a limited
closely associated with them held 176,475 shares; period oftime.Ifthey were tradable,the fair value
the members of the Corporate Executive Commit- of the options would be calculated at the date of
tee and persons closely associated with them held issue based on the Black-Scholes formula and after
546 shares at the same date. deducting 11% for the average two-year vesting
period.
Business Report 2005 53Corporate Governance
Stock options/S-SARs
Number of Stock options/S-SARs (as of 2005) held
on 31 December 2005 by the members of the Executive Committee
200520) 2004 2003 2002
Total number 223,602 125,966 182,381 10,604
Strike price in CHF 123 129,50 77,80 115,50
Expiry date 3.2.2012 3.2.2011 25.2.2010 26.2.2009
Allotment value per stock option/
S-SAR as of 2005, in CHF
(value based on Black-Scholes formula minus 11%) 20.89 31.92 16.27 30.10
20) S-SARs.
The S-SARs shown in the above table were issued by Relationship to Group auditors and statutory
Roche on 1 January 2005 on the basis ofthe ‘Roche auditors
Long-Term’program and instead of stock options.
An S-SAR is the right to benefit financially from the At the Annual General Meeting of Roche Holding
increase in value of a non-voting equity security Ltd on 28 February 2005, KPMG Klynveld Peat
(NES;Genussschein) between the grant date and the Marwick Goerdeler SA (KPMG) was elected as
exercise date.The strike price of the S-SARs under Group auditors and statutory auditors (informa-
the terms of this perennial plan was the closing tion on the appointment ofthe Group auditors and
price for Roche NES on the trading day after to the the date on which the principal auditor took up
Roche Annual Media Conference. On the third office is provided on page 47).The Group auditors
anniversary ofthe grant date,all remaining S-SARs and statutory auditors participate in the Audit and
shall be vested.One-third ofthe S-SARs are subject Corporate Governance Committee meetings. The
to a vesting period of one year, one-third have a auditors make written and oral reports on the
vesting period oftwo years,and one-third a vesting results of their audits. The Audit and Corporate
period of three years.Vested S-SARs must be exer- Governance Committee oversees and assesses the
cised within seven years after the grant date (i.e. auditors and makes recommendations to the Board
exchange ofS-SARs gain for NES) and unexercised (for information on the responsibilities of the
S-SARs lapse without compensation. If they were Audit and Corporate Governance Committee, see
tradable,the fair value ofthe S-SARs would be cal- Article 8.121) of the Bylaws). The Group auditors
culated at the date of issue based on the Black- and statutory auditors participated in three meet-
Scholes formula and after deducting 11% for the ings of the Audit and Corporate Governance
average two-year vesting period. Committee in 2005.
The strike price,expiry date and allotment price are The reports ofthe Group and statutory auditors are
shown in the above table.The value of the options set forth on pages 95 and 107, respectively, of the
and S-SARs in the table ‘Remuneration ofmembers Finance Report ofthis Annual Report.
of the Corporate Executive Committee, B. Stock
options/Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights KPMG received the following remuneration for
(S-SARs)’on page 50,was based on the calculation their services as Group auditors and as statutory
method used at the time ofissue. auditors of Roche Holding Ltd and other Roche
financial companies:
21) http://www.roche.com/home/company/com_gov/
com_gov_bylaws.htm
54 Business Report 2005Corporate Governance
(in millions of CHF) 2005 2004 Capital structure
Auditing services 14.0 10.4 •Information on Roche’s capital structure is
Audit-related services 1.9 1.7 provided in the Finance Report, the Notes to
Tax consultancy services 0.6 1.3 the Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd
Total 16.5 13.4 (page 104).Additional details are contained in the
Articles ofIncorporation ofRoche Holding Ltd22).
The Group auditors and statutory auditors are •Changes in equity are detailed in the Finance
elected each year by the Annual General Meeting. Report, the Notes to the Financial Statements of
Ernst & Young Ltd received the following remuner- Roche Holding Ltd (page 104).
ation for their services as the auditors ofGenentech •The Company has a share capital of 160,000,000
and Chugai: Swiss francs, divided into 160,000,000 fully paid
bearer shares with a nominal value of1 Swiss franc
(in millions of CHF) 2005 2004 each.There are no limitations on the transfer of
Genentech and Chugai audits 4.4 3.3 these shares and no cap on voting rights. Upon
Other consulting services provided deposit,shares can be voted without any restric-
to Genentech and Chugai 0.5 1.0 tions.
Total 4.9 4.3 •There is no authorised or conditional capital.
•In addition,702,562,700 non-voting equity secu-
Additional information relating to corporate rities (NES) have been issued in bearer form.They
governance do not form part ofthe share capital and confer no
voting rights.Each NES confers the same rights as
Group structure and shareholders one share to participate in available earnings and
•Roche’s operating business is organised into two in any liquidation proceeds following repayment
divisions:Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics. of the share capital.Roche’s NES and rights per-
The Pharmaceuticals Division comprises the taining thereto (incl.the provisions securing their
three business segments Roche Pharmaceuticals, claims) are described in §4 of the Articles of
Genentech and Chugai. Incorporation ofRoche Holding Ltd.
The Diagnostics Division consists offive business •Information on debt instruments which have
areas: Diabetes Care, Near Patient Testing, Cen- been issued and on outstanding bonds is provided
tralized Diagnostics, Molecular Diagnostics and in the Finance Report, Note 30 to the Roche
Applied Science.Business activities are carried out Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Debt’,
through Group subsidiaries and associated com- page 80).
panies. Significant subsidiaries and associated •Additional information on employee stock
companies are listed in the Finance Report,Note options is provided in the Finance Report,Note 14
37 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial State-
Statements (‘Subsidiaries and associated compa- ments (‘Employee stock options and other equity
nies’,pages 92 to 94). compensation benefits’,page 64).
•Major shareholders are listed in the Finance •Roche has issued no options apart from those
Report,Notes 31 and 34 to the Roche Group Con- which have been awarded to employees or issued
solidated Financial Statements (‘Equity attribut- in connection with debt instruments.
able to Roche shareholders’ and ‘Related parties’, •Neither the options awarded to employees nor the
pages 84 and 88) and in the Notes to the Financial debt instruments which have been issued have any
Statements ofRoche Holding Ltd (page 104). effect on Roche’s share capital.
•André Hoffmann and Andreas Oeri serve on the
Board ofDirectors as representatives ofthe share-
holders with pooled voting rights and receive the
remuneration mentioned in ‘Remuneration of
members of the Board of Directors’ above. No
other relationships exist with the shareholders
22) http://www.roche.com/home/company/com_gov/
with pooled voting rights. com_gov_arti.htm
•There are no cross-shareholdings.
Business Report 2005 55Corporate Governance
Board of Directors and Corporate Executive – the Finance and Investment Committee:three
Committee meetings
•Information on each member of the Board of – the Remuneration Committee:two meetings
Directors (including the years in which they were •There are no management contracts which fall
elected and the years in which their terms end) within the meaning ofSubsection 4.3 ofthe SWX
and Corporate Executive Committee is listed on Directive on Information relating to Corporate
pages 44 to 47. Curricula vitae and other infor- Governance.
mation about Board and Executive Committee
members (including information on board mem- Participatory rights of shareholders
berships) are available on the Internet23). •The participatory rights of shareholders are
•None ofthe non-executive members ofthe Board defined in Roche’s Articles ofIncorporation.25)As
ofDirectors has been a member ofthe Corporate Roche shares are issued to bearer, there are no
Executive Committee of Roche or any of the restrictions on admission to Annual General
Group subsidiaries during the three financial Meetings,with the exception that shares must be
years preceding the current reporting period. deposited within a specified period before the date
•The internal organisation of the Board of Direc- of a meeting and an admittance card must be
tors and the division ofauthority and responsibil- issued in the shareholder’s name, as provided in
ities between the Board and management are §12 of the Articles of Incorporation. Any share-
governed by the Bylaws24). holder can elect to be represented by another
•The Board of Directors has established a system shareholder at an Annual General Meeting. The
of controls which is overseen by the Audit and Articles of Incorporation contain no restrictions
Corporate Governance Committee and consists on the exercise ofvoting rights,and the only quo-
ofthe following elements: rum requirements are those stipulated in §16.
– Reports on financial and operating risks •Under §10.2 of the Articles of Incorporation,
– Internal audits shareholders representing shares with a nominal
– Compliance Officer value ofat least 1 million Swiss francs can request
– Safety, Health and Environmental protection the placement of items on the agenda of an
department Annual General Meeting. This must be done no
– Corporate Sustainability Committee later than 60 days before the date ofthe meeting.
– Scientific and Ethics Advisory Group (SEAG)
for issues relating to genetics and genetic engi- Change of control and defensive measures
neering (established 1999). •The Articles of Incorporation contain no provi-
•Each year several black-out periods are imposed sions on the mandatory bid rule. Swiss law
during which all senior employees are prohibited applies.
from trading in company stock. The following •There are no change-of-control clauses. Those
black-out periods are in effect for 2006: components of remuneration based on Roche
1 January to 1 February NES would be terminated in the event ofan acqui-
1 April to 26 April sition, and vesting period restrictions on pre-
1 July to 20 July existing awards would be removed,so that all such
1 October to 17 October options could be immediately exercised.
Black-out periods can be changed by the Chair-
man of the Board of Directors if circumstances
warrant.
•The Board of Directors held a total of five meet-
ings in 2005. The Board committees met as fol-
23) http://www.roche.com/home/company/
lows in 2005:
com_gov.htm
– the Presidium of the Board of Directors/
24) http://www.roche.com/home/company/
Nomination Committee:five meetings
com_gov/com_gov_bylaws.htm
– the Audit and Corporate Governance Commit-
25) http://www.roche.com/home/company/
tee:four meetings com_gov/com_gov_arti.htm
56 Business Report 2005Corporate Governance
Information policy Compliance Officer
•As provided by §33 of the Articles of Incorpora-
tion26), corporate notices are published in the The Compliance Officer is committed to ensuring
Swiss Official Gazette of Commerce (Schwei- that Roche corporate principles are consistently
zerisches Handelsamtsblatt) and in other daily complied with throughout the Roche Group and
newspapers designated by the Board of Directors also serves as a contact person for shareholders,
(Basler Zeitung, Finanz und Wirtschaft, L’Agefi, employees, customers, suppliers and the general
LeTemps,Neue Zürcher Zeitung). public on issues relating to the implementation of
and compliance with these principles. Employees
•Roche reports its half-year and full-year results in and other parties who become aware of violations
business reports published in print and online ofRoche corporate principles can bring them to the
formats and at media events. In addition, first- attention oftheir managers or supervisors or report
and third-quarter sales figures are published each them to the Compliance Officer (Andreas Greuter,
year in April and October.Current dates ofpubli- direct phone number:+41(0) 61 688 75 37).Such
cations are available in English and German on disclosures will be treated as confidential.Employ-
the Internet27). ees who make such disclosures will not be penalised
•All relevant information and documents,includ- by the company for doing so,but are not immune
ing all other media releases and presentations from prosecution for legal violations. The Com-
to analyst and investor conferences, are avail- pliance Officer submits regular reports to the Audit
able in English and German on the Internet. and Corporate Governance Committee.
Further publications can be ordered by e-mail,
fax or telephone (basel.webmaster@roche.com;
tel.+41 (0)61 688 83 39;fax +41 (0)61 688 43 43).
•The contact address for Investor Relations is:
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Investor Relations,
Corporate Finance, 4070 Basel, Switzerland;
tel.+41(0)61 688 88 80,fax +41(0)61 691 00 14.
Additional information,including details on spe-
cific contact persons,is available on the Internet28).
Non-applicability/negative disclosure
It is expressly noted that any information not
contained or mentioned herein is non-applicable
or its omission is to be construed as a negative
declaration (according to the requirements of the
SWX Corporate Governance Directive, including
the Commentary).
26) http://www.roche.com/home/company/
com_gov/com_gov_arti.htm
27) http://www.roche.com/home/media/med_events.htm
28) http://www.roche.com/home/investors/inv_contact.htm
Business Report 2005 57Responsible and sustainable management
Responsible and sustainable
management
Sustainability – an integrated Indexes (DJSI World) and the Dow Jones STOXX
approach Sustainability Indexes (DJSI STOXX) and further
improved its position in 2005.Roche also met the
Roche strives to create sustainable, value for all FTSE4Good criteria and thus remains a member of
major stakeholders.Economic,social and environ- the FTSE4Good Index Series.This is a clear sign of
mental progress are interdependent and influence recognition ofour efforts in this area.
each other. Only companies that create economic
value have the resources to make an active commit-
ment to society and the environment.At the same Networked structures on a firm footing
time, business success is not feasible without an
intact environment and a society that embraces The Corporate Sustainability Committee (CSC)
both achievement and innovation. was established in 2002 and the Corporate Sustai-
nability Charter was adopted by Roche’s Corporate
Sustainability is a hallmark of Roche’s core busi- Executive Committee and Board of Directors in
ness.After all,our corporate strategy as a research- 2005. The Charter describes the mission, context,
based corporation is by its very nature long-term, composition and procedures ofthe Corporate Sus-
given that research and development cycles often tainability Committee. This committee drafts and
last decades.We accept the associated risks in order coordinates our strategy for sustainable develop-
to develop innovative diagnostic products and ment and reports on efforts and progress in this
medicines that help to save lives or at least alleviate area; it is also responsible for developing and
suffering.This is where we see our most important amending corporate guidelines. The Corporate
contribution to society.In 2004 Roche was selected Sustainability Committee is authorised to appoint
for inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability World cross-divisional,cross-functional expert groups to
develop or review position statements and rules.
Further information on the Charter can be found at
www.roche.com/en/sust-commcharter.pdf.
The Corporate Sustainability Committee reports
directly to the Chairman and CEO and submits
regular reports to the Board ofDirectors’Audit and
Corporate Governance Committee. Its networked
structure and ability to rely, as required, on the
expertise of line and functional managers ensures
that it is firmly embedded in the organisation and
enjoys the support of senior management, thus
promoting the integration of sustainable develop-
ment into all Group operations.
On 15 March 2005 Roche’s Corporate Executive
Committee appointed the CSC Core Team:
• Pierre Jaccoud,Chair;Secretary to the Corporate
Executive Committee and Head ofthe Chair-
man’s Office
• Peter Bieri,Head ofCorporate Audit
58 Business Report 2005Responsible and sustainable management
• Andreas Greuter,Compliance Officer • Erwin Schneider,Head ofCorporate Finance
• Peter Heer,Head ofPublic Affairs Accounting and Controlling
• Gottlieb Keller,Head ofCorporate Services • Peter Schnurrenberger,Head ofCorporate Safety,
and Human Resources Health and Environmental Protection
• Horst Kramer,Delegate ofthe Diagnostics • Dianne Young,Secretary,Corporate Finance
Division Investor Relations
• Karl Mahler,Head ofCorporate Finance
Investor Relations
• Bruno Maier,Head ofCorporate Law and Patents How we deal with risks
• Christopher Murray,Delegate ofthe Pharmaceu-
ticals Division As part ofthe business plan,the most material risks
• RolfSchläpfer,Head ofCorporate Communica- to achieving the company’s goals are identified and
tions assessed by the Group Risk Management team.
‘An innovation mindset
promotes sustainability’
Roche has been working for a number of years
with Professor Ulrich Steger, Director of the
Forum for Corporate Sustainability Management
at the IMD in Lausanne, Switzerland.
Professor Steger, what prompted IMD and Roche
to start working together?
In our Forum for Corporate Sustainability Management,
of which Roche is a member, we have thoroughly
analysed the link between a company’s core strategy
and sustainability. Roche management wanted to bet-
ter understand the company-specific drivers behind
sustainable development. One key finding: Roche has in safety, health and environmental protection, in risk
already closely tied in its business model with sustain- management, in research or in the corporate culture
ability. generally.
Why is this so? How does Roche benefit from the co-operation
First of all, the history of Roche as a family-owned firm with IMD?
plays an important role. The tradition of commitment to The demands being made on research-based health-
which Roche has pledged itself has been demonstrab- care companies are steadily increasing. Issues such as
ly present since the company was founded and is very the cost explosion in healthcare, access to medicines
much alive at Roche today. Secondly, Roche stands out or transparency in clinical trials are some examples
from its competitors on account of its level of innova- of changing dynamics in the healthcare sector. Our
tion. The sharp focus on developing novel approaches co-operation will, we hope, show how the business
automatically results in sustainable business practices. model can be brought even more closely into line with
Thirdly, management is both professional and thorough the demands of business sustainability particularly in
in the way it links the business model to sustainability. areas such as these.
There are abundant examples of how Roche seeks
innovative – and not simply pragmatic – solutions, be it Further information on IMD at: www02.imd.ch
Business Report 2005 59Responsible and sustainable management
‘To date a total of 259 trials
have been registered’
Beat Widler, Head of Global Clinical Quality Assurance,
Roche
In 2005 Roche began making information on all
clinical trials available publicly. How did this
come about?
The debate surrounding clinical trial transparency
prompted Roche to create the desired open communi-
cation quickly and unbureaucratically. We wanted to
reinforce the confidence of the public and patients in
clinical trials. We evaluated various internal options and
then decided to build up a registry that is managed by
an independent company – CenterWatch – and not by
Roche itself. At present – i.e. as at the end of 2005 – 259 The feedback – both inside Roche and outside – is
studies have been entered in the registry, 218 of them positive. We have about1,600 visitors a week; two thirds
ongoing and 41 completed. By autumn 2006 we expect of them are private users, for instance patients who
to include a further 170 studies. would like to find out about clinical trials and their
results.
Which studies are registered?
All ongoing trials as of Phase II that received initial regu- What has been your experience with this project?
latory approval after October 2002 and that Roche lead- I’m pleasantly surprised. I’ve never seen a project
manages. Moreover, all completed studies are registe- implemented so quickly and efficiently. The registry is
red, regardless of whether the outcome was made public. not only important for patients and the public at large,
it also supports a number of efforts being undertaken
What feedback have you received on the project? at Roche to ensure that colleagues in various teams
How is the Internet site with the registered trials and countries have a faster and clearer overview of our
accessed? own clinical trials.
The Corporate Sustainability Committee, which ciated factors and to define a Roche position with
is involved in these risk assessment processes, is regard to these values.
responsible for assessing the SEE (social,environ-
mental and ethical) risks that it identifies.
Roche complies with ethical standards
Roche is confident that the institutionalisation of
sustainable core ethical values throughout the com- Roche and its employees are committed to comply-
pany is a necessary precondition for an effective ing with all relevant local,national and internation-
approach. al laws and with Roche’s own guidelines, which
often go beyond such legislation. These standards
For the coming year, the key areas for sustainable are based on the Roche Corporate Principles,
development have been defined. These relate pri- which – together with Roche directives,guidelines
marily to animal experimentations,clinical studies and regulations – comprise the Roche Code ofCon-
and new technologies such as nanotechnology. duct.As of2006,a specially developed,interactive,
Roche undertakes to continually evaluate the asso- computer-based learning program covering the
60 Business Report 2005Responsible and sustainable management
standards will be deployed worldwide at every hier- prompted by two objectives. For one thing, the
archical level.Since this is an issue ofcrucial impor- information is meant to help patients – in consulta-
tance, it is vital that we ensure that all Roche tion with their physicians – to find clinical trials in
employees actively participate in this programme. which they can participate.For another,practising
Roche companies in the United States,which have physicians and other healthcare professionals will
their own compliance programmes, are exempted be able to obtain a balanced overview of clinical
from this programme.(For further information on the trial results. (Further information can be found at
Code of Conduct, please go to http://www.roche.com/ www.roche-trials.com)
en/home/company/com_gov/com_gov_cond.htm)
You will find the Roche Corporate Principles on the Ethical responsibility in research and
Internet at www.roche.com/en/home/company/com_ development
gov/com_gov_cond/com_gov_princ.htm.
In the day-to-day work of developing new medi-
The Corporate Sustainability Report also addresses cines and diagnostic tests,ethical issues often arise.
societal issues. In this context the enforcement of Roche has therefore taken a clear position on
our policies and procedures addressing fraud and research in human subjects that is brought to the
bribery/corruption is tracked. Reported cases of attention of all employees.(Further information can
violations are followed up and the necessary mea- be found at www.roche.com/pages/downloads/sustain/
sures taken. pdf/poshumsubres.pdf)
A Global Ethics Liaison office was established in
Research activities at Roche meet 2004 to drive the systematic resolution of such
rigorous ethical standards issues; it is open to all Roche employees. In 2005,
37 queries were submitted on issues ranging from
Innovation is the key to success in all our business trial plan design to data protection and compensa-
endeavours. But research implies responsibility, tion for patients in clinical trials. If the problem
because groundbreaking science inevitably entails cannot be satisfactorily solved together with the
risks as well as opportunities. We have set high Liaison office,the case can be referred to an internal
ethical standards for our research activities.Roche body.Where necessary,an external advisory group
has issued clear directives governing the ethical may be consulted.(Further information on the Roche
considerations to be observed in genetic research, Framework for Discussing and Resolving Ethical Issues
clinical trials,animal experiments,etc.We thereby in Human Subject Research at www.roche.com/sust-
provide our scientists with decision-making tools resethissclint.pdf)
that are backed up by targeted continuous training
events.Roche was the first company in the industry,
back in the1990s,to set up an external ethics body Responsible animal experiments
that advises and supports internal research depart-
ments. At Roche as at all research-based healthcare compa-
nies,the appropriate and responsible use ofanimal
experiments is an essential part of biomedical
Clinical trial protocol registry and research,and the majority ofsuch experiments are
clinical trial results database therefore prescribed by the authorities.For the past
three years Roche has been gathering data on glob-
We believe that Roche has an ethical obligation to al research within the company.The aim is to dis-
ensure that scientifically or clinically relevant data cuss the type and scale of the projects with the
from its clinical trials are made available to the research managers and,together with them,to seek
public.In early 2005 Roche was the first company in ways to optimise the use of animals in research
the industry to set up a clinical trial protocol reg- without jeopardising the quality ofthe work or the
istry with an independent host. This idea was safety ofpatients.
Business Report 2005 61Responsible and sustainable management
For the past year the data,include not only figures Biodiversity and bioprospecting
from all research sites but also from contractual
partners. More than 95% of all animals used for Roche recognises that the issue of biodiversity and
experiments are rats and mice and about 0.5% are the retention of traditional skills is of growing
non-human primates.Roche does not simply ‘out- importance,particularly for low-income countries.
source’ the most difficult experiments, but con- Roche supports the principles of the UN Conven-
ducts these within the company, thus taking full tion on Biological Diversity of1992.Roche’s global
responsibility for them.With the aid of innovative position (Global Roche Statement on Biodiversity)
technologies such as biomarkers, the company is can be found at www.roche.com/pages/downloads/
endeavouring to further reduce the number of sustain/pdf/ropos_biodiv.pdf.
experimental animals used.This is also a cost-effec-
tive approach.
Nanotechnology
We take the public’s concern about the use of ani-
mals for scientific research very seriously. Roche Roche tracks all new technologies closely to assess
endeavours to set the highest ethical standards. whether they can help improve our products,ser-
Thus,by the end of2006,all Roche research centres vices or processes.Nanotechnology is one such new
are to be accredited by the AAALAC (Association technology.We are studying the ethical and social
for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory implications ofthis form ofminiaturisation as well
Animal Care International). The largest Roche as its potential practical applications. An expert
research centres have already been certified. In group within the Corporate Sustainability Com-
future,furthermore,all contracts with third parties mittee at Roche is currently drafting a position
will include a clause stipulating that the AAALAC paper on nanotechnology which is due to be com-
requirements must be met and that Roche reserves pleted early in 2006.
the right to conduct audits to verify this.
The care and use ofanimals within the Roche Group Stem cell research
will be more intensively coordinated in future.As a
first step,Roche has appointed one person to organ- Roche is generally interested in relevant scientific
ise the Group’s training activities in this area.These developments,for instance in stem cell research and
efforts are to be backed up by a global network.(Fur- its applications. Currently, however, Roche is not
ther information can be found at www.roche.com/ engaged in any activities in the area of therapy
home/sustainability/sus_res/sus_res_anim.htm) using replacement tissue from stem cells,nor does
it employ any such methods or technologies.More-
over, Roche has decided not to engage in human
Genetics and bioethics cloning for reproductive purposes.
In the1990s Roche – assisted by recognised inter- Roche has developed a clear position on stem cell
national experts – drew up the Roche Charter on research, related applications and cloning, which
Genetics,and has since been working together with can be found at www.roche.com/sust-posstem-
an independent body,the Science and Ethics Advi- cells.pdf.
sory Group (SEAG). Regular meetings are held at
which SEAG advises Roche on matters relating to
the Charter in particular and to genetics in general. Marketing
In 2005,for example,SEAG addressed issues relat-
ing to ethics,biomarkers and genomics,formulated Roche has established and implemented a number
recommendations on these issues and reviewed ofinternational guidelines on the design and use of
the corresponding position papers submitted by advertising material and websites and on the struc-
Roche.(Further information on SEAG can be found at turing of events. These globally applicable rules
www.roche.com/en/sci_eth_chart.htm) ensure that the use ofadvertising material complies
62 Business Report 2005Responsible and sustainable management
with all the legally valid regulations. (For further Roche regularly reviews its quality standards and
information, see www.roche.com/en/sus_eth_guidel_ systems and constantly develops them.This review
prom.pdf.) However, Roche goes further than the and development task ranges from conducting
legal provisions We have, for instance, recognised internal audits to systematically monitoring pro-
the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers duct quality, analysing trends and promptly res-
ofAmerica Guidelines on Direct-to-Consumer Ad- ponding to complaints from our customers.
vertising. These guidelines will come into force at
Roche in 2006 and will be reinforced through trai-
ning programmes.Moreover,we have implemented Protection against counterfeits
the European marketing code of the European
Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries’Associa- As counterfeit pharmaceutical or diagnostic pro-
tions (EFPIA) within Roche. For this purpose, we ducts not only violate property rights but also jeo-
have drafted a number of internal guidelines that pardise the health of patients and can undermine
the General Managers of the Roche companies are confidence in the health system, Roche combats
responsible for implementing. (For further infor- such forgeries rigorously.In 2005 Roche established
mation, see www.roche.com/en/home/sustainability/ a global policy outlining the measures in place to
sus_eth/sus_eth_mark.htm) prevent counterfeits.In addition to technical mea-
sures relating to design, labelling and packaging,
these focus primarily on monitoring the market
Ensuring product safety and agreeing with business partners on clearly
defined arrangements and audits. If forgeries are
Roche products must not only be effective – above discovered,Roche immediately informs the autho-
all,they must be safe.At Roche a large number of rities and – ifappropriate – also the general public.
people work in the area of drug safety,where they
seek to protect patients from adverse drug reac-
tions. They do this by identifying such effects as
early as possible and classifying them in terms of
their severity. This is important, as many undesi-
rable effects – headache, for example – may be
harmless by comparison with the disease that is
being treated (e.g.a life-threatening condition such
as cancer).In each case,the benefits ofevery medi-
cine must be weighed against the risks involved.
The employees working in the area of drug safety
systematically monitor all Roche products around
the world,even after they have been registered.In
2005,staff reviewed and assessed a total of 70,000
reports ofadverse drug reactions.Once an undesi-
rable effect is identified, the product information
has to be supplemented accordingly in conjunction
with the responsible authorities.
Roche is committed to a comprehensive quality
management system that ensures the quality,safety
and efficacy of its medicines and diagnostic tests.
Roche standards are based on the specifications laid
down by recognised international bodies and
healthcare authorities.Each and every employee is
responsible for ensuring that the guidelines are
fully complied with in his or her area. Moreover,
Business Report 2005 63‘Suddenly I realised my life
was hanging by a thread.’
64 Business Report 2005The tale of a life-saving diagnosis
of heart failure
Mohinder Pratap Johar is an easy man to
admire. He eats healthily, makes sure he gets
enough physical activity and, at 78, still leads
a busy life. But things might have turned out
quite differently. In 2002 he started feeling tired
and short of breath, instead of his usual fit self.
His doctor diagnosed high cholesterol and put
him on medication, but that didn’t seem to help.
Fortunately, this was all happening about
the time the Elecsys proBNP cardiac test was
launched in Mohinder’s native India, and
he had the test done at the renowned Delhi
Heart and Lung Institute.
The results showed an alarming rise in the
blood levels of a protein produced by the heart,
indicating that Mohinder was suffering from
heart failure, a condition in which the heart
muscle is no longer pumping efficiently. Further
examinations revealed that Mohinder’s life
was hanging by a thread.Three of the arteries
supplying blood to his heart were clogged,
putting him at risk for a massive heart attack.
He immediately underwent bypass surgery.
In the meantime Mohinder has resumed
virtually all of his normal activities. He prefers
not to dwell on what might have happened
without that heart test.
Diagnosis
Getting a fast, accurate diagnosis can be a matter of life and
death. Within minutes Elecsys proBNP can determine whether
a person with shortness of breath has heart failure — even
in the early stages of the disease, when conventional tests fail.
It can thus help prevent disease and promote earlier treatment,
and sometimes it can help save lives.
Business Report 2005 65Dialogue with our
stakeholders
Listening and learning from our and analysts to discuss our performance and to gain
stakeholders feedback about their expectations.Roche will con-
tinue to ensure that all market players receive regu-
The term ‘stakeholder’ refers to any individual or lar updates on our business strategy and business
group of individuals having an influence on or performance. Roche is committed to transparent
interest in our company’s ability to achieve its and fair reporting that is available simultaneously
objectives. These include in particular – but not to all market players,as outlined in our communi-
only – employees, patients, medical and scientific cation policy.(Further information can be found at
personnel,investors,the authorities,suppliers and www.roche.com/communic_pol_e.pdf). Feedback
the media.Our relationships with stakeholders are on our performance is important,and for this rea-
based on the general commitments set out in our son we participate in a number of investor-rela-
Corporate Principles, but are also geared specifi- tions-targeted external surveys, including the
cally to the concrete needs ofboth sides. Thomson Extel and Institutional Investor Research
Group surveys,as well as additional surveys on our
Our customers website and in our Annual Report. In the 2005
Thomson Extel Survey, the Roche Investor Rela-
Roche strives to excel in every area,including that tions team in the Pharmaceuticals Division was
of customer relations. We are happy to receive awarded first place ahead of all our competitors.
positive feedback from our customers,in particular (Further information on investor relations can be found
patients and medical specialists,but we regard even at www.roche.com/en/home/investors.htm)
complaints as an important source of information
on possible improvements. We aim to respond Employees and employee organisations
quickly to the needs ofour customers and develop
sustainable relationships. We communicate with Roche believes that our business depends on the
patients who benefit from our products and talent and performance of dedicated employees.
services through the following channels: the A crucial factor for success therefore is recruiting,
healthcare professionals who pass on patients’ motivating, developing and retaining outstanding
views to us, product-related websites such as people. We make every effort to promote open,
www.accu-chek.com or www.bonepain.com and two-way communication in the company and to
patient organisations. foster cooperation in cross-divisional and cross-
border teams. The key elements of our human
Holders of shares and non-voting equity resource management are set out in the Roche
securities, and investors Employment Policy. (Further information at
www.roche.com/en/home/sustainability/sus_soc/sus_
It is in our own interest to cultivate close and trans- soc_comm/com_gov_emp.htm)
parent relations with our shareholders: holders of
shares and non-voting equity securities and finan- The Roche Employment Policy states,among other
cial analysts help decide on the future focus of things,that it is the right of every employee to be
Roche and expect to be kept up to date.We engage part of an employee organisation, and Roche is
in an ongoing, frequent and substantive dialogue ready to work together in open dialogue with legal
with our shareholders through numerous channels employee representatives in all the countries in
such as management roadshows, broker confer- which it operates. In 2005 there was no major
ences, visits to Roche, teleconferences and Roche- restructuring or reduction in personnel.
organised events on topics of key interest.During
2005 management met with over 2,500 investors
66 Business Report 2005Dialogue with our stakeholders
Our most important stakeholders and their significance for Roche
Employees Approximately 25% of sales revenue is used by Roche for compensation of our employees.
With over 9.0 billion Swiss francs for salaries, Roche provides 68,218 employees in over100
countries with attractive jobs.
Holders of shares and The trust that holders of shares and non-voting equity securities have in Roche’s strategy
non-voting equity securities and management is important for our success. In 2005, 2.15 billion Swiss francs or 32% of
profits were paid out in the form of dividends. 68% of profits are invested in the long-term
increase in the company's value.
Patients and the medical and Our products are sold in over150 countries and are instrumental in improving the quality
scientific community and of life and often in prolonging life. Last year we invested 5.705 billion Swiss francs in the
its professional associations research and development of new products and services. More than 130,000 patients who
are participating in clinical trials benefit from the latest drug developments.
Public sector In 2005, Roche paid taxes amounting to 2,224 million Swiss francs; it thus makes a
considerable contribution to the financing of state infrastructure and programmes.
In addition to the relationship oftrust and cooper- that we can continue to develop and provide effi-
ation between management and employee repre- cient solutions for health problems by safeguarding
sentatives at the local level, the Roche Europe an environment that is receptive to research and
Forum – in which employee representatives from open to innovation.We therefore consider it to be
different countries meet with members of Roche important to engage in dialogue with political de-
management – has proved to be a sound basis.The cision-makers and legislators at both the regional
Roche Europe Forum represents approximately and the national level. We also seek contacts with
30,000 employees,i.e.about 44% ofthe workforce. their counterparts on the European and the interna-
Roche does not keep records on employees’mem- tional stage. Such direct contacts go hand in hand
bership oftrade unions or on the degree ofunion- with our efforts within industry organisations.
isation at individual affiliates. According to local
estimates,about a quarter (25%) ofRoche employ- Society, non-governmental organisations and
ees are members ofa trade union and slightly over interest groups
60% are represented by some form of employee
organisation. Roche cultivates long-term cooperative relation-
ships with non-governmental organisations
Authorities and the public sector (NGOs). The Group plays an active role in these
partnerships, primarily by contributing human
Roche strives to maintain relationships with the resources and know-how, and to a lesser extent
relevant health authorities and players in the public through funding.The following is a selection from
sector that are long term, strategically driven and the full list of organisations and initiatives that
transparent. We are active in a political and legal Roche works with or is involved in:
environment that is highly complex and is governed
by international and regulatory intricacies.Our goal • National and international business and industry
is to be involved at an early stage in the political associations
processes that are relevant for our business,so that • World Business Council for Sustainable Develop-
we can intervene proactively.We present our posi- ment (WBCSD):Roche is a founding member of
tions transparently. Our primary aim is to ensure the WBCSD and is involved in various working
Business Report 2005 67Dialogue with our stakeholders
groups within the organisation. Suppliers and business partners
• Business Charter for Sustainable Development of
the ICC (International Chamber of Commerce): Most manufacturers of specific intermediates or
Roche endorsed the charter as a founding signa- products in whose development Roche is involved
tory in1992. are already committed to observing the Roche stan-
• Responsible Care:Roche regards Responsible Care dards.They are also covered by the compliance pro-
as an important aspect ofsustainable development cedures and are monitored for observance ofthese
and is dedicated to putting it into practice. regulations.We keep a particularly close watch on
• World Environment Center (WEC): Roche has our suppliers’ approach to workplace safety and
been an active member since the early1990s. occupational hygiene,pollution and waste manage-
• Global Environmental Management Initiative ment.In this way,we aim to ensure that our sup-
(GEMI) pliers and service providers follow not only legal
• Global Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS requirements but also our principles ofsustainabil-
• PharmAccess Foundation,CARE-Programm ity.Roche recently released a set ofguidelines gov-
• European Coalition ofPositive People (ECPP) erning its relationships with suppliers and service
• Development and disaster relief organisations providers.These guidelines set out in formal terms
such as the International Committee of the Red our ethical requirements for companies from which
Cross and its national associations. we purchase products and services. (You will find
further information on this subject at www.roche.com/
An extended list of the main stakeholder contacts and en/sus_eth_guidel_sup.pdf)
organisations of which Roche is a member can be
found on the Internet at www.roche.com/en/
home/sustainability/sus_soc/sus_soc_coop/sus_soc_
coop_int.htm
68 Business Report 2005Dialogue with our stakeholders
How our reporting is viewed by our stakeholders
Our sustainability reports are focused on the verdict was as follows: ‘Overall, the panel felt that
information requirements of our stakeholders. Roche had carried out a substantial, detailed and
It is very important to take their feedback into commendable piece of work in the 2004 Sustainability
account when improving and fine-tuning these Report. The report demonstrates Roche’s real commit-
reports. ment to sustainability, gives evidence of a clear obli-
gation to comply with GRI standards and provides
The 2004 Roche Sustainability Report received a num- many examples and case studies of good work being
ber of awards and has even been nominated for the carried out by members of the company in many parts
2005 European Sustainability Reporting Award (the of the world.’ Detailed examination of the report
award ceremony is scheduled for February 2006). The yielded recommendations for improvements to sub-
fact that we successfully completed the assessment sequent reports which included: integration of risk
process for renewed inclusion in the Dow Jones management, detailed objectives and performance
Sustainability Indexes can also be ascribed in part to figures, greater transparency in the cross-referencing
the report. In improving certain aspects of the report, of sustainability with the Roche business model,
we take due account of feedback from our stake- descriptions of conduct towards stakeholder groups,
holders. A detailed evaluation was made by a panel and improved readability/structure. We are doing
featuring a wide range of expertise. It was made up our utmost to implement these improvements and
of representatives of NGOs and investors, together are confident that the present report comes even
with experts in the fields of communication, governan- closer to meeting our stakeholders’ information requi-
ce, corporate social responsibility and auditing. The rements.
Business Report 2005 69‘The feeling that I had regained control
over my disease gave me a huge psychological lift.’
70 Business Report 2005Herceptin – a breakthrough for women
with HER2-positive breast cancer
Maggie Duke (57), a specialist in hygienic
engineering from Vevey, Switzerland, was
diagnosed with breast cancer in 1997 when
a small, hard, painful lump was found in her
breast.After removal of the lump, Maggie
began treatment with chemotherapy, radio-
therapy, and hormonal therapy. Unfortunately,
within a year the cancer had spread to her
bones and liver.
Further tests showed that Maggie had
HER2-positive breast cancer, an aggressive type
requiring special care. She was then treated with
a combination of chemotherapy and Herceptin,
a drug designed specifically for HER2-positive
cancer.
Within just a few months of beginning
treatment with Herceptin, Maggie’s outlook
improved dramatically, giving her a huge
psychological lift and renewed hope of leading
a full and active life. Since starting treatment
with Herceptin over seven years ago, Maggie
has carried on as normal, continuing to work,
travel and participate in her much-loved sports.
Thanks to the health and energy she has
regained, she has even been able to participate
in long-distance cycling events to help raise
funds for cancer research.
Therapy
In 20% to 30% of all breast cancers, overproduction of the HER2
protein results in fast-growing tumours that respond poorly to
chemotherapy alone. Herceptin (trastuzumab) specifically targets
HER2, shrinking tumours without harming healthy cells. In both
advanced and early disease, Herceptin improves survival while
maintaining quality of life for women with HER2-positive breast
cancer.
Business Report 2005 71Our commitment to
employees
A successful business in the Eastern European region,leading to an in-
creates new jobs crease in headcount of over 12%. Overall, the
increase in the number of new positions was grea-
As in recent years,Roche has been expanding faster test in Research and Development and in Market-
than its competitors.This has led to an increase in ing and Sales. The Roche Group hired a total of
headcount in many business areas and regions.In 8,180 new employees in 2005 in order to fill vacan-
2005 the Roche Group created a total of3,624 new cies as well as to create new jobs.Besides retaining
Number of employees and personnel costs by division
2005 2004 Change Personnel costs1 Change
2005 2004
Roche Group 68,218 64,594 +3,624 9,049 8,248 +801
Pharmaceuticals 48,049 45,108 +2,941 6,586 5,835 +751
Diagnostics 19,788 19,109 +679 2,329 2,256 +73
Others 381 377 +4 134 157 -23
1 in million francs
Number of employees by region
2005 2004 Change
Europe 29,934 28,601 +1,333
Switzerland alone 7,860 7,498 +362
North America 21,899 19,715 +2,184
Latin America 4,465 4,971 -506
Asia 10,459 9,885 +574
Japan alone 5,988 5,663 +325
Africa Australia Oceania 1,461 1,422 +39
jobs,an increase of 5.6%.Headcount increased by talented and motivated employees,it is also impor-
679 in the Diagnostics Division and by 2,941 in tant – in view of our goal of increasing both sales
the Pharmaceuticals Division,ofwhich Genentech and profit – to take an effective approach to attract-
accounted for1,917.In 2005 Roche spent 9,049 mil- ing new talent (http://careers.roche.com).
lion Swiss francs on employee remuneration, an
increase of 801 million Swiss francs (+9.7%) over
the previous year.These figures exclude the impact Employment Policy
ofa one-offgain on the return ofpart ofthe Chugai
employees’ pension fund to the Japanese govern- The Employment Policy lays down the require-
ment. ments that human resources management in the
Roche Group has to meet and also establishes the
The largest number ofnew positions was created in rights and obligations of Roche employees with
the regions, such as Europe and North America, regard to the company. Further information on
where sales also grew faster than average. For this topic is available at www.roche.com/en/home/
instance,2005 saw the founding ofnew companies company/com_gov/com_gov_emp.htm.
72 Business Report 2005Our commitment to employees
Roche is a popular employer climber’ in popularity as an employer in Europe.
We record employee satisfaction by conducting
The labour market for highly qualified talents in the surveys and through two indirect indicators:illness
pharmaceutical industry is extremely competitive. rate and departures not initiated by Roche.A glob-
Since 2003, Roche has considerably improved its al illness rate of 3.7% is a clear indication that our
global presence in this market, becoming more employees enjoy good working conditions and feel
effective in attracting outstanding employees. comfortable working at Roche.
The approach has been two-pronged: employer The total attrition rate ofpermanent staffwas 6.7%
branding which underscores the key advantages of in 2005. The number of regretted losses was only
Roche as a global employer in our industry,and the 2.2% (1,533 employees).The proportion ofdepar-
introduction of global e-recruiting. In 2004 we tures of qualified staff was highest in Sales (6.3%)
launched an Internet-based global recruitment and Administration (4.3%).We are pleased that the
tool which enables candidates to view current lowest numbers of departures of qualified staff in
vacant positions at a glance,apply for a job online 2005 were in Research (1.7%),Production (2.7%)
or register in the global or various local talent and Marketing (3.1%).
pools.The tool was used by over130,000 candidates
in 2005 to register or apply for employment. In This demonstrates overall that Roche can count on
the past year Roche achieved three demonstrable a stable pool of motivated employees. The risk
competitive advantages: recruiting has become of not achieving the projected results in business-
faster and more efficient,a better selection from the critical areas as a result of significant numbers of
growing number of well qualified external appli- regretted losses can still be regarded as minimal.
2005 2004
Fluctuation 6.7% 6.1%
4,556 employees
‘Regretted losses’, i.e. fluctuation not initiated by Roche 2.2% 2.9%
1,533 employees
cants is possible,and,lastly,transparency for inter- Performance culture at Roche
nal applicants.Roche has come considerably closer
to achieving its goal of ‘one door into Roche’ Since 2002 performance management has been em-
through a unique combination of systems. By the phasised as a key management instrument for gen-
end of2005,65% ofall known vacancies worldwide erating sustainable added value at Roche.The link
were viewable on a website.This percentage will be between corporate goals and the day-to-day busi-
increased in 2006. ness carried out by management and employees is
forged using goal-setting management.In this pro-
Once again in 2005 Roche companies won a num- cess,the performance ofmanagement staffis mea-
ber ofprizes or topped the rankings as an attractive sured in terms of their contribution to sustainable
employer:e.g.Roche and Genentech in the USA;in value creation within the company.All senior man-
Germany (best employer); in Switzerland (best agers at Roche share a common goal: sustainably
employer for women), in Spain (best employer) increasing enterprise value, as measured against
and in Australia.Roche was also voted the ‘highest OPAC (operating profit after cost ofcapital).
Business Report 2005 73Our commitment to employees
One door into Roche – Roche vacancies at a glance
At the beginning of 2004 Roche launched a global have their personal data and CV registered in the
career Internet site http://careers.roche.com that Roche talent pool. As soon as a vacancy comes up,
shows all vacancies within the Group at a glance. To Roche contacts all those potential candidates whose
date, over 30 countries have been linked up to this site, profile matches the requirements for the job in ques-
which meant that by the end of 2005 more than 65% of tion. Roche employees can also apply for job openings
vacancies at Roche could be viewed online. The site in this way. Roche’s career Internet site is a unique
contains information about Roche and the individual instrument in the industry that supports the Group’s
country affiliates as well about as the vacant positions. growth-driven corporate strategy.
Anyone interested in applying for a job at Roche can
In 2005 the target group of this standardised per- Regular feedback and development reviews are the
formance management,which had originally been cornerstones of performance management and
senior management (approx.1,000 managers),was career development. Staff are promoted to higher
extended to include a larger population in specific management positions on the basis oftheir leader-
critical segments.In 2004 and 2005 Roche refined a ship qualities and actual performance.
Group-wide standardised database and an integrat-
ed system. This provides goal-setting agreements The succession management process for global
with greater transparency,thus facilitating compar- key positions is well established and is reviewed at
ison and control.It also provides a broader factual regular intervals. Succession planning was carried
basis for decisions regarding development,promo- out in 2005,as it is every year,for the Group’s1,000
tions and transfers. top managers at Group and Divisional level. The
talent situation at Roche is very encouraging on the
In 94% of the affiliates, various goal-setting whole. In the Group, we have an average of 2.5
models for performance management or regular succession candidates for each key position (com-
feedback on performance are in place.Altogether, pared with 2.6 in 2004),which is in the best-prac-
85% of the workforce have defined goals or set tice range of2.5–3.0 candidates per position.We are
objectives, or regularly receive feedback on their confident that our focus on performance mana-
performance. gement not only produces a sufficient number of
internal candidates but ensures that they are of a
very high standard.The risk ofgaps in key positions
Talent management and development causing a negative impact on business as a result of
at Roche people leaving is therefore negligible.In 2005 there
were only very few cases ofvacancies among the top
Business success at Roche,today and in the future, 1,000 positions not being filled within a short time.
depends on the efforts of a large number of moti- The processes of global succession planning and
vated and highly qualified employees and man- talent identification have been taken over and
agers. What characterises performance culture at adapted in many countries.In 2005,69% ofRoche
Roche is a high degree ofindividual responsibility. affiliates had a systematic succession planning
Training and management development
2005 2004
Total hours invested in training/staff development 2.14 million 1.85 million
Training time per employee 3.3 days (26.7 hours) 2.9 days (23 hours)
74 Business Report 2005Our commitment to employees
process in place. 83% of our affiliates have put In 2005 Roche introduced the Leadership Charter,
programmes into place for the systematic identifi- a competence model for managers in the company,
cation and development oftalents. which was adapted by both Divisions.This model
is based on the essential competencies that man-
Employee development at Roche takes many forms. agers at Roche should possess. This gives Roche
The primary tool in this process is the development managers a consistent view of what is expected
plan.In 2005 a training or development plan that from them in terms ofmanagement competencies.
described concrete development prospects or steps Another achievement in 2005 was the new Execu-
was agreed with 62% of all Roche employees. In tive Development Programme for senior manage-
addition to continuing education,the plan calls for ment at Roche which will begin in 2006.The target
strategic postings oftalented employees abroad and group for this programme are the top 350 managers
a growing number of project assignments and job in the company.
rotation.
In an effort to deal efficiently with peaks in the Compensation and benefits
work volume, we have employed 3,006 employees
on a temporary basis (as per end-2005) compared The remuneration policy adopted in 2004 is
with 3,745 as per end-2004.In addition,we are cur- designed to support value creation and reinforce
rently training 959 apprentices and offering them Roche’s culture of performance and innovation,
the prospect ofa career with a future. while delivering remuneration to meet employees’
‘30% of Roche employees
are already participating in
Roche Connect’
Lisa Teverson, Group Head of Compensation & Benefits
What exactly is Roche Connect and how does the
programme function?
Roche Connect is a share purchase programme that
gives Roche employees the option to acquire Roche
non-voting equity securities (known as Genussscheine
in Switzerland) at a discount. They thus have the chan-
ce to participate in the company’s growth. The pro-
gramme started in 2002, and is now offered to employ-
ees in 41 countries worldwide. This is a great success
given the short time span since the programme was What are the next steps for Roche Connect?
launched. We have now implemented the programme in the
countries where this is relatively easy. We cannot cur-
Who can participate in the programme? rently offer the plan in countries like the USA or China
As soon as Roche Connect is launched in a country, all as the legal requirements are much more complicated.
permanent employees there can participate. World- We will continue to check feasibility, especially in
wide, 30 percent of the employees to whom it has been China, and we hope we will soon be able to include
offered have already decided to take part. The pro- employees from these countries in Roche Connect. But
gramme was, however, not developed for temporary to achieve that goal we still have a lot of work to do.
employees since shares are generally considered to be
a long-term investment.
Business Report 2005 75Our commitment to employees
needs both now and in the future.The first awards including some changes to the pension plan for
were made under Roche Long Term,the new incen- employees in Switzerland.
tive programme for executives and key managers
which was approved at the end of2004.Participants
receive either stock-settled stock appreciation Promoting diversity in the workplace
rights or options to acquire Genussscheine,depen-
ding depending on tax efficiency. This marks a Roche places a high value on diversity and seeks to
notable change, particularly in the USA, where benefit from it by integrating differences in per-
incentives were traditionally based on American spective into the Group’s activities.Roche employs
Depositary Receipts instead of the Genussscheine. people from over190 countries.60% of our affili-
The incentives for entitled participants worldwide ates are headed by general managers from the local
are all based on the growth in the value of the country and the trend is rising.The affiliates’man-
Genussscheine. Thus, everyone involved has an agement teams,too,boast a consistently high pro-
immediate financial interest in increasing our com- portion of staff from the local region.Talent pools
pany’s value. worldwide feature a growing percentage ofperson-
nel from a variety ofcountries and continents.The
Following on from the two awards won in 2004 for 336 employees at our Corporate Center come from
Roche Connect,the employee stock (‘Genussschei- 23 countries.
ne’) purchase plan,Roche has again received exter-
nal recognition for its employee equity pro- Roche aims to be an attractive employer for both
grammes.The Global Equity Organization (GEO) women and men and for this reason promotes
– a leading international organisation promoting diversity in its staff.2005 was the fourth year in a
share ownership for employees – awarded Roche row in which Roche recruited more women than
their 2005 award for the most creative and innova- men.Women account for 43% of the entire work-
tive design for companies with more than 30,000 force. By contrast, only about 30% of the 4,556
employees.This time the award was received for the employees who left Roche in 2005 were women.
new Roche Long Term incentive programme. In 32% of managers at Roche are female.Among our
making the award the judges praised the way that identified global key positions (mainly global
Roche had identified and addressed differences in senior and middle management)19% ofall incum-
prior incentive plans,and in the changing compet- bents are female.
itive,accounting and tax environments,to arrive at
the new global programme.With the launch ofthe Respect for the work/life balance is also a key con-
plan in Argentina in 2005, a further country was cern at Roche.This follows different paths depend-
included into Roche Connect, bringing the total ing on the country, but is based on a straightfor-
number of countries where the plan is offered to 41. ward principle: For instance, Roche supports its
Membership of the plan also continued to grow employees to enable them to deliver optimal per-
significantly, reaching over11,600 (+22% vs.2004:) formance in accordance with their family obliga-
9,067). This is a further indication that Roche tions.There are a variety ofworking arrangements
employees identify with their company. at Roche: special working-time (e.g. part-time
employment, flexitime, sabbaticals, parental leave
A number ofnew benefit plans and changes to exist- for men and women), childcare facilities or other
ing plans were approved during the past year, arrangements that help to reconcile the needs of
2005 2004
Women as a percentage of the total workforce 43% 42%
Percentage of women in management positions 32% 31%
Number of women in the top 80 positions 7 5
Percentage of women among candidates for top management positions 16% 12%
76 Business Report 2005Our commitment to employees
career and family.All these measures comply with
local legislation and in many cases go far beyond
the legal requirements.Roche offers the option of
part-time employment wherever the requirements
ofthe job permit.Approximately6% ofour current
employees work on a part-time basis (over 10% of
them are men).
Respecting human rights
Roche supports and respects human rights as defi-
ned by the United Nations and applies these princi-
ples consistently.The Compliance Officer monitors
this policy throughout the Roche Group,and serves
as a contact person for all employees.Further infor-
mation on this topic can be found at www.roche.
com/en/home/sus/sus_soc_comm_hum.htm
Two violations of employment policy principles
were reported to the Roche Executive Committee or
the Compliance Officer in 2005. As soon as these
violations became known,measures were taken to
deal with them appropriately.
Business Report 2005 77Our commitment
to society
In brief gains. Involvement of society as a whole is a key
prerequisite for this long-term orientation and for
As a research-based company, Roche operates our success as a business. We regard our specific
according to a business model that focuses on aptitude in finding innovative and efficient solu-
creating sustainable added value for the principal tions to unmet medical needs as our principal
stakeholders rather than maximising short-term contribution to society.We also contribute substan-
Roche and the International
Committee of the Red Cross
develop partnership
Gilles Carbonnier, Head Private Sector Relations at the
ICRC, Geneva, Switzerland
Roche and the International Committee of the
Red Cross (ICRC) initiated a new partnership on
7 October 2005. What does this involve?
Roche is one of seven Swiss companies with which the
ICRC is developing a long-term strategic partnership to
tackle various social issues around the globe. Over the
next six years, Roche will support the ICRC both fin-
ancially and through the provision of materials (e.g. Are Roche and the ICRC working together to
drugs) and services. Even before this agreement, combat AIDS?
though, Roche and the ICRC co-operated on various This is another area where co-operation makes sense.
projects, such as providing assistance to the victims of It’s not only a question of protecting the victims of wars
the tsunami catastrophe in December 2004. On that and natural catastrophes against AIDS but also of
occasion Roche sent the ICRC antibiotics and other ensuring the safety of our own people. The ICRC has
medicines to treat 80,000 people. some13,000 employees working in over 60 countries, a
large part of them in Africa. Roche has helped us, for
In what other areas do Roche and the ICRC work instance, by putting us in touch with the main players
together? in the fight against AIDS in West Africa.
For instance, in exchanging ideas. The ICRC can bene-
fit substantially from the knowledge of Roche employ- How will this partnership develop going forward?
ees in dealing with medicines. That is why, in late April In the near future we will be examining ways of reinfor-
2005, the ICRC’s leading pharmacists came to Basel, cing our links. Some possible areas are personnel
where they were able to see how drugs are manufactu- management, risk management and logistics. There’s
red under sterile conditions. This is important for the still a lot of potential in the co-operation between
ICRC because we purchase drugs the world over, and Roche and the ICRC.
because we want to be certain that what we buy is of
good quality and does not include any counterfeits that
may be deleterious to health.
78 Business Report 2005Our commitment to society
tially by creating value for our main stakeholder Saharan Africa.The price reductions on HIV pro-
groups and seeking to maintain or enhance an ope- tease inhibitors from Roche apply to 93% of all
rating environment that is conducive to innova- people with HIV/AIDS in the world.
tion.
Strategies implemented by Roche to improve global
In addition,Roche maintains and supports a num- access to healthcare include:
ber ofactivities that are closely bound up with our • Developing a clear patent and pricing policy
specialist skills and our particular business model. aimed at facilitating access to HIV medication for
In the societal context,too,we attach importance to the poorest people in the world, who make up
cooperating with reliable partners that focus on a around 69% of all people worldwide living with
limited number of sustainable and effective pro- HIV/AIDS.
jects. Roche’s position on social responsibility is • Working in partnership with committed govern-
currently undergoing a review process due for ments,non-governmental organisations and oth-
release in 2006. er parties sharing similar goals.
• Undertaking research and development to
develop new anti-HIV/AIDS medicines and to
Ensuring access to healthcare improve existing ones.
worldwide • Promoting education, training and knowledge-
sharing.
Roche’s most important contribution to society lies • Donating technical expertise in the area ofindus-
in the research, development and production of trial development ofmedicines and,in particular,
innovative and cost-effective solutions for unmet ofantimalarials in order to support the develop-
medical needs.Accordingly,Roche focuses on areas ment and distribution of a new drug to combat
where the company can create genuine sustainable malaria.
added value as a result of its special expertise, its
role in the healthcare system and the corporate cul- You can find more detailed information in the
ture that it has nurtured.By developing and main- brochure ‘Committed to Making a Difference’pub-
taining innovative solutions in collaboration with lished in 2005; see also p. 30. (Further information
competent local partners,it is often possible to pro- can be found at www.roche.com/comm_diff_rep.pdf
vide more lasting assistance designed to deal with as well as www.roche.com/en/home/sustainability/
the causes of disease and based on very simple sus_med.htm and www.roche-hiv.com)
methods.This applies especially to programmes to
benefit those groups in the Least Developed Coun- In its AmpliCare programme, Roche Diagnostics
tries defined by the United Nations as being the supplies sub-Saharan Africa (including South
poorest. That is where the need is greatest and Africa) as well as countries classified by the UN as
where,in many cases,access even to fundamentals ‘least developed’countries with HIV-B load tests at
such as food, drinking water and the most basic the lowest possible prices.
medical care cannot be guaranteed. The fight
against HIV/AIDS is one example of a programme The AmpliCare programme works together with all
in which medicines are the focal point of sustain- the laboratories and clinics to provide a tailored
able development.The distribution ofthe two HIV solution,determining those products that are both
protease inhibitors Invirase and Viracept may be affordable and suited to the region in question.We
regarded as exemplary for Roche’s policy. Roche are not dealing here with pharmaceutical prices but
offers the medicines at no-profit prices from Roche with costs that reflect a range of outlays,including
Basel to the least developed countries and to sub- tests,instruments,consumables,training and logis-
Business Report 2005 79Our commitment to society
tics. The services we offer thus vary according to Tradition of commitment – sponsorship
the customers’ differing needs. Depending on in- and donations
dividual requirements,these costs may be up to 70
percent below the standard price. Through the Owing to our areas of expertise and our corporate
AmpliCare Initiative, we are cooperating with culture,we are mainly involved in:
the US-based William J. Clinton Presidential • humanitarian and social projects focused on the
Foundation. developing world
• promoting science,medicine and the professional
For details, please see the brochure ‘Commitment developmentofyoung scientists in these areas
and Care across the Globe’ (further information is • contemporary art and culture,as well as
also available at www.roche.com/pages/downloads/ • local community and environmental projects.
sustain/pdf/rochehivbro_e.pdf)
Since it is difficult to ascertain the sustainability of
monetary or product donations and other dona-
tions in kind,Roche has decided not to publish any
detailed figures on the monetary value ofits activi-
ties.In 2005,63% of all Roche donations went to
humanitarian and social projects, and 28% of
donated funds supported the advancement of sci-
ence and education.Nearly 5% of donations went
to projects in contemporary culture and the arts
and about 3% to community and environmental
projects. In 2005 about one-quarter of donations
were made in kind and about three-quarters were in
the form of financial support. Roche only makes
political donations in clearly defined exceptional
cases and in line with prevailing legal and ethical
standards.Such donations are made only to politi-
cal organisations that support conditions that
favour innovation and not to individuals.Political
donations account for 2% of all donations and
sponsorship expenditure.In 2005 Roche began col-
lecting data on the impact of all its monetary or
product donations. We now have the first results:
Over one million patients benefited directly from
donations in 2005,especially of a humanitarian or
social nature. Roche has agreed to donate over 5
million packs of Tamiflu to the World Health
Organisation (WHO) (for details see p. 23). Last
year Roche maintained contacts with more than
80 Business Report 2005Our commitment to society
2,500 NGOs – impressive proof of our policy of authorities and aid organisations – and organised
only working with reliable partners to fulfil our emergency assistance in conjunction with the inter-
commitments to society. Over 600,000 people national relief bodies.In the countries affected by
enjoyed support from Roche in 2005 through its the tsunami, Roche supplied medicines for the
donations to promote science and education,com- treatment of some 80,000 people. (You can find
munity and environmental projects,and culture. further information on the Roche Drug Donations
Policy at www.roche.com/pages/downloads/sustain/
In providing disaster relief, Roche supplies know- pdf/drug_don_pol.pdf.)
how and,where appropriate,its own products and
services to competent,locally rooted aid organisa- Not least because ofthe founder’s family,Roche has
tions in order to alleviate acute emergencies. The had a long and intensive relationship with contem-
decision to undertake this kind of action lies with porary art and culture,in particular music but also
the local affiliate.Both at the beginning of2005 fol- – as demonstrated by the Tinguely Museum,which
lowing the tsunami disaster in Asia and after the was donated and is maintained by Roche – the visu-
earthquake in Pakistan in October 2005, Roche al arts and architecture.The Roche’n’Jazz project is
assessed the situation together with the relevant an example ofa new kind ofactivity.Set up in 2005,
General Managers – who were in touch with local its aim is to enable Roche companies to stage a
Support in 2005
Roche Research Foundation Founded by Roche in1971, the RRF Support totalling 2.17 million Swiss
www.research-foundation.org provides support for young scientists francs paid to 77 projects (out of 344
conducting basic research in biology applications). After the Swiss National
and medicine Science Foundation, the RRF is thus
the country’s most important institution
supporting young scientists.
Roche Organ Transplantation Roche is donating 50 million Swiss Ten projects from Europe, South
Research Foundation www.rotrf.org francs within a ten-year period to America, the United States and
this independent research foundation. Australia, which the foundation
With this money, the foundation supported with grants totalling
supports innovative research projects 2 million Swiss francs.
in the field of organ transplantation.
Roche Foundation for Founded by Roche in 2004 to Total of1.5 million Swiss francs
Anemia Research undertake research on new paid to seven projects in Switzerland,
www.rofar.org approaches to the treatment Germany, the UK and the USA
of anemia. (out of 70 applications).
Genentech Foundation for Support for educational and Total of1.2 million US dollars donated
Biomedical Sciences community-based organisations in to 26 projects.
www.gene.com/gene/about/ the San Francisco Bay Area (USA)
community/gfbs
Business Report 2005 81Our commitment to society
Global Roche Employee
AIDS Walk
The Global Roche Employee AIDS Walk is a
sponsored walk involving Roche employees all
over the world. The principle is simple but effec-
tive: employees can register for the Walk and
then encourage colleagues, friends and family
members to sponsor them. Roche then doubles
the sum collected by the employees. The money
donated is used to support AIDS orphans in
Malawi, Africa, where about half a million child-
ren have lost one or both parents to AIDS.
About 40 million people around the world are infected The first AIDS Walk took place in 2003 at the Roche
with HIV, and 25 million of these live in sub-Saharan sites in Basel (Switzerland) and Nutley and Palo Alto
Africa. In Malawi itself, approximately 15% of all adults (USA). In the first year, 1,300 employees took part in
are infected with HIV. Malawi is classified as one of the event. Between them they ‘walked up’ a total of
the Least Developed Countries, but is a peaceful and 330,000 Swiss francs for AIDS orphans in Malawi. By
politically stable country. This stability means that the 2005, already 90 sites were participating, and the num-
projects put forward by Roche employees can be plan- ber of those taking part increased tenfold: This time
ned for the long term, as long-term planning is essen- about12,000 employees joined in, donating approxima-
tial for bringing about a sustainable improvement in the tely1,000,000 Swiss francs for the children in Malawi.
orphans’ situation. The donations are invested directly
in the projects without being held up by bureaucracy. In April 2005, seven of the most successful Roche fund-
They are managed by a partner organisation of Roche – raisers travelled to Malawi to see at first hand how the
the European Coalition of Positive People (ECPP). donations were being put to use. On their return, they
Thanks to these Roche donations, this organisation has were convinced that the donations were being used
been able to build orphanages in which some 3,000 to directly benefit the orphans. As one participant said:
children not only receive food and clothing but can ‘Our donations are helping to provide hope and a future
benefit from school education. for these children.’
82 Business Report 2005Our commitment to society
series of concerts in partnership with local jazz
clubs. The series is intended primarily for Roche
employees and their families, but is open to any
interested members of the public as well.It is also
designed to promote local jazz performers and
composers.(www.roche-n-jazz.net)
As of2006,contributions by employees – augment-
ed by Roche contributions in some cases – will be
co-ordinated by the Roche Employee Action and
Charity Trust (Re&Act), founded in 2005. The
Trust, headquartered in Basel, will in future co-
ordinate emergency measures, longer-term recon-
struction programmes and the distribution of
funds collected by the AIDS Walk.
Business Report 2005 8384 Business Report 2005Avastin – opening a new era in cancer therapy
Hamish Hutchinson (58) was diagnosed
with advanced bowel cancer in January 2005,
after first noticing abdominal discomfort around
Christmas. Exploratory surgery established
the extent of the cancer, and the affected part
of Hamish’s colon was successfully removed,
together with surrounding tissue containing
a secondary tumour.
Hamish started chemotherapy in February
2005 and had one session before Avastin
was added to his treatment regimen. In August,
after 11 cycles of chemotherapy plus Avastin,
a CT scan showed that he was clear of the cancer
and treatment was stopped. Hamish now feels
well enough to live a normal life and has
returned to work as an anesthesiologist at the
hospitals in Tunbridge Wells, UK.
Being told he had advanced cancer came
as a huge shock to Hamish and his family:
‘My first reaction was total disbelief.’
The support of his wife, Helen – who has had
‘I was so pleased to get
cancer herself – and their two daughters,
the all clear from my doctor and
Pollyanna and Victoria, played a big role in
be able to return to work.’ his recovery.‘Thanks to them,’ says Hamish,
‘I never gave up.’
Therapy
Avastin (bevacizumab) is opening a new era in cancer therapy,
offering patients better outcomes and greater hope than standard
chemotherapy alone for the treatment of metastatic colorectal
cancer. Avastin, the first anti-angiogenic drug with demonstrated
anticancer benefit, inhibits the growth of the network of blood
vessels that supply nutrients and oxygen to cancerous tissues,
thus shutting off the blood supply that is essential for the growth
of cancers and their spread to other parts of the body.
Business Report 2005 85Safety, health and
environmental protection
Corporate policy in the field of safety, Health and Environmental Protection apply
health and environmental protection throughout the Group. Each division has an eco-
delegate who supports the organisation with con-
Roche gears its corporate policy in the field ofsafe- crete SHE projects.(Further information can be found
ty, health and environmental protection (SHE) to at www.roche.com/ en/home/sustainability/sus_env/
ISO14 000 ‘Environmental Management Systems’. sus_env_pol.htm).
This policy is based on its own experience going
back many years and on the commitment to sus- Thanks to the professionalism and hard work ofthe
tainable development it has entered into in the staff involved, no Roche company was fined any
context of the Charter of the International Cham- significant amount for infringements of safety,
ber ofCommerce (ICC),the World Business Coun- health or environmental regulations. As this can
cil for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the evidently be accomplished without resorting to
chemical industry’s Responsible Care Programme. rigid management systems that consume consider-
The Roche Guidelines for the Assurance of Safety, able resources, there is no intention to attain ISO
SHE key figures1
2005 2004
Investments in SHE (in millions of CHF) 240 160
Operating costs for SHE (in millions of CHF) 356 323
Occupational accidents 563 493
Work-related fatalities 0 0
Work-related accidents per million working hours 4.66 4.78
Workdays lost due to work-related accidents 6,629 5,051
Total number of workdays 15,083,631 12,871,583
Occupational illnesses 333 208
Occupational illnesses per million working hours 2.76 2.03
Workdays lost due to occupational illnesses 1,416 996
Occupational accidents (contractor firms) 133 129
Work-related accidents per million working hours (contractor firms) 11.6 13.9
Number of transport accidents (road) 2 1
Transport accidents per metric ton transported (road) 2.7 x10-5 6.0 x10-6
Total energy consumption (TJ/year) 12,515 11,899
CO (t/year) 1,059,304 1,013,860
2
NO (t/year) 363 442
x
SO (t/year) 151 261
2
VOCs (t/year) 604 1,010
Particulate matter (t/year) 50 63
Water consumption (in million cubic meters per year) 3.9 4.3
TOC (t/year) 1,830 1,344
Heavy metals (t/year) 1.463 2.231
Chemical waste (t/year) 38,380 42,722
Full-time SHE personnel 559 532
Total number of employees 68,218 64,594
1 Based on the CEFIC Health, Safety and Environment Reporting Guidelines (November1998)
86 Business Report 2005Safety, health and environmental protection
and/or EMAS certification centrally. Nevertheless, management system.Corporate Safety,Health and
approximately nine local manufacturing compa- Environmental Protection CSE has been carrying
nies (representing 30% oftotal production volume out systematic Group-wide SHE audits at company
and 70% of chemical production volume) have sites since 1980 – to date, nearly 800 have been
decided at their own discretion to adopt such an completed. In the year under review, a total of 24
approach,based on existing corporate policies. production facilities,distribution centres,research
sites and office buildings were audited in15 coun-
Auditing tries.Once again,the results were good.
Safety,health and environmental protection audits The audits focused primarily on the safe and envi-
(‘SHE audits’) are a key element in the Roche SHE ronmentally responsible behaviour ofemployees in
Energy consumption reduced
by 30 percent
In Palo Alto, California, Keith Sonberg and his
team are busy translating the Roche energy con-
servation policy into action. The result: lower
energy consumption and lower costs.
Keith Sonberg’s team are proud award-winners in
ECOmpetition04 – a Roche competition for sustainabi-
lity-related ideas. They won the award for their project
that reduced energy consumption for laboratory fume
hoods. The savings come to 2,500 US dollars a year for
each fume hood. ‘I think the competition is a laudable
idea’, says Sonberg. ‘It clearly shows that Roche mana-
gement is aware of sustainability and environmental
issues’. In addition to the fume hood project, Sonberg Rudolf Schwob from Roche Corporate Safety, Health
and his team in Palo Alto have developed and imple- and Environmental Protection explains the criteria by
mented a comprehensive sustainability programme, which the projects were awarded competition prizes.
ranging from energy-saving light bulbs, to Green ‘What counted was that the projects had an impact not
Engineering, to employee training. only on the environment but also on the budget. It was
also important that projects could be implemented at
The results are impressive: In the past three years, other Roche sites as well’.
energy consumption at the Palo Alto site has been
reduced by 30 percent and water consumption by All Roche employees were given the chance to parti-
25 percent. The recycling rate for construction waste is cipate in the competition by submitting projects that
as high as 90 percent. As Sonberg says with some improve sustainability in their working environment.
pride: ‘Roche is now listed right up there on the Dow The third time ECOmpetition was held – in 2004, follo-
Jones Sustainability Index. Our goal is to remain wing competitions in1994 and1999 – a total of 131pro-
environmentally friendly, economically effective and jects were submitted, of which18 were selected by a
socially accountable in future too’. jury as prize-winners.
Business Report 2005 87Safety, health and environmental protection
the workplace,as well as on the technical safety of number ofoccupational illnesses per million work-
processes and plants.The risk ofdust explosions in ing hours increased as well as the number ofwork-
production formulation as well as hazards in the ing days lost as a result of occupational illnesses.
handling of biologically active compounds and In line with the growth ofthe company in terms of
potentially contaminated diagnostic instruments headcount and number of sites as well as produc-
have become increasingly important aspects ofrisk tion volume,energy consumption has increased in
assessment. absolute figures, but efficiency has improved in
relation to sales revenue or number of employees.
Systematic audits ofstrategically important suppli- The same is true for the volume of greenhouse gas
ers manufacturing chemical intermediates,finished emissions. Other emissions in air and water have
products or exclusive equipment parts were also declined,as has the volume ofchemical waste.
performed again.18 ofthese audits were completed
in the past year.
Scope of reporting
This year SHE reporting covers the Roche Group
with the Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divi-
sions as well as Chugai and Genentech.As the scope
ofthe reporting is the same as for the previous year,
the key figures are directly comparable even in
absolute terms. Owing to the different system
boundaries, this is not possible for earlier years.
The bulk of the data was collected in November
on the basis of ten months and then extrapolated
for the entire year. For SHE costs, as well as for
accidents and incidents, the full-year data for
2005 have been collected. For details on safety,
health and environmental protection, please see
www.roche.com/en/home/sustainability/sus_env/sus_
env_care.htm.
Results in brief
The Group’s SHE performance in 2005 is being
published as part of the Sustainability Report for
the third year in succession.For more than ten years
previously, it was published in a separate SHE
Report.The Group’s performance can be described
as good on the whole. The trend for achieving
the goals set in 2003 for energy consumption and
greenhouse gas and VOC emissions is pointing in
the right direction.New targets are intended to spur
the Roche Group on to further improve its SHE
performance.
In 2005 there were no reports throughout the entire
Group of significant damage that affected either
individuals or the environment. The number of
occupational accidents was kept at a low level.The
88 Business Report 2005Safety, health and environmental protection
Goals and progress in safety, health • a 10% improvement in the ecobalance by 2015
and environmental protection (this indicator will also be recorded this year for
the first time)
In 2003 Roche set itself a target of reducing the • a further 10% reduction in consumption per
Group’s greenhouse gas emissions – i.e.CO from employee by 2010 in line with the energy-saving
2
energy generation and halogenated hydrocarbons goal
from air conditioning equipment and chillers – by • annual target:no relevant fines in the SHE area
10 percent within five years.
Over the same period, energy consumption and Eco-efficiency and expenditure for
emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC) safety, health and environmental
were to be reduced by the same percentage.Abso- protection
lute values are based on Group sales in order to
allow for the changes in the corporate structure and Eco-efficiency
to enable comparisons to be made from the same
baseline. Eco-efficiency is an important element in promo-
ting sustainable development. Eco-efficient pro-
Owing to various measures to reduce emissions and duction processes conserve resources such as raw
the positive trend of Group sales revenue,the tar- materials and energy and reduce the impact on the
gets set for 2008 have already been reached.Roche environment by decreasing emissions and waste
is determined to make further efforts to confirm volumes.There is also a positive financial impact.
and improve these good results.
Roche quantifies eco-efficiency by calculating the
Eco-Efficiency Rate (EER).The EER is an indicator
SH&E goals
of the ecological effect of expenditure in the en-
vironmental area. It is determined by means of
readily measurable parameters (such as quantities
Energy 37.1
consumption ofsubstances emitted or waste produced) as well as
35.2
by financial figures such as sales and spending ear-
40.3
marked for environmental protection. The higher
Greenhouse gas 64.6
emissions
60.7
the EER, the greater the degree of eco-efficiency.
For further details see www.roche.com/en/home/
69.6
sustainability/sus_env/sus_env_care.htm.
VOC emissions 31.4
17
34.2
Expenditure for SHE 20051
2008 goals 2005 2004
Roche Group
For the purposes of the graph, values normalised to sales were Investments for Safety and Health 120
given a multiplier factor (energy consumption x100, greenhouse
for Environmental Protection 120
gas emissions x2, VOC emissions x1000)
for SHE 240
Operating costs for SHE 356
In 2004 additional SHE objectives were defined Total expenditure for SHE 596
within the framework of a medium to long-term 1 In millions of CHF
programme.
• a 20% reduction in the Roche Accident Rate Ecobalance
(RAR) by 2010
• a10% reduction in absences overall by 2015 (the To achieve the target ofa10% improvement in the
relevant indicator will be recorded this year for Group’s ecobalance,a criterion must be established
the first time) that can be compared over a number of years.For
Business Report 2005 89
0
41 82 24 65 07this purpose,Roche employs a method ofthe Swiss
Agency for the Environment (BAFU) in which
environmental impact points are given to ecologi-
cally relevant parameters such as emissions,waste
or energy consumption. The points are added up
and expressed as a function of the number of
employees. For the past year the ratio was 6.58, a
figure which serves as the baseline for measuring
any improvements.
Investment and operating costs
SHE expenditure in the Roche Group totalled 596
million Swiss francs in 2005.This amount compris-
2005 2003 2002 2001
560
490
420
Investments in S
350
Investments in E
280
Investments in SH&E
210
Operating costs
for SH&E 140
Total expenditure 70
on SH&E
0
021 021 042 653 695 36 27 531 632 173 94 94 89 522 323 44 63 08 522 503
2004
68 47 061 323 384
Safety, health and environmental protection
Eco-Efficiency Rate (EER) (including Chugai and Genentech as of 2004)
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
Sales1 35,511 29,561 22,428 21,438 22,757
Environmental expenditure1 242 192 172 144 130
Environmental damage2 6.02 8.40 4.38 6.37 7.38
EER 24.39 18.34 29.28 23.28 23.72
1 In millions of CHF 2 In millions of environmental damage units
Key figures for eco-efficiency (including Chugai and Genentech as of 2004 and including other sources such as CO
2
emissions from external energy generation – hence not comparable with previous years)
Key figures Unit 2005 2004 1992 Δ % 92/05
Energy TJ/1 million sales 0.352 0.403 0.649 -45.8
CO t/1 million sales 29.83 34.35 26.755 11.4
2
VOC t/1 million sales 0.017 0.034 0.207 -91.8
Water m3/1 million sales 109.8 145.65 1,776 -93.8
TOC t/1 million sales 0.051 0.045 0.199 -74.2
Chemical waste t/1 million sales 1.08 1.45 1.72 -37.2
es investments that were made in various areas as
well as to operating costs.The calculation of SHE
investments takes account of the full value of con-
struction projects solely for the purpose of SHE,
e.g.fire extinguisher systems,wastewater treatment
or waste incineration plants. A portion of the
investment was calculated for SHE arising out of
other projects such as new production facilities or
plants.In 2005 investments amounted to 120 mil-
lion Swiss francs for environmental protection and
to120 million Swiss francs for safety and health.
SHE operating costs for the year under review
amounted to 356 million Swiss francs.This inclu-
SH&E expenditure (in millions of CHF)
90 Business Report 2005Safety, health and environmental protection
des current spending for services and personnel Accident statistics 2005
costs in the area of SHE.In 2005 the total number Roche Group
of employees working full-time in SHE in the No. of employees in Roche Group 68,218
Roche Group was 559.SHE expenses expressed as a No. of employees recorded for statistics 65,949
proportion oftotal sales were 1.68% in 2005 (2004 No. of workdays 15,083,631
1.62%). No. of lost workdays recorded 6,629
No. of occupational accidents recorded 563
Safety and health protection Occupational accidents/1,000 employees 8.54
Accidents/million working hours (CEFIC) 4.66
Roche believes it is very important that employees
can work in as healthy and safe a working environ- RAR (Roche Accident Rate)1 0.099
ment as possible. Safety and health committees 1 See Glossary/Explanatory notes at www.roche.com/en/
that focus on technical activities (production, home/sustainability/sus_env/sus_env_care.htm
laboratories, workshops) have been introduced at
virtually all Roche subsidiaries. They cover all
employees at a given site. part ofhealth monitoring programmes,motivating
staff to increase their level of physical activity
We are increasingly using the workplace as a way and providing information on healthy nutrition.
of reaching employees not only in order to help In 2005 Roche began collecting data on general
prevent potential work-related problems, but also absences. The aim is to discover something about
to enhance staff health in general. Initiatives the causes of such absences and to seek possible
include offering preventive medicine measures as improvements.
Working with highly active
substances
Recent pharmaceutical research has produced medi-
cines with even more specifically targeted biological
action. They fit precisely particular receptors without
influencing other targets. Because of their targeted
action, they are often effective even in minuscule quan-
tities. If this is the case, they are called highly active
compounds.
Such substances, however, are potent not only in
patients. In manufacturing, it is essential to ensure that
employees are not overexposed to these substances,
and care must be taken not to contaminate other prod-
ucts. Highly active substances can only be processed in
contained systems. workplace. Special emphasis is placed on a technical
Within Roche, the Industrial Hygiene Committee – con- approach (i.e. contained systems).
sisting of specialists in occupational toxicity, industrial In 2005 Roche decided to build a completely new plant
hygiene and occupational medicine – prepares assess- meeting the necessary technical standards for the
ments of the hazards posed by each substance manufacture of drugs containing highly active sub-
and defines exposure limits, which serve as a tool to stances. It chose to erect this new plant at Toluca in
derive the appropriate protective measures for each Mexico.
Business Report 2005 91Occupational accidents Accidents per 1,000 employees in the Roche Group
The figures for occupational accidents at Roche
deteriorated slightly, though at a low level, in the 2005 8.54
year under review.The number ofaccidents involv- 2004 8.30
ing Roche employees rose by 14.2% in 2005, the 2003 11.36
severity of accidents, i.e. the number of working 2002 11.67
days lost per accident as a result of accidents, 2001 13.30
increased by 12%,the Roche Accident Rate (RAR) 5 10 15 20
rose by12.5%.
In addition to Roche employees, a total of 133
employees from contractor firms were involved in
accidents, i.e. 3.1% more than the previous year.
The figure parallels the number ofcontractors,who
in the past year worked mainly in the construction
sector.
Occupational illnesses
The total number ofoccupational illnesses reported
increased by 60%, 42% more working days were
lost as a result of illness in the year under review.
The types of illnesses reported over the last few
years have remained unchanged.Locomotor disor-
ders continue to be the most common. Most of
these are back problems and especially inflamma-
tion of the upper extremities caused by repetitive
movements.Illnesses relating to the use of chemi-
cals are limited to allergies;there were,however,no
cases ofintoxication.
Incidents
In 2005 no incident or accident with a significant
impact on people or the environment was reported
anywhere in the Roche Group.Owing to the small
number of minor incidents, statistical analysis of
such events is virtually impossible. Nevertheless,
human error has been identified as the main cause.
Transport
As in previous years,road transport accounted for
the bulk of all goods moved (81.6%), followed
by air transport (14%). Only two incidents were
reported in 2005:A lorry loaded with pharmaceu-
tical active substance was stolen, and the cargo of
another lorry was destroyed as a result of an acci-
dent.
5
01 51 02
Roche Accident Rate (RAR)
2005 0.099
2004 0.088
2003 0.10
2002 0.13
2001 0.16
50.0 01.0 51.0 02.0
Safety, health and environmental protection
Occupational illnesses 2005
Roche Group
No. of recognised cases of
occupational illnesses 333
Lost working days 1,416
Various transport modes in 2005
shown as a percentage
Road 81.5%
Rail 0.1%
Sea 4.4%
Air 14%
Inland waterways 0%
92 Business Report 2005Safety, health and environmental protection
Environmental protection
Energy consumption
Sustainable development also implies responsible
use of the resource energy.Roche has therefore set
itself two goals for reducing energy consumption
in the company:Alongside the corporate target of
reducing energy consumption by 10% in relation
to sales within five years (by 2008), an additional
longer-term goal has been formulated: to reduce
consumption by a further10% in relation to head-
count for the period 2005–2010. There is a close
correlation between energy consumption and CO
2
emissions.A decrease in energy consumption will
therefore lead to a reduction in the release ofgreen-
house gases into the atmosphere.
In the year under review,the Roche Group needed
12,515 terajoules ofenergy from various sources to
Natural gas
Oil
2005 2002 2001 Coal
Waste
10,500
Renewable energy
8,400
Electricity
6,300
District heating
4,200
Fleet of vehicles
2,100
Business travel by air
0
Total
run its operations.This figure includes the energy
required to run the Group companies and the fleet
of vehicles as well as the energy consumed for
business travel.In absolute terms,consumption has
thus risen by 5.2% year-on-year;however,use per
employee has actually fallen by0.4%.
Greenhouse gases
Roche supports the efforts of the international
community,as laid down in the Kyoto Protocol,to
adopt a worldwide approach to controlling global
Business Report 2005 93
007,3 885 127 351 851 673,2 696,7 427,3 478 157 551 071 735,2 112,8
2003
757,3 036 407 161 212 636,2 001,8
2004
200,5 447 695 141 65 035,3 702 550,1 381,1 515,21 825,4 748 537 971 09 966,3 909,11
warming and the greenhouse gases which are res-
ponsible for it. The Group-wide target of a 10%
decrease in these emissions in relation to sales by
2008 through its own measures has already been
reached. Trading of emissions certificates is cur-
rently not an option for us and is unlikely to
become so in the foreseeable future.
Greenhouse gas emissions are measured in accor-
dance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which
serves as the GRI standard. This requires us to
account for direct emissions (power generation
from fossil fuels, waste incineration, fleet of vehi-
cles,business travel,wastewater treatment) as well
as those from imported energy (electricity).
Greenhouse gas emissions at Roche mostly consist
of CO from power generation. Direct emissions
2
from the combustion of fossil fuels account for
about halfofCO output.Approximately 45% ofall
2
Energy consumption 20051
1 Figures in TJ = 1012 Joules
emissions comes from the CO resulting from
2
imported energy, in particular electricity. Roche
was responsible for CO emissions that amounted
2
to1,059,304 metric tons in 2005.
Halogenated hydrocarbons play a smaller role in
greenhouse gas emissions.They are used in cooling
and air conditioning installations as well as in fire
extinguishing equipment.In 2005 these emissions
amounted to 7.2 metric tons.The global warming
potential ofhalogenated hydrocarbons is converted
into CO equivalents,using the conversion factors
2Specific contribution to the anthropogenic greenhouse effect, Roche Group
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
CO emissions from combustion (t) 1,059,304 1,014,000 334,000 326,000 348,000
2
CO equivalents from halogenated
2
hydrocarbon emissions1(t) 19,141 13,567 27,497 40,289 23,281
CO equivalents total 1,078,445 1,027,567 361,497 366,289 371,281
2
Sales (in Swiss francs millions) 35,511 29,522 28,960 26,545 25,761
CO equivalents (t)/1 million francs of sales 30.37 34.80 12.48 13.80 14.41
2
1Mean global warming potential of halogenated hydrocarbons based on recalculation using conversion factor from IPCC
Halogenated hydrocarbon emissions (t)
2005 7.2
2004 5.6
2003 7.6
2002 9.8
2001 8.7
2 4 6 8
01 21
Halogenated hydrocarbon inventory (t)
2005 148.9
2004 157.5
2003 122.2
2002 114.8
2001 110.3
0
23 46 69
821 061
2005 2003 2002 2001
962,500
825,000
687,500
550,000
412,500
275,000
137,500
0
294,602 393,94 648,86 841,9 978,333 445,302 878,24 024,96 025,01 263,623 248,302 974,46 391,17 278,8 683,843
2004
000,572 000,65 000,85 000,01 000,084 000,37 000,48 000,42 000,950,1 000,542 000,56 000,27 000,21 000,410,1
Safety, health and environmental protection
stipulated by the Intergovernmental Panel on fall in the inventory ofthese compounds compared
Climate Change (IPCC), and added to the total with the previous year illustrates the progress made
quantity ofCO emissions. in implementing these guidelines.
2
The Roche climate strategy prescribes measures Greenhouse effect – Roche’s contribution
to lower emissions in both areas: the close link
between power generation and CO output means To calculate Roche’s exact contribution to the
2
that energy saving measures will automatically lead greenhouse effect – expressed in CO equivalents
2
to a reduction in CO emissions.Corporate guide- per million francs of sales – greenhouse gas emis-
2
lines exist in relation to the use of halogenated sions and sales serve as benchmarks. In 2005 this
hydrocarbons in cooling systems, outlining their results in a value of30.37,representing an improve-
gradual phasing-out from use by 2015. The 5.4% ment of12.7% over 2004.
CO emissions (t/year)
2
Natural gas
Oil
Coal
Waste
Imported energy
Fleet of vehicles
Business travel by air
Wastewater treatment
Total CO
2
94 Business Report 2005Safety, health and environmental protection
Waste
In 2005 the volume of waste from chemical pro-
duction amounted to 38,380 metric tons,ofwhich
37,116 metric tons were incinerated. The rest,
including inert substances such as the incineration
residues slag and ash, but also sewage sludge, was
deposited in landfills. As waste or by-products,
5,674 metric tons of residual substances were re-
cycled. The total of general waste came to 17,604
metric tons in 2005, of which 1,732 metric tons
were construction waste,the majority ofwhich was
deposited in landfills.A total of12,597 metric tons
ofgeneral waste was deposited in landfills.
2005 2003 2002 2001
35,000
30,000
Incineration
25,000
Landfill
20,000
Construction debris
15,000
Total landfilled
10,000
Total
5,000
Recycling
0
Business Report 2005 95
700,5 568,01 237,1 795,21 406,71 381,22 796,4 179,11 789,2 859,41 556,91 580,42 147,4 931,8 115,4 056,21 193,71 130,13 701,6 153,6 889,3 933,01 644,61 592,02
2004
612,5 821,61 442,7 821,61 443,12 512,92
General waste (figures in t/year)
Chemical waste (figures in t/year)
2005 2003 2002 2001
60,000
50,000
40,000
Incineration
30,000
Landfill
20,000
Total
10,000
Valorised
0
611,73 462,1 083,83 476,5 082,14 991,1 974,24 749,94 280,83 500,1 060,93 803,75 305,03 671,1 976,13 232,62
2004
977,14 999 877,24 295,3
General waste in 2005 (in metric tons per year)
Roche Group
Incineration 5,007
Landfill 12,597
of which construction waste 1,732
Total 17,604
Recycling 22,183
Chemical waste in 2005 (in metric tons per year)
Roche Group
Incineration 37,116
Landfill 1,264
Total 38,380
Valorisation 5,674Safety, health and environmental protection
Contaminated sites are the responsibility of the originator
Industrial activities can leave traces in the subsoil at the As soon as a contaminated site is brought to our atten-
sites in question. The substances used at installations tion, we authorise the studies required to evaluate the
where chemicals are manufactured or processed often associated risks. Depending on the outcome, steps for
leave residues in the soil. In addition, by its very nature containment or, if necessary, remediation of the site are
the synthesis of pharmaceutical substances results not subsequently taken. This process is conducted in close
only in the desired substance, but also in by-products collaboration with the competent authorities and in
which ultimately have to be disposed of as chemical compliance with current legislation.
waste. In the past, a lack of know-how and the appro-
priate technical resources meant that landfill dumping Where we have been solely responsible for a contami-
was the disposal method of choice. This approach was nated site or a landfill, we have promptly conducted an
governed by legislation, as a result of which various investigation and taken all the necessary remediation
local authorities have made suitable plots of land measures. Thus, for example, a number of contami-
available for a charge, often for joint use by a number nated sites, originating with companies prior to their
of companies. acquisition by Roche, have been remediated. Conver-
sely, Roche continues to assume responsibility and the
Improved knowledge of geological characteristics and costs of any necessary remediation of contaminated
negative experiences with leaking earth formations sites or landfills arising in connection with the Vitamins
have led to the discontinuation of landfills for the dis- Division, which has been sold, and to bear the costs
posal of chemical waste. Contaminated sites are sub- relating to such actions. Sizeable reserves have been
ject to increased monitoring and thorough examination set aside for this purpose.
in order to evaluate the associated risks and initiate
the steps required for containment or remediation of In the case of landfill sites shared with other compa-
the site in question. nies, collaboration is sought with all parties concerned
in order to come up with solutions that are acceptable
Since Roche has always been a pharmaceutical com- to all.
pany with relatively low volumes of chemical produc-
tion, our total quantities of chemical waste and share of We accept responsibility for all waste deposited by
deposits in common landfill sites are as a rule small. Roche at its sites or in landfills, even if the method of
disposal was widespread at the time and based on the
relevant legal requirements.
96 Business Report 2005Safety, health and environmental protection
2005 2003 2002 2001
1,200 Non-
halogenated VOCs
1,000
Halogenated VOCs
800
Total VOCs
600
NO
400 x
SO
200 2
Total inorganic
0
Wastewater
The organic carbon load is measured as total
organic carbon (TOC) after wastewater treatment.
A total of1,830 metric tons was discharged in 2004.
In addition, heavy metal discharges in wastewater
amounted to1,463 metric tons.
Business Report 2005 97
965 53 406 363 151 415 504 44 944 513 951 474 896 64 447 324 822 156 267 14 308 904 634 548
2004
969 14 010,1 244 162 307
Atmospheric emissions in 2005 (in metric tons per year)
Emissions into water 2005
2005 1,830
1,463
2004 1,344
2,231
2003 682
414
2002 683
654
2001 317
434
0
005
000,1 005,1 000,2 005,2
Air emissions
In 2005 Roche was responsible for 514 metric tons
of inorganic emissions in the form of sulphur
dioxide (SO) and nitrogen oxides (NO). These
2 x
substances were the result ofincineration processes
in energy generation.Air emissions of soot parti-
culates and dust came to 50 metric tons.Emissions
of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) came to
604 metric tons,ofwhich 6% contain halogens.
TOC (in metric tons/year)
Heavy metals (in kg/year)Water consumption
Reporting on water consumption at Roche is based
on the GRI Water Protocol. In 2004, 3.9 million
metric tons ofwater were consumed,i.e.went into
a product or were vaporised in cooling or air con-
ditioning systems.7.1 million metric tons ofwaste-
water from chemical production were purified in
wastewater treatment plants; 9.8 million metric
tons represented water from cooling systems that
could be returned to receiving waters after thor-
ough analysis without further purification.
Special chemicals
Halogenated solvents (in metric tons per year)
In the year under review, a total of 4,346 metric
tons of halogenated solvents were used by Roche
production facilities and laboratories. Methylene 2005 4,346
chloride accounted for the greater part ofthis total, 2004 3,410
at around 98%.Production ofthe active substance 2003 5,405
used in the AIDS drug Fuzeon accounted for more 2002 4,537
than half the total used. The higher consumption 2001 2,339
reported in 2005 reflects the increase in production
volume. Chloroform is used in small quantities
only in laboratories.
In compliance with a Group Directive, all Roche
affiliates supply figures regarding quantities and
use of substances that,as precursor substances for
chemical weapons,drugs or narcotics,are subject to
international regulation. The quantities reported
have remained at a consistently low level for a num-
ber of years. These compounds were used for the
manufacture of Roche products. No such sub-
stances were sold to third parties.
0
005,1 000,3 005,4 000,6
Safety, health and environmental protection
Water consumption (in million cubic metres per year)
Roche Group
Withdrawal from various sources 20.8
Purified in treatment plants 7.1
Returned to receiving waters 9.8
Used 3.9
Consumption (t)
98 Business Report 2005Safety, health and environmental protection
Business Report 2005 99‘I’ve got my independence back.’
100 Business Report 2005Self-monitoring lets patients get on
with their lives
At age 19 Alexander Bäcker very nearly died.
During a school trip the young German
collapsed and had to be rushed to hospital,
where doctors discovered that he had meningitis
and a cerebral hemorrhage.Alexander survived,
but his speech was severely impaired.And the
episode also left him requiring life-long treatment
with blood-thinning anticoagulants, which
meant that he had to report regularly to a doctor
to have his therapy monitored.
Alexander quickly overcame his speech
impairment. He trained as a social care provider
and now works predominantly with people
with disabilities.Two years ago he regained
even more of his old independence thanks to
a device that’s scarcely bigger than a cell phone.
With his CoaguChek S,Alexander is now able
to monitor his anticoagulant therapy himself,
eliminating the need for weekly trips to the
doctor.
Last year Alexander, who is now 28, went
on a nine-month, round-the-world trip that
took him to the United States,Australia, New
Zealand and Japan.Travelling with him were
his girlfriend and the companion that made
the trip possible in the first place,his CoaguChek.
Monitoring
Patients on anticoagulants have to monitor their coagulation
status closely so that they can keep the dose at the right level.
There was a time when this required a trip to the hospital or a
doctor’s office. Now devices like CoaguChek S are giving patients
their independence back by enabling them to monitor their treat-
ment themselves.
Business Report 2005 101Assurance
Assurance
Independent Assurance Report on the Roche tional Framework Standards for Assurance Engage-
Group Sustainability Reporting 2005 ments, approved December 2003 by the Interna-
tional Auditing and Assurance Standards Board
(IAASB).
To the Roche Corporate Sustainability Committee
We planned and performed our evidence-gathering
We have been engaged to provide assurance on procedures to obtain a basis for our conclusions
the Sustainability Reporting of Roche and its in accordance to the International Standard on
consolidated subsidiaries excluding Chugai and Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 ‘Assurance
Genentech (the ‘Group’), all for the year ended Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of
December 31,2005.We have performed evidence- Historical Information’, approved December 2003
gathering procedures on (hereafter jointly referred by the IAASB.
as the ‘subject matter’):
• The SHE key figures of the table entitled ‘most The scope of our evidence-gathering procedures
important SHE key figures’on page 86; was to:
• Some selected social dimension information • Assess how Roche staff apply the Group internal
(‘social data’);and sustainability reporting guidelines at the site level
• The management and reporting for the prepara- using a sample of five production sites covering
tion ofthe report and figures. the Pharmaceutical and Diagnostics divisions;
• Test the effectiveness ofthe internal sustainability
We have evaluated the subject matter against the reporting system used to collect SHE data and the
following criteria (the ‘evaluation criteria’) des- social data from Group sites;
cribed on page 58: • Observe compliance with the Group internal sus-
• The Roche Group internal sustainability repor- tainability reporting guidelines at selected sites;
ting guidelines with respect to the Responsible and
Care Health,Safety and Environmental reporting • Perform specific procedures to check,on a sample
guidelines published by the European Chemical basis,the SHE data and the social data.
Industry Council CEFIC and the ‘Sustainability
Reporting Guidelines 2002’ published by the Our evidence-gathering procedures included the
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI); following work:
• The procedures by which the SHE data and the • Visiting selected sites in Austria, South Africa,
social data are prepared,collated and aggregated Turkey and the US
internally;and • Interviewing the responsible stafffor data collec-
• The control environment over the accuracy and tion and sustainability reporting on the sites we
completeness ofthe SHE data and the social data. visited and on Group level;
Our statement should be read in conjunction with • Assessing the data consolidation process on
the inherent limitations ofaccuracy and complete- Group level;
ness for sustainability data,as well as in connection • Reading and performing tests ofthe relevant doc-
with the Roche Group internal reporting guidelines umentation on a sample basis, including Group
explained on page 88 and the ‘scope of reporting’ policies, management and reporting structures,
on page 88. documentation and systems used to collect,ana-
lyze and aggregate reported SHE data and social
Roche Group is responsible for both, the subject data;and
matter and the evaluation criteria. • Performing tests on a sample basis on evidence
supporting selected SHE data and social data
Our responsibility is to report on the internal with regard to the reported data aggregation
reporting processes,data,and key figures for Social from the selected sites to Group level.However,
Dimension and SHE based on our evidence-ga- we have not performed site visits at Chugai and
thering procedures in accordance with Interna- Genentech.
102 Business Report 2005Assurance
In our opinion
• the Roche Group internal sustainability reporting
guidelines are applied properly at the selected
sites;
• the internal SHE reporting system to collect the
SHE data is functioning as designed;and
• the social dimension reporting provides an
appropriate basis for the disclosure of social
dimension information, in all material respects,
based on the evaluation criteria.
Based on our work described in this report,nothing
has come to our attention that causes us not to
believe that the procedures by which the SHE data
and social dimension information was prepared,
collated and aggregated and the control environ-
ment at the selected sites are based on established
and accepted measurement and analytical methods
and give a fair picture ofthe SHE and social dimen-
sion performance,in all material respects,based on
the evaluation criteria.
PricewaterhouseCoopers AG
Dr Thomas Scheiwiller Jürg Hutter
Zurich,16 January,2006
Business Report 2005 103Track record 2005/Outlook 2006
Track record 2005/Outlook 2006
Objectives Goals Targets 2006 & onwards Achievements 2005
General
Remain top tier regarding • Increase internal and external • Remain in top quartile of • Renewed inclusion in
transparency on sustainability awareness, and improve posi- indexes & ratings within FTSE4Good and DJSI
related activities tion in external investigations healthcare sector • New website to be launched
• Revised website based on in the first quarter of 2006
stakeholder feedback • Sustainability topics inte-
• Expansion of communication grated into overall
activities sustainability communication strategy
both internally and externally • Sustainability included as
topic at key internal corporate
events
Establish the Roche Business • Identification of drivers of • Establish and implement • Workshop held with members
Case for Sustainability business case, and monitoring process from all corporate and
and measuring against • Document the business case divisional functions to identify
appropriate KPIs • Define a set of relevant key key areas
performance indicators (KPIs) • Integrated Operations section
of Annual Report with Sustain-
ability Report to form single
Business Review 2005
Ethics, Governance and Responsible Management
Strengthen business ethics • Increase awareness and • High participation rate in • Publication on Roche Intranet
awareness adherence to Roche’s Corpo- new e-learning tool on and Internet sites of the Roche
rate Principles and Roche’s Roche’s Code of Conduct Corporate Principles together
directives, guidelines, and • No incidents with Roche’s directives, guide-
regulations (which together lines, policies and regulations
form Roche’s Code of Conduct) which form Roche’s Code of
Conduct
• Development new e-learning
tool
Ensure highest standards in • Independent external body to • Discussion of controversial • Establishment of a Clinical
relation to Human Subject review escalated ethical political and ethical topics Research Ethical Advisory
Research and create more issues: Clinical Research Ethi- • Inclusion of all data from Group (CREAG)
transparency with regards cal Advisory Group (CREAG) phase II-IV trials on • Established Clinical Trial Pro-
to clinical trials • Recognised as having leading products marketed since tocol Registry and Results
Clinical Trial Protocol Registry 1 October 2002 Database (259 trials registered)
and Results Database
Continue implementation new • All future and retrospective • 100% of all contracts • 100% all new contracts have
Supply Chain policy contracts aligned with incorporate new policy incorporate Roche supplier
the supply chain policy policy
Coordinate Social, Environmental • Alignment of the SEE Risk • Establishment of clear pro- • Responsibilities for assessment
& Ethical (SEE) risk assessment with the cedure for assessing SEE risks of SEE risks defined &
identification and management Group Risk Report process allocated
• Rigorous SHE management
system with focus on risk
assessment, risk reduction
measures and audits
104 Business Report 2005Track record 2005/Outlook 2006
Objectives Goals Targets 2006 & onwards Achievements 2005
Ensure appropriate and respon- • Global coordinator system • Continuation of audits • Revised animal welfare paper
sible use of animal resources introduced/implemented in • Documentation and • Global coordinator for animal
all sites adjustment of processes welfare identified at all sites
• AAALAC accreditation of • Proof of accreditation on
all Roche Research Sites Sustainability website
conducting animals tests
Contribution to Society
Develop new health solutions • Produce medically differenti- • Number of new innovative Key innovative launches
for unsolved health problems ated products which are either products launched • Avastin
with high medical need first in class or best in class • Herceptin
• Tarceva
• Bonviva/Boniva
• AmpliChip CYP450
Improve access to healthcare in • Recognised in top quartile of • Monitor pricing • Clinical trial policies in
developed and least developed companies ensuring access • Improved website & Least Developed Countries
countries to healthcare documents/brochures and Sub-Saharan Africa
• Improve transparency of • Rating • Further reduction in pricing
Roche activities in this area • Activities • Tiered pricing for Tamiflu
Corporate policy/position on • Formal CSR policy • Internally and externally Review process initiated
Corporate Responsibility (CSR)/ established CSR policy
philanthropy • Continuously updated reports
on CSR activities on
Sustainability website
• Updating of internal
action plan
• Regular and transparent
reporting
Stakeholder Dialogue
Improve systematic • Identification of key stake- • Good results in external • Published list of memberships
stakeholder dialogue holders with established ratings and key partners on the web
communication channels • Establishment of an agenda • Stakeholder survey performed
• Provide consistent and and defining of responsibilities • Conditions created for collec-
timely communication with • Continuous reporting on ting data on NGO contacts
all stakeholders dialogue on website
Valuing Employees
Keep and improve our position • Recognised as a top tier • Good results in peer review Numerous awards such as
as employer of choice employer in the industry and relevant awards Science, Fortune
within the healthcare industry • Maintain high level of rela- • Low rate of regretted losses
tionship within the company
as part of the Corporate
Culture
Business Report 2005 105Track record 2005/Outlook 2006
Objectives Goals Targets 2006 & onwards Achievements 2005
Safety, Health and Environmental Protection
• Reduce accident rate • 0.099 to 0.079 Roche Accident Rate (RAR) RAR 2005: 0.099
• 20% reduction in 2010 vs. 2005
• Reduce absence rate (incl. • 68.9 to 55.12 h/employee 68.9
illness and home accidents) •10% reduction in 2015 vs. 2005
• Reduce energy consumption • 184 to 166 GJ/employee 184
• 10% reduction in 2010 vs. 2005
• Improve total ecobalance • 6.58 to 5.93 Points/employee 6.58
• 10% improvement in 2015 vs.
2005
• No relevant SHE fines 0 No fines of more than No relevant fines
CHF 100,000
• Reduce GHG emissions • 35.9 to 32.3 CO equivalents/sales 29.38
2
• 10% reduction in 2008 vs. 2003
• Reduce VOC emissions • 0.035 to 0.032 Tonnes of VOC/sales 0.017
•10% reduction in 2008 vs. 2003
Develop strategy or position • Have public position on key Position on contaminated sites,
on key topics related to SHE topics of public interest other issues
matters
106 Business Report 2005The key performance indicators
The key performance indicators
Economic and business performance 2005 2004
Sales (continuing operations) (in CHF millions) 35,511 29,522
EBITDA (continuing operations) (in CHF millions) 11,404 9,047
Operating profit (before exceptional items) (in CHF millions) 9,025 6,766
Net income (in CHF millions) 6,730 7,063
Core earnings per share diluted (CHF) 7.68 5.72
Research and development (in CHF millions) 5,705 5,154
Research and development as % of sales 16.1 17.4
Contacts with stakeholders
Dividends distributed (in CHF millions) 2,156 1,725
Taxes paid (in CHF millions) 2,224 1,865
Personnel costs (in CHF millions) 9,049 8,354
Patients participating in clinical trials 130,000 (not available)
Patients benefiting from donations over 1,000,000 (not available)
Commitment to employees
Newly created positions 3,624 2,387
Number of employees 68,218 64,594
of whom women (as a %) 43 42
Percentage of women in management positions (as a %) 32 31
Fluctuation (as a %) 6.7 6.1
Number of training hours per employee 26.7 23
Percentage of country affiliates with local general manager (as a %) 60 56
Safety, health and environmental protection
Investments in SHE (in millions of Swiss francs) 240 160
Operating costs for SHE (in millions of francs) 356 323
Work-related accidents per million working hours 4.66 4.78
Workdays lost due to work-related accidents 6,629 5,051
Occupational illnesses per million working hours 2.76 2.03
Workdays lost due to occupational illnesses 1,416 996
Work-related accidents per million working hours (contractor firms) 133 129
Total energy consumption (TJ/year) 12,515 11,899
CO (t/year) 1,059,304 1,013,860
2
NO (t/year) 363 442
x
SO (t/year) 151 261
2
VOCs (t/year) 604 1,010
Particulate matter (t/year) 50 63
Water consumption (in million cubic meters per year) 3.9 4.3
TOC (t/year) 1,830 1,344
Heavy metals (t/year) 1.463 2.231
Chemical waste (t/year) 38,380 42,722
Business Report 2005 107GRI reference list
GRI reference list
Vision and Strategy 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Page in report/remarks
1.1 Statement of the organisation’s vision (cid:2) Pages 48
and strategy regarding its contribution to sustainable development.
1.2 Statement from the CEO. (cid:2) Page 4
Profile
Organisational Profile
2.1 Name of reporting organisation. (cid:2) (cid:2) Page 3
2.2 Major products and/or services. (cid:2) (cid:2) Pages 24, 25, 38, 40
2.3 Operational structure of the organisation. (cid:2) (cid:2) Page 58
2.4 Description of major divisions, (cid:2)
operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures
2.5 Countries in which the organisation’s operations are located. (cid:2) (cid:2) Page 115
2.6 Nature of ownership; legal form. (cid:2)
2.7 Nature of markets served. (cid:2) (cid:2) Pages 26, 33
2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation:
• number of employees; (cid:2) (cid:2) Page 72
• products produced/services offered (quantity or volume); (cid:2)
• net sales; (cid:2) (cid:2) Page 2
• total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity. (cid:2)
In addition to the above, reporting organisations are encouraged to
provide additional information, such as:
• value added; (cid:2)
• total assets; and (cid:2)
• breakdowns of any or all of the following:
• sales/revenues by countries/regions that make up 5 percent (cid:2) According to region, no further detail
or more of total revenues;
• major products and/or identified services; (cid:2) Only products with highest sales, Pages 24, 25, 34, 35, 40
• costs by country/region; and (cid:2)
• employees by country/region. (cid:2) (cid:2) Page 72
2.9 List of stakeholders, key attributes of each, (cid:2)
and relationship to the reporting organisation.
Report Scope
2.10 Contact person(s) for the report, including e-mail and web addresses. (cid:2) Page 114
2.11 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. (cid:2)
2.12 Date of most recent previous report (if any). (cid:2) Page 88
2.13 Boundaries of report and any specific limitations on the scope. (cid:2) Page 88
2.14 Significant changes in size, structure, ownership, (cid:2) (cid:2) Page 88
or products/services that have occurred since the previous report.
2.15 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, partially owned subsidiaries, (cid:2) Based on CEFIC; all required parameters are shown
leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other situations that can
significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or
between reporting organisations.
2.16 Explanation of the nature and effect of any re-statements of information (cid:2) Page 88
provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatement.
Report Profile
2.17 Decisions not to apply GRI principles (cid:2)
or protocols in the preparation of the report.
2.18 Criteria/definitions used in any accounting for economic, (cid:2)
environmental, and social costs and benefits.
2.19 Significant changes from previous years in the (cid:2) (cid:2) Page 88
measurement methods applied to key economic,
environmental, and social information.
2.20 Policies and internal practices to enhance and (cid:2) Page 58
provide assurance about the accuracy, completeness, and reliability
that can be placed on the Sustainability Report.
2.21 Policy and current practice with regard to (cid:2) Page 102
providing independent assurance for the full report.
2.22 Means by which report users can obtain additional information (cid:2) Page 117
and reports about economic, environmental, and social aspects
of the organisation’s activities, including facility-specific information
(if available).
108 Business Report 2005GRI reference list
Governance structures and management systems 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Page in report/remarks
Structure and Governance
3.1 Governance structure of the organisation. (cid:2) (cid:2) Pages 48–57
3.2 Percentage of the board of directors that are independent, (cid:2) (cid:2) Page 44
non-executive directors.
3.3 Process for determining the expertise board members need to guide (cid:2) (cid:2) Page 48
the strategic direction of the organisation, including issues related to
environmental and social risks and opportunities.
3.4 Board-level processes for overseeing the organisation’s identification (cid:2) Pages 48, 59
and management of economic, environmental,
and social risks and opportunities.
3.5 Linkage between executive compensation and achievement (cid:2) (cid:2) Page 49
of the organisation’s financial and non-financial goals
(e.g., environmental performance, labour practices).
3.6 Organisational structure and key individuals responsible for oversight, (cid:2) (cid:2) Page 57
implementation, and audit of economic, environmental,
social, and related policies.
3.7 Mission and values statements, internally developed codes (cid:2) Pages 58–60
of conduct or principles, and polices relevant to economic, environmental,
and social performance and the status of implementation.
3.8 Mechanisms for shareholders to provide recommendations (cid:2) (cid:2) Page 55
or direction to the board of directors.
Stakeholder Engagement
3.9 Basis for identification and selection of major stakeholders. (cid:2) Page 66
3.10 Approaches to stakeholder consultation reported (cid:2)
in terms of frequency of consultations by type
and by stakeholder group.
3.11 Type of information generated by stakeholder consultations. (cid:2)
3.12 Use of information resulting from stakeholder engagements. (cid:2) Page 66
Overarching Policies and Management Systems
3.13 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or (cid:2)
principle is addressed by the organisation.
3.14 Externally developed, voluntary economic, environmental, (cid:2) Pages 63, 67, 68, 86
and social charters, sets of principles, or other initiatives
to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses.
3.15 Principal memberships in industry and business associations, (cid:2) Page 67
and/or national/international advocacy organisations.
3.16 Policies and/or systems for managing upstream
and downstream impacts, including:
• supply chain management as it pertains to outsourcing (cid:2) Page 68
and supplier environmental and social performance; and
• product and service stewardship initiatives. (cid:2) Page 53
3.17 Reporting organisation’s approach to managing indirect economic, (cid:2) Page 58
environmental, and social impacts resulting from its activities.
3.18 Major decisions during the reporting period regarding (cid:2)
the location of, or changes in, operations.
3.19 Programmes and procedures pertaining to economic, environmental,
and social performance.
Include discussion of:
• priority and target setting; (cid:2) Page 104
• major programmes to improve performance; (cid:2) Page 104
• internal communication and training; (cid:2) Page 104
• performance monitoring; (cid:2) Page 104
• internal and external auditing; and (cid:2) Pages 87, 102
• senior management review. (cid:2) Page 58
3.20 Status of certification pertaining to economic, environmental, (cid:2) Page 102
and social management systems.
GRI Content Index
4.1 A table identifying location of each element of the GRI Report (cid:2) Page 108
Content, by section and indicator.
Business Report 2005 109GRI reference list
Economic performance indicators 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Page in report/remarks
Customers
EC1: Net sales (cid:2) (cid:2) Page 2
EC2: Geographic breakdown of markets (cid:2) (cid:2) Pages 19, 33
Suppliers
EC3: Cost of all goods, materials, and services purchased (cid:2)
EC4: Percentage of contracts that were paid in accordance (cid:2) In principal each contract is carried out
with agreed terms. according to the agreed terms.
Employees
EC5: Total payroll and benefits (cid:2) (cid:2) Page 72
Capital providers
EC6: Distributions to providers of capital (cid:2)
EC7: Increase/decrease in retained earnings at end of period (cid:2)
Public sector
EC8: Total sum of taxes of all types broken down by country (cid:2) (cid:2) Page 67. Total income taxes are shown
(not broken down by country)
EC9: Subsidies received (cid:2)
EC10: Donations (cid:2) Roche does not currently issue any
global figures as they have only limited significance.
Environmental performance indicators
Material
EN1: Total materials used other than water, by type (cid:2) The production of individual pharmaceutical substances
takes place using completely different syntheses in many
different places and at different times. This figure does
not have any continuity and as such does not value in the
estimation of environmental performance..
EN2: Percentage of materials used that are wastes (cid:2) See remarks for EN1.
Energy
EN3: Direct energy use (cid:2) Page 93
EN4: Indirect energy use (cid:2) Page 93
EN17: Initiatives to increase energy efficiency (cid:2) Pages 87, 89, 94
EN19: Other indirect energy use (cid:2) Page 93
Water
EN5: Total water use (cid:2) Page 98
Biodiversity
EN6: Biodiversity-rich habitats (cid:2) Not relevant to Roche business
EN7: Impacts on biodiversity (cid:2) Eco-toxicological material data for intermediate and
end products are being prepared but are not published
in this report.
Emissions, Effluents, and Waste
EN8: Greenhouse gas emissions (cid:2) Pages 93, 94
EN9: Use and emissions of ozone-depleting substances (cid:2) Page 97
EN10: NO, SO and other significant air emissions by typen (cid:2) Page 97
x 2
EN11: Total amount of waste (cid:2) Page 95
EN12: Significant discharges to water by type (cid:2) Page 97
EN13: Significant spills of chemicals, oils, and fuels (cid:2) Page 98
Products and services
EN14: Significant environmental impacts (cid:2) Environmental risk assessments of principal products
and services were prepared for all active substances but
are not published in this report.
EN15: Recyclable products (cid:2) Page 95. Valorised by-products, recycled solvents.
Compliance
EN16: Fines for non-compliance (cid:2) Page 86
EN35: Total environmental expenditures by type (cid:2) Page 89
Social performance indicators
Employment
LA1: Workforce (cid:2) Page 72
LA2. Net employment creation and average turnover (cid:2) Pages 72, 73
Labour/Management relations
LA3: Percentage of employees represented (cid:2) Page 66
LA4: Policy and procedures involving information, (cid:2) Page 66
consultation, and negotiation with employees over changes
110 Business Report 2005GRI reference list
Health and safety 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Page in report/remarks
LA5: Occupational accidents and diseases (cid:2) Page 92
LA6: Health and safety committees (cid:2) Page 91
LA7: Key figures on injury, lost day, and absentee rates (cid:2) Pages 86, 91, 92
and work-related fatalities
LA8: Description of policies or programmes on HIV/AIDS (cid:2) See www.roche.com/home/sustainability/sus_soc/
sus_soc_comm.htm
Training and further education
LA9: Average hours of training per year per employee (cid:2) Page 74
Diversity and opportunity
LA10: Equal opportunity policies and programmes (cid:2) Page 76
LA11: Composition of senior management and corporate governance bodies (cid:2) (cid:2) Pages 18, 32, 47
(including the Board of Directors)
LA12: Employee benefits (cid:2) (cid:2) (cid:2) Locally arranged according to performance of each local
business.
Human rights
Strategy and management
HR1: Prevention of discrimination in business activities (cid:2) (cid:2) Page 77
and procedures to deal with human rights
HR2: Human rights and investment and procurement decisions (cid:2) (cid:2) Page 77
HR3: Human rights and the supply chain (cid:2) (cid:2) Pages 68, 77
Non-discrimination
HR4: Prevention of discrimination in business activities (cid:2) (cid:2) Page 77
Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
HR5: Principles of freedom of association policy (cid:2) (cid:2) Page 66
Child labour
HR6: Principles regarding exclusion of child labour (cid:2) (cid:2) Page 77
Forced and compulsory labour
HR7: Guidelines to prevention of forced and compulsory labour (cid:2) (cid:2) Page 77
Social
Guidelines on communities/companies
SO1: Description of policies to manage impacts on communities areas (cid:2) No general guidelines. Defined locally.
affected by activities, as well as description of procedures/programmes 40% of local companies have their own guidelines.
to address this issue, including monitoring systems
and results of monitoring.
SO4: Awards received relevant to social, ethical, (cid:2)
and environmental performance
Bribery and corruption
SO2: Guidelines to addressing bribery and corruption (cid:2) Page 61
Political support
SO3: Guidelines to managing political lobbying (cid:2) No general guidelines.
and contribution Directed by local arrangements.
Competition and pricing
SO6: Court decisions pertaining to anti-trust and monopoly regulations (cid:2)
SO7: Guidelines to prevention of anti-competitive behaviour (cid:2) Page 61
Product responsibility
Consumer health and safety
PR1: Guidelines to preservation of customer health and safety (cid:2) Page 63 These principles are covered in the pharma-
ceutical industry to a great extent by national and
international laws and guidelines.
Products and services
PR2: Guidelines to product information and labelling (cid:2) Page 63 These principles are covered in the pharma-
ceutical industry to a great extent by national and
international laws and guidelines.
Respect for privacy
PR3: Guidelines to consumer privacy (cid:2) Page 63 These principles are covered in the pharmaceuti-
cal industry to a great extent by national and international
laws and guidelines.
1Indicator and detailed data in report
2Indicator is covered in report but detailed data is not fully available
3Indicator does not apply to Roche
4Data submitted but not published in this report
5Data not available
6To be found in the Finance Report
7No material violations
Business Report 2005 111Sales Manufacturing
Overview Switzerland Czech Republic
Argentina Denmark
Australia Dominican Republic
Austria Ecuador
Bangladesh El Salvador
Belgium Estonia
Bermuda Finland
Brazil France
Canada Germany
Chile Great Britain
China Greece
Colombia Guatemala
Costa Rica Guernsey
112 Business Report 2005Roche – a Global Market Presence
Roche – a Global Market Presence
Research and development Services, financing Toll manufacturing by third parties
Honduras The Netherlands Singapore
Hungary New Zealand Slovenia
India Nicaragua South Africa
Indonesia Norway South Korea
Ireland Pakistan Spain
Italy Panama Sweden
Japan Peru Taiwan
Latvia Philippines Thailand
Lithuania Poland Turkey
Luxembourg Portugal Uruguay
Malaysia Romania USA
Mexico Russia Venezuela
Morocco Serbiaand Montenegro
Business Report 2005 113Published by Cautionary statement regarding forward-
F.Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd looking statements
4070 Basel,Switzerland This Annual Report contains certain forward-look-
Tel.+41 (0)61 688 11 11 ing statements. These forward-looking statements
Fax +41 (0)61 691 93 91 may be identified by words such as ‘believes’,
‘expects’, ‘anticipates’, ‘projects’, ‘intends’, ‘should’,
Media Office ‘seeks’, ‘estimates’, ‘future’ or similar expressions
Corporate Communications or by discussion of, among other things, strategy,
4070 Basel,Switzerland goals, plans or intentions. Various factors may
Tel.+41 (0)61 688 88 88 cause actual results to differ materially in the future
Fax +41 (0)61 688 27 75 from those reflected in forward-looking statements
contained in this Annual Report, among others:
Investor Relations (1)pricing and product initiatives of competitors;
4070 Basel,Switzerland (2) legislative and regulatory developments and
Tel.+41 (0)61 688 88 80 economic conditions; (3) delay or inability in
Fax +41 (0)61 691 00 14 obtaining regulatory approvals or bringing prod-
ucts to market; (4) fluctuations in currency
World Wide Web exchange rates and general financial market condi-
http://www.roche.com tions; (5) uncertainties in the discovery, develop-
ment or marketing of new products or new uses
Corporate Sustainability Committee of existing products, including without limitation
Pierre Jaccoud,Chair negative results ofclinical trials or research projects,
Tel.+41 (0)61 688 85 95 unexpected side-effects of pipeline or marketed
E-mail:pierre.jaccoud@roche.com products; (6) increased government pricing pres-
sures; (7) interruptions in production; (8) loss of
To order publications orinability to obtain adequate protection for intel-
Tel.+41 (0)61 688 83 39 lectual property rights; (9) litigation; (10) loss of
Fax +41 (0)61 688 43 43 key executives or other employees;and (11) adverse
E-mail:basel.webmaster@roche.com publicity and news coverage.
The statement regarding earnings per share growth
is not a profit forecast and should not be inter-
preted to mean that Roche’s earnings or earnings
per share for 2006 or any subsequent period will
necessarily match or exceed the historical published
earnings or earnings per share ofRoche.
Next Annual General Meeting: 27 February 2006
All trademarks mentioned enjoy legal protection.
The Roche Annual Report is published in German
(original language) and English.
Printed on non-chloride bleached paper.
The Roche Annual Report is issued by F. Hoffmann-La Roche
Ltd, Basel, Corporate Communications.
114 Business Report 20057-000-740