Annual Report
2017
P A T I E N T S I N N O V A T I O N P A R T N E R S
We introduced Ocrevus for the A medicine for people with autism In collaboration with partners and
treatment of two forms of multiple spectrum disorder is in phase III authorities we are developing
sclerosis. Ocrevus demonstrated studies. It is the most common our next-generation diagnostic tests
superior efficacy by reducing neuro-developmental condition, and medicines with the aim
relapses and slowing the worsening characterised by difficulties of diagnosing and treating multi-
of disability caused by MS. regarding social interaction. drug-resistant bacterial infections.30
Contents
Overview
07 Our strategy
38
12 Chairman’s shareholder letter
16 CEO’s shareholder letter
Business performance
22 Group performance
24 Diagnostics performance
32 Pharmaceuticals performance
Science and innovation
62
42 Identifying medical need
51 Developing diagnostic tests and health apps
Access to healthcare
56 Joining forces to make a difference
60 Enabling sustainable healthcare funding
People
72
68 Learning and leadership development
70 World-class talent shaping the future
Environment
78 Reducing energy and water consumption
80 Reducing emissions to air and water
Community engagement
88 Strengthening local communities
84
91 Partnering to make a difference
Integrity in business
98 Ensuring business continuity
100 Developing lasting partnerships
Corporate Governance
107 Board of Directors
108 Corporate Executive Committee 92
Remuneration Report
122 Principles
126 Remuneration components
102W ho we are
Innovation: It’s in our DNA. We have always worked across
disciplines and geographies to drive scientific discovery and
redefine what is possible to improve patients’ lives.
We are working on understanding how diseases also the world leader in the in vitro diagnostics
differ down to the molecular level. So we can business. This track record allows us to build lasting
develop new tests and medicines that prevent, and meaningful partnerships across the world with
diagnose and treat diseases, and bring them to research academia and public healthcare institutions.
the patients who need them. With our combined
strengths in diagnostics and pharmaceuticals, The founding families continue to hold the majority
our personalised healthcare strategy aims to fit voting stake in the company. This stability allows for
the right treatment to the right patient. a tradition of sustainable thinking, so we can learn
from setbacks and focus on lasting value for patients
As the world’s largest biotech company, we develop and society. We remain dedicated to the highest
breakthrough medicines, improving the standard standards of quality, safety and integrity. Our legacy
of care across oncology, immunology, infectious is based on respect for the individual as well as the
diseases, ophthalmology and neuroscience. We are communities and the world we live in.Roche’s global presence
93,734
employees* worldwide
Europe
40,753 employees
North America Basel, Kaiseraugst and Rotkreuz, Switzerland ( )
25,144 employees Mannheim and Penzberg, Germany ( )
Genentech, South San Francisco, US ( )
Roche Diagnostics, Indianapolis, US ( )
Asia
21,321 employees
Chugai, Tokyo, Japan ( )
Shanghai and Suzhou, China ( )
Latin America
4,600 employees
Africa Australia/New Zealand
1,177 employees 739 employees
30 26
Research and development sites in Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing sites in Pharmaceuticals and
and Diagnostics worldwide Diagnostics worldwide
Roche Group headquarters Manufacturing sites in Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics
Largest sites based on number of employees Sales sites in Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics
Research and development sites in Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics * Number of employees expressed in full-time equivalentsHighlights
Managing multiple sclerosis Testing for infectious diseases
Ocrevus successfully launched for treatment of two forms Portfolio of cobas Liat system tests extended for fast
of multiple sclerosis, a debilitating disease diagnosis to help control the spread of infectious diseases
Read more on page 28
Read more on page 36
Treating rare blood disorder Improving access to healthcare
Hemlibra approved for treatment of people with haemophilia A Reimbursement for four Roche medicines in China—
with factor VIII inhibitors, a blood disorder making them available to the entire population
Read more on page 37 Read more on page 61
Progress in cancer immunotherapy Contributing to sustainability
Results from a number of Tecentriq clinical studies to date Roche ranked most sustainable healthcare company in the
demonstrate its significant medical benefit Dow Jones Sustainability Indices for the ninth year running
Read more on page 38 Read more on page 13
Key figures
CHF 53,299 million CHF 10,392 million
Group sales +5%** R & D core investments +5%
CHF 19,012 million 30 Roche medicines
Core operating profit +3% on the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines
CHF 8.30 137 million patients
Dividend treated with Roche medicines
** All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2016).2
Our re por ting
approach
Roche is committed to transparent reporting and we endeavour
to drive our economic, social and environmental performance
with the same diligence as our financial performance.
Reporting scope and boundaries business sustainability risks and opportunities on
We provide integrated information about our financial an annual basis and integrate these into our existing
Online Annual and non-financial performance in our Annual Report, risk management process.
Report 2017: our Finance Report, as well as in our online report,
ar17.roche.com which cover all regions and divisions from 1 January to A consolidated Group Risk Report, which covers
31 December 2017. The reporting scope is defined and all material risks, is discussed annually with the
Roche Annual outlined in our Finance Report, and there have been no Corporate Executive Committee and reviewed by
Report 2017 (PDF): significant changes in scope in 2017 compared to 2016. the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and
www.roche.com/ by the Board of Directors. The effectiveness of the
ar17e.pdf Reporting in accordance with the latest risk management process is regularly monitored
GRI guidelines by the Group Risk Advisory team, and the overall
Roche Finance We have followed the GRI G4 guidelines (Global process is reviewed externally when appropriate. Risk
Report 2017 (PDF): Reporting Initiative) since 2014. By using the GRI management is embedded at all levels of the Group.
www.roche.com/ guidelines, we disclose the most critical impacts of our Our Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions and
fb17e.pdf activities on the environment, society and the economy. global functions conduct a formal risk assessment
As of the 2017 reporting period, we transitioned to process at least once a year and must develop risk
Risk management: the newly introduced GRI Standards, which are based plans for their most material risks.
roche.com/risk- on the key concepts and disclosures of the GRI G4
management guidelines. We report in accordance with the standards Group Risk Advisory facilitates risk discussions to
at core level but also go beyond the requirements for support the business in many specialist areas such as
core level for a number of indicators. IT security, as well as compliance and sustainability.
Training sessions and platforms have been established
Risk management to help employees manage, monitor and mitigate
Our Risk Management Policy sets out Roche’s approach risks appropriately.
to identifying, managing and reporting internal and
external risks and opportunities. We also identify Read more in ‘Corporate Governance’ on page 106Our reporting approach | Roche
3
Our 21 material topics
External assurance Tier 1—Fundamental drivers of our ability to deliver
Our current Annual Report includes an independent on our core purpose in the long term
assurance report on our non-financial reporting,
prepared by PricewaterhouseCoopers AG. · R&D pipeline strategy and personalised healthcare
· Employee engagement and talent retention
See ‘Independent assurance report’ on page 148 · Growth strategy in emerging and developed markets
· Product portfolio strategy
Materiality · Patent policies
In accordance with the GRI Standards, we conducted · Leadership Commitments
a first materiality analysis at the corporate level in
2014 and gathered input and feedback through various
internal and external sources, conferences, and by Tier 2—Major influencing factors for our business
conducting regular interviews and one-on-one success in the short and medium term
discussions with key stakeholders. These results have
since been regularly vetted against ongoing stakeholder · Pricing
research across key markets and stakeholder groups. · Disease awareness and treatment education
This enables us to include 21 topics from stakeholder · Compliance
groups that we consider important to our business and . Drug efficacy, safety and counterfeiting
to the healthcare sector, such as patient organisations, · Supply chain management
physicians and laboratory staff, employees, media, · Biosimilar safety
investors, payers, regulators and governments. In 2017, · Sustainable healthcare
21 material topics were screened against priorities
deemed key to Roche in three tiers—firstly, fundamental
drivers of our ability to deliver on our core purpose in Tier 3—Additional material topics
the long term; secondly, additional annually reviewed
major influencing factors for our business success · Executive remuneration Materiality:
in the short and medium term; and finally, all other · Compensation/benefits roche.com/
material topics, providing three levels of priority in · Organisational effectiveness materiality
addressing material topics. · Environmental responsibility
· Community engagement Key performance
These three tiers and 21 material topics are reflected in · Patient organisation support indicators:
our business priorities, in the report content (highlighted · Data transparency on clinical trials roche.com/
at the beginning of each chapter), as well as in aspect · Occupational accidents performance
boundaries according to the GRI. We build concrete
actions relating to these topics into operational activities,
and measure performance through defined indicators.
See ‘Our strategy’ on page 74
Our approach
to su stainability
What sustainability means to us: It’s the alignment of an
individual’s goals with the interests of society. Preserving natural
resources ultimately helps to meet those goals. By acting sustainably,
Our contribution
to the UN SDGs:
we contribute positively towards the development of the world.
roche.com/un-sdgsSDGs | Roche
5
We have been committed to sustainability for many years and contribute to
a number of the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Innovating for patients · 137 million patients treated with Roche medicines Supporting
· 19 billion tests conducted with Roche Diagnostics products SDG 3
· 30 Roche medicines on the WHO* Model List of Essential Medicines
Being a trustworthy partner · 41 new partnerships in Diagnostics Supporting
· 118 new partnerships in Pharmaceuticals SDGs 16, 17
· 100% of approximately 1,000 business-critical suppliers risk-assessed
Protecting the environment · 11% decrease in water consumption since 2015 Supporting
· 9% decrease in energy consumption since 2015 SDGs 6, 7, 13
· 20% improvement in the eco-balance since 2014
Delivering continued growth · +5%** in Group sales Supporting
· +3% in core operating profit SDGs 8, 9
· Sustainability leader within the Pharmaceuticals, Biotechnology & Life Sciences
Industry index (as per DJSI)
Providing a great workplace · 72% employee engagement rate Supporting
· 28% of women in key leadership positions SDGs 4, 5
· 24% of key leaders with diverse work experience
* World Health Organization | ** All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2016).6
What we do
Our focus Our people
Fitting treatments to patients Making their mark
Our distinctiveness Our decision-making
Excellence in science Accountable and transparent
Our delivery Our structure
Value for all stakeholders Built for innovation
How we do itOur strategy | Roche
7
Our strateg y
We focus on finding new medicines and diagnostics that help
patients live longer, better lives and evolve the practice of medicine.
We are guided by our purpose: deep understanding of molecular biology, the seamless
Doing now what patients need next. Our company has a integration of our pharmaceuticals and diagnostics
120-year history of advancing the field of medicine and capabilities, a diversity of approaches to maximise
bringing novel treatments and diagnostics to patients. innovation, and a long-term orientation.
The patient is and will remain at the core of what we do,
the reason we come to work every day. Our delivery is to create value for all our stakeholders:
being a partner of choice; bringing significant medical
benefit for patients, doctors and payers; offering a great
What we do
place to work for employees; having a sustainable
impact on society; and creating top-quartile total
Our focus is on fitting treatments to patients: providing shareholder return for our investors.
the right therapy for the responding group of people at
the right time. With our in-house combination of
How we do it
Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics, we are uniquely
positioned to deliver personalised healthcare. We are
developing our internal capabilities and building strategic In the end, it takes people with integrity, courage and
partnerships ready for the next stage in personalised passion to make a difference for patients. It is our people
healthcare: to combine insights from multiple data who are proud to say: We are Roche. We embrace the
sources with sophisticated analytics to drive more diversity of cultures and people across the Group. We
effective and efficient research and allow for better are inclusive and encourage the richness of ideas and
therapeutic decisions for patients. Access to our products approaches this brings.
is also a critical part of our strategy. Our detailed access
plans are embedded into the business at a local level. Our decision-making principles and processes
emphasise transparent dialogue, clear accountability,
We will continue to concentrate our energies entirely and encourage a high degree of empowerment.
on prescription medicines and in vitro diagnostics,
rather than diversify into other sectors like generics Our structure is built for innovation. Our autonomous
and biosimilars, over-the-counter medicines and research and development centres and alliances with
medical devices. over 200 external partners foster diversity and agility.
Our global geographical scale and reach enables us to
In our pursuit of excellence in science, our distinctiveness bring our diagnostics and medicines quickly to people
rests on four key elements: an exceptionally broad and who need them.8
Mark et
e nv ironme nt
Digital technology is transforming healthcare trials simple for patients and investigating doctors to
The ongoing digital revolution is driving a radical participate in, minimising their inconvenience and
transformation in healthcare, bringing solutions that are the time and effort entailed.
improving research and development, patient involvement
and care, outcomes and cost-efficiency. With demand Digital developments are making this possible by
for medical care continuing to grow, this transformation decentralising clinical studies from the clinic or hospital
is urgently needed for economic sustainability. to the patient’s home. Many doctor-patient interactions
Global healthcare expenditure is projected to reach can take place virtually, through telemedicine-enabled
USD 8.7 trillion by 2020, up from USD 7 trillion in contact, supported by digital diagnostic and tracking
2015, placing further pressure on healthcare systems.1 tools, which facilitate physical examinations at a
distance. For patients, this will increase access to
Key developments in technology—such as the Internet clinical studies and significantly reduce travelling
of Things, machine learning and robotics, and deep and waiting times as well as inconvenience.
data—are enabling enormous progress in healthcare
technology, applying sophisticated analytics to further We are piloting cutting-edge clinical study designs
personalised healthcare. As a result, treatment strategies which feature continual evaluation of an array of
of unprecedented precision are becoming reality. data that can be fed back to refine the study and better
identify potential drug combinations. Overall, these
The proper application of these developments will activities allow us to develop and bring the right safe
help us to find solutions for the complex challenges we medicine to the patient in the most efficient manner.
face and move us towards more patient-centred and
outcomes-based care, whilst making more efficient use 2. Improving treatment outcomes
of resources. These solutions will bring wide-ranging Improvements in diagnostics possibilities, targeted
benefits, from complex individual treatment strategies therapies and combinations of medicines offer a wide
to improved chronic care management. range of treatment choices. But their complexity
require clinical decision support tools.
As an innovation-focused company, we are at the
forefront of driving these developments in diagnostics Deep data is helping to take personalised healthcare
and pharmaceuticals. We see the digital revolution to a new level. Roche is partnering with companies
having a major impact in four key areas: such as Flatiron Health, Foundation Medicine, Inc.
(FMI) and GE Healthcare to help us better leverage data
1. Transforming clinical studies and advanced analytics to improve the development
In 2017, Roche conducted clinical trials with more of medicines and decision-making in patient care.
than 295,000 patients involved. We want to make our First data on a new blood-based assay for measuringMarket environment | Roche
9
Our experts developed an industry-leading platform that uses cutting-edge imaging science to look inside a tumour and document the effect of new drug candidates
in patients. The complex data generated are digitised and interpreted to drive better decisions for drug development.
tumour mutational burden, co-developed with FMI, 3. Enabling patient empowerment
improve our understanding of immune biology Technology empowers patients by giving them more
but will ultimately help match our therapies and control over their health, for example by enabling
combinations to the people most likely to benefit.2 self-management, providing information, connecting
patients, and monitoring and enhancing treatment
Modern diagnostic tools, including point-of-care adherence.
testing, connectivity of data and remote monitoring
of disease have the potential to improve treatment Health apps, sensors and digital biomarkers provide
outcomes through disease management and early a rich source of information, data and tracking, as
detection. For example, our online platform for digital well as improved convenience. For example, Roche has
diabetes management helps healthcare providers to developed an app to continuously measure symptom
make better and faster therapy decisions while also fluctuations in Parkinson’s disease patients, without
improving communication with their patients. Roche them needing to visit the clinic.
also launched the Navify Tumor Board solution, a
clinical workflow and decision support software that In the future, individuals will be better informed
optimises decision-making for cancer patient case about their genetic profile, the diseases they have and
reviews in the clinic, so-called tumour boards, or the availability of appropriate therapies that match
multidisciplinary team meetings. their specific condition.
1 The Economist Intelligence Unit. World Industry Outlook. Healthcare and Pharmaceuticals, June 2016. | 2 European Society for Medical Oncology
Congress, 8–12 September 2017, Madrid, Spain.10
4. Efficiency
Technology is enabling more timely and accurate
diagnosis and treatment and improved success rates.
It is also minimising unnecessary treatment, resulting
in significant efficiency gains as the usage of resources
available is optimised. In addition, Roche is utilising
digital technology—whether to revamp how we conduct
our clinical trials through the use of data or to change
how we register our new products—to become much
more efficient in what we do.
Roche’s efforts in digitisation are part of its continued
commitment to furthering the benefits that its products
and services can bring to patients. These go hand in
hand with the work that is currently ongoing in trying
to better understand the science, interpret data quicker
and use new technologies with the end goal of bringing
innovative treatments to the right patient faster.
Our business model for innovation
To ensure we can continue providing innovative
products and services for patients, we invest about
one-fifth of our sales in research and development
(R&D) activities every year. Thanks to our focus on
science in areas of high unmet need, and with our
expertise in pharmaceuticals and diagnostics under
one roof, we have been successful in introducing six
new medicines in different diseases and indications
The Navify Tumor Board software supports decision-making to optimise therapy of patients and many new diagnostic tests, instruments and
with cancer. services since late 2015. Additionally, we have broad
and exciting pipelines in both our Pharmaceuticals
and Diagnostics Divisions.
Investing today to bring hope for tomorrow
We focus on therapeutic areas where we can make
significant contributions to society. This includes
disorders of the central nervous system such as
Alzheimer’s disease and autism, where we areMarket environment | Roche
11
Roche is developing new medicines
conducting studies that need a high level of investment.
In Diagnostics, we are advancing our vision of the
for diseases that have not seen major
‘Integrated Core Laboratory’ with a broad range of
diagnostic tests and fully automated processes.
progress for decades.
Roche is also innovating in areas of unmet need by
developing new medicines for diseases in which there
has been no major progress for decades, including medicines and generics or biosimilars supports
bladder cancer (Tecentriq), multiple sclerosis (Ocrevus) the financial sustainability of healthcare systems.
and giant cell arteritis (Actemra/RoActemra). Approved
by the FDA in November, Hemlibra offers immense From a total of more than 400 drugs included in the
potential for an improved quality of life for those with WHO Model List of Essential Medicines, 30 are from
haemophilia A. Our point-of-care cobas Liat system Roche.3 These medicines are widely available and
tests provide precise test results rapidly, when time is benefit a large number of people. More than a billion
of the essence for a patient’s survival. people have been treated with the Roche antibiotic
Bactrim since its introduction in 1969, for example.
The value of innovation Many more patients have been treated with its generic
Major advances in science, data and technology are versions. Similarly, the foundational polymerase chain
aiding the development of increasingly sophisticated reaction (PCR) technologies developed by Roche—
treatment options for diseases like cancer, such as an efficient way to copy or ‘amplify’ small segments
immunotherapies and combination therapies. The real of DNA or RNA—still benefit millions of people,
value of innovation is only realised when it actually even though their patents have expired.
reaches and benefits patients in need. This is why Roche
is actively working with payers and governments to Regulators across the globe are implementing
develop flexible pricing solutions that can facilitate more flexible procedures to review and approve
public reimbursement, as well as assistance programmes truly innovative medicines faster. Breakthrough
to help patients access treatment. therapy designations in the US and PRIME in the
EU significantly reduce the lead time for life-saving
Patents protect our intellectual property and allow drugs.4 This also helps Roche recover investments
our product portfolio to have commercial exclusivity faster and enables further investment in additional
over a limited period of time to recover our investments areas, including studies in rare diseases such as
in research and development and benefit from a spinal muscular atrophy or Erdheim-Chester disease.
necessary innovation premium as a business enterprise.
However, when a patent on a medicine expires, the Innovation is how we generate value. By developing
innovation it represents continues to benefit society. products that advance the standard of care for diseases
Biosimilars or generics may become available at lower with significant unmet need we are able to meet our
costs and further increase the number of patients who obligations not only to shareholders but to society as
can be treated. Open competition between originator a whole.
3 Number as of December 2017. | 4 PRIME (PRIority MEdicines) is a scheme launched by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) to enhance
support for the development of medicines that target an unmet medical need.12
D
ear Shareholders,
Despite rapid medical and scientific advances, treatment for each individual patient in the shortest
there are still no cures for common illnesses such as possible time.
Alzheimer’s disease; 400 million people all over the
world have no access to basic healthcare; and infectious The remarkable progress in both divisions is attributable
diseases believed to have been eliminated are now not least to the fact that, at CHF 10.4 billion, we have
proving to be resistant to treatment. Against this once again invested more in research and development
backdrop, we must also measure the success of a than any other healthcare company. Our strength in
business year in terms of the extent to which we find innovation is also reflected in our good financial results,
solutions to urgent medical problems. with sales at CHF 53.3 billion and core operating profit
of CHF 19.0 billion. The 9%* decrease in net income in
During the past year, we have made significant accordance with IFRS is due to extraordinary items
progress in drug development. Roche has received such as amortisation and impairment.
‘breakthrough therapy’ designations for medicines or
new compounds 19 times in recent years, four of them Yet all these efforts are in vain if our products fail to
in 2017. This designation, which offers the prospect reach the people who need them. We have been working
of faster approval, is only awarded by the US health for years to improve access to healthcare throughout
authority, FDA, if initial clinical trial data exhibit the world. It has become abundantly clear that only
promising efficacy in serious diseases. Roche leads dialogue and cooperation with all those involved and
the industry in terms of this indicator of innovative affected will bring lasting improvements. It is also
strength. important to systematically address all the limiting
factors, such as inadequate infrastructure and
Given the rapid pace at which data volumes are education, and a lack of disease awareness. One
growing, digital decision-making tools are becoming significant problem is often the lack of basic health
increasingly important in medical practice. As a insurance. Jointly with partners, we have therefore
consequence, Roche Diagnostics and GE Healthcare extended the introduction of private insurance
recently entered into a long-term strategic partnership policies for cancer treatment from China to other
focussed on developing comprehensive digital Asian countries. At the same time, we are working
platforms—initially for oncology and intensive care with supervisory authorities, governments and the
medicines—to support doctors in identifying the best industry to combat new threats such as antibioticChairman’s shareholder letter | Roche
13
It has become abundantly clear
that only collaboration with all
those involved will bring lasting
improvements concerning access.
resistance with the development of new types of propose a dividend increase to 8.30 Swiss francs per
diagnostic products and medicines. share and non-voting equity security at the Annual
General Meeting. Subject to your approval, this will
Many of these tasks require both patience and be the 31st consecutive dividend increase.
stamina. Sustainability has long been an important
component of our business strategy. We pursue an I offer my thanks to all those who worked together
integrated approach here: not only do we want to with us in 2017 to achieve medical advances and
constantly improve therapeutic standards, we are improve access to medical care. I thank our employees
also working to improve access to our products and for their tireless dedication during the past year. And Chairman’s video:
are taking social responsibility in crucial areas such I offer you, our shareholders, my heartfelt thanks for roche.com/med-
as environmental protection, the supply chain and the trust you have placed in us. cor-2018-02-01.htm
employee retention. We are delighted that our diverse
sustainability efforts were rewarded once again in
2017—for the ninth consecutive year—with the top
ranking in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices.
On the whole, we can look back on a very successful
year. I believe Roche is well positioned to continue
contributing to medical solutions and a more efficient Dr Christoph Franz
healthcare environment through innovation. We will Chairman
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2016).14Board of Directors | Roche
15
Board of Directors
Bernard Poussot (1952) C, E
Dr Christoph Franz (1960)
Chairman, C, D*, E
Dr Severin Schwan (1967) F
Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton (1953) C, E
Julie Brown (1962) B*, E
Dr Claudia Suessmuth Dyckerhoff (1967) A, B, E
Anita Hauser (1969) A, E
Paul Bulcke (1954) B, E
Prof. Sir John Bell (1952) B, E
Dr Andreas Oeri (1949)
Representative of the shareholder group with pooled
voting rights, A*, E
André Hoffmann (1958)
Vice-Chairman, Representative of the shareholder
group with pooled voting rights, A, C*, D, E
Peter R. Voser (1958) C, E
A Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
B Audit Committee
C Remuneration Committee
D Presidium/Nomination Committee
E Non-executive director
F Executive director
* Committee chairperson
Roche Board of Directors on 31 December 201716
D
ear Shareholders,
2017 was a very successful year for Roche—in terms of the FDA—has proven superior to established treatment
the financial results, certainly, but especially in the methods. Furthermore, the latest results of important
development of new medicines and diagnostic products. trials in the pioneering field of cancer immunotherapy
This is great news, but not only when looking back at demonstrate the potential of Tecentriq for the
the past year. It is also a solid basis for us to face the treatment of various types of cancer.
future with confidence. We have laid the groundwork
to drive forward our delivery of personalised healthcare Immunology once again played a significant role in the
solutions and thus actively help shape change in the growth of the Diagnostics Division. We have further
healthcare sector. expanded our fully automated immunodiagnostics
portfolio, bringing us a step closer to the Integrated
We exceeded our growth targets in both divisions. Core Lab, which will help central laboratories to
It is gratifying that 65%* of the growth in the become more efficient and competitive.
Pharmaceuticals Division came from new products—
Ocrevus, Tecentriq and Alecensa—and it shows that Digitisation in healthcare gives us the opportunity to
we are consistently achieving our goal of renewing the make faster progress in the area of personalised
portfolio. Regionally, the US experienced particularly healthcare. The analysis of real-world data—anonymised
strong pharmaceutical sales growth, while in the patient data from visits to doctors, medical records
Diagnostics Division, sales showed an especially sharp and other sources—will give a major boost to
rise in China. innovation in the medium to long term. With our
diagnostic products alone, more than 19 billion tests
I am especially pleased that we were once again able were conducted in 2017. About 137 million patients
to introduce new products in areas with significant were treated with our medicines last year, and more
medical need. The recent approval of Ocrevus, for than 295,000 took part in clinical trials. We want
example, gives patients with multiple sclerosis access to make better use of the underlying wealth of data
to an effective treatment. Hemlibra, our innovative in our cross-divisional research and development
haemophilia A treatment, closes a major gap in the activities. This requires close collaboration with
treatment of this serious blood disorder. It can prevent healthcare providers, health insurers and authorities,
or halt bleeds in adults, young people and children. In which is why we continued to expand such partnerships
recent trials, Hemlibra—given fast-track approval by throughout the world during the past year.CEO’s shareholder letter | Roche
17
The growth of our new products
demonstrates that we are
consistently achieving our goal
of renewing the portfolio.
In the midst of change, one thing is constant: the Sales are expected to grow in the stable to low-single
importance of our employees to the company. In the digit range, at constant exchange rates. Core earnings
past year, they have shown a high degree of flexibility per share are targeted to grow high-single digit, at
and passion to help shape our future. Ninety percent constant exchange rates. Excluding the US tax reform
of employees worldwide participated in our internal impact core earnings per share are targeted to grow
employee survey. Eighty-two percent said they were broadly in line with sales. Roche expects to further
proud to work for Roche. This is both confirmation of, increase its dividend in Swiss francs.
and an incentive to continue with, our efforts to be a CEO’s video:
preferred employer, attracting and retaining the best I would like to thank you, our valued shareholders, roche.com/med-
talent in our industry. for the trust you have placed in our company. cor-2018-02-01.htm
2018 will be a year of transition: as has long been
foreseen, we expect more competition from biosimilars
for our cancer medicines MabThera/Rituxan and
Herceptin, mainly in Europe, initially. At the same
time, however, we are systematically renewing our
portfolio with innovative products. Though the
challenges are multiplying, we believe we are well
positioned to successfully overcome them, thanks to Dr Severin Schwan
our ongoing strength in medical innovation. Chief Executive Officer
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2016).18Corporate Executive Committee | Roche
19
Corporate Executive
Committee
Dr Stephan Feldhaus* (1962)
Head Group Communications
Dr Alan Hippe (1967)
Chief Financial and IT Officer
Osamu Nagayama* (1947)
Chairman and CEO Chugai
Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954)
General Counsel
Roland Diggelmann (1967)
CEO Roche Diagnostics
Cristina A. Wilbur (1967)
Head Group Human Resources
Daniel O’Day (1964)
CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals
Dr Michael D. Varney* (1958)
Head Genentech Research & Early Development (gRED)
Dr Severin Schwan (1967)
CEO Roche Group
Dr Sophie Kornowski-Bonnet* (1963)
Head Roche Partnering
Prof. Dr John C. Reed* (1958)
Head Roche Pharma Research & Early Development (pRED)
* Member of the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
Roche Corporate Executive Committee on 31 December 201720Business performance | Roche
21
Bu sine s s
pe r for mance
Three recently launched medicines contributed
strongly to our growth. Top-selling products show
continued double-digit sales increases.
Material topics covered in this chapter
• Product portfolio strategy
• Growth strategy in emerging and developed markets
Contribution to the UN SDGs22
G
ood results in both divisions
In 2017, Group sales rose 5%* to CHF 53.3 billion. Solutions (+7%) was the main contributor, led by the
Core operating profit grew 3%, reflecting the strong growth of its immunodiagnostics business (+13%).
underlying business performance. Core EPS increased In regional terms, growth was driven by Asia-Pacific
5%. On an IFRS basis net income decreased 9%. The (+15%), with continued strong growth in China (+21%).
IFRS result includes charges for the impairment of Sales increased 2% in Europe, Middle East and Africa
goodwill and intangible assets and the amortisation (EMEA), 10% in Latin America, and were stable in
of intangible assets. North America.
Sales in the Pharmaceuticals Division increased 5% Approvals and line extensions in Pharmaceuticals
to CHF 41.2 billion. The recently launched medicines In 2017, the US FDA approved two new medicines,
Ocrevus, Tecentriq and Alecensa contributed namely Ocrevus for the treatment of relapsing and
CHF 1.4 billion of new sales, which represents 65% of primary progressive forms of multiple sclerosis
the division’s growth. Perjeta also continued its strong and Hemlibra for people with haemophilia A with
sales increase. This growth was partially offset by factor VIII inhibitors.
lower sales of Tarceva and Avastin.
In the course of the year, health authorities approved
In the US, sales advanced 10%, led by Ocrevus, a number of new indications for existing products.
Tecentriq, Xolair and MabThera/Rituxan. In Europe, In December, the US FDA approved Perjeta in
sales declined 2%, mainly due to lower Mabthera/ combination with Herceptin and chemotherapy for
Rituxan sales driven by competition from biosimilars. adjuvant (after surgery) treatment of HER2-positive
In the International region, sales grew 4%, led by the early breast cancer at high risk of recurrence; the
Latin America and Asia-Pacific subregions. In Japan, approval is based on results of the phase III Aphinity
sales increased 3%, with the main growth driver study. US approval was granted for Alecensa in
being Alecensa. anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive non-
small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and Gazyva for
Diagnostics Division sales increased 5% to untreated advanced follicular lymphoma.
CHF 12.1 billion. Centralised and Point of CareBusiness performance | Roche
23
In 2017, our development pipeline made very good progress, as shown by the approvals of our new medicines, line extensions and positive results from clinical studies
in key areas. Highlights include data from studies in cancer immunotherapy, which clearly reflect the potential of Tecentriq for treating different kinds of cancer.
In Europe, key approvals were granted in the course connectivity and automation in laboratories. These
of the year, including Alecensa as a monotherapy new instruments support efforts to expand the core
for the first-line treatment as well as for previously laboratory, and consolidate and integrate a wider range
treated ALK-positive, advanced NSCLC. of platforms and covering other diagnostic disciplines
such as molecular diagnostics, lab coagulation,
In January 2018, Ocrevus was approved in the EU for haematology and point-of-care testing.
the treatment of both the relapsing and the primary
progressive form of multiple sclerosis and CHMP This approach is supported by further expanding
recommended approval of Hemlibra. our existing broad test portfolio with additional new
tests. These include the cobas Liat system with tests
Integrated diagnostic solutions for rapid identification of life-threatening infectious
In the course of the year, five new key instruments diseases, healthcare-associated infections, methicillin-
were launched that allow for further increasing resistant bacteria and viral infections.
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2016).24
S
ales in the Diagnostics Division grew strongly (+5%)
to CHF 12.1 billion.
Centralised and Point of Care Solutions (+7%*) was HIV testing was impacted by lower sales for HCV tests,
the largest contributor to the division’s sales growth. due to a base effect of strong HCV test sales in 2016.
Integrated Serum Work Area solutions, comprising
the immunodiagnostics (+13%) and clinical chemistry Tissue Diagnostics sales increased 11%, driven by
(+3%) segments, were the main growth drivers. the advanced staining and primary staining portfolios,
which grew 11% and 12%, respectively. The companion
Sales in Molecular Diagnostics increased 4%. Sales diagnostics business grew 13%.
in the human papillomavirus (HPV) screening and
the blood screening businesses grew 15% and 1%, Diabetes Care sales decreased 4%, affected by challenging
respectively. In virology, sales were stable. Growth in market conditions, particularly in North America.
Top-selling product portfolios in 2017 (CHF millions)
cobas cobas Ventana cobas Accu-Chek
Immunodiagnostics Clinical chemistry Advanced staining Virology Diabetes Care
3,813 1,733 779 642 1,965
+13% +3% +11% 0% -4%Business performance | Roche
25
0% +2%
North America Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)
+2%
Japan
+10%
+15%
Latin America
Asia-Pacific
The division’s sales growth was again driven by the Asia-Pacific region.
Contributions by regions varied due to different levels of market maturity and
Increased access to healthcare and to diagnostic economic development. In Africa, major healthcare
solutions, demographic shifts, and advances in science access programmes have been implemented by a
and technology have led to a globally increased demand number of local governments in close collaboration
for diagnostics. As the leader in the field of in vitro with international organisations such as WHO,
diagnostics, Roche is well positioned to address these UNAIDS and partners from industry. Roche supports
market dynamics. However, public funding constraints several such initiatives with sustainable commercial
have led to a consolidation of laboratories and hospitals, offers. Overall, Diabetes Care sales declined within this
resulting in continued price pressure for diagnostic region, however, growth was seen in several markets.
providers. The number of people with diabetes
continues to grow, along with awareness about the In Latin America, all business segments contributed
condition and the need to manage it with adequate to growth, with sales expanding in Diabetes Care.
blood glucose monitoring systems.
In North America, sales growth was led by Tissue
The Asia-Pacific region was the major driver of the Diagnostics. Roche continues to gain market share in
division’s growth, with immunochemistry as a key both the laboratory and decentralised coagulation
contributor. China generated almost half of the absolute monitoring segments, and recently launched products
sales growth. Most markets within the region continued won important new business. This development was
to see volume growth and expanded access to testing. offset by lower sales in the Diabetes Care business,
Diabetes Care sales were also up. which fell due to continued price pressure.
The sales increase in the EMEA region was driven by Sales growth in Japan was driven by Centralised and
the core laboratory business. Contributions by markets Point of Care Solutions. Diabetes Care sales declined.
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2016).26
Diagnostics
Medical value to improve health
Empowering laboratory leadership In May, the cobas e 801 module received FDA
We are developing new and integrated diagnostic approval. This expands the system’s success in markets
solutions designed to address the challenges of today where it has already been launched and strengthens
and anticipate the needs of tomorrow. The key is our ICL solutions. The cobas e 801 module offers high
to expand the core laboratory, consolidating and value through its flexibility and is designed for high
integrating a wider range of platforms covering other throughput and continuous operation. At the same
diagnostic disciplines such as molecular diagnostics, time it reduces waste.
lab coagulation, haematology and point-of-care
testing. The Integrated Core Lab (ICL) vastly expands Also in May, we launched our Avenio ctDNA analysis
the efficiency, scope and quality of diagnostic kits, a portfolio of three next-generation sequencing
capabilities in the laboratory. (NGS) liquid biopsy kits for oncology research. The kits
detect all four mutation classes with high sensitivity.
In January 2017, the cobas m 511, our new dedicated With these kits, researchers can profile the genomic
haematology testing solution, became available in complexities of different cancer stages and tumour
countries accepting the CE mark.* This marked our types, obtaining results in five days. Our Avenio
entry into the haematology diagnostics market. The Millisect System, a tissue dissection instrument
cobas m 511 provides greater accuracy and consistency utilising an automated, digitally-assisted process to
of results by identifying, counting, isolating and reliably and efficiently isolate clinically relevant cells
categorising abnormal cells within patient samples. for testing, became commercially available in July.
This automation and digitisation reduces the need for
resource-intensive manual microscope reviews and In our Diabetes Care business, we aim to enable better
allows for quicker delivery of results, which ultimately management of diabetes, a major healthcare burden.1
aids in patient diagnosis. Our focus is on integrated diabetes management and
increased ‘time in range’ for people with diabetes. The
acquisition of mySugr GmbH, Austria, in June is key
The Roche Integrated Core Lab vastly
to executing our Diabetes Care strategy.
expands the efficiency and quality of our
The acquisition of Viewics, Inc., US, in November
allows Roche to expand its leading position in the
customers’ diagnostic capabilities.
ICL with business analytics capabilities, enablingBusiness performance | Roche
27
laboratories to make faster data-driven informed
decisions on their operations and processes.
In December, we entered into a strategic, long-term
partnership with GE Healthcare to jointly develop and
co-market digital clinical decision support solutions.
The partnership will initially focus on products that
accelerate and improve personalised treatment decisions
for patients with cancer and those in critical care. With
GE Healthcare, we aim to develop an industry-first
digital platform that allows for the seamless integration
and analysis of patient records, real-time data, medical Roche offers a broad range of tests in women’s health, including areas such as fertility,
best practice and the latest research outcomes. bone health and cancer.
Women’s health
Improving access to healthcare means that women In April, we received 510(k) clearance from the FDA
all over the world can now benefit from enhanced for the CINtec Histology test. This test is the only
disease prevention, improved screening approaches clinically validated p16 biomarker test that helps
and better diagnostic tests. At Roche, we currently pathologists determine which women should receive
offer a comprehensive range of tests covering fertility treatment for cervical pre-cancer. This test is part
and pregnancy, bone health and breast cancer, ovarian of our cervical cancer portfolio, which includes the
cancer and cervical cancer. In February, we launched cobas HPV test and the CINtec Plus Cytology test
the Elecsys AMH Plus immunoassay, the first (not available as an IVD test in the US). The CINtec
CE-marked companion test for fertility therapy. Histology test is performed on the BenchMark IHC/
ISH series of instruments. It is used to confirm the
In March, we launched the IVD cobas HPV test for presence or absence of high-grade cervical disease
cervical cancer screening on the cobas 6800/8800 in women who have had a tissue biopsy. Using the
systems in countries accepting the CE mark. This p16 biomarker enables a more conclusive diagnosis,
HPV DNA assay gives laboratories the ability to providing a distinctive visual confirmation of pre-
run HPV DNA testing simultaneously with other cancerous cervical lesions that may be missed by
previously released cobas infectious disease assays. hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) interpretation alone.
* CE mark: certification mark that indicates conformity within EU. | 1 www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs312/en/28
Infectious disease tests
Expanding our broad portfolio
Infectious diseases represent a serious and growing infection and can be life threatening. Between 20%
global threat. As the WHO announced, the world is and 60% of people with a solid organ transplant develop
running out of effective antibiotics to fight increasingly a symptomatic CMV infection. The cobas CMV test is
resistant bacteria.2 Now more than ever, highly efficient standardised to the first WHO International Standard
and automated tests provide accurate diagnostics that for improving harmonisation in CMV testing results
are playing a critical role in preventing the overuse of across healthcare institutions. In addition to the CMV
antibiotics and in helping health systems control the assay, the cobas 4800 system has a comprehensive test
spread of infectious diseases. menu, including viral load assays for HIV-1, HCV,
HCV genotyping and HBV.
In April, we launched the cobas Liat system with
four infectious disease assays into CE markets. The In July, the cobas Liat system menu was expanded
cobas Liat system now offers the first real-time PCR with the CE launch of the cobas MRSA/SA test for
nucleic acid test to detect Clostridium difficile in just the qualitative detection and differentiation of
20 minutes. Timely and accurate diagnosis of this methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)
infection is vital because it is one of the major causes of and Staphylococcus aureus (SA) at the point of care.
healthcare-associated infections (HAI). It can quickly As many as 53 million people carry MRSA, one of
become life threatening, especially to high-risk patients the most commonly identified antibiotic-resistant
such as the elderly, those with compromised immune pathogens. In Europe, more than 150,000 patients
systems or those undergoing antibiotic treatment. The develop MRSA infections each year, resulting in more
cobas Liat assay represents a breakthrough for patients than 1 million excess days of hospitalisation and
since traditional diagnostic methods may take several EUR 380 million of extra in-hospital costs.3 Designed
hours for results to be delivered to clinicians. The to support rapid screening and surveillance of MRSA
cobas Liat Cdiff assay, part of the HAI portfolio, and SA, the cobas Liat system is ideal for use in
expands the existing diagnostic menu available on emergency settings and intensive care units.
the cobas Liat system, which includes the respiratory Conventional testing methods may take more than
assays cobas Strep A and Influenza A/B & RSV. 24 hours to turn around culture results. With
the cobas Liat system, testing takes just 30 minutes
In June, we received approval for cytomegalovirus and can be used before admission or surgery to reduce
(CMV)viral load testing on the cobas 4800 system the risk of transmission within the hospital. Also in
in countries accepting the CE mark. For transplant July, we launched the first CE-marked HIV-1/HIV-2
patients, CMV is the most common serious viral qualitative tests for use on the fully automatedBusiness performance | Roche
29
The cobas Plasma Separation Card, part of our Global Access Programme, helps expand access to diagnostics in countries hardest hit by HIV and underscores our
commitment to providing life-saving diagnostics in the fight against HIV and AIDS. It allows testing even in areas where transportation to the lab may take weeks.
cobas 6800/8800 systems, allowing healthcare is the first commercially available test for detection
professionals to optimise treatment options. of Zika virus RNA in samples of human plasma and
is intended for use in screening blood donations.
In September, we announced plans to immediately The newly approved cobas Zika test can now be used
initiate screening of blood samples with the cobas alongside other routine tests for the screening of
babesia test under an Investigational New Drug blood and plasma donations in the US.
Application protocol. Performed on the cobas 6800/8800
systems, the test screens for the direct detection of In December, Roche launched the cobas Plasma
babesia DNA and RNA in whole blood specimens from Separation Card, an innovative technology with easy
individual blood donors. Most commonly transmitted sample collection while utilising the gold standard
to humans through the bite of an infected tick, the plasma sample type. With a small amount of blood
babesia parasite can also be transmitted through blood collected on specially designed cards, blood collection
transfusions or from mother to foetus. It infects and and sample transportation is simplified in resource-
destroys red blood cells, potentially leading to anaemia limited settings. This is the first and only plasma
and related life-threatening complications in people separation card remaining stable under extreme heat
with compromised immune systems. and humidity while providing results that correlate
to the plasma viral load standard of care and meeting
In October, the FDA approved the cobas Zika test for the WHO decision requirements.
use on cobas 6800/8800 systems. The cobas Zika test
2 www.who.int/mediacentre/news/releases/2017/running-out-antibiotics/en/ | 3 Kock R, et al. Euro Surveill., 2014;19(29).30Business performance | Roche
31
Alan Staple, Clinton Health Access Initiative, US
“Our partnership helped change the world’s
attitude towards viral load testing.”
Before joining the Clinton Health Access Initiative HIV status will receive treatment; and 90% of all
(CHAI) nine years ago, I was working as an executive people on treatment will be virally suppressed.
in the contract research industry. My focus was to
reduce the time to market for new drugs through Prior to the launch of this programme, just a
better management of the trials that demonstrate quarter of patients in lower-income countries
drug safety and efficacy. I felt truly motivated by had access to viral load testing.
the number of lives that could be saved by cutting
months or even years off the development process. When we started this project, viral load testing
was considered too expensive and complicated.
I am now Head of the Global Markets Team at There was no infrastructure in place to transport
CHAI, and we are addressing a similar challenge: and process samples. However, these assumptions
How do we work within the global regulatory, were proven to be wrong and we now have both
production and financial systems to get high-quality the infrastructure and cutting-edge technologies.
medicines and diagnostics to patients in lower-income
countries at affordable and sustainable prices? With Our partnership with Roche has helped change
our global footprint, CHAI works with partners like the world’s attitude towards viral load testing
Roche, companies that have a worldwide reach, and in the developing world. On the back of this
this can have a transformative impact on global collaboration, the WHO, as well as funders,
public health problems. changed their recom mendation. Previously,
they weren’t recommending viral load testing
A successful long-term collaboration for every patient, now they do.
Our collaboration with Roche in the area of HIV
goes back many years. Together, we pioneered Early The 90-90-90 goal includes viral load testing:
Infant Diagnosis, which is now a routine programme. HIV diagnostics evolved from something that
Currently some 800,000 infants are being tested every wasn’t even mentioned five years ago to a key
year. In 2014, we set up the Global Access Programme, measure of the programme’s success. As a result,
which contributes to the 90-90-90 UNAIDS goal. In the standard of viral load testing that is in place
other words, by 2020, 90% of all people living with in countries like Switzerland is now the same in
HIV will know their status; 90% of all people with lower-income countries as well.32
S
ales in the Pharmaceuticals Division increased 5% to
CHF 41.2 billion, largely driven by growth of recently
launched medicines.
Herceptin, Perjeta and Kadcyla (combined +7%*). US, driven by immunology, and in the International
For HER2-positive breast cancer and HER2-positive region. Sales in Europe (-11%) were affected by the
metastatic gastric cancer (Herceptin only). Herceptin market entry of biosimilars.
sales were up 3%, led by growth in the US and Brazil.
Perjeta (+19%) sales grew in all regions following Avastin (-2%). For advanced colorectal, breast, lung,
increased demand in the neoadjuvant and metastatic kidney, cervical and ovarian cancer, and relapsed
settings. Sales of Kadcyla increased 10%. glioblastoma (a type of brain tumour). In the US, sales
declined 2%, largely due to increasing use of cancer
MabThera/Rituxan (+1%). For forms of blood cancer, immunotherapy medicines in lung cancer. Sales
rheumatoid arthritis and certain types of vasculitis. continued to grow in the International region (+5%).
Sales continued to rise; increases were recorded in the
Key growth-driving products in 2017 (CHF millions)
MabThera/Rituxan Herceptin Perjeta Actemra/RoActemra Xolair
Oncology and immunology Oncology Oncology Immunology Immunology
7,388 7,014 2,196 1,926 1,742
+1% +3% +19% +14% +16%Business performance | Roche
33
Sales in Europe (-5%) were affected by the removal Gazyva/Gazyvaro (+41%). For chronic lymphocytic
of reimbursement for breast cancer in France. leukaemia (CLL), rituximab-refractory follicular
lymphoma and previously untreated advanced
Actemra/RoActemra (+14%). For rheumatoid follicular lymphoma. Sales expanded in all regions
arthritis, forms of juvenile idiopathic arthritis and where this product has been launched.
giant cell arteritis. Sales growth was reported in
all regions, supported by steady growth in demand Recently launched medicines
for the subcutaneous formulation. Ocrevus (CHF 869 million), approved in more than
50 countries, experienced continued strong demand
Xolair (+16%, US only). For chronic idiopathic in both indications. Tecentriq (CHF 487 million) is
urticaria and allergic asthma. Growth driven by approved in 55 countries. Alecensa (CHF 362 million),
demand in both indications. approved in 50 countries, showed very good uptake in
the US and continued strong sales growth in Japan.
Activase/TNKase (+10%). Thrombolytic, or clot-busting In November, Hemlibra (CHF 3 million) was launched
agent for acute ischaemic stroke. Sales increase was in the US and has had promising uptake.
driven by broader use in hospitals and the higher
number of treated patients.
Key growth-driving products in 2017 (CHF millions)
Activase/TNKase Kadcyla Ocrevus Tecentriq Alecensa
Cardiovascular Oncology Immunology Oncology Oncology
1,219 914 869 487 362
+10% +10% –** +209% +101%
* All growth rates in this report are at constant exchange rates (CER; average 2016). | ** not applicable34
Regional performance
Growth driven by the US, Brazil and China
US medicines. Demand for Foundation Medicine
The US market continues to be an area of significant services is increasing as we make the service more
opportunity, despite increasing complexity driven broadly available across Europe and seek to take
by rising competitive pressure, a dynamic regulatory personalised cancer care to the next level. The region
environment and a shift towards value-based healthcare (-2%) contributed 22% to the overall Pharmaceuticals
models. In 2017, the overall performance in this market business as sales of Perjeta and Actemra/RoActemra
was characterised by new product launches including remained robust. The region’s performance was
Ocrevus and Hemlibra. In 2017, we received four impacted by declining sales of MabThera/Rituxan
breakthrough therapy designations (BTDs), which and Avastin due to biosimilar competition and
means we have been awarded a total of 19 BTDs since reimbursement reduction, respectively.
the FDA established the programme in 2012. In
addition, the FDA also granted seven priority reviews. Japan
Fuelled by strong sales of both new and existing Sales grew 3%. Alecensa sales increased 41%. Sales
medicines, the US recorded 10% growth and now of Tamiflu were up 25% and of Actemra/RoActemra
accounts for 50% of the total Pharmaceuticals business. +10%. The growth was partially offset by lower sales
Sales growth was largely driven by Ocrevus, Tecentriq, of various established products. Chugai contributed
Xolair and MabThera/Rituxan. 9% to the overall Pharmaceuticals business.
Europe International region
We are working with a number of stakeholders at In recent years Latin America has seen stable
a European and national level to develop solutions growth. This has allowed governments to spend
that will ensure sustainable healthcare systems as well more on healthcare. However, significant challenges
as more timely and equitable access to innovative remain, as the landscape is marked by barriers that
medicines. Together with payers, we are developing impede access to healthcare, including low levels of
and implementing more flexible pricing solutions disease and symptoms awareness, late diagnosis, weak
aimed at supporting faster access to innovative infrastructure, inefficient and insufficient funding and
delays in the adoption of innovative medicines. Each
country in Latin America faces unique challenges, and
Fuelled by strong sales, the US is the
Roche’s commitment is as varied as the region itself.
Therefore, we partner with various stakeholders to
growth driver of the division.
develop tailored solutions to help increase access toBusiness performance | Roche
35
-2% -4%
Europe Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa (EEMEA)
+3%
+10%
Japan
US
+11% +3%
Latin America Asia-Pacific
EEMEA, Latin America, Asia-Pacific and Canada form the ‘International’ region.
medicines and diagnostic tests. Latin America achieved strong results. The region’s priorities include
contributed 5% to the overall Pharmaceuticals improving access, competing against biosimilars and
business. Sales growth was driven by Brazil and non-comparable biologics, and preparing for launches
Argentina. of our most innovative medicines. We achieved
considerable success in accelerating registration
In the Asia-Pacific region, sales growth was driven timelines, with our medicines such as Tecentriq and
by established products, strategic products and new Ocrevus becoming available to patients in several
launches. In China, Herceptin, MabThera/Rituxan, countries, even before EMA approval. At the same
Avastin and Tarceva were listed on the National time, some markets experienced order shifts, and
Reimbursement Drug List (NRDL) in 2017. This is markets like Russia and Iran lost government tenders
a significant step towards making these medicines of biologics, which negatively impacted regional
available to the entire population of 1.4 billion people performance. The steady entry of our new medicines is
in the country. Several new medicines were launched mitigating the losses of products which face biosimilar
in the region, including Ocrevus and Tecentriq. competition. Strategic products contribute to growth,
The Asia-Pacific region contributed 8% to the overall with Perjeta and Kadcyla among the top-selling
Pharmaceuticals business and growth was primarily medicines in the region. The EEMEA markets
driven by China, Taiwan, Vietnam and Australia. contributed 4% to the Pharmaceuticals business.
Even with challenges in key markets impacting overall
performance, many countries in the EEMEA region36
Additional options for patients
New products drive growth
The recently launched medicines Ocrevus, Tecentriq Alecensa, first launched in Japan in 2014, has been
and Alecensa had a very good start following their approved for the treatment of a type of lung cancer.
arrival in multiple markets. Ocrevus, for the treatment Sales total CHF 362 million.
of relapsing and primary progressive forms of multiple
sclerosis (RMS and PPMS), met an extremely positive Combined, these new medicines contributed
response on receiving approval in the US in March. CHF 1.4 billion in new sales. This represents 65% of
Prescriptions have continued to increase throughout the Pharmaceuticals Division’s growth, driving overall
the year, leading to sales of CHF 869 million in 2017. growth while offsetting decreasing sales of products
By the end of 2017 over 30,000 people have been that are being phased out or affected by competition.
treated with Ocrevus globally.
Continued strong sales increases
Tecentriq, which was first approved in 2016 for the Several of our top-selling products show
treatment of advanced bladder cancer in the US, in continued double-digit sales growth. For example,
the meantime Tecentriq has also been approved for Perjeta, representing a major advance for the
advanced lung cancer. This important new cancer treatment of patients with breast cancer, generated
immunotherapy treatment option has contributed total sales of CHF 2.2 billion (+19%) and contributed
CHF 487 million in sales. Roche is conducting a large CHF 350 million of new sales in 2017. First launched
number of studies of Tecentriq in combination with in 2012, its usage is broadening as study results
medicines from Roche’s marketed and investigational confirm its medical benefits in additional indications.
portfolios as well as those with our external partners In late 2017, the FDA approved Perjeta, in combination
in an effort to improve treatment outcomes. Results with Herceptin and chemotherapy for adjuvant (after
from a number of clinical studies to date demonstrate surgery) treatment of HER2-positive early breast
its significant medical benefit. cancer at high risk of recurrence. This approval is
based on results of the phase III Aphinity study.
Actemra/RoActemra sales increased 14%, totalling
CHF 1.9 billion. Xolair, which is sold by Genentech
Ocrevus, Tecentriq and Alecensa
in the US only, saw sales advance by 16% to
CHF 1.7 billion. Activase/TNKase sales were up
contributed 65% of the division’s growth.
10% to CHF 1.2 billion.Business performance | Roche
37
New medicines for unmet needs Three of these innovative medicines—Actemra/RoActemra,
The approval of Tecentriq for the treatment of bladder Alecensa and Hemlibra—originate from the research
cancer represents a major advance for people affected laboratories of Chugai, Japan, which has been a member
by a potentially life-threatening disease. There had of the Roche Group since 2002. They were brought to
been no major advances in the treatment of this type market through collaborations with experts across the
of cancer for the last 30 years. entire Roche Group and represent major contributions
to patients, physicians and society as a whole.
Ocrevus is a highly effective treatment option for
people with RMS and PPMS offering a favourable
benefit-risk profile demonstrated in three phase III Multiple sclerosis forced former Taekwondo World Champion Amr Khairy into a wheelchair.
studies. Despite available therapies, some people with
relapsing forms of MS continue to experience disease
activity and disability progression/worsening of
disability. People with PPMS, who had no approved
treatment previously, experience a faster accumulation
of disability. Ocrevus, given every six months, has the
potential to transform the therapy of both forms of MS.
The approval of Actemra/RoActemra in giant cell
arteritis added to the list of major break through
therapies in diseases with a high unmet need. Actemra/
RoActemra is the first new treatment option for this
debilitating disease in more than 50 years.
Hemlibra received FDA approval in November and
contributes to Roche’s strong history of innovation that
transforms medical practice. Hemlibra is a bispecific
monoclonal antibody designed to restore the blood
clotting process in people with haemophilia A with
factor VIII inhibitors. It is administered by an injection
of a ready-to-use solution under the skin once weekly.
The clinical development programme looks at its
potential to help overcome current challenges such as
the short-lasting effects of existing treatments, the
development of factor VIII inhibitors and the need
for frequent infusions.38Business performance | Roche
39
Dr Amr Khairy, former Taekwondo World Champion, Egypt
“Multiple sclerosis patients truly do
suffer a lot.”
I was initially interested in sports like tennis therapy that would be beneficial to me. I used
and was really good at it. I even took part in the to travel around the globe to participate in
national tennis championships. Then it was squash Taekwondo tournaments and now I was doing the
and football before I finally took up Taekwondo same in search of treatment. When I had an attack,
seriously. At the same time, I was continuing my I couldn’t move or talk. I used to be paralysed;
studies and was accepted at the Faculty of Medicine I couldn’t even swat a fly.
in Cairo. My father, a surgeon, wanted to reward
me with a trip to America. Instead, I asked him to I finally underwent experimental stem cell
send me to Korea to improve my Taekwondo skills. treatment in China, in 2002. As a trained physician,
My first Olympics were in Seoul in 1988 and then I I understood the risks, but I decided to proceed
went to Barcelona in 1992. In between, I won gold at with the treatment. This therapy left me confined to
various world championships, until I was diagnosed a wheelchair, and yet I have had almost no attacks
with multiple sclerosis. of the kind that used to knock me out almost every
few days. For me, the potential benefits from seeking a
I had my first attack in 1999, when I was 32 years risky treatment to reverse the long-term effects of my
old, and was knocked out cold. I couldn’t move multiple sclerosis far outweighed the daily challenges
my hands and legs. I was overwhelmed by fatigue, of the disease. So I went to China not to cure my
which surprised me as I was a fit sportsman. I visited multiple sclerosis, but to relieve the symptoms.
countless doctors in Egypt, who directed me to seek
treatment in the US, where I was diagnosed with This also highlighted to me the real need for a safe
multiple sclerosis at a reputed hospital. I started and effective treatment. I am happy that there is
treatment, taking five shots of cortisone after each now a Roche medicine that has been approved for
attack, but there was no long-term benefit. Dozens use in the US and other parts of the world.
of attacks later, I was left with continuous seizures
and numbness throughout my body. Hopefully, it will come to Egypt soon. Until now
there has been nothing. A treatment such as this
Looking around for a therapy involves much research and funding, but I pray to
That was when, in the absence of any other treatment God that it comes through soon as multiple sclerosis
option, I decided to look around the world for a patients truly do suffer a lot.40Science and innovation | Roche
41
Sc ie nce and
innovation
Translating a brilliant idea into a medicine constitutes
a complex ‘value chain’ of diverse activities. This
chapter looks at some of the steps of this journey.
Material topics covered in this chapter
• Product portfolio strategy
• R&D pipeline strategy and personalised healthcare
Contribution to the UN SDGs42
A
deep understanding of the biology of a disease is only the
first step on the long road towards creating a safe and
effective medicine.
Translating a molecule into a medicine that really In the following pages, we will take a look at a few
matters for patients calls for the combined creativity examples from six major phases or steps in this R&D
and unrelenting perseverance of thousands of people ‘value chain’:
with specialised knowledge in a broad range of areas—
from early discovery to late-stage development, from • identifying medical need and initiating appropriate
manufacturing to regulatory, from distribution to sales. action;
Drug research and development (R&D) must tackle a • understanding the underlying biology triggering
multitude of variables that all have to be optimised in a disease;
tandem. Experts across the Roche Group do not shy away • creating a lead compound with all the right qualities;
from the complexity of this task in their search for a • cultivating smart partnerships across academia,
medicine that truly makes a difference in patients’ lives. physicians, patients and industry;
• innovating and accelerating clinical trials;
Beyond the countless challenges that need to be mastered • developing diagnostic tests and health apps that
by scientists in their labs, translating a molecule into provide deeper insights into a patient’s condition, so
a medicine demands a high degree of cross-functional that doctors can make the best decisions for patients.
teamwork, not only within the company but often
with external partners as well. Blazing new trails in
the medical sciences means pushing the boundaries
of our knowledge and navigating unfamiliar terrain
where no standard textbooks exist to provide guidance. Identifying medical need
Setbacks and failures are part of this process and all The discovery of antibiotics, starting with penicillin in
the learnings derived from these disappointments 1928, is rightly considered one of the greatest medical
will ultimately propel science ahead, resulting in achievements of the 20th century. Yet, for all their
breakthrough medicines. ‘miraculous’ qualities, these medicines are increasingly
losing their lustre as rapidly mutating pathogens are
Roche investigates diseases in such diverse areas as acquiring resistance to widely used antibiotics. The
oncology, neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative challenge of the multi-drug-resistant ‘superbug’ is being
conditions, ophthalmology, immunology, inflammation addressed by the WHO and is conjured up at regular
and infectious diseases. intervals in public debate. According to estimates,Science and innovation | Roche
43
2
1. Medical need 2. Understanding biology
4. Smart partnerships 3. Creating lead compound
5. Innovating clinical trials 6. Diagnostic tests and health apps
This discovery-to-delivery ‘value chain’ can deliver ‘value’ only if all the links in the chain work to perfection. This chapter takes a look at a selection of interesting
molecules and innovative technologies from key phases in this approach with more than 20 major steps.44
10 million people are projected to die from untreatable Starting in 2017, in line with these commitments,
bacterial infections by 2050.1 Weakened, hospitalised Roche began extensive efforts to develop new antibiotics
patients suffering from underlying diseases are often and launched several diagnostic tests for our cobas
more prone to healthcare- associated infections (HAI). Liat system to rapidly identify MRSA and other HAI-
causing bacteria (see page 28).
The spread of multi-drug-resistant strains of bacteria
such as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus Re-entering the antibiotic space
(MRSA), carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae or Roche has significantly stepped up its efforts in this
hard-to-eradicate, pneumonia-causing Streptococci space in the last few years, reviving its strong legacy
has been recognised by the WHO and other health in antibiotic research which had culminated in the
authorities as a worldwide crisis. It is a public health launches of Bactrim in 1969, and Rocephin in 1982. The
emergency demanding the combined efforts of multiple alliances with BARDA and the Industry Declaration
players such as the industry, hospitals, universities, on AMR support our internal R&D activities.
governments, physicians and patients if the problem is
to be tackled successfully. Addressing this unmet need In addition to several promising pre-clinical
by creating new medicines that are able to cure severe compounds, Roche has two antibacterials in early
multi-drug-resistant infections would represent a clinical development: nacubactam for severe, hard-to-
valuable contribution to society. treat, Gram-negative Enterobacteriaceae infections
and an antibody-antibiotic conjugate (AAC) for the
In an unprecedented effort, Roche—along with over treatment of MRSA. The AAC uses a breakthrough
100 companies and 14 industry associations—signed technology previously used in the oncology setting,
the Industry Declaration on Antimicrobial Resistance where the antibody tags a specific bacterium and
(AMR) at the World Economic Forum in Davos in delivers the antibiotic right into the infected cell
2016. This was followed by the adoption of an action compartments, where it becomes activated to attack
plan by a number of pharmaceutical companies, the bacteria.
including Roche, later that year.
Nacubactam’s dual mechanism of action
In 2016, Roche also announced it was entering into Roche in-licensed its next-generation beta-lactamase
a multi-year strategic alliance with BARDA, the inhibitor, nacubactam, in 2015 from Meiji Seika
Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Pharma and Fedora Pharmaceuticals. It is a potent
Authority of the US Department of Health and Human inhibitor of bacterial beta-lactamase enzymes and
Services. BARDA’s Broad Spectrum Antimicrobials makes them ineffective, but is also an antibiotic
Programme aims to engage industry partners in an in its own right, inhibiting bacterial cell wall synthesis.
effort to jointly combat the rise of antibiotic resistance The development plan for nacubactam foresees
through the development of new medicines and administering it in hard-to-treat Gram-negative
diagnostic tests. Enterobacteriaceae infections which have recently
spread in intensive care units across Europe and the
US. The FDA has given this molecule fast-trackScience and innovation | Roche
45
designation, endorsing accelerated development
plans, thus making the medicine available for
physicians and patients much earlier. In the summer
of 2017, the first patients were recruited for Roche’s
phase I study in patients with complicated urinary
tract infections. The accelerated development plans
will mean that the programme can then move on to
the pivotal or registration trial directly.
Understanding the biology of disease
The human body can be likened to a ‘machine’ of
mind-boggling complexity. More often than not, Currently available antibiotics are increasingly losing their effect as rapidly mutating pathogens
it works miraculously well. When things go awry, are acquiring resistance. Increasingly, bacterial infections become life-threatening diseases.
causing a disease, it is the research scientists who
are called upon to understand, target and repair the
underlying malfunction. Is this ‘error’ the result of a
single missing gene in a specific cell? Or is the immune include standard research technologies but also
system in overdrive? More often than not, it could be innovative imaging methods, sequencing of genes, as
a combination of diverse factors that have gone amiss. well as new ways of collecting and analysing deep data
(also referred to as big data). When a suitable target
Identifying the precise biological origin of a disease, for therapeutic intervention has been identified, the
and the potential disease-modifying targets for hunt for and design of the right molecule starts. With
intervention, is the first step in the modern discovery the help of automated high-throughput screening and
of a medicine at Roche. This approach has proven state-of-the-art computer-aided molecular modelling,
valuable in oncology, neuroscience, ophthalmology thousands of chemical molecules can be created and
and rare diseases and albeit quite recent is now tested in a very short time. Target identification also
consistently used in Roche’s immunology research as represents the start of activities for the development
well. Traditional treatment approaches for immune- of antibodies; however, very different methods and
mediated diseases focused on suppressing the whole procedures are applied in this case. The lead compounds
immune system. Roche in contrast aims at finding finally chosen then have to undergo iterative,
molecules which fine-tune the system and restore multidimensional optimisation to achieve the best
the immune balance. balance between dose, exposure, side effects and
efficacy. The ultimate goal is to find a compound with
Target identification is grounded in a number of the best possible active structure that fits the intended
different approaches and technologies. These can target perfectly, is well tolerated and highly effective.
1 www.un.org/press/en/2016/ga11825.doc.htm46
Molecule optimisation in SMA medicine would remain in the body long enough
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a neuromuscular to achieve its medical purpose. The main challenge,
disease caused by a missing or mutated single gene however, was that most human genes are alternatively
called survival motor neuron 1 (SMN1) which encodes spliced and depend on correct splicing for their
the SMN protein. Without this protein, the nerve cells specific functions. The task was to investigate about
in the spinal cord cannot survive, resulting in muscle 60,000 potential other targets to differentiate them and
weakness and atrophy. SMA is one of the most frequent spare any other critical gene. The results of these efforts
monogenetic rare diseases and the leading cause of were published in the journals Science and Nature
infant mortality. Communications.2, 3 The molecule RG7916 received
fast-track designation from the FDA in April 2017
In healthy people, the SMN1 gene is very efficient at and is the first small molecule RNA splicing modifier
making sufficient amounts of full-length protein leading to be tested for efficacy in a phase III clinical trial.
to normal motor neuron function. In patients affected
by SMA, this gene is missing, so the critically important
SMN protein is absent as well. But evolution has created
a ‘backup’ gene or rescue gene called SMN2 that is very
similar to the SMN1 gene. In this gene, the RNA splicing Creating a lead compound with the right qualities
machinery acts differently and most of the SMN2 gene New technologies enable scientists to better understand
is translated into a truncated and unstable protein. The the root cause of diseases, especially in cancer. Increased
result is that only about 10 to 20% of the amount of granular insights into the vast and varied landscape of
SMN protein that humans need is produced. causative disease factors in cancer have brought the
creation of potentially game-changing new therapies a
Roche took on the challenge and this research project big step closer to realisation. A striking example of such
is also the most advanced one in its rare diseases a novel treatment modality is a new class of personalised
portfolio. For the first time ever, an oral SMN2 splicing cancer vaccines (PCV) which are specifically tailored
modifier to treat SMA is now moving forward to to the tumours of individual patients, thus taking
hopefully help children with this devastating disease. personalised healthcare to the next level. A German
A deep understanding of disease biology was a major biotech company, BioNTech, developed a novel mRNA
prerequisite in the SMN2 alternative splicing programme. vaccine approach, and Genentech, a member of the Roche
It started back in 2006 when a patient organisation, the Group, signed a strategic collaboration with BioNTech
SMA Foundation, initiated a discovery programme with in September 2016 to co-develop this platform.
the company PTC Therapeutics. In November 2011,
Roche gained an exclusive worldwide licence to the Attempts at developing therapeutic cancer vaccines
discovery programme. Over the course of four years, targeting self-antigens on tumours have been notoriously
the molecule underwent several optimisation steps unsuccessful in the past as most cancer cells are
for safety and efficacy. Scientists greatly improved the regarded as ‘self’ by the immune system. However,
molecule’s ability to access difficult areas in the body scientists have identified a different type of tumour
such as the brain. They also ensured that the potential antigen, called neoantigens, which are encoded byScience and innovation | Roche
47
For the first time ever, an oral medicine
acquired mutations. When neoantigens are presented
to the immune system, they are seen as ‘non-self’ or
is moving forward to hopefully help
foreign. Since tumour neoantigens are unique for each
patient, a molecular fingerprint for each tumour can
children with SMA.
be identified by sequencing the tumour’s genome. The
exact fingerprint derived from this analysis can then
be used to develop a vaccine. Our PCV platform, which
we are developing with BioNTech, is designed to deliver Unrivalled expertise in protein engineering
mRNA that can code up to 20 unique neoantigens MabThera/Rituxan was launched in 1997 by
using a lipoplex formulation that allows for intravenous Genentech. At that time, it was the company’s first
administration. When injected, mRNA is delivered to biotechnologically produced monoclonal antibody
immune-presenting cells that can process and present giving true hope for people with cancer. Two decades
neoantigens to the immune system. T cells can then later, the Roche Group has a portfolio of highly
recognise—and be taught to target and destroy— differentiated biologics that can recognise more than
tumours that express the tumour-specific neoantigens. one antigen, leverage the body’s own immune system
to fight disease or act as transporting proteins to
The emergence of personalised vaccines, such as deliver, for instance, a toxic payload directly into
those from BioNTech, has been made possible thanks specific target cells.
to the combination of state-of-the-art genomic
sequencing and modern bioinformatics, a growing Gazyva/Gazyvaro, introduced in 2013, leverages a new
understanding of cancer biology and the emergence technology: By designing and controlling the type of
of the cancer immuno therapy field. Enthusiasm for sugar molecules in a specific region of this antibody,
neoantigen-based vaccines has also been spurred by the affinity of the antibody for immune effector cells
observations that patients with higher neoantigen is increased, triggering the death of cancerous cells
burden respond better to checkpoint inhibitors such more effectively.
as Tecentriq. Thus, personalised neoantigen vaccines
such as BioNTech’s have the potential to be broadly Scientists across the Roche Group have continued their
combined across Roche’s cancer immunotherapy efforts to further broaden the toolbox for physicians
portfolio and research programmes. This could be and patients to fight cancer by developing new classes
considered the next wave of immunotherapy. of anti-cancer medicines. In cancer immunotherapy,
for example, new antibodies are being created that can
In July 2017, the journal Nature published the results engage immune cells to kill tumour cells, eliminate
of a BioNTech study in which an mRNA-based vaccine cells which suppress the immune response, or generate
was tested in carefully selected melanoma patients more immune cells to recognise tumour cells. One of
for the first time. Eight of the 13 patients remained these promising new cancer immunotherapy platforms
tumour-free at 23 months.4 In late 2017, we included is a T cell bispecific antibody, which can be engineered
the first patient in the phase I study of our vaccine to target different antigens in solid and blood-based
RG6180 combined with Tecentriq in solid tumours. (haematological) tumours.
2 Naryshkin N, et al. Science, 2014. | 3 Sivaramakrishnan M, et al. Nature Communications, 2017. | 4 Sahin U, et al. Nature, 2017.48
antibody formats also hold promise in specific cancer
settings in terms of combination trials with approved
cancer immuno therapies such as Tecentriq.
Smart partnerships across academia and industry
Researchers are facing huge complexity in the medical
sciences today and it is impossible to master these
challenges alone. For example, what we term ‘lung
cancer’ can now be segmented into at least 40 different
molecular subtypes, each driven by a distinct set of
genomic drivers. Each of them requires a distinct set of
A new, blood-based assay is in development to ultimately help tailor treatment options to the tailored treatment approaches. Add to that an abundance
specific immune biology of an individual’s tumour. of targeted investigational compounds available in this
setting, and we are confronted with almost limitless
choices. In view of the naturally limited resources of
any one single company, collaborations with diverse
Diversity of approaches: bispecific antibodies partners are therefore essential.
We are currently developing two T cell bispecific
antibodies that target CD20, a protein expressed only Seeking and securing new first-in-class or best-in-
on the surface of B cells (a type of white blood cell); class opportunities to address unmet medical need
they are both in phase I clinical development. is the remit of the partnering units of Roche in the
Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions. They
The CD20 T cell bispecific (TCB) is based on a complement and strengthen the respective internal
structural format that is engineered to have two R&D organisations in their search for transformative
antibody fragment (‘Fab’) regions which bind to CD20, technologies and therapies.
and one ‘Fab’ region which binds to CD3 (a protein
that plays a role in T cell activation). In contrast, the Roche Pharmaceuticals is engaged in over
CD20 T cell-dependent bispecific (TDB) has a structure 200 partnerships worldwide. Every year, several more
with one ‘Fab’ region targeting CD20 and another new collaborations are sealed. A significant proportion
‘Fab’ region targeting CD3. These antibodies have of this division’s sales and its pipeline are the result of
the potential to be a long-term differentiator in partnered projects. The goal of such collaborations is
haematology as they could provide a level of clinical to successfully leverage the combined strengths of both
benefit for patients with B cell malignancies beyond internal and external stakeholders, ensuring mutually
current anti-CD20-targeting antibodies. Such new beneficial partnerships that will ultimately help patients.Science and innovation | Roche
49
Advancing personalisation in oncology
One example of such collaboration is the agreement
signed between Roche and GNS Healthcare, in Innovating and accelerating clinical trials
June 2017. Roche will use the GNS technology REFS The emergence of entirely new classes of drugs is
(Reverse Engineering and Forward Simulation) to opening up hitherto closed doors for highly targeted
analyse massive volumes of proprietary data such treatment options and staggered combination regimens.
as electronic medical records and next-generation This development is also calling for unconventional
sequencing data. Using these real-world data the approaches in the clinical trials space—from the
collaboration aims to generate unique insights and recruitment and selection of trial participants to the
unravel the hidden drivers of drug response and cancer identification and validation of novel endpoints. In the
progression. There are still many challenging cancers, neurosciences, or central nervous system disorders,
such as CD20-positive diffuse large B cell lymphoma, where Roche has developed a very strong position in
and we hope to find new personalised next-generation R&D in the last few years, there are several factors
cancer treatments to address such challenges. which complicate both the exact diagnosis of disease
and the setup of meaningful trial protocols.
Having established a strategic alliance with Foundation
Medicine (FMI), Roche announced first positive results In cancer, a tissue biopsy can be taken which more
of a new assay being jointly developed by the two often than not reveals its molecular underpinnings,
companies in September 2017.5 Its aim is to advance for example a specific genetic mutation. By contrast,
personalisation of cancer immuno therapy by capturing in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s
and subsequently leveraging progress in biomarker disease or in neurodevelopmental diseases such as
science, ultimately helping to tailor treatment options autism spectrum disorder, both affecting the brain, it
to the specific immune biology of an individual’s is evident that no such biopsies can be taken directly.
tumour. This is facilitated by a novel assay, bTMB, or Fortunately, alternative methods such as different
blood-based tumour mutational burden, a quantitative imaging technologies allow revealing glances into the
clinical marker that measures the number of mutations brain and are becoming more effective.
within a tumour genome.
For oncology clinical trials, there are certain ‘objective’
The bTMB biomarker study was conducted using endpoints whose change over time can be measured
794 plasma samples from the pivotal phase II Poplar quite well, such as tumour shrinkage, overall survival
and phase III Oak Tecentriq studies. TMB has been
found to correlate with and be indicative of the
Collaborations with diverse partners are
likelihood of progression-free survival benefit from
immuno therapies such as Tecentriq. Until now, TMB
essential to master today’s complexity in
could only be measured using a tumour biopsy. By
using this testing approach, it may be possible to
medical science.
extend TMB testing to significantly more patients.
5 Gandara D R, et al. European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) Congress, 8-12 September 2017, Madrid, Spain.50
and progression-free survival. In the neuroscience Clinically meaningful change in autism
area, however, the identification and validation of Medicinal chemists at Roche did groundbreaking
endpoints is much more difficult, requiring innovative work on vasopressin-receptor antagonists starting
thinking and collaborative approaches. back in 2002, and they ultimately succeeded in
creating a small molecule in 2008, RG7314, balovaptan.
Imaging tau pathology in Alzheimer’s disease Fast-forward to 2017: This molecule is now being
Tau pathology is a hallmark of Alzheimer’s disease investigated in late-stage pivotal trials for the treatment
(AD) and certain other neurodegenerative disorders. of individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD),
In AD, post-mortem studies suggest that the amount the most common neuro developmental condition,
and specific location of tau pathology in the brain characterised by difficulties regarding social
correlates with the types of cognitive symptoms and interaction and communication. Hitherto, only
overall disease severity present during life. It would behavioural and cognitive treatments have been
therefore be valuable to be able to detect tau pathology available for people with autism.
in people living with AD, in order to assess disease
progression and support therapeutic clinical trials. Discovering and designing the optimal molecule
Radiochemists at Roche have identified small molecules was a major achievement, but it was not the only one.
that selectively bind to tau pathology and are amenable Before going into the clinic to assess the molecule’s
to radioisotope labelling—enabling the use of positron efficacy in potentially improving the core social and
emission tomography (PET) to detect tau in people communication challenges faced by people with
living with AD. autism, the big challenge was: How do we measure
change in this context? How do we demonstrate that
The lead tau PET tracer is currently under evaluation balovaptan is really improving adaptive behaviours
in a phase I observational study. In this study, patients needed for everyday life? How can we make sure that
with AD undergo imaging with the tracer every the positive change is clinically meaningful enough
six months, and preliminary data suggest that this for patients, caregivers and the authorities, so that
technology is sensitive to disease progression. This it warrants the significant investment required for
novel and valuable technology has already been late-stage development?
incorporated into every AD trial in the portfolio across
the Roche Group, including trials of crenezumab, Roche scientists investigated the Vineland Adaptive
gantenerumab and RO7105705 (anti-tau). Behaviour Scales, a very robust and useful tool to
quantify social behaviours and communication skills
as well as impact on daily living. In collaboration
with key players in the field (international consortia,
In the CNS area, the identification and
academic institutions, major foundations and patient
advocacy groups), Roche scientists collected data from
validation of endpoints requires
approximately 10,000 Vineland Adaptive Behaviour
Scale results. They applied very rigorous statistical
innovative thinking and approaches.
methods and estimated thresholds or numbersScience and innovation | Roche
51
Positron emission tomography (PET) enables scientists to detect tau in people living with AD. The time points from left to right are 0, 6 and 12 month scans, same patient
and same axial plane.
indicative of minimal changes. These are now agreed aggregated alpha-synuclein, this first-in-class molecule
as being meaningful. For the first time, a behavioural targets the underlying pathology of PD, halting an
scale was in place and was used in clinical trials. In infection-like spread of neuronal death. PD is a
short, and based on all this successful work, Roche progressive degenerative disorder of the central nervous
is now being recognised by top researchers and the system (CNS) affecting one in 100 people over age 60.
scientific community, as well as by patient groups, for It is characterised by the neuronal accumulation of
setting new standards and for progressing clinical aggregated alpha-synuclein in the CNS that results
research in the area of ASD. In January 2018, balovaptan in a wide spectrum of worsening motor symptoms
has received FDA breakthrough therapy designation. (resting tremor, muscle stiffness, walking difficulties,
balance problems).
The current clinical assessment standard is the
Movement Disorder Society’s Unified Parkinson’s
Developing diagnostic tests and health apps Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS). This relies on the
In June 2017, Roche announced the start of a phase II physician testing the patients. The scale also includes
study co-developed with Prothena, using its anti- asking the patient about perceived severity. However,
alpha-synuclein antibody RG7935 in Parkinson’s the details of what happens between clinic visits are
disease (PD), an area of high unmet need which lacks largely unknown. Roche scientists designed an app
a disease-modifying treatment. By binding to with an integrated assessment suite to remotely52
Pharmaceuticals clinical pipeline
Phase I Phase II Phase III Registration
1
Oncology 3
2
21
Inflammation/ 1
8
Immunology
7
4
Neuroscience
7
5
1
Infectious diseases
5
1
Ophthalmology
2
1
Others
3
Our pipeline of 72 new molecular entities (NMEs) covers a broad range of diseases, and highly innovative technologies are applied to create and produce the
active molecules.
measure and capture motor symptoms in PD patients outstretched hand while the phone’s accelerometer
via continuous monitoring. With this smartphone records the hand movement. Passive monitoring
Pipeline: clinicians are equipped with much more sensitive registers signals on gait, activity and mobility without
roche.com/pipeline and comprehensive outcome data than would ever patient interaction by using the accelerometer and GPS
be possible using one-off testing on short visits to the sensors to get a picture of the patient’s daily activity,
neurologist’s clinic. The ultimate goal is to capture how far they walk, and how often they sit down or get
vast amounts of data fast and reliably to monitor up. Value can be extracted from these massive data
individual treatment response and subsequently to sets by applying machine learning, namely a toolbox
allow personalisation of treatments. of algorithms capable of providing interpretable results.
In the study, sensors did indeed detect significant
Applying machine learning to large data sets rest tremor in patients clinically scored as having no
Active tests register signals on tremor, dexterity and tremor. On the basis of these encouraging results,
balance among others. For instance, to check the the impact of targeting alpha-synuclein with RG7935
level of tremor, the patient holds the phone in the and its impact on disease progression as measuredScience and innovation | Roche
53
using a next-generation Parkinson’s app plus a because we can review more information about
smartwatch are being evaluated in the global phase II how diseases manifest themselves and how patients
study that started in June 2017. The first results experience them day-to-day. This development will
obtained so far are highly promising, and they point bring disruptive change to how we research, develop,
to the great potential of digitisation in healthcare. approve and pay for medicines.
Connecting the past with the future Since 2013, the FDA has granted Roche
Historically, Roche has been very productive in 19 breakthrough therapy designations (BTDs) to
bringing important medicines to patients. The fact expedite the development and review of medicines
that 30 medicines developed by Roche are included in with early evidence of potential clinical benefit in
the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines is ample serious or life-threatening diseases. Roche leads the
proof of that. Twenty-five of these are patent-free and industry in terms of the number of BTDs, which bears
include life-saving antibiotics, anti-malarials and witness to the innovative power of Roche’s worldwide
cancer medicines. R&D efforts and clearly reflects the value of our
products for patients, and for society at large.
Recent history proves that Roche’s continuous
massive investment in R&D, now totalling roughly The year 2017 saw a strong flow of positive news
one-fifth of sales or CHF 10.4 billion on a Group for Roche. Regulatory approvals of important new
level in 2017—the largest single R&D budget in the medicines such as Ocrevus and Hemlibra as well as
life sciences industry and one of the largest across positive data from key clinical studies such as Alur,
all industries—has borne rich fruit in the last few Alex, IMpower150 and 151 in non-small cell lung
years. Roche now has 72 new molecular entities in cancer and kidney cancer as well as Haven 1, 2 and 3
its Pharmaceuticals’ R&D portfolio, all being tested in haemophilia A were among the major highlights of
in hundreds of early- and late-stage clinical trials. the year. These positive developments were tempered
The number of medicine launches between 2011 and by some trials failing to meet their primary endpoint.
2017 was three times higher than in the previous However, the many positive results from our clinical
seven years. trials and approvals of new medicines represent a
strong validation of our pipeline during a time of
We continue this legacy of drawing on our world- major change in our industry.
class pharmaceuticals and diagnostics capabilities,
complemented by solid expertise in the areas of next-
generation sequencing and actionable real-world
clinical data. Roche is uniquely positioned to take
The positive developments reported
personalised healthcare to the next level.
in 2017 represent a strong validation
In an era of digital technology, we will be able to
increasingly tailor medical treatment to the needs
of our pipeline.
of individuals and small sub-groups of patients,54Access to healthcare | Roche
55
Acce s s to
healthcare
Groundbreaking advances in medical science are
only meaningful when they reach the people who
need them.
Material topics covered in this chapter
• Sustainable healthcare
• Pricing
• Disease awareness and treatment education
• Growth strategy in emerging markets
Contribution to the UN SDGs56
W
e develop comprehensive access plans adjusted to local
requirements and embed them into our business strategy.
According to the WHO, 400 million people lack Joining forces to make a difference
access to basic healthcare.1 It is a multidimensional Roche is playing a leading role in an initiative
challenge that does not have a ‘one size fits all’ which brings together more than 20 leading
solution. Complex treatments, such as those for biopharmaceutical companies along with the
cancer, often require sophisticated diagnosis, World Bank and the Union for International Cancer
specialised training and hospital infrastructure for Control (UICC). The Access Accelerated Initiative
successful therapy. The barriers to this differ from was launched in 2017 and focuses on improving
country to country. Roche focuses on locally tailored access to treatments for non-communicable diseases
solutions because access is so intricately linked to (NCDs), such as cancers, cardiovascular diseases,
how healthcare systems work. We address the chronic respiratory diseases and diabetes. In doing
multidimensional challenge of access through so, it takes up the UN Sustainable Development Goal
focusing on four key areas: to reduce deaths from NCDs by a third by 2030.
1. Awareness A key pillar of this initiative is the commitment of
2. Diagnosis individual companies to scale up their own efforts to
3. Healthcare capacity improve access. Roche launched new programmes in
4. Funding 2017, one in Pakistan, to offer a sustainable financial
solution for those needing Roche oncology and
In order to properly address these four factors, immunology biologic medicines (details page 61).
we need a deep understanding of the root causes
of why people might not have access to medicines Another programme is being conducted in Kenya,
and diagnostics. To this end, we systematically apply where Roche is working with the government to
our Access Planning Framework country by country, increase access to treatment for HER2-positive
creating comprehensive access plans which are then breast cancer. Roche supported a comprehensive
embedded into our business strategy. To date, we plan which addresses awareness, diagnosis and
have these detailed plans in more than 70 countries. healthcare capacity as well as treatment.Access to healthcare | Roche
57
Breast cancer, Morocco HIV, sub-Saharan Africa Diabetes, Africa/Asia PRM, Europe
Breast cancer, USA HER2 testing, Asia Breast cancer, Saudi Arabia Differential pricing, Egypt
Breast cancer, Colombia Elderly care, Japan Financial support, USA
Awareness of disease and Diagnosis of the disease Healthcare capacity needs Funding for healthcare
symptoms is essential for can be complex, but is vital to well-trained teams working investment and reimbursement
screening and early detection. ensuring the right treatment together with the right of medicines and tests is critical
choice. equipment to provide the best to protect patients from
chances for patients. financial burden.
Increasing awareness to help early detection This will be used with local governments to increase
Successful treatment begins with an awareness of understanding of cancer and its impact on the public,
the symptoms of a disease and a visit to a healthcare and to help improve healthcare funding.
professional. Lack of awareness can keep patients
from accessing care. Roche runs awareness campaigns Following an agreement with key partners in the
and builds strong partnerships all over the world to United Arab Emirates, Roche is supporting local
improve this. health authorities in reducing cancer mortality by
2021 through conducting workshops, educational
The impact of such awareness programmes has activities and awareness campaigns to train healthcare
been demonstrated in Morocco. The local Roche professionals. In addition, Roche is partnering with
organisation partners with the Lalla Salma Foundation stakeholders in the Dubai Cancer Initiative to provide
in the Contre le cancer campaign which initiated unlimited access to screening and cancer treatment
breast cancer awareness and screening programmes. for all of the four million people who live in Dubai.
To date, free screenings have been provided for about
one million women, enabling early breast cancer
diagnosis for hundreds.
Successful therapy begins with awareness
Meanwhile, in the Middle East, we are developing
a breast cancer policy project in collaboration with
of the symptoms of a disease and a visit
international partners to better understand the
attitudes and priorities around cancer in the region,
to a healthcare professional.
and to use this research to develop a white paper.
1 WHO. Tracking universal health coverage: first global monitoring report, June 2015.58
In Latin America, we teamed up with the Economist However, in many countries, early diagnosis is rare.
Intelligence Unit to raise awareness of the impact In a number of African countries, up to 80% of cancer
cancer is having in the region.2 At a presentation at patients are diagnosed at the late-to-end stage. In
the War on Cancer LATAM conference in Bogota, it addition to the lack of general awareness, many
was highlighted that deaths from cancer in the region hospitals or clinics are simply not equipped with the
will increase by 106% by 2035 and that better disease instrumentation or qualified personnel needed to
awareness, diagnosis, healthcare capacity and funding provide treatment. This is why the placements of
as well as partnership and collaboration were needed. Roche’s automated Ventana Benchmark diagnostic
equipment for tissue diagnosis (immunohistochemistry,
Timely diagnosis to ensure right treatment choices IHC) and respective training programmes are critical
Diagnosis is critical and can be complex, requiring components of our support for access in sub-Saharan
specialist laboratory technicians or facilities for Africa (SSA). To date, 50 technicians have been
testing that may not be accessible for many people. trained and this will have an impact on disease areas
Proper diagnosis is the only way to ensure that the other than breast cancer. A total of eight cancer centres
right treatment choice is made. across SSA now have this state-of-the-art technology.
Early, accurate diagnosis can significantly increase The breast cancer project initiated by Roche in
a patient’s chance of survival. In breast cancer for Turkmenistan enabled significant improvement
example, 98.8% of patients survive five years if of early detection and differentiated diagnosis of
diagnosed early compared with only 26.3% if diagnosed disease. One of the main pillars of the project is the
with the disease at an advanced stage.3 As a result of introduction of IHC diagnostics with our automated
modern diagnosis and therapy, breast cancer death equipment. Switching from a manual system to
rates dropped 39% between 1989 and 2015 in the US.4 automated testing allowed an increase in HER2
biomarker testing for women from 100 in 2015 to
800 in 2017. This included patients from regional
hospitals and remote areas of the country. Another
As a result of modern diagnosis and
pillar is widespread disease awareness campaigns,
regularly conducted with Roche’s support since 2011
therapy, breast cancer death rates dropped
in the capital Ashgabat and in five regions of the
country, resulting in a 10% increase in early breast
39% between 1989 and 2015 in the US.
cancer detection versus 2010.Access to healthcare | Roche
59
98.8%
Early diagnosis
26.3%
Advanced stage
In breast cancer, the vast majority of patients survive five years if diagnosed early while only about one quarter of women survive if their disease is caught at a late stage.
Having diagnostic capabilities in place is only another 900 have attended 26 workshops on
meaningful if people can get to the clinic to be tested. conducting clinical breast examinations. In 2017,
In Colombia, for instance, breast cancer causes the more than 100,000 women were screened. Overall,
highest number of deaths in women from cancer each this approach might serve as a template for other
year. However, many Colombian women are not aware types of cancer as well.
of the risk factors for cancer or of the importance of
early detection and diagnosis. Improving healthcare capacity
Limited healthcare infrastructure—such as a
Roche is working with some of Colombia’s largest lack of healthcare facilities and trained healthcare
healthcare organisations to address this issue by professionals—is often a major barrier to accessing
providing training and awareness campaigns and modern medicines and diagnostics in some of
by creating Consultorios para la mujer (women’s the world’s poorest countries. To help overcome
consulting rooms) throughout the country. These these barriers, Roche has established a number of
are specialised clinics working towards improved programmes aimed at making lasting improvements
access to early diagnosis and improved treatment. in local capabilities. These range from educating
The objective is to reduce the barriers and hurdles and training healthcare professionals and regulatory
a patient may encounter on the way to diagnosis, personnel to helping establish clinics and laboratories
treatment and, hopefully, recovery where possible. and strengthening local manufacturing capabilities
This is done by working with health insurance and supply chains.
companies, healthcare professionals and providers,
as well as with the government. So far, almost Our focus is on increasing local capabilities, as we
5,000 healthcare professionals have attended plenary believe this provides the most sustainable way of
lectures on our patient journey programmes, while addressing local health needs and helping develop
2 https://events.economist.com/events-conferences/americas/war-on-cancer-latam | 3 National Cancer Institute, SEER available at https://seer.cancer.gov/
statfacts/html/breast.html | 4 DeSantis C E et al. Breast cancer statistics, 2017. A Cancer Journal for Clinicians. DOI: 10.3322/caac.21412, 2017.60
Women undergoing rehabilitation activities following breast cancer surgery.
healthcare systems for the future. One such example This negates the need for healthcare professionals
is The Blue Tree Programme in India, which was to travel to major cities to attend necessary ongoing
presented as an example of best practice at a side event medical education. In 2017, Diálogo Roche reached
during the 72nd United Nations General Assembly more than 50,000 registered physicians in seven
(UNGA) in 2017. It is a unique cancer patient support countries across Latin America.
initiative tailored to address the multiple hurdles
that patients experience during the course of their The health infrastructures of many countries in Africa
treatment—primarily around diagnosis, affordability do not have the capacity to meet the rising need for care
and adherence. In 2017, the project supported over for non-communicable diseases, including cancer. The
4,000 patients. Roche partnered with more than current healthcare workforce in sub-Saharan Africa
750 doctors and this enabled access to treatment would need to be scaled up by some 140% to meet
across 300 cancer centres in India. Patients on the existing need. To help address the acute shortage of
programme have shown a 40% increase in therapy oncology healthcare professionals, Roche conducted
adherence rates. 116 training sessions for oncology specialists across
the region in 2017.
In Latin America, the online platform Diálogo Roche
was established in 2015 to keep healthcare professionals Enabling sustainable healthcare funding
across the region updated with information about We have developed a number of pricing solutions,
clinical studies, scientific advances and congresses. such as Personalised Reimbursement Models (PRM),Access to healthcare | Roche
61
Collaborations with insurance firms
which enable pricing according to the value the
medicine brings in different indications, and
provide millions of patients better
International Differential Pricing, which sets the price
of a medicine according to a country’s economic
access to cancer medicines.
situation with a purchasing power parity adjusted
GDP per capita formula. One example of how this
hurdle has been overcome is Roche’s collaboration
with private insurance companies in countries where because they cannot afford proper cancer care. In
public coverage may not be adequate. Southeast Asia for example, 75% of patients diagnosed
with cancer suffer financial catastrophe or die within
In China, four of our cancer medicines—Herceptin, a year. Meanwhile, medical insurance schemes cover
MabThera/Rituxan, Avastin and Tarceva—were less than 8% of the population in Africa.
included in the National Reimbursement Drug List
(NRDL) as of 2017. For the first time, cancer patients Innovative funding solutions
all over China will have access to these potentially Where funding barriers exist, we find practical
life-saving treatments. This agreement came as a result ways to overcome them. In Georgia, we entered into
of Roche’s systematic approach of identifying local an agreement with the city municipality of Tbilisi
access hurdles and creating a tailored local plan. to improve funding for HER2-positive early breast
cancer patients eligible for Herceptin. In 2017, this
In Uruguay, as a result of a commercial agreement programme was expanded to include breast cancer
with the country’s National Resources Fund, HER2- patients receiving Perjeta and Herceptin in the
positive breast cancer patients will now have full metastatic setting by offering flexible pricing solutions.
access to Herceptin, Perjeta and Kadcyla from 2017 to Now, all women with early breast cancer in Georgia
2019, with 900 patients expected to receive treatment can be treated with Herceptin, and we are pursuing
during this time period. efforts to enable the treatment of advanced breast
cancer patients across the country.
In order to protect patients from financial burden,
funding is needed for investment in healthcare and In Pakistan, we launched a patient support programme
the reimbursement of medicines and diagnostic tests. in collaboration with a number of partners in 2017 that
However, many countries do not provide universal enables us to provide funding to indigent patients who
healthcare that spreads the risk of catastrophic disease are eligible for Herceptin, MabThera/Rituxan, Avastin
across the population as is done in the more developed and Perjeta. Since August 2017, more than 500 patients
parts of the world. In countries lacking such coverage, have been able to receive potentially life-saving
too often, patients are turned away or go into debt medicines that otherwise would have been out of reach.62Access to healthcare | Roche
63
Micha Nussbaum, Roche, Brazil
“By doing our jobs well, we are making
a contribution to the community.”
I am Swiss and studied medicine at the University of look for sustainable solutions. When we identified
Zurich. I have always been interested in translating healthcare bottlenecks caused by a lack of training,
scientific innovation into patient benefits. That is what Roche organised courses for 5,000 doctors, nurses
eventually led me, after an interlude as a business and community workers across Brazil. When we
consultant, to the pharmaceutical industry. discovered that many women were not picking up
their cancer screening results, we developed a
My interest in Brazil began with an exchange system to inform them with messages on their
programme during my MBA studies. It is a huge and mobile phones.
fascinating country, with many different subcultures
brought by waves of immigrants. Despite the current We leveraged our international connections and
economic crisis, there is an underlying dynamism that invited an expert on Canada’s oncology healthcare
rewards people who take the initiative and are persistent. policies to share best practices at a congress for
I joined Roche in São Paulo in 2014. Together with national public policymakers. We also commissioned a
functional experts across the company, we focus on benchmarking report from the Economist Intelligence
expanding access to therapy for cancer patients. Like Unit on Brazil’s current oncology healthcare policies.
many other developing countries, Brazil has a rising The findings are being presented at local congresses to
incidence of breast, cervical and colorectal cancer. highlight successes as well as areas for improvement.
Partnership with Brazilian healthcare authorities I appreciate working with public policymakers as
Working alone, Roche can have only a limited impact partners and in this way helping to improve access
in such a large country. But by collaborating with to healthcare. I will continue this collaboration at
federal, state and municipal healthcare authorities Roche as I transitioned from Pharmaceuticals to my
in Brazil, our public access managers are making a new position in Diagnostics.
difference. For example, we have reached agreements
with the states of Goiás and Maranhão to expand People in Brazil can feel that we at Roche have a
access for patients to advanced oncology treatments, long-term commitment, and see us as both a global
and negotiations are proceeding with other states. and a local company. In my case, there is also a
personal connection. I am married to a Brazilian
Together, we made a detailed analysis of every step cardiologist, and we are raising two children here.
in the cancer patient’s journey—from prevention and We are both convinced that by doing our jobs well,
screening to diagnosis and treatment. We try and we are making a contribution to the community.64Our people | Roche
65
Our people
Talented individuals connected and inspired by our purpose
are the basis of our success. Our people drive healthcare
innovations that touch the lives of millions of patients.
Material topics covered in this chapter
• Employee engagement and talent retention
• Compensation/benefits
• Leadership Commitments
• Organisational effectiveness
Contribution to the UN SDGs66
T
here is something special about working at Roche and it starts
with our culture.
After more than 120 years, we remain a majority our core global people practices with principles
family-owned Swiss company, committed to of simplicity, flexibility, accountability and speed.
innovation and focused on the long term to ensure A critical component of this transformation is
that what we do is sustainable for future generations. technology, which plays a key role in offering us more
When asked about our culture, Roche employees sophisticated, yet user-friendly options that provide
describe the deeply engrained values of integrity, our people with easy system access, from any place
courage and passion. They also highlight collaboration, on any device at any time. To embed the mindset
the thrill of working on the cutting edge of science required for our new practices, we have reshaped
and the inspiration that outstanding leadership one of the ways our people interact to support more
provides. Underpinning it all is our shared purpose: timely and meaningful conversations. Via ‘Check-
Doing now what patients need next. People working at Ins’, the dialogue between employees and managers
Roche know their work contributes to breakthrough puts a conscious focus on four essential themes:
diagnostic solutions and innovative medicines to connections, capabilities, contributions and career.
treat cancer, multiple sclerosis and a host of other This simple and powerful framework further fosters
serious diseases. relationships based on trust, and shared ownership,
and also ensures that conversations focus on what
We also continue to receive accolades for being a matters most.
top employer and creating an excellent environment
for our people. Year after year, our headquarters in Leveraging diversity and enhancing wellbeing
Switzerland and Roche affiliates around the world are The importance of mutual respect in the workplace is
awarded top marks by the Great Place to Work Institute reflected in our commitment to Diversity and Inclusion
and the Top Employers Institute in their respective (D&I). We were one of the first major corporations
countries. In the US, Genentech and Roche were once in Europe to state our D&I goals publicly, and have
again recognised by the highly coveted Fortune’s The made substantial progress in achieving them. We
100 Best Companies to Work For list. think beyond the physical characteristics to the
qualities that make each person unique. In order to
Innovating in our people practices leverage diversity as an engine of innovation, we strive
In addition to pushing into new frontiers of science, for an inclusive workplace where each individual is
innovation is also present in how we focus on our respected and can fully contribute his or her skills,
people. A company-wide project serves to transform experiences and perspectives. Complementing theOur people | Roche
67
support from our leaders, we have a global network and screenings, fitness centres, workplace ergonomic
of D&I champions who lead efforts within sites and evaluations and counselling services. Once a year, we
functional areas. A grass-roots example is ‘Do one also dedicate a special week for Roche sites globally
thing for Diversity’, an initiative where employees to collectively focus on wellbeing and heighten overall
globally posted pledges and videos of how they are awareness of the importance of this topic. Employees
or will be positively impacting D&I. learn more about our Live Well offering and participate
in activities organised by their local teams ranging
We want our top leadership to reflect our organisation from sports and relaxation techniques to lectures on
and society as a whole. Roche also believes that health topics and nutrition.
building up first-hand knowledge of the healthcare
environment is beneficial as it can help in expanding Finding the desired balance between the many priorities
access to treatment and guide us in doing what is in life can be challenging and varied for each person.
right for patients. By supporting our people to gain Roche firmly supports flexible work arrangements,
experience living and working in high-growth and part-time work and job sharing. Flexibility also means
developing markets as well as mature, established finding new ways of working with technology and
markets, we strengthen our capabilities and embed alternative work environments. Our people use video-
this critical understanding. conferencing and telepresence. They are also engaged
in several online communities for best practice sharing,
We established corporate goals several years ago to solving problems, and virtually connecting with
increase the percentage of women leaders and, more colleagues across geographies. This benefits our people
recently, added a focus on increasing the percentage and also the environment by reducing the carbon
of leaders that bring experience from diverse markets. footprint. We have also progressively introduced work
The percentage of women in leadership roles at Roche environments with diverse concepts that encourage
overall has risen 28% since 2014. In terms of leaders collaboration, enable quiet as well as private space
with breadth of experience, we have also achieved our and foster a spirit of teamwork and innovation for
initial milestones. our people.
Importance of work-life balance
Flexibility also means finding new
As a healthcare company, we believe that a healthy
lifestyle is a major factor in the overall wellbeing
ways of working with technology
of our employees. This is the basis for Live Well at
Roche. This initiative, tailored by each site to best
and alternative work environments.
represent their needs, may include medical check-ups68
Learning and leadership development
Adapting to an ever-changing world
At Roche, we strive to help our people realise their Learning and development have many dimensions
full potential and contribute at a high level as our at Roche. It may be a ‘stretch’ assignment that
organisation evolves in a fast-changing world. That challenges an employee to grow professionally, a
is why learning is integral to our daily work and we Changing Perspectives temporary assignment at an
emphasise the continuous building of capabilities affiliate on another continent, or a micro-secondment
for now and the future. Managers partner with for volunteer work in Africa. In the case of our Pharma
employees to ensure that the most impactful actions Technical Operations team representing more than
are taken to support an employee’s learning and 10,000 employees, it means learning by doing, working
professional growth. These can range from building in a more efficient way through LEAN manufacturing.
new connections to gaining new experiences, Or it may be ‘reverse mentoring’, in which different
classroom courses or online learning. generations of people work together, learn from one
Our Leadership Commitments
I firmly believe that each person at
1. I take a genuine interest in people.
2. I listen carefully, tell the truth, and explain ‘the why’.
Roche deserves a great leader. Every
3. I empower and trust people to make decisions.
4. I discover and develop the potential in people.
day I strive to lead by example,
5. I strive for excellence and extraordinary results.
6. I set priorities and simplify work.
consistently demonstrating our values
7. I congratulate people for a job well done.
of Integrity, Courage and Passion.Our people | Roche
69
People: five-year goals
based on 2014 figures
26% 28% 29% +30%
13% 16% 18% 19% 21% 22% 23% in the representation of women
in key leadership roles
+30%
22% 24% 25%
20%
19%
in the representation of people with established and
developing region experience in key leadership roles
Top quartile
62% 67% 71% 72% 75% or more
ranking in overall employee engagement score,
measured by the Global Employee Opinion Survey
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 Goal
Baseline
another and find opportunities to leverage Our newest executive leadership development
collective strengths. offering is Kinesis, aptly named because it represents
the ever-changing landscape and the agility needed
Kinesis and NJIA: a new kind of leadership in our leadership response to those changes. The
development emphasis is much less on traditional instruction
We believe that every employee deserves a great and much more on peer-to-peer learning, personal
leader. The touchstone of what that means at Roche can introspection and solving real-world problems.
be found in our Leadership Commitments—created
through a collaborative effort across the company. Experience-based leadership development is also the
We expect our leaders to bring these commitments to focus of NJIA (Kiswahili for ‘path’). Mid-level managers
life in their daily behaviour. These expectations are undergo an intensive week in rural Tanzania, where
reinforced through a range of learning experiences for they work with local counterparts on results-oriented
leaders such as Leading@ Roche, a suite of programmes projects such as expanding screening for cervical
for all leaders in the organisation. cancer. For many participants, the personal and
professional impact is life-changing (see page 72).70
World-class talent shaping the future
Enhancing our digital capabilities
A key reason why many prospective employees Cutting-edge science and personalised healthcare
join Roche and choose to stay with us is the calibre Roche is a science-driven company, and we are
of the people who work here. From award-winning constantly looking for talent to drive the next wave
scientists with pioneering inventions to top experts of healthcare breakthroughs. One important trend
and professionals in various fields of study, we attract shaping our industry is deep data. With our leadership
and retain some of the world’s most talented people. position in personalised healthcare—using molecular
diagnostics and targeted medicines to customise
therapy for each individual—we are in a unique
position to translate deep data into patient benefits. To
realise this new medical paradigm, we are developing
Applause: recognition that reflects and enhancing the digital capabilities of our people as
well as recruiting software engineers, bioinformatics
the way we work
specialists, real-world data analysts, machine learning
experts and other digital professionals who connect
to our purpose.
Recognition for a job well done is a powerful motivator and
contributes a great deal to overall work satisfaction. At Roche, Under the umbrella of Code4Life, Roche launched
we have a number of awards for extraordinary achievements. In a coding game on its career website for engineers to
addition, we have implemented an innovative programme known present their coding skills. The goal of this game is to
as Applause that encourages peer-to-peer recognition. Employees equip a laboratory to produce medicines for patients—
can send their colleagues anywhere in the world customised thank- and ultimately to attract talented digital professionals
you notes and nominate them for points that can be redeemed from to Roche. Winners received the opportunity to visit the
an online catalogue. This method of recognition works especially company, see real laboratories and meet with senior
well for our many project teams that collaborate across national executives. The number of teams that participated in
and functional boundaries. Roche employees made use of Applause the game was impressive and provided excellent
over 231,649 times in 2017. insights for future initiatives.Our people | Roche
71
Our talent strategy is to pursue recruitment excellence by attracting the best highly skilled, motivated people.
Roche offers a highly competitive salary and students acquire technical and scientific skills
performance-based rewards. There is a wide needed in the coming years, Roche has established
variety of generous benefits tailored to the needs excellent partnerships with universities in several
and expectations of our various locations. These countries such as China, Spain and the US to
may include pension plans, health insurance, child shape their curriculum. In Switzerland, the Roche
care, on-site medical facilities and fitness centres, apprenticeship programme has achieved such strong
preventive health screenings, and transportation to results that the local government has requested we
and from the workplace. Employees are given the train additional students to provide more qualified
opportunity to buy Roche stock at a discounted graduates. This apprenticeship programme has been
price in many countries. so successful that it is being replicated in South Korea.
Finally, we have invested in Futurelab in South San
Our outreach programmes for young people are Francisco and the world-class Experio lab in
another way of shaping the future and ensuring that Switzerland to give back to society and help prepare
we have qualified candidates for the future. To help the next generation of scientific leaders.72Our people | Roche
73
Ashley Magargee, Roche, Singapore
“I think about the impact we had and the
magnitude of the unmet need.”
As General Manager of the Roche affiliate in Singapore, I learned to step back and not look immediately
I am accustomed to working in a fast-moving, dynamic for solutions. A different kind of leadership was
environment. But my experience in Tanzania took needed here—one that emphasised working with
it to a whole new level. The leadership development and through our Tanzanian counterparts. It replaces
programme NJIA—Kiswahili for ‘path’—is about decisions and delegation with listening, asking and
keeping your focus in an ambiguous environment. empowering. One way to do that was role modelling:
NJIA is a partnership between Roche, the Tanzanian We demonstrated how to structure a meeting, get
government, and not-for-profit organisations. all ideas on the table and ensure clear individual
responsibilities. I remember one team member in
I was part of the third team from Roche and local particular, Happy. It was so gratifying to see how
healthcare leaders who came together in rural Tanzania she developed new skills and gained more confidence
to apply our leadership skills to preventing cervical every day. In return, Happy showed me how much
cancer. During my 12-day stay, which was part of a you can do with few resources and passion.
longer six-month programme, we learned that the
medical need is compelling. Tanzanian women are An official from the local healthcare district was part
20 times more likely to die of this disease than women of my group. With new-found skills from NJIA, he
in developed countries. made a convincing case to his superiors for acquiring
inexpensive cryotherapy equipment through locally
We were based in Bukoba on the western shore of Lake available resources to treat pre-cancerous cervical
Victoria. My group’s focus was on getting treatment for lesions. Our group also included a healthcare
65 women on a nearby island who had tested positive practitioner who went to the island to perform the
for pre-cancerous cervical cells. A previous NJIA team cryotherapy. I am convinced that he saved lives by
had developed materials to raise awareness about diagnosing the disease early among those 65 women.
screening and treatment. Since then, he has screened more than 700 women
living on the islands.
Different approach to leadership
At Roche, we are used to implementing meticulous When I reflect on my experience in Tanzania, I
project plans. That did not work in Tanzania, where think about the impact we had and the magnitude
things did not always go as planned. During our first of the unmet need. It gives me renewed energy for
lake crossing, for example, a powerful storm rocked our mission at Roche and challenges me at the same
our boat and knocked out all electricity on the island. time: How can I do more?74Environment | Roche
75
Env ironme nt
At Roche, protecting the environment is not just a
legal or social obligation, it is integral to our values.
Material topics covered in this chapter
• Environmental responsibility
Contribution to the UN SDGs76
A
s a global company we have been committed to mitigating
our impact on the environment for many years.
We proactively seek new, more sustainable technologies Furthermore, we invest in innovative technologies and
and processes to achieve our environmental goals. We conduct training programmes for all Roche employees.
focus our efforts and activities on many environmental In 2017, a total of 107,444 employees participated in
issues, supporting several of the world’s serious 322,859 hours of dedicated training, an average of
environmental challenges, for example, climate change, approximately 3.0 hours per employee.
water scarcity and pharmaceuticals in the environment.
We are committed to continuously monitoring key
So, what are we doing to address environmental issues? performance indicators to ensure compliance with our
Environmental risks are mitigated via a system of standards and objectives. Our aim is to achieve at least
prevention and a successful environmental management 95% of each key performance indicator.
system (EMS). We have established a proactive EMS
to reduce costs, increase efficiency and enhance Roche eco-balance 2017
competitiveness. We measure our impact on the environment by using
the eco-balance metric, developed by the Swiss Federal
The effectiveness of our EMS is reviewed frequently. Office for the Environment, and we are compliant
Expert teams at each Roche site identify risks and with their latest guidelines.1 This metric provides us
develop mitigation plans. We have a dedicated team with a global view of how we are impacting the Earth’s
to audit our chemical, pharmaceutical and diagnostic ecosystems.
manufacturing facilities. Plant management and local
officers conduct more frequent checks and inspections. In 2016, we reached our eco-balance goal (10%
Furthermore, we have developed a clear and defined reduction compared to 2014). Since then, we have
process to create progress through target setting and aimed to reduce our eco-balance goal by a further 2%
initiating action plans. The goals we set in the areas each year. Our improvements in terms of decreasing
of people, environment and business are challenging energy consumption, air emissions and the volume
but feasible. of water consumed, as well as in reducing the weight of
chemical waste, led to a further improvement of 8.7%
in 2017 compared to 2016. We achieved these results
despite growing production capacities and additional
buildings across sites.Environment | Roche
77
1.9% 11.1%
Noise pollution Emissions to water
7.9%
67.7%
Primary energy
Emissions to air
Roche
eco-balance
3.2%
2017
Landfilled waste
8.2%
Water consumption
Five-year goals
Natural capital assessment
In parts of the world where water is becoming
increasingly scarce and its quality is in gradual
decline, restrictions around use and potential costs Eco-balance* 7.25 6.99 6.35 5.79 -10%
of supply may increase, so we believe it is important (million points/employee)
-3.6% -12.4% -20.1%
to develop a strategy for this now.
In 2017 we committed to assessing water management Energy consumption** 173 167 158 -15%
at our site in South San Francisco, US, using the (GJ (FFE#)/employee)
-3.5%
-8.7%
Natural Capital Protocol. This is an internationally
agreed framework that sets out how businesses can
455
measure the monetary value of their environmental General waste*** 435
422 -10%
impacts and dependencies to both society and (kg/employee) +4.6%
-3.0%
themselves.
Water consumption*** 533 481 477 -10%
(1,000m3/employee)†
-9.8% -10.5%
2014 2015 2016 2017 Goal
* 2014–2019 | ** 2015–2025 | *** 2015–2020 | # FFE: Fossil Fuel Equivalent |
† weighted by water stress | Changes in % related to 2014 and 2015 respectively
1 Swiss Eco-Factors. Ecological Scarcity Methods, 2013.78
Reducing energy and water consumption
Introducing eco-efficient technologies
A large proportion of the energy used in our At our Diagnostics site in Tucson, US, for example, we
operations currently comes from fossil fuel sources have established a 20-year-term agreement with the
such as oil and gas. In the long term, however, our local utility provider. This will allow our local site to
goal is to fully substitute fossil and nuclear energies be 100% solar-powered using renewable energy from
with energy from renewable sources. Roche utilises a the utility provider. In addition, the provider can
wide range of practices, techniques and skills to keep validate the usage of solar power, which allows Roche
energy consumption to a minimum. In 2017, our total to acquire renewable energy certificates showing
energy consumption decreased by 5.4%, while sales reduction in emissions versus fossil fuel usage. There
grew 5%. This included a 6.8% decrease in energy used will be considerable environmental benefits associated
in buildings and stationary equipment (gas, fuel oil, with this initiative, including an expected 90% reduction
waste, electricity, district heating). in CO emissions from our Tucson site over a four-
2
year period starting in 2015.
Energy consumption in terajoules
Vacaville, US, is another Roche site to install solar
2017 2016 2015 2014 power arrays. Since the solar plant came online in
Total (scope 1* and May 2017, it has generated approximately 7,700 MWh
scope 2**) 9,219 9,824 10,297 10,808 of electrical energy, avoiding 5,489 t of carbon dioxide.
Energy (scope 1 and 2) During the first five months, this venture has saved
consumption (GJ/ Vacaville approximately USD 800,000. It is
employee)# 91 98 105 108 anticipated that first-year savings will be around
Scope 3*** USD 950,000.
Business flights 2,871 2,953 2,876 2,672
Share of sustainable energy
* Scope 1: energy generated within own facilities (eg, combustion of gas)
** Scope 2: purchased energy | *** Scope 3: business flights
# Data collected by Group SHE | (GJ = gigajoule) 87.1% 85.0% 83.8% 81.5% 80.0%
We focus on measures to reduce our energy 20.0%
consumption and, in parallel, to decrease CO 2 12.9% 15.0% 16.2% 18.5%
emissions.
2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 Goal
Non-sustainable SustainableEnvironment | Roche
79
Reducing our water consumption
Our goal, to reduce water consumption per employee
by 10% by 2020, was reached this year. Our aim now
is a continuous improvement in both the long and
short term. Our approach is to manage and monitor
water use locally. Even though most of the sites that
use large volumes of water are not located in areas of
water scarcity, we adopt conservation and reduction
programmes according to local needs.
Water usage and discharge
2017 2016 2015 2014
Water withdrawn
(million m3) 15.9 18.2 18.9 18.4 Andreas Oeri, representative of the founding family and member of the Board of Directors,
Water consumed shows strong interest in sustainability. He joined a safety, security, health and environmental
(million m3) 3.0 3.1 3.5 3.0 protection (SHE) audit of a third-party provider in India in 2017.
Water discharged
to treatment plant
(million m3) 5.8 5.7 7.8 5.8
Organic matter In 2017, for the first time, Roche was identified
discharged to waterways as a global leader for its actions to manage water
after treatment (t) 144 149 190 141 more sustainably. CDP, the not-for-profit global
Heavy metals discharged environmental disclosure platform, awarded Roche
to waterways after a position on this year’s Water A List. Through CDP,
treatment (kg) 129 164 160 236 more than 800 institutional investors with assets
of over USD 100 trillion are asking companies to
disclose how they are managing the risks posed by
To this end, all Roche sites are either working on or worsening water security. Companies on the Water
implementing programmes to reduce water usage or A List receive the highest rating in accordance with
to increase efficiency in water usage. CDP’s water scoring methodology.80
Reducing emissions to air and water
Phasing out greenhouse gases
At Roche, we want to reduce emissions at their source. Greenhouse gases are being phased out
To support this, sites are required to develop action The majority of greenhouse gases (GHG) emitted by
plans that are closely monitored for implementation the Roche Group come from energy generation and
and effects. consist, for the most part, of CO . Less than 1% is
2
halogenated hydrocarbons from refrigeration and
With these plans in place, we are able to maintain the cooling plants.
low level of emissions to the air achieved so far, and
to make further improvements at our manufacturing In 2017, our emissions to air from nitrogen oxides
sites. And this approach is working. Since 2002, the and sulphur dioxide increased by 5.9% and 19.7%,
company has reduced halogens and halogenated while particulates and volatile organic compounds
refrigerants by approximately 91%. decreased by 5.8% and 18.9%, respectively. Our
absolute scope 1 and scope 2 GHG emissions were
Upgrading technology to reduce environmental harm cut by 12.6% in 2017.
We are reducing our carbon footprint by purchasing
energy-efficient equipment, including hybrid cars, Halogens, halogenated refrigerants and fire
and by increasing sustainable energy supplies, as well suppressants are GHGs that can remain in the
as by monitoring employee travel needs and work atmosphere for a long period of time. We have
processes. Since 2010, a total of 1,411 projects have been therefore committed to a 20% reduction in our use
completed, resulting in an avoidance of 177,050 tonnes of these halogens by 2020 compared with 2015.
of CO emissions in 2017. This led to an estimated cost
2
saving of CHF 40.5 million per year. Halogenated hydrocarbons in tonnes*
Our site in Oceanside, US, successfully installed 2017 2016 2015 2014
more environmentally friendly freeze-thaw natural Inventory 114.3 134.3 154.6 167.3
refrigerant systems, which are used for drug substance Consumed | released 1.3 2.7 1.8 2.6
freezing. The new units use 15% less energy than the
* Global inventory including Chugai, Genentech and Ventana
previous ones, leading to estimated annual electrical
savings of 17,600 kWh, USD 2,280 in utility cost and
a reduction of 13.1 tonnes of carbon dioxide.Environment | Roche
81
The production of pharmaceuticals and diagnostic products at a site such as Penzberg, Germany, would not be possible without clean water.
CO -equivalent emissions in tonnes
2
2017 2016 2015 2014
Scope 1
Fuel combustion 291,850 319,538 379,457 356,348
Halogenated hydrocarbons 3,469 6,463 4,964 6,234
Scope 2
Pre-2015 376,159
Market-based 270,123 320,860 322,046 * –
Location-based 343,711 403,924 408,078* –
Total (Scope 1 and Market-based) 565,442 646,861 706,467 * 738,741
Scope 3
Business flights 203,814 209,660 204,179 189,714
Energy-intensive utilities** 9,081 15,170 20,064 –
Waste 66,522 63,560 – –
* Due to changes in reporting methodology, this number is different to that reported in 2015. | ** Compressed air and liquid nitrogen82
Reducing waste
Safeguarding the ecosystem
We aim to implement the following waste management Chemical waste (incinerated and landfilled)
strategy in all our activities: avoid, reduce, reuse, recycle decreased by approximately 21% in 2017. In parallel,
and thermally destroy. We permit landfilling only as however, the weight of contaminated soil, from
a last resort and, even then, only for inert materials remediation activities at Grenzach, Germany, as well
such as slag or ashes. as environmental-related activities at our site in South
San Francisco, US, increased by approximately 98%.
We only discharge wastewater and pollutants if These one-off activities contributed approximately
they comply fully with relevant regulations, including 86% of the 126,011 tonnes.
pre-treatment requirements. At above 90%, the
elimination rates in our wastewater treatment plants Good ideas do not go to waste
are already high. There are various innovative activities underway at
our sites to help reach our goals, and often these ideas
Using 2015 as a baseline, our aim is to reduce general come from within the organisation. One example is
waste per employee by 10% by 2020. In 2017, this at Roche’s packaging plant in Kaiseraugst, Switzerland,
performance indicator increased by approximately where syringes prefilled with medicines are among
4.6% compared to 2015. The reason for this increase the products packed. Any rejected prefilled syringes
is likely to be awareness campaigns aimed at an cannot be repacked, and this means the medicine
improved reporting under this category. must be discarded as chemical waste.
Landfilled and incinerated waste in tonnes Employees worked with the manufacturer of the
packaging machine to find a way to reintroduce the
2017 2016 2015 2014 rejected syringes into the packaging process. The
General waste result is an annual saving of almost CHF 6 million
generated 12,478 12,498 26,314 16,730 and a significant reduction in chemical waste.
Chemical waste
generated 17,245 21,906 25,742 27,142
Contaminated soil 108,766 54,937 –* –*
Construction waste 16,189 12,804 8,223 15,064
* Prior to 2016 this data was not collected separately.Environment | Roche
83
Our first goal is to safeguard the
Roche’s Genentech site in South San Francisco
collaborated with the City of South San Francisco
ecosystem while protecting our business
and the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to
reassess whether specific streams of wastewater from
against long-term risks.
biotechnology production processes that required
collection could instead be sent to the city’s wastewater
treatment plant.
Mexico, China and Iran were hosted at a former
Based on the studies performed by the EPA, it was landfill in Grenzach-Wyhlen, Germany. Showing
concluded that these wastewater streams will not our remediation approach to young scientists is a way
adversely affect the city’s wastewater treatment to share best practice and ensure it is implemented
operations. elsewhere.
Following this collaboration, the South San Francisco Pharmaceuticals in the environment
site was able to reduce the 2017 wastewater volume Traces of pharmaceutical products can enter the
collected from 246 m3 to 60 m3 lessening CO emissions environment in a variety of ways, including via the
2
from transportation and off-site treatment. This change manufacturing process, improper disposal of unused
reduces the disposal cost by almost USD 200,000 medicines and through natural metabolic processes
per year. following normal patient use.
Sharing our knowledge, investing in the future Roche is acting on concerns about the impact of
Switzerland is at the forefront of efforts in pharmaceuticals on the environment by considering
environmental protection due to its long history and the entire lifecycle of its products.
broad experience of coping with environmental
pollution issues. MabThera/Rituxan, Herceptin, Avastin, Perjeta and
Lucentis are monoclonal antibodies which generated
In 2017, the 14th International Conference on the CHF 24.7 billion in sales in 2017. They belong to a
Biogeochemistry of Trace Elements (ICOBTE) was held defined class of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs)
in Zurich, and we partnered with ETH Zurich, the exempt from the European Medicines Evaluation
internationally top-ranking university in Switzerland, Agency guideline on environmental risk assessment.
to enable ten PhD students and postdoctoral scientists They have a low excretion rate and are judged to
from different countries to attend. We also sponsored present no significant risk to sewage works and surface
a technical excursion for conference participants to waters. They are therefore termed ‘benign in nature’
learn about corporate responsibility and our innovative and constitute environmentally sustainable compounds.
approach towards remediating a former landfill. All of our chemical products are, however, subject to
a rigorous environmental risk assessment.
About 20 young scientists from countries including
India, Brazil, Russia, Chile, Japan, Poland, Pakistan,84Environment | Roche
85
Ben Fu, Roche, China
“Our engagement will lead to a sustainable
contribution to the local community.”
I am an environmental engineer and work as the Water-efficient taps and showerheads, as well as
Safety, Health and Environmental Officer at the new carefully planned landscaping, reduce overall water
Roche Diagnostics manufacturing site in Suzhou, near consumption. Wastewater from our production is
Shanghai. When fully operational in 2018, our plant treated and reused for other purposes.
will produce high-quality reagents and immunoassays
for laboratories, hospitals and doctors’ surgeries. This Thanks to our comprehensive approach in Suzhou,
will contribute to improving healthcare for patients we aim to achieve the Leadership in Energy and
in China and help us to supply our products to other Environ mental Design (LEED) Platinum certificate—
Asian countries. the highest environmental standard from the US Green
Building Council—for our administration building.
But we need to look at more than just production, and
ensure a safe environment for those working on site, My colleagues and I feel proud and energised to be
as well as for the neighbourhood in general. During the part of the team building this new site, which will
construction of the site, our engineering teams have have a beneficial impact on patients, shape our
put safety first. In the course of over six million hours environment in a positive way and enhance our
of work, we had no serious accident that needed to be reputation in China. Our engagement will lead to a
recorded. This is due in part to a ‘SpeakUp’ culture that sustainable contribution to the local community.
encourages workers to point out potential safety issues.
As part of my job, I take a holistic approach to safe-
Achieving the highest standards for sustainability guarding the health of our employees. This includes a
From the outset, our 48,000 m2 manufacturing site in programme to deal with air pollution. Our air quality
Suzhou was designed to meet the highest environmental guidelines are an accurate information source;
standards. To reduce energy consumption, we have employees can check the air quality via the popular
installed thicker insulation than is legally required, social app WeChat. Air purifiers are installed in all
solar-protective glazing and fixed window shadings. offices and financial support is offered to employees
Decentralised air conditioning switches off when not who buy them for home use. Air filtration masks are
used and efficient LED lighting shuts off when no one available at no charge.
is present. Photovoltaic panels on the roofs produce
enough electricity from sunlight to cover 78% of the I don’t yet have a family. But someday, if my child
energy needs of the administration building —or enough asks me about my job, I will say: “Look at the sky. It
to power almost 500 private homes for an entire year. used to be grey. Your father is helping to keep it blue.”86Community engagement | Roche
87
Community
e ngage me nt
We foster innovative philanthropy that makes a
long-term, sustainable difference to communities
around the world.
Material topics covered in this chapter
• Community engagement
Contribution to the UN SDGs88
A
t Roche, our common purpose is to make a difference to the
lives of patients and their families, and to society at large.
Our global and local philanthropic efforts have It is the local impact that matters most, whether we
one common focus: strengthening communities to support the potential of individuals and organisations,
make a long-term, sustainable difference through strengthen local communities or form strategic
innovative interventions. partnerships that can make a difference.
We aim to build stronger communities and Strengthening local communities
environments by partnering with local authorities Strengthening the communities in which we operate—
and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) whether through infrastructure support, training or
while respecting local customs and needs. We education—is an important part of Roche’s responsibility
engage our employees where appropriate through as a global citizen. Our ‘thinking globally and acting
skills-based volunteering and capacity-building locally’ perspective is best exemplified by the annual
projects inspired by our long, deeply-embedded Roche Children’s Walk. In 2017, 145 company sites
history of philanthropy. in 70 countries came together to donate funds for
children’s education and health initiatives. Employees
Our approach has been recognised externally. raise money individually and the company matches
In 2017, we achieved the maximum score of 100 all funds raised for the campaign.
on Corporate Citizenship & Philanthropy in
the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, the gold Since the first company-wide walk in 2003, more than
standard measure for corporate sustainability. 200,000 Roche employees have participated and raised
This compares to an industry average of 54. more than CHF 17 million in total. We are very proud
Additionally, our philanthropic activities support that in 2017, more than 100 global children’s projects
nine of the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals. were directly supported through this initiative.Community engagement | Roche
89
The annual Roche Children’s Walk is our biggest employee fund-raising project. All money raised is doubled by the company and used for children’s programmes
supporting education, health or social development around the world. The picture above shows Roche ambassadors visiting such a project in Malawi.
One example of a local project that has benefitted and meals, the centre provides psychological support,
from the funds raised during the walk is the Roche counselling and basic skills training to family members
Children’s Centre in Mumbai, India. Roche Pharma and the children. This is not just a place where children
India partnered with the not-for-profit organisation recover from cancer, but a place where everyone can
St Jude India ChildCare Centres to facilitate this learn a new way of life that will hold them in good
social initiative, providing holistic care to children stead for the future.
with cancer. This is an important effort as there are
about 70,000 children living with cancer in India
Strengthening the communities in
and only a few receive proper treatment.
which we operate is an important part of
The centre offers families from remote areas of India a
free place to stay while their child receives treatment.
Roche’s responsibility as a global citizen.
In addition to helping with accommodation, transport90
Students from 19 countries worked on the theme of ‘Fostering the next entrepreneur’. Hosted by the International Swiss Talent Forum, this event provides a platform for
students to exchange their views and learn from each other.
Supporting potential the founding sponsor for the organisation’s signature
We also believe that supporting the potential of think tank programme, the International Swiss Talent
individuals or initiatives at the right time can have Forum, which brings together 70 motivated young
a tremendous long-term impact. Roche encourages people from around the world to address current
future leaders and innovators to reach their potential global issues. In 2017, the Forum hosted students from
by supporting scholarship programmes, empowering 19 nations and focused on the theme of ‘Fostering the
organisations, employee volunteer programmes and next entrepreneur’.
science engagement initiatives.
To contribute to the good partnership, Roche provides
An example of one of Roche’s longer partnerships Schweizer Jugend forscht with support on practical
in this area is the collaboration with Schweizer matters. One of our employees completed a skills-
Jugend forscht (Swiss Youth in Science), a 50-year-old based volunteering assignment with the foundation,
foundation that focuses on identifying potential in providing pro bono consulting advice on business
young scientists and inspiring innovation. Roche was and marketing process improvements.Community engagement | Roche
91
Partnering to make a difference developing countries. These volunteering programmes
Making a sustainable difference entails partnering with combine the capabilities and skills of Roche and its
communities, NGOs and local authorities on initiatives employees with those of NGOs to build capacity,
that address local needs and capacity-building. deliver sustainable outputs and escalate impact. Roche
offers short- and long-term volunteering programmes.
As a long-term supporter of the International For the short-term ‘micro-secondment’ programme,
Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and founding NGO partners request temporary, skill-specific
member of its Corporate Support Group, Roche has consultative support for health- or education-related
contributed to water and habitat activities in several assignments.
countries, including Pakistan, Ethiopia, Liberia,
Uganda, Burundi, Eritrea, Guinea and Mali. These Roche has collaborated with a variety of organisations
activities aim to ensure that people affected by armed for pro bono skills-sharing assignments, including
conflict have access to clean water, proper sanitation the ICRC, Schweizer Jugend forscht, B360 Education
and sustainable living environments. Partnerships and Medicines for Malaria Venture
(MMV). Roche paired MMV, a foundation focused
In 2017, Roche contributed to ICRC projects in on antimalarial drug development, with one of our
Mali that aim to improve access to clean water for procurement experts when the foundation wanted
over 630,000 people. These projects built and upgraded to expand its knowledge and capacity in the area of
water supply systems in violence-affected communities academic-research organisation collaborations to
for personal consumption, for livestock and for accelerate drug research.
agricultural use.
Besides Roche’s support for global organisations,
We believe supporting the potential of
we believe in partnerships between our employees,
NGOs and local communities to share knowledge
individuals or initiatives at the right time
and individual skills. To this end, we offer skills-based
volunteering programmes for employees to work with
can have tremendous long-term impact.
NGOs to help improve health and education in92Community engagement | Roche
93
Belinda Holdsworth, Roche, Switzerland
“I was there to teach, but I also learned
a lot from them.”
I have always been interested in engineering, which led faces of students who were very eager to learn. I used
me to study biochemical engineering at university. After an interactive, hands-on and practical approach in
graduation, I started my career as a process engineer, but my classes. Simulations and group activities helped
quickly moved into commissioning and qualification me to teach fundamental principles of supply chain
of pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities. Having management, LEAN manufacturing and teamwork.
joined Roche in 2013, I am now the Operational Site
Manager for a contract manufacturer located in France. I presented the case study of the ‘dabbawallas’, who
I hold overall responsibility for all production activities supply hot lunches to workers in India using a low-tech,
at the site and lead a team of technical experts. but incredibly reliable supply chain. This case study
was part of my MBA, so I thought I knew it inside out.
I am always looking for new challenges outside my But the students raised questions and offered insights
comfort zone. At the end of 2016, I learned of a skills- I had never considered. I was there to teach, but I also
based secondment programme managed by Roche learned a lot from them.
Corporate Donations and Philanthropy, for which I
applied. This programme offers NGOs the opportunity It brought home to me the importance of diverse ways of
to submit a request for short-term, skill-specific support thinking to solve problems. Diversity is another one of
for health- or education-related assignments. my passions. I lead the EU division of Pharma Technical
Women Professionals, a grass-roots initiative at Roche
I was selected for a micro-secondment assignment which that fosters the professional development of women.
was organised in cooperation with B360 Educational
Partnerships. For almost three weeks, I was a visiting Looking back, I think about the enthusiasm of and
lecturer on operations and supply chain topics at the positive feedback from the students. It gives me the
Namibia University of Science and Technology in feeling that I inspired them in their studies and,
Windhoek. I love Africa—the natural beauty, the friendly hopefully, in their future careers. On my final day of
people, the special energy. But being a tourist is different teaching, the students presented me with a gift: a small
from going there to work on a short-term assignment. chair that symbolised I had a place in Africa. It wrapped
up my experience in a beautiful and touching way.
Problem-solving from many different perspectives
Since I had never taught a class before, I was a little I would strongly recommend this volunteering
nervous on my first day as a visiting lecturer. That experience to others who want to share their skills
feeling quickly disappeared when I saw the friendly and see the impact each one of us can make.94Integrity in business | Roche
95
Integ r ity
in bu sine s s
Integrity is a compass that guides us in every aspect
of our business behaviour and allows us to fulfil our
purpose of serving patients.
Material topics covered in this chapter
• Compliance
• Drug efficacy and safety
• Patient organisation support
• Supply chain management
• Occupational accidents
Contribution to the UN SDGs96
W
hat is ‘compliance’? In a very general sense, it means
adhering to rules and regulations. At Roche, however,
it goes much deeper.
Compliance means internalising not only the letter their work. When there are grey areas or questions
but, first and foremost, the spirit of the law as part regarding conflicts of interest, improper advantages,
of our daily behaviour, thereby making it impact- discrimination or harassment, the first point of
oriented. It means moving from a formal concept of contact is the line manager. In a recently launched
‘ticking the boxes’ to a way of doing business where course for compliance officers, we aim to translate
integrity matters at every level. It is our licence to formal guidelines into business- integrated compliance.
operate from society and it is essential to our efforts This creates a positive impact on business practice.
in delivering innovative products to patients. Our objective is to build a common understanding on
Roche’s comprehensive Compliance Management
Putting our Group Code of Conduct into practice System.
These compliance guidelines are documented in
the Roche Group Code of Conduct. They come to Roche has dedicated regional and local compliance
life in decisions that employees make every day in officers in affiliates around the world who work with
our Chief Compliance Officer to keep integrity top
of mind. In Poland, for example, the local compliance
officer translates her passion for her job into helping
colleagues understand why the topic is essential for
Compliance Roche. The selection of external distributors, for
instance, is based on ethical and sustainability criteria
that are integrated into business decisions in Poland.
In 2017, a total of 176 employees used the Roche Group SpeakUp
Line, which is available in 53 languages in 103 countries. The Chief Transparency vis-à-vis healthcare stakeholders
Compliance Officer received 685 reports relating to alleged Roche strives for mutually beneficial partnerships with
violations of the Code of Conduct via the Business Ethics Incident diverse groups that interact with patients to advance
Reporting system. Of these incidents, 292 were unfounded, 102 are access and improve quality of care. Our Patient Group
still under investigation and 291 were substantiated. As a result, Council ensures that the patient voice is integrated
131 employment contracts and 4 agreements with business partners across the entire lifecycle of our medicines. Patients
were terminated on the grounds of unethical behaviour. help us understand their personal experiences andIntegrity in business | Roche
97
the challenges posed by their disease. This provides us
with invaluable insights which help us to improve our
product development and clinical trial programmes.
A dialogue with physicians is essential to increase our
knowledge about the effectiveness and safety of our
current therapies and diagnostics and also to prioritise
our discovery efforts. In accordance with industry
guidelines, we make details of our interactions with
patient organisations public. We have strengthened
the internal control and verification processes in
our interactions with healthcare professionals and
organisations. In addition, we have also developed
guidance for affiliates on how to communicate about
the impact of healthcare contributions in a transparent
way. These contributions to healthcare stakeholders We maintain high marketing standards while engaging with healthcare professionals.
are published online (see link).
As rules around ethical business practices become
more and more complex, it is difficult for employees reported promptly to the appropriate regulatory
to keep an overview. The compliance officer in Roche authorities. All Roche employees are required to
Belgium tackled this challenge by creating a document report any drug safety or quality issue immediately
using simple icons for common topics such as and to complete annual awareness training on adverse
educational grants, promotional events or meetings event reporting.
with healthcare practitioners. Employees can click on
an icon and are connected to an internal repository, Embedding human rights in our business
where they can see key compliance criteria, approval Roche is fully committed to supporting and respecting
workflow and required forms. A condensed version human rights within our sphere of influence. This
has also been created specifically for use by sales includes labour rights and freedom of association.
representatives. We have established a methodology to strengthen
human rights in the risk assessment of our relevant Healthcare
Roche’s Safety Risk Management Department suppliers and service providers. This way we further contributions:
systematically monitors all Roche medicines increase transparency along the supply chain. Based roche.com/
worldwide. When patients suffer side effects, these on impact assessments of our operations, we integrate performance.
adverse events are captured in a global database and findings into our internal business functions. htm?tab_id=tab298
Ensuring business continuity
Improving operational resilience
Our data show that Roche continues to have a solid Employee health and safety
track record in key health and safety performance
indicators. We also help employees stay safe in their 0.066
0.052 0.064 0.048
private lives with campaigns such as increasing night
visibility and preparing for home emergencies. In
addition, we have established a threat assessment 373 393 400
348
team and process at Roche Basel for employees who
have security concerns at their workplace or at home. 6,396
6,298
4,976 4,828
In 2017, site security officers from all Western
European sites discussed measures to protect our 2014 2015 2016 2017
logistics network and our intellectual property, as Accident rate Number of work-related accidents
well as training in adequate security measures for Working days lost per year due to accidents
sales and marketing organisations.
Ensuring quality in manufacturing
Mental wellbeing in the workplace Pharmaceuticals and diagnostics are among the most
When employees are engaged and able to cope with highly regulated industries. In addition to regulations
the challenges of their work, they perform better and from the FDA and EMA, most countries have their
are happier overall. For this reason, Roche began to own requirements. Staying aligned with these ever-
implement mandatory workplace mental health risk changing regulations requires precise communication,
assessments at all affiliates in 2014. The emphasis is on planning and execution on a global scale, as well as
preventing burnout, depression or other mental issues training. Highly qualified technicians who prepare
through early identification of the problem. Some sites medicines in sterile rooms need special certification.
screen employees with questionnaires while others hold Like aeroplane pilots, these technicians must work a
discussions in small groups. When someone at risk is certain number of hours per year and take tests to
identified, there are in-depth discussions with managers ensure they maintain a high standard.
or external experts. Some sites also offer a 24-hour
helpline that employees can call anonymously. In 2017, In Pharma Technical Operations alone, 3,200 people
audits on mental health protection began at Roche work in Quality and Compliance at 15 sites around the
sites around the world and the resulting best practices world. This includes internal auditors who regularly
are now being shared among affiliates. inspect our manufacturing sites to ensure adherenceIntegrity in business | Roche
99
to Roche quality standards, which are often tougher personal data. This refers to personal data of all
than those required by the law. In 2016, we launched potential Roche stakeholders including employees
a project in collaboration with the FDA to ensure and patients. To ensure that we adhere to the stricter
inspection readiness, with workstreams in production regulations, we are embedding data privacy governance
system, facilities and equipment, quality and laboratory in the business, and will develop training modules
system and materials management. Our ongoing for all employees. When developing medicines, we
efforts include speeding up corrective and preventive tap into huge amounts of patient data and genomic
actions when issues are identified. information. We can only get access to that valuable
information as long as we continue to uphold the
At Roche, we have different manufacturing sources trust placed in us by always protecting and respecting
to supply products in the event of natural disasters the individual’s privacy when we process and use
or other unforeseeable events. We use our own personal data.
manufacturing sites at an appropriate capacity level,
and have contract manufacturing sites that can cover
emergencies or sudden increases in demand. We
also maintain safety stockpiles of products and raw
General managers lead compliance
materials and have back-up equipment set up. This
helps when we need to deliver a life-saving medicine
or a crucial diagnostic test in an emergency.
In Roche’s decentralised structure, the general managers (GM)
Safeguarding data for personalised healthcare in the affiliates play a very important role and are ultimately
Data privacy is a fundamental human right. That is responsible for compliance. In Brazil, for example, the GM works
why protection and responsible use of personal data with the local compliance officer to ensure that every employee is
is anchored in the Roche Group Code of Conduct and adequately trained and feels comfortable asking questions. The
reflected in our daily operations. In response to the GM regularly reviews compliance cases at management meetings,
European Union’s new comprehensive General Data asking his direct reports: “What would you do?” He leads by
Protection Regulation, which comes into effect in May example by showing that Roche is not interested in unethical
2018, Roche has embarked on a company-wide project business deals and has zero tolerance for employees who cross the
to meet the more detailed requirements, including line of non-compliant behaviour. There is a clear message to
documentation and assessment of the processing of everyone: Compliance is good business.100
Developing lasting partnerships
Fostering engagement
Roche depends on a network of about 1,000 business- Because we see our suppliers and service providers
critical suppliers and service providers. In addition as partners, we go beyond the standard concept of
to ensuring compliance with quality standards, we audits by conducting ‘supplier sustainability assurance
also expect them to adhere to high principles for visits’. Our assurance visits aim to build trust and add
ethics, labour, environment, health and safety and value—in contrast to conventional audits that are often
management systems, as well as mitigate risk and seen as policing acts. In 2017, we made 156 visits, at
ensure business continuity. These principles are least one every second working day, around the world.
covered in detail in our Roche Supplier Code of
Conduct, which all suppliers and service providers Constructive engagement with governments
are required to adhere to. Roche wants to make its voice heard to inform public
discussion on healthcare. Our aim is to help advance
the regulatory framework in healthcare and ensure the
sustainable development of our industry. We actively
engage in public discussions through our memberships
Engaging with political institutions
in trade and industry associations such as EFPIA,
MedTech Europe and BIO. Our Government Affairs
teams in the US and the EU advocates for policies that
Roche remains independent of any political affiliation. When we do will ensure that patients have access to the medicines
support associations and political institutions, we are transparent and diagnostic tools they need. Our goal is to inform
in our dealings. In Switzerland, we spent CHF 8.8 million in 2017, lawmakers, policymakers and advocacy organisations
which includes payments to industry associations and various on the potential impact of policies on biomedical
chambers of commerce, financial assistance to trade unions, and innovation and the patients we serve. All Roche
donations to political parties at the cantonal and federal level. employees involved in lobbying efforts must comply
Donations to political parties are each in the low double-digit with applicable laws and regulations. In the EU, the
thousand range in Swiss francs, and together accounted for amount of funding for policy-related activities is
approximately 3% of total contributions and donations. documented in the EU Transparency Register (see link).
In the US, our lobbying expenditure on federal
initiatives in 2017 was approximately USD 4.0 million.Integrity in business | Roche
101
In addition, Genentech’s Political Action Committee
and Roche’s Good Government Committee allow
Recognition for business ethics
employees to have a voice in encouraging the election
of legislators. They are funded solely by voluntary in Mexico
employee contributions and governed by an independent
board. In 2017, we contributed approximately
USD 430,500 to federal political candidates in a The Confederation of Industrial Chambers of the United Mexican
bipartisan manner. States has awarded Roche Mexico the 2017 ‘Ethics and Values
Award’. The purpose of the award is to highlight best practices in
Accelerating access to treatment ethical business. More than 500 companies from different sectors
At a time when government healthcare budgets are were assessed in 2017. Roche Mexico was the only multinational
increasingly stretched, health technology assessment company in the pharmaceutical industry to receive this recognition.
(HTA) is an important tool for policymakers in
weighing evidence about clinical effectiveness, safety
and cost-effectiveness of therapies approved by
regulatory agencies. EUnetHTA was established to
create a network for HTA across Europe, including
a homogenous approach on relative effectiveness
assessment. Currently, there are over 60 HTA national has acted as a trusted partner, for example, with the
and regional bodies in Europe—each using different FDA by participating as an industry representative
criteria—which potentially slows down access to during the drafting of the newest iteration of the
newly approved medicines. Prescription Drug User Fee Act—the key source of
funding for the medicine review process. In addition,
Roche is now collaborating with EUnetHTA on a Roche is working with the FDA to foster greater focus
pilot in which one HTA body is authorised to do a on developing therapies for children with cancer.
relative effectiveness assessment and then shares the
report with other HTA bodies—avoiding duplication In Europe, direct interactions with the EMA take
of effort. The pilot study will focus on our lung cancer place, for example, through scientific advice and
medicine Alecensa. The pilot will help Roche learn the EU’s Priority Medicines (PRIME) scheme,
more about local and regional needs in the HTA which supports accelerated regulatory approvals. EU Transparency
process and how to achieve greater harmonisation Roche actively fosters public-private exchanges of Register:
and mitigate redundancies to speed up access. information through the Innovative Medicines ec.europa.eu/
Initiative (IMI) and EFPIA, or as a member of the transparencyregister/
Collaborating with regulatory agencies Drug Information Association, and will co-chair a public/consultation/
Members of our development and regulatory teams meeting in 2018 in Basel focusing on collaboration displaylobbyist.
work closely with agencies around the world. Roche between regulators, HTA bodies and payers. do?id=18940431725-51102Integrity in business | Roche
103
Funke Abimbola, Roche, UK
“I compare my role in compliance to that
of being an orchestra conductor.”
I am a British citizen of Nigerian descent. I come from listen for the occasional notes that are out of key,
a family where both my parents, three of my siblings make individuals aware of it and take corrective
as well as several uncles and cousins are all physicians. action when needed.
So when I decided on a career in law, there was a lot of
convincing to do. From the age of 10, I was determined Compliance is crucial to protecting our reputation.
to become a lawyer because of the opportunities it Patients need to know our products meet the standards
offered for achieving social justice. that we profess. Physicians need to be convinced they
can rely on us when a patient’s life is at stake. Regulatory
With the support of my family, I attended a top UK and reimbursement authorities need assurance that
university. After graduating with an honours law degree we are transparent and act in good faith. Only then
in 1994, there was a rude awakening: I couldn’t find a can we conduct our business upholding high levels of
job because of discrimination due to my race. I managed integrity and make a sustained contribution to society
to find a position within a respected in-house legal that is not just measured in sales figures.
team. But there was another shock when I returned
from maternity leave. The London firm I worked for Outside my work, I spend a great deal of time speaking
still expected very long hours that were impossible for to young people across Britain about difficulties in my
a working mother. I left London to work in a regional career and how they too can overcome barriers. I also
firm with regular working hours. share my story with senior leaders—from members
of parliament to chief executives—and suggest ways
Embedding compliance into our daily work they can get involved in ‘levelling the playing field’ by
I joined Roche in 2012. For us, compliance means advancing equality. I am proud that my son, now 14,
respecting the spirit as well as the letter of the laws has been recognised at school for his leadership in
governing our industry. It has different implications supporting others and championing equality.
for people in diverse jobs such as research, clinical
development or sales. Proactive communication about In 2017, I was stunned and humbled by the news
making the right decisions in relevant compliance that I had been awarded a Queen’s Honour and
situations is so important. appointed as a Member of the Most Excellent Order
of the British Empire (MBE) for my equality work and
I often compare my role in compliance to that of being helping young people reach their potential. This has
an orchestra conductor. Most of the time, our people opened new doors for me to positively impact many
are in sync and playing harmoniously. My job is to more people.104Corporate Governance | Roche
105
Cor porate
Gove r nance106
Principles
Roche’s corporate governance principles put the focus corporate governance requirements, in particular
of its business activities on sustainable value creation with all applicable laws, the Swiss Stock Exchange
and innovation and prescribe a management culture (SIX Swiss Exchange) directives and the Swiss Code of
conforming to recognised standards of good corporate Best Practice for Corporate Governance promulgated
governance and a policy of transparent communication. by the Swiss business federation ‘economiesuisse’. The
These principles build the basis for the successful company’s internal governance framework, particularly
implementation of Roche’s commitment to serving all its Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, embodies
its stakeholders. all the principles needed to ensure that the company’s
businesses are managed and supervised in a manner
A strong Board of Directors, which represents the consistent with good corporate governance, including
interests of the shareholders and all other stakeholders, the necessary checks and balances.1
and highly skilled managers that act with integrity are
extremely important. The printed Annual Report contains selected links
to the Roche website (www.roche.com). Readers are
In 2017, for the 9th consecutive year, Roche has been thus provided not only with a ‘snapshot’ of our
recognised by the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices company at the reporting date but are also directed
as the Group Leader in sustainability within the to sources which they can consult at any time for
pharmaceuticals, biotechnology and life sciences up-to-date information about corporate governance
industry. Sustainability is at the core of our business at Roche. Whereas each annual report covers a single
practices and this award reflects our commitment to financial year ending 31 December, our website
running our business in a way that is ethical, responsible contains information of a more permanent nature, as
and creates long-term value for stakeholders. well as the latest Roche news. The company’s Articles
of Incorporation, Bylaws and the curricula vitae of the
This Corporate Governance Report sets out the members of the Board of Directors and the Corporate
structures, processes and rules which Roche takes as Executive Committee are published on our website.
the basis for well-functioning corporate governance.
In doing so, Roche complies with all relevant For further details please refer to the following report.
Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting
Board of Directors
Board of Directors Board Committees
Presidium and Nomination Committee
and Board Committees
Remuneration Committee
Audit Committee
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
Corporate Executive Corporate Executive Committee
CEO CEO CEO General
Committee CFO HR
Roche Group Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Counsel
Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
Enlarged Corporate
gRED pRED Partnering Communications
Executive Committee Chugai
1 roche.com/governanceCorporate Governance | Roche
107
Board of Directors
At the 99th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of On 13 March 2018, at the forthcoming AGM the
Roche Holding Ltd, on 14 March 2017, shareholders Board of Directors nominates the Chairman and
re-elected Dr Christoph Franz as Chairman of the all remaining Members of the Board of Directors
Board of Directors. for re-election.
Furthermore, the AGM re-elected André Hoffmann, Moreover, the Board of Directors nominates
Prof. Sir John Bell, Julie Brown, Paul Bulcke, Prof. Dr Dr Christoph Franz, André Hoffmann,
Richard P. Lifton, Dr Andreas Oeri, Bernard Poussot, Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton, Bernard Poussot and
Dr Severin Schwan, Dr Claudia Suessmuth Dyckerhoff, Peter R. Voser for re-election as members of the
Peter R. Voser and elected Anita Hauser as a new Remuneration Committee by the AGM in 2018.
member of the Board of Directors for a term of one
year as provided by the Articles of Incorporation. As in the previous year, the Board of Directors
Prof. Dr Pius Baschera did not stand for re-election. nominates BDO AG as the independent proxy for the
period from 2018 until the conclusion of the 2019
In addition, the AGM elected Dr Christoph Franz, ordinary Annual General Meeting of Shareholders
André Hoffmann, Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton, Bernard for election by the AGM.
Poussot and Peter R. Voser as members of the
Remuneration Committee.
At its organising meeting immediately following the
AGM, the Board of Directors has determined the
structure and composition of its remaining committees
as shown below (see also pages 14 to 15 and page 111
‘Board of Directors and Corporate Executive
Committee’).
Composition as at 31.12.2017 Name (year of birth) First elected
Board of Directors Dr Christoph Franz (1960) C, D *, E Chairman 2011
André Hoffmann (1958) (representative of the A, C *, D, E Vice-Chairman 1996
shareholder group with pooled voting rights)
Dr Andreas Oeri (1949) (representative of the A *, E 1996
shareholder group with pooled voting rights)
Prof. Sir John Bell (1952) B, E 2001
Julie Brown (1962) B*, E 2016
Paul Bulcke (1954) B, E 2011
Anita Hauser (1969) A, E 2017
Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton (1953) C, E 2015
Bernard Poussot (1952) C, E 2015
Dr Severin Schwan (1967) F 2013
Dr Claudia Suessmuth Dyckerhoff (1967) A, B, E 2016
Peter R. Voser (1958) C, E 2011
Secretary to the Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954)
Board of Directors
Honorary Chairman Dr Fritz Gerber (1929)
of the Board of Directors
A Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee B Audit Committee C Remuneration Committee
D Presidium/Nomination Committee E Non-executive director F Executive director
* Committee chairperson108
Corporate Executive Committee
All memberships of the Corporate Executive
Committee remained unchanged in 2017.
Information on each member of the Corporate
Executive Committee and of the Enlarged Corporate
Executive Committee is listed below (see also pages 18
to 19 and page 111 ‘Board of Directors and Corporate
Executive Committee’).
Composition as at 31.12.2017 Name (year of birth) Position Since
Corporate Executive Dr Severin Schwan (1967) CEO of the Roche Group 2008
Committee Daniel O’Day (1964) CEO Roche Pharmaceuticals 2010
Roland Diggelmann (1967) CEO Roche Diagnostics 2012
Dr Alan Hippe (1967) Chief Financial and IT Officer 2011
Cristina A. Wilbur (1967) Head Group Human Resources 2016
Dr Gottlieb A. Keller (1954) General Counsel 2003
Enlarged Corporate Osamu Nagayama (1947) Chairman and CEO Chugai 2006
Executive Committee Dr Michael D. Varney (1958) Head Genentech Research and 2015
Early Development (gRED)
Prof. Dr John C. Reed (1958) Head Roche Pharma Research and 2013
Early Development (pRED)
Dr Stephan Feldhaus (1962) Head Group Communications 2010
Dr Sophie Kornowski-Bonnet (1963) Head Roche Partnering 2012
Secretary to the Corporate Per-Olof Attinger (1960)
Executive Committee
Statutory Auditors KPMG Klynveld Peat Marwick Goerdeler SA (reporting years 2004–2008)
of Roche Holding Ltd KPMG AG (since 2009)
Auditor in charge: John A. Morris (2004–2010)
Ian Starkey (since 2011)
Mark Baillache (as of business year 2018)
Chief Compliance Officer Dr Urs Jaisli (1956)
Corporate Executive Corporate Executive Committee
CEO CEO CEO General
Committee CFO HR
Roche Group Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Counsel
Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
Enlarged Corporate
gRED pRED Partnering Communications
Executive Committee ChugaiCorporate Governance | Roche
109
Group structure and shareholders
Roche’s operating businesses are organised into shareholders’ and ‘Related parties’, pages 83 and 111)
two divisions: Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics. The and in Note 4 to the Financial Statements of Roche
Pharmaceuticals Division comprises the two business Holding Ltd (‘Significant shareholders’, page 155). SIX Exchange
segments Roche Pharmaceuticals and Chugai, whereas In addition, significant shareholders are published Regulation:
Genentech as the former third segment has been on the relevant webpage of the disclosure office of six-exchange-
integrated into Roche Pharmaceuticals. The Diagnostics SIX Exchange Regulation. regulation.com/
Division consists of the following four business areas: significant-
Centralised and Point of Care Solutions (formerly André Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman of the Board shareholders
named Professional Diagnostics), Molecular of Directors and Chairman of the Remuneration
Diagnostics, Tissue Diagnostics and Diabetes Care. Committee, and Dr Andreas Oeri, member of the
Board of Directors and Chairman of the Board’s
Business activities are carried out through Group Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee,
subsidiaries and associated companies. Detailed serve in their respective capacities on the Board and
information on Roche Holding Ltd and on significant its committees as representatives of the shareholder
subsidiaries and associated companies (including group with pooled voting rights and receive the
company name, listing information, domicile, share remuneration set forth in the Remuneration Report
capital, and equity interest) is listed in the Finance on page 131 and in the Finance Report, Note 30 to
Report, Note 31 to the Roche Group Consolidated the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements
Financial Statements (‘List of subsidiaries and (‘Related parties’, page 111). With the exception of
associates’, page 113). Dr Jörg Duschmalé, who works as a post-doc at Roche,
no other relationships exist with the shareholders
Major shareholders are listed in the Finance Report, with pooled voting rights.
Notes 21 and 30 to the Roche Group Consolidated
Financial Statements (‘Equity attributable to Roche There are no cross-shareholdings.
Roche Pharmaceuticals (incl. Genentech)
Pharmaceuticals
Chugai
Centralised and Point of Care Solutions
Molecular Diagnostics
Diagnostics
Tissue Diagnostics
Diabetes Care
Composition as at 31.12.2017110
Capital structure
Information on Roche’s capital structure is provided in NES holders) are described in §4 of the Articles of
the Finance Report, Notes to the Financial Statements Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd.
of Roche Holding Ltd (page 154). Additional details
are contained in the Articles of Incorporation of Roche Information on debt instruments which have been
Holding Ltd. 2 issued and on outstanding bonds is provided in
the Finance Report, Note 20 to the Roche Group
Movement in recognised amounts during the last Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Debt’, page 78).
three financial years are detailed in the Finance
Report, Notes to the Financial Statements of Roche Information on employee stock options is provided
Holding Ltd (page 155). in the Finance Report, Note 26 to the Roche Group
Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Equity
The company has a share capital of CHF 160,000,000, compensation plans’, page 96), including detailed
divided into 160,000,000 fully paid bearer shares with information on the Stock-settled Stock Appreciation
a nominal value of CHF 1 each. There are no restrictions Rights (S-SARs) Plan, the Roche Restricted Stock Unit
on the exercise of the voting rights of these shares. Upon (RSU) Plan, the Roche Performance Share (PSP) Plan,
deposit, shares can be voted without any restrictions. Roche Connect and the Roche Option Plan.
There is no authorised or conditional capital. Roche has issued no options apart from employee
stock options as described in the Finance Report,
In addition, 702,562,700 non-voting equity securities Note 26 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial
(NES) have been issued in bearer form. They do not Statements (‘Equity compensation plans’, page 96) and
form part of the share capital and confer no voting options issued in connection with debt instruments.
rights. Each NES confers the same rights as one
share to participate in available earnings and in any Neither the options awarded to employees nor the
liquidation proceeds following repayment of the share debt instruments which have been issued have any
capital. Roche’s NES and the rights pertaining thereto effect on Roche’s share capital.
(including the provisions protecting the interests of
2 roche.com/article_of_incorporation
3 roche.com/board_of_directors and roche.com/executive_committee
4 roche.com/article_of_incorporation
5 roche.com/annual_general_meetings
6 roche.com/article_of_incorporation
7 roche.com/committees
8 roche.com/article_of_incorporationCorporate Governance | Roche
111
Board of Directors and Corporate
Executive Committee
Information on each member of the Board of Directors years preceeding the current reporting period and
and on each member of the Corporate Executive they are for lack of existing business connections
Committee is listed on pages 107 and 108. Members of with any Group subsidiary independent. Roche’s
the Board of Directors have no age limit or restriction Board of Directors’ independence definition is based
on their term of office. Curricula vitae of all current on the definition in the Swiss Code of Best Practice
and former members (of the last five years) of both for Corporate Governance of ‘economiesuisse’ and
bodies and other information (including information is complemented by specific preceding criteria
on the years of their first election as board members, (see roche.com/board_of_directors).
additional positions, memberships and activities) are
available and continuously updated on the Internet.3 The Principles of Governance (principles of delegation
and competence, reservation of powers and management
Rules pursuant to article 12 para. 1 point 1 VegüV of a group of companies) of the executive bodies of
on the number of permitted activities of the Board of the company include economic, environmental and
Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee social topics. The principles together with the internal
members are outlined in §22.4 of the Articles of organisation of the Board of Directors, the division of
Incorporation of Roche Holding Ltd.4 authority and responsibilities between the Board and
management, the remits of the Board Committees, and
Since 2014, the Annual General Meeting has elected the information and control mechanisms available to
all members of the Board of Directors, the Chairman the Board in its dealings with corporate management,
of the Board of Directors and the members of the are governed by the Bylaws.6
Remuneration Committee on an annual basis in
elections in which each nominee is voted on separately The Board of Directors of Roche Holding Ltd is
(see §18 of the Articles of Incorporation of Roche organised so as to ensure that the Group conducts its
Holding Ltd4 and the Minutes of the 99th Annual businesses responsibly and with a focus on long-term
General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, held on value creation. To this end, the Roche Board has
14 March 20175). delegated certain responsibilities to several committees.7
Their composition and chairpersons as at 31 December
With the exception of Dr Severin Schwan none of 2017 are described on page 107. Each committee’s
the members of the Board of Directors in office at the authorities and responsibilities are defined in detail in
end of 2017 has been a member of Roche’s Corporate the Bylaws of the Board of Directors.8
Executive Committee or served in an executive capacity
at any Group subsidiary during the five financial All the committees are chaired by independent directors.
Board of Directors
Board of Directors Board Committees
Presidium and Nomination Committee
and Board Committees
Remuneration Committee
Audit Committee
Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
Corporate Executive Corporate Executive Committee
Committee112
According to the Bylaws of the Board of Directors, a auditors, with findings presented to the Audit
Board meeting may be convened without the Chairman Committee and the full Board. For details on risk
present at the request of any of its members. The Roche management, including risk factors and the Risk
Board meets once a year to assess the Chairman’s Management Policy see ‘Risk Management’ on our
performance. This meeting, which is not attended by website.9 Financial risk management is specifically
the Chairman, is chaired by the Vice-Chairman. described in the Finance Report.10
• System of internal controls over financial reporting
As part of the Management Information System (MIS), (see pages 127 and 136 of the Finance Report)
the Board of Directors is regularly informed about • Internal audit
the most important issues, sales performance etc. The Group Audit reports to the General Counsel, has
Board has access to an electronic information platform direct access and gives regular briefings to the Audit
which provides timely information to the Board of Committee and to the Corporate Governance and
Directors and the Board’s committees as does the Sustainability Committee about ongoing activities
system of controls as set forth below. and audit reports. The Chief Audit & Risk Advisory
Executive attends the Audit Committee and partly
The Board of Directors has established a system of the Corporate Governance and Sustainability
controls which is continuously monitored by the Committee meetings, as do the external auditors.
Audit Committee, by the Corporate Governance Group Audit is an independent appraisal function
and Sustainability Committee and by the Board of which evaluates and reviews the Group’s activities as
Directors and consists of the following elements: a service to management. The annual audit plan with
• Report on operating and financial risks (risk yearly defined focus areas (eg, market access, third-
management system) party management) is validated by Senior Management
The Roche Group has established a risk management and presented to the Audit Committee. The Roche
process covering the entire company with a system Group is committed to maintaining a high standard
in place to identify and manage all type of risks of internal control throughout its worldwide
potentially affecting its business (including economic, operations. Management is responsible for assessing
environmental and social impacts, risks and the business risks in all aspects of its operation and
opportunities and containing stakeholder input). for implementing effective and efficient processes and
The Board of Directors is the highest governance controls whilst ensuring compliance with internal
body involved. Roche’s Risk Management Policy sets and external rules and regulations.
out the approach and accompanying responsibilities. By conducting operational audits, Group Audit
The Pharmaceuticals and Diagnostics Divisions and determines management’s response to the risks
global functions conduct a formal risk assessment surrounding business processes and systems, and
process at least once a year and must develop risk evaluates the appropriateness, completeness and
plans for their most material risks. These are efficiency of the processes and controls. Action plans
monitored and deviations reviewed in regular to implement necessary changes and enhancements
performance dialogues. The consolidated Group Risk are developed together with the business/auditee
Report including target risk profile is discussed by and are tracked to completion.
the Corporate Executive Committee and approved • Statutory auditors, see page 116
together with the Group Business Plan. All material • Chief Compliance Officer and Compliance Officers
risks are reviewed by the Board on a yearly basis. in subsidiaries, see page 119
The effectiveness of the risk management process is • Safety, Health and Environmental Protection
monitored by the Group Risk Advisory team and Department11
the overall process is regularly reviewed by external • Corporate Sustainability Committee12
9 roche.com/risk-management
10 Additional information is provided in the Finance Report, Note 29 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements, ‘Risk management’, page 102.
11 roche.com/environment
12 roche.com/sustainabilityCorporate Governance | Roche
113
• Science and Ethics Advisory Group (SEAG), for In 2017, the Board of Directors met for 7 meetings,
issues relating to genetics and genetic engineering13 generally each from 3 to 6 hours in length; including
a full-day meeting and in addition for a 4-day visit
The members of the Corporate Executive Committee to a major subsidiary**.
are invited to attend meetings of the Board of The Board Committees met as follows in 2017:
Directors for, and report in person on, those agenda • Presidium of the Board of Directors/Nomination
items concerning them. When the situation warrants, Committee: 6 meetings (approx. 2 hours each**)
members of the Enlarged Corporate Executive • Remuneration Committee: 2 meetings14 (approx.
Committee may also be invited to attend. The Board 2 to 3 hours each**)
Committees invite the Chairman of the Board and • Audit Committee: 4 meetings (approx. 3 to 4 hours
Corporate Executive Committee members to deliver each**)
reports at committee meetings and may elect to • Corporate Governance and Sustainability
commission independent expert reports and call on Committee: 3 meetings (approx. 3 hours each**)
the services of consultants.
The Board of Directors regularly conducts an
Each year several black-out periods are imposed assessment (self-assessment/assessment by third parties
during which senior employees are prohibited from via electronical survey and personal interviews) of its
trading in company stock. The following black-out performance. In 2017, a self-assessment of the Board
periods are in effect for 2018: of Directors and in addition a self-assessment of the
26 December 2017 to 1 February 2018 Audit Committee was conducted.
1 April to 26 April 2018
26 June to 26 July 2018 Members of the Corporate Executive Committee have
1 October to 17 October 2018 a maximum ordinary notice period of twelve months.
Black-out periods can be changed by the Chairman There are no change-of-control clauses in the
of the Board of Directors if circumstances warrant. employment contracts.
There are no management contracts which fall within
the scope of Subsection 4.4 (annex) of the SIX Directive
on Information relating to Corporate Governance.
13 roche.com/ethical_conflicts
14 Remuneration Committee members recuse themselves from deliberations and decisions on matters that affect their interests.
** These figures indicate the actual length of meetings and do not include the directors’ extensive pre-meeting preparations and post-meeting follow-up activities.114
Dr Andreas Oeri, Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee, during a SHE-Audit in India (photo: GAK).
Board and Board Committees attendance 2017
Corporate
Presidium/ Governance and
Nomination Remuneration Audit Sustainability
Board Committee Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings 7 6 2 4 3
Ch. Franz 7 6 2 4* 3*
A. Hoffmann 7 6 2 1* 3
J. Bell 7 – – 4 –
J. Brown 7 – – 4 –
P. Bulcke 7 – – 4 –
A. Hauser (since March 2017) 6 – – – 2
R.P. Lifton 7 – 2 – –
B. Poussot 7 – 2 – –
S. Schwan 7 – – 4* –
A. Oeri 7 – – – 3
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff 7 – – 4 3
P. R. Voser 6 – 2 – –
Retired Board members
(retired in March 2017)
P. Baschera 1 – – – 1
– Not a member of that committee
* Invited as a guest to these Board Committee meetingsCorporate Governance | Roche
115
Remuneration, shareholdings and loans
Rules in Aol 15 for
All details regarding remuneration, shareholdings
and loans (content and method of determining the Content Board CEC
compensation and the shareholding programmes, Rules on the principles §25.1–6 §25.1–6
basic principles and elements of compensation and applicable to performance-
shareholding programmes for serving and former related pay
members of the Board of Directors and Corporate Rules on the principles to the §25.7 §25.7
Executive Committee, together with a description of allocation of equity securities,
the authorities and procedure for determining such) convertible rights and options
are set forth in the separate Remuneration Report on Additional amount for payments §24.5
pages 120 to 146 and in the Finance Report, Notes 21 to members of the Executive
and 30 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Committee appointed after the
Statements (‘Equity attributable to Roche shareholders’ vote on pay at the General
and ‘Related parties’, pages 83 and 111), and are listed Meeting of Shareholders
in Note 6 to the Financial Statements of Roche Holding Rules on loans, credit facilities §25.1 and 3 §25.2 and 3
Ltd (‘Board and Executive shareholdings’, page 156). and post-employment benefits
Rules on the vote on pay at §24 §24
The following rules on Remuneration, shareholdings the AGM
and loans for the Board of Directors (Board) and the
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) are set forth
in the Articles of Incorporation (AoI)15:
Participatory rights of shareholders
The participatory rights of shareholders are defined Under §10.2 of the Articles of Incorporation,
in Roche’s Articles of Incorporation.15 As Roche shareholders representing shares with a nominal value
shares are issued to bearer, there are no restrictions of at least CHF 1 million can request the placement
on admission to Annual General Meetings, with the of items on the agenda of an Annual General Meeting.
exception that shares must be deposited within a This must be done no later than 28 days before the
specified period before the date of a meeting and an date of the meeting.
admittance card must be issued in the shareholder’s
name, as provided in §12 of the Articles of The rules on the issue of instructions to the
Incorporation. Any shareholder can elect to be independent proxy and rules on the electronic
represented by a third party at an Annual General participation in the AGM are laid down in the
Meeting. corresponding invitation to the AGM and are not
regulated in the Articles of Incorporation.
The Articles of Incorporation contain no restrictions
on the exercise of voting rights, and the only quorum
requirements are those stipulated in §16, in conformity
with the Swiss Code of Obligations.
15 roche.com/article_of_incorporation116
Change of control and defensive measures
The Articles of Incorporation contain no provisions would be terminated in the event of an acquisition,
on the mandatory bid rule. Swiss law applies. and vesting period restrictions on pre-existing awards
would be removed, so that all such options could be
There are no change-of-control clauses. Those exercised immediately.
components of remuneration based on Roche NES
Relationship to statutory auditors
At the Annual General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd The reports of the statutory auditor on the Consolidated
on 14 March 2017, the shareholders voted to appoint Financial Statements and on the Financial Statements
KPMG AG (KPMG) as statutory auditors. Based on can be found on pages 128 and 160, respectively, of
the existing legal requirements of the Swiss Code of this year’s Finance Report.
Obligations (Article 730a) concerning the maximum
term of office of seven years of the auditor in charge, KPMG received the following remuneration for their
Ian Starkey as auditor-in-charge since business year services as statutory auditors of Roche Holding Ltd
2011 was replaced by Mark Baillache starting with and as the auditors of other Roche companies
the business year 2018 (information on how long the (including Chugai):
auditors and auditor-in-charge have been serving in
these capacities is provided on page 108). The statutory 2017 2016
auditors participate in Audit Committee meetings. (millions of CHF)
They prepare written and oral reports on the results Auditing services 21.0 21.5
of their audits. The Audit Committee oversees and Audit-related services
assesses the auditors and makes recommendations – Assurance 0.5 0.8
to the Board (for information on the authorities and – Non statutory audits – 2.6
responsibilities of the Audit Committee, see Article 8.1 Tax services 1.4 1.4
of the Bylaws16). The statutory auditors participated Other services 0.4 2.2
in all 4 meetings of the Audit Committee in 2017. Total 23.3 28.5
16 roche.com/article_of_incorporationCorporate Governance | Roche
117
The statutory auditors are elected each year by the Other services include advice relating to process
Annual General Meeting. improvements, regulations and trainings.
Auditing services are provided as legally required. The company has a formal policy governing the
engagement of the statutory auditor for non-audit
Audit-related services include assurance and accounting services. The policy prohibits certain services from
services provided by auditors but which are not being provided but permits certain other services
necessarily provided by the statutory auditor. These up to limits agreed by the Audit Committee. Each
services which go beyond the legal requirements could potential non-audit service engagement is reviewed
include other attestation services, comfort letters, against this policy before any authority to proceed
consents and consultations. is given.
Tax services include services with respect to
compliance, tax returns and tax advice except those
services related to the audit of tax.
Relationship to the independent proxy
In recent years, BDO AG served as the independent The rules on the issue of instructions to the
proxy and at the Annual General Meeting on independent proxy and rules on the electronic
14 March 2017, shareholders elected BDO AG as the participation in the AGM are laid down in the
independent proxy for the period from 2017 until corresponding invitation to the AGM and are
the conclusion of the 2018 ordinary Annual General not regulated in the Articles of Incorporation.
Meeting of Shareholders. BDO AG was paid for
its services for the Annual General Meeting 2017
according to expenditure totalling CHF 16,848
(2016: CHF 17,334).118
Information policy
As provided by §34 of the Articles of Incorporation17, All relevant information and documents, including
corporate notices are published in the Swiss Official all media releases, investor updates19 and presentations
Gazette of Commerce and in other daily newspapers to analyst and investor conferences are available
designated by the Board of Directors (‘Basler Zeitung’, on the Internet. Further publications are available
‘Finanz und Wirtschaft’, ‘L’Agefi’, ‘Le Temps’, ‘Neue on roche.com/publications or can be ordered by
Zürcher Zeitung’). e-mail or fax: basel.warehouse-services@roche.com
fax: +41 (0)61 688 69 02
Roche reports its half-year and full-year results in
business reports (published in print and/or online The contact address for Investor Relations is:
formats) and at media events. In addition, detailed F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Investor Relations,
first-quarter and nine months sales figures are Group Finance, 4070 Basel, Switzerland
published each year in April and October. The most tel.: +41 (0)61 688 88 80
current list of publication dates is available in fax: +41 (0)61 691 00 14
English and German on the Internet.18
Additional information, including details on specific
contact persons, is available on the Internet.20
17 roche.com/article_of_incorporation
18 roche.com/media
19 roche.com/investors
20 roche.com/investors/contactsCorporate Governance | Roche
119
Chief Compliance Officer and
Compliance Officers network
The Chief Compliance Officer with his Compliance In addition, Roche has established a Business Ethics
Officers network is committed to ensuring that the Incident Reporting (BEIR) system which enables
Roche Group Code of Conduct21 is consistently the Chief Compliance Officer to capture, track and
complied with throughout the Roche Group. He also monitor alleged violations, from initial reports by
serves as a contact person for shareholders, employees, local Compliance Officers through to resolution.
customers, suppliers and the general public on issues
relating to the implementation of and compliance with Business ethics incidents are recorded in the system
this Code. Employees and other parties who become when the Group Internal Investigation department or
aware of violations of the Roche Group Code of Conduct the regional/local management receives specific and
can bring them to the attention of their managers or concrete information about an alleged violation of the
supervisors, to the local Compliance Officer or report Roche Group Code of Conduct in one of certain pre-
them to the Chief Compliance Officer (Dr Urs Jaisli, defined categories.22 The Corporate Governance and
direct phone number: +41 (0)61 688 40 18, e-mail: Sustainability Committee and the Audit Committee
urs.jaisli@roche.com). Such disclosures will be treated of the Board of Directors are informed of substantial
confidentially. In addition, as of the end of 2009, violations and management’s corrective actions made.
employees may anonymously report irregularities or
complaints in their mother tongue via a ‘SpeakUp The Chief Compliance Officer reports to the General
Line’. Starting in December 2013, a new compliance Counsel and also submits regular reports to the
tool on Group level, the so-called Roche Group Code Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
of Conduct Help & Advice Line, was introduced and as needed to the Audit Committee of the Board
which strives to provide guidance in case of questions of Directors.
or uncertainties about the interpretation of the Roche
Group Code of Conduct and its reference documents.
It furthermore will serve as a platform for ideas and
suggestions concerning those documents.
Non-applicability/negative disclosure
It is expressly noted that any information not contained (as provided in the SIX Swiss Exchange Corporate
or mentioned herein is either non-applicable or its Governance Directive and the Commentary thereto).
omission is to be construed as a negative declaration
21 roche.com/code_of_conduct
22 roche.com/risk-management120Remuneration Report | Roche
121
Re mune ration
Re por t
Material topics covered in this chapter
• Executive remuneration122
1. Principles
Roche’s success depends substantially on the For a global company like Roche, market-competitive
expertise, motivation and performance of its remuneration plays a key role along with a
employees. This conviction forms the basis of our performance-based, transparent compensation
compensation policy. structure. To ensure that compensation packages are
competitive, both the structure and individual
Roche aims to remunerate all employees fairly, components are regularly benchmarked against Swiss,
transparently and in line with market conditions, European and international criteria. Our remuneration
to enable them to participate appropriately in the guidelines and their underlying principles are also
company’s success. We pursue this goal by providing subject to regular outside comparisons.
competitive, performance-based and results-oriented
compensation. However, compensation policy is only one factor in
safeguarding Roche’s future success. Another key
We strive for a balanced mix of fixed and variable element is a corporate culture that offers employees
compensation components geared to each employee’s conditions in which they can make their best possible
position and management responsibility. contribution to the shared corporate goal of improving
healthcare to patients. This includes a sound value
Firstly, the variable components are intended to create system that is based on integrity, courage and passion.
additional financial incentives to achieve corporate At the same time, our decentralised management
goals and to keep innovation at a consistently high approach plays a major role with its wide scope for
Compensation level while increasing the value that the company individual decision-making, respectful interactions,
policy: creates for all stakeholder groups. Secondly, in order openness to diversity, wide-ranging training and
roche.com/rewards to allow employees and managers to participate in the development opportunities and an attractive working
company’s business success, adequate compensation environment. An unidimensional diminishment to
Sound value system: measures are key. Both objectives are incentivised by questions on remuneration would fall by far too short.
roche.com/living_ annual bonus payments and long-term share-based
our_values programmes. Roche is committed to a fair, performance-based
and results-oriented compensation policy that links
employees’ interests with those of various other
stakeholder groups.Remuneration Report | Roche
123
2. Remuneration decision process and
approval framework
2.1 Overview The terms of the long-term oriented Performance
Each year the Remuneration Committee of Roche’s Share Plan (PSP) awards are decided annually by the
Board of Directors decides the remuneration of Board Board of Directors, acting upon recommendations
members and the members of the Group’s Corporate from the Remuneration Committee.
Executive Committee.
Remuneration decision process and approval framework
Beneficiary
Remuneration Board of Directors (BoD) Corporate Executive Decision by Approval by
components Chairman (C) Committee (CEC) incl.
CEO Roche Group
Base pay/remuneration √ √
Bonus √ (C only) √ Remuneration Committee
Stock-settled Stock – √
Appreciation Rights Annual General
Performance Share Plan – √ Board of Directors upon Meeting
recommendation from
Remuneration Committee
Decisions on pension √ (C only) √ Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee tracks market data Since 2014, total aggregate amounts which are based
on salaries at other leading global pharmaceutical on these decisions have been submitted to the General
companies1 and at major Swiss companies2 and Meeting for approval implementing the ‘Ordinance
reports its findings to the full Board. The external against excessive compensation in listed corporations’
consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) (Verordnung gegen übermässige Vergütungen bei
assists the Remuneration Committee of Roche in börsenkotierten Aktiengesellschaften [VegüV]). The
performing market comparisons and in advising. General Meeting shall vote annually and with binding
Information on the Remuneration Committee’s remit, effect on the approval of the remuneration (that the
powers and procedures for making remuneration Board of Directors has resolved) of the Board of
decisions can be found in the Bylaws of the Roche Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee
Board of Directors3 and in the Articles of (for details see 4. and 5.).
Incorporation.4 They are also outlined in the
sections below on the principles governing specific
remuneration components (see 3.).
1 Peer set for 2017: Abbott Laboratories, AbbVie, Amgen, Astellas, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson &
Johnson, Merck & Co., Novartis, Pfizer, Sanofi, Takeda (no change in composition of peer set compared to 2016).
2 ABB, Credit Suisse, LafargeHolcim, Nestlé, Sonova, Straumann, Swiss Re, UBS, Zurich Insurance.
3 roche.com/article_of_incorporation
4 roche.com/article_of_incorporation124
André Hoffmann, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Peer set for 2017
Abbott Laboratories
AbbVie ABB
Amgen Credit Suisse
Astellas LafargeHolcim
AstraZeneca Nestlé
Roche
Bayer Sonova
Bristol-Myers Squibb Straumann
Eli Lilly Swiss Re
GlaxoSmithKline UBS
Johnson & Johnson Zurich Insurance
Merck & Co.
Peer set for 2017
Novartis
Pfizer
Sanofi
Takeda
Market comparison companies for salary assessment
Pharma peer set
Major Swiss companiesRemuneration Report | Roche
125
2.2 Procedure for submitting total Board and Retrospective approval
Executive remuneration for shareholder approval Total aggregate bonus amounts for the Corporate
at the Annual General Meeting Executive Committee and the Chairman of the Board
Each year at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of Directors for the financial year just ended will be
shareholders approve the total remuneration for the submitted retrospectively at each ordinary AGM for
Board of Directors and for the Corporate Executive separate and binding approval.
Committee as decided by the Board of Directors’
Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors, Prospective approval
respectively. All other Board and Executive aggregate remuneration
will be submitted prospectively to the AGM for separate
According to the approval at the AGM 2014, Roche has and binding approval for the period between two
committed itself to obtaining separate and binding ordinary AGMs.
shareholder approvals of the total remuneration paid
to the Board of Directors and to the Corporate
Executive Committee as follows:
Approval of total remuneration at the Annual General Financial year 2017 Financial year 2018
Meeting 2018
Retrospective:
Chairman of the BoD (C):
C
• Bonus for financial year 2017 (total amount) Bonus
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) including
CEO Roche Group: CEC
Bonus
• Bonus for financial year 2017 (total amount)
Prospective:
Board of Directors (BoD) including C: BoD
Base pay/remuneration
Aggregate total remuneration (AGM 2018–AGM 2019)
• Base pay/remuneration
Corporate Executive Committee (CEC) including
CEC
CEO Roche Group: Base pay
Aggregate total remuneration (AGM 2018–AGM 2019) S-SARs
PSP
• Base pay
Indirect benefits
• Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs)
• Performance Share Plan (PSP)
• Indirect benefits
AGM 2017 AGM 2018 AGM 2019
1.1.2017 1.1.2018 1.1.2019126
3. Remuneration components
3.1 Overview of remuneration elements The LTI remuneration components are intended to
Remuneration to the members of the Board of sustainably and homogenously and long-term oriented
Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee align management’s interest with those of shareholders
are composed of the following elements (for concrete and holders of non-voting equity securities and to give
composition see chart below: ‘Composition of participating managers an additional incentive to
remuneration to the Board of Directors and the achieve value growth in the form of long-term total
Corporate Executive Committee’): shareholder returns.
The fixed base salary is complemented with the annual
variable bonus as Short-Term Incentive (STI) and
with perennial variable remuneration elements
(S-SARs, PSP) as Long-Term Incentive (LTI).
The remuneration components are linked to the
employees’ performance, the company’s financial
performance and commercial success and thus align
the interests of Roche and its employees with those
of shareholders.
Composition of remuneration to the Board of Directors and the Corporate Executive Committee
Annual
remuneration elements Description C BoD CEO Roche Group CEC
Base pay/ Monthly payment √ √ Q uarterly √ √
remuneration (see 3.1.1 below) payments
Bonus Annual payment √ For 10 years – √ For 10 years √ Cash
(see 3.1.2 below) blocked shares blocked shares
Pensions etc. (see 3.1.6 below) √ – √ √
Perennial
remuneration elements
Stock-settled Stock (see 3.1.3 below) – – √ √
Appreciation Rights
(S-SARs)
Performance Share (see 3.1.4 below) – – √ For 10 years √
Plan (PSP) blocked non-
voting equity
securities or
sharesRemuneration Report | Roche
127
Variable
STI: Base salary
• Bonus
Indirect benefits (employer contribution):
LTI: • Pensions and insurance contributions
• Stock-settled Stock • Roche Connect
Roche
Appreciation Rights • Tax consulting services
• Performance Share Plan
remuneration
Expense allowances
components Others:
• Children’s schooling costs
• Foreign tax obligation
• AHV/IV/ALV
Fixed
3.1.1 Base pay (fixed) to the achievement of measurable and qualitative
Base pay (cash payment) is determined for each individual or functional performance objectives.
position based on salary market data of other leading For competitive reasons, Roche does not disclose the
global pharmaceutical companies (see footnote 1) individual performance objectives of members of its
and of other major Swiss companies (see footnote 2) Corporate Executive Committee and of its Chairman.
and reflects individuals’ abilities, experience and
performance over time. Pay adjustments are likewise In December at the end of a reporting year or in
linked to individual performance and take into account January following a reporting year, the Remuneration
prevailing market conditions and the company’s Committee decides on the bonuses and their amounts
overall financial situation. payable to the Chairman of the Board and the members
of the Corporate Executive Committee in respect of
The Remuneration Committee makes and reviews the current reporting year, based on performance
the final decision on the individual base pay paid to against the aforementioned objectives. At the same
the Chairman of the Board of Directors and members time, the Remuneration Committee also decides in
of the Corporate Executive Committee and on the what form bonuses will be awarded, ie, cash payments
remuneration of the other members of the Board. and/or long-term blocked non-voting equity securities
and/or blocked shares.
3.1.2 Bonuses (variable)
Bonuses are annually awarded for individual 3.1.3 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights
contributions of value creation in a business year and (S-SARs) (variable)
are meant to be an incentive to strive for outstanding S-SARs entitle holders to benefit financially from any
results and to create new business opportunities. increase in the value of Roche’s non-voting equity
Bonus amounts are linked to Group and divisional securities between the grant date and the exercise date.
core profits, sales growth at constant exchange rates, As of 2012, S-SARs granted all vest together after three
Operating Profit After Capital Charge (OPAC) based years and then have to be exercised within seven years
on core operating profit, core earnings per share and of the grant date. Unexercised S-SARs lapse without
non-voting equity security (NES) growth at constant compensation. Since 2012, the fair value of S-SARs has
exchange rates, product development pipeline, diversity been calculated at the grant date using the trinomial
of employees and managers, environmental goals and model for American options (for details see page 138).128
S-SARs to the Corporate Executive Committee are 3.1.5 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
allocated individually at the Remuneration In 2016, Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) as
Committee’s discretion. In 2017 in addition, around remuneration component for the Corporate
19,500 employees received S-SARs. Executive Committee were replaced by awarding
of corresponding PSPs (see 5.16.3). Therefore, the
3.1.4 Performance Share Plan (PSP) (variable) long-term incentive programmes for the Corporate
The PSP was established in 2002 for periods of three Executive Committee comprise PSP awards and
years each and is based on a three-year comparison S-SARs, approximately 50% each. With this, the
of the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) with 15 peer structure of the LTI is simplified, and in comparison
companies (see footnote 1). with competitors the company’s long-term
performance, which is mirrored in the share price
In a respective year, the PSP consists of three and the TSR, shall be reflected more strongly in the
overlapping performance cycles, with a new cycle Corporate Executive Committee’s remuneration.
starting at the beginning of each year and a cycle
finishing at the end of each year. In 2017, there were 3.1.6 Indirect benefits
the three overlapping performance cycles PSP 2015– As shown in 5.9 (5.3 [for the CEO Roche Group]
2017, PSP 2016–2018 and PSP 2017–2019, of which and 4.3 [for the Chairman], respectively), members
PSP 2015–2017 closed on 31 December 2017 (see 5.7 of the Corporate Executive Committee additionally
and 5.3). received indirect benefits (payments in pension funds,
MGB [Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für
The plan’s key performance metric for an award, Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung als Ergän zung der
the TSR, is calculated as a three-month moving beruflichen Vorsorge, ie, employee profit-sharing
average rate before the start of and before the end of foundation supplementing occupational pension
the performance cycle. The payment of the PSP is benefits], insurances, Roche Connect, payments for
determined by the Board of Directors on an annual foreign tax obligation and tax consulting services
basis, acting upon recommendations from the and annual expense allowances) and as shown
Remuneration Committee. under 5.10 individual members of the Corporate
Executive Committee received payments for
Since 2016, PSP awards as a remuneration component schooling costs for their children.
are reserved for the Corporate Executive Committee
and the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee
whilst in previous years other members of senior PSP: historical performance
management participated in the PSP. Since 2016, (% of award of originally targeted NES)
the long-term incentive programmes for the other
previous PSP participants comprise S-SARs and 200%
RSUs (see 5.16.3), approximately 50% each. 175%
175% 175%
150%
125%
100%
75%
50%
50%
25%
0% 0%
0%
2011–2013 2012–2014 2013–2015 2014–2016 2015–2017Remuneration Report | Roche
129
3.2 Weighting (fixed/variable) of 2017 remuneration components (at target and as percentage of total remuneration in 2017)
Chairman 90% 10%
Board of Directors 100%
Corporate Executive Committee
37% 63%
(including CEO Roche Group)
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
fixed variable
3.3 Ratio of variable remuneration components relative to fixed base pay of the Corporate Executive
Committee 2017
Ratio of variable remuneration components (bonuses, S-SARs and PSP) relative to % of value of fixed base pay
STI LTI
Criteria Bonus S-SARs PSP
Individual target value * 100% 66.66% 66.66% **
Minimum 0% 0% 0%
Maximum 200% 66.66% 133.33%
Performance criteria Group objectives (Group and divisional Value development Value development
business performance) and individual determined by performance determined by performance
objectives considering core profits, sales (plus a value adjustment (plus a value adjustment for
growth at constant exchange rates, for dividends) of NES dividends) of NES/bearer
Operating Profit After Capital Charge (OPAC) after grant shares after grant.
based on core operating profit, core earnings Group performance of TSR in
per share and non-voting equity security relation to TSR performance
(NES) growth at constant exchange rates, of peer set (TSR definition
product development pipeline, diversity of see 5.7)
employees and managers, environmental
goals
Split in %
a) Group objectives 70% n.a. 100%
b) Individual objectives 30% n.a. –
n.a. – not applicable
* Assessed in consideration of the performance of competitors and the macro-economic development
** Based on annual base pay measured at 1 January of first year of cycle
For all further details please refer to the following
sections of this Remuneration Report.5
5 See also in the Finance Report Note 30 to the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements (‘Related parties’, page 111) and Note 6 to the Financial
Statements of Roche Holding Ltd (‘Board and Executive shareholdings’, page 156).130
4. Remuneration of the Board of
Directors
4.1 Resolution and approval 4.2 Amount of remuneration to the members of
Remuneration of the Chairman of the Board of the Board of Directors
Directors and of members of the Board of Directors In 2017, the members of the Board of Directors 6
was decided at the Remuneration Committee’s received remuneration and additional compensation
discretion, taking into account market comparisons. in form of quarterly fixed cash payments as shown
in the ‘Remuneration of members of the Board of
The remuneration is in form of cash payments and is Directors 2017’ table on page 131 for their Board
annually tracked against market data on directors’ activities. Roche paid legally required employer’s
pay at other leading global pharmaceuticals contributions of total CHF 195,955 to Swiss social
companies (see footnote 1) and other major Swiss security programmes providing retirement, disability
companies (see footnote 2) which is assisted by the and unemployment benefits (AHV/IV/ALV) for the
consultancy of PwC. members of the Board of Directors beside the legally
required contributions separately stated for the
As in the previous year, in 2018, the Board of Chairman of the Board of Directors.
Directors will separately submit the total aggregate
bonus of the Chairman of the Board of Directors to The basic remuneration of the Board of Directors
the General Meeting for the 2017 financial year for (excluding the Chairman) has remained unchanged
retrospectively binding approval. since 2001.
The maximum amounts of the total aggregate With the exception of the Chairman of the Board
remuneration of the Board of Directors for the period of Directors (bonus in form of blocked shares) and
between the ordinary General Meeting 2018 and the Dr Severin Schwan as an executive member of the
ordinary General Meeting 2019 will be tabled in 2018 Board, members of the Board of Directors were not
as in the previous year for the General Meeting’s awarded any shares, non-voting equity securities
prospectively binding approval (see 2.2). or S-SARs.
There are no loans or credits granted to the members
of the Board of Directors.
In his capacity as a member of the Chugai
International Council (CIC) of Chugai Pharmaceutical
Co., Ltd. André Hoffmann received in 2017 honoraria
amounting to a total of USD 40,000 (CHF 39,392).
For his advisory service on the Genentech Scientific
Review Board, Prof. Dr Richard P. Lifton received in
2017 honoraria amounting to a total of USD 18,750
(CHF 18,465).
6 For a list of members, their positions and their committee memberships and chairmanships see page 107.
DETIDUARemuneration Report | Roche
131
Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors 2017 (in CHF)
Additional remuneration Additional special Total
Basic remuneration for committee members/chairs 7 remuneration remuneration
Ch. Franz, Chairman (see ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’)
A. Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman 400,000 8 – 39,392 439,392
(see page 130)
J. Bell 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
J. Brown 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
P. Bulcke 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
A. Hauser (since March 2017) 250,000 9 30,000 – 280,000
R.P. Lifton 300,000 30,000 18,465 348,465
(see page 130)
A. Oeri 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
B. Poussot 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
S. Schwan (see ‘5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive
Committee’, remuneration received in his primary function as CEO Roche Group and reflected in total
remuneration for the Corporate Executive Committee)
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
P.R. Voser 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
P. Baschera 75,000 10 7,500 10 – 82,500 10
(retired in March 2017)
Total 11 3,125,000 367,500 57,857 3,550,357
7 With the exception of members of the Presidium (Chairman, Vice-Chairman) Board members receive CHF 30,000/year for each committee they serve
on and CHF 60,000/year for each committee they chair.
8 Remuneration for serving as Vice-Chairman of the Board.
9 Prorated remuneration for the period from March to December 2017.
10 Prorated remuneration paid for the period January to March 2017.
11 Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 427,155 (including the Chairman) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
DETIDUA132
Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors 2016 (in CHF)
Additional remuneration Additional special Total
Basic remuneration for committee members/chairs 12 remuneration remuneration
Ch. Franz, Chairman (see ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors’)
A. Hoffmann, Vice-Chairman 400,000 13 – 39,411 439,411
P. Baschera 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
J. Bell 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
J. Brown (since March 2016) 250,000 14 60,000 – 310,000
P. Bulcke 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
R.P. Lifton 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
A. Oeri 300,000 60,000 – 360,000
B. Poussot 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
S. Schwan (see ‘5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive
Committee’, remuneration received in his primary function as CEO Roche Group and reflected in total
remuneration for the Corporate Executive Committee)
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff 250,000 14 60,000 – 310,000
(since March 2016)
P.R. Voser 300,000 30,000 – 330,000
D. Julius 75,000 15 15,000 15 – 90,000 15
(retired in March 2016)
B. Weder di Mauro 75,000 15 7,500 15 – 82,500 15
(retired in March 2016)
Total 16 3,150,000 382,500 39,411 3,571,911
12 With the exception of members of the Presidium (Chairman, Vice-Chairman) Board members receive CHF 30,000/year for each committee they serve
on and CHF 60,000/year for each committee they chair.
13 Remuneration for serving as Vice-Chairman of the Board.
14 Prorated remuneration for the period from March to December 2016.
15 Prorated remuneration paid for the period January to March 2016.
16 Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 426,354 (including the Chairman) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
4.3 Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of (in form of bearer shares blocked for 10 years, payable
the Board of Directors in April 2018) will be put for shareholder binding vote
As Chairman, Dr Christoph Franz received total at the 2018 ordinary Annual General Meeting (AGM).
remuneration for 2017 as shown below. The
Remuneration Committee’s bonus proposal (adopted The Chairman’s total remuneration is contained in the
in late 2017) in respect of the 2017 financial year total remuneration of the Board of Directors in 4.4.
DETIDUARemuneration Report | Roche
133
4.4 Total remuneration paid to the Board 4.6 Board remuneration subject to approval at the
of Directors Annual General Meeting
For the 2017 calendar year the members of the
Board of Directors received remuneration including 4.6.1 Submission of the Chairman’s total aggregate
bonuses and employer contribution of social bonus for a binding vote at the Annual General
securities’ beneficial parts totalling CHF 9,364,757 Meeting
(2016: CHF 9,295,423), excluding additional employer’s Remuneration to the Chairman of the Board of
contribution paid to AHV/IV/ALV totalling Directors includes a bonus award of CHF 558,390 in
CHF 427,155 (2016: CHF 426,354) that does not form of shares blocked for 10 years as shown in the
form part of remuneration. table in section ‘4.3 Total remuneration paid to the
Chairman of the Board of Directors’. The Board of
4.5 Remuneration paid to the former members of Directors will submit the Remuneration Committee’s
the Board of Directors bonus proposal (adopted in late 2017) for the Chairman
Former member of the Board of Directors Dr Franz B. of the Board, Dr Christoph Franz, in respect of the 2017
Humer in 2017 received fees amounting to a total of financial year (payable in April 2018, excluding legally
USD 89,800 (CHF 88,434) for serving a member of required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV)
the Board of Directors and of the Chugai International for the shareholder binding vote to the 2018 ordinary
Council (CIC) of Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Annual General Meeting.
Former member of the Board of Directors William M.
Burns in 2017 received honoraria amounting to a total
of USD 40,000 (CHF 39,392) in his capacity as a
member of the Chugai International Council (CIC)
of Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
No additional remuneration was paid.
DETIDUA
Total remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors (in CHF)
2017 2016
Base salary (in cash) 3,500,000 3,500,000
Bonus (subject to approval of the Annual General Meeting) 558,390 * 558,390 *
Pension funds/MGB 17/insurances/annual 1,681,401 ** 1,665,122 **
expense allowances
Total 5,739,791 18 5,723,512
* In form of shares blocked for 10 years (calculation of number of shares based on the share price at the date of transfer in April 2018 and 2017, respectively,
after approval at the AGM 2018/AGM 2017, respectively), calculation of value in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years
(reduced market value: 55.839%) to be submitted for shareholder approval at the AGM 2018/as approved at the AGM 2017, respectively
** I ncluding employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts
17 M GB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing occupational
pension benefits).
18 Additionally, employer contribution to AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 231,200 (2016: CHF 231,240) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
DETIDUA134
Retrospective approvals of the Chairman’s total aggregate bonus (in CHF) *
Proposal AGM 2018 AGM 2017 AGM 2016
Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for
financial year 2017 financial year 2016 financial year 2015
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/
approved by the AGM 558,390** 558,390 ** 558,390 **
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
** Bonus award (in form of shares blocked for 10 years [calculation of number of shares based on the share price at the date of transfer in April 2018/
April 2017/April 2016, respectively after approval at the AGM 2018/AGM 2017/AGM 2016, respectively], calculation of value in consideration of
reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years [reduced market value: 55.839%] to be submitted for shareholder approval at the AGM 2018/as
approved at the AGM 2017 and AGM 2016, respectively)
4.6.2 Submission of the Board’s total aggregate Dr Severin Schwan’s remuneration as shown in 5.3
future remuneration for a binding shareholder vote which he receives in his function as CEO Roche Group
The Board of Directors proposes that the 2018 and member of the Corporate Executive Committee
ordinary AGM approve Board remuneration totalling is not included here but is part of the Corporate
not more than CHF 10,000,000 (excluding legally Executive Committee’s total remuneration.
required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
and excluding bonuses) for the period ending at the
2019 ordinary AGM.
Prospective approvals of the Board’s total aggregate future remuneration (in CHF)*
Proposal AGM 2018 AGM 2017 AGM 2016
Aggregate amount Aggregate amount Aggregate amount
for the period for the period for the period
AGM 2018–AGM 2019 AGM 2017–AGM 2018 AGM 2016–AGM 2017
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/
approved by the AGM 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses
4.6.3 Reconciliation of the reported remuneration For comparison from 2016 ordinary AGM to ordinary
with the shareholders’ approved remuneration for 2017 AGM actual remuneration amounted to
the members of the Board of Directors CHF 8,637,246 (excluding legally required employer’s
The 2016 ordinary AGM approved Board remuneration contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses).
totalling not more than CHF 10,000,000 (excluding
legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/
ALV and excluding bonuses) for the period ending at
the 2017 ordinary AGM.Remuneration Report | Roche
135
Prospectively approved total remuneration for the members of the Board of Directors in comparison to the actual total
payments made (in CHF) *
Total remuneration Total remuneration Total remuneration
for the period for the period for the period
AGM 2017–AGM 2018 AGM 2016–AGM 2017 AGM 2015–AGM 2016
Maximum of total remuneration approved by the AGM 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000
Actual total remuneration paid Calculation at end of period 8,637,246 8,623,576
Within the approved limit Calculation at end of period Yes Yes
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses
4.7 Security holdings (‘Related parties’, page 111) and in Note 4 to
Directors André Hoffmann and Dr Andreas Oeri and the Financial Statements of Roche Holding Ltd
members of the founders’ families who are closely (‘Significant shareholders’, page 155). In addition,
associated with them belong to a contractually bound as at 31 December 2017 (as at 31 December 2016,
shareholder group with pooled voting rights. At the respectively) the members of the Board of Directors
end of 2017 this group held 72,018,000 shares (45.01% and persons closely associated with them held Roche
of issued shares). Detailed information about this shares, non-voting equity securities (NES) and
group can be found in the Finance Report, Note 30 to American Depositary Receipts (ADRs***) as shown
the Roche Group Consolidated Financial Statements in the table ‘Security holdings’ below.
Security holdings (shares and NES)
(as at 31 December 2017) (as at 31 December 2016)
Non-
voting Non-voting
equity Close relatives’ equity Close relatives’
securities security securities security
Shares (NES) holdings Others Shares (NES) holdings Others
(number) (number) (number/type) (number) (number) (number) (number/type) (number)
Board of Directors
Ch. Franz 11,522 4,810 – – 7,639 4,810 – –
A. Hoffmann – * 200 – – – * 200 – –
J. Bell 1,115 1,647 – – 300 1,647 – –
J. Brown 729 – – – – – – –
P. Bulcke – 4,000 – – – 2,500 – –
A. Hauser – 150 20 NES – n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
R.P. Lifton – – – 300 ADRs – – – –
A. Oeri – * 187,793 – – – * 187,793 – –
B. Poussot 500 500 – – – – – –
S. Schwan (see ‘5.16 Security holdings’ (see ‘5.16 Security holdings’
Corporate Executive Committee on page 144) Corporate Executive Committee on page 144)
C. Suessmuth Dyckerhoff – 621 ** – – – 621 ** – –
P.R. Voser – 5,000 – – – 5,000 – –
Retired Board members
(retired in March 2017)
P. Baschera n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 1 4,600 – –
Total 13,866 204,721 20 NES 300 ADRs 7,940 207,171 – –
n.a. – not applicable
* Shares held by the shareholder group with pooled voting rights not listed
** Jointly held with close relative
*** Roche’s ADR (American Depositary Receipt), listed on OTCQX www.otcmarkets.com/stock/RHHBY/quote International Premier under the symbol
RHHBY, ISIN US771195104. Traded in USD, eight (8) ADRs represent one (1) underlying NES.136
5. Remuneration of the Corporate
Executive Committee
5.1 Resolution and approval the Remuneration Committee and to the Board of
Remuneration of the members of the Corporate Directors are outlined on page 123, ‘2. Remuneration
Executive Committee was decided at the decision process and approval framework’.
Remuneration Committee’s discretion, taking
into account market comparisons. In 2017, members of the Corporate Executive
Committee received remuneration for their work
As in the previous year, in 2018, the Board of as shown in 5.3–5.12. The amount of remuneration
Directors will separately submit the total aggregate for the CEO Roche Group, Dr Severin Schwan, is
bonuses of the Corporate Executive Committee to explained in 5.3 in detail.
the General Meeting for the 2017 financial year for
retrospectively binding approval. 5.3 Highest total remuneration paid to
Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate
The maximum amounts of the total aggregate Executive Committee
remuneration of the Corporate Executive Committee Dr Severin Schwan, executive member of the Board
for the period between the ordinary General Meeting of Directors, received his remuneration in his primary
2018 and the ordinary General Meeting 2019 will be function as CEO Roche Group. It is reflected as the
tabled in 2018 as in the previous year for the General highest total remuneration paid to a member of the
Meeting’s prospectively binding approval (see 2.2). Corporate Executive Committee (see below) and
included in the total amount paid to the Corporate
5.2 Amount of remuneration to members of the Executive Committee (see ‘5.12 Total remuneration
Corporate Executive Committee paid to the members of the Corporate Executive
The general provisions assigning authority for decisions Committee’, page 141).
on Corporate Executive Committee remuneration toRemuneration Report | Roche
137
Highest total remuneration paid to Dr Severin Schwan as a member of the Corporate Executive Committee (in CHF)
2017 2016 19
Base salary 4,000,000 4,000,000
S-SARs 20 2,666,851 2,666,711
Pension funds/MGB 21/insurances 578,506 ** 561,576 **
Roche Connect 100,008 100,008
Bonus (subject to approval of the total aggregate bonuses for the Corporate Executive Committee
by Annual General Meeting)
– Blocked non-voting equity securities/shares 2,791,950 22* 2,791,950 *
PSP 1,488,970 23* 1,489,025 24*
Other payments: expense allowance/for tax consulting services 62,778 33,186
Total 11,689,063 25 11,642,456
* Calculation of value of non-voting equity securities/shares in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years (reduced market
value: 55.839%)
** Including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts
19 For detailed calculation of the remuneration for 2016 and 2015 see Annual Report 2016, page 141.
20 Number of S-SARs 2017: 85,476, grant value according to the trinomial model for American call options: CHF 31.20. Trinomial model for American call
options value as described in ‘5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee’,
page 138.
Number of S-SARs 2016: 89,517, grant value according to the trinomial model for American call options: CHF 29.79. Trinomial model for American call
options value as described in ‘5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee’,
page 138.
21 M GB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing occupational
pension benefits).
22 Shares blocked for 10 years (calculation of number of shares based on the share price at the date of transfer in April 2018 after approval at the AGM
2018).
23 Target number of non-voting equity securities for PSP 2017–2019 (11,565 non-voting equity securities) multiplied per non-voting equity securities’
price averaged over the three months (October to December 2016) prior to the start of the performance cycle 2017–2019, CHF 230.57/non-voting
equity security.
24 Target number of bearer shares for PSP 2016–2018 (9,968 bearer shares) multiplied per bearer share price averaged over the three months (October
to December 2015) prior to the start of the performance cycle 2016–2018, CHF 267.52/bearer share.
25 Includes an annual expense allowance (CHF 30,000) and payments for tax consulting services (CHF 32,778; 2016: CHF 3,186). Additionally, employer
contribution to AHV/IV/ALV of CHF 555,967 (2016: CHF 612,119) was paid that does not form part of remuneration.
5.4 Base pay of the other members of the Corporate Executive Committee
Base pay (in CHF)
2017 2016
R. Diggelmann 1,300,000 1,300,000
A. Hippe 1,600,000 1,600,000
G. A. Keller 1,500,000 1,500,000
D. O’Day 2,500,000 2,500,000
C. A. Wilbur 825,000 686,668 *
Total 7,725,000 7,586,668
* Base pay 2016 including prorated remuneration for the period from March to December 2016 as member of the Corporate Executive Committee
DETIDUA
DETIDUA138
5.5 Bonuses of the other members of the Corporate Except for Dr Severin Schwan, all members of the
Executive Committee Corporate Executive Committee will receive the bonus
The Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors 2017 as a 100% cash payment which is due in April
determined the Corporate Executive Committee 2018. Dr Severin Schwan will receive the bonus in
members’ bonuses based on the performance 2017 form of Roche shares which are blocked for 10 years.
against the agreed objectives. The total aggregate Bonus payment is due in April 2018 (see page 137).
amount of bonuses will be brought forward for a
binding vote by the Annual General Meeting 2018.
Bonus (in CHF)
2017 2016
(subject to approval of the
total aggregate bonuses of the
Corporate Executive Committee by
the Annual General Meeting 2018)
R. Diggelmann 1,350,000 1,250,000
A. Hippe 2,000,000 1,900,000
G. A. Keller 1,400,000 1,300,000
D. O’Day 3,100,000 3,000,000
C. A. Wilbur 950,000 850,000 *
Total 8,800,000 8,300,000
* Prorated remuneration for the period from March to December 2016
5.6 Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights The fair value of the S-SARs is calculated at the grant
(S-SARs) of the other members of the Corporate date using the trinomial model for American options.
Executive Committee The trinomial model is an effective method for
The S-SARs shown in the 5.16.2 ‘S-SARs’ table on valuation of American call options, as it considers the
page 145 entitle holders to benefit financially from any possibility of exercising the option any time prior to
increase in the value of Roche’s non-voting equity maturity (called ‘American’ option, as compared to a
securities (NES) between the grant date and the ‘European’ option, which only allows exercise at their
exercise date. The strike price for S-SARs under the maturity date).26
terms of this multi-year plan was the closing price for
Roche NES at grant date. All S-SARs vest three years The numbers of S-SARs, the strike prices, expiry dates
after the grant date. Vested S-SARs can be exercised and grant values for S-SARs are shown in the 5.16.2
(converted into NES) within seven years of the grant ‘S-SARs’ table on page 145. The numbers of S-SARs as
date. Unexercised S-SARs lapse without compensation. calculated at the time of issue have been entered as
values in the table on pages 139 and 137.27
26 For further information on the trinomial model for American options: Please refer to Boyle, Phelim P.: ‘A lattice framework for options pricing with two
state variables’, The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Volume 23, Issue 1 (Mar 1988), 1–12, roche.com/trinomial-model.pdf
27 See strike prices in table 5.16.2 ‘S-SARs’, page 145.
DETIDUARemuneration Report | Roche
139
Stock-settled Stock Appreciation Rights (S-SARs) (in CHF)
S-SARs S-SARs
2017 2016
R. Diggelmann 866,923 866,889
A. Hippe 1,066,759 1,066,810
G. A. Keller 1,000,022 1,000,050
D. O’Day 1,666,829 1,666,751
C. A. Wilbur 500,198 456,949
Total 5,100,731 5,057,449
5.7 Performance Share Plan (PSP) of the other If Roche securities perform better than the average of
members of the Corporate Executive Committee the peer set, the Board of Directors can elect to increase
Since 2016, PSP awards as a remuneration component the NES or bearer shares award. The maximum award
are reserved for the Corporate Executive Committee is double the original-level reserved target number of
and the Enlarged Corporate Executive Committee while NES or bearer shares according to the PSP plan (plus
in previous years other members of senior management a value adjustment being the amount equivalent to the
also participated in the Performance Share Plan. sum of the dividend paid during the vesting period
attributable to the number of non-voting equity
The PSP consists of overlapping three-year securities or bearer shares for which an individual
performance cycles, with a new cycle beginning each award has been granted) and requires that Roche
year. In 2017, there were thus three cycles in progress securities perform as well as or better than those of
(PSP 2015–2017, PSP 2016–2018 and PSP 2017–2019), 75% of the peer set. In the event that an investment in
whereas PSP 2015–2017 closed on 31 December 2017 Roche securities underperforms the average return
with none of the targeted bearer shares awarded delivered by the peer companies, fewer or no NES or
(PSP 2014–2016 [per 31 December 2016]: none of bearer shares will be awarded.
the targeted NES awarded; PSP 2013–2015 [per
31 December 2015]: 50% of the targeted NES In 2017, NES were reserved under the plan for
awarded). For the historical PSP performance members of the Corporate Executive Committee as
see 3.1.4. shown in the table on page 140 and on page 137. The
Board of Directors will decide on the actual level of
Under the provisions of this plan, a number of NES, bearer shares or cash equivalent awards for the
non-voting equity securities (NES) or bearer shares PSP cycles 2016–2018 and 2017–2019 after the close of
have been reserved for the participants in each cycle. the 2018 and 2019 financial years, respectively. The aim
The number of securities actually awarded will depend of the PSP is to provide an incentive to participants to
on whether and to what extent an investment in Roche achieve long-term value growth.
securities (shares and NES) outperforms the average
return on an investment in securities issued by a set At the end of the PSP 2015–2017 cycle (based on a
of peer companies.28 Comparisons are based on the three-month average) with distributed dividends
securities’ market prices and dividend yields, ie, on totalling CHF 20.961 billion (2017: CHF 7.073 billion;
Total Shareholder Return (TSR). To reduce the effect 2016: CHF 6.987 billion; 2015: CHF 6.901 billion),
of short-term market fluctuations, security prices are according to the terms of the plan, the participants
averaged over the three months (October to December) received none of the originally targeted bearer shares.
prior to the start of a performance cycle and over the
three months (October to December) at the end of
the cycle.
28 See footnote 1, page 123.
DETIDUA140
5.8 Restricted Stock Units of the other members of Roche Connect is a voluntary stock purchase plan
the Corporate Executive Committee offering employees the opportunity to buy Roche
In 2016, RSUs (see 5.16.3) as remuneration component non-voting equity securities (NES) up to an amount
for the Corporate Executive Committee were replaced equal to 10% of their annual salary at a 20% discount.
by awarding of corresponding PSPs. Therefore, the NES purchased under this plan are subject to a
variable long-term incentive programmes for the holding period, which is four years in Switzerland.
Corporate Executive Committee comprise PSP awards
and S-SARs, approximately 50% each. In addition, members of the Corporate Executive
Committee received annual expense allowances and
5.9 Indirect benefits of the other members of some members payments for foreign tax obligations
the Corporate Executive Committee and tax consulting services as shown in the table on
Employer contributions made in 2017 to social security page 141.
schemes, pension plans and a Group-wide employee
stock purchase plan (Roche Connect) in respect of
members of the Corporate Executive Committee are
shown in the ‘Indirect benefits (employer contributions)’
table on page 141 and employer contributions as
shown in the table on page 137.
DETIDUA
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
2017 2016
Fair value at grant Fair value at grant
per non-voting per bearer share,
equity securities bearer share
(NES), NES prices prices averaged
averaged over the over the three
three months Fair value of months (October to
Target number (October to target number of December 2015)
of non-voting December 2016) non-voting prior to the Fair value of
equity securities prior to the start equity securities Target number start of the target number of
(NES) for PSP of the performance (NES) for PSP of bearer shares performance cycle bearer shares for
2017–2019 cycle PSP 2017–2019 2017–2019 for PSP 2016–2018 PSP 2016–2018 PSP 2016–2018
(number) (value in CHF) (value in CHF) (number) (value in CHF) (value in CHF)
R. Diggelmann 3,758 230.57 866,482 3,239 267.52 866,497
A. Hippe 4,626 230.57 844,857 * 3,987 267.52 844,845 *
G.A. Keller 4,337 230.57 558,380 * * 3,738 267.52 999,990
D. O’Day 7,228 230.57 1,666,560 6,230 267.52 1,666,650
C. A. Wilbur 2,168 230.57 499,876 1,706 267.52 456,389
Total 22,117 230.57 4,436,155 18,900 267.52 4,834,371
* Calculation of value of non-voting equity securities/shares in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 4 years (reduced market
value: 79.209%)
** Calculation of value of non-voting equity securities in consideration of reduction of value due to blocking period of 10 years (reduced market
value: 55.839%)Remuneration Report | Roche
141
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
Indirect benefits (employer contributions) (in CHF)
2017 2016
Pension Payments Pension Payments
funds/ Annual for tax/tax funds/ Annual for tax/tax
MGB 29/ expense Roche consulting MGB 29/ expense Roche consulting
insurances * allowances Connect services insurances * allowances Connect services
R. Diggelmann 328,506 30,000 30,000 8,611 311,576 30,000 15,000 –
A. Hippe 328,506 30,000 39,996 15,545 311,576 30,000 39,996 11,818
G. A. Keller 115,314 30,000 37,500 1,623 98,384 30,000 37,500 –
D. O’Day 328,506 30,000 62,496 628,039 311,576 30,000 56,244 915,793
C. A. Wilbur 319,506 30,000 18,744 37,147 242,084 30,000 9,372 28,508
Total 1,420,338 150,000 188,736 690,965 1,275,196 150,000 158,112 956,119
* Including employer contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts
29 MGB: Stiftung der F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG für Mitarbeiter-Gewinnbeteiligung (employee profit-sharing foundation supplementing occupational
pension benefits).
5.10 Other remuneration and loans of members remuneration including bonuses and employer
of the Corporate Executive Committee contribution of social securities’ beneficial parts
Based on contractual obligations, in 2017, Roche totalling CHF 40,243,288 (2016: CHF 42,700,144),
paid to individual members of the Corporate excluding additional employer’s contribution
Executive Committee for their children’s schooling paid to AHV/IV/ALV totalling CHF 1,975,317
costs totalling CHF 42,300 (2016: CHF 42,300). (2016: CHF 1,972,422) that does not form part of
remuneration.
All aforementioned additional payments are included
in the total remuneration to members of the Corporate No additional remuneration other than the above
Executive Committee. mentioned payments was paid to current or former
members of the Corporate Executive Committee.
In 2017, there are no loans or credits granted to the
members of the Corporate Executive Committee. 5.13 Executive remuneration subject to approval
at the Annual General Meeting
The maximum regular period of notice for members
of the Corporate Executive Committee is 12 months. 5.13.1 Submission of Executive total aggregate
There are no change-of-control clauses in the bonuses for a binding vote at the Annual
employment contracts. General Meeting
The Board of Directors proposes awarding the members
5.11 Remuneration to former members of the of the Corporate Executive Committee bonuses (for
Corporate Executive Committee Dr Severin Schwan in form of Roche shares which
In 2017, pensions totalling CHF 2,049,180 (2016: are blocked for 10 years, for all other members of
CHF 2,049,180) were paid to former Corporate the Corporate Executive Committee as a 100% cash
Executive Committee members. payment, see 5.5) totalling CHF 11,591,950 in respect
of the 2017 financial year (2016: CHF 11,891,950),
5.12 Total remuneration paid to the members of excluding legally required employer’s contributions
the Corporate Executive Committee to AHV/IV/ALV, and will submit this proposed total
For the 2017 calendar year, the members of the amount to the ordinary Annual General Meeting
Corporate Executive Committee received (AGM) 2018 for a binding vote.
DETIDUA
DETIDUA
DETIDUA142
Retrospective approvals of the members of the Executive Committee’s total aggregate bonuses (in CHF) *
Proposal AGM 2018 AGM 2017 AGM 2016
Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for
financial year 2017 financial year 2016 financial year 2015
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/
approved by the AGM 11,591,950 11,891,950 12,726,984
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV
5.13.2 Submission of Executive total future aggregate incentives S-SARs (calculated at grant value
remuneration for a binding shareholder vote without considering reductions of value due to
The Board of Directors proposes that the 2018 blocking periods if applicable) and PSP (calculated at
ordinary AGM approves remuneration for the the time of reservation of non-voting equity securities
Corporate Executive Committee totalling not more or bearer shares and taking into account their maximal
than CHF 41,000,000 (excluding legally required potential to double, without considering reductions
employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and of value due to blocking periods), contributions to
excluding bonuses) for the period ending at the pension benefits (excluding legally required employer’s
2019 ordinary AGM. contributions to AHV/IV/ALV) as well as contributions
for expenses, payments for foreign tax obligations,
The amount of Executive total future aggregate tax consulting services and Roche Connect.
remuneration is composed of base pay, long-term
Prospective approvals of the members of the Executive Committee’s total future aggregate remuneration (in CHF) *
Proposal AGM 2018 AGM 2017 AGM 2016
Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for Aggregate amount for
the period the period the period
AGM 2018–AGM 2019 AGM 2017–AGM 2018 AGM 2016–AGM 2017
Total aggregate amount proposal for approval/
approved by the AGM 41,000,000 41,000,000 41,000,000
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonusesRemuneration Report | Roche
143
5.13.3 Reconciliation of the reported remuneration excluding bonuses) for the period ending at the
with the shareholders’ prospectively approved 2017 ordinary AGM.
remuneration for the members of the Corporate
Executive Committee For comparison, from 2016 ordinary AGM to
The 2016 ordinary AGM approved remuneration for 2017 ordinary AGM remuneration amounted to
the Corporate Executive Committee totalling not CHF 40,001,760 (excluding legally required employer’s
more than CHF 41,000,000 (excluding legally required contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses.
employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and PSP: Assumption of maximum value).
Prospectively approved total remuneration of the members of the Executive Committee in comparison to actual total
remuneration effected (in CHF) *
Amount for the period Amount for the period Amount for the period
AGM 2017–AGM 2018 AGM 2016–AGM 2017 AGM 2015–AGM 2016
Maximum of total remuneration prospectively
approved by the AGM ** 41,000,000 41,000,000 37,000,000
Total remuneration calculated at end of Calculation at the end of
corresponding AGM–AGM period ** period AGM 2017–AGM 2018 40,001,760 33,938,257
Actual total remuneration realised (for
corresponding AGM–AGM period based on the Calculation at the end of 2019 Calculation at the end of
actual amount calculated restrospectively after the (after the end of the PSP 2018 (after the end of the
end of the corresponding PSP cycle) cycle 2017–2019) PSP 2016–2018 cycle) 26,273,042 ***
Within the approved limit Calculation at end of period Yes Yes
Additional amount paid for new members of the
Corporate Executive Committee after approval by
the AGM and not within the approved total amount No No No
* Excluding legally required employer’s contributions to AHV/IV/ALV and excluding bonuses
** Including assumption amount of 200% (maximum possible award) of bearer shares/non-voting equity securities of the corresponding PSP cycle
*** Due to no award of bearer shares under the PSP 2015–2017 cycle and their originally included calculation of 200% (maximum possible award), the
amount of the total remuneration for the period AGM 2015–AGM 2016 is reduced to CHF 26,273,042.144
5.14 Clawback According to the regulations of the PSP programme,
In addition to applicable statutory provisions, the originally targeted but not awarded NES or shares
Roche’s long-term incentive plans include the option shall lapse without any compensation upon notice of
to partially reclaim distributed compensation as a termination of employment being given for any reason
result of special circumstances (clawback). other than redundancy, disability or retirement.
If the employee voluntarily serves notice of 5.15 Guidelines for security holdings
termination of employment, S-SARs (see 5.16.2) In 2012, the Board of Directors decided that the CEO
and RSUs (see 5.16.3) which are unvested at the date Roche Group and other CEC members must acquire
of termination of employment lapse immediately shares and/or NES equivalent to two annual base
without any compensation. salaries (CEO Roche Group since 2018 equivalent to
five annual base salaries) and one annual base salary,
Upon termination of employment as a result of respectively, by the end of 2016 and retain these
serious misconduct, all S-SARs and RSUs granted and holdings for as long as they serve on the CEC. With
outstanding, whether vested or unvested, shall lapse the exception of Cristina A. Wilbur, who joined the
immediately without any compensation. According Corporate Executive Committee in 2016 and who
to the S-SARs plan rules, serious misconduct by the must fulfil the requirement by the end of 2020, all
participant may include (inter alia): other members of the Corporate Executive Committee
• activity leading to serious disciplinary action fulfil this requirement.
• repeated or willful failure to perform such duties
as have been reasonably assigned by Roche 5.16 Security holdings
• violation of any law or public regulation As at 31 December 2017 (as at 31 December 2016,
• commission of a crime respectively) the members of the CEC and persons
• gross negligence or willful misconduct in closely associated with them held securities as shown
employment in the tables ‘Shares and non-voting equity securities
• engaging in conduct bringing disgrace or disrepute (NES)’, ‘S-SARs’, ‘Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)’ below.
to Roche and/or any of its subsidiaries
• violation of any of Roche’s directives and guidelines
relating to business conduct
Type of security Value to be acquired
CEO Roche Group Shares and/or NES 5 × annual base salary
Members of the Corporate Executive Committee Shares and/or NES 1 × annual base salaryRemuneration Report | Roche
145
5.16.1 Shares and non-voting equity securities (NES)
(as at 31 December 2017) (as at 31 December 2016)
Close relatives’ Close relatives’
Shares NES security holdings Shares NES security holdings
(number) (number) (number/type) (number) (number) (number/type)
Corporate Executive Committee
S. Schwan 153,428 27,040 - 138,011 29,836 –
R. Diggelmann - 8,058 - – 5,776 –
A. Hippe 6,970 16,585 - 6,970 13,305 –
G.A. Keller 19,191 18,445 1,100 shares 19,191 18,277 1,100 shares
D. O’Day 3,065 16,091 - 3,065 12,896 –
C. A. Wilbur - 3,141 - – 1,714 –
Total 182,654 89,360 1,100 shares 167,237 81,804 1,100 shares
5.16.2 S-SARs
Number of S-SARs held on 31 December 2017
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Corporate Executive Committee
S. Schwan 85,476 89,517 59,997 54,453 30,000 – –
R. Diggelmann 27,786 29,100 18,006 16,338 17,874 15,000 12,732
A. Hippe 34,191 35,811 24,003 21,783 – – –
G. A. Keller 32,052 33,570 22,503 20,424 – – –
D. O’Day 53,424 55,950 30,000 27,231 – – –
C.A. Wilbur 16,032 15,339 4,164 5,754 4,594 2,122 –
Total 248,961 259,287 158,673 145,983 52,468 17,122 12,732
Price (CHF) 251.90 251.50 256.10 263.20 214.00 157.50 140.10
Market price per NES on
31 December 2017 (CHF) 246.50
Expiry date 16.3.2024 3.3.2023 5.3.2022 6.3.2021 7.3.2020 8.3.2019 28.2.2018
Grant value per S-SAR (CHF) 31.20 29.79 * 43.34 * 47.75 * 36.38 * 24.41 * 15.38 *
Since 1.1.2012:
– Trinomial model for American
call options
* V alues according to
corresponding annual reports146
5.16.3 Restricted Stock Units (RSUs)
Number of RSUs held on 31 December 2017
2016 2015
Corporate Executive Committee
S. Schwan 5,466
R. Diggelmann 1,639
A. Hippe Since 2016 for Corporate Executive Committee 2,186
G. A. Keller replaced by award of corresponding PSPs 2,049
D. O’Day 2,733
C.A. Wilbur 379
Total 14,452
Grant value per RSU CHF 256.10
(NES closing price at grant date on 5 March 2015)
In 2016, RSUs as remuneration component for Committee at the Remuneration Committee’s
the Corporate Executive Committee were replaced discretion. They will be vested to the recipient after
by award of corresponding PSPs. RSUs contain three years only. Thereafter, resulting non-voting
rights to receive non-voting equity securities and/or equity securities may remain blocked for up to
shares after a three-year vesting period plus a value 10 years. With the vesting and blocking periods the
adjustment (being the amount equivalent to the sum interests of the RSU recipients shall be aligned with
of the dividend paid during the vesting period the company’s long-term success and the commitment
attributable to the number of non-voting equity of employees to the company shall be increased.
securities for which an individual award has been
granted). In 2015, for the last time RSU awards were RSUs as a remuneration component will be continued
allocated individually for the Corporate Executive for all other around 20,000 eligible Roche employees.Statutory Auditor’s Report | Roche
147
To the General Meeting of Roche Holding Ltd, Basel
We have audited the accompanying remuneration An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit
report of Roche Holding Ltd for the year ended evidence on the disclosures made in the remuneration
31 December 2017. The audit was limited to the report with regard to compensation, loans and credits
information according to articles 14–16 of the in accordance with articles 14–16 of the Ordinance.
Ordinance against Excessive Compensation in Stock The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s
Exchange Listed Companies (the Ordinance) contained judgement, including the assessment of the risks of
in the sections marked with a grey line, including material misstatements in the remuneration report,
the respective footnotes, on pages 120 to 146 of the whether due to fraud or error. This audit also includes
remuneration report. evaluating the reasonableness of the methods applied
to value components of remuneration, as well as
assessing the overall presentation of the remuneration
Responsibility of the Board of Directors
report.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the
preparation and overall fair presentation of the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained
remuneration report in accordance with Swiss law is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
and the Ordinance. The Board of Directors is also opinion.
responsible for designing the remuneration system and
defining individual remuneration packages.
Opinion
In our opinion, the remuneration report for the year
Auditor’s Responsibility
ended 31 December 2017 of Roche Holding Ltd
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the complies with Swiss law and articles 14–16 of the
accompanying remuneration report. We conducted our Ordinance.
audit in accordance with Swiss Auditing Standards.
Those Standards require that we comply with ethical
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the remuneration
report complies with Swiss law and articles 14–16 of
the Ordinance.
KPMG AG
Ian Starkey Marc Ziegler
Licensed Audit Expert Licensed Audit Expert
Auditor in Charge
Basel, 29 January 2018
KPMG AG, Viaduktstrasse 42, PO Box 3456, CH-4002 Basel
KPMG AG is a subsidiary of KPMG Holding AG, which is a member of the KPMG network of independent firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative
(‘KPMG International’), a Swiss legal entity. All rights reserved.148
Independent Assurance Report on the
Roche Sustainability Reporting 2017
To the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee Protection reporting guidelines’ published by the European
of Roche Holding AG, Basel. Chemical Industry Council CEFIC and the ‘GRI Standards’
published in October 2016 by the Global Reporting Initiative
We have been engaged to perform assurance procedures (GRI);
to provide limited assurance on the aspects of the 2017 • the Roche Group internal Corporate Reporting Manual,
Sustainability Reporting of Roche Holding AG, Basel and its ‘Sustainability Reporting Guidance—Economic Performance’
consolidated subsidiaries (‘Roche’) included in the Annual issued October 1, 2016;
Report 2017 (‘Report’). • the Roche materiality determination process at corporate level
based on the ‘GRI Standards’ published in October 2016 by the
Scope and Subject matter Global Reporting Initiative (GRI); and
Our limited assurance engagement focused on the following • the defined guidelines, by which SHE, people and contributions
data and information disclosed in the Sustainability Reporting key figures, and sustainability risks and opportunities are
of Roche for the year ended on December 31, 2017: internally gathered, collated and aggregated.
• the management of reporting processes with respect to the
Sustainability Reporting in all material aspects and the Inherent Limitations
preparation of Safety, Security, Health and Environmental The accuracy and completeness of sustainability indicators are
protection (‘SHE’), contributions, people key figures as well subject to inherent limitations given their nature and methods
as the related control environment in relation to the data for determining, calculating and estimating such data. Our
aggregation of these key figures; assurance report should therefore be read in connection with
• the materiality determination process of Roche at group level Roche’s internal guidelines, definitions and procedures on the
according to the requirements of the ‘GRI Standards’ and as reporting of its sustainability performance.
disclosed on page 3 of the Report;
• the design of the sustainability risks and opportunities Roche’s Responsibilities
determination process based on Roche corporate-level The Roche Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee
activities, disclosed on page 2 in the paragraph ‘Risk is responsible for both the subject matter and the criteria as well
management’ of the Report; as for the selection, preparation and presentation of the selected
• the people key figures disclosed on pages 68 to 70 of the Report information in accordance with the criteria. This responsibility
and the SHE key figures (including greenhouse gas emissions includes the design, implementation and maintenance of related
for scope 1 & 2 and scope 3 resulting from business travel, internal control relevant to this reporting process that is free
compressed air, liquid nitrogen and waste generated in from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
operations) in the tables and graphs on pages 76 to 83 and
page 98 of the Report; and Our Responsibility
• the figures on the Roche Group level in relation to the political Our responsibility is to form an independent opinion, based on
contributions, disclosed on pages 100 and 101 of the Report. our limited assurance procedures, on whether anything has come
to our attention to indicate that the identified sustainability
We have not carried out any work on data reported for prior information selected and contained in this report is not stated,
reporting periods, nor have we performed work in respect of in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria.
projections and targets.
We planned and performed our procedures in accordance
Criteria with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements
The management reporting processes with respect to the (ISAE 3000) (revised) ‘Assurance engagements other than audits
Sustainability Reporting and key figures were prepared by or reviews of historical financial information’. This standard
Roche based on the internal policies and procedures as set requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement
forth in the following: to obtain limited assurance on the identified sustainability
• the Roche Group internal Sustainability Reporting guidelines information prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance
based on the ‘Responsible Care Health, Safety and Environmental with Roche’s internal policies and procedures.Independent Assurance Report | Roche
149
A limited assurance engagement under ISAE 3000 (revised) is Reviewing the principles of the Roche materiality process
substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance providing the definition for the development of its adherence
engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, to GRI’s environmental, social and economic reporting
including an understanding of internal control, and the requirements addressing the soundness of the identification
procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. process, determination of impacted stakeholders, peer and
Consequently, the nature, timing and extent of procedures for competition review, integration of relevant regulatory
gathering sufficient appropriate evidence are deliberately limited requirements, integration of key organisational values and
relative to a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore less objectives and report prioritisation of material aspects;
assurance is obtained with a limited assurance engagement Inspecting the integration of the sustainability risks and
than for a reasonable assurance engagement. The procedures opportunities in the Group Risk Management Process and
selected depend on the assurance practitioner’s judgement. its adherence to the internal guidelines;
• Assessment of the processes and data consolidation
Our Independence and Quality Control Reviewing the management of/and Sustainability Reporting
We have complied with the independence and other ethical processes for SHE, contributions and people key figures; and
requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants Assessing the consolidation process of data at Roche Group level.
issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for
Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of We have not conducted any work on data other than outlined in
integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, the subject matter as defined above. We believe that the evidence
confidentiality and professional behaviour. we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
for our assurance conclusion.
Our firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1
and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality Conclusion
control including documented policies and procedures regarding Based on our work performed and described in this report on
compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards the identified Roche Sustainability Reporting 2017 nothing has
and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. come to our attention causing us to believe that in all material
respects:
Summary of work performed • the Roche Group internal sustainability reporting guidelines
Our assurance procedures included, amongst others, the based on the ‘GRI Standards’ as well as the ‘CEFIC Guidelines’
following work: are not applied;
• Review of the application of Roche Group guidelines • the Roche materiality determination process at corporate
Reviewing the application of the Roche Group internal level as disclosed does not adhere to the principles and guiding
corporate sustainability and contributions guidelines; factors (eg, soundness, stakeholder determination, peer
• Site visits and management inquiry review, relevance of regulatory environment, integration of
Visiting selected sites of Roche’s Pharmaceuticals and key organisational values and objectives) defined with the
Diagnostics divisions in the US, Germany, Philippines, ‘GRI Standards’;
South Africa and Switzerland. The selection was based • the design of the sustainability risks and opportunities
on quantitative and qualitative criteria; determination process at corporate level as disclosed does not
Interviewing personnel responsible for internal sustainability function as designed;
reporting and data collection at the sites we visited and at • the internal reporting processes to collect and aggregate SHE
the Roche Group level to determine the understanding and and people data are not functioning as designed and provide
application of Roche’s internal sustainability guidelines; an appropriate basis for its disclosure;
• Assessment of the key figures • the internal reporting processes to collect and aggregate
Performing tests on a sample basis of evidence supporting contributions data are not functioning as designed and provide
selected SHE, contributions and people key figures (eg, Roche an appropriate basis for its disclosure; and
accident rate, energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions • the sustainability information mentioned in the subject matter
related to energy consumption, water, waste, contributions to and disclosed within the Sustainability Reporting in the Roche
healthcare institutions, patient organisations, public policy Annual Report 2017 is not stated, in accordance with the
bodies, and philanthropic organisations, headcount/FTE data, reporting criteria.
and training hours) concerning completeness, accuracy,
adequacy and consistency;
• Review of documentation and analysis of relevant policies
and principles Zurich, 01 February 2018
Reviewing relevant documentation on a sample basis, including PricewaterhouseCoopers AG
Roche Group sustainability policies, management of reporting
structures and documentation; Christophe Bourgoin Stephan Hirschi150
Published by
F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd
Key dates for 2018 Group Communications
4070 Basel, Switzerland
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 11 11
Annual General Meeting www.roche.com
13 March 2018
To order/download publications
First-quarter sales Internet: roche.com/publications
26 April 2018 E-mail: basel.warehouse-services@roche.com
Fax: +41 (0)61 688 69 02
Half-year results
26 July 2018 Media Relations
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 88 88
Nine months sales E-mail: roche.mediarelations@roche.com
17 October 2018
Investor Relations
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 88 80
E-mail: investor.relations@roche-global.com
Corporate Sustainability Committee
Tel.: +41 (0)61 688 40 18
E-mail: corporate.sustainability@roche.comImprint | Roche
151
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking The statement regarding earnings per share growth
statements is not a profit forecast and should not be interpreted
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking to mean that Roche’s earnings or earnings per share
statements. These forward-looking statements may for 2018 or any subsequent period will necessarily
be identified by words such as ‘believes,’ ‘expects,’ match or exceed the historical published earnings
‘anticipates,’ ‘projects,’ ‘intends,’ ‘should,’ ‘seeks,’ or earnings per share of Roche.
‘estimates,’ ‘future’ or similar expressions or by
discussion of, among other things, strategy, goals, All trademarks are legally protected.
plans or intentions. Various factors may cause actual
results to differ materially in the future from those Links to third-party pages are provided for convenience
reflected in forward-looking statements contained in only. We do not express any opinion on the content
this Annual Report, among others: (1) pricing and of any third-party pages and expressly disclaim any
product initiatives of competitors; (2) legislative and liability for all third-party information and the use
regulatory developments and economic conditions; of it.
(3) delay or inability in obtaining regulatory approvals
or bringing products to market; (4) fluctuations in The Roche Annual Report is published in German
currency exchange rates and general financial market and English.
conditions; (5) uncertainties in the discovery,
development or marketing of new products or new Our reporting consists of the actual Annual Report
uses of existing products, including without limitation and of the Finance Report and contains the annual
negative results of clinical trials or research projects, financial statements and the consolidated financial
unexpected side effects of pipeline or marketed statements. With regards to content, the Management
products; (6) increased government pricing pressures; Report as per the Articles of Incorporation consists
(7) interruptions in production; (8) loss of or inability of both aforementioned reports with the exception of
to obtain adequate protection for intellectual property the Remuneration Report.
rights; (9) litigation; (10) loss of key executives or
other employees; and (11) adverse publicity and Printed on non-chlorine bleached, FSC-certified paper.
news coverage.Doing
now
what
patients
need nextWe believe it’s urgent to deliver medical
solutions right now—even as we develop
innovations for the future. We are passionate
about transforming patients’ lives. We are
courageous in both decision and action.
And we believe that good business means
a better world.
That is why we come to work each day.
We commit ourselves to scientific rigour,
unassailable ethics, and access to medical
innovations for all. We do this today to
build a better tomorrow.
We are proud of who we are, what we do,
and how we do it. We are many, working
as one across functions, across companies,
and across the world.
We are Roche.F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd
4070 Basel, Switzerland
© 2018
All trademarks are legally protected.
www.roche.com
Cover shows woman diagnosed with cancer.
7 000 996