2002
Annual ReportThreeYears in Brief–Worldwide
% Change
(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Figures) 2002 2001 2000 2002 2001
Sales to customers $36,298 $ 32,317 29,172 12.3 10.8
Net earnings* 6,597 5,668 4,953 16.4 14.4
Cash dividends paid 2,381 2,047 1,724 16.3 18.7
Shareholders’ equity 22,697 24,233 20,395 (6.3) 18.8
Percent return on average
shareholders’ equity 28.1 25.4 26.5 – –
Per Share
Net earnings - basic 2.20 1.87 1.65 17.6 13.3
- diluted 2.16 1.84 1.61 17.4 14.3
Cash dividends paid 0.795 0.70 0.62 13.6 12.9
Shareholders’ equity 7.65 7.95 6.77 (3.8) 17.4
Market price (year-end close) 53.11 59.86 52.53 (11.3) 14.0
Average shares outstanding (millions)
- basic 2,998.3 3,033.8 2,993.5 (1.2) 1.3
- diluted 3,054.1 3,099.3 3,099.2 (1.5) 0.0
Number of employees (thousands) 108.3 101.8 100.9 6.4 0.9
* Net earnings and earnings per share for 2002 include In-process research and development (IPR&D) charges of $189 million or .07 diluted earnings per share
related to the acquisitions of Tibotec-Virco N.V. and Obtech Medical AG. Excluding the impact of these charges, 2002 net earnings increased 16.8% over 2001.
Net earnings and earnings per share in 2001 and 2000 include $231 million or .07 diluted earnings per share and $45 million or .02 diluted earnings per share,
respectively, related to IPR&D and ALZA merger costs in 2001 and IPR&D net of restructuring gains in 2000. For detailed discussion of these charges, refer to
Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Description of the Company Contents
Johnson & Johnson has $36.3 billion in sales 1 Letter to Shareholders
and is the world’s most comprehensive and broadly 5 Editorial Section
based manufacturer of health care products,
24 Board of Directors
as well as a provider of related services, for the
24 Committees of the Board
consumer, pharmaceutical, and medical devices
and diagnostics markets. Johnson & Johnson 26 Corporate Officers and Company Group Chairmen
has approximately 108,300 employees and more 27 Corporate Governance and Management’s Responsibility
than 200 operating companies in 54 countries
28 Management’s Discussion and Analysis
around the world, selling products in more than
38 Consolidated Financial Statements
175 countries.
42 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
On the Cover 56 Independent Auditor’s Report
At the Malvern, Pennsylvania, facility of Centocor, 57 Segments of Business and Geographic Areas
Inc., the new monoclonal antibody manufacturing 58 Summary of Operations and Statistical Data 1992-2002
facility where Joyce Salpan, manufacturing
59 Principal Global Affiliates
associate, foreground, and Chaley Larson, senior
63 Worldwide Family of Companies
supervisor, work will help the company double its
capacity to produce REMICADE®(infliximab) for 67 Corporate and Shareholder/Investor Information
rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn’s disease patients.Letter to Shareholders
William C.Weldon,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
S
trong performance across all segments of our after the Company has made the necessary investments
broadly based health care business in 2002 through capital expenditures to support the growth
enabled Johnson & Johnson to achieve excep- of the business. In 2002, strong free cash flow of $6.2
tional growth in both sales and earnings. billion provided fuel for a $5 billion share repurchase
Record sales of $36.3 billion represented 12.3% growth program, acquisitions of $.5 billion, and the dividend
from 2001. Operational growth was 12.1%, with curren- increase referred to earlier. We did this while maintaining
cy exchange rates contributing a favorable effect, .2%, the Company’s outstanding “triple A” credit rating.
for the first time in seven years. Setting these results in the context of our historical per-
Record net earnings of $6.8 billion, an increase of formance, 2002 was a very good year for our Company,
15.0%, excluding special charges, led to diluted earnings and was consistent with our long tradition of growth.
per share growth of 16.8%, from $1.91 in 2001 to $2.23. In fact, the last time we did not achieve year on year
Against this strong performance, the Board of Directors sales growth was in 1931, during the Great Depression.
increased the quarterly dividend in April 2002 for the Earnings growth, too, has been remarkably consistent,
40th consecutive year, from $.18 per quarter to $.205 per with double-digit gains, excluding special charges, in
quarter, an increase of 13.9%. each of the past 18 years.
Our cash flow from operations continued to be very One of the most important ways we can encourage
strong in 2002, at $8.2 billion. This is net of approximate- long-term consistent performance is through invest-
ly $750 million, after tax, that we invested in our various ments in science and technology. Indeed, the theme
pension plans during the year to ensure their continued of our report this year, “Delivering on the Promise of
strength. More relevant is what we monitor as “free cash Technology,” is evidence of our belief that these
flow,” or the portion of operating cash flow that remains investments are fundamental to both sustaining and
1James T.Lenehan,
Vice Chairman and President
establishing leadership positions that permit us to deliver acquired OraPharma, Inc., a specialty pharmaceutical
superior returns to our shareholders, and make a mean- company. The recently announced agreement to acquire
ingful difference in health care for people around the world. Scios Inc., a California-based company with a product
In each of our business segments, and throughout to treat congestive heart failure and an important biophar-
our worldwide operations, we face the future with opti- maceutical pipeline, is further evidence of this strategy.
mism and commitment because we see many opportuni- We hope to conclude this acquisition in the second quarter
ties for continued growth and development. We pursue of this year.
this growth by managing against a set of broad princi- Our decentralized management system is also reflected
ples: maintaining a broadly based health care business, in our strong performance, as it gives us focus and a
stressing a decentralized system of management, and sense of ownership in local markets through dedicated
managing for the long term on a foundation of values as and empowered management groups. They can quickly
espoused in Our Credo. pursue local avenues of opportunity.
Our extraordinary record of consistent performance is a We focus on managing the Company for the long term;
result of our broad base in human health care. Increasingly, that sustains our performance because it emphasizes
we emphasize collaborations across our technology plat- investment for the future and the importance of true inno-
forms that will enable proprietary positions. The CYPHER™ vation. In 2002, we invested $4.0 billion in research and
Sirolimus-eluting Stent is a promising example of the col- development, 10.2% more than in the previous year.
laborative outcomes we can achieve. At the same time, Since 1999, in our pharmaceutical companies alone, the
we recognize the potential to seize opportunity through research and development staff has grown more than 50%,
both external licensing arrangements and strategic acqui- to 6,700. Recently, we announced the pending acquisition
sitions. In the second quarter, we completed the acquisition of 3-Dimensional Pharmaceuticals, an outstanding organi-
of Tibotec-Virco N.V. of Belgium, an organization focused zation that will be a strategic complement to our pharma-
on developing anti-viral treatments, and early this year ceutical discovery and development research capabilities.
2We are also engaged in a three-year capital invest- and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for LEVAQUIN®
ment program begun in 2001 of more than $500 million for an additional indication for the treatment of nosocomi-
in worldwide research and development across all our al pneumonia, the second most common hospital-acquired
business segments. We are making major enhancements infection. And, extending leadership in the contraceptives
and additions to our facilities and to our information market, we launched ORTHO EVRA®, the first contracep-
technology infrastructure so as to accelerate our ability tive patch, and ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN®LO, a new low-dose
to bring new products to market — to deliver on the oral contraceptive.
promise of technology. But 2002 was not without product challenges. In
Finally, but no less significantly, we sustain our consis- Europe, in a small subset of the patients taking EPREX
tent performance through a culture that is based on a subcutaneously for chronic renal failure, and some tak-
strong system of values. We expect the highest standards ing other erythropoietins, we saw the rare but serious
of ethical behavior throughout our global organization, occurrence of Pure Red Cell Aplasia, an immune
achieved when each of us assumes responsibility for lead- response. Based on our continuing investigation of the
ership and integrity. We are guided in that pursuit by Our issues, we implemented a labeling change for EPREX
Credo, the embodiment of our values, which has now that provides patients with important information about
been in place for 60 years. the safest method of administration. While we recog-
This four-part strategic business model — broadly nize the potential effect on the growth of EPREX as a
based in human health care, decentralized, managed for result of our actions, our urgent priority is to ensure the
the long term, on a foundation of strong values — has safety of patients who rely on this product.
served us well, yielding an enduring record of consistent Our Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment, the
growth and performance. It continues to light our way leading medical device business in the world, repre-
into the future. sents 34.7% of worldwide sales, and saw operational
In terms of business performance, 2002 was a growth of 12.9% in 2002. Strong sales growth was
successful year for Johnson & Johnson, with pharma- achieved across our major areas of business, including
ceuticals once again the largest and fastest growing the Cordis circulatory disease management products;
of our three business segments. Worldwide pharmaceu- DePuy orthopaedic joint reconstruction and spinal
tical sales grew 15.5%, with operational growth of products; Ethicon wound care, surgical sports medicine
14.8%. Importantly, our growth in this area reflects the and women’s health products; LifeScan blood glucose
performance of a number of key products. PROCRIT®/ monitoring products; Ethicon Endo-Surgery minimally
EPREX®, for the treatment of anemia, continued to invasive surgery products; Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics
realize new potential around the world, although the professional diagnostic products, and Vistakon dispos-
entry of a key competitor in the U.S. market will man- able contact lenses.
date increased focus on clinical and competitive advan- The CYPHER Sirolimus-eluting Stent from Cordis, a
tages going forward. Other strong performers were great example of collaboration between our devices
RISPERDAL®, an antipsychotic, for which we have now and pharmaceutical segments, is now available in more
filed an application for use as a treatment for bipolar than 50 countries around the world, with FDA approval
disorder; REMICADE®, a treatment for rheumatoid in the United States hoped for soon. Although the reim-
arthritis and Crohn’s disease, which is now being bursement system in Europe has constrained growth to
reviewed for other indications in immune-mediated dis- some extent, we are pleased with the level of market
eases; DURAGESIC®, a transdermal patch for chronic acceptance for this product. This is a breakthrough tech-
pain; ACIPHEX®/PARIET®, a proton pump inhibitor for nology that will have a significant impact on the health
gastrointestinal disorders which was approved in 2002 and well-being of patients.
for two additional indications, symptomatic gastroin- Other developments included the FDA approval of
testinal reflux disease and the most common cause of VICRYL®Plus suture from Ethicon, the only suture with
peptic ulcers; and TOPAMAX®, an antiepileptic, for an antibacterial coating to reduce the potential for surgi-
which we have now filed for monotherapy treatment cal site infection; the acquisition of Obtech Medical AG,
and for the prevention of migraine headaches in adults. which markets Europe’s leading treatment for morbid
During the year, the Company also received U.S. Food obesity, and its integration into the Ethicon Endo-Surgery
3business; and a favorable FDA panel recommendation two Board members who will retire in April —
for the INDEPENDENCE™iBOT™Mobility System, which Dr. Maxine Singer, a member of the Board since 1991,
we hope to bring to market in 2003. and Robert Wilson, who most recently served as
The Vision Care franchise had an outstanding year, Senior Vice Chairman of the Board. Bob’s contribu-
particularly with the broad acceptance of ACUVUE®2, tions, first to our pharmaceutical businesses and later
further penetration in the Japanese market of 1-DAY to our Corporate management and Board direction,
ACUVUE®, and the growing popularity of ACUVUE®2 were instrumental to our growth over the last decade
COLOURS™ tinted contact lens. and will be greatly missed.
Our Consumer segment continues to deliver solid per- We begin another year with enthusiasm. These are
formance, representing 18.1% of total sales and achieving exciting times. We move ahead with an agenda focused
2002 operational growth of 4.6%. The combined skin on key strategic imperatives — the development of
care businesses of NEUTROGENA®, AVEENO®, CLEAN & innovative product solutions, collaborations across our
CLEAR®and RoC®saw strong growth, particularly broadly based health care business, flawless execution,
through an emphasis on superior science and technology, and leadership. We acknowledge the great heritage on
as did the nutritionals category, most notably SPLENDA® which we stand but see the promise of the future yet to
no-calorie sweetener, now a market leader in the be fulfilled. As we build on that foundation, we move
table top sweetener category and an ingredient in more from strength to strength, recognizing the enormous
than 2,000 brands sold in more than 30 countries, and dedication and power of our workforce now more than
VIACTIV®calcium chews. The new BAND-AID®Brand 108,300 strong. We are grateful for their efforts and for
Liquid Bandage helped the wound care franchise achieve the continued allegiance of you, our shareholders.
strong growth, and is one more example of collaboration Together, you give us confidence that we can harness,
on a proven technology — in this case the prescription and indeed deliver on, the promise of technology to
device DERMABOND®Topical Skin Adhesive — and its improve health care.
adaptation for a new market application.
Against this backdrop, we are confident that we are
well positioned for the future. Our performance in 2002 is
evidence of our shift in recent years to businesses more
firmly rooted in science and technology — higher margin,
proprietary businesses that offer opportunity for sus- William C. Weldon
tained profitable growth. We will continue to seize these Chairman of the Board and
competitive advantages, to capitalize on opportunities Chief Executive Officer
that offer the promise of better health care for people
around the world.
The strength of our leadership, and the diversity of
experiences and background they bring to our organiza-
tion, are key to our continued success. We thank our ded-
icated Board of Directors for the counsel they provide in
James T. Lenehan
this regard. In April 2002, we welcomed David Satcher,
Vice Chairman of the Board and
M.D., Ph.D., to the Company’s Board of Directors.
President
Dr. Satcher, the former Surgeon General of the United
States, is Director of the National Center for Primary Care
at the Morehouse School of Medicine. With regret, we
accepted the resignation of John Snow, who has been March 12, 2003
named to the Cabinet position of Secretary of the Treasury
of the United States. We appreciate the guidance he pro-
vided since 1998 as a member of our Board, and we wish
him well in service to the country.
We acknowledge the outstanding contributions of
4DELIVERING ON THE PROMISE OF TECHNOLOGY
O
urs is a company driven by a mission to
improve human health care. In science and
technology, we see the promise to fulfill
that mission. We deliver on that promise through
collaboration, research, process improvement,
and the dedication of a committed workforce in
common pursuit of better health care for people
around the world.YGOLONHCET
FO
ESIMORP
EHT
NO
GNIREVILED
REMICADE® (infliximab),a mono-
clonal antibody for the treatment
of rheumatoid arthritis developed
by Centocor,is the only biologic
therapy approved by the U.S.FDA
to induce and maintain clinical
remission in patients with moderate
to severe Crohn’s disease.Tanabe
Seiyaku,Ltd.launched REMICADE in
Japan for Crohn’s disease patients.
The Janssen-Cilag and Ortho Biotech
European sales forcesare max-
imizing pharmaceutical sales and
marketing techniques by using new
Customer Relationship Management
technologies to plan sales calls,
share importantdata with peers,
and better serve customers.
Johnson & Johnson,through
Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical and
Janssen Pharmaceutica,is among
the founding members of the
Together Rx™ prescription savings
program thatprovides savings to
eligible Medicare enrollees on
prescription products. Combining the proprietary OROS® delivery technology
For more than 10 years,PROCRIT® from ALZA with an ascending dose profile,CONCERTA®
(Epoetin alfa) – also marketed as (methylphenidate HCl) CII from McNeil Consumer & Specialty
EPREX® and ERYPO™ outside the U.S.
Pharmaceuticals is the first extended-release formulation of
– has helped millions of patients
overcome the anemia associated methylphenidate for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity
with cancer chemotherapy,pre- disorder that minimizes the ups and downs in blood levels that a
dialysis kidney disease,AZT-treated patient can experience with stimulant medications taken several times
HIV,and certain elective surgeries.
a day. Lasting through 12 hours, CONCERTA demonstrates the power
EPREX and ERYPO also are indicated
of OROS to transform the standard pharmaceutical tablet into an
to treatanemia in dialysis patients.
advanced drug delivery system. It uses osmosis, or the natural move-
ment of water through a semi-permeable membrane, to make oral
drug administration more controlled, precise and convenient. It is
incorporated in 13 commercialized products, including CONCERTA. In
2002, the U.S. FDA approved CONCERTA 27 mg extended-release
tablets, offering greater dosing flexibility. CONCERTA is also approved
in many countries in Europe, Latin America and Asia. Shown here,
Katya Alvarez, now a successful college student with ADHD symptom
control from CONCERTA, gets some help heading back to the dormito-
ry from her dad, Julio Alvarez, McNeil district manager.
6The acquisition of Tibotec-Virco expands drug discovery
and research and development capabilities,particularly
in the field of anti-infectives.The Belgium-based biopharma-
ceutical company brought to Johnson & Johnson several promising
compounds now in development for the treatment of HIV and a number
of innovative disease management tools. Tibotec applies the latest
techniques in ultra-high throughput screening, anti-viral profiling,
molecular biology and drug design to discovering and developing new
anti-infective drugs. The company has programs focusing on potential
drugs that are active against drug-resistant strains of HIV, including
two products in early clinical development. Additionally, there are
early stage research programs concentrating on treatments for other
infectious diseases, including Hepatitis C. Virco develops and markets
advanced diagnostic tools based on pharmacogenomic principles
for the clinical management of viral infections, including HIV. Featured
here are, left to right, Gery Dams, senior scientist, Koen Van Acker,
research fellow, and Paula McKenna, director, diagnostic lab operations.
W e create new options for health care across a
range of disciplines in pharmaceutical agents,
medical devices,diagnostics and delivery platforms,
and consumer products.
7Although we are broadly based, we focus on
human health care, from compounds derived
from small molecules and smart technologies that
compensate for the frailties of disease, to patented
formulations to serve growing consumer needs.
The ALZA focus on sophisticated drug
delivery technology-based products
expanded in 2002with theconstruction of
a manufacturing facility in Cashel,Ireland.
Products that incorporate drug delivery technologies
from ALZA have been widely commercialized by com-
panies both inside and outside of Johnson & Johnson
to deliver unique patient advantages. The Cashel
plant, a 60,000 square-foot facility with ample room
for future expansion, adds critical capacity for the
manufacture of products growing in the European
marketplace. At the same time, it reduces pressure on
the production and supply chain operations in the
United States, improving efficiency and enhancing
service. The Cashel site represents the shared com-
mitment of ALZA and Johnson & Johnson engineering
and technical resources to create a manufacturing
center of excellence for drug delivery technology,
says Robert Strickland, managing director of the
Cashel facility, shown here. The company expects to
begin shipping product from the facility in the third
quarter of 2003.
8DELIVERING
ON
THE
PROMISE
OF
TECHNOLOGY
ACIPHEX® (rabeprazole sodium),
co-promoted by Eisai Inc.and
Janssen Pharmaceutica Inc.and
prescribed for gastroesophageal
reflux disease,was approved by
the U.S.FDA as partof the first
seven-day treatmentfor H.pylori
infection,the mostcommon cause
of peptic ulcers.
The U.S.FDA approved LEVAQUIN®
(levofloxacin) Tablets/Injection
and LEVAQUIN® (levofloxacin in
5% dextrose) Injection 750 mg
for the treatmentof nosocomial
(hospital-acquired) pneumonia.
An intricate,state-of-the-artcomputing research net- LEVAQUIN is a fluoroquinolone
anti-infective from Ortho-McNeil
work laboratory which connects major research facilities
Pharmaceutical,Inc.
throughoutthe Companywas created by Johnson & Johnson
A clinical study of the anti-
Networking & Computing Services (NCS) to facilitate product design
epilepsy medication TOPAMAX®
and creation while alleviating roadblocks such as the geographic and (topiramate/topiramate capsules)
time zone differences throughout the Company. In rooms at various Tablets and Sprinkle Capsules,
Johnson & Johnson locations around the world, global researchers use from Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical,
Inc.demonstrated a significant
such advanced communication tools as “high-definition visualization,”
effecton controlling seizures in
which can model science in ways not typically visible to the human newly-diagnosed patients,even
eye, and “grid collaboration,” which connects persons at diverse loca- when used as a stand-alone therapy.
tions via the “Internet2 research network.” This leading-edge technol-
ogy enables massive amounts of data to be exchanged and, over time,
is expected to help Johnson & Johnson businesses reduce the time it
takes to bring a product to the marketplace. James Regina, vice presi-
dent of technology engineering and development, NCS, left, and Stuart
Kippelman, director of advanced technologies research, are pictured
in front of the prototype collaboration system at NCS.
9YGOLONHCET
FO
ESIMORP
EHT
NO
GNIREVILED
The regulatory agenciesof Germany
and the U.K.were the firstto
approve RISPERDAL CONSTA™
(risperidone) from Janssen-Cilag
as the firstatypical antipsychotic
available in the form of a long-
acting injection.This form is now
approved in other European coun-
tries and in New Zealand,Mexico,
Israel and Korea.
Johnson & Johnson acquired
OraPharma,Inc.,a specialty pharma-
ceutical company focused on the
developmentand commercialization
of unique,patented therapeutics.
OraPharma will operate as partof
Personal Products Company and
provides an entry into the oral care
professional marketplace with an
initial focus on the treatmentand
prevention of periodontal disease.
Process excellence – a major focus atJohnson & Johnson –
has resulted in important solutionsto a wide range of formi-
dable challenges. One such solution was successfully implemented
ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN® LO(norgesti-
after an increasing number of patients began raising concerns that a
mate/ethinyl estradiol) from Ortho-
McNeil Pharmaceutical,Inc.is key product marketed by Janssen — DURAGESIC®(fentanyl transder-
the new,low-dose version of the mal system), a medicated patch providing up to three days of relief for
mostprescribed birth control pill patients with chronic pain — was apparently detaching from their skin.
in the U.S.,ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN® The Process Excellence team at Janssen, which included members
(norgestimate/ethinyl estradiol).
from other Johnson & Johnson companies, was charged with resolving
With a lower level of estrogen,the
new version is highly effective. this problem. The team, led by Director of Process Excellence Chris
Herbine, left, and Director of Marketing Jim Eckhardt, right, followed
The U.K.regulatory authority
a specific analytical improvement methodology and concluded that the
granted Janssen-Cilag Ltd.an exten-
sion of its license for DUROGESIC™ detaching problem was mostly related to patients improperly applying
(fentanyl transdermal system) the patch. They designed a program centered on educational materials
beyond cancer to include all types
that clearly described the proper way to apply the patch and a plan to
of severe,chronic pain.Also,
ensure that those patients, caregivers and health care professionals
Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K.in
Japan launched the product who use the product had access to this information. The result was a
(called DUROTEP®) for cancer pain. 42 percent reduction in the complaint rate during a two-year period
and an improvement in customer satisfaction, contributing to a sub-
stantial increase in DURAGESIC sales.
10Centocor will double the manufacturing capacity for
REMICADE® (infliximab) when the new Malvern,
Pennsylvania,facility is fully operational by mid-2003.
REMICADE is a monoclonal antibody used to treat patients with
rheumatoid arthritis and patients with the gastrointestinal disorder,
Crohn’s disease. Hundreds of thousands of patients have been treat-
ed worldwide with REMICADE. Fully capable of meeting current
market demand for REMICADE, Centocor is now poised to maximize
the potential of this product in markets throughout the world. The
facility shown here, where Valerie Ulicny monitors processes, is one
of the largest and most advanced mammalian cell culture and bio-
pharmaceutical bulk production centers in the world. In addition to
the Malvern operation, Centocor produces therapeutic agents using
monoclonal antibody technology in Leiden, the Netherlands.
W e employ dedicated people, give
them state-of-the-art facilities
to work in worldwide, and provide
them with the resources they need to
become the workforce of the future.
11We focus on those imperatives that will enable
us to make a meaningful contribution: on
collaboration across disciplinary lines, a unique
advantage in our broadly based company…
The acquisition of Inverness Medical Limited (IML) has
strengthened the ability of LifeScan to serve the global
diabetes market and helped to enhance the company’s commit-
ment to improve the quality of life for people with diabetes. The
Inverness facility manufactures test strips used by diabetes patients
for blood glucose self-testing as part of the LifeScan ONETOUCH®
ULTRA®, INDUO™, ONETOUCH®ULTRASMART™, SMARTSCAN™and
EUROFLASH®systems. Due to the need to expand research and
development capabilities and production capacity, IML recently initi-
ated new construction as part of a substantial capital investment at
its facilities in Inverness, Scotland, enabling IML to bolster the pro-
duction of test strips and increase new product development. Pictured
checking the quality on a card of strips are Thomas Stevenson, manu-
facturing team leader, left, and Nigel Spiller, manufacturing director.
12DELIVERING
ON
THE
PROMISE
OF
TECHNOLOGY
The stringent quality and production standards of
pharmaceutical manufacturer Janssen-Cilag are applied
to the new CYPHER™ Sirolimus-eluting Stent,giving Cordis
a unique advantage. First in the market worldwide, now available in
countries throughout the world and expected to be available this year
The LAP DISC™ Hand Access Device,
in the United States, the CYPHER Stent is reported to reduce the rate of
introduced by Ethicon Endo-Surgery,
reblockage of coronary arteries. Bare metal stents, the current treat- is used in hand-assisted laparoscopic
ment for clogged arteries, cannot prevent the reblockage that occurs in surgery. Itis enabling less invasive
and less painful surgical procedures,
approximately 30 percent of the world’s stent patients. In trial follow-
and also reduces hospitalization
up at about eight months, binary in-stent restenosis, or reblockage,
and recovery time compared to
occurred in only 3.4 percent of the cases where the CYPHER Stent was traditional surgery.
used. In addition to the Latina, Italy, facility of Janssen-Cilag, where
SURGIFOAM™ AbsorbableGelatin
Francesca Finocchiaro, pictured, inspects coated stents, the CYPHER
Powder from Johnson & Johnson
Stent is manufactured at the Janssen facility in Beerse, Belgium, and at Wound Managementis the only
another plant beginning in 2003. The partnership of device and phar- hemostatic powder thatcomes in a
maceutical technologies that led to the development of the CYPHER self-contained sterile mixing vessel.
Itcan be spread or shaped to con-
Stent was made possible by the diversity of interests in human health
form to irregular surfaces to stop
care distinct to the Johnson & Johnson companies.
bleeding fast.
PROLENE™ 3D PatchPolypropylene
Mesh from Ethicon Products,an
innovative three-dimensional device
for the repair of abdominal wall
hernias,offers a simple,streamlined
insertion technique.Itis designed
to preventmigration and recur-
rence,and provides a new dimen-
sion in comfortand healing.
The MONARCH™ SpineSystemfrom
DePuy AcroMed is a comprehensive
pedicle screw,rod and hook system
for immobilization and stabilization
of spinal segments for the treat-
mentof acute and chronic instabili-
ties or deformities of the thoracic,
lumbar and sacral spine.
13P
EHT
NO
GNIREVILED
Ethicon Endo-Surgeryexpanded
the MAMMOTOME® BreastBiopsy
System productline by intro-
ducing four new probe sizes,which
increases the number of lesions
thatcan be biopsied using this
minimally-invasive technique.
WATCHBAND INCISION™,intro-
duced by CardioVations,a division
of Ethicon,Inc.,combines multiple
technologies to enable endo-
scopic radial artery harvesting.
This results in a significantly
smaller scar thatcan be hidden
behind a watchband and offers
the potential for less trauma
than large-incision surgery.
Japan represents an importantglobal market
Ethicon Endo-SurgeryCompany for Percutaneous Transluminal Coronary
Group Chairman Karen Licitra,right,
Angioplasty (PTCA) balloons manufactured
and LPGA Hall of Famer Kathy
Whitworth on the green atthe 4th by Cordis.The AQUA T3™PTCA Balloon Catheter,
annual Ethicon Endo-Surgery Pink
now available in markets other than the United States,
Ribbon LPGA Pro-Am benefitin
was developed in cooperation with cardiologists in
supportof breastcancer research.
Japan and makes it easier for interventional cardiolo-
Gynecare,a division ofEthicon,Inc., gists to cross and treat challenging lesions. Among
introduced a new productto com-
the unique attributes of the balloon is its innovative
plementits established GYNECARE
TVT™ Tension-free Supportfor sealing technology, which makes for a more efficient
Incontinence productline.The delivery. The balloon is designed to navigate more
GYNECARE TVT with abdominal smoothly through tortuous anatomy, and its tapered
guidesoffers a broader group of
tip aids in crossing of tight lesions. The AQUA T3
health care professionals options to
Balloon Catheter was first launched in Japan and the
treatthe growing female stress
urinary incontinence market. Benelux region of Europe, and will be released in
world markets excluding the United States throughout
the first half of 2003. Here, Cordis associates Donna
Sakaguchi and Shinichi Miyata confer with Dr. Taro
Saito, an interventional cardiologist in Kumamoto.
14…on the research that drives discovery and devel-
opment, and on the investment in facilities and
technologies that make possible the discovery
and development of new health care solutions…
Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus (NPH)
afflicts over 350,000people in the U.S.and
thousands more all over the world.A form of
hydrocephalus characterized by an abnormal accumu-
lation of cerebrospinal fluid in the ventricles of the
brain, this devastating disease, which can be difficult
to diagnose and often goes untreated, causes such
symptoms as difficulty walking, mild dementia and uri-
nary incontinence. NPH can be treated and, in many
cases, symptoms can be reversed with a CODMAN®
HAKIM™Programmable Shunt System from Codman,
a world leader in neurosurgical implants and surgical
products. Now, with the introduction of the CODMAN
HAKIM Programmable Valve, a system that uses a
programmer to adjust the pressure of the valve non-
invasively after a cranial shunt is implanted, the need
for surgical adjustment is eliminated. One NPH patient
who received a CODMAN HAKIM Programmable
Valve is Bob Fowler, right, from Dallas, Texas, who
meets up with Michael McIntyre, senior product
director–hydrocephalus, Codman.
15The acquisition of Swiss-based Obtech Medical AG
provides Ethicon Endo-Surgery the opportunity to offer
surgeons another minimally-invasive alternative,expand
its extensive line of products used in the treatment of morbid obesity
and strengthen its competitive position in advanced technologies. It
exemplifies the way in which Ethicon Endo-Surgery continually seeks
to respond to the diversified needs of surgeons and their patients.
The Swedish Adjustable Gastric Band (SAGB) is an inflatable band
that is fitted around the uppermost part of the stomach during laparo-
scopic surgery, creating a small pouch. Food intake is greatly reduced,
resulting in weight loss. A physician is able to adjust the band’s inner
diameter at any time by injecting or removing fluid through an access
port. Although not yet available in the U.S., the SAGB has been widely
used throughout Europe for the treatment of morbid obesity since
1987 and is also marketed in other countries. Dr. Karl Miller, left,
of Hallein, Austria, and his team, including dietician Monika Zeiner,
seated, work with company representative Franz Buchner, right, to
provide education and support for patients.
…on honing the processes that put flawless execution
within our grasp, that make our investments as
efficient as possible, and that enable us to fulfill our
mission to improve the quality of life.
16DELIVERING
ON
THE
PROMISE
OF
TECHNOLOGY
ONETOUCH® ULTRASMART™Blood
Glucose Monitoring System from
LifeScan,a meter and electronic
logbook in one,automatically
organizes blood glucose results and
other importantdiabetes informa-
tion into meaningful charts and
graphs to help people better man-
age their diabetes.
The Advanced DiagnosticSystems
(ADS) division of Ortho-Clinical
Diagnostics is focused on high
impactproducts in human cancer
diagnosis,monitoring,screening and
patientmanagement.David Atkins,
general manager of the molecular
diagnostics group within ADS,
applies genomic tools ordinarily
used for drug discovery to molecular
diagnostic productdevelopment.
PROMOGRAN® Matrix Wound
Dressingfrom Johnson & Johnson
Wound Managementwas intro-
From the introduction of the first pre-packaged sterile duced as the only chronic wound
bandage in 1892,to the development of the first-ever dressing thatcombines oxidized
regenerated cellulose and collagen.
antibacterial suture,the medical device companies of Johnson Itis indicated for the treatmentof
& Johnson have ushered in many new generations of surgical care. exuding wounds including,butnot
limited to,diabetic,venous and
With the year-end 2002 launch of VICRYL®Plus Antibacterial Suture,
pressure ulcers.
Ethicon Products introduced a new era of devices that may help
reduce the risk of complications associated with surgery. In vitro stud- PRESERVATION™ Minimally
Invasive Uni-compartmental Knee
ies demonstrate that VICRYL Plus is effective against bacteria that
from DePuy Orthopaedics enables
most often cause surgical site infection. In the United States alone,
restoration of softtissue balance
more than 675,000 surgical site infections occur annually, at a cost to assure natural function and
of more than $2 billion to the medical system. More than 60 percent alignment.Itis the only system
integrating both fixed and mobile-
of surgical site infections occur at the incision site. VICRYL Plus
bearing components for minimally
Antibacterial Suture has all the handling characteristics of VICRYL
invasive knee reconstruction.
Suture, the world’s most widely used absorbable suture. Howard
Scalzo, Jr., staff engineer, and Punam Aggarwal, manager–new
product integration, shown here, examine the “active zone” around
the suture in a laboratory dish.
17P
EHT
NO
GNIREVILED
VIACTIV® SoftCalciumChewsfrom
McNeil Nutritionals are now avail-
able in milk chocolate,mochaccino,
caramel and orange cream flavors.
Two chews provide 100percentof
the daily value of calcium.
SPLENDA® No CalorieSweetener
from McNeil Nutritionals has
become a leading low calorie
sweetener in the U.S.grocery
market.SPLENDA can now be
found in more than 2,000prod-
ucts in more than 30countries.
Vistakon Division of Johnson &
Johnson Vision Care,Inc.,introduced
ACUVUE® 2COLOURS™ Brand Contact
Lenses,which offer natural colors
and superior comfort.Launched glob-
ally in 2002,ACUVUE 2COLOURSis Independence Technology delivers on its inaugural
already the number two lens in the
commitment of five years ago to bring new freedom
U.S.cosmetic tintsegment.
to people with mobility-related disabilities.In late 2002,
A new toothbrush launched by
the Orthopaedic and Rehabilitation Devices Panel of the U.S. Food
Personal Products Company,REACH®
and Drug Administration (FDA) unanimously recommended approval
MAX™is clinically proven to reduce
gingivitis.Its rubber bristles of the INDEPENDENCE™iBOT™Mobility System, for which FDA
massage gums and multi-level approval is now hoped for around the second quarter of 2003. The
bristles clean hard-to-reach places
INDEPENDENCE iBOT Mobility System can navigate uneven terrain,
to help preventgum disease.
climb stairs and ramps, and balance at “standing” height on two
NEUTROGENA® Menis a clinically wheels. Also in late 2002, an acquisition led to the recent introduction
proven line of skin care products
of the INDEPENDENCE™iGLIDE™Manual Assist Wheelchair, which
which respond to men’s specific skin
uses proprietary technology to continuously monitor the amount of
care needs.The line contains RAZOR
DEFENSE™ and skin clearing prod- force needed to propel the chair over different types of terrain. Users
ucts designed to turn problem skin propel the chair over carpet and similarly difficult terrain with much
into healthier looking skin. less effort than with traditional manual wheelchairs, which may
reduce the incidence of common problems such as rotator cuff injury
and carpal tunnel syndrome. In the United States, an estimated 2
million people use wheelchairs. Shown here, Sandy Salerno, an occu-
pational therapist from Independence Technology, acquaints William
Scelza with the INDEPENDENCE iGLIDE Manual Assist Wheelchair.
18W e cultivate a leadership – people committed
to making a measurable difference – that will
take this corporation into the future as a global
contributor to better health care…
Brand expansion and customer development
strategies help the Johnson & Johnson
worldwide baby products business continue
to grow.For example, global retail operations in
the dynamic Latin America market focus on five key
franchises. In most, the consumer business in the
region holds the number one or two market position.
Around the world, innovation results from insights into
consumer preferences that serve to expand markets
and grow sales. Recent launches of products such as
JOHNSON’S®Baby Shampoo for Curly Hair — now
available in several Latin America countries and
appropriate for all family members — exemplify the
importance of market expansion through line exten-
sions, brand-building and creative merchandising con-
cepts. Pictured in a retail outlet in Buenos Aires,
Argentina, is Marita Messuti, trade marketing manag-
er, consumer business, Johnson & Johnson de
Argentina S.A. C.e.l.
19…and as a company that has seen and
seized the promise of technology to
improve the quality of life.
Company researchers work with the world’s leading
skin care scientists to bring to the marketplace an array
of technology-driven skin care products to fulfill consumers’ needs
at every age. Johnson & Johnson primarily competes in the traditional
skin care arena, which includes facial, body and hand care. Continu-
ous growth within this franchise has been achieved by the Johnson &
Johnson Consumer Products Company comprehensive adult skin care
franchise, with its CLEAN & CLEAR®, AVEENO®, RoC®, PURPOSE®and
SHOWER TO SHOWER®brands, and the steady stream of beneficial
skin care products from Neutrogena. To ensure that its skin care prod-
ucts meet customer needs, the company conducts extensive market
research and creates innovative marketing programs. For example,
the WB CLEAN & CLEAR Casting Call 2002, sponsored in conjunction
with the WB Television Network and showcasing CLEAN & CLEAR
products, helped make the brand a leading teen skin care line in
the U.S. Marketing staff members, including John Weinstock, group
product director, CLEAN & CLEAR U.S., pictured, worked with beauty
consultants at traveling exhibits.
20DELIVERING
ON
THE
PROMISE
OF
TECHNOLOGY
A revolutionary liquid bandage that is changing
the way consumers treat minor cuts and scrapeswas
introduced by Johnson & Johnson Consumer Products Company.
BAND-AID®Brand Liquid Bandage provides superior protection and
optimal healing, and stays on hard-to-cover areas like fingers and
TYLENOL® Sinus and TYLENOL®
knuckles. The bandage creates a clear seal that keeps out water
ColdDay/NightConvenience Packs
and germs to help prevent infection and promote quick healing, and
from McNeil Consumer & Specialty
stays on until it naturally sloughs off as the wound heals. BAND-AID® Pharmaceuticals each contain
Brand Liquid Bandage contains 2-octyl cyanoacrylate, the same base one package of a day and night
formula to relieve day and night-
material found in DERMABOND®Topical Skin Adhesive, a prescription
time symptoms of sinus pain or
device marketed by Ethicon Products. Both are manufactured by
colds in one convenientbox.
Closure Medical Corporation. Used by physicians to close wounds and
Johnson & Johnson Consumer
incisions in place of stitches or staples, DERMABOND adhesive acts
Products Companysigned an agree-
as a barrier that seals out bacteria that can lead to infection. In 2002,
mentto acquire the COMPEED®
Ethicon Products introduced a thicker formulation of DERMABOND products business worldwide from
that provides better control for physicians. Michael E. Haddad,east- ColoplastA/S.The acquisition
ern division manager, pictured, checks a major retail account’s shelf provides worldwide access to a
comprehensive line of patented
facing of the new BAND-AID®Brand Liquid Bandage.
technologies as well as a platform
to develop a strong European
wound care presence.
SIMPLY STUFFY® andSIMPLY
COUGH™are single ingredient
products for children from McNeil
Consumer & Specialty Pharmaceu-
ticals.Containing only thatmedicine
needed for a specific condition,
one is a nasal decongestantand
the other a cough suppressant
for coughs due to colds.
AVEENO® POSITIVELYRADIANT™
Daily Moisturizer from Johnson &
Johnson Consumer Products
Company uses patented technology
based on the effectof small proteins
in soy in diminishing the appear-
ance of skin pigmentation.Clinically
proven,itgives skin a more even
tone and a smooth texture.
The “Una Gran Familia”campaign
for TYLENOL® (acetaminophen) fea-
tures employees of McNeil Con-
sumer & Specialty Pharmaceuticals
in Las Piedras,Puerto Rico,in a
television commercial.
21If we didn’tdrive 10.6million miles,or if we planted 1,200
acres of trees,we would reduce emissions by the same
amount to be saved over 25years by solar panels at
Neutrogena.The 62,000 square feet of panels, the largest com-
mercial solar rooftop installation in California, generate enough elec-
tricity during the day to power over 550 homes. Developed in close
The Johnson & Johnson Pediatric
partnership with the City of Los Angeles, they will reduce operating
Institute,L.L.C.,is dedicated to the
advancementof maternal and chil- costs and monthly energy consumption for the company by 35 per-
dren’s health care.In partnerships cent. Senaka Nanayakkara, Neutrogena director of facilities engineer-
with health care professionals,devel-
ing, and Angelina Galiteva, director of strategic planning, Los Angeles
opmental specialists and interna-
Department of Water & Power, discuss the initiative here. This project
tional organizations,the Institute
undertakes initiatives thathelp at Neutrogena exemplifies the Johnson & Johnson commitment to the
shape the future of children’s health. use of renewable energy resources. The burning of fossil fuels is the
largest man-made source of greenhouse gases in our atmosphere that
Human health dependson the
health of the planet,and the Com- contribute to climate change. The Johnson & Johnson energy conser-
pany recognizes the links to conser- vation goals have established aggressive targets for reducing green-
vation of the earth’s biological house gas emissions. Over the past decade, carbon dioxide emissions
diversity.Partnerships with The
have increased by a modest 10 percent.
Nature Conservancy and the World
Wildlife Fund advance thatpurpose
and improve the quality of life.
McNeil Canada achieved an imme-
diate 11 percentreduction in CO2
emissions in 2002 with the conver-
sion of all company fleetvehicles
to 10 percentethanol-based fuels
where available.The company rec-
ommends the use of the same more
efficientfuels to employees.
The Campaign for Nursing’s FutureSM,
sponsored by Johnson & Johnson
to address the critical shortage of
nurses,is a U.S.initiative to recruit
and retain nurses and nursing facul-
ty.Itincludes national advertising,
fundraising events,recruiting mate-
rials and a website.
Through Surgical Eye Expeditions,
Johnson & Johnson provided funds
for a self-sustaining eye clinic to
serve the poor and uninsured of
Juarez,Mexico.Since opening in
July,the clinic has examined more
than 250 patients,about40 percent
of whom will return for surgery
upon completion of the clinic.
22A bove all, we remember our longstanding
commitments to our customers,our employees,
our shareholders, and the communities in which
we live and work.
The Yale-Johnson & Johnson Physician Scholars in
International Health program puts physicians in hospi-
tals in countries with limited health and technology
resources.Participants learn about the application of their profes-
sion in developing countries while sharing their medical knowledge
with people there. Johnson & Johnson funding enabled Yale to expand
its offering to physicians in residency training from leading U.S. hospi-
tals and universities and to offer international opportunities to more
experienced career physicians. In the 2001-2002 academic year,
nearly 40 physicians were enrolled in the program. Since the program
began in 1981, more than 215 doctors, including Kimberly Curseen,
M.D., shown here at left, and Tracy-Ann Clarke, M.D., right, have par-
ticipated. According to a Yale study, the program’s alumni exhibit
more caring attitudes toward health care delivery, especially to poor
and under-served communities, than do their non-participant counter-
parts. Research has shown that patients respond more favorably to
treatment when their doctors are compassionate and sensitive.
23Board of Directors
William C. Weldon David Satcher, M.D. Leo F. Mullin
Chairman, Board Director, National Chairman and Chief
of Directors, and Center for Primary Care Executive Officer,
Chief Executive Officer Delta Air Lines, Inc.
Robert J. Darretta Henry B. Schacht Ann D. Jordan
Executive Vice President, Director and Senior Advisor, Former Director of
Finance and Information Lucent Technologies Inc. the Social Services
Management, and Chief Department, Chicago
Financial Officer Lying-In Hospital
Committees of the Board
Audit Benefits Compensation
The Audit Committee, composed The Benefits Committee, composed The Compensation Committee,
entirely of non-employee Directors, entirely of non-employee Directors, composed entirely of non-employee
helps the Board oversee the Company’s reviews the management of the vari- Directors, reviews the compensation
accounting and reporting practices. It ous retirement, pension, health and philosophy and policy of the non-Board
recommends independent public welfare plans that cover substantial- Management Compensation Committee
accountants for appointment by the ly all employees of the Company’s with respect to executive compen-
Board and reviews their performance; domestic operations and employees sation, fringe benefits and other
monitors the adequacy of internal of certain international subsidiaries. compensation matters. The Committee
accounting practices, procedures and The Committee also monitors the also administers the Company’s stock
controls; and reviews all significant performance of the trusts in which option plans and determines the
changes in accounting policies. pension funds are invested. compensation of the members of the
Executive Committee.
James G. Cullen, Chairman Maxine F. Singer, Ph.D., Chairman
Arnold G. Langbo Arnold G. Langbo, Chairman
Leo F. Mullin James G. Cullen
Henry B. Schacht
24Gerard N. Burrow, M.D. Maxine F. Singer, Ph.D. James T. Lenehan
President and Chief President, Carnegie Vice Chairman,
Executive Officer, Institution of Washington Board of Directors,
Sea Research Foundation and President
Robert N. Wilson M. Judah Folkman, M.D. Arnold G. Langbo James G. Cullen
Senior Vice Chairman, Senior Associate in Retired Chairman of Retired President and
Board of Directors Surgery and Director at the Board and Chief Chief Operating Officer,
Children’s Hospital and Executive Officer, Bell Atlantic Corporation
Professor of Cell Biology, Kellogg Company
Harvard Medical School
Finance process for performance evaluation Ann D. Jordan, Chairman
The Finance Committee exercises the of the Committees of the Board. Russell C. Deyo
management authority of the Board Additionally, the Committee reviews M. Judah Folkman, M.D.
during the intervals between Board the Company's management succes- David Satcher, M.D.
meetings. sion plans and executive resources.
Science and Technology
William C. Weldon, Chairman Henry B. Schacht, Chairman The Science and Technology Advisory
Robert J. Darretta Gerard N. Burrow, M.D. Committee is composed of Board mem-
James T. Lenehan Ann D. Jordan bers and the Company’s Vice President,
Leo F. Mullin Science and Technology. It advises the
Board on scientific matters that include
Nominating and Corporate Governance Public Policy
major internal projects, interaction with
The Nominating and Corporate The Public Policy Advisory Committee
academic and other outside research
Governance Committee, composed is composed of Board members and the
organizations, and the acquisition of
entirely of non-employee Directors, is Company’s Vice President, Administra-
technologies and products.
responsible for overseeing corporate tion. It reviews the Company’s policies,
governance matters, reviewing possible programs and practices on public Gerard N. Burrow, M.D., Chairman
candidates for Board membership and health issues regarding the environ- M. Judah Folkman, M.D.
recommending nominees for election. ment and the health and safety of Raymond W. Ruddon, M.D., Ph.D.
The Committee is also responsible employees, and advises and makes David Satcher, M.D.
for evaluating the function and perfor- recommendations to the Board on Maxine F. Singer, Ph.D.
mance of the Board and overseeing the such issues.
25Corporate Officers and Company Group Chairmen
Corporate Officers
William C. Weldon Russell C. Deyo John A. Papa
Chairman, Board of Directors, Vice President, Administration Treasurer
and Chief Executive Officer Executive Committee
Chairman, Executive Committee Brian D. Perkins
Michael J. Dormer Worldwide Chairman,
James T. Lenehan Worldwide Chairman, Consumer Pharmaceuticals &
Vice Chairman, Board of Directors, Medical Devices NutritionalsGroup
and President Executive Committee Executive Committee
Executive Committee
Roger S. Fine Per A. Peterson, M.D., Ph.D.
Robert N. Wilson Vice President, General Counsel Chairman, Research & Development
Senior Vice Chairman, Executive Committee Pharmaceuticals Group
Board of Directors Executive Committee
Vice Chairman, Executive Committee Colleen A. Goggins
Worldwide Chairman, Larry G. Pickering
J. Andrea Alstrup Consumer & Personal Care Group Vice President, Corporate Development
Vice President, Advertising Executive Committee
Christine A. Poon
Michael J. Carey Thomas M. Gorrie, Ph.D. Worldwide Chairman,
Vice President, Human Resources Vice President, Pharmaceuticals Group
Government Affairs & Policy Executive Committee
Stephen J. Cosgrove
Corporate Controller JoAnn Heffernan Heisen Raymond W. Ruddon, M.D., Ph.D.
Vice President, Vice President, Science and Technology
Robert J. Darretta Chief Information Officer
Executive Vice President, Executive Committee Michael H. Ullmann
Finance and Information Management, Secretary,
and Chief Financial Officer Willard D. Nielsen Associate General Counsel
Executive Committee Vice President, Public Affairs
Company Group Chairmen
Robert W. Croce The Executive Committee of Johnson &
William D. Dearstyne, Jr. Johnson is the principal management
Carlos A. Gottschalk group responsible for the operations and
Walter Hak allocation of the Company’s resources.
Karen A. Licitra In addition, several Executive Committee
Dennis N. Longstreet members serve as Chairmen of Group
Eric P. Milledge Operating Committees, which are com-
Patrick D. Mutchler prised of managers who represent key
David Y. Norton operations within the groups, as well as
Gerald M. Ostrov management expertise in other specialized
Jose V. Sartarelli, Ph.D. functions. These Committees oversee and
Joseph C. Scodari coordinate the activities of domestic and
Curt M. Selquist international companies related to each
Pericles P. Stamatiades of the Consumer, Pharmaceutical and
Gerard Vaillant Medical Devices & Diagnostics businesses.
Nicholas J. Valeriani Operating management of each company is
Carol A. Webb headed by a Chairman, President, General
Manager or Managing Director who
reports directly or through a line executive
to a Group Operating Committee.
26Corporate Governance and Management’s Responsibility
Johnson & Johnson is governed by the values set forth in Our Our Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is composed
Credo, created by General Robert Wood Johnson in 1943. These solely of independent directors with the financial knowledge
principles have guided us for many years and will continue to and experience to provide appropriate oversight. We review
set the tone of integrity for the entire Company. At all levels, the internal control matters and key accounting and financial
employees of Johnson & Johnson are committed to the ethical reporting issues with the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
principles embodied in Our Credo and these principles have In addition, the independent auditors, the General Counsel and
been woven into the fabric of the Company. the Vice President, Internal Audit regularly meet in private ses-
The Credo values extend to our accounting and financial sionswith our Audit Committee to discuss the results of their
reporting responsibilities that we have to our shareholders and work including observations on the adequacy of internal finan-
investors. We, the management of Johnson & Johnson, are cial controls, the quality of financial reporting, confirm that they
responsible for the integrity and objectivity of the accompanying are properly discharging their responsibilities and other rele-
financial statements and related information. We are also vant matters.
responsible for ensuring that financial data is reported accurately We regularly review our business results and strategic prior-
and in a manner that facilitates the understanding of this data. ities. Our Executive Committee is continuously involved in the
As evidence of our commitment to this responsibility, we review of financial results as well as developing and under-
maintain a strong system of internal accounting controls, standing strategies and key initiatives for long term growth. Our
encourage strong and effective corporate governance from our intent is to ensure that we maintain objectivity in our business
Board of Directors, continuously review our business results assessments, constructively challenge the approach to business
and strategic choices and focus on financial stewardship. opportunities and issues and monitor our business results and
Our corporate staff of professionally trained internal audi- the related controls.
tors, who travel worldwide, monitor our system of internal Our consolidated financial statements and financial data that
accounting controls that is designed to provide reasonable follow are the responsibility of management. These statements
assurance that assets are safeguarded and that transactions have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles
and events are recorded properly. Our internal controls generally accepted in the United States of America and include
include self-assessments and internal and external audit amounts that are based on our best judgments. We are commit-
reviews of our operating companies. We also require the ted to providing timely, accurate and understandable informa-
management teams of our operating companies to certify tion to our shareholders.
their compliance with our Policy on Business Conduct and we
have a systematic program to ensure compliance with these
policies at all employee levels.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the Company’s independent
auditor, is engaged to audit our financial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP maintains an understanding of William C. Weldon Robert J. Darretta
our internal controls and conducts such tests and other auditing Chairman, Board of Executive Vice President,
procedures considered necessary in the circumstances to express Directors, and Chief Finance and Information
their opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report on page 56. Executive Officer Management, and Chief
Financial Officer
Table of Contents
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
28 Overview
28 Organization
28 Description of Segments
29 Operating Results
34 Financial Position & Capital Resources
35 Other Matters
Audited Consolidated Financial Statements
38 Consolidated Balance Sheets
39 Consolidated Statements of Earnings
40 Consolidated Statements of Equity
41 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
42 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
56 Independent Auditor’s Report
57 Segments of Business and Geographic Areas
58 Summary of Operations and
Statistical Data 1992-2002
2277Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results
of Operations and Financial Condition
Overview Description of Business
Record 2002 sales of $36.3 billion exceeded 2001 sales by The Company has approximately 108,300 employees worldwide
$4.0billion or 12.3% and marked the 70th year of consecutive engaged in the manufacture and sale of a broad range of prod-
positive sales growth. This growth was led by the strong ucts in the health care field. The Company sells products in
performances of the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices virtually all countries of the world. The Company’s primary
&Diagnostics segments. interest, both historically and currently, has been in products
The balance sheet remains strong with cash generated from related to human health and well-being.
operations of $8.2 billion in 2002. Cash dividends per share paid The Company is organized on the principle of decentralized
to shareholders in 2002 increased by 13.6% over 2001 and rep- management. The Executive Committee of Johnson & Johnson
resented the 40th consecutive year of cash dividend increases. is the principal management group responsible for the opera-
The Company continues to be one of few companies with a tions and allocation of the resources of the Company. This
Triple A credit rating. Committee oversees and coordinates the activities of domestic
and international companies which span the Consumer,
Organization
Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices & Diagnostics segments.
Management’s Objectives Each international subsidiary is, with some exceptions,
The Company’s objective is to achieve superior levels of capital managed by citizens of the country where it is located.
efficient profitable growth. To accomplish this, the Company’s In all its product lines, the Company competes with compa-
management operates the business consistent with certain nies both large and small, located in the United States of
strategic principles that have proven successful over time. To America and abroad. Competition is strong in all lines without
this end, the Company participates in growth areas in human regard to the number and size of the competing companies
health care and is committed to attaining leadership positions involved. Competition in research, involving the development
inthese growth segments through the development of innova- and the improvement of new and existing products and
tive products and services. In 2002, approximately $4.0 billion processes, is particularly significant and results from time to
or10.9% of sales was invested in research and development, rec- time in product and process obsolescence. The development of
ognizing the importance of on-going development of new and new and improved products is important to the Company’s suc-
differentiated products and services. cess in all areas of its business. This competitive environment
The Company’s system of management operates on a decen- requires substantial investments in continuing research and
tralized basis. With over 200 operating companies located in 54 inmultiple sales forces. In addition, the winning and retention
countries, the Company views this management philosophy as of customer acceptance of the Company’s consumer products
an asset and fundamental to the success of a broadly based involves heavy expenditures for advertising and promotion.
business. It also fosters an entrepreneurial spirit, combining
Description of Segments
theextensive resources of a large organization with the ability
to react quickly to local market changes and challenges. Consumer
Businesses are managed for the long term in order to sustain The Consumer segment’s principal products are personal
leadership positions and achieve growth that provides an care, including nonprescription drugs, adult skin and hair care
enduring source of value to shareholders. products, baby care products, oral care products, first aid prod-
Unifying the management team and the Company’s dedi- ucts, women’s health products and nutritional products. These
cated employees in achieving these objectives is the Johnson & products are marketed principally to the general public and dis-
Johnson Credo. The Credo provides a common set of values and tributed both to wholesalers and directly to independent and
serves as a constant reminder of the Company’s responsibilities chain retail outlets throughout the world. Major brands in the
to its customers, employees, communities and shareholders. skin and hair care line of products include NEUTROGENA®,
The Company believes that these basic principles, along with its RoC®, AVEENO®, CLEAN & CLEAR®, JOHNSON’S pH5.5®, PIZ
overall mission of improving the quality of life for people every- BUIN®and SUNDOWN®sun care products and SHOWER TO
where, will enable Johnson & Johnson to continue to be among SHOWER®personal care products. Major brands in the over-
the leaders in the health care industry. the-counter line of products include the broad family of
During 2002 as a result of corporate governance issues atcer- TYLENOL®acetaminophen products, adult and children’s
tain companies, government lawmakers enacted the Sarbanes- MOTRIN®analgesic products, IMODIUM®, MYLANTA®and the
Oxley Act of 2002 to protect investors by improving the accuracy PEPCID®Acid Controller from the Johnson & Johnson • Merck
and reliability of corporate disclosures. In light of this legislation, Consumer Pharmaceuticals Co. Major brands in the women’s
the Company has established a more documented, formal health care line of products include CAREFREE®, STAYFREE®,
process around its already existing internal controls, like the o.b.®Tampons and MONISTAT®. Major brands in the baby care
annual certification of compliance by management with our line of products include the JOHNSON’S®Baby line of products
Policy on Business Conduct. The Company continues to evaluate and the PENATEN®and NATUSAN®baby care products. Major
and enhance its internal control processes. Additionally, the first aid products include BAND-AID®Brand Adhesive
Company continues to maintain a strong ethical environment, Bandages and COMPEED®. Major oral care products include the
using the Johnson & Johnson Credo as the overall guide. REACH®brand of toothbrushes. Major products in the nutrition-
als product line include SPLENDA®, a non-caloric sugar substi-
tute, VIACTIV®calcium chews and BENECOL®food products.
28Pharmaceutical Medical Devices & Diagnostics
The Pharmaceutical segment’s principal worldwide franchises The Medical Devices &Diagnostics segment includes a broad
are in the antifungal, anti-infective, cardiovascular, contraceptive, range of products used by or under the direction of health care
dermatology, gastrointestinal, hematology, immunology, professionals. These products include Ethicon’s wound care,
neurology, oncology, pain management, psychotropic (central surgical sports medicine and women’s health products; Ethicon
nervous system) and urology fields. These products are Endo-Surgery’s minimally invasive surgical products; Cordis’ cir-
distributed both directly and through wholesalers and health culatory disease management products; LifeScan’s blood glucose
care professionals for use by prescription by the general public. monitoring products; Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics’ professional
Prescription drugs in the antifungal field include NIZORAL® diagnostic products; DePuy’s orthopaedic joint reconstruction
(ketoconazole), SPORANOX®(itraconazole), TERAZOL®(ter- and spinal products and Vistakon’s disposable contact lenses.
conazole) and DAKTARINTM(miconazole nitrate) antifungal These products are used principally in the professional fields by
products. Prescription drugs in the anti-infective field include physicians, nurses, therapists, hospitals, diagnostic laboratories
FLOXIN®(ofloxacin) and LEVAQUIN®(levofloxacin). Prescrip- and clinics. Acquisitions in the Medical Devices & Diagnostics
tion drugs inthe cardiovascular field include RETAVASE® segment during recent years have been an integral part of an
(reteplase), a recombinant biologic cardiology care product for ongoing process to transform a medical supply business to one
the treatment of acute myocardial infarction to improve blood serving arange of higher technology medical specialties.
flow to the heart and REOPRO®(abciximab) for the treatment of
Operating Results
acute cardiac disease.
Prescription drugs in the contraceptive field include Sales
ORTHO EVRA®(norelgestromin/ethinyl estradiol transdermal In 2002, worldwide sales increased 12.3% to $36.3 billion,
system), ORTHO-NOVUM®(norethindrone/ethinyl estradiol) compared to increases of 10.8% in 2001 and 6.6% in 2000. In
and TRICILEST®(norgestimate/ethinyl estradiol, sold in 2002, sales to the three largest distributors, AmerisourceBergen
the U.S. asORTHO TRI-CYCLEN®) group of oral contraceptives. Corp., McKesson HBOC and Cardinal Distribution, accounted for
Prescription drugs in the dermatology field include RETIN-A 10.3%, 9.8% and 9.2%, respectively, of total revenues. Excluding
MICRO®(tretinoin), a dermatological cream for acne. Prescrip- the impact of foreign currencies, worldwide sales increased
tion drugs in the gastrointestinal field include ACIPHEX® 12.1% in 2002, 13.4% in 2001, and 9.9% in 2000. Price increases
(rabeprazole sodium), a proton pump inhibitor for treating accounted for approximately 1.7%, 1.2% and 1.0% of growth in
erosive gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and duodenal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.
ulcersfrom which the Company derives service revenue as Sales by domestic companies were $22.5 billion in 2002,
this product is co-promoted inthe U.S. with Eisai; IMODIUM® $19.8 billion in 2001 and $17.3 billion in 2000, that represents
(loperamide HCl), an antidiarrheal; MOTILIUM®(domperidone), increases of 13.3% in 2002, 14.5% in 2001 and 11.5% in 2000.
agastrointestinal mobilizer; and REMICADE®(infliximab), a Sales by international companies were $13.8 billion in 2002,
novel monoclonal antibody for treatment of certain Crohn’s $12.5 billion in 2001 and $11.9 billion in 2000, that represents
disease patients. REMICADE®is also indicated for the treatment increases of 10.8% in 2002, 5.4% in 2001 and 0.3% in 2000.
of rheumatoid arthritis. Excluding the impact of the foreign currency fluctuations over
Prescription drugs in the hematology field include PROCRIT® the past three years, sales by international companies
(Epoetin alfa, sold outside the U.S. as EPREX®), a biotechnology increased 10.3% in 2002, 11.8% in 2001 and 7.8% in 2000. For the
derived version of the human hormone erythropoietin that last five years, the annual compound growth rate for sales was
stimulates red blood cell production. Prescription drugs in the 10.0%. Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations,
immunology field include ORTHOCLONE®OKT3®(muromonab- the annual compound growth rate for sales for the 5-year
CD3), for reversing the rejection of kidney, heart and liver period was 12.1%.
transplants. Prescription drugs in the neurology field include All geographic areas throughout the world posted opera-
TOPAMAX®(topiramate), REMINYL®(galantamine) and tional gains during 2002. Excluding the effect of exchange rate
STUGERON®(cinnarizine). Prescription drugs in the oncology fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies,
field include DOXIL®(doxorubicin), an anti-cancer treatment, sales increased 8.3% in Europe, 10.9% in the Western
ERGAMISOL®(levamisole hydrochloride), a colon cancer drug Hemisphere (excluding the U.S.) and 13.6% in the Asia-Pacific,
and LEUSTATIN®(cladribine), for hairy cell leukemia. Africa regions. Including the impact of currency fluctuations,
Prescription drugs in the psychotropic (central nervous sys- sales increased 14.2% in Europe and 12.2% in Asia-Pacific,
tem) field include antipsychotic drugs RISPERDAL®(risperidone) Africa but decreased 2.5% in the Western Hemisphere (exclud-
and HALDOL®(haloperidol) and CONCERTA®(methylphenidate) ing the U.S.). The Company achieved an annual compound
for attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder. Prescription drugs in growth rate of 10.3% for worldwide sales for the 10-year period
the pain management field include DURAGESIC®(fentanyl trans- since 1992 with domestic sales growing at a rate of 12.5% and
dermal system, sold abroad as DUROGESIC®), a transdermal international sales growing at a rate of 7.5%. Excluding the
patch for chronic pain; and ULTRACETTM(tramadol hydrochlo- impact of foreign currency fluctuations, the annual compound
ride), an analgesic for moderate to moderately severe pain. growth rate for the 10-year period was 12.0%.
Prescription drugs in the urology field include DITROPAN XL®
(oxybutynin) for the treatment of overactive bladder.
29Consumer segment sales in 2002 were $6.6 billion, an During the second quarter of 2002, the Company completed
increase of 3.9% over 2001. Of the 3.9% increase in Consumer its acquisition of Tibotec-Virco N.V. for approximately $320 mil-
segment sales over prior year, 4.6% was operational growth lion. Tibotec-Virco N.V. is a privately-held biopharmaceutical
with currency negatively impacting sales growth by 0.7%. company focused on developing anti-viral treatments, with sev-
Domestic sales increased by 4.5% while international sales gains eral promising compounds in development for the treatment of
in local currency of 4.6% were offset by a negative currency infectious diseases including HIV.
impact of 1.5%, resulting in total international growth of 3.1%. During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company received
Consumer sales achieved strong growth in skin care products U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for
(NEUTROGENA®, CLEAN & CLEAR®and AVEENO®) and BAND- LEVAQUIN®(levofloxacin) for an additional indication for the
AID® wound care products, as well as in McNeil Nutritionals’ treatment of nosocomial pneumonia, the second most common
SPLENDA®sweetener products and VIACTIV®calcium chews. hospital-acquired infection. The Company also filed several new
Consumer segment sales in 2001 were $6.3 billion, an drug applications with the FDA. These include TOPAMAX®(top-
increase of 0.8% over 2000. Domestic sales increased by 1.4% iramate) for the prevention of migraine headaches in adults as
while international sales gains in local currency of 6.8% were well as for use as a monotherapy treatment in epilepsy (it is
offset by a negative currency impact of 6.7%, resulting in total currently approved as adjunctive treatment), LEVAQUIN®for a
growth of 0.1%. Consumer segment sales in 2000 were $6.3 bil- five-day treatment of community-acquired pneumonia, and
lion, an increase of 0.4% over 1999. Domestic sales increased by RISPERDAL®(risperidone) as both adjunctive and monotherapy
2.8% while international salesgains in local currency of 4.3% treatments of bipolar disorder.
were offset by a negative currency impact of 6.6%, resulting in a Also in the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company announced
total decrease of 2.3%. a definitive agreement to acquire OraPharma, Inc., a specialty
Pharmaceutical segment sales in 2002 were $17.2 billion, an pharmaceutical company focused on the development and com-
increase of 15.5% over 2001 including 16.4% growth in domestic mercialization of unique therapeutics in oral health care prod-
sales and 13.5% total growth in international sales that includes ucts. The acquisition will provide entry into the oral health
a 2.4% positive effect of currency. Of the 15.5% increase in professional marketplace by providing a synergistic line of pre-
Pharmaceutical segment sales over prior year, 14.8% was due to vention and treatment products to maintain periodontal health.
operational increases, with currency positively impacting sales The transaction is valued at approximately $85 million, net of
growth by 0.7%. cash, and closed in the first quarter of 2003.
Sales growth reflects the strong performance of Pharmaceutical segment sales in 2001 were $14.9 billion, a
PROCRIT®/EPREX®, for treatment of anemia; REMICADE®, a total increase of 17.3% over 2000 including 21.3% growth in
treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn’s disease; domestic sales. Operationally, international sales increased
RISPERDAL®, an antipsychotic medication; DURAGESIC®, a 14.2% but were partially offset by a negative currency impact of
transdermal patchfor chronic pain, and TOPAMAX®,an anti- 4.9%, resulting in total growth of 9.3%. Pharmaceutical segment
epileptic medication. Sales of PROCRIT®/EPREX®accounted sales in 2000 were $12.7 billion, an increase of 12.7% over 1999
for11.8% of total Company revenues for 2002 and 10.6% in including 21.4% growth in domestic sales. Operationally, interna-
2001.Johnson & Johnson markets over 100 prescription drugs tional sales increased 7.6% but were more than offset by a nega-
around the world, with 30.5% of the sales generated outside the tive currency impact of 8.9% resulting in a total decrease in sales
United States. Thirty-three drugs sold by the Company had 2002 of 1.3%. Sales growth was partially offset by the restricted access
sales in excess of $50 million, with 24 in excess of $100 million. of PROPULSID®in a number of markets around the world.
The rate of growth for sales of PROCRIT®and EPREX®was Worldwide sales in 2002 of $12.6 billion in the Medical
slowed in the latter half of 2002 as a result of new competition Devices & Diagnostics segment represented an increase of
for PROCRIT®. Sales growth may also have been affected by 12.9% over 2001. As currency had no impact on sales growth,
rare reports of Pure Red Cell Aplasia (PRCA) in chronic renal the 12.9% total increase is also the operational sales increase
failure (CRF) patients administered EPREX®subcutaneously. over prior year. Domestic sales were up 13.0% and international
The Company’s on-going investigation of PRCA in CRF patients sales increased 12.8% over the prior year.
indicates that the occurrence of PRCA continues to be rare. Strong sales growth was achieved in each of the major fran-
chises within this segment: Cordis’ circulatory disease manage-
ment products; DePuy’s orthopaedic joint reconstruction and
spinal products; Ethicon’s wound care, surgical sports medicine
and women’s health products; LifeScan’s blood glucose monitor-
ing products; Ethicon Endo-Surgery’s minimally invasive surgical
products; Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics’ professional diagnostic
products and Vistakon’s disposable contact lenses.
30During the third quarter of 2002, the Company announced Gross Profit
the final results for SIRIUS, the landmark U.S. study of the Gross profit margin in 2002 was 71.2%, an improvement of 0.8%
CYPHERTMSirolimus-eluting Stent. This drug-eluting coronary over the gross profit margin in 2001 of 70.4%. The improvement
stent is the first of its kind to be recommended for FDA in gross profit margin for 2001 was 1.1% over the gross profit
approval. Clinical results of the CYPHERTMstent indicate a sig- margin in 2000 of 69.3%, an improvement of 0.5% over 1999. The
nificant reduction of in-stent restenosis and revascularization improvement in gross profit margin over the past three years
rates as compared to bare metal stents. The findings confirm was primarily a result of continued improvements in the mix of
the stent’s continued excellent performance in significantly businesses and successful ongoing cost control efforts.
reducing reblockage of coronary arteries in patients with
Selling,General and Administrative Expenses
coronary artery disease. Additionally, in July 2002, the U.S.
Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) made a
increased 8.5%, 7.3% and 4.3% in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respec-
decision to provide accelerated incremental reimbursement
tively. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent
tohospitals for this technology commencing April 1, 2003
to sales were 33.7%, 34.8% and 36.0% in 2002, 2001 and 2000,
undernewly established Diagnostic Related Groups (DRGs).
respectively. As a result of the implementation in 2002 of
Inorder to ensure access to this technology for patients as
Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 01-09 “Accounting
rapidly as possible, HHS has taken the unprecedented step of
for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer or Reseller of
assigning it to new DRGs prior to FDA approval. On October 22,
the Vendor’s Products,” the Company reclassified $687 million
2002, the Circulatory System Device Panel advisory panel voted
and $674 million for 2001 and 2000, respectively, fromselling,
8-0 in favor of FDA approval with recommended conditions,
general and administrative expenses to a reductionof sales and
forthe Company’s drug-eluting coronary stent. The Company is
reclassified $45 million and $49 million of expense for 2001 and
continuing to work with the FDA on their on-going review for
2000, respectively, from selling, general and administrative
product approval.
expenses to cost of products sold.
Also in the fourth quarter of 2002, the FDA’s Orthopaedic and
Advertising expenses, which are comprised of television, radio
Rehabilitation Devices Panel unanimously recommended in favor
and print media, as well as Internet advertising, were $1.5 billion
of FDA approval, with conditions, for the INDEPENDENCETM
in 2002, $1.4 billion in 2001 and $1.4 billion in 2000.
iBOTTMMobility System. The iBOTTMMobility System is a
unique device that offers benefits for individuals with mobility- Research Expenses
related disabilities. The device can be used to navigate difficult Research activities represent a significant part of the
terrain, climb stairs and ramps and balance at standing height Company’s business. These expenditures relate to the develop-
on twowheels. ment of new products, improvement of existing products,
In December 2002, Ethicon received FDA clearance to mar- technical support of products and compliance with governmen-
ket VICRYL®Plus Antibacterial Suture, the first and only suture tal regulations for the protection of the consumers and patients.
designed with an antibacterial agent. Designed to reduce bacte- Worldwide costs of research activities, excluding in-process
rial colonization on the suture, VICRYL®Plus may help reduce research & development charges, were as follows:
the risk of complications associated with surgery. (Millions of Dollars) 2002 2001 2000
Worldwide sales in 2001 of $11.1 billion in the Medical Research expense $3,957 3,591 3,105
Devices & Diagnostics segment represented a total increase of Percent increase
8.8% over 2000. Domestic sales were up 12.1%, while interna- over prior year 10.2% 15.7% 12.2%
tional sales increased 5.1% as sales gains in local currency of Percent of sales 10.9 11.1 10.6
12.1% were offset by a negative currency impact of 7.0%.
Research expense as a percent of sales for the Pharmaceutical
Worldwide sales in 2000 of$10.2 billion in the Medical Devices
segment was 15.7% for 2002, 16.6% for 2001 and 16.4% for 2000
& Diagnostics segment represented a total increase of 3.7% over
while averaging 6.6%, 6.5% and 6.2% in the Consumer and
1999 consisting of gains in local currency of 6.9% that were
Medical Devices & Diagnostics segments for 2002, 2001 and
reduced by 3.2% due to the strength of the U.S. dollar. Domestic
2000, respectively.
sales were up 3.9%, while international sales increased 3.4% as
Significant research activities continued in the Pharma-
sales gains in local currency of 10.3% were offset by a negative
ceutical segment, with spending increasing to $2.7 billion or
currency impact of 6.9%.
9.3%over 2001 representing a compound annual growth rate
ofapproximately 12.2% forthe five-year period since 1997.
Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical Research & Development,
L.L.C., formerly known as the Janssen Research Foundation and
the R.W. Johnson Pharmaceutical Research Institute, is the pri-
mary worldwide pharmaceutical research organization and
additional research is conducted by Centocor, ALZA Corporation
(ALZA), Tibotec-Virco N.V. and through collaboration with the
James Black Foundation in London, England.
31In-Process Research & Development Amgen had retained exclusive rights, but that they did not
In the second quarter of 2002, the Company recorded in- warrant the extraordinary remedy of terminating the contract.
process research & development (IPR&D) charges of $189 mil- Instead, he found that Amgen could be adequately compen-
lion after-tax ($189 million before tax as IPR&D is not generally sated with monetary damages. The arbitrator awarded $150
tax deductible in the U.S.) related to acquisitions. These acquisi- million in damages that was recorded in the third quarter of
tions included Tibotec-Virco N.V., a privately-held biopharma- 2002. This arbitration was the fourth between the parties
ceutical company focused on developing anti-viral treatments since1989. On January 24, 2003, the arbitrator ruled that
and Obtech Medical AG, a privately-held company that markets Amgen was the “prevailing party” in this arbitration, entitling
an adjustable gastric band for the treatment of morbid obesity. itto an award of reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs. Amgen
In the fourth quarter of 2001, the IPR&D charge of $105 mil- has not yet submitted its application for fees and costs. The
lion after-tax ($105 million before tax as IPR&D is not generally Company expensed $85 million in the fourth quarter of 2002
tax deductible in the U.S.) was incurred as a result of the acqui- inconnection with this outstanding claim.
sition of Inverness Medical Technology, a supplier of LifeScan In 2001, in addition to the items indicated above, other
electrochemical products for blood glucose monitoring follow- (income) expense included costs related to the merger
ing the spin-off of its non-diabetes businesses and TERAMed, an withALZA of $147 million and the amortization expense of
early stage medical device company that is developing endovas- approximately $141 million that is no longer required under
cular stent-graft systems for minimally invasive treatment of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Standard No.
abdominal aortic aneurysms and peripheral occlusive disease. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (SFAS No. 142).
In 2000, the Company’s IPR&D charges of $66 million In 2000, in addition to the items indicated above, other
after-tax ($66 million before tax as IPR&D is not generally (income) expense included a favorable adjustment to the costs
taxdeductible in the U.S.) was related to the acquisition of associated with the 1998 global manufacturing restructuring
Atrionix, Inc., a development stage company whose primary charge and the gain on the sale of various product lines.
product is a pulmonary ablation catheter for the treatment of
Earnings Before Provision for Taxes on Income
atrial fibrillation and Crescendo, a company formed by ALZA
Consolidated earnings before provision for taxes on income
forthe purpose of selecting, developing and commercializing
increased 17.6%, 15.0% and 16.9% in 2002, 2001 and 2000,
human pharmaceutical products.
respectively. Excluding the IPR&D and merger charges noted
Interest(Income) Expense inthe previous sections, the increases were 16.3%, 18.1% and
Interest income decreased in 2002 primarily due to the decline 15.8% in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The increase in
in U.S. interest rates and cash expended as part of a stock 2002is due primarily to volume growth, improved gross profit
repurchase program (see page 34). In 2002, the average yield marginsand efficiencies in spending in selling, marketing and
on investments was more than 200 basis points below the aver- administrative expenses.
age yield in 2001. Interest expense in 2002 as compared to 2001 Operating profit by segment for 2002 and 2001 is as follows:
remained relatively constant as there were no significant
Percent
changes in average debt balances.
of Sales
Other (Income) Expense,Net (Millions of Dollars) 2002 2001 2002 2001
Other (income) expense includes gains and losses related to
Consumer $1,229 1,004 18.7% 15.9%
thesale and write-down of certain equity securities of the
Pharmaceutical 5,787 4,928 33.7 33.2
Johnson & Johnson Development Corporation, losses on the
Med Devices & Diag 2,489 2,001 19.8 18.0
disposal of fixed assets, currency gains & losses, minority
Segments total 9,505 7,933 26.2 24.5
interests, litigation settlement expense as well as royalty
Expenses not
income. Additionally, in 2002, other (income) expense included
allocated to
the gain on the sale of the Ortho Prefest product line and the
segments (214) (35)
impact of the Amgen arbitration settlement.
On October 18, 2002, an arbitrator in Chicago denied an Earnings before
effort by Amgen, Inc., to terminate the 1985 license agreement taxes on income $9,291 7,898 25.6% 24.4%
under which Ortho Biotech obtained exclusive U.S. rights
toAmgen-developed erythropoietin (EPO which is sold as
PROCRIT®/EPREX®) for all indications outside of kidney dialysis.
Amgen had filed suit in 1995, claiming that Ortho Biotech had
breached its license rights by improperly making sales of EPO
into Amgen’s exclusive dialysis market. In his decision, the arbi-
trator found that sales had been made into markets where
32The increase in expenses not allocated to segments is primarily NetIncome and Earnings Per Share
due to the decline in interest income in 2002 as discussed in the Worldwide net earnings for 2002 were $6.6 billion, reflecting a
Interest (Income) Expense section. 16.4% increase over 2001. Worldwide net earnings per share for
Consumer segment operating profit increased 22.4% over 2002 equaled $2.16 per share, an increase of 17.4% from the
prior year and reflects an operating profit as a percent to sales $1.84net earnings per share in 2001. Excluding the impact of
improvement of 2.8%. The improvement is due primarily to IPR&D in 2002 and the impact of IPR&D and merger costs in
leveraging ofselling, promotion and administrative expenses 2001, worldwide net earnings were $6.8 billion and net earnings
offset by increased expenditures in advertising. Additionally, per share were $2.23, representing an increase of 15.0% and
theConsumer segment operating profit improved 0.6% as 16.8%, respectively, over 2001. The impact of the non-amortiza-
amortization expense is no longer required under SFAS No. 142. tion per SFAS No. 142 increased net earnings and earnings per
Pharmaceutical segment operating profit increased 17.4% and share by approximately 2.0%. Worldwide net earnings achieved
reflects an operating profit as a percent to sales improvement of a10-year annual growth rate of 21.0%, while earnings per share
0.5%. The Pharmaceutical segment operating profit was nega- grew at a rate of 20.3%. Excluding the impact of an accounting
tively impacted by the cost of the Amgen arbitration settlement change in 1992 and IPR&D in 2002, worldwide net earnings
in 2002 of $150 million in damages and $85 million in legal fees, achieved a 10-year annual growth rate of 15.7%, while earnings
IPR&D related to the Tibotec-Virco N.V. acquisition and offset by per share grew at a rate of 15.0%. The 5-year annual compound
the gain on the sale of the Ortho Prefest product line. There was growth rates for net earnings and earnings per share are 16.3%
no impact ofSFAS No. 142 on operating profit as a percent to and 16.2%, respectively. Excluding the impact of IPR&D and
sales in the Pharmaceutical segment. The Pharmaceutical seg- merger costs, worldwide net earnings achieved a 5-year annual
ment operating profit also included the effectof leveraging growth rate of 14.9%, while earnings per share grew at a rate
marketing expenses. In 2001, the Pharmaceutical operating of 15.0%.
profit included expenses related to the merger with ALZA. Worldwide net earnings for 2001 were $5.7 billion, reflecting
Medical Devices & Diagnostics segment operating profit a 14.4% increase over 2000. Worldwide net earnings per share
increased 24.4% and reflects an operating profit as a percent to for 2001 equaled $1.84 per share, an increase of 14.3% from the
sales improvement of 1.8%. The non-amortization per SFAS No. $1.61 net earnings per share in 2000. Excluding the impact of
142 accounted for 0.8% of the improvement. The remaining IPR&D and merger costs in 2001 and IPR&D net of a favorable
margin improvement over prior year was achieved despite adjustment to the costs associated with the 1998 global manu-
investment spending in support of the Cordis product line. facturing restructuring charge in 2000, worldwide net earnings
Operating profit includes the IPR&D associated with the acqui- were $5.9 billion and net earnings per share were $1.91, repre-
sitions of Obtech Medical AG in 2002 and Inverness Medical senting an increase of 18.0% and 17.2%, respectively, over 2000.
Technology and TERAMed in 2001. Worldwide net earnings for 2000 were $5.0 billion, reflecting a
15.9% increase over 1999. Worldwide net earnings per share for
Provision For Taxes on Income
2000 equaled $1.61 per share, an increase of 15.8% from the
The worldwide effective income tax rate was 29.0% in 2002,
$1.39 net earnings per share in 1999. Excluding the impact of
28.2% in 2001 and 27.9% in 2000. The increase in the effective
IPR&D net of a favorable adjustment to the costs associated
tax rate for the years, 2002, 2001 and 2000 was primarily due
with the 1998 global manufacturing restructuring charge in
tothe increase in income subject to tax in the U.S. and the
2000 and merger costs in 1999, worldwide net earnings were
Company’s non-deductible IPR&D charge. Refer to Footnote 8 to
$5.0 billion and net earnings per share were $1.63, representing
the financial statements for additional information.
an increase of 14.9% and 14.8% respectively over 1999.
Cash Flows and Liquidity
Cash generated from operations and selected borrowings pro-
vide the major sources of funds for the growth of the business,
including working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions,
share repurchases, dividends and debt repayments. Cash and
current marketable securities were $7.5 billion at the end of
2002 as compared with $8.0 billion at the end of 2001.
33Cash generated from operations amounted to $8.2 billion in Contractual Obligations & Commitments
2002, which is less than the cash generated from operations in The Company has long-term contractual obligations primarily
2001 of $8.9 billion. This decrease is due primarily to the funding lease and debt obligations. To satisfy these obligations, the
of the U.S. pension plan of approximately $750 million net of the Company intends to use cash from operations. The following
current tax benefit during 2002. In 2001, there was a change in table summarizes the Company’s contractual obligations and
the timing of salary increases and bonuses paid to employees their aggregate maturities as of December 29, 2002 (see Notes 4
from December 2001 to February 2002. This change was enacted and6 for further details):
to have 2001 results finalized in order to align compensation and Operating Debt
performance. The result of this change was an increase of (Millions of Dollars) Leases Obligations
approximately $450 million in cash flows in 2001 from operating
2003 $138 77
activities due to the payment of the 2001 bonus in 2002.
2004 121 270
Capital Expenditures 2005 101 17
Capital expenditures in 2002 increased to $2.1 billion or 21.3% 2006 86 12
over 2001 and increased 2.5% to $1.7 billion in 2001 over 2000. 2007 67 8
The increase in 2002 is due primarily to expansion of manufac- After 2007 $160 1,715
turing facilities to support new and existing products, invest-
Financial Position & Capital Resources
ments in support of research and investments in information
systems across all business segments. Total Assets & Returns
Total assets increased $2.1 billion or 5.4% in 2002 and $4.2 bil-
Share Repurchases & Dividends
lion or 12.4% in 2001. Of the consolidated assets at year-end
On February 13, 2002, the Company announced a stock repur-
2002, Medical Devices & Diagnostics accounted for 37.1%, 27.4%
chase program of up to $5 billion with no time limit on this pro-
were Pharmaceutical segment assets, 12.5% were Consumer
gram. This program was completed on August 1, 2002, with 83.6
segment assets and 23.0% were general corporate assets. At
million shares repurchased for an aggregate price of $5.0 bil-
year-end 2001, 35.5% and 27.5% of the consolidated assets were
lion. In addition to the 2002 stock repurchase program, the
identifiable to the Medical Devices & Diagnostics and Pharma-
Company has an annual program to repurchase shares for use
ceutical segments, respectively while 10.9% and 26.1% were
in employee stock and employee incentive plans.
Consumer segment and general corporate assets, respectively.
The Company increased its cash dividend in 2002 for
Net intangible assets in 2002 increased 1.9% over 2001 and rep-
the40th consecutive year. Cash dividends paid were $0.795
resented 22.8% of total assets at year-end 2002. Net property,
pershare in 2002, compared with dividends of $0.70 per share
plant and equipment increased to $8.7 billion or 12.8% and
in 2001 and $0.62 per share in 2000. The dividends were
represented 21.5% of total assets at year-end 2002.
distributed as follows:
Shareholders’ equity per share at the end of 2002 was $7.65
2002 2001 2000 compared with $7.95 at year-end 2001, a decrease of 3.8%.
First quarter $ .18 .16 .14 Thedecrease is primarily due to the $5 billion stock repurchase
Second quarter .205 .18 .16 program completed during 2002.
Third quarter .205 .18 .16
Financing & MarketRisk
Fourth quarter .205 .18 .16
The Company uses financial instruments to manage the impact
Total $.795 .70 .62 of foreign exchange rate changes on cash flows. Accordingly,
the Company enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to
On January 6, 2003, the Board of Directors declared a regular
protect the value of existing foreign currency assets and liabili-
cash dividend of $0.205 per share, paid on March 11, 2003 to
ties and to hedge future foreign currency product costs. Gains
shareholders of record as of February 18, 2003. The Company
or losses on these contracts are offset primarily by the effect of
expects to continue the practice of paying regular cash dividends.
foreign exchange rate changes on the underlying transactions.
A 10% appreciation of the U.S. Dollar from December 29, 2002
market rates would increase the unrealized value of the
Company’s forward contracts by $252 million. Conversely, a 10%
depreciation of the U.S. Dollar from December 29, 2002 market
rates would decrease the unrealized value of the Company’s for-
ward contracts by $308 million. In either scenario, the gain or
loss on theforward contract would be offset by the effect of for-
eign exchange rate changes on the underlying transaction.
34The Company enters into currency swap contracts to man- Other Matters
age the Company’s exposure to changes in currency exchange Critical Accounting Policies & Estimates
rates by hedging foreign currency denominated assets and lia- Management’s discussion and analysis of results of operations
bilities. The impact of a 1% change in interest rates on the and financial condition are based on the Company’s consolidated
Company’s interest rate sensitive financial instruments would financial statements that have been prepared in accordance
be immaterial. with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The
The Company does not enter into financial instruments for preparation of these financial statements requires management
trading or speculative purposes. Further, the Company has a to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts
policy of only entering into contracts with parties that have at reported for revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and other
least an “A” (or equivalent) credit rating. The counterparties to related disclosures. Actual results may or may not differ from
these contracts are major financial institutions and the these estimates. The Company’s significant accounting policies
Company does not have significant exposure to any one coun- are described in Note 1, however the Company believes that the
terparty. Management believes the risk of loss is remote. understanding of certain key accounting policies and estimates
Total unused credit available to the Company approximates is essential in achieving more insight into the Company’s operat-
$3.1 billion, including $1.5 billion of credit commitments and ing results and financial condition. These key accounting policies
$0.8 billion of uncommitted lines with various banks worldwide and estimates include revenue recognition, accounting for
that expire during 2003. The Company’s shelf registration filed income taxes, legal and self insurance contingencies, valuation
with the Securities and Exchange Commission enables the of long lived assets, assumptions used to determine the amounts
Company to issue up to $2.6 billion of unsecured debt securities recorded for pensions and other employee benefit plans and
and warrants to purchase debt securities under its medium accounting for stock options.
term note (MTN) program. No MTN’s were issued in 2002. At
Revenue Recognition
December 29, 2002, the Company had $1.8 billion remaining on
The Company recognizes revenue from product sales when
its shelf registration. The Company continues to be one of few
goods are shipped or delivered depending on when title and
companies with a Triple A credit rating.
risk passes to the customer. Provisions for certain rebates, sales
Total borrowings at the end of 2002 and 2001 were $4.1 bil-
incentives, trade promotions, coupons, product returns and dis-
lion and $2.8 billion, respectively. In 2002, net cash (cash and
counts to customers are provided for as reductions in determin-
current marketable securities net of debt) was $3.3 billion. In
ing sales in the same period the related sales are recorded.
2001, net cash (cash and current marketable securities net of
These provisions, the largest of these being the Medicaid
debt) was $5.2 billion. Total debt represented 15.4% of total capi-
rebateprovision, are based on estimates derived from current
tal (shareholders’ equity and total debt) in 2002 and 10.3% of
program requirements and historical experience. The
total capital in 2001. For the period ended December 29, 2002,
Companyalso recognizes service revenue that is received for
there were no material cash commitments. A summary of bor-
co-promotion of certain products. At year-end December 29,
rowings can be found in Note 6.
2002, these revenues were less than 2% of total revenues and
The Company believes that its operations comply in all
are included in product sales.
material respects with applicable environmental laws and regula-
tions. The Company or its subsidiaries are parties to a number of Income Taxes
proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Income taxes are recorded based on amounts refundable or
Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as payable in the current year and include the results of any differ-
Superfund, and comparable state laws, in which the relief being ence between U.S. GAAP accounting and U.S. tax reporting that
sought is the cost of past and future remediation. While it is not are recorded as deferred tax assets or liabilities. The Company
feasible to predict or determine the outcome of these proceed- records deferred tax assets and liabilities based on current tax
ings, in the opinion of the Company, such proceedings would not regulations and rates. Changes in tax laws and rates that may
have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, cash affect these deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded in the
flows or financial position of the Company. future. Management believes that changes in these estimates
would not have a material effect on the Company’s results of
operations, cash flows or financial position.
The Company intends to continue to reinvest its undistributed
international earnings to expand its international operations;
therefore no U.S. tax expense has been recorded tocover the
repatriation of such undistributed earnings. At December 29,
2002, and December 30, 2001, the cumulative amount of undis-
tributed international earnings was approximately $12.3 billion
and $12.1 billion, respectively.
35Legal & Self Insurance Contingencies 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, “Accounting for Costs
The Company records accruals for various contingencies Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities” which is effective for
including legal proceedings and product liability cases as exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31,
theyarise in the normal course of business. The accruals are 2002. The Company will adopt SFAS No. 146 in the first quarter
based on management’s judgment as to the probability of of 2003 and is not expected to have a material effect on the
losses, opinions of legal counsel and where applicable, actuari- Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position.
ally determined estimates. Additionally, the Company records On November 25, 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation
insurance receivable amounts from third party insurers based No. 45 (FIN 45), “Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure
on the probability ofrecovery. As appropriate, reserves against Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of
these receivables are recorded for estimated amounts that may Indebtedness of Others, an interpretation of FASB Statements
not be collected from such third party insurers. No. 5, 57 and 107 and Rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34.”
FIN 45 clarifies the requirements of FASB Statement No. 5,
Long Lived and Intangible Assets
“Accounting for Contingencies,” relating to the guarantor’s
The Company assesses changes in economic conditions and
accounting for, and disclosure of, the issuance of certain types
strategic priorities and makes assumptions regarding estimated
of guarantees. The disclosure requirements of FIN 45 are effec-
future cash flows in evaluating the value of the Company’s fixed
tive for financial statements of interim or annual periods that
assets, goodwill andother non-current assets. As these assump-
end after December 15, 2002 and have been adopted by the
tions and estimates may change over time, it may or may not be
Company. There is no disclosure required at year-end 2002. The
necessary forthe Company to record impairment charges.
provisions for initial recognition and measurement are effective
Employee BenefitPlans on a prospective basis for guarantees that are issued or modi-
The Company sponsors various retirement and pension plans, fied after December 31, 2002, irrespective ofthe guarantor’s
including defined benefit, defined contribution and termination year-end. FIN 45 requires that upon issuance of a guarantee,
indemnity plans that cover most employees worldwide. These the entity must recognize a liability for the fair value of the
plans require assumptions for the discount rate, expected obligation it assumes under that guarantee. The Company’s
return on plan assets, expected salary increases and health adoption of FIN 45 in 2003 is not expected to have a material
care cost trend rates. See Note13 for further detail on these effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or
rates and the effect of a change in these rates on the Company’s financial position.
results of operations. In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46, “Consolidation of
Variable Interest Entities—an interpretation of ARB No. 51,”
Stock Options
which addresses consolidation of variable interest entities.
The Company has elected the use of Accounting Principle Board
FIN46 expands the criteria for consideration in determining
Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,”
whether a variable interest entity should be consolidated by a
(APB 25) that does not require compensation costs related to
business entity, and requires existing unconsolidated variable
stock options to be recorded in net income, as all options
interest entities (which include, but are not limited to, Special
granted under the various stock option plans had an exercise
Purpose Entities, or SPEs) to be consolidated by their primary
price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock
beneficiaries if the entities do not effectively disperse risks
at grant date. Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
among parties involved. This interpretation applies immediately
(SFAS) No. 148 “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation —
to variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003, and
Transition and Disclosure — an amendment of FASB Statement
to variable interest entities in which an enterprise obtains an
No. 123” requires pro forma disclosure of net income and earn-
interest after that date. It applies in the first fiscal year or inter-
ings per share determined as if the fair value method of
im period beginning after June 15, 2003, to variable interest
accounting for stock options had been applied in measuring
entities in which an enterprise holds a variable interest that it
compensation cost. See Notes 1 and 10 for further information
acquired before February 1, 2003. The adoption of FIN 46 is not
regarding stock options.
expected to have a material effect on the Company’s results of
New Accounting Standards operations, cash flows or financial position.
In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, “Accounting for
Asset Retirement Obligations.” The Company will adopt this
standard in 2003 that is effective for fiscal years beginning after
June 15, 2002 and it is not expected to have a material impact on
the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial posi-
tion. In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, “Accounting
for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” which was
effective for the first quarter of 2002. The Company’s adoption
ofSFAS No. 144 did not have a material effect on the Company’s
results of operations, cash flows or financial position. In June
36Changing Prices & Inflation expertise in protein biology with computational and medicinal
Johnson & Johnson is aware that its products are used in a set- chemistry to identify novel targets and rationally design small
ting where, for more than a decade, policymakers, consumers molecule compounds for large markets with unmet medical
and businesses have expressed concern about the rising cost of needs. Scios’ product NATRECOR®is the first novel agent
health care. In response to these concerns, Johnson & Johnson approved for congestive heart failure (CHF) in more than a
has a long-standing policy of pricing products responsibly. decade. NATRECOR®is a recombinant form of a naturally
Forthe period 1992–2002, in the United States, the weighted occurring protein secreted by the heart as part of the body’s
average compound annual growth rate of Johnson & Johnson response to CHF. The drug has several significant advantages
price increases for health care products (prescription and over existing therapies for CHF, the single most common cause
over-the-counter drugs, hospital and professional products) was of hospitalization in the United States for patients over 65.
below the U.S. Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the period. The principal focus of Scios’ research and development
Inflation rates, even though moderate in many parts of the program is small molecule inhibitors, and includes several
world during 2002, continue to have an effect on worldwide potential new treatments for pain and inflammatory diseases,
economies and, consequently, on the way companies operate. In including an advanced p-38 kinase inhibitor program.
the face of increasing costs, the Company strives to maintain its The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter
profit margins through cost reduction programs, productivity of2003, and the Company anticipates an IPR&D charge of
improvements and periodic price increases. approximately $700 million to be incurred in connection with
this acquisition.
Common Stock MarketPrices
The Company’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Cautionary Factors ThatMay AffectFuture Results
Exchange under the symbol JNJ. The composite market price This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements.
ranges for Johnson & Johnson common stock during 2002 and Forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical
2001 were: orcurrent facts and anticipate results based on management’s
2002 2001 plans that are subject to uncertainty. Forward-looking state-
ments may be identified by the use of words like “plans,”
High Low High Low
“expects,” “will,” “anticipates,” “estimates” and other words
First quarter $65.89 54.70 52.34 40.25
ofsimilar meaning in conjunction with, among other things,
Second quarter 65.29 52.00 54.20 42.60
discussions of future operations, financial performance, the
Third quarter 56.50 41.40 57.60 50.00
Company’s strategy for growth, product development, regulatory
Fourth quarter 61.30 53.00 60.97 53.05
approval, market position and expenditures.
Year-end close $53.11 59.86
Forward-looking statements are based on current expecta-
SubsequentEvents tions of future events. The Company cannot guarantee that any
On February 10, 2003, Johnson & Johnson announced that it forward-looking statement will be accurate, although the
signed a definitive agreement with Scios Inc., a biopharmaceuti- Company believes that it has been reasonable in its expecta-
cal company with a marketed product for cardiovascular dis- tions and assumptions. Investors should realize that if underly-
ease and research projects focused on auto-immune diseases. ing assumptions prove inaccurate or that unknown risks or
The Company will acquire Scios in a cash for stock exchange. uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially
Under the terms of the agreement, Scios shareholders will from the Company’s expectations and projections. Investors are
receive $45.00 for each outstanding Scios share. The value of therefore cautioned not to place undue reliance on any for-
the transaction as of the anticipated closing date is expected ward-looking statements. Furthermore, the Company assumes
tobe approximately $2.4 billion, net of cash anticipated to be no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a
acquired, based on Scios’ approximately 59.8 million fully result of new information or future events or developments. The
diluted shares outstanding. Company’s report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
The boards of directors of Johnson & Johnson and Scios 29, 2002 that will be filed in March 2003, will contain, as an
have given their approval to the transaction, which is subject Exhibit, a discussion of various factors that could cause actual
toclearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Anti-Trust Improve- results to differ from expectations. Prior to that filing, investors
ments Act. This transaction is also subject to the approval of the should reference the Company’s report on Form 10-K for the fis-
shareholders of Scios and other customary closing conditions. cal year ended December 30, 2001. The Company notes these
Scios is a biopharmaceutical company developing novel factors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform
treatments for cardiovascular and inflammatory disease. Act of 1995.
Thecompany’s disease-based technology platform integrates
37Consolidated Balance Sheets
Johnson & Johnson and Subsidiaries
At December 29, 2002 and December 30, 2001 (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Data) (Note 1) 2002 2001
Assets
Currentassets
Cash and cash equivalents (Notes 1, 14 and 15) $ 2,894 3,758
Marketable securities (Notes 1, 14 and 15) 4,581 4,214
Accounts receivable trade, less allowances for doubtful accounts $191 (2001, $197) 5,399 4,630
Inventories (Notes 1 and 2) 3,303 2,992
Deferred taxes on income (Note 8) 1,419 1,192
Prepaid expenses and other receivables 1,670 1,687
Total currentassets 19,266 18,473
Marketable securities, non-current (Notes 1, 14 and 15) 121 969
Property, plant and equipment, net (Notes 1 and 3) 8,710 7,719
Intangible assets, net (Notes 1 and 7) 9,246 9,077
Deferred taxes on income (Note 8) 236 288
Other assets (Note 5) 2,977 1,962
Total assets $40,556 38,488
Liabilities and Shareholders’Equity
Currentliabilities
Loans and notes payable (Note 6) $ 2,117 565
Accounts payable 3,621 2,838
Accrued liabilities 3,820 3,135
Accrued salaries, wages and commissions 1,181 969
Taxes on income 710 537
Total currentliabilities 11,449 8,044
Long-term debt (Note 6) 2,022 2,217
Deferred tax liability (Note 8) 643 493
Employee related obligations (Note 5) 1,967 1,870
Other liabilities 1,778 1,631
Shareholders’equity
Preferred stock—without par value
(authorized and unissued 2,000,000 shares) — —
Common stock—par value $1.00 per share (Note 20)
(authorized 4,320,000,000 shares; issued 3,119,842,000 shares) 3,120 3,120
Note receivable from employee stock ownership plan (Note 16) (25) (30)
Accumulated other comprehensive income (Note 12) (842) (530)
Retained earnings 26,571 23,066
28,824 25,626
Less: common stock held in treasury, at cost (Note 20)
(151,547,000 and 72,627,000) 6,127 1,393
Total shareholders’equity 22,697 24,233
Total liabilities and shareholders’equity $40,556 38,488
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
38Consolidated Statements of Earnings
Johnson & Johnson and Subsidiaries
(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Figures) (Note 1) 2002 2001 2000
Sales to customers $36,298 32,317 29,172
Cost of products sold 10,447 9,581 8,957
Gross profit 25,851 22,736 20,215
Selling, marketing and administrative expenses 12,216 11,260 10,495
Research expense 3,957 3,591 3,105
Purchased in-process research and
development (Note 17) 189 105 66
Interest income (256) (456) (429)
Interest expense, net of portion capitalized (Note 3) 160 153 204
Other (income) expense, net 294 185 (94)
16,560 14,838 13,347
Earnings before provision for taxes on income 9,291 7,898 6,868
Provision for taxes on income (Note 8) 2,694 2,230 1,915
Netearnings $ 6,597 5,668 4,953
Basic netearnings per share (Notes 1and 19) $ 2.20 1.87 1.65
Diluted netearnings per share (Notes 1and 19) $ 2.16 1.84 1.61
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
39Consolidated Statements of Equity
Johnson & Johnson and Subsidiaries
Note Receivable Accumulated Common
From Employee Other Stock Treasury
Comprehensive Retained Stock Ownership Comprehensive Issued Stock
(Dollars in Millions) (Note 1) Total Income Earnings Plan (ESOP) Income Amount Amount
Balance,January 2,2000 $16,995 14,768 (41) (399) 3,120 (453)
Net earnings 4,953 4,953 4,953
Cash dividends paid (1,724) (1,724)
Employee stock compensation
and stock option plans 619 (456) 1,075
Conversion of
subordinated debentures 504 504
Repurchase of common stock (973) (973)
Business combinations 77 68 9
Other comprehensive income,
net of tax:
Currency translation adjustment (45) (45) (45)
Unrealized gains/(losses)
on securities (2) (2) (2)
Pension liability adjustment (15) (15) (15)
Reclassification adjustment (52)
Total comprehensive income 4,839
Note receivable from ESOP 6 6
Balance,December 31,2000 $20,395 18,113 (35) (461) 3,120 (342)
Net earnings 5,668 5,668 5,668
Cash dividends paid (2,047) (2,047)
Employee stock compensation
and stock option plans 842 (602) 1,444
Conversion of
subordinated debentures 815 632 183
Repurchase of common stock (2,742) (2,742)
Business combinations 1,366 1,302 64
Other comprehensive income,
net of tax:
Currency translation adjustment (175) (175) (175)
Unrealized gains/(losses)
on securities 8 8 8
Gains/(losses) on
derivatives & hedges 98 98 98
Reclassification adjustment (14)
Total comprehensive income 5,585
Note receivable from ESOP 5 5
Balance,December 30,2001 $24,233 23,066 (30) (530) 3,120 (1,393)
Net earnings 6,597 6,597 6,597
Cash dividends paid (2,381) (2,381)
Employee stock compensation
and stock option plans 806 (489) 1,295
Conversion of
subordinated debentures 131 (222) 353
Repurchase of common stock (6,382) (6,382)
Other comprehensive income,
net of tax:
Currency translation adjustment (10) (10) (10)
Unrealized gains/(losses)
on securities (86) (86) (86)
Pension liability adjustment (18) (18) (18)
Gains/(losses) on
derivatives & hedges (198) (198) (198)
Reclassification adjustment (26)
Total comprehensive income 6,259
Note receivable from ESOP 5 5
Balance,December 29,2002 $22,697 26,571 (25) (842) 3,120 (6,127)
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
40Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Johnson & Johnson and Subsidiaries
(Dollars in Millions) (Note 1) 2002 2001 2000
Cash flows from operating activities
Net earnings $ 6,597 5,668 4,953
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to cash flows:
Depreciation and amortization of property and intangibles 1,662 1,605 1,592
Purchased in-process research and development 189 105 66
Deferred tax provision (74) (106) (128)
Accounts receivable reserves (6) 99 41
Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from acquisition of businesses:
Increase in accounts receivable (510) (258) (468)
(Increase) decrease in inventories (109) (167) 128
Increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities 1,420 1,401 41
(Increase) decrease in other current and non-current assets (1,429) (270) 124
Increase in other current and non-current liabilities 436 787 554
Netcash flows from operating activities 8,176 8,864 6,903
Cash flows from investing activities
Additions to property, plant and equipment (2,099) (1,731) (1,689)
Proceeds from the disposal of assets 156 163 166
Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired (Note 17) (478) (225) (151)
Purchases of investments (6,923) (8,188) (5,676)
Sales of investments 7,353 5,967 4,827
Other (206) (79) (142)
Netcash used by investing activities (2,197) (4,093) (2,665)
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends to shareholders (2,381) (2,047) (1,724)
Repurchase of common stock (6,538) (2,570) (973)
Proceeds from short-term debt 2,359 338 814
Retirement of short-term debt (560) (1,109) (1,485)
Proceeds from long-term debt 22 14 591
Retirement of long-term debt (245) (391) (35)
Proceeds from the exercise of stock options 390 514 387
Netcash used by financing activities (6,953) (5,251) (2,425)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 110 (40) (47)
(Decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (864) (520) 1,766
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year (Note 1) 3,758 4,278 2,512
Cash and cash equivalents,end of year (Note 1) $ 2,894 3,758 4,278
Supplemental cash flow data
Cash paid during the year for:
Interest $ 141 185 215
Income taxes 2,006 2,090 1,651
Supplemental schedule of noncash investing
and financing activities
Treasury stock issued for employee compensation and stock
option plans, net of cash proceeds $ 946 971 754
Conversion of debt 131 815 504
Acquisition of businesses
Fair value of assets acquired $ 550 1,925 241
Fair value of liabilities assumed (72) (434) (5)
478 1,491 236
Treasury stock issued at fair value — (1,266) (85)
Net cash paid for acquisitions $ 478 225 151
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
41Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
1Summary of SignificantAccounting Principles to variable interest entities in which an enterprise obtains an
interest after that date. It applies in the first fiscal year or
Principles of Consolidation interim period beginning after June 15, 2003, to variable interest
The financial statements include the accounts of Johnson &
entities in which an enterprise holds a variable interest that it
Johnson and subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts and
acquired before February 1, 2003. The adoption of FIN 46 is not
transactions are eliminated.
expected to have a material effect on the Company’s results of
New Accounting Pronouncements operations, cash flows or financial position.
In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
Cash Equivalents
(FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
The Company considers securities with maturities of three
(SFAS) No. 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.”
months or less, when purchased, to be cash equivalents.
The Company will adopt this standard in 2003 that is effective
Investments
for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002 and it is not
Short-term marketable securities are carried at cost, which
expected to have a material impact on the Company’s results
approximates fair value. Long-term debt securities that the
of operations, cash flows or financial position. In August 2001,
Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity are
theFASB issued SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment
carried at amortized cost, which also approximates fair value.
or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” which was effective for the
Investments classified as available-for-sale are carried at
first quarter of2002. The Company’s adoption of SFAS No. 144
estimated fair value with unrealized gains and losses recorded
did not have a material effect on the Company’s results of
as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income.
operations, cash flows or financial position. In June 2002, the
Management determines the appropriate classification of its
FASB issued SFAS No. 146, “Accounting for Costs Associated
investment in debt and equity securities at the time of purchase
with Exit or Disposal Activities” which is effective for exit or
and re-evaluates such determination at each balance sheet
disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002.
date. The Company periodically reviews its investments in non-
The Company’s adoption of SFAS No. 146 in the first quarter
marketable equity securities for impairment and adjusts these
of2003 is not expected to have a material effect on the Com-
investments to their fair value when a decline in market value
pany’s results ofoperations, cash flows or financial position.
is deemed to be other than temporary.
On November 25, 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation
No. 45 (FIN 45), “Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Property,Plantand Equipmentand Depreciation
Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. The
Indebtedness of Others, an interpretation of FASB Statements Companyutilizes the straight-line method of depreciation
No. 5, 57 and 107 and Rescission of FASB Interpretation No.34.” overthe estimated useful lives of the assets:
FIN 45 clarifies the requirements of FASB Statement No. 5,
Building and building equipment 20-40years
“Accounting for Contingencies,” relating to the guarantor’s
Land and leasehold improvements 10-20years
accounting for, and disclosure of, the issuance of certain types
Machinery and equipment 2-13years
ofguarantees. The disclosure requirements of FIN 45 are effec-
tive for financial statements of interim or annual periods that The Company capitalizes certain computer software and
end after December 15, 2002. The disclosure provisions have development costs incurred in connection with developing
been implemented and no disclosures were required at year- orobtaining computer software for internal use. Capitalized
end 2002. The provisions for initial recognition and measure- software costs are amortized over the estimated useful lives
ment are effective on a prospective basis for guarantees that are ofthe software, which generally ranges from 3 to 5 years.
issued or modified after December 31, 2002, irrespective of the The Company reviews long-lived assets to assess recoverabil-
guarantor’s year-end. FIN 45 requires that upon issuance of a ity using undiscounted cash flows. When necessary, charges for
guarantee, the entity must recognize aliability for the fair value impairments of long-lived assets are recorded for the amount
of the obligation it assumes under that guarantee. The Com- bywhich the present value of future cash flows is less than the
pany’s adoption of FIN 45 in 2003 has not andis not expected to carrying value of these assets.
have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations,
Revenue Recognition
cash flows or financial position.
The Company recognizes revenue from product sales when the
In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46, “Consolidation of
goods are shipped or delivered depending on when title and
Variable Interest Entities—an interpretation of ARB No. 51,”
riskpasses to the customer. Provisions for certain rebates, sales
which addresses consolidation of variable interest entities. FIN
incentives, trade promotions, product returns and discounts to
46 expands the criteria for consideration in determining
customers are provided for as reductions in determining sales
whether a variable interest entity should be consolidated by a
inthe same period the related sales are recorded.
business entity, and requires existing unconsolidated variable
interest entities (which include, but are not limited to, Special Sales Incentives and Trade Promotional Allowances
Purpose Entities, or SPEs) to be consolidated by their primary The Company has adopted Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF)
beneficiaries if the entities do not effectively disperse risks Issue No. 01-09 “Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to
among parties involved. This interpretation applies immediately a Customer or Reseller of the Vendor’s Products” effective Decem-
to variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003, and ber 31, 2001. All prior periods have been restated to reclassify
42sales incentives and trade promotional allowances from selling, values of these derivatives are recognized in earnings, thereby
general and administrative expenses to either a reduction of offsetting the current earnings effect of the related foreign
sales or cost of sales. Assuch, sales were reduced by $687 mil- currency assets and liabilities.
lion and $674 million for 2001 and 2000, respectively, and cost of The designation as a cash flow hedge is made at the date
products sold increased by $45million and $49 million for 2001 ofentering into the derivative contract. At inception, all deriva-
and 2000, respectively. tives are expected to be highly effective. Changes in the fair
value of a derivative that is designated as a cash flow hedge
Shipping and Handling
and that is highly effective, are recorded in accumulated other
Shipping and handling costs incurred were $518 million, $473
comprehensive income, until the underlying transaction affects
million and $492 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively,
earnings and are then reclassified to earnings in the same
and are included in selling, marketing and administrative
account as the hedged transaction. Fair value of a forward
expense. The amount of revenue received for shipping and
exchange contract represents the present value of the change
handling is immaterial for all periods presented.
in forward exchange rates times the notional amount of the
Inventories derivative. The fair value of a currency swap contract is deter-
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market mined by discounting to the present all future cash flows of
determined by the first-in, first-out method. the currencies to be exchanged at interest ratesprevailing in
the market for the periods the currency exchanges are due,
Intangible Assets
and expressing the result in U.S. dollars atthe current spot
In accordance with SFAS No. 142, no amortization was
foreign currency exchange rate.
recorded for goodwill and/or intangible assets deemed to have
On an ongoing basis, the Company assesses whether each
indefinite lives for acquisitions completed after June 30, 2001.
derivative continues to be highly effective in offsetting changes
Further, effective the beginning of fiscal year 2002 in accor-
in the cash flows of hedged items. If and when a derivative
dance with SFAS No. 142, the Company discontinued the amor-
isno longer expected to be highly effective, hedge accounting
tization relating to all existing goodwill and indefinite lived
is discontinued. Hedge ineffectiveness, if any, is included in
intangible assets. The effect of non-amortization of this good-
current period earnings.
will and these intangible assets was approximately $141 mil-
The Company documents all relationships between hedged
lion before tax for 2002. Intangible assets that have finite
items and derivatives. The overall risk management strategy
useful lives continue to beamortized over their useful lives.
includes reasons for undertaking hedge transactions and
SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill and non-amortizable
entering into derivatives. The objectives of this strategy are:
intangible assets be assessed annually for impairment. The
(1)minimize foreign currency exposure’s impact on the
required initial assessment was completed at June 30, 2002
Company’s financial performance; (2) protect the Company’s
and no impairment was determined. This initial impairment
cash flow from adverse movements in foreign exchange
assessment was updated in the fourth quarter of 2002 and no
rates;(3) ensure the appropriateness of financial instruments;
impairment was determined. Future impairment tests will be
and (4)manage the enterprise risk associated with finan-
performed in the fourth quarter, annually.
cialinstitutions.
Financial Instruments
ProductLiability
Effective January 1, 2001, the Company adopted SFAS No. 133
Accruals for product liability claims are recorded, on an
“Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activi-
undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a liability has
ties,” as amended by SFAS No. 138 “Accounting for Certain
been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reason-
Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities, an
ably estimated, based on existing information. The accruals
amendment of FASB Statement No. 133,” collectively referred
are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes
to as SFAS No. 133. SFAS No. 133 requires that all derivative
available. Receivables for insurance recoveries related to prod-
instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
uct liability related claims are recorded, on an undiscounted
Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each
for the time value of money basis, when it is probable that a
period in current earnings or other comprehensive income,
recovery will be realized.
depending on whether the derivative is designated as part
of a hedge transaction, and if it is, depending on the type of Research and Development
hedge transaction. Research and development expenses are expensed as
The Company uses forward exchange contracts to manage incurred. Upfront and milestone payments made to third
its exposure to the variability of cash flows, primarily related parties in connection with research and development col-
to the foreign exchange rate changes of future intercompany laborations are expensed as incurred up to the point of
product and third party purchases of raw materials denomi- regulatory approval. Payments made to third parties subse-
nated in foreign currency. The Company also uses currency quent to regulatory approval are capitalized and amortized
swaps to manage currency risk primarily related to borrow- over the remaining useful life of the related product. Amounts
ings. Both of these types of derivatives are designated as cash capitalized for suchpayments are included in other intangi-
flow hedges. Additionally, the Company uses forward exchange bles, net of accumulated amortization.
contracts to offset its exposure to certain foreign currency
Advertising
assets and liabilities. These forward exchange contracts are
Costs associated with advertising are expensed in the year
not designated as hedges and, therefore, changes in the fair
incurred. Advertising expenses worldwide, which are
43comprised of television, radio, print media as well as Internet the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assump-
advertising, were $1.5 billion in 2002, $1.4 billion in 2001 and tions that affect the amounts reported. Actual results may or
$1.4 billion in 2000. may not differ from those estimates.
Income Taxes Annual Closing Date
The Company intends to continue to reinvest its undistributed The Company follows the concept of a fiscal year which ends
international earnings to expand its international operations; onthe Sunday nearest to the end of the month of December.
therefore, no U.S. tax expense has been recorded to cover the Normally each fiscal year consists of 52 weeks, but every five
repatriation ofsuch undistributed earnings. At December 29, or six years, as will be the case in 2004, the fiscal year consists
2002, and December 30, 2001, the cumulative amount of of53 weeks.
undistributed international earnings was approximately
Reclassification
$12.3billion and $12.1 billion, respectively.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform
Deferred income taxes are recognized for tax consequences
with current year presentation.
of temporary differences by applying enacted statutory tax rates,
applicable to future years, to differences between the financial Stock Split
reporting and the tax basis of existing assets and liabilities. On April 26, 2001, the Board of Directors declared a 2-for-1
stock split. Shareholders of record at the close of business on
NetEarnings Per Share
May 22, 2001 were issued one additional share of Johnson &
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income
Johnson common stock on June 12, 2001 for each share held
available to common shareholders by the weighted average
as of the record date. All shares and pershare data for all
number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted
periods presented in these financial statements have been
earnings per share reflects the potential dilution that could
adjusted to reflect the stock split.
occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock
were exercised or converted into common stock. 2Inventories
Stock Options At the end of 2002 and 2001, inventories were comprised of:
At December 29, 2002, the Company has 24 stock-based (Dollars in Millions) 2002 2001
employee compensation plans that are described in Note 10.
Raw materials and supplies $ 835 842
The Company accounts for those plans under the recognition
Goods in process 803 605
and measurement principles of Accounting Principle Board
Finished goods 1,665 1,545
Opinion No. 25 “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees”
andits related Interpretations. Compensation costs are not $3,303 2,992
recorded in net income for stock options, as all options granted
under those plans had an exercise price equal to the market 3Property,Plantand Equipment
value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. At the end of 2002 and 2001, property, plant and equipment at
As required by SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based cost and accumulated depreciation were:
Compensation—Transition and Disclosure—an amendment (Dollars in Millions) 2002 2001
ofFASB Statement No. 123,” the following table shows the
Land and land improvements $ 472 459
estimated effect on net income and earnings per share if the
Buildings and building equipment 4,364 3,911
Company had applied the fair value recognition provision of
Machinery and equipment 7,869 6,805
SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,”
Construction in progress 1,609 1,283
tostock-based employee compensation.
14,314 12,458
(Dollars in Millions Less accumulated depreciation 5,604 4,739
Except Per Share Data) 2002 2001 2000
Net income, $ 8,710 7,719
as reported $6,597 5,668 4,953
The Company capitalizes interest expense as part of the cost
Less:
ofconstruction of facilities and equipment. Interest expense
Compensation
capitalized in 2002, 2001 and 2000 was $98 million, $95 million
expense(1) 320 263 189
and $97 million, respectively.
Pro forma $6,277 5,405 4,764 Depreciation expense, including the amortization of capital-
ized interest in 2002,2001 and 2000 was $1.3 billion, $1.1 billion
Earnings per share:
and $1.1 billion, respectively.
Basic—as reported $ 2.20 1.87 1.65
Upon retirement or other disposal of fixed assets, the cost
—pro forma 2.09 1.78 1.59
andrelated amount of accumulated depreciation or amortization
Diluted—as reported 2.16 1.84 1.61
are eliminated from the asset and accumulated depreciation
—pro forma 2.06 1.75 1.55
accounts, respectively. The difference, if any, between the net
asset value and the proceeds is adjusted toearnings.
(1)Determined under fair value based method for all awards, net of tax.
Risks and Uncertainties 4Rental Expense and Lease Commitments
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in Rentals of space, vehicles, manufacturing equipment and office
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in and data processing equipment under operating leases
44amounted to approximately $298 million in 2002, $275 million The Company has access to substantial sources of funds at
in 2001 and $264 million in 2000. numerous banks worldwide. Total unused credit available to
The approximate minimum rental payments required under the Company approximates $3.1 billion, including $1.5 billion of
operating leases that have initial or remaining noncancelable credit commitments and $0.8 billion of uncommitted lines with
lease terms in excess of one year at December 29, 2002 are: various banks worldwide that expire during 2003. Interest
After charged on borrowings under the credit line agreements is
(Dollars
in Millions) 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2007 Total based on either bids provided by the banks, the prime rate or
London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR), plus applicable mar-
$138 121 101 86 67 160 673
gins. Commitment fees under the agreements are not material.
Commitments under capital leases are not significant. The Company’s shelf registration filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission enables the Company to issue up to $2.6
5Employee Related Obligations billion of unsecured debt securities and warrants to purchase
At the end of 2002 and 2001, employee related obligations were: debt securities under its medium term note (MTN) program. No
MTN’s were issued in 2002. At December 29, 2002, the Company
(Dollars in Millions) 2002 2001
had $1.8 billion remaining on its shelf registration.
Pension benefits $ 643 605
Long term debt includes two convertible subordinated
Post retirement benefits 907 878
debentures issued by ALZA prior to its merger with
Post employment benefits 193 168
Johnson & Johnson.
Deferred compensation 335 311
On July 28, 2000, ALZA completed a private offering of the
$2,078 1,962 3% Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Debentures which
Current benefits payable 111 92 were issued at a price of $551.26 per $1,000 principal amount
at maturity. At December 29, 2002, the outstanding 3% Deben-
Employee related obligations $1,967 1,870
tures had a total principal amount at maturity of $1.0 billion
with a yield to maturity of 3% per annum, computed on a
Prepaid employee related obligations of $959 million for 2002
semiannual bond equivalent basis. There are no periodic inter-
are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheet.
est payments. Under the terms of the 3% debentures, holders
are entitled to convert their debentures into approximately
6Borrowings
15.0 million shares of Johnson & Johnson stock at a price of
The components of long-term debt are as follows: $40.102 per share. Approximately 579,000 shares have been
Eff. Eff. issued as of December 29, 2002 due to voluntary conversions
(Dollars in Millions) 2002 Rate% 2001 Rate% by note holders. At the option of the holder, the 3% Debentures
3% Zero Coupon may be repurchased by the Company on July 28, 2003, 2008 or
Convertible 2013, at a purchase price equal to the issue price plus accreted
SubordinatedDebentures original issue discount to such purchase date. The Company, at
due 2020 $ 621 3.00 626 3.00 its option, may elect to deliver either Johnson & Johnson com-
5.25% Zero Coupon mon stock or cash, or a combination of stock and cash, in the
Convertible event of repurchase of the 3% Debentures. The Company, at its
SubordinatedDebentures option, may also redeem any or all of the 3% Debentures after
due 2014 11 5.25 117 5.25 July 28, 2003 at the issue price plus accreted original issue
8.72% Debentures discount. At December 29, 2002 and December 30, 2001, the
due 2024 300 8.72 300 8.72 fair value based on quoted market value of the 3% Debentures
6.95% Notes due 2029 293 7.14 293 7.14 was $813 million and $910 million, respectively.
6.73% Debentures In 1994, ALZA issued the 5.25% Zero Coupon Convertible
due 2023 250 6.73 250 6.73 Subordinated Debentures at a price of $354.71 per $1,000 prin-
7.375% Notes due 2002 — — 200 7.49 cipal amount at maturity. At December 29, 2002, the outstand-
8.25% Eurodollar Notes ing 5.25% Debentures had a total principal amount at maturity
due 2004 200 8.37 199 8.37 of $20 million, with a yield to maturity of 5.25% per annum,
6.625% Notes due 2009 198 6.80 198 6.80 computed on a semiannual bond equivalent basis. There are
5.12% Notes due 2003(2) 60 0.82 60 0.82 no periodic interest payments. Under the terms of the deben-
Industrial Revenue Bonds 39 3.85 39 5.30 tures, note holders are entitled to convert their debentures
Other, principally into approximately 24.0 million shares of Johnson & Johnson
international 127 — 163 — stock at a price of $13.939 per share. Approximately 23.5 mil-
2,099 5.85(1) 2,445 5.98(1) lion shares of Johnson & Johnson stock have been issued as at
Less current portion 77 228 December 29, 2002 due to voluntary conversions by note hold-
ers. At the option of the holder, the 5.25% Debentures may be
$2,022 2,217
purchased by the Company on July 14, 2004 or July 14, 2009,
(1)Weighted average effective rate. at a purchase price equal to the issue price plus accreted
(2)Represents 5.12% U.S. Dollar notes due 2003 issued by a Japanese original issue discount to such purchase date. At December 29,
subsidiary and converted to a 0.82% fixed rate yen note via a currency swap.
2002 and December 30, 2001, the fair value based on quoted
45market value of the 5.25% Debentures was $27 million and The weighted average amortization periods for patents and
$339 million, respectively. trademarks and other intangible assets are 16 years and 18
Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term years, respectively. The amortization expense of amortizable
debtamounted to $2.1 billion at the end of 2002. These intangible assets forthe fiscal year ended December 29, 2002
borrowings are comprised of $1.6 billion of commercial paper was $405 millionpre-tax and the estimated amortization
and $468 million of local borrowings, principally by interna- expense for the fivesucceeding years approximates $425
tional subsidiaries. million pre-tax, per year,respectively.
Aggregate maturities of long-term obligations commencing
in 2003 are: 8Income Taxes
After The provision for taxes on income consists of:
(Dollars in Millions) 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2007
(Dollars in Millions) 2002 2001 2000
$77 270 17 12 8 1,715
Currently payable:
U.S. taxes $2,042 1,726 1,375
7Intangible Assets International taxes 726 610 668
At the end of 2002 and 2001, the gross and net amounts of
2,768 2,336 2,043
intangible assets were:
Deferred:
(Dollars in Millions) 2002 2001
U.S. taxes 20 (22) (36)
Goodwill—gross $ 5,320 5,245
International taxes (94) (84) (92)
Less accumulated amortization 667 674
(74) (106) (128)
Goodwill—net $ 4,653 4,571
$2,694 2,230 1,915
Trademarks (non-amortizable)—gross $ 1,021 935
A comparison of income tax expense at the federal statutory
Less accumulated amortization 138 132
rate of 35% in 2002, 2001 and 2000, to the Company’s effective
Trademarks (non-amortizable)—net $ 883 803
tax rate is as follows:
Patents and trademarks—gross $ 2,016 1,881 (Dollars in Millions) 2002 2001 2000
Less accumulated amortization 534 376 U.S. $6,189 4,744 3,892
International 3,102 3,154 2,976
Patents and trademarks—net $ 1,482 1,505
Earnings before taxes
Other intangibles—gross $ 2,998 2,849
on income: $9,291 7,898 6,868
Less accumulated amortization 770 651
Statutory taxes $3,252 2,764 2,404
Other intangibles—net $ 2,228 2,198
Tax rates:
Statutory 35.0% 35.0% 35.0%
Total intangible assets—gross $11,355 10,910
Puerto Rico and
Less accumulated amortization 2,109 1,833
Ireland operations (4.5) (5.4) (5.0)
Total intangible assets—net $ 9,246 9,077 Research tax credits (0.7) (0.4) (0.8)
Domestic state and local 1.2 0.9 0.8
Goodwill as of December 29, 2002 as allocated by segments of
International
business is as follows:
subsidiaries
Med Dev excluding Ireland (2.2) (2.6) (2.9)
(Dollars in Millions) Consumer Pharm & Diag Total IPR&D 0.7 0.5 0.3
Goodwill, net of All other (0.5) 0.2 0.5
accumulated
Effective tax rate 29.0% 28.2% 27.9%
amortization at
December 30, 2001 $ 806 232 3,533 4,571
During 2002, the Company had subsidiaries operating in
Reclassification of
Puerto Rico under a tax incentive grant expiring in 2014. In
intangibles, net of
addition, the Company has subsidiaries manufacturing in Ireland
accumulated
under an incentive tax rate effective through the year 2010.
amortization — (109) — (109)
Acquisitions — 150 60 210
Translation & other 15 (29) (5) (19)
Goodwill at
December 29, 2002 $ 821 244 3,588 4,653
46Temporary differences and carry forwards for 2002 and 10Common Stock,Stock Option Plans and Stock
2001 are asfollows: Compensation Agreements
2002 2001
At December 29, 2002 the Company had 24 stock-based com-
Deferred Tax Deferred Tax
pensation plans. Under the 2000 Stock Option Plan, the Com-
(Dollars in Millions) Asset Liability Asset Liability pany may grant options to its employees for up to 1.6% of the
Employee related issued shares of the Company’s Common Stock, plus the num-
obligations $ 443 625 ber of shares available from the previous year that were not
Depreciation (318) (294) issued, as well as shares issued under the Plan that expired
Non-deductible orterminated without being exercised. The shares outstanding
intangibles (931) (959) are for contracts under the Company’s 1991, 1995 and 2000
International R&D Employee Stock Option Plans, the 1997 Non-Employee Direc-
capitalized for tax 340 237 tor’s Plan and the Mitek, Cordis, Biosense, Gynecare, Centocor,
Reserves & liabilities 479 636 Innovasive Devices, ALZAand Inverness Stock Option Plans.
Income reported Stock options generally expire 10 years from the date they
for tax purposes 343 313 are granted and vest over service periods that range from one
Miscellaneous to six years. All options are granted at current market price
international 359 (278) 275 (260) on the date of grant. Shares available, under the 2000 Stock
Capitalized intangible 139 156 Option Plan, for future grants are based on 1.6% of the issued
Miscellaneous U.S. 354 183 shares each year, and 49.9 million shares could be granted
Total deferred each year during the years 2002 through 2005, in addition to
income taxes $2,457 (1,527) 2,425 (1,513) any other available shares as described above. Shares avail-
able for future grants under the 2000 plan were 62.1 million
The difference between the net deferred tax on income per atthe end of 2002.
thebalance sheet and the net deferred tax above is included A summary of the status of the Company’s stock option
in Taxes on Income on the balance sheet. plans as of December 29, 2002, December 30, 2001 and
December 31, 2000 and changes during the years ending on
9International Currency Translation those dates, ispresentedbelow:
Weighted
For translation of its subsidiaries operating in non-U.S. dollar Options Average
currencies, the Company has determined that the local curren- (Shares in Thousands) Outstanding Exercise Price
cies of its international subsidiaries are the functional curren- Balance at January 2, 2000 181,486 $25.65
cies except those in highly inflationary economies, which are Options granted 46,456 48.29
defined as those which have had compound cumulative rates of Options exercised (27,130) 15.22
inflation of 100% or more during the past three years. Options canceled/forfeited (6,824) 33.03
In consolidating international subsidiaries, balance sheet cur- Balance at December 31, 2000 193,988 32.27
rency effects are recorded as a component of accumulated other Options granted 8,975(1) 36.31
comprehensive income. This equity account includes the results of Options exercised (30,622) 19.00
translating all balance sheet assets and liabilities at current Options canceled/forfeited (5,117) 49.38
exchange rates, except for those located in highly inflationary
Balance at December 30, 2001 167,224 34.37
economies which are reflected in operating results.
Options granted 48,072 57.30
An analysis of the changes during 2002 and 2001 for foreign
Options exercised (21,012) 19.64
currency translation adjustments is included in Note 12.
Options canceled/forfeited (4,543) 50.86
Net currency transaction and translation gains and
lossesincluded in other expense were after-tax losses of Balance at December 29, 2002 189,741 $41.42
$25million, $3 million and $65 million, in 2002, 2001
(1)Includes 3,108 options issued to replace Inverness options outstanding at or
and2000, respectively.
granted prior to the acquisition.
47For the year ended December 30, 2001, there was a change 12Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
inthe timing of granting stock compensation and options to
Components of other comprehensive income/(loss) consist of
employees from December 2001 to February 2002. This
the following:
change was enacted to have 2001 results finalized in order to Total
align compensation with performance. The same timing of Unrealized Gains/ Accumulated
Foreign Gains/ Pension (Losses) on Other
grants will be followed for fiscal 2002. Currency (Losses) Liability Derivatives Comprehensive
(Dollars in Millions) Translation on Securities Adjustments & Hedges Income/(Loss)
The average fair value of options granted was $15.49 in Jan. 2, 2000 $(477) 78 (399)
2002, $13.72 in 2001 and $14.79 in 2000. The fair value was 2000 changes (45) (2) (15) (62)
estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model based
Dec. 31, 2000 $(522) 76 (15) (461)
on the weighted average assumptions of:
2001 changes
2002 2001 2000
Transition
Risk-free rate 4.39% 4.87% 5.45% Adjustment — — — 17
Volatility 26.0% 27.0% 27.0% Net change due
Expected life 5.0 yrs 5.0 yrs 5.0 yrs to hedging
Dividend yield 1.33% 1.33% 1.40% transactions — — — 228
Net amount
The following table summarizes stock options outstanding and
reclassed to
exercisable at December 29, 2002:
net earnings — — — (147)
(Shares in Thousands) Outstanding Exercisable
Net 2001
Average Average
Exercise Average Exercise Exercise changes (175) 8 — 98 (69)
Price Range Options Life(a) Price Options Price
Dec. 30, 2001 $(697) 84 (15) 98 (530)
$.79-$11.15 5,572 1.2 $10.29 5,572 $10.29
2002 changes
$11.16-$21.24 16,550 1.8 12.93 16,550 12.93
Net change due
$21.57-$39.86 43,541 4.0 27.05 42,403 26.85
to hedging
$40.08-$50.66 40,916 6.7 45.94 35,829 45.76
transactions — — — (394)
$50.69-$55.91 36,337 7.8 50.74 306 51.82
Net amount
$57.30-$61.68 46,655 9.1 57.34 1 57.36
reclassed to
$63.30-$66.50 170 8.0 64.37 41 64.74
net earnings — — — 196
189,741 6.3 $41.42 100,702 $30.47
Net 2002
(a)Average contractual life remaining in years. changes (10) (86) (18) (198) (312)
Dec. 29, 2002 $(707) (2) (33) (100) (842)
Stock options exercisable at December 30, 2001 and
December31, 2000 were 99,176 options at an average exercise Total other comprehensive income for 2002 includes
price of $24.34 and 90,384 options at an average exercise price reclassification adjustment gains of $45 million realized from
of $19.46, respectively. the sale of equity securities and the associated taxexpense
of$19 million. In 2001, total other comprehensive income
included reclassification adjustment gains of $21 million real-
11Segments of Business and Geographic Areas
ized from the sale of equity securities and the associated tax
See page 57 for information on segments of business and
expense of $7 million. In 2000, total other comprehensive
geographic areas.
income included reclassification adjustment gains of $80 mil-
lion and the associated tax expenseof $28 million.
The tax effect on these unrealized gains/(losses) on equity
securities is a benefit of $1 million in 2002, an expense of $64
million in 2001 and an expense of $53 million in2000. The tax
effect on the gains/(losses) on derivatives and hedges is a benefit
of $56 million in 2002 andan expense of $53million in 2001.
See Note 15 for additional information relating to derivatives
and hedging.
The currency translation adjustments are not currently
adjusted for income taxes as they relate to permanent
investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries.
4813Retirementand Pension Plans funds sufficient to provide for all accrued benefits. International
subsidiaries have plans under which funds are deposited with
The Company sponsors various retirement and pension
trustees, annuities are purchased under group contracts or
plans,including defined benefit, defined contribution and
reserves are provided.
termination indemnity plans, which cover most employees
In certain countries other than the United States, the funding of
worldwide. The Company also provides postretirement
pension plans is not a common practice as funding provides no
benefits, primarily health care to all domestic retired
economic benefit. Consequently, the Company has several pension
employees and their dependents.
plans which are not funded.
Most international employees are covered by government
The Company does not fund retiree health care benefits in
sponsored programs and the cost to the Companyis not
advance and has the right to modify these plans in thefuture.
significant.
Net periodic benefit costs for the Company’s defined benefit
Retirement plan benefits are primarily based on the
retirement plans and other benefit plans for 2002, 2001 and
employee’s compensation during the last three to five years
2000 include the following components:
before retirement and the number of years of service. The Com-
pany’s objective in funding its domestic plans is to accumulate
Retirement Plans Other Benefit Plans
(Dollars in Millions) 2002 2001 2000 2002 2001 2000
Service cost $249 219 201 23 23 20
Interest cost 354 325 295 59 52 51
Expected return on plan assets (447) (413) (377) (4) (5) (5)
Amortization of prior service cost 15 18 21 (3) (3) (1)
Amortization of net transition asset (7) (6) (7) — — —
Recognized actuarial gains (41) (68) (81) — (7) (10)
Curtailments and settlements (1) (1) — — — —
Net periodic benefit cost $122 74 52 75 60 55
The net periodic (income) cost attributable to domestic retire-
ment plans was $61 million in 2002, $28 million in 2001 and
($14) million in 2000.
The following tables provide the weighted-average assump-
tions used to develop net periodic benefit cost and the actuar-
ial present value of projected benefit obligations:
Retirement Plans Other Benefit Plans
Domestic BenefitPlans 2002 2001 2000 2002 2001 2000
Weighted average discount rate 6.75% 7.50% 7.50% 6.75% 7.50% 7.50%
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
Rate of increase in compensation levels 4.50 4.50 5.00 4.50 4.50 5.00
International BenefitPlans
Weighted average discount rate 5.75% 5.75% 6.00% 6.75% 6.75% 6.75%
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 7.50 7.50 7.50 — — —
Rate of increase in compensation levels 3.50 3.50 3.50 4.25 4.25 4.25
Health care cost trends in the United States are projected at Plan assets consist primarily of listed common stocks, U.S.
annual rates, for all individuals, grading from 9.0% to 4.5% by and non-U.S. equities and fixed income investments. The fair
the year 2009 and beyond. The effect of a 1% change in these value of Johnson & Johnson common stock in the plan assets
assumed cost trends on the accumulated postretirement was $384 million at December 29, 2002.
benefit obligation atthe end of 2002 would be a $125 million
increase or a $106 million decrease and the effect on the
service and interest costcomponents of the net periodic
postretirement benefit cost for 2002 would be a $13 million
increase or a $10 million decrease.
49The following tables set forth the change in benefit obliga-
tions and change in plan assets at year-end 2002 and 2001
for the Company’s defined benefit retirement plans and other
benefit plans:
(Dollars in Millions) Retirement Plans Other Benefit Plans
Change in BenefitObligation 2002 2001 2002 2001
Benefit obligation—beginning of year $5,026 4,555 782 722
Service cost 249 219 23 23
Interest cost 354 325 59 52
Plan participant contributions 18 15 — —
Amendments 17 8 — —
Actuarial loss 478 210 190 22
Divestitures & acquisitions (4) 1 8 —
Curtailments & settlements (6) (1) — —
Total benefits paid (246) (223) (50) (34)
Effect of exchange rates 165 (83) 3 (3)
Benefit obligation—end of year $6,051 5,026 1,015 782
Change in Plan Assets
Plan assets at fair value—beginning of year $4,355 4,847 48 58
Actual return on plan assets (611) (276) (12) (8)
Company contributions 1,074 56 47 31
Plan participant contributions 18 15 — —
Divestitures (2) — (49) —
Benefits paid from plan assets (232) (212) — (33)
Effect of exchange rates 103 (75) — —
Plan assets at fair value—end of year $4,705 4,355 34 48
Amounts recognized in the Company’s balance sheetconsistof
the following:
Retirement Plans Other Benefit Plans
(Dollars in Millions) 2002 2001 2002 2001
Plan assets less than projected benefit obligation $(1,346) (671) (981) (734)
Unrecognized actuarial losses/(gains) 1,588 (14) 92 (123)
Unrecognized prior service cost 124 118 (18) (21)
Unrecognized net transition asset (4) (9) — —
Total recognized in the consolidated balance sheet $ 362 (576) (907) (878)
Book reserves $ (643) (770) (907) (878)
Prepaid benefits 959 165 — —
Intangible assets 13 14 — —
Accumulated comprehensive income 33 15 — —
Total recognized in consolidated balance sheet $ 362 (576) (907) (878)
A minimum pension liability adjustment is required when the The minimum pension liability adjustments in 2002 and 2001
actuarial present value of accumulated benefits (ABO) exceeds of $46 million and $29 million, respectively relate primarily to
the fair value of plan assets and accrued pension liabilities. plans outside the U.S.
Plans with accumulated benefitobligations in excess of plan
assets consistof the following:
Retirement Plans Other Benefit Plans
(Dollars in Millions) 2002 2001 2002 2001
Accumulated benefit obligation $ (953) (544) (941) (782)
Projected benefit obligation $(1,024) (645) — —
Plan assets at fair value $ 305 111 34 48
5014Marketable Securities
December 29, 2002 December 30, 2001
Net Unrealized Unrealized Estimated Net Unrealized Unrealized Estimated
(Dollars in Millions)
Cost Gains Losses Fair Value Cost Gains Losses Fair Value
Money market funds $ 701 — — 701 1,276 — — 1,276
Commercial paper 35 — — 35 54 — — 54
Time deposits 754 — — 754 1,162 — — 1,162
Government securities
and obligations 1,976 3 — 1,979 1,046 2 — 1,048
Asset backed securities — — — — 7 — — 7
Bank notes 18 — — 18 118 — — 118
Corporate debt securities 2,791 6 — 2,797 3,221 16 — 3,237
Total current
marketable securities $ 6,275 9 — 6,284 6,884 18 — 6,902
Government securities 14 — — 14 314 6 — 320
Asset backed securities — — — — 122 — — 122
Bank notes 27 — — 27 131 2 — 133
Corporate debt securities — — — — 311 7 — 318
Investments held in trust 80 — — 80 91 4 — 95
Total non-current
marketable securities $ 121 — — 121 969 19 — 988
Current marketable securities include $1.7 billion and $2.7 billion that are classified as cash equivalents on the balance sheet at
December 29, 2002 and December 30, 2001, respectively.
15Financial Instruments Concentration of CreditRisk
The Company invests its excess cash in both deposits
Effective January 1, 2001, the Company adopted SFAS 133
withmajor banks throughout the world and other high quality
requiring that all derivative instruments be recorded on
money market instruments. Refer to Note 14 for additional
thebalance sheet at fair value.
information. The Company has a policy of making investments
As of December 29, 2002 the balance of deferred net losses
onlywith commercial institutions that have at least an “A”
on derivatives included in accumulated other comprehensive
(orequivalent) credit rating. These investments generally
income was $100 million after-tax. For additional information,
mature within six months and the Company has not incurred
see Note 12. Of this amount, the Company expects that
any related losses.
$100million will be reclassified into earnings over the next
12months as a result of transactions that are expected to
occur over that period. The amount ultimately realized in 16Savings Plan
earnings will differ as foreign exchange rates change. Realized The Company has voluntary 401(k) savings plans designed to
gains and losses are ultimately determined byactual exchange enhance the existing retirement programs covering eligible
rates at maturity of the derivative. Transactions with third employees. The Company matches a percentage of each
parties will cause the amount in accumulated other compre- employee’s contributions consistent with the provisions of the
hensive income to affect net earnings. The maximum length plan for which he/she is eligible.
oftime over which the Company is hedging is 15 months. In the U.S. salaried plan, one-third of the Company match is
For the year ended December 29, 2002 the net impact of the paid in Company stock under an employee stock ownership
hedges’ ineffectiveness to the Company’s financial statements plan (ESOP). In 1990, to establish the ESOP, the Company
was insignificant. For the year ended December 29, 2002 the loaned $100 million to the ESOP Trust to purchase shares of
Company has recorded a net gain of $10 million (after tax) in the Company stock on the open market. In exchange, the Com-
the “other (income) expense, net” category of the consolidated pany received a note, the balance of which is recorded as a
statement of earnings, representing the impact of discontinu- reduction of shareholders’ equity.
ance of cash flow hedges because it is probable that the origi- Total contributions to the plans were $111 million in 2002,
nally forecasted transactions will not occur by the end of the $96 million in 2001 and $81 million in 2000.
originally specified time period.
Refer to Note 12 for disclosures of movements in
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.
5117Mergers & Acquisitions accounted for by the purchase method and, accordingly,
results of operations have been included in the accompanying
Certain businesses were acquired for $478 million in cash and
consolidated financial statements from their respective dates
liabilities assumed of $72 million assumed during 2002. These
of acquisition.
acquisitions were accounted for by the purchase method and,
The 2001 acquisitions included Inverness Medical Technol-
accordingly, results of operations have been included in the
ogy, the supplier of LifeScan’s electrochemical products for
accompanying consolidated financial statements from their
blood glucose monitoring following the spin-off of its non-
respective dates of acquisition.
diabetes businesses; Heartport, a company that develops and
The 2002 acquisitions included Tibotec-Virco N.V., a
manufactures products for less invasive open chest and mini-
privately-held biopharmaceutical company focused on devel-
mally invasive heart operations, including stopped heart and
oping anti-viral treatments; Micro Typing Systems, Inc., a
beating heart procedures; TERAMed Inc., an early-stage
manufacturer of reagents and supplier of distributed instru-
medical device company that is developing endovascular
ments known as the ID-Micro Typing SystemTMand Obtech
stent-graft systems for the minimally invasive treatment of
Medical AG, a privately-held company that markets an
abdominal aortic aneurysms and peripheral occlusive disease;
adjustable gastric band for the treatment of morbid obesity.
BabyCenter, L.L.C., an Internet content and commerce com-
The excess of purchase price over the estimated fair value
pany devoted to supporting a community of expectant and
of tangible assets of the acquired entities amounted to
new mothers; and the VIACTIV®product line, a chewable cal-
$325million and hasbeen allocated to identifiable intangibles
cium supplement, from the Mead Johnson Nutritionals Divi-
and goodwill. In addition, approximately $189 million has been
sion of Bristol-Myers Squibb.
identified as the value of in-process research and development
Inverness Medical Technology was acquired to enhance
(IPR&D) associated with the Tibotec-Virco N.V. and Obtech
control of the primary supplier of LifeScan blood glucose mon-
Medical AG acquisitions.
itoring products and will allow for the achievement of opera-
The IPR&D charge related to Tibotec-Virco N.V. was $150
tional synergies. The acquisition also provides key technology
million and is associated with two early stage HIV compounds.
for the development of future products.
The value of the IPR&D was calculated with the assistance of a
Approximately $105 million has been identified as the value
third party appraiser using cash flow projections discounted
of IPR&D associated with the Inverness Medical Technology
for the risk inherent in such projects using probability of suc-
and TERAMed Inc. acquisitions. The IPR&D charge is primar-
cess factors ranging from 30–33%. The discount rate was 9%.
ily related to Inverness projects for minimally invasive testing,
The IPR&D charge related to Obtech Medical AG was $39
continuous monitoring and insulin delivery. The value of the
million and is associated with the development of the current
IPR&D was calculated with the assistance of a third party
Swedish Adjustable Gastric Band (SAGB) for use in the United
appraiser using cash flow projections discounted for the risk
States as well as development of a next generation technology
inherent in such projects using probability of success factors
platform. The value of the IPR&D was calculated with the
ranging from 25–40%. The discount rate used was 12%.
assistance of a third party appraiser using cash flow projec-
Certain businesses were acquired for $241 million during
tions discounted for the risk inherent in such projects using a
2000. These acquisitions were accounted for by the purchase
70% probability of success factor and a 20% discount rate.
method and, accordingly, results of operations have been
Pro forma information is not provided since the impact of
included in the accompanying consolidated financial state-
the acquisitions does not have a material effect on the Com-
ments from their respective dates of acquisitions.
pany’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position.
The 2000 acquisitions included Crescendo, a company
On June 22, 2001, Johnson & Johnson and ALZA Cor-
formed by ALZA for the purpose of selecting, developing and
poration (ALZA) completed the merger between the two
commercializing human pharmaceutical products; Innovasive
companies. This transaction was accounted for as a pooling-
Devices, a company that manufactures and sells devices for
of-interests. ALZA had approximately 239 million shares out-
sports medicine surgery for soft tissue injuries; Atrionix, Inc.,
standing (286 million on a fully diluted basis) thatwere
adevelopment stage company whose primary product is a
exchanged for approximately 234 million shares ofJohnson
pulmonary ablation catheter for the treatment of atrial fibril-
&Johnson common stock. On a diluted basis whenadjusted
lation; Medtrex, a company that develops and manufactures
for stock options and convertible debt, the number of Johnson
electrosurgical generators and disposable products, and the
& Johnson shares issued total approximately 280 million.
ST. JOSEPH®aspirin business. The IPR&D writeoff associated
Holders of ALZA common stock received 0.98 of a share of
with Atrionix, Inc. and ALZA’s Crescendo acquisition was $66
Johnson & Johnson common stock, valued at$52.39 per share.
million. The IPR&D charge is primarily related to an Atrionix
ALZA is a research-based pharmaceutical company with
project for the design of a catheter system to be used in a
leading drug delivery technologies. The company applies its
procedure which blocks electrical impulses originating in pul-
delivery technologies to develop pharmaceutical products
monary veins, which can cause atrial fibrillation. The value of
withenhanced therapeutic value for Johnson & Johnson
IPR&D was calculated with the assistance of a third party
affiliate portfolios and for many of the world’s leading
appraiser using a cash flow projection discounted for the risk
pharmaceutical companies.
inherent in such a project. The discount rate used was 26%.
Certain businesses were acquired for $1.9 billion during
Divestitures in 2002, 2001 and 2000 did not have a material
2001 ($0.6 billion in cash and liabilities assumed and 24.5
effecton the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or
million shares of the Company’s common stock issued from
financial position.
Treasury valued at $1.3 billion). These acquisitions were
5218Legal Proceedings With respect to all the various PROPULSID®actions against
them, Janssen and the Company dispute the claims in those
The Company is involved in numerous product liability cases in
lawsuits and are vigorously defending against them except
the United States, many of which concern adverse reactions to
where, in their judgment, settlement is appropriate. Janssen
drugs and medical devices. The damages claimed are substan-
and the Company believe they have adequate self-insurance
tial, and while the Company is confident of the adequacy of the
reserves and commercially available excess insurance with
warnings and instructions for use which accompany such prod-
respect to these cases. In communications to the Company, the
ucts, it is not feasible to predict the ultimate outcome of litiga-
excess insurance carriers have raised certain defenses to their
tion. However, the Company believes that if any liability results
liability under the policies. However, in the opinion of the Com-
from such cases, it will be substantially covered by reserves
pany, those defenses are pro forma and lack substance and the
established under its self-insurance program and by commer-
carriers will honor their obligations under the policies.
cially available excess liability insurance.
The Company’s Ortho Biotech subsidiary was party to an
One group of cases against the Company concerns the
arbitration proceeding filed against it in 1995 by Amgen, Ortho
Janssen Pharmaceutica product PROPULSID®, which was with-
Biotech’s licensor of U.S. non-dialysis rights to PROCRIT®, in
drawn from general sale and restricted to limited use in 2000.
which Amgen sought to terminate Ortho Biotech’s U.S. license
In the wake of publicity about those events, numerous lawsuits
rights and collect substantial damages based on alleged delib-
have been filed against Janssen, which is a wholly owned
erate PROCRIT®sales by Ortho Biotech during the early 1990s
subsidiary of the Company, and the Company regarding
into Amgen’s reserved dialysis market. On October 18, 2002,
PROPULSID®in state and federal courts across the country.
thearbitrator issued his decision rejecting Amgen’s request
There are approximately 753 such cases currently pending,
toterminate the license and finding no material breach of the
including theclaims of approximately 5,556 plaintiffs, 1,961 of
license. However, the arbitrator found that conduct by Ortho
whom recently filed in Mississippi to avoid application of tort
Biotech in the early 1990s, which was subsequently halted
reform legislation effective January 1, 2003. More cases were
byOrtho Biotech, amounted to a non-material breach of the
likely filed in Mississippi but have not yet been served. In the
license and awarded Amgen $150 million in damages which
active cases, 429 individuals are alleged to have died from the
theCompany expensed in the third quarter of 2002. Amgen
use of PROPULSID®. These actions seek substantial compen-
hadsought $1.2 billion in damages. On January 24, 2003, the
satory and punitive damages and accuse Janssen and the
arbitrator ruled that Amgen was the “prevailing party” in this
Company of inadequately testing for and warning about the
arbitration, entitling it to an award of reasonable attorneys’ fees
drug’s side effects, of promoting it for off-label use and of over-
and costs. Amgen has not yet submitted its application forfees
promotion. In addition, Janssen and the Company have entered
and costs. The Company expensed $85 million in the fourth
into agreements with various plaintiffs’ counsel halting the run-
quarter of 2002 in connection with this outstanding claim.
ning of the statutes of limitations with respect to the potential
In patent infringement actions tried in Delaware Federal
claims of a significant number of individuals while those attor-
Court in late 2000, Cordis Corporation, a subsidiary of Johnson
neys evaluate whether or not to sue Janssen and the Company
& Johnson, obtained verdicts of infringement and patent valid-
on their behalf.
ity, and damage awards, against Boston Scientific Corporation
In September 2001, the first 10 plaintiffs in the Rankin case,
and Medtronic AVE, Inc., based on a number of Cordis coro-
which comprises the claims of 155 PROPULSID®plaintiffs, went
nary stent patents. On December 15, 2000, the jury in the dam-
to trial in state court in Claiborne County, Mississippi. The jury
age action against Boston Scientific returned a verdict of $324
returned compensatory damage verdicts for each plaintiff in
million and on December 21, 2000 the jury in the Medtronic
the amount of $10 million, for a total of $100 million. The trial
AVE action returned a verdict of $271 million. These sums rep-
judge thereafter dismissed the claims of punitive damages. On
resent lost profit and reasonable royalty damages to compen-
March 4, 2002, the trial judge reduced these verdicts to a total
sate Cordis for infringement but do not include pre or post
of $48 million, and denied the motions of Janssen and the Com-
judgment interest. In February 2001 a hearing was held on the
pany for a new trial. Janssen and the Company believe these
claims of Boston Scientific and Medtronic AVE that the patents
verdicts, even as reduced, are insupportable and have
at issue were unenforceable owing to alleged inequitable con-
appealed. In the view of Janssen and the Company, the proof at
duct before the patent office. In March and May 2002, the
trial demonstrated that none of these plaintiffs was injured by
district judge issued post trial rulings which confirmed the
PROPULSID®and that no basis for liability existed.
validity and enforceability of the main Cordis stent patent
In April 2002, a state court judge in New Jersey denied
claims but found certain other Cordis patents unenforceable.
plaintiffs’ motion to certify a national class of PROPULSID®
Further, the district judge granted Boston Scientific a new
users for purposes of medical monitoring and refund of the
trialon liability and damages and vacated the verdict against
costs of purchasing PROPULSID®. An effort to appeal that ruling
Medtronic AVE on legal grounds. Appeals to the Federal Circuit
has been denied. In June 2002 the federal judge presiding over
Court of Appeals are underway.
the PROPULSID®Multi-District Litigation in New Orleans,
The products of various Johnson & Johnson operating com-
Louisiana similarly denied plaintiffs’ motion there to certify a
panies are the subject of various patent lawsuits which could
national class of PROPULSID®users. Plaintiffs in the Multi-
potentially affect the ability of those operating companies to sell
District Litigation have said they are preserving their right to
those products, require the payment of past damages and future
appeal that ruling and other complaints filed against Janssen
royalties or, with respect to patent challenges by generic phar-
and the Company include class action allegations which could
maceutical firms, result in the introduction of generic versions of
be the basis for future attempts to have classes certified.
53the products in question and the ensuing loss of market share. 19Earnings Per Share
The following patent lawsuits concern important products of
The following is a reconciliation of basic net earnings per share
Johnson & Johnson operating companies.Medtronic/
to diluted net earnings per share for the years ended Decem-
AVE v. Cordis Corporation: This action, filed in April 2002
ber 29, 2002, December 30, 2001 and December 31, 2000:
infederal court in Texas, asserts certain patents owned by
(Shares in Millions) 2002 2001 2000
Medtronic/AVE against the Cordis BXVELOCITYTMstent, which
Basic earnings per share $ 2.20 1.87 1.65
isalso the stent structure used in the CYPHERTMdrug eluting
Average shares
product. No trial date has been set for this action. Ortho Phar-
outstanding—basic 2,998.3 3,033.8 2,993.5
maceutical v. Barr Laboratories, Inc.: Pending in federal court
Potential shares
in New Jersey, this action, filed in June 2000, involves Barr’s
exercisable under
effort to invalidate Ortho’s patents covering its ORTHO TRI-
stock option plans 188.3 166.6 119.0
CYCLEN®oral contraceptive product. Trial has not yet been
Less: shares repurchased
scheduled in this case. Ortho-McNeil and Daiichi, Inc. v. Mylan
under treasury stock method (146.9) (121.8) (71.7)
Laboratories andOrtho-McNeil and Daiichi, Inc. v. Teva Phar-
Convertible debt shares 14.4 20.7 58.4
maceutical: These matters, the first of which was filed in Febru-
ary 2002 in federal court in West Virginia and the second in Adjusted average shares
June 2002 in federal court in New Jersey, concern the efforts of outstanding—diluted 3,054.1 3,099.3 3,099.2
Mylan and Teva to invalidate and establish non-infringement of Diluted earnings per share $ 2.16 1.84 1.61
the patent covering LEVAQUIN®levofloxacin tablets. The patent
Diluted earnings per share calculation includes the dilution
is owned by Daiichi and exclusively licensed to Ortho-McNeil. In
effect of convertible debt: a decrease in interest expense
the Mylan case trial hasbeen set for late 2003. No trial date has
of$12 million, $25 million and $47 million after tax for years
been set in the Teva matter. Janssen and ALZA v. Mylan Labo-
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.
ratories: This action, filed in federal district court in Vermont in
Diluted earnings per share excludes 1 million shares of
February 2002, concerns Mylan’s effort to invalidate and assert
options for each of the years 2002 and 2001, and 62million
non-infringement ofALZA’s patent covering the DURAGESIC®
shares ofoptions for the year2000, as the exercise price
product. Trial is likely in the spring of 2003. With respect to all
ofthese options was greater than their average market
of the above matters, theJohnson & Johnson operating com-
value,resulting in an anti-dilutive effect on diluted earnings
pany involved is vigorously defending the validity and asserting
per share.
the infringement of itsown or its licensors’ patents or, where its
product is accused of infringing patents held by others, defend-
ing against those claims. 20Capital and Treasury Stock
The Company is also involved in a number of other patent, Changes in treasury stock were:
trademark and other lawsuits incidental to its business.
Treasury Stock
The ultimate legal and financial liability of the Company in ( ND uo mlla bers r oin f SM hi all rio en s s i nE x Tc he op ut sands) Shares Amount
respect to all claims, lawsuits and proceedings referred to
Balance at January 2, 2000 140,154 $ 453
above cannot be estimated with any certainty. However, in the
Employee compensation and stock
opinion of management, based on its examination of these
option plans (28,886) (1,075)
matters, its experience to date and discussions with counsel,
Conversion of Subordinated Debentures (25,676) —
the ultimate outcome of these legal proceedings, net of liabili-
Repurchase of common stock 21,402 973
ties already accrued in the Company’s consolidated balance
Business combinations (1,776) (9)
sheet, is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s consolidated financial position, although the reso- Balance at December 31, 2000 105,218 342
lution in any reporting period of one or more of these matters Employee compensation and stock
could have a significant impact on the Company’s results of option plans (30,581) (1,444)
operations for that period. Conversion of Subordinated Debentures (30,061) (183)
Repurchase of common stock 51,244 2,742
Business combinations (23,193) (64)
Balance at December 30, 2001 72,627 1,393
Employee compensation and stock
option plans (22,720) (1,295)
Conversion of Subordinated Debentures (5,742) (353)
Repurchase of common stock 107,382 6,382
Balance at December 29, 2002 151,547 $6,127
Shares of common stock authorized and issued were
3,119,842,000 shares at the end of 2002, 2001 and 2000.
5421Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
Selected unaudited quarterly financial data for the years 2002 and 2001 are summarized below:
2002 2001
First Second Third Fourth First Second Third Fourth
(Dollars in Millions
Except Per Share Amounts) Quarter Quarter(1) Quarter(2) Quarter(3) Quarter Quarter(4) Quarter(5) Quarter(6)
Segment sales to customers
Consumer $1,604 1,649 1,661 1,650 1,631 1,530 1,609 1,551
Pharmaceutical 4,181 4,258 4,277 4,435 3,489 3,864 3,677 3,820
Med Devices & Diagnostics 2,958 3,166 3,141 3,318 2,735 2,785 2,772 2,854
Total sales $8,743 9,073 9,079 9,403 7,855 8,179 8,058 8,225
Gross profit 6,286 6,491 6,468 6,606 5,544 5,807 5,662 5,723
Earnings before provision
for taxes on income 2,621 2,428 2,393 1,849 2,217 2,129 2,108 1,444
Net earnings 1,834 1,654 1,725 1,384 1,552 1,482 1,529 1,105
Basic net earnings per share $ .60 .55 .58 .47 .51 .49 .50 .36
Diluted net earnings per share $ .59 .54 .57 .46 .50 .48 .49 .36
(1)The second quarter of 2002 includes an after tax charge of $189 million relating to In-Process Research and Development (IPR&D) costs.
(2)The third quarter of 2002 includes an after tax charge of $92 million relating to the Amgen arbitration settlement.
(3)The fourth quarter of 2002 includes an after tax charge of $54 million relating to Amgen legal fees.
(4)The second quarter of 2001 includes an after tax charge of $102 million relating to ALZA merger costs.
(5)The third quarter of 2001 includes an after tax charge of $24 million relating to ALZA merger costs.
(6)The fourth quarter of 2001 includes an after tax charge of $105 million relating to IPR&D costs. The fourth quarter also includes an after tax charge of
$29 million relating to a LifeScan class action settlement.
22SubsequentEvent Scios is a biopharmaceutical company developing novel
treatments for cardiovascular and inflammatory disease.
On February 10, 2003, Johnson & Johnson announced that it
Thecompany’s disease-based technology platform integrates
signed a definitive agreement with Scios Inc., a biopharmaceu-
expertise in protein biology with computational and medicinal
tical company with a marketed product for cardiovascular dis-
chemistry to identify novel targets and rationally design small
ease and research projects focused on auto-immune diseases.
molecule compounds for large markets with unmet medical
The Company will acquire Scios in a cash for stock exchange.
needs. Scios’ product NATRECOR®is a recombinant form of
Under the terms of the agreement, Scios shareholders will
anaturally occurring protein secreted by the heart as part of
receive $45.00 for each outstanding Scios share. The value of
thebody’s response to congestive heart failure (CHF). The drug
the transaction as of the anticipated closing date is expected
has several significant advantages over existing therapies for
tobe approximately $2.4 billion, net of cash anticipated to be
CHF, the single most common cause of hospitalization in the
acquired, based on Scios’ approximately 59.8 million fully
United States for patients over 65.
diluted shares outstanding.
The principal focus of Scios’ research and development
The boards of directors of Johnson & Johnson and Scios
program is small molecule inhibitors, and includes several
havegiven their approval to the transaction, which is subject
potential new treatments for pain and inflammatory diseases,
toclearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Anti-Trust Improve-
including an advanced p-38 kinase inhibitor program.
ments Act. This transaction is also subject to the approval of the
The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter
shareholders of Scios and other customary closing conditions.
of2003.
55Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of
Johnson & Johnson:
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets
and the related consolidated statements of earnings, consoli-
dated statements of equity and consolidated statements of
cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Johnson & Johnson and subsidiaries at December
29, 2002 and December 30, 2001, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years
inthe period ended December 29, 2002, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America. These financial statements are the responsibility
of the Company’s management; our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance
with auditing standards generally accepted in the United
States of America, which require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant esti-
mates made by management, and evaluating the overall finan-
cial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide
a reasonable basis for our opinion.
As discussed in Notes 1 and 7 to the financial statements,
the Company has adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,”
effective December 31, 2001.
New York, New York
January 20, 2003, except for Note 22 for which the date
isFebruary 10, 2003
56Segments of Business(1)
Johnson & Johnson and Subsidiaries
Sales to Customers(2)
(Dollars in Millions) 2002 2001 2000
Consumer—Domestic $ 3,605 3,449 3,403
International 2,959 2,871 2,868
Total 6,564 6,320 6,271
Pharmaceutical—Domestic 11,919 10,240 8,441
International 5,232 4,611 4,220
Total 17,151 14,851 12,661
Medical Devices & Diagnostics—Domestic 6,931 6,136 5,472
International 5,652 5,010 4,768
Total 12,583 11,146 10,240
Worldwide total $36,298 32,317 29,172
Operating Profit Identifiable Assets
(Dollars in Millions) 2002(5) 2001(6) 2000(7) 2002 2001 2000
Consumer $ 1,229 1,004 867 5,056 4,209 4,761
Pharmaceutical 5,787 4,928 4,394 11,112 10,591 9,209
Medical Devices & Diagnostics 2,489 2,001 1,696 15,052 13,645 12,745
Segments total 9,505 7,933 6,957 31,220 28,445 26,715
Expenses not allocated to segments(3) (214) (35) (89)
General corporate(4) 9,336 10,043 7,530
Worldwide total $ 9,291 7,898 6,868 40,556 38,488 34,245
Additions to Property, Depreciation and
Plant& Equipment Amortization
(Dollars in Millions) 2002 2001 2000 2002 2001 2000
Consumer $ 222 230 336 244 263 275
Pharmaceutical 1,012 749 627 557 492 474
Medical Devices & Diagnostics 713 621 665 776 801 801
Segments total 1,947 1,600 1,628 1,577 1,556 1,550
General corporate 152 131 61 85 49 42
Worldwide total $ 2,099 1,731 1,689 1,662 1,605 1,592
Geographic Areas
Sales to Customers(2) Long-Lived Assets
(Dollars in Millions) 2002 2001 2000 2002 2001 2000
United States $22,455 19,825 17,316 12,854 11,922 10,043
Europe 7,636 6,687 6,210 4,712 3,632 3,551
Western Hemisphere excluding U.S. 2,018 2,070 2,020 622 640 653
Asia-Pacific, Africa 4,189 3,735 3,626 603 433 427
Segments total 36,298 32,317 29,172 18,791 16,627 14,674
General corporate 383 319 255
Other non long-lived assets 21,382 21,542 19,316
Worldwide total $36,298 32,317 29,172 40,556 38,488 34,245
(1)See Management’s Discussion and Analysis, pages 28 to 29, for a description of the segments in which the Company does business.
(2)Export sales and intersegment sales are not significant. Sales to three distributors accounted for 10.3%, 9.8% and 9.2% of total revenues in 2002. These
saleswere concentrated in the pharmaceutical segment. Sales of PROCRIT®/EPREX®accounted for 11.8% and 10.6%, of total Company revenues, for 2002 and
2001, respectively.
(3)Amounts not allocated to segments include interest income/expense, minority interest and general corporate income and expense.
(4)General corporate includes cash and marketable securities.
(5)Includes $150 million of In-Process Research & Development (IPR&D), $150 million and $85 million of Amgen costs in the Pharmaceutical segment and
$39million of IPR&D in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment.
(6)Includes $147 million of ALZA merger costs in the Pharmaceutical segment and $105 million of IPR&D and $45 million ofclass action settlement in the Medical
Devices and Diagnostics segment.
(7)Includes restructuring gains of $24 million in the Consumer segment and $8 million and $49 million of IPR&D charges net of restructuring gains in the
Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics segments, respectively.
57Summary of Operations and Statistical Data1992-2002(3)
Johnson & Johnson and Subsidiaries
(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Figures) 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 1996 1995 1994 1993 1992
Sales to customers–Domestic $22,455 19,825 17,316 15,532 12,901 11,814 10,851 9,065 7,731 7,121 6,899
Sales to customers–International 13,843 12,492 11,856 11,825 10,910 10,708 10,536 9,472 7,723 6,756 6,701
Total sales 36,298 32,317 29,172 27,357 23,811 22,522 21,387 18,537 15,454 13,877 13,600
Cost of products sold 10,447 9,581 8,957 8,539 7,700 7,350 7,185 6,352 5,393 4,908 4,783
Selling, marketing and administrative expenses 12,216 11,260 10,495 10,065 8,525 8,185 7,848 6,950 5,901 5,364 5,356
Research expense 3,957 3,591 3,105 2,768 2,506 2,373 2,109 1,788 1,416 1,296 1,282
Purchased in-process research and development 189 105 66 — 298 108 — — 37 — —
Interest income (256) (456) (429) (266) (302) (263) (196) (151) (85) (104) (122)
Interest expense, net of portion capitalized 160 153 204 255 186 179 176 184 182 165 162
Other (income) expense, net 294 185 (94) 119 565 248 122 70 (5) (71) 20
27,007 24,419 22,304 21,480 19,478 18,180 17,244 15,193 12,839 11,558 11,481
Earnings before provision for taxes on income 9,291 7,898 6,868 5,877 4,333 4,342 4,143 3,344 2,615 2,319 2,119
Provision for taxes on income 2,694 2,230 1,915 1,604 1,232 1,237 1,185 926 654 533 547
Earnings before cumulative effect of accounting changes 6,597 5,668 4,953 4,273 3,101 3,105 2,958 2,418 1,961 1,786 1,572
Cumulative effect of accounting changes (net of tax) — — — — — — — — — — (595)
Netearnings $ 6,597 5,668 4,953 4,273 3,101 3,105 2,958 2,418 1,961 1,786 977
Percent of sales to customers 18.2 17.5 17.0 15.6 13.0(2) 13.8 13.8 13.0 12.7 12.9 7.2
Diluted net earnings per share of common stock* $ 2.16(2) 1.84(2) 1.61(2) 1.39(2) 1.02(2) 1.02(2) .98 .84 .69 .63 .34(1)
Percent return on average shareholders’ equity 28.1 25.4 26.5 27.0 22.2(2) 24.6 27.2 27.6 28.4 30.1 16.4(1)
Percentincrease (decrease) over previous year:
Sales to customers 12.3 10.8 6.6 14.9 5.7 5.3 15.4 19.9 11.4 2.0 11.4
Diluted net earnings per share 17.4(2) 14.3(2) 15.8(2) 36.3(2) —(2) 4.1(2) 16.7 21.7 9.5 85.3(1) (22.7)(1)
Supplementary expense data:
Cost of materials and services(4) $16,540 15,333 14,113 13,922 11,779 11,702 11,341 9,984 8,104 7,168 7,736
Total employment costs 8,450 7,749 7,085 6,537 5,908 5,586 5,447 4,849 4,401 4,181 4,166
Depreciation and amortization 1,662 1,605 1,592 1,510 1,335 1,117 1,047 886 754 649 576
Maintenance and repairs(5) 360 372 327 322 286 270 285 257 222 205 213
Total tax expense(6) 3,497 2,995 2,619 2,271 1,881 1,824 1,753 1,458 1,132 957 975
Supplementary balance sheetdata:
Property, plant and equipment, net $ 8,710 7,719 7,409 7,155 6,767 6,204 6,025 5,544 5,230 4,717 4,443
Additions to property, plant and equipment 2,099 1,731 1,689 1,822 1,610 1,454 1,427 1,307 979 1,001 1,162
Total assets 40,556 38,488 34,245 31,064 28,966 23,615 22,248 19,355 17,027 13,372 13,087
Long-term debt 2,022 2,217 3,163 3,429 2,652 2,084 2,347 2,702 2,776 1,761 1,832
Operating cash flow 8,176 8,864 6,903 5,920 5,106 4,210 4,001 3,436 2,984 2,202 2,136
Common stock information*
Dividends paid per share $ .795 .70 .62 .55 .49 .425 .368 .32 .283 .253 .223
Shareholders’ equity per share $ 7.65 7.95 6.77 5.70 4.93 4.51 4.07 3.46 2.76 2.16 2.03
Market price per share (year-end close) $ 53.11 59.86 52.53 46.63 41.94 32.44 25.25 21.38 13.69 11.19 12.63
Average shares outstanding (millions)–basic 2,998.3 3,033.8 2,993.5 2,978.2 2,973.6 2,951.9 2,938.0 2,820.1 2,796.9 2,816.6 2,845.8
–diluted 3,054.1 3,099.3 3,099.2 3,100.4 3,082.7 3,073.0 3,046.2 2,890.0 2,843.2 2,840.8 2,876.4
Employees (thousands) 108.3 101.8 100.9 99.8 96.1 92.6 91.5 84.2 83.4 83.2 86.9
*Adjusted to reflect the 2001 two-for-one stock split.
(1)Excluding the cumulative effect of accounting changes of $595 million. –1992 earnings percent of sales to customers before accounting changes is 11.6%. –1992 earnings per
share before accounting change is $.55. –1992 earnings percent return on average shareholders’ equity before accounting changes is 25.1%. –1993 diluted net earnings per
share percent increase over prior year before accounting changes is 14.5%; 1992 diluted net earnings per share increase over prior year is 25.0%.
(2)Excluding In-Process Research and Development (IPR&D), merger and restructuring costs: –2002 diluted net earnings per share is $2.23 and the increase over prior year is
16.8%. –2001 diluted net earnings per share is $1.91 and the increase over prior year is 17.2%. –2000 diluted net earnings per share is $1.63 and the increase over prior year
is 14.8%. –1999 diluted net earnings per share is $1.42 and the increase over prior year is 14.5%. –1998 diluted net earnings per share is $1.24 and the increase over prior
year is 11.7%. –1998 cost of products sold includes $60 million of inventory write-offs for restructuring, the percent return on average shareholders’ equity is 26.5% and the
earnings percent of sales to customers is 16.0%. –1997 diluted net earnings per share is $1.11 and the increase over prior year is 13.3%.
(3)All periods have been adjusted to include the effects of the ALZA merger.
(4)Net of interest and other income.
(5)Also included in cost of materials and services category.
(6)Includes taxes on income, payroll, property and other business taxes.
58Principal Global Affiliates
Advanced Sterilization Products, a division of Ethicon, Inc., develops, manufactures and markets a
range of sterilization systems based on a patented low temperature hydrogen peroxide gas plasma
process, as well as sterilizing/disinfecting solutions. The STERRAD®Sterilization System is safe,
fast, environmentally friendly and effective, and can be used on a broad range of medical products
in health care facilities. CIDEX®OPA Solution is a fast and effective method to disinfect a wide
www.sterrad.com range of instruments and endoscopes.
ALZACorporation has pioneered and continues to lead in the development of drug delivery-based
pharmaceuticals for Johnson & Johnson companies that enhance health care for millions of
patients worldwide. ALZAalso partners with other leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology
companies to develop products that address unmet patient needs by precisely controlling the
www.alza.com targeting, timing and dosing of therapeutic compounds.
BabyCenter, L.L.C. is the leading online pregnancy and parenting resource, reaching millions of
new moms each month. Through its Web sites, BabyCenter.com and ParentCenter.com, the compa-
ny provides award-winning health, child development and parenting information customized for a
woman’s stage of pregnancy or her child’s age. BabyCenter also offers an online baby store and a
www.babycenter.com thriving online community.
Centocor, Inc. is a leading, fully integrated biopharmaceutical and biotechnology company special-
izing in the development and commercialization of therapeutic products to meet critical human
health care needs. A world leader in monoclonal antibody technology and manufacturing, Centocor
manufactures products including REMICADE®(infliximab) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthri-
tis and Crohn’s disease; REOPRO®(abciximab) for use in percutaneous coronary intervention, and
www.centocor.com RETAVASE®(reteplase), a clot buster that is administered during heart attack.
Cordis Corporation is a global leader in developing and marketing devices for circulatory disease
management, including stents, balloons and catheters used in treating cardiovascular disease and
related conditions. Products are marketed by clinical application through four main divisions:
Cordis Cardiology for coronary applications; Cordis Endovascular for all peripheral applications;
Cordis Neurovascular for neurological applications; and Biosense Webster for electrophysiology
www.cordis.com and medical sensor technology in endocardial procedures.
DePuy, Inc. develops and markets products under the DEPUY®, ACE®, ACROMED®, CODMAN®and
MITEK®brands. DePuy and DePuy Ace provide products for reconstructing damaged or diseased
joints, and for repairing and reconstructing traumatic skeletal injuries. AcroMed facilitates fusion
of elements of the spine and correction of spinal deformities, and repairing bone fractures.
Codman provides for the surgical treatment of central nervous system disorders through a wide
range of products such as hydrocephalic shunt valve systems, implantable drug pumps and micro-
surgical instrumentation. The Mitek Products sports medicine line offers innovative devices for the
www.depuy.com treatment of soft tissue injuries.
eJNJ, L.L.C. is a catalyst for accelerating the adoption of e-business through the identification,
incubation and development of new Web-enabled health care business models that increase long-
term growth potential.
Ethicon, Inc. is a global leader in developing and marketing products for surgery in the areas of
wound care and wound management, women’s health, cardiovascular surgery and advanced
wound care treatment. Products are marketed through four divisions: ETHICON®Products offers
devices that facilitate precise wound closure and tissue repair; CARDIOVATIONS®pioneers mini-
mally-invasive surgical devices that help restore and improve cardiac health; GYNECARE®offers
minimally-invasive solutions for gynecological health problems; and Johnson & Johnson Wound
Management offers a complete line of innovative products for hemostasis, tissue regeneration and
www.ethiconinc.com advanced wound care.
59Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. develops and markets a broad portfolio of advanced surgical instru-
ments for less invasive and traditional surgery, as well as a line of safety catheters for vascular
access. Its mission is to help physicians around the world transform patient care through innova-
tion. The company’s focus is on designing innovative, procedure-enabling devices for interventional
diagnosis and treatment of various diseases and conditions in the areas of general, thoracic and
www.ethiconendo.com bariatric surgery, breast disease, gynecology and urology.
Greiter AG develops and produces a line of elegant sunscreen and after-sun products that
combine sun protection with special moisturizers. Its products are sold throughout Europe and
other markets.
Independence Technology, L.L.C. markets products and services that increase the independence of
people with disabilities. Products include the INDEPENDENCE™iGLIDE™Manual Assist Wheelchair,
the INDEPENDENCE™maxPRO™Seat Cushion and the INDEPENDENCE™iBOT™Mobility System,
which is expected to be approved in the U.S. in 2003.
www.independencenow.com
The Janssen-Cilag companies produce and market a broad range of pharmaceutical products,
mainly discovered and/or developed by Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical Research &
Development, L.L.C. Leading products include EPREX®/ERYPO®(hematology), RISPERDAL®(psychia-
try), SPORANOX®(dermatology/fungal infections), DURAGESIC®/DUROGESIC®(pain management),
www.janssen-cilag.com TOPAMAX®(epilepsy), PARIET®/ACIPHEX®(gastroenterology), and REMINYL®(Alzheimer’s disease).
Janssen Pharmaceutica Products, L.P. produces and markets prescription medications in four thera-
peutic areas: central nervous system disorders, gastrointestinal health, pain management and the
treatment of fungal infections. Leading products include RISPERDAL®(risperidone), an antipsychot-
ic; ACIPHEX®(rabeprazole sodium), a proton pump inhibitor; DURAGESIC®(fentanyl transdermal
system), a skin patch for the treatment of moderate to severe pain; SPORANOX®(itraconazole), an
www.janssen.com antifungal; and REMINYL®(galantamine hydrobromide), for Alzheimer’s disease.
The primary businesses of Johnson & Johnson Consumer Products Company are baby care, wound
care and skin care. The company’s wide range of products includes the familiar line of baby and
child care products, a complete line of family first aid and home health care products,skin care
products such as cleansers, astringents, moisturizers and acne treatments, and body powders.
www.johnsonsbaby.com
The Johnson & Johnson Development Corporation makes equity investments in early-stage
venture and young publicly-traded health care companies, where promising new technologies
are under development. Portfolio companies include those in the fields of pharmaceuticals,
biotechnology, medical and surgical devices, health care information technology, diagnostics
and consumer products.
Johnson & Johnson Gateway, L.L.C. develops and manages the Web-based resource of information
created for health care professionals by Johnson & Johnson medical devices and diagnostics
companies. Accessed in a global Internet destination are product information, clinical content,
professional education, patient materials, and in many countries, e-commerce transaction and
www.jnjgateway.com inquiry capabilities.
Johnson & Johnson Health Care Systems, Inc. provides national, managed care, government and
large hospital customers with a single point of contact for products from Johnson & Johnson
domestic companies. In addition to customer account management, the company offers business
support services, including contract management, supply chain, electronic business resources, and
www.jjhcs.com health and fitness services for employers.
60Johnson & Johnson • Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Co. is a 50/50 joint venture formed to
develop and market a broad range of nonprescription products derived primarily from Merck
& Co., Inc. prescription medicines, as well as products licensed and acquired from outside
sources. Current products include PEPCID®AC Acid Controller, for both the prevention and relief
of heartburn and acid indigestion; PEPCID®Complete, a combination acid controller and antacid,
www.jnj-merck.com and MYLANTA®Antacid, a leading line of antacid/antigas products in liquid and solid forms.
Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical Research & Development, L.L.C. conducts research and
development and achieves regulatory approval for products in psychiatry, gastroenterology,
oncology, anti-infective, central nervous system, diabetes, hematology, immunology/inflammation,
women’s health and wound healing.
www.jnjpharmarnd.com
Johnson & Johnson Sales and Logistics Company, a division of Johnson & Johnson Consumer
Companies, Inc., provides sales, marketing and logistical services to U.S. retail customers on behalf
of the domestic consumer operating companies. It represents a single point of contact with our
customers for customer-focused selling teams, customer service, distribution, retail merchandis-
ing and professional detailing. Additionally, the SLC provides leadership for an emerging global
customer base in the areas of transportation, enterprise-wide systems, business processes and
global customer development.
LifeScan, Inc. is dedicated to improving the quality of life for people with diabetes by developing,
manufacturing and marketing a wide range of blood glucose monitoring systems and software
for use by individuals with diabetes and health care institutions. LifeScan brands include the
ONETOUCH®Brand of consumer products, consisting of portable, electronic meters and disposable
reagent test strips to provide accurate, less painful blood glucose readings, and the SURESTEP®
www.lifescan.com Brand of institutional systems.
McNeil Consumer & Specialty Pharmaceuticals, a division of McNeil-PPC, Inc., markets a range of
over-the-counter and prescription pharmaceuticals including complete lines of TYLENOL®
Acetaminophen and MOTRIN®IB Ibuprofen products for adults and children. Other McNeil OTC
brands include IMODIUM®A-D Anti-diarrheal, ST. JOSEPH®Adult Regimen Aspirin and NIZORAL®
A-D Shampoo. Its prescription products include CONCERTA®(methylphenidate HCl) for attention
deficit hyperactivity disorder, and FLOXIN®Otic (ofloxacin otic solution) for ear infections, which
www.tylenol.com McNeil co-markets with Daiichi Pharmaceutical Corp.
McNeil Nutritionals, a division of McNeil-PPC, Inc., markets innovative nutritional products and
dietary alternatives. Its major franchises include BENECOL®cholesterol-lowering foods and
supplements, LACTAID®products that enable lactose-intolerant consumers to enjoy dairy foods,
SPLENDA®(sucralose) no calorie sweetener with broad-based applications, and VIACTIV®, for
www.benecol.com calcium supplementation.
Johnson & Johnson Networking & Computing Services provides a broad range of networking
and computing technology products, services and solutions to Johnson & Johnson operating com-
panies throughout the world. The group also provides leadership for the optimization of the
enterprise information management infrastructure and in the development of emerging infra-
structure technologies that can create new business opportunities for its internal customers.
Neutrogena Corporation develops, manufactures and markets premium, high quality skin and
hair care products that are sold worldwide and recommended by medical professionals.The prod-
uct line includes bar and liquid cleansers, shampoo, hand cream, body lotion, facial moisturizers,
bath preparations and cosmetics, as well as other hair and skin care products. Through the
Ortho-Neutrogena group, the company markets skin and hair care products recommended, used
www.neutrogena.com and prescribed by dermatologists.
Noramco, Inc. produces a variety of active pharmaceutical ingredients besides being a major world-
wide producer of medicinal analgesics, pharmaceutical intermediates and synthetic fine organic
www.noramco.com chemicals. It also produces monomers and polymers for pharmaceutical and medical devices.
61Ortho Biotech Products, L.P. and its worldwide affiliates market PROCRIT®(Epoetin alfa), also
known as EPREX®and ERYPO®outside the U.S., used to treat anemia associated with specific
diseases. The company also markets ORTHOCLONE®OKT3®(muromonab-CD3), a monoclonal
antibody used to reverse rejection of transplanted organs; SPORANOX®(itraconazole) for difficult-
to-treat and life-threatening fungal infections; LEUSTATIN®(cladribine) for hairy cell leukemia,
and DURAGESIC®(fentanyl transdermal system) for moderate to severe chronic pain in cancer
patients. In the U.S., Ortho Biotech markets DOXIL®(doxorubicin HCl liposome injection) for
www.orthobiotech.com ovarian cancer and Kaposi’s sarcoma.
Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc. provides professional diagnostic products to hospital laboratories,
commercial clinical laboratories and blood donor centers. Its products include reagents used in
blood transfusions and blood screening; reagents and instrument systems for clinical chemistry;
and RhoGAM®, an injectable drug used to prevent hemolytic disease of the newborn.
www.orthoclinical.com
Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, Inc. provides prescription drugs in the following categories:
women’s health, analgesics, anti-infectives, anti-epileptics and urology. The company is a pioneer
and leader in the area of reproductive health, where leading contraceptive products include
ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN®LO (norgestimate/ethinyl estradiol) and ORTHO EVRA®
(norelgestromin/ethinyl estradiol), the first weekly contraceptive patch. Other leading products
include ULTRACET™(tramadol HCI), a pain medication; LEVAQUIN®(levofloxacin), an antibiotic;
DITROPAN XL®(oxybutynin chloride) for overactive bladder; ELMIRON™(pentosan polysulfate
www.ortho-mcneil.com sodium) for interstitial cystitis; and TOPAMAX®(topiramate), the anti-epilepsy medication.
Personal Products Company, a division of McNeil-PPC, Inc., develops, produces and markets
innovative oral health, women’s health and sanitary protection products. It is a leader in the oral
health market with a full line of REACH®floss, ACT®rinse and REACH®toothbrush products.
Personal Products is also a leader in women’s health products with MONISTAT®vaginal yeast
cures, K-Y®personal lubricant, URISTAT®urinary pain relief tablets and vaginal contraceptives.
The company’s comprehensive line of sanitary products includes CAREFREE®pantiliners, o.b.®
www.itsmybody.com tampons and STAYFREE®maxi pads.
The Pharmaceutical Sourcing Group – Americas, a division of Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, Inc.,
integrates the Johnson & Johnson pharmaceutical operations and quality assurance organizations
within the Americas, thereby enhancing supply chain performance.
RoC®is a line of products for the care of sensitive skin that includes lotions, cosmetics and creams
for the face and body, anda sun protection line.
www.roc.com
The Spectacle Lens Group, a division of Johnson & Johnson Vision Care, Inc., designs, develops,
manufactures and markets innovative spectacle lenses. The first line of products is a newly
patented innovation in the Progressive Addition Lens market designed to meet the needs of
today’s presbyopes.
Therakos, Inc. specializes in extracorporeal cell-based therapies for the prevention and treatment
of serious immune-mediated and neoplastic diseases that have substantial unmet medical needs.
Therakos’ proprietary procedures in photopheresis are currently approved and successfully used
by physicians for the palliative treatment of the skin manifestations of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.
Additional research is under way for the treatment of autoimmune disease, complications of
www.therakos.com transplantation and improved delivery of the therapy.
Vistakon, a division of Johnson & Johnson Vision Care, Inc., is the world’s leading disposable
contact lens brand. ACUVUE®, ACUVUE®2, and SUREVUE®Brands are market-leading spherical
brands. 1-DAY ACUVUE®Brand is the top-selling daily disposable product worldwide. The ACUVUE®
Brand Bifocal Contact Lens is the leading disposable product for presbyopes. ACUVUE®Brand Toric
is our unique lens for people with astigmatism. New ACUVUE®2 COLOURS™Brand Contact Lenses,
www.jnjvision.com launched around the world, offer exceptional comfort and handling in seven natural-looking colors.
62Worldwide Family of Companies
United States Gynecare LifeScan,Inc.
Somerville, New Jersey Milpitas, California
Advanced Sterilization Products
B. Schwartz, Ph.D., Worldwide President P. B. Luther, President
Irvine, California
S. Corsaro, President Johnson & Johnson Wound Management McNeil Consumer &Specialty
Pharmaceuticals
Somerville, New Jersey
ALZA Corporation Division of McNeil-PPC, Inc.
D. Wildman, Worldwide President
Mountain View, California Fort Washington, Pennsylvania
H. B. Rosen, President Ethicon Endo-Surgery,Inc. W. L. McComb, President
Cincinnati, Ohio
BabyCenter,L.L.C. McNeil Nutritionals
R. Salerno, President
San Francisco, California Division of McNeil-PPC, Inc.
M. Baker, General Manager Independence Technology,L.L.C. Fort Washington, Pennsylvania
Warren, New Jersey C. F. Watts, President
Centocor,Inc.
J.-L. Butel, President
Malvern, Pennsylvania Neutrogena Corporation
W. A. Vernon, President Janssen Pharmaceutica Products,L.P. Los Angeles, California
Titusville, New Jersey E. M. McNamara, Global President
Cordis Corporation
A. Gorsky, President
Cardiology
Ortho-Neutrogena
Miami, Florida Johnson & Johnson
Skillman, New Jersey
D. P. O’Dwyer, Worldwide President Consumer Products Company
A. Altomari, General Manager
Division of Johnson & Johnson
Endovascular Consumer Companies, Inc. Noramco,Inc.
Warren, New Jersey Skillman, New Jersey Athens, Georgia
C. L. Zilm, Worldwide President S. K. D’Agostino, Global President, R. E. Perkins, President
Skin Care
Biosense Webster Inc. Ortho Biotech Products,L.P.
S. McCoy, President,
Diamond Bar, California Bridgewater, New Jersey
Baby/Kids and Wound Care
G. J. Lebeau, M.D., Worldwide President G. M. Reedy, President
Johnson & Johnson
Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics,Inc.
Neurovascular DevelopmentCorporation
Raritan, New Jersey
Miami, Florida New Brunswick, New Jersey
Rochester, New York
G. J. Lebeau, M.D., Worldwide President D. P. Holveck, President
C. M. Burzik, President
DePuy Johnson & Johnson Gateway,L.L.C.
Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical,Inc.
DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. Piscataway, New Jersey
Raritan, New Jersey
Warsaw, Indiana L. Lee, Worldwide Vice President
S. H. Z. Fischer, President
K. K. Sidow, Worldwide President
Johnson & Johnson Health Care Systems,Inc.
Personal Products Company
DePuy AcroMed, Inc. Piscataway, New Jersey
Division of McNeil-PPC, Inc.
Raynham, Massachusetts M. W. Barstad, President, Acute Care
Skillman, New Jersey
E. R. Fender, Worldwide President D. J. Martin, President,
M. E. Sneed, Global President
Managed Markets
Codman & Shurtleff, Inc.
Pharmaceutical Sourcing Group
Johnson & Johnson•Merck
Raynham, Massachusetts — Americas
Consumer Pharmaceuticals Co.
G. Kashuba, Worldwide President Raritan, New Jersey
Fort Washington, Pennsylvania
C. E. Austin, President
P. K. Miller, President
Mitek Products
Westwood, Massachusetts Johnson & Johnson Networking The Spectacle Lens Group of
Johnson & Johnson Vision Care,Inc.
R. Bianchi, Worldwide President &Computing Services
Roanoke, Virginia
Raritan, New Jersey
eJNJ,L.L.C. J. F. Hogan, President
M. A. Shea, President
North Brunswick, New Jersey
Therakos,Inc.
J. M. Hammitt, President Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical
Research & Development,L.L.C. Exton, Pennsylvania
Ethicon,Inc. Raritan, New Jersey R. N. Davis, President
CardioVations H. F. Weisman, M.D., President
Vistakon Division of
Somerville, New Jersey
Johnson & Johnson Vision Care,Inc.
R. C. Coradini, Worldwide President Johnson & Johnson
Sales and Logistics Company Jacksonville, Florida
Ethicon Products Division of Johnson & Johnson D. M. Casey, Jr., Group President,
Somerville, New Jersey Consumer Companies, Inc. Global Franchise and Americas
C. E. Holland, Worldwide President New Brunswick, New Jersey
J. Colleran, President
63Canada Mexico Czech Republic
Janssen-Cilag Farmaceutica, Janssen-Cilag
Janssen-Ortho Inc. S.A. de C.V. Prague
North York, Ontario Mexico City
Johnson & Johnson spol. s.r.o.
Johnson & Johnson Inc. Johnson & Johnson de Mexico, Prague
Montreal, Quebec S.A. de C.V.
Denmark
Mexico City
Johnson & Johnson Medical Products Janssen-Cilag
Markham, Ontario Johnson & Johnson Medical Mexico, Birkerod
S.A. de C.V.
England
LifeScan Canada Ltd.
Mexico City
Cordis U.K. Limited
Burnaby, British Columbia
Panama South Ascot
McNeil Consumer Healthcare, Canada Johnson & Johnson Central America
DePuy International Limited
Guelph, Ontario Panama City
Leeds
Ortho Biotech Peru
Ethicon Endo-Surgery U.K.
Toronto, Ontario Johnson & Johnson del Peru S.A.
Bracknell
Lima
Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics
Mississauga, Ontario Puerto Rico Janssen-Cilag Limited
Johnson & Johnson (Caribbean) High Wycombe
Vistakon Caguas
Johnson & Johnson Limited
Markham, Ontario
Johnson & Johnson Medical (Caribbean) Maidenhead
Caguas
Latin America LifeScan U.K.
Uruguay High Wycombe
Argentina Johnson & Johnson de Uruguay S.A.
Janssen-Cilag Farmaceutica Montevideo Ortho Biotech
Buenos Aires High Wycombe
Venezuela
Johnson & Johnson de Janssen-Cilag Farmaceutica C.A. Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics
Argentina S.A. C.e.l. Caracas Amersham
Buenos Aires
Johnson & Johnson de Venezuela, S.A. Vistakon Europe
Johnson & Johnson Medical S.A. Caracas Bracknell
Buenos Aires
Finland
Brazil Europe Janssen-Cilag OY
Janssen-Cilag Farmaceutica Ltda. Espoo
Austria
São Paulo
Janssen-Cilag G.m.b.H. France
Johnson & Johnson Indústria Vienna Cordis S.A.
Issy-Les-Moulineaux
e Comércio Ltda.
Johnson & Johnson G.m.b.H.
São Paulo
Hallein DePuy France S.A.
Lyon
Johnson & Johnson Professional
Johnson & Johnson Medical G.m.b.H.
Products Ltda.
Vienna Ethicon S.A.
São Paulo
Issy-Les-Moulineaux
Belgium
Chile
Janssen-Cilag N.V. Ethicon Endo-Surgery S.A.
Johnson & Johnson de Chile S.A.
Antwerp Issy-Les-Moulineaux
Santiago
Colombia Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V. Janssen-Cilag S.A.
Janssen-Cilag Farmaceutica S.A. Beerse Issy-Les-Moulineaux
Bogota
Johnson &Johnson Consumer Benelux Johnson & Johnson
Johnson & Johnson de Colombia S.A. Brussels Consumer France S.A.S.
Cali Issy-Les-Moulineaux
LifeScan Benelux N.V.
Johnson & Johnson Medical Colombia Beerse LifeScan
Bogota Issy-Les-Moulineaux
Tibotec-Virco N.V.
Mechelen
64Ortho Biotech DePuy Italy SRL Scotland
Issy-Les-Moulineaux Milan Ethicon Limited
Edinburgh
Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics S.A. Ethicon S.p.A.
Issy-Les-Moulineaux Rome Slovenia
Johnson & Johnson S.E.
Germany Ethicon Endo-Surgery Ljubljana
Cordis G.m.b.H. Rome
Langenfeld Spain
Janssen-Cilag S.p.A. Janssen-Cilag S.A.
DePuy Orthopädie G.m.b.H. Milan Madrid
Sulzbach
Johnson & Johnson S.p.A. Johnson & Johnson S.A.
Ethicon G.m.b.H. Rome Madrid
Norderstedt
LifeScan Johnson & Johnson Medical
Ethicon Endo-Surgery Milan Madrid
(Europe) G.m.b.H.
Norderstedt Ortho Biotech Johnson & Johnson•Merck Europe
Milan Madrid
Janssen-Cilag G.m.b.H.
Rosellen Ortho-Clinical LifeScan
Diagnostics S.p.A. Madrid
Johnson & Johnson G.m.b.H. Milan
Düsseldorf Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics
Vistakon Madrid
LifeScan G.m.b.H. Rome
Sweden
Neckargemund
The Netherlands Janssen-Cilag AB
Ortho Biotech Cordis Benelux Sollentuna
Rosellen Amersfoort
Johnson & Johnson AB
Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics G.m.b.H. Janssen-Cilag B.V. Sollentuna
Neckargemund Tilburg
Johnson & Johnson Consumer
Vistakon Johnson & Johnson/Gaba B.V. Products
Norderstedt Almere Sollentuna
Greece Johnson & Johnson Medical B.V. Switzerland
Janssen-Cilag Pharmaceutical S.A.C.I. Zaventem Cilag AG
Athens Schaffhausen
Norway
Johnson & Johnson Hellas S.A. Janssen-Cilag AS Greiter AG
Athens Oslo Baar
Johnson & Johnson Poland Janssen-Cilag
Medical Products S.A. Janssen-Cilag Zug
Athens Warsaw
Janssen-Cilag AG
Hungary Johnson & Johnson Poland, Sp. z.o.o. Baar
Janssen-Cilag Kft. Warsaw
Budapest Johnson & Johnson AG
Portugal
Spreitenbach
Johnson & Johnson Kft. Janssen-Cilag Farmaceutica, Ltda.
Budapest Queluz McNeil Consumer Nutritionals Europe
Zug
Ireland Johnson & Johnson Limitada
Janssen-Cilag Pharmaceutical Limited Queluz Ortho Biotech
Cork Baar
Johnson & Johnson Professional
Johnson & Johnson (Ireland) Limited Products, Limitada Turkey
Tallaght Queluz Johnson & Johnson Limited
Istanbul
Italy Russia
Cordis S.p.A. Johnson & Johnson L.L.C. Janssen-Cilag
Milan Moscow Istanbul
65Asia-Pacific,Africa P.T. Johnson & Johnson Indonesia Saudi Arabia
Jakarta Johnson & Johnson Saudi Arabia
Australia
Riyadh
DePuy Australia Pty. Ltd. Israel
Nottinghill, Victoria Biosense Europe Singapore
Haifa Janssen-Cilag Singapore/Malaysia
Janssen-Cilag Pty. Ltd. Singapore
North Ryde Janssen-Cilag
Kibbutz Shefayim Johnson & Johnson Medical Singapore
Johnson & Johnson Medical Pty. Ltd. Singapore
North Ryde Johnson & Johnson Consumer
Kibbutz Shefayim Johnson & Johnson Pte. Ltd.
Johnson & Johnson Pacific Pty. Limited Singapore
Sydney Johnson & Johnson Medical
Kibbutz Shefayim Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics
Tasmanian Alkaloids Pty. Limited Singapore
Japan
Westbury, Tasmania
DePuy Japan, Inc. South Africa
China Tokyo Janssen-Cilag (Pty.) Ltd.
Johnson & Johnson China Ltd. Sandton
Shanghai Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K.
Tokyo Johnson & Johnson (Pty.) Limited
Johnson & Johnson Medical Ltd. East London
Shanghai Johnson & Johnson K.K.
Tokyo Johnson & Johnson Medical (Pty.) Ltd.
Shanghai Johnson & Johnson Ltd. Halfway House
Shanghai Johnson & Johnson Medical
Tokyo Taiwan
Shanghai Johnson & Johnson Janssen-Cilag Taiwan
Pharmaceuticals Ltd. Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics K.K. Taipei
Shanghai Tokyo
Johnson & Johnson Medical Taiwan
Xian-Janssen Pharmaceutical Ltd. Vistakon Japan Taipei
Beijing Tokyo
Johnson & Johnson Taiwan, Ltd.
Egypt Korea Taipei
Johnson & Johnson (Egypt) S.A.E. Janssen-Cilag Korea, Ltd.
Cairo Seoul Thailand
Janssen-Cilag Pharmaceutica Limited
Hong Kong Johnson & Johnson Korea, Ltd. Bangkok
Janssen-Cilag Seoul
Hong Kong Johnson & Johnson Asean Limited
Johnson & Johnson Medical Korea Ltd. Bangkok
Johnson & Johnson (Hong Kong) Limited Seoul
Hong Kong Johnson & Johnson Medical Thailand
Malaysia
Bangkok
Johnson & Johnson Medical Hong Kong Johnson & Johnson Sdn. Bhd.
Hong Kong Selangor Darul Ehsan United Arab Emirates
Johnson & Johnson (Middle East) Inc.
Morocco
Vistakon Dubai
Johnson & Johnson Morocco S.A.
Hong Kong
Casablanca
India
Pakistan
Janssen-Cilag
Johnson & Johnson Pakistan
Mumbai
(Private) Limited
Johnson & Johnson Limited Karachi
Mumbai
Philippines
Janssen-Cilag Philippines
Johnson & Johnson Professional
Metro Manila
Mumbai
Indonesia Johnson & Johnson (Philippines), Inc.
Janssen-Cilag Pharmaceutica Metro Manila
Jakarta
66Corporate and Shareholder/Investor Information
Principal Office Common Stock Dividend ReinvestmentPlan
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza Listed on New York Stock Exchange The Plan allows for full or partial
New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933 Stock Symbol JNJ dividend reinvestment, and additional
(732) 524-0400 monthly cash investments up to $50,000
Shareholder Relations Contact
per year, in Johnson & Johnson stock
Annual Meeting Michael H. Ullmann
without brokerage commissions or
The Annual Meeting of Shareholders will Corporate Secretary
service charges on stock purchases. If
take place April 24, 2003, at the Hyatt (732) 524-2455
you are interested in joining the Plan
Regency New Brunswick, 2 Albany
Investor Relations Contact and need an authorization form and/or
Street, New Brunswick, New Jersey.
Helen E. Short
more background information, please
The meeting will convene at 10 A.M.
Vice President, Investor Relations
call EquiServe Trust Company, N.A. at
All shareholders are cordially invited
(800) 950-5089
(800) 328-9033 or (781) 575-2718
to attend. A formal Notice of Meeting,
(732) 524-6492
(outside the U.S.).
Proxy Statement and Proxy have been
sent to shareholders. Transfer Agentand Registrar Hearing Impaired
Questions regarding stock holdings,
Shareholders who have inquiries regard-
Reports Available
certificate replacement/transfer,
ing stock-related matters can communi-
Copies of the Company’s 2002 Annual
dividends and address changes should
cate directly with EquiServe Trust
Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly
be directed to:
Company, N.A. via a telecommunications
Reports on Form 10-Q to the Securities
EquiServe Trust Company, N.A.
device (TDD). The telephone number
and Exchange Commission, and the
P. O. Box 43069
for this service is (800) 952-9245,
Annual Report are available online at
Providence, Rhode Island 02940-3069
(800) 490-1493 or (781) 575-2692
www.jnj.com, or to shareholders without
(800) 328-9033 or (781) 575-2718
(outside the U.S.).
charge upon written request to the
(outside the U.S.)
Secretary at the Company’s principal World Wide Web Site
office or by calling (800) 328-9033 or Internet: (EquiServe Home Page) http://www.jnj.com
(781) 575-2718 (outside the U.S.). http://www.EquiServe.com
The following trademarks, service marks and trade names of Johnson & Johnson and its affiliated companies appear in this report:
ACE, ACROMED, ACT, ACUVUE, ACUVUE 2, ACUVUE 2 COLOURS, 1-DAY ACUVUE, AQUA T3, AVEENO, BABYCENTER.COM, BAND-AID,
BENECOL, Bx VELOCITY, CARDIOVATIONS, CAREFREE, CIDEX, CLEAN & CLEAR, CODMAN, COMPEED, CONCERTA, CORDIS, CYPHER,
DAKTARIN, DEFINITY 2, DEPUY, DERMABOND, DITROPAN, DOXIL, DURAGESIC, DUROGESIC, DUROTEP, eJNJ, ELMIRON, EPREX, ERGAMISOL,
ERYPO, ETHICON, ETHICON ENDO-SURGERY, EUROFLASH, FLOXIN, GLOBAL, GYNECARE, GYNECARE INTERGEL, GYNECARE TVT,
HAKIM, HALDOL, ID-MICRO TYPING SYSTEM, IMODIUM, INDEPENDENCE iBOT, INDEPENDENCE iGLIDE, INDEPENDENCE TECHNOLOGY,
INDUO, K-Y, JANSSEN, JANSSEN-CILAG, JOHNSON & JOHNSON, JOHNSON’S, JOHNSON’S pH5.5, LACTAID, LAP DISC, LEUSTATIN,
LIFESCAN, MAMMOTOME, MAX, MaxPRO, MCNEIL, MITEK, MONARCH, MONISTAT, MOTILIUM, MOTRIN, MYLANTA, NATUSAN,
NEUTROGENA, NIZORAL, o.b., ONETOUCH, OROS, ORTHO, ORTHO BIOTECH, ORTHO-CLINICAL DIAGNOSTICS, ORTHOCLONE OKT3, ORTHO
EVRA, ORTHO-MCNEIL, ORTHO-NOVUM, ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN, PARENTCENTER.COM, PENATEN, PERSONAL PRODUCTS COMPANY, PINNACLE,
PIZ BUIN, POSITIVELY RADIANT, PRESERVATION, PROCRIT, PROLENE, PROMOGRAN, PROPULSID, PURPOSE, RAZOR DEFENSE, REACH,
REMICADE, REMINYL, REOPRO, RETAVASE, RETIN-A MICRO, RhoGAM, RISPERDAL, RISPERDAL CONSTA, RoC, ST. JOSEPH, SHOWER TO
SHOWER, SIMPLY COUGH, SIMPLY STUFFY, SMARTSCAN, SPLENDA, SPORANOX, STAYFREE, STERRAD, STUGERON, SUNDOWN, SUMMIT,
SURESTEP, SUREVUE, SURGIFOAM, The Campaign for Nursing’s Future, TOPAMAX, TRICILEST, TYLENOL, ULTRA, ULTRACET, ULTRASMART,
URISTAT, VIACTIV, VICRYL, WATCHBAND INCISION, VISTAKON.
The following trademarks of other companies also appear in this report: ACIPHEX and PARIET (Eisai Co., Ltd.), LEVAQUIN (Daiichi
Pharmaceutical Co.), NATRECOR (Scios Inc.), PEPCID (Merck & Co., Inc.), Together Rx (Together Rx, LLC).
This Annual Report is printed in its entirety on recycled paper.
© Johnson & Johnson 2003Our Credo
We believe our first responsibility is to the doctors, nurses and patients, to mothers
and fathers and all others who use our products and services. In meeting their
needs everything we do must be of high quality. We must constantly strive to
reduce our costs in order to maintain reasonable prices. Customers’ orders must
be serviced promptly and accurately. Our suppliers and distributors must have an
opportunity to make a fair profit.
We are responsible to our employees, the men and women who work with us
throughout the world. Everyone must be considered as an individual. We must
respect their dignity and recognize their merit. They must have a sense of security
in their jobs. Compensation must be fair and adequate, and working conditions
clean, orderly and safe. We must be mindful of ways to help our employees fulfill
their family responsibilities. Employees must feel free to make suggestions and
complaints. There must be equal opportunity for employment, development
and advancement for those qualified. We must provide competent management,
and their actions must be just and ethical.
We are responsible to the communities in which we live and work and to the world
community as well. We must be good citizens – support good works and charities
and bear our fair share of taxes. We must encourage civic improvements and
better health and education. We must maintain in good order the property we are
privileged to use, protecting the environment and natural resources.
Our final responsibility is to our stockholders. Business must make a sound
profit. We must experiment with new ideas. Research must be carried on, innovative
programs developed and mistakes paid for. New equipment must be purchased,
new facilities provided and new products launched. Reserves must be created
to provide for adverse times. When we operate according to these principles,
the stockholders should realize a fair return.
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza, New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933