2022
Health
for Humanity
Report
Scientist Jan G. is shown working in Johnson & Johnson’s molecule
library, which stores more than 1.7 million unique compounds. Our
scientists can access this library to order compounds for R&D activities
at Johnson & Johnson. Photo by Frederik Beyens.2022 Health for
Humanity Report Our Approach
22
Diverse Surgeon Initiative 2.0 participants Ryan Randle, M.D., and Michelle Salazar, M.D., M.H.Sc., participate in a laparoscopic surgery hands-on lab.GRI 2-22
2022 Health for
During a year of achievement and evolution, Johnson & Johnson Leading with accountability and innovation. Grounded in the
Humanity Report met important global targets, including: belief that science and technology will advance healthcare more in
this decade than in the last century, we invested nearly $15 billion in
Championing global health equity. I am pleased that we ranked
R&D in 2022 and integrated digital capabilities into how we work.
#2 on the 2022 Access to Medicine Index, which evaluates the
world’s largest pharmaceutical companies on their efforts to Already, the use of data science in drug
distribute medicines to low- and middle-income countries. We
Message From Our Chairman & CEO discovery has advanced our three treatments
also exceeded our Health for Humanity 2025 Goal to support
for multiple myeloma, the second most common
1.3 million frontline health workers with tools and training. Other
initiatives include the Johnson & Johnson Center for Health Worker blood cancer, providing transformational care
Innovation, which has committed $15 million over three years to for cancer patients.
Message From Our the Africa Frontline First Catalytic Fund to expand the professional
workforce of community health workers in ten African countries. Data science is also applied to our R&D ecosystem of medical
Chairman & CEO devices, software and robotics solutions, helping healthcare
Empowering our employees. Our continued focus on accelerating providers care for patients with greater precision and efficiency.
diversity, equity and inclusion outcomes helps us meet the Following the acquisition of Abiomed, Inc., the world leader in
changing needs of the communities we serve. I am proud that we heart recovery solutions, we are integrating their technology and
achieved our Health for Humanity 2025 Goal of reaching 35 percent expanding our leadership in cardiovascular care.
racial and ethnic diversity in U.S. management roles. We are also on
To Our Global Community,
track to achieve gender parity for women in management positions Technology is also helping our supply chain make leaps forward in
around the world. To upskill our employees, we launched J&J Learn, productivity, efficiency and sustainability. This fact was recognized
In a world of opportunity and innovation, Johnson & Johnson a dynamic development ecosystem to ensure easy access to learning by the World Economic Forum, which has granted 11 (three new in
is committed to improving the health of people everywhere. and growth opportunities. We also enhanced mental health resources 2022) Lighthouse designations to our manufacturing facilities.
for our employees and their families.
We are guided by Our Credo, a set of values As we reflect on 2022’s accomplishments, we do so with an eye to
that inspires our more than 153,000 employees a different but no less exciting future. In 2023, we are on track to
advance two global companies: Kenvue—a new consumer health
to put the needs and well-being of the people
company—and Johnson & Johnson—dedicated to Pharmaceutical
we serve first. For 80 years, it has motivated
and MedTech—that will be uniquely positioned in a fast-moving
us to solve complex health challenges with healthcare landscape.
a spirit of innovation.
In this report, you will discover many other insights about how
Johnson & Johnson is creating long-term and sustainable value.
Improving the health for humanity is Our Purpose and shared
responsibility. I am honored as Chairman and CEO to continue In the years to come, we are committed to lead and seize
this legacy. opportunities for humanity while following Our Credo values.
Our solid financial performance in 2022 was driven by an industry- Joaquin Duato with Johnson & Johnson colleagues attending the American Society Thank you for your interest.
of Hematology Annual Meeting in New Orleans, Louisiana.
leading portfolio of scientific and technological innovations that are
Advancing environmental health. In 2022, we secured a deal to
reshaping many aspects of healthcare. Our Environmental, Social
source 100 percent renewable electricity for our operations in
and Governance (ESG) strategy underpins our business performance
Brazil. We also joined a collaboration of pharmaceutical companies
with our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals as key performance
to support ingredient suppliers’ efforts to decarbonize. In addition,
indicators of our progress. These frameworks guide our decisions
we expanded our pharmaceuticals U.S. Safe Returns program to Joaquin Duato
and direct our positive contributions to society, the economy and
Switzerland, with plans to add more countries this year. Also in Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
sustainable development. They also remind us how much more we
Europe, we expanded our single-use device hospital recycling
can do for the world.
program to eight countries.
32022 Health for
independent Directors—provides robust leadership and oversight. Operations & Risk Officer and Executive Committee member,
Humanity Report But the Board’s oversight and, at times, the responsibilities for and overseen by the Board. This type of oversight is not a new
our standing Committees, must evolve to meet our fiduciary responsibility for our Board, and we view compliance and business
obligations and the changing needs of the Company. For example, opportunity as closely linked—not in tension—when it comes
in 2021, the Board formed a Special Committee to oversee the to our strategy. Ethical and compliant conduct is the basis for
separation of the Consumer Health business, and this Special a successful business and can be an enabler of opportunity by
Committee remained active through 2022. addressing ESG matters in a strategic and holistic way.
Our Board at Johnson & Johnson realized this connection long
Q&A With Our Lead Director
How has Johnson & Johnson embedded ESG into its
ago, and we have significantly integrated ESG matters in our
Q&A With business operations?
Board agenda. For example, in 2021, I joined the Board Committee
Johnson & Johnson has a longstanding commitment to creating Chairs overseeing risk and sustainability topics in engaging in the
Our Lead Director
long-term value for all stakeholders both to mitigate risk and Company’s most recent ESG Priority Topics Assessment, the results
to explore and develop new business opportunities. These of which have informed the Company’s reporting and disclosure
responsibilities are outlined in the Company’s Credo, a set of and will play a significant role in Johnson & Johnson’s next set of
business principles that have guided the Company for 80 years. The public goals.
Board’s understanding of—and perspective on—environmental,
In 2022, the Board decided to realign Committee responsibilities
Anne M. Mulcahy, Lead Director of the social and governance matters and their relevance to value and enhanced and expanded the scope of the Regulatory
creation has evolved significantly over the past several years, and
Johnson & Johnson Board of Directors, Compliance & Sustainability Committee. This action better
we have taken many opportunities to engage with the business to
positions the Board to oversee certain ESG matters alongside
plays a pivotal role in ensuring our Board is help guide ESG considerations in decision making across many
other compliance matters.
aspects of the Company’s activities. For example, we supported
deeply engaged with our ESG strategy and
the formalization of Johnson & Johnson’s ESG strategy in 2022
progress. Anne shares some insights below and monitored progress on the ESG strategy-aligned Health for What do you believe to be the greatest opportunity that Johnson &
Johnson has to create long-term value for all stakeholders?
in response to questions that reflect current Humanity 2025 Goals. This plays out in the integration of global
health equity—a core ESG key focus area—in different business Financial results will always be an important measure of
interests of key stakeholders.
processes. For example, Janssen, the Company’s pharmaceutical performance, but Johnson & Johnson will continue its sustainable
business, actively addresses health inequities by improving diverse long-term growth through operating with a focus on the future
How have changes in Johnson & Johnson’s business recruitment for clinical trials and supporting the next generation and by refusing to compromise on Our Credo values. It is a core
environment in 2022 affected the nature of the Board’s of underrepresented diverse physicians. Advancing environmental responsibility of the Board to capitalize on the Company’s position
oversight responsibilities? health is another ESG priority, and J&J MedTech, is advancing of strength as a leader in healthcare by guiding Johnson & Johnson
circularity by partnering with hospitals in Europe to recycle metal to address the pressing concerns of today while preparing to meet
As a Board at the helm of a very dynamic organization, we are
and plastic components from single-use surgical instruments. The the challenges of tomorrow. Investments in R&D, data science
constantly evaluating how a changing world is affecting the
program is currently active in eight countries. We’re very excited and digital innovation are central to advancing the Company’s
Company’s business and how we as a Board must respond to both
about these projects, and more like them are underway. ESG strategy, and these investments are reflected in the strategies
current and emerging challenges, and also to opportunities. This
of Johnson & Johnson’s business segments and Enterprise
was particularly true in 2022, as the Company navigated social
We have taken many opportunities to engage functions. These emerging fields will drive value creation
unrest and conflict in many parts of the world, supply chain issues,
throughout the Company.
increased inflation and interest rates, extreme weather events with the business to help guide ESG considerations
and more … all while preparing for a successful separation of the in decision making across many aspects of the I’m very excited for the future at Johnson & Johnson, especially
Consumer Health business segment. with its focus on innovation, which enables the Company to
Company’s activities.
pursue both its purpose and performance with equal commitment.
Johnson & Johnson has long thrived in a changing environment;
Transformational innovation, science and technology are
the Company has been doing so for more than 135 years. As the With increasing regulation expected in ESG matters in the U.S.
fundamental to the Company’s strong financial performance, and
independent Lead Director for the Johnson & Johnson Board of and other countries around the world, will the role of the Board
it is this powerful financial performance that enables Johnson &
Directors, I work closely with our Chairman of the Board and Chief become more about compliance than opportunity?
Johnson to sustain and exceed its investment in lifesaving and
Executive Officer as he focuses on the Company’s trajectory of
As a highly regulated business, Johnson & Johnson relies on life-enhancing innovations, benefiting millions of patients and
long-term growth. Our current Board structure—an Independent
a robust compliance organization, led by our Chief Technical consumers each year.
Lead Director and five standing Committees comprised entirely of
4Year in Brief
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Champion global health equity Empower our employees Advance environmental health
>180 million 36% 100%
Year in Brief
patients treated with a Janssen medicine ethnic/racial diversity in management positions within renewable electricity
the U.S., achieving the Health for Humanity 2025 Goal secured for our operations
in Brazil starting in 2023
>586,000 through a Direct Power
>130,000 Purchase Agreement
cumulative doses of SIRTURO (bedaquiline) treatments
for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis shipped employees (92%)
responded to Our Credo Survey, CDP A List
with an 87% favorability rate
#2 among participants—a testament for leadership in climate action for
to our values-driven culture the fifth year in a row
ranking in the 2022 Access to Medicine Index,
reflecting our strategy to enable access to our
medicines and technologies for people in low-
J&J Learn New multiyear
and middle-income countries
collaborative initiative
launched as a dynamic
learning and development
1.3 million (DiCE—Digital Health in a Circular Economy)
ecosystem that empowers
launched by Janssen, with co-funding from the
nurses, midwives and community health workers employees with continuous EU Horizon Europe program, to address digital
supported with skills, tools and growth through opportunities for reskilling, health waste
the Johnson & Johnson Center for Health Worker upskilling and development
Innovation, exceeding the Health for Humanity Goal1
Lead with accountability $14.6 billion Responsibility 105,000
and innovation
Standards for Suppliers
invested in research employees completed Health Care
and development across Compliance training, the highest
updated with expanded expectations on supplier
our businesses completion number to date
diversity, equity and inclusion, information security
and environmental responsibility
1 Funded in part by the Johnson & Johnson Foundation, a registered charity and a company limited by guarantee, and by the Corporation and operating companies across the Johnson & Johnson 5
Family of Companies. The Foundation operates worldwide as the Johnson & Johnson Foundation United States (founded 1953) and Johnson & Johnson Foundation Scotland (founded 2007).2022 Health for
Recognitions ESG Ratings
Humanity Report Improved Maintained
ESG Rater Score Notes
Ranked as a Ranked #1
Top 50 All-Star
on the Pharmaceutical Industry
Ranked #2 in the Access to Medicine Index
on Fortune’s World’s Most list of the Fortune World’s Most Previous 3.76 Current 4.03 and featured as an Index top-three performer
Score Score
Admired Companies list for Admired Companies list for the for the sixth consecutive year.
the 20th consecutive year ninth year in a row
Year in Brief
Recognized with a CDP A List rating for our
Previous A Current A leadership in climate action for the fifth
Score Score
consecutive year.
Most Innovative Ranked #9
Climate
Companies
on Drucker Institute’s Top
J&J MedTech selected as 250 Best-Managed Companies
Previous A- Current A- Achieved CDP’s A- rating for Water Risk.
one of Fast Company’s Most of 2022 Score Score
Innovative Companies
Water
Scored in the 97th percentile for the
Previous 68 Current 72 pharmaceutical manufacturing sector for the
Score Score
Fifth consecutive year For six years in a row, EcoVadis sustainability assessment for 2022.
with Trendsetter status
included as a Seramount Top
Named to the CPA-Zicklin Index 10 Inclusion Index Member for Included in the FTSE4Good Index Series for
of Corporate Political Disclosure diversity best practices Previous 4.3 Current 4.4 the 22nd year, scoring in the 97th percentile in
Score Score
and Accountability our sector in 2022.
2 Previous B- Current B- Received ISS ESG “good” rating.
Score Score
Best Employer 12th consecutive year
for Diversity
of being a member of the
Forbes 2022 Billion Dollar Roundtable for
Ranked #1 in the pharmaceuticals &
supplier diversity
Moody’s Analytics Previous 54 Current 56 biotechnology sector in North America for
Score Score
Moody’s Analytics’ ESG scorecard for 2022.
Ranked #4 Sixth consecutive year 3 P Sr ce ov ri eous BBB C Scu orr re ent A Achieved MSCI “A” ESG Rating in 2022.
on Gartner Inc.’s annual ranking Named to the 2022 CDP
of top 25 company supply chains Supply Chain Leaderboard
Previous 25.1 Current 24.1 Received Sustainalytics “medium” risk rating.
Score Score
2 Current ISS ESG score from August 8, 2022 update. 3 The use by Johnson & Johnson of any MSCI ESG Research LLC or its affiliates (“MSCI”) data, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not constitute a
sponsorship, endorsement, recommendation, or promotion of Johnson & Johnson by MSCI. MSCI services and data are the property of MSCI or its information providers, and are provided ‘as-is’ and without warranty. MSCI names and logos are trademarks 6
or service marks of MSCI.About Johnson & Johnson GRI 2-1
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Our Purpose Our Business
We blend heart, science and Johnson & Johnson, through its Family of Companies (“the Company”), is the largest, most
ingenuity to profoundly change the diversified healthcare products company, headquartered in New Jersey, U.S. Our operating
trajectory of health for humanity. companies employ approximately 153,700 employees4 in virtually all countries of the world, who
are engaged in the research and development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of products
About Johnson & Johnson
in the healthcare field. We work with more than 46,000 suppliers and hundreds of external
Our Values
manufacturers to support the development and manufacturing of our products worldwide. The
We are driven by Our Credo, a set Company’s product portfolio includes thousands of Pharmaceutical, MedTech and Consumer
of values and principles that, since Health products that address the health and wellness needs of people every day.
1943, has challenged and inspired
us to put the needs and well-being
of the people we serve first.
Financial Results (Millions) Sales by Business Segment (Millions)
Johnson & Johnson is a publicly owned corporation with stock traded on the
Pharmaceutical MedTech Consumer Health*
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:JNJ).
$52,563 $27,427 $14,953
$176.65 61
$14,603 Market price Consecutive • Cardiovascular, • Interventional Solutions • Baby Care
R in& vD es tment $14,714 per share years of dividend Metabolism & Retina • Orthopaedics • Oral Care
(year-end close) increases* • Immunology • Surgery (General & Advanced) • Over-the-Counter Medicines
• Infectious Diseases • Vision • Skin Health/Beauty
$17,941 & Vaccines
Net • Women’s Health
earnings $20,878 • Neuroscience
• Wound Care
• Oncology
$94,943 • Pulmonary Hypertension
Total sales
$93,775
* In November 2021, the Company announced its intention to separate the Company’s Consumer Health business into a new, publicly
traded company. In September 2022, Kenvue was announced as the name for the planned New Consumer Health Company. Kenvue
2021 2022 $ millions was part of Johnson & Johnson for all of 2022 (the reporting period for this 2022 Health for Humanity Report). Kenvue completed an
initial public offering of 198,734,444 shares of its common stock on May 8th, 2023. As of the closing of the initial public offering, the
* Includes dividend declared in April 2023. Company owns approximately 89.6% of the total outstanding shares of Kenvue common stock. The Company remains on track to
complete the separation in 2023, subject to market conditions.
4 Abiomed headcount is not included in this total employee number due to year-end acquisition timing and our Human Resources Information System integration processes. 7ESG Governance GRI 2-12, 2-13, 2-14, 2-23, 2-24, 2-28, 2-29, 3-1, 3-2
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
The Company’s dedication to integrating ESG into our business strategies starts at the highest levels
of leadership, where the Board has overall accountability for ESG risk management oversight.
Effective ESG governance requires both management engagement and Board- Priority Topics Matrix
level oversight. The Board’s ESG risk management approach is designed to
effectively govern and manage the ESG risks and opportunities that are integral
to the Company’s core business strategy. Significant ESG risks are reviewed and
evaluated by the Board and its Committees as part of their ongoing risk oversight
ESG Governance of our Company.
In 2022, we improved ESG governance matters in the following ways:
• W e announced our evolved ESG strategy, focused on championing global
health equity, empowering our employees and advancing environmental
health. Leading with accountability and innovation is foundational to
these efforts.
• T he Enterprise Governance Council, the Company’s primary governance
body for ESG matters, updated its ESG knowledge module and made it
available to all employees to help them understand our ESG management
approach, including our ESG strategy.
• W e held our fifth investor relations ESG webcast in June 2022, to update
shareholders on our ESG performance and progress against our Health for
Humanity 2025 Goals. The webcast included an interview with members of
the Johnson & Johnson Board of Directors and our Chief Financial Officer.
• W e continued to improve our disclosures on ESG topics, including
enhancing our Tax Policy, Position on Disaster Relief and Position on
Employee Development. We also expanded disclosures with additional
metrics for greater transparency.
ESG Priorities
At Johnson & Johnson, we use our materiality assessment, which we call our Priority
Topics Assessment (PTA), to identify, prioritize and strategically address relevant ESG
topics that can have a significant impact on society or our business. Since 2008, we
have conducted the PTA every two to three years. Our last PTA was conducted in
2021 with a double materiality focus, by which we examined ESG priority topics from
two standpoints: the impact of a topic on Johnson & Johnson’s business results and
the impact of Johnson & Johnson’s business on people, the environment and society
in general. Our Priority Topics Matrix presents our ESG priorities.
82022 Health for
ESG Strategy Stakeholder Engagement
Humanity Report
Our ESG strategy is grounded in Our Credo values, informed by both our Company’s purpose to The deep and longstanding relationships we cultivate with our stakeholders are vital to our business
change the trajectory of health for humanity and the views of our external stakeholders. We set our success and our ESG strategy. Johnson & Johnson interacts with numerous stakeholder groups at the
ESG strategy in a deliberate manner, focusing our efforts on the areas where we are well positioned global, national and local levels, including through membership of, and participation in, a broad range
to achieve the greatest impact: championing global health equity, empowering our employees and of advocacy organizations and industry associations.
advancing environmental health. Leading with accountability and innovation is foundational to these
In 2022, our targeted engagement activities included:
efforts. Our ESG approach is designed to effectively govern and manage all risks, including ESG risks,
while also enabling us to identify opportunities that accurately reflect our business strategy. This
Promoting health legislation in the U.S.: The U.S. maternal mortality rate continues to exceed the rate
sustained, focused approach promotes resiliency and drives growth, better positioning us to continue
of other high-income countries, including a 40% increase in 2021.5 In the U.S., Medicaid has a vital
investing for our future and enhancing the long-term value of our business.
role to play in improving maternal health outcomes, with nearly half of all births financed by Medicaid.
ESG Governance
We strongly supported state efforts to advance legislation to extend Medicaid postpartum coverage
to 12 months for new mothers, helping address disproportionate maternal mortality outcomes in
disadvantaged communities.
Johnson & Johnson also joined more than 70 healthcare organizations in advocating for the Dr. Lorna
Breen Health Care Provider Protection Act (H.R. 1667), the first ever federal legislation in the U.S.
directed at protecting the mental health of the country’s healthcare workforce to facilitate the reduction
and prevention of suicide, burnout and mental and behavioral health conditions among HCPs. The Act
became law in March 2022.
While health worker burnout had reached a crisis point before the COVID-19 pandemic,
the acute mental health needs and risk factors among HCPs were brought into sharp focus
in the early days of 2020 as health workers experienced severe work trauma, burnout, and
exhaustion. The tragic death by suicide of emergency room physician, Dr. Lorna Breen,
in April 2020, underscored the urgent need to provide better support services to health
workers. In July 2020, Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA) introduced a bill to protect the mental
health of the healthcare workforce. Developed alongside the Dr. Lorna Breen Heroes’
Foundation with support from Johnson & Johnson, this bill would eventually become the
Dr. Lorna Breen Healthcare Provider Protection Act.
Scroll over the ESG focus areas to learn more
For more information on how we help our stakeholders understand how we are managing the risk
of these relevant ESG topics and embedding sustainability into decision making, which is a critical
component of our ESG governance, please see our ESG Strategy and our ESG Resources.
5 Hoyert DL, “Maternal Mortality Rates in the United States, 2021,” CDC National Health Center for Statistics, 9
https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/hestat/maternal-mortality/2021/maternal-mortality-rates-2021.htm.2022 Health for
Supporting healthcare policy making in Europe: As the founding Strengthening the healthcare industry in Asia: Johnson & Engaging with industry on ESG: We continued to engage
Humanity Report
knowledge partner and sponsor of All Policies for a Healthy Europe Johnson led the healthcare industry presence at the 2022 with the pharmaceutical industry to ensure the expertise of our
Coalition, we strengthened our partnership on the development of Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Leaders’ Week in industry is reflected in the ESG metrics and related disclosures
numerous publications and policy dialogues by the coalition in three Bangkok, Thailand, as the only healthcare company speaking at that are most relevant to the sector. Working as part of the
areas: the economy of well-being (covering the COVID-19 pandemic the event. APEC is a critical and highly influential forum, driving Biopharma Sustainability Roundtable (BSRT), a network that
response, health systems resilience, value-based healthcare and the improvements in healthcare policy, innovation and access across supports sustainability in the biotech and pharmaceutical industry,
EU Beating Cancer policies); the digitalization of health (contributing this large and diverse region of the world. The Leader’s Week was Johnson & Johnson participates in the Biopharma Investor ESG
our expertise to emerging data governance, the European Health the first in-person APEC gathering since 2018 and a significant Communications Initiative, which supports the development of
Data Space and AI policies); and environmental health (supporting opportunity for our global delegation to engage with heads of state decision-useful communications about the sector’s most important
the revision of the ambient air directive). and government leaders from all 21 APEC countries, industry and ESG issues. In 2022, BSRT released the Biopharma Investor ESG
academia. We shared Johnson & Johnson’s perspective on key Communications Guidance 4.0, the result of collaboration among
ESG Governance Janssen has been a leading industry voice shaping the EU
healthcare challenges and the importance of advancing quality leading pharmaceutical companies, including Johnson & Johnson,
Pharmaceutical Strategy, championing patient access to
health data, health financing for innovation and supply chain as well as investor groups.
medicines and strong IP rights. We have shone a light on the
resilience to improve healthcare outcomes.
changes in EU legislation that would diminish IP rights, a critical
element underpinning medical innovation in Europe. Janssen Participating in global convenings to advance healthcare
provides evidence and data to help stakeholders appreciate systems: Leaders from across Johnson & Johnson participated
the need for strong IP protections to develop new treatments in several key events and meetings during the UN General
As a leading pharmaceutical company, we are always
to address unmet medical needs. We also advocate for an agile Assembly in 2022. Our engagement emphasized the importance
seeking to respond positively to investor information
regulatory framework that will allow fast adoption of innovative of advancing equitable access to care, investing in health workers
needs, as well as those of other stakeholders. We
new medicines supported through the use of real-world evidence, and innovation to eradicate pandemic and epidemic diseases,
value the opportunity to collaborate with peer
digital health technology and data sharing. Our activities in 2022 and pandemic response.
companies to define disclosure guidance specific
included direct dialogue with European policymakers and other
to our sector, and we believe this helps elevate
Also in 2022, global health leaders and stakeholders gathered in
stakeholders, along with yearlong media engagement, adding our
ESG awareness and sets a benchmark for investor
Geneva, Switzerland, for the 75th annual World Health Assembly
voice to the public debate.
expectations of our industry.
(WHA), with representation of 194 country delegations. The WHA
provides an important opportunity for partners across sectors
to engage, build and strengthen relationships and to accelerate
action on pressing health challenges facing the world. As a global Monica Neufang
healthcare leader, Johnson & Johnson was an active convenor Vice President, Enterprise ESG Program Office,
Not every asset that we start working on actually and contributor to events during the WHA, providing a critical Johnson & Johnson, member of the Biopharma Investor
makes it to the finish line. IP allows us to generate ESG Communications Initiative Working Group
private sector lens and bringing greater awareness of our unique
return for the value that we bring to patients and
lab-to-last-mile approach to advancing equitable access to care.
society once the therapy is available, and that’s a Engaging stakeholders for this Report: Many internal stakeholders
Our engagement covered key issues, including vaccination to
return that we actually reinvest into developing new across Johnson & Johnson’s global teams provided input for this
eradicate disease such as Ebola, fighting infectious diseases like
advanced lifesaving and breakthrough therapies. Report. The Chairman of the Board and CEO, the Disclosure
TB and supporting frontline health workers. Also, at WHA 2022,
Committee and the Disclosure Sub-Committee6 reviewed the
Johnson & Johnson announced our new Global Surgery Initiative
Report outline and metrics, and the Disclosure Committee reviewed
and joined discussions on the importance of investing in sustainable
the full Report. Our entire Executive Committee reviewed and
Dirk de Smaele surgical systems to advance equitable access to care.
approved the 2022 Health for Humanity Report, and it was shared
Global Head and Vice President,
with the Regulatory Compliance & Sustainability Committee of the
Therapeutics Development & Supply, Janssen
Board of Directors and the full Board prior to publication.
To learn more about the importance of IP in pharmaceutical
innovation:
6 The Disclosure Sub-Committee comprises the Corporate Secretary and leaders from the Controllers’ office and Treasury and Investor Relations departments. The Disclosure Committee comprises the Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel, 10
Corporate Secretary, Head of Litigation plus leaders from the Controllers’ office and Investor Relations and Global Audit & Assurance departments.Health for Humanity 2025 Goals
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Our ambitious set of Health for Humanity 2025 Goals align to our ESG focus areas and foundation of
Goal Key Performance Indicator Target 2022 Status
accountability and innovation, and is how we hold ourselves publicly accountable in creating a more
sustainable society. We measure and track performance against our Goals, with progress assured by Our employees
a third party. Through our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals, we support 11 of the 17 UN SDGs. Women in
% of women in management positions. 50%
Management
Scorecard At-A-Glance
Ethnic/Racial
% of ethnic/racial diversity in management positions
+ Exceeded: Exceeded target → Some progress: Progressing more slowly than expected Diversity in 35%
in the U.S.
✓ Achieved: Met target —plans are in place to meet target by 2025 or 2030 Management
↗ On track: Expected to meet target by 2025 or 2030 ✕ Off track: Not progressing as expected—currently at
risk of not meeting target by 2025 or 2030 Black/African 50%
% of Black and African American employees
Americans in growth
in management positions in the U.S.
Goal Key Performance Indicator Target 2022 Status Management from 2020
Health for Humanity 2025 Goals
Global health equity 80% of
Healthiest % of Johnson & Johnson leaders and their managers leaders
% of identified assets from Johnson & Johnson Global Workforce Score achieving ≥80% annual Healthiest Workforce Score. and their
Global Access
Public Health and Janssen Infectious Diseases & Vaccines 100% managers
Plans
R&D pipeline with global access plans in place by 2025.
# of girls who have participated in virtual or in-person
Women in
Access to HIV Two activities led by employees in partnership with 2,000,000
LAI Access Program in place in two RLS countries. STEM²D
Treatment countries nonprofit partners.
Access to # of cumulative patients receiving access to bedaquiline Environmental health
Tuberculosis (TB) molecule (branded and generic) globally from 2021 700,000
Treatment through to end of 2025. Renewable % renewable electricity globally. 100%
Electricity
Stringent regulatory authority approval of a new TB drug/
New TB
Developing regimen that reduces treatment length and is at least as
drug/ Carbon % absolute reduction in greenhouse gas
TB Treatment effective and safe as the current recommended treatment
regimen Neutrality for (GHG) emissions – Scope 1 + 2 + carbon 100%
by 2030.
Our Operations credits vs. 2016 baseline.
Access to Complete a clinical study to demonstrate the health, Complete
Schizophrenia economic and social value of using paliperidone palmitate clinical Scope 3 Emissions % absolute reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG)
20%
Treatment LAI to treat schizophrenia in Rwanda by 2024. study Reductions emissions – Scope 3 (upstream) vs. 2016 baseline.
Support Frontline # of nurses, midwives and community health workers 1,000,000 Accountability & innovation
Health Workers reached globally.
Supplier
R Oe bd su tec te r iB cu Fr id se tun l aof # or o pf r fi odst uu cla t dre op na ai tr e s du )r .geries (based on surgeries reported 10,000 S Pu ros gta ri an mability All suppliers included in one of the three Tiers. A sull p pliers
P V Cr i are pav l ae V bn a it li c iv tc ie ei n se C R deere maa d ot ine n e sp tsl rsa a y f to eb r do P o aak cn ci dn eec lel mu rad ic tin e P dg r eD pp ro oac r ceu edm sn se e fn s ot s re bd ema O s eer rg d ga eon nniz c ta yht ei uo sn ea l C plr ae ya bt oe o k G D Inil cvo leb ura ss il i o tS y nu ap np dli er S enp te en rd p rw isi eth a T ndie Tr 1 ie s rm 2a sl ul a pn pd li ed ri v se pr es ne d s .uppliers, social $4.5 billion
licensure submission of our COVID-19 vaccine.
Partnerships
Vaccination Adoption of endorsed platform by at least two countries Two for Good # of supplier partnerships. 10
Monitoring
by 2025. countries
Platform
See our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals Scorecard for full results.
Healthcare Three best-practice healthcare for women insights
Three
for Women published.
11About This Report GRI 2-2, 2-3, 2-4, 2-5
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Johnson & Johnson’s 2022 Health for Humanity Report details our ESG progress and performance and
should be reviewed in conjunction with disclosures on the ESG Policies & Positions page.
Data in this annual Report cover the period between January 1, • Norges Bank Investment Management and Basel Institute on • Employee Retention and Turnover
2022, and December 31, 2022, unless otherwise indicated, and Governance’s “Measuring effectiveness of anti-corruption
• Employee Engagement (Our Credo Survey Results) (select metrics)
was published in June 2023. Reporting on other matters specific programmes” reporting framework, adding disclosures against
to financial performance of the Company and its subsidiaries can this set of 17 indicators; and • Employee Safety
be found in our 2022 Annual Report. • UN Global Compact (UNGC); see our annual Communication • Ethics and Compliance (Inquiries and Complaints as Recorded
with Our Credo Integrity Line by Category)
on Progress.
This Report covers Johnson & Johnson’s worldwide operations
across our three business segments: Pharmaceutical, MedTech • Ethics and Compliance (Compliance-Related Allegations
Materiality approach:8 The content in this Report is guided by
About This Report Investigated Through Triage Committee)
and Consumer Health.7 For select metrics, we report segment-
our PTA, which helps us identify and prioritize the ESG topics that
level data. Contract manufacturers are excluded from the scope of matter most to our stakeholders and to our Company. Please see • Product Quality Indicators
this Report, unless otherwise noted. References in this Report to
our Priority Topics Assessment for details of our latest update and • Tax Contributions
“Johnson & Johnson,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” all refer
Priority Topics.
to Johnson & Johnson and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless Our Global Audit & Assurance organization reviewed select
otherwise stated or indicated by context. All monetary references Independent review and assurance: ERM Certification and data for accuracy, completeness and validity. The financial data
to dollars ($) refer to U.S. Dollars (USD). Verification Services (ERM CVS) conducted an independent review and general information about the business in this Report were
and assurance of the following information and data in the Report: previously audited for disclosure in our 2022 Annual Report.
This Report also covers some activities of the Johnson & Johnson
Foundation, a registered charity and a company limited by • Progress against our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals and Acquisitions: EH&S data of recently acquired companies,
guarantee. The Foundation is a separate legal entity from the associated data presented in the Health for Humanity 2025 Goals except for employee road safety data and site ISO and OHSAS
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies and is funded solely by Scorecard (see ERM CVS’s Health for Humanity 2025 Goals certification data, are included in the Report two years after
the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, The Foundation Assurance); and acquisition, unless otherwise noted. This approach allows the
operates worldwide as Johnson & Johnson Foundation United • Select 2022 global GHG emissions inventory, the percentage new acquisitions to adjust their EH&S management and reporting
systems to Johnson & Johnson standards.
States (founded 1953) and Johnson & Johnson Foundation Scotland of electricity use generated by renewable energy sources, NOx
(founded 2007). More details on Foundation activities can be found and SOx emissions (from combustion sources) and select water • Road safety data are integrated the first year after acquisition,
in the Johnson & Johnson Foundation United States 2022 Annual management data (see GHG & Air Emissions, Electricity and where available, and two years after acquisition at the latest.
Report and the Johnson & Johnson Foundation Scotland 2022 Water Data Assurance). Our Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions are
• ISO and OHSAS certification data are integrated three years
Directors’ Report. reported using the WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol: A Corporate
after acquisition.
Accounting and Reporting Standard (2004, as updated
The Report has been prepared in accordance with the Global
January 2015). Abiomed, which was acquired in late December 2022, is reflected
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards (see ESG Disclosure Index:
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) performed limited assurance only in the financial data included in this Health for Humanity Report.
GRI Content Index). We also disclose our performance against
on certain data in the following categories (see PwC’s Report of Due to the timing of the acquisition and the nature of our Human
additional ESG standards and frameworks (see ESG Disclosure
Resources Information System, no other Abiomed data are included
Independent Accountants and Management’s Assertion):
Index), including:
in this 2022 Health for Humanity Report. See the Johnson & Johnson
• Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) • Our Giving 2022 Annual Report for more information on Abiomed.
relevant Standards: HC-BP, HC-MS, CG-HP; • Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (select metrics)
The dates and details of recent acquisitions can be found in
• Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures • Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S Compliance Note 18 (Acquisitions and Divestitures) on page 82 of our
(TCFD), building on our responses to the CDP climate and Certifications) 2022 Annual Report.
change questionnaire;
7 Johnson & Johnson’s Consumer Health segment, now Kenvue, operated as part of Johnson & Johnson for all of 2022. 12
8 Materiality, as used in this Report, and our PTA process are different than the definitions used in the context of filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.2022 Health for
Divestitures: Except for injury statistics and violations or Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements: from the separation; the New Consumer Health Company’s
Humanity Report
fines, EH&S data of divested companies are excluded in the This Report contains “forward-looking statements” as defined in ability to succeed as a standalone publicly traded company;
reporting year. the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, and risks related to the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 global
among other things: future operating and financial performance, pandemic, including continued supply chain disruptions and other
In November 2021, the Company announced its intention to product development, market position, business strategy and impacts to the business. A further list and descriptions of these
separate the Company’s Consumer Health business into a new, the anticipated separation of the Company’s Consumer Health risks, uncertainties and other factors can be found in Johnson &
publicly traded company. In September 2022, Kenvue was business. The reader is cautioned not to rely on these forward- Johnson’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
announced as the name for the planned New Consumer Health looking statements. These statements are based on current January 1, 2023, including in the sections captioned “Cautionary
Company. Kenvue was part of Johnson & Johnson for all of 2022 expectations of future events. If underlying assumptions prove Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and “Item 1A.
(the reporting period for this 2022 Health for Humanity Report). inaccurate or known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, Risk Factors,” and in Johnson & Johnson’s subsequent Quarterly
Kenvue completed an initial public offering of 198,734,444 shares actual results could vary materially from the expectations and Reports on Form 10-Q and other filings with the Securities and
of its common stock on May 8, 2023. As of the closing of the initial projections of Johnson & Johnson. Risks and uncertainties include, Exchange Commission. Copies of these filings are available online
public offering, the Company owns approximately 89.6% of the but are not limited to: economic factors, such as interest rate at www.sec.gov, www.jnj.com or on request from Johnson &
total outstanding shares of Kenvue common stock. The Company and currency exchange rate fluctuations; competition, including Johnson. Any forward-looking statement made in this Report
About This Report
remains on track to complete the separation in 2023, subject to technological advances, new products and patents attained speaks only as of the date of this report. Johnson & Johnson does
market conditions. by competitors; challenges inherent in new product research not undertake to update any forward-looking statement as a result
and development, including uncertainty of clinical success and of new information or future events or developments.
In future reporting years, starting with the 2023 Health for
obtaining regulatory approvals; uncertainty of commercial success
Humanity Report, Kenvue data will not be included nor restated. Third-party trademarks used herein are trademarks of their
for new and existing products; challenges to patents; the impact
respective owners.
Restatements: We use a 5% change threshold to apply to of patent expirations; the ability of the Company to successfully
significant changes in data or information that is restated, unless execute strategic plans; the impact of business combinations
otherwise noted. There are several potential reasons that may lead and divestitures; manufacturing difficulties or delays, internally
to a restatement of either prior periods or baseline data (e.g., a or within the supply chain; product efficacy or safety concerns
significant change in newly published measures, new acquisitions resulting in product recalls or regulatory action; significant adverse
or divestitures, data errors or improvements in data collection litigation or government action, including related to product liability
methodology over time). Depending on circumstances, each is claims; changes to applicable laws and regulations, including tax
evaluated using this threshold, and appropriate disclosures are laws, supply chain due diligence, regulation of greenhouse gas
included in the Report. Data that were not disclosed in prior emission and related reporting; and global healthcare reforms;
years are noted as “not reported” in relevant tables throughout trends toward healthcare cost containment; changes in behavior
the Report. and spending patterns of purchasers of healthcare products and
services; financial instability of international economies and legal
Contact us: We welcome your queries and feedback on this systems and sovereign risk; increased scrutiny of the healthcare
Report. Please contact the Johnson & Johnson Enterprise industry by government agencies; the Company’s ability to satisfy
ESG Program Office at: WW-Corporate-Governance@its.jnj.com. the necessary conditions to consummate the separation of the
Company’s Consumer Health business on a timely basis or at all;
Please visit the Reporting Hub for our archive of annual the Company’s ability to successfully separate the Company’s
Health for Humanity Reports. Consumer Health business and realize the anticipated benefits
132022 Health for
Humanity Report Global Health Equity
1144
Healthcare workers from the Bomu Hospital in Kenya teach members of the Maasai community about obstetric fistula. In 2022, the Johnson & Johnson
Foundation continued to support healthcare workers through the Fistula Foundation. Photo Credit: Bomu Hospital.Access GRI 203-2, J&J22-1, SASB HC-BP-240a.1, SASB HC-BP-240a.2
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Across Johnson & Johnson, we continue to build on our legacy of more than 135 years of blending
innovation, scientific excellence and caring for people to tackle some of today’s toughest health
Johnson & Johnson’s Current and Cumulative
challenges and help deliver improved health for all, everywhere.
Accomplishments Recognized by the 2022
ATMI Include:
At the core of our mission is a commitment to advance global In all that we do, we seek to enhance access to our innovative 2nd largest R&D >586,000 courses
Access health equity. For that to become a reality, people need to have medicines, vaccines and medical technologies everywhere, Priority Pipeline of our medicine SIRTURO
access to affordable lifesaving and life-enhancing treatments in especially for populations in resource-limited settings. We share with 64 projects addressing (bedaquiline) to treat
every corner of the world. This need is even more acute due to the our progress in making our medicines and technologies available to diseases such as HIV, TB multidrug-resistant TB
COVID-19 pandemic, which has severely disrupted essential health help combat specific diseases such as HIV, TB, Ebola and certain and dengue and the 3rd delivered since 2014
largest overall R&D pipeline
services, shortened life expectancy and exacerbated inequities in NTDs in the Pandemics & Epidemics section of this Report.
264,000 people
in scope for ATMI with
access to basic health services.9
101 projects vaccinated with our
Ebola vaccine regimen
Two billion people worldwide are unable to access essential Taking a lead in access to medicine 100% of access
medicines and healthcare services.10 plans in place Digital Public
Our progress in advancing access and innovating novel medicines Good designation
for eligible late-stage
Access to medicine is central to our global health equity strategy was recognized by the Access to Medicine Foundation in its projects—40 projects achieved for VXNAID,
and is embedded in our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals across 2022 Access to Medicine Index (ATMI) in which Johnson & in total our vaccination
several explicit commitments. Our progress against these Johnson ranked second, rising from third in 2021. monitoring platform
3 Centers for Global
commitments is described in this Report and summarized in our
10 initiatives
Health Discovery
Health for Humanity 2025 Goals Scorecard.
addressing health systems
to support research to
strengthening and R&D
address critical health
More than 180 million patients treated globally with capacity building were
challenges, including TB,
a Janssen medicine in 2022 noted as meeting all Good
Our position among the top three companies AMR and dengue
Practice Standards
worldwide on the ATMI for a sixth consecutive year
Note: Patients treated represents the estimated number of people
Phase 1
reflects our decades of commitment to enhancing 9 initiatives
globally who were treated with a Janssen medicine in 2022,
clinical study completed
including patients reached through our VERMOX (mebendazole) access to our medicines and strengthening healthcare that evaluated a dengue- addressing supply chain
donation program. This total excludes people vaccinated with systems. It is also a testament to our colleagues and specific antiviral treatment and manufacturing
our Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine, which is reported partners around the world who endeavor every day and prophylactic use capacity building were
to enable millions of people in almost 100 lower- and noted as meeting all Good
separately. We estimated the number of patients treated by
middle-income countries to benefit from our innovative 2.2 billion doses Practice Standards
converting quantities of Janssen medicines into courses of therapy
medicines and technologies. of our medicine VERMOX
or total patient days of therapy per year and then converting those (mebendazole) to treat $100 million
into numbers of people based on average utilization per patient.
children infected with invested to help
intestinal worms donated establish the $1 billion
Patients taking multiple Janssen products may be counted as Jennifer Taubert since 2006 AMR Action Fund
multiple patients in the total. Methodologies may vary by product Executive Vice President, Worldwide Chairman,
type given the nature of the product and available data. Our Pharmaceuticals, Johnson & Johnson
estimated number of patients treated may be revised over time as we
gain new information on patient usage or experience restatements in
underlying data sources or changes in product portfolios.
9 United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Sustainable Development, “Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages,” https://sdgs.un.org/goals/goal3, accessed February 2023. 10 Big Pharma, Access to 15
Medicine Foundation, “R&D-based pharma companies,” https://accesstomedicinefoundation.org/sectors-and-research/big-pharma, accessed February 2023.2022 Health for
Making progress by design: We apply our Janssen Access and relating to our pricing of medicines, our R&D investments and The HEALTHEVOICES community reaches a vast digital
Humanity Report
Pricing Principles across our entire pharmaceutical portfolio, patient support programs. Notable details include: network of more than 800 advocates across nearly 100 health
planning for access early in the research phase. We work conditions with a collective reach of 17 million patients,
• $33.9 billion paid in rebates, discounts and fees*
systematically for each asset in development to thoroughly caregivers and healthcare professionals.
understand the disease characteristics, patient burden of disease • (3.5%) average net price decline of Janssen medicines,
and product characteristics. In our access planning, we consider declining for the sixth year in a row.*
health system characteristics, access and affordability, applying Advocating for inclusive access
a variety of approaches, including value-based pricing, equity- As a signatory to the Business for Social Responsibility
based tiered pricing and other access initiatives tailored to the (BSR) Guiding Principles on Access to Healthcare, we The HEALTHEVOICES Diversity, Equity, Accessibility & Inclusion
Access
disease and product, as we work with other stakeholders to enable engage broadly across our industry to improve access for (DEAI) Task Force shapes health-equity-focused programming
patient access to medicines across a wide variety of health system patients around the world. In 2022, we collaborated as a for patient advocates and Johnson & Johnson audiences,
characteristics and country ability and willingness to pay. member of BSR’s working group to develop the Access to supported by close to 30,000 followers on social media. In
Healthcare Ladder. 2022, HEALTHEVOICES, with the support of the DEAI Task
Janssen, along with our Global Public Health organization, deploys Force, published an Instagram Live series on transgender
a lab-to-last-mile approach to fight diseases such as HIV, TB and Access to treatment in the last mile: As part of Johnson & health, advocacy and allyship; generated educational social
Ebola, driving targeted innovation and initiatives to overcome Johnson’s commitment to advancing equitable access to media campaigns around 12 awareness events throughout the
barriers to deliver access to our medicines, strengthen health medicines, we funded an innovative pilot study by the Infectious year, including Juneteenth, Pride and Hispanic Heritage Month;
systems and support frontline health workers. Diseases Institute in Uganda to assess the impact of medical issued public statements in support of the AAPI and LGBTQIA+
drones in increasing access and improving community disease communities following violence against them in the U.S.; and
management. The pilot study used a small, unmanned aircraft to participated in discussions on health equity with Johnson &
Medicine prequalification by the World Health deliver HIV treatments to the people of the Kalangala islands. As Johnson leaders. Ongoing DEAI Task Force activities such as these
Organization (WHO) is designed to ensure that a result of this pilot project, researchers were able to quantify the add vital momentum to driving equitable change in healthcare
medicines supplied by procurement agencies meet effectiveness of medical drones’ HIV drug delivery, which will help and sustaining trust between patient communities and Johnson &
acceptable standards of quality, safety and efficacy. inform future efforts to scale drone technology to solve other last Johnson teams, resulting in a stronger patient voice across our broad
mile delivery challenges in Uganda and elsewhere. range of healthcare interventions.
Eight Johnson & Johnson products have received
prequalified listed status.11
Supporting the patient advocacy community
Our 2022 HEALTHEVOICES leadership conference convened
6 2
nearly 100 leading online patient advocates for three days of There are few places in my life where I experience the
Johnson & Johnson Johnson & Johnson learning, sharing and debating on topics such as the impacts diversity of backgrounds that I find at HEALTHEVOICES.
products (addressing products (our Ebola of culture on health, bridging change in the healthcare space It’s a great reminder that not everyone with a chronic
HIV and intestinal vaccine regimen)12 and culturally inclusive marketing. This much-awaited event health issue comes from the same ethnic background,
worms) are on the WHO are on the WHO was the first in-person conference since before the COVID-19 region of the country, or socio-economic situation.
List of Prequalified List of Prequalified
pandemic and the eighth annual HEALTHEVOICES conference
Each health condition comes with unique symptoms,
Medicinal Products. Vaccines.
since its inception in 2015. HEALTHEVOICES is designed by and
challenges, and treatments. When everyone chooses to
for online patient advocates, offering a safe space to deliver
embrace the diversity that we inevitably have, we create
authentic content on the most pressing issues impacting patients.
an accepting environment to tackle difficult issues.
Advancing access in the U.S.: Equitable access strategies are Approximately 50 Johnson & Johnson leaders attended the
important not only in LMICs, but also in higher-income countries 2022 conference, demonstrating our keen commitment to
that are home to vulnerable and under-resourced populations as understanding patient needs and empowering patient advocates
well. With a focus on access in the U.S., in 2023, we published our to influence how we communicate with and to patients to Howard Chang
seventh annual Janssen U.S. Transparency Report, sharing updates improve patient experience. Psoriasis Advocate & former HEALTHEVOICES
Conference Advisor
11 WHO, “Medicines/Finished Pharmaceutical Products,” https://extranet.who.int/pqweb/content/prequalified-lists/medicines. 12 A two-dose Ebola vaccine regimen comprising ZABDENO (Ad26.ZEBOV) and Bavarian Nordic’s 16
MVABEA (MVA-BN-Filo). * Figures according to Janssen internal financial accounting.Advancing Public Health GRI 203-1, 203-2, J&J22-2
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
For decades, Johnson & Johnson has remained steadfast in our commitment to leadership in public
health and health equity. Our strategy reflects a long-held belief that creating societal value goes
hand in hand with generating long-term business value.
We champion health equity through initiatives that maximize
value for all those we reach through our business in areas where
Advancing Public Health we can have the greatest impact. Alongside increasing access to
medicines, our ambitions to advance public health include: We believe strongly in the power of strategic
partnerships, and we are excited to collaborate to
• Collaborations to address cross-cutting healthcare issues
advance health equity, enhance patient care and
• Advancing global surgery capabilities
provide even greater support to our nurses.
• Developing new solutions to enhance access to quality
mental healthcare
• Delivering innovation for better eye health
Sam Hazen
• Promoting initiatives to eliminate health inequities for Chief Executive Officer, HCA Healthcare
people of color
• Supporting frontline health workers Also, in 2022, we joined several private sector organizations
in pledging funding and support to end critical diseases and
• Helping communities in need
strengthen health systems as part of the Global Fund’s Seventh
Replenishment Conference. Global Fund is an international
Our GPH organization has a mission to develop relevant innovations
organization established to defeat HIV, TB and malaria and ensure
that save lives, cure patients and prevent disease and make them
a healthier, safer, more equitable future for all. Our new Global
available, affordable and accessible for the world’s most
Fund contribution was in the form of a partnership with the Skoll
vulnerable and under-resourced populations. Our Health
Foundation to jointly provide $25 million as an anchor investment
for Humanity 2025 Goals underpin this mission and empower us
in a fund to accelerate the professionalization of community health
to target our efforts to deliver improved health outcomes.
workers. See also section: Frontline Healthcare & Communities.
Johnson & Johnson convenes collaborations across multiple
dimensions to advance public health, whether this is to address
global diseases that have a disproportionate impact or to
strengthen healthcare systems. For example, in 2022, we joined
with HCA Healthcare, a leading healthcare provider in the U.S.,
to address key industry issues such as improving health equity,
enhancing nursing support and improving patient outcomes.
Specifically, this collaboration encompasses the development
of a program for early stage lung cancer detection for the
Black community, initiatives to improve cardiovascular health
and education, training and other resources to elevate and
The family member of a patient of Caraes
support nurses. Ndera Neuropsychiatric Hospital stands
outside her home in Kigali, Rwanda.
Credit: Will Swanson for Devex.
17Global Surgery
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
At Johnson & Johnson, through our J&J MedTech business segment, we are helping transform example, we trialed the new surgical instruments at the Freedom
from Fistula Hospital in Sierra Leone in collaboration with Dr.
the future of medical intervention by tackling some of the world’s most pressing healthcare
Rachel Pope, Associate Professor, Urology Institute, University
challenges across several surgical fields.
Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center.
In 2022, we progressed to further trials of these instruments in
Advances in surgical technology have transformed medical care capabilities together with our collaborators and aim to address Kenya, where more than 1,000 new cases of obstetric fistula are
for most high-income countries, yet quality surgical care remains healthcare inequities, expand patient access, improve outcomes recorded each year.15 As part of our ongoing program, we seek
feedback from surgeons to inform future innovation and help scale
largely out of reach for people living in low-income countries. As and reduce health system costs. Our commitment to changing
Global Surgery many as 5 billion people13 do not have access to quality surgical the trajectory of surgical care is encompassed in our Health for surgical capacity countrywide to reach even more women suffering
care—closing this gap is critically important to advance global Humanity 2025 Goals, and we have made strong progress so far. from obstetric fistula.
health equity.
Accelerating access to surgery: At the 75th World Health Johnson & Johnson was one of the first companies to partner
Of the 313 million surgical procedures undertaken worldwide Assembly in May 2022, we launched our Global Surgery Initiative with Dr. Catherine Hamlin at the Addis Ababa Fistula Hospital
each year, only 6% occur in the poorest countries, where more with the goal of advancing the entire continuum of surgical in Ethiopia, beginning in the 1980s, with the donation of
than a third of the world’s population lives.14 care—from prevention to treatment to rehabilitation—across sutures for fistula surgeries.
two significant areas of unmet need, obstetric fistula and long
bone fracture. We announced the beginning of pilot programs in
these two areas in Kenya and Malawi, working with government,
academic and NGOs to strengthen surgical systems. Combining
J&J MedTech’s Global Core Capabilities
the strengths and expertise of Johnson & Johnson with global and
local collaborators, we aim to accelerate access by streamlining
Ethicon DePuy Synthes
supply chains, reducing costs and better equipping surgeons and
surgical technologies, orthopaedics, including
health systems to meet the needs of the patients and communities
including advanced joint reconstruction,
digital solutions trauma, spine, sports they serve.
and robotics and robotics
8,800 obstetric fistula repair surgeries supported through
Interventional Johnson & Johnson Johnson & Johnson’s suture donation program over two years
Solutions & Vision (2021 – 2022)
Specialty Surgery specialist eye healthcare,
neurovascular care; heart including the most Improving surgical instruments for obstetric fistula repair
rhythm disorders; ear, nose advanced intraocular surgery: Obstetric fistula is a serious childbirth complication that
and throat treatment; and and contact lenses is preventable with improved practices and treatable with access
breast reconstruction
to surgical care. Johnson & Johnson helps to improve care by
developing and providing access to improved surgical instruments:
fistula scissors, bladder sounds and suture/catheter organizers.
These improvements aim to provide high-quality instrumentation
to increase patient comfort, maximize surgeon visibility and
Johnson & Johnson is committed to elevating the standard of
improve safety for both the patient and the surgeon. We work
care in surgery by bringing insights, scale and new technologies
with expert collaborators to help train surgeons and frontline health Elizabeth, a 21-year-old woman from Kenya, received fistula surgery at the Gynocare
to meet the needs of more people in communities with limited
Women’s and Fistula Hospital, the flagship facility of the Fistula Foundation Treatment
workers on the effective use of these instruments. In 2021, for
surgical capacity around the world. We deploy our global surgery Network in Keyna that Johnson & Johnson supports with donated surgical products.
Photo Credit: Roshni Lodhia.
13 The Lancet, “Global Surgery 2030: evidence and solutions for achieving health, welfare, and economic development,” www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(15)60160-X/fulltext, accessed February 2023. 14 Ibid. 15 UNFPA 18
Kenya, “Fistula camp tackles COVID-19 related backlog of cases to restore dignity to women,” https://kenya.unfpa.org/en/news/fistula-camp-tackles-covid-19-related-backlog-cases-restore-dignity-women, accessed February 2023.2022 Health for
Collaborations to reduce the burden of obstetric fistula: Along Improving access to care for long bone fracture: Left untreated,
Humanity Report
with the Johnson & Johnson Foundation, we again supported long bone fractures, a crack or break in the tibia or another long
obstetric fistula procedures and donated surgical products to the bone, can result in long-term disability. Johnson & Johnson is
Fistula Foundation Treatment Network. Together with Direct Relief, working in Malawi to help train surgeons with novel tools and
we delivered our sutures and new instruments to nine hospitals techniques and strengthen supply chains to improve sustainable
in the Kenya Fistula Treatment Network. Working with these access to surgical trauma care for people in need. In 2022,
improved instruments and supported by training, surgeons were supported by the Johnson & Johnson Foundation, we launched
able to perform safe obstetric fistula repairs for more than 1,300 our Long Bone Fracture Pilot Program in Malawi, introducing
women in Kenya in 2022. novel devices, strengthening supply chains, training district-level
providers to complete procedures and elevating operating room
Between 50,000 and 100,000 women each year suffer
processes for a better patient and care team experience. Our aim
Global Surgery
from obstetric fistula.16
is to scale this initiative to other LMICs, building on our experience
in Malawi.
In 2022, we also continued to support ongoing obstetric fistula
education for surgeons through our nearly 30-year collaboration
with Mercy Ships, the largest non-governmental fleet of hospital Delivery of products, implants and instrument sets at Queen Elizabeth Hospital
in Malawi. Photo by Precious Kamange.
ships in the world. Our support has helped hundreds of surgeons
and operating room specialists receive advanced training by
collaborating to design essential skills training and provide
hygiene kits and surgical products.
Health for Humanity 2025 Goals
Progress in Reducing Burden
Participants during the Orthopaedic Clinical Officers training in Dowa
of Obstetric Fistula conduct a practice exercise on a colleague. Photo by Katrin Dörner.
• In 2022, supported delivery of 5,600 obstetric fistula
repair surgeries for a cumulative total of 8,800 since the
beginning of 2021.
• New surgical instruments piloted in Sierra Leone in
2021 and expanded to Kenya in 2022 to increase patient
comfort, maximize surgeon visibility and improve safety
for the patient and surgeon.
• Continued support of healthcare workers through
Fistula Foundation.
16 WHO, “Obstetric fistula,” https://www.who.int/news-room/facts-in-pictures/detail/10-facts-on-obstetric-fistula, accessed February 2023. 19Mental Healthcare
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Mental illness continues to be one of the greatest unmet needs in healthcare. This was intensified by
the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, protracted conflict and growing social inequities around the
world threaten to further exacerbate mental healthcare hardships while challenging the availability
of resources to address them.
Nowhere is this truer than for vulnerable communities in several Improving access to quality mental healthcare in Rwanda: Our
parts of the world; more than 80% of all people with mental five-year collaboration with the Rwanda Ministry of Health, starting
disorders live in LMICs,17 and many receive no care at all due to a in 2017, achieved major progress in creating a framework for
Mental Healthcare lack of treatment options, few trained mental health workers and quality, accessible mental healthcare in the country, including:
associated stigma, among other reasons.
• supporting the training of more than 50,000 community health
workers and general practitioner nurses on the signs and
Levels of public expenditure on mental health are low (global
symptoms of mental illness, including through a unique,
median of 2.1% of government health expenditure) and
phone-based training program;
particularly meager in LMICs.18
• conducting the first National Mental Health Survey in Rwanda,
Over the last half century, we have developed several innovative one of the most extensive nationwide surveys completed in
treatments for conditions impacting the brain and central nervous sub-Saharan Africa to date, which was published in 2022 in
system. Building on this legacy, we have expanded access to the open access, peer-reviewed BMC Public Health Journal; and
mental healthcare through innovation, research and programs that • making available second-generation antipsychotics, including
empower frontline health workers to better manage mental illness. oral risperidone and paliperidone palmitate long-acting
injectables (PPLAI) (through our clinical study).
Evaluating treatment in real-world healthcare settings: In
Health for Humanity 2025 Goals
2022, we continued our Clinical Study to Assess the Treatment of
The CASPAR study team, representing
Schizophrenia With Paliperidone Palmitate in Rwandan Healthcare Johnson & Johnson, tours the
laboratories at the University Teaching
Settings (CASPAR), designed to assess the impact of PPLAI in
Hospital of Butare, one of the
patients with schizophrenia in real-world healthcare settings. By participating sites in the CASPAR Study.
Photo by Carla Decotelli-Mendes.
the end of 2022, 100% of patients were screened and nearly 50%
of patients moved to the treatment phase. The study also includes
Progress in Access to clinical research training for the local principal investigators at the
Schizophrenia Treatment five study sites in Rwanda, as well as site visits from the Johnson
• The CASPAR study assessing the treatment of schizophrenia & Johnson research team. CASPAR represents an important step
with paliperidone palmitate LAI in Rwandan healthcare forward in generating evidence that could inform adoption of
settings achieved 100% patients screened and nearly 50% PPLAI as a treatment option for schizophrenia.
of patients moved to treatment phase.
• Clinical research trainings for site investigators in
Rwanda ongoing.
17 WHO, “World mental health report: Transforming mental health for all,” https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/9789240049338, accessed February 2023. 18 WHO, “Mental Health Atlas 2020,” https://www.who.int/publications/i/ 20
item/9789240036703, accessed February 2023.Vision
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
According to the World Health Organization, sight is the most dominant of the five senses and plays Advancing eye health digital innovation in Asia Pacific: In
2022, Johnson & Johnson Vision signed a Memorandum of
a crucial role in every facet of our lives. But unmet needs in eye health continue to affect people the
Understanding with the Agency for Science, Technology and
world over and especially the most vulnerable and under-resourced populations.
Research (A*STAR) to jointly establish an Eye Health Digital
Innovation Consortium in Singapore. Hosted at A*STAR’s Institute
of High Performance Computing, the consortium focuses on
Worldwide, more than 2.2 billion people are visually impaired, Improving vision in a digital world: With adults spending 35% advancing eye health research in the Asia Pacific region. A joint
and more than 1 billion are forced to live with preventable or more time on digital devices in a post-pandemic world—13 or investment of SGD 15 million from both organizations will be
treatable conditions because they cannot get the care they need.19 more hours per day according to estimates20—the strain on eye channeled into the consortium over the course of three years.
At Johnson & Johnson Vision, part of J&J MedTech, we have a health is noticeable. With eyes locked on a screen for long periods, As the first of its kind in the region, the consortium will initially
bold ambition to change the trajectory of eye health worldwide. people blink less; this has a destabilizing effect on the tear film, focus on the following:
We deliver innovation that enables eye care professionals to causing dryness and discomfort. Following feedback from eye care
Vision • improving eye healthcare delivery from eye care professionals
create better outcomes for patients throughout their lives, and we professionals and patients we’ve worked to help meet the needs of
to patients in Singapore and beyond;
collaborate to expand access to quality eye care in communities digitally intensive lifestyles through increased education and the
with the greatest need. launch of a new contact lens ACUVUE OASYS MAX 1-DAY to help • optimizing collaboration between the private and public sector
to enhance eye healthcare delivery; and
reduce light scatter and block UVA and UVB rays.
• developing new technological processes to support enterprises
Cataracts are one of the leading causes of preventable blindness
that are directly involved in primary eye healthcare delivery.
worldwide, impacting almost 100 million people globally.21
The prevalence of distance vision impairment in low- and
Very few things are as important as the ability to
Seeing better in low-light conditions: Presbyopia, in simple middle-income regions is estimated to be four times higher
see the world around us, and we know that healthy
terms, is an age-related condition that reduces the ability of near than in high-income regions.24
sight is a lifelong journey. That’s why, at Johnson &
vision, projected to affect 2.1 billion people globally in 2030.22
Johnson Vision, we are working to meet patient needs
To provide relief for the many people whose quality of life is
throughout their lives and in the areas where we can
reduced by presbyopia, Johnson & Johnson Vision introduced our
have the greatest impact. From delivering innovation to
next-generation presbyopia-correcting intraocular lens (PC-IOL)
treat childhood myopia to leveraging our cutting-edge
TECNIS SYMFONY OPTIBLUE IOL in the U.S. and select countries
science to bring forward the best solutions in eye care There is a high prevalence of eye disorders among
in EMEA in 2022. Using this high-performance technology, eye
and surgery. What we do at every stage aims to help Singapore’s population, and this is a cause for concern.
care professionals can offer patients a full range of high-quality
support eye care professionals worldwide and enable Open innovation and public-private partnerships will
continuous vision in all lighting conditions.
millions of patients to see better. pave the way for us to leverage strengths from different
Half of the world’s population is projected to be myopic parties and develop solutions to address this complex
by 2050 with nearly one billion people expected to have healthcare challenge.
Peter Menziuso high myopia.23
Company Group Chairman,
Johnson & Johnson Vision
Professor Tan Sze Wee
Assistant Chief Executive, Enterprise, A*STAR
19 WHO, “World report on vision,” https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/9789241516570, accessed February 2023. 20 COVID-19: Screen Time spikes to more than 13 hours per day according to Eyesafe Nielsen estimates, published 3/28/20, https://
eyesafe.com/covid-19-screen-time-spike-to-over-13-hours-per-day, accessed February 2023. 21 WHO, “Blindness and vision impairment,” https://www.who.int/en/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/blindness-andvisual-impairment, accessed February 2023.
22 Grzybowski, A and Ruamviboonsuk, V, “Pharmacological Treatment in Presbyopia,” J. Clin. Med. 2022, 11(5), 1385, https://doi.org/10.3390/jcm11051385, accessed February 2023. 23 WHO, “World report on vision,” https://www.who.int/publications/i/ 21
item/9789241516570, accessed February 2023. 24 WHO, “Blindness and vision impairment,” https://www.who.int/en/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/blindness-andvisual-impairment, accessed February 2023.2022 Health for
Slowing myopia progression in children: Myopia, sometimes Prioritizing eyes in South America: Johnson & Johnson Vision
Humanity Report
called nearsightedness, is a chronic and progressive disease that led a meaningful campaign in 2022 to advance access to eye care
can lead to sight-threatening complications over time. Children for people living in remote areas of several countries, including
under 12 who are diagnosed with myopia are at a greater risk of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Mexico. We led awareness
developing high myopia in later life. Among the first in the industry campaigns using different media channels to raise awareness and
to recognize the importance of myopia management, following worked closely with nonprofits throughout the region to encourage
decades of research to develop scientifically proven solutions, people to show up for eye tests and receive any necessary treatment.
Johnson & Johnson Vision launched ACUVUE ABILITI to address
the prevalence and progression of myopia in children. ABILITI is
designed to fit seamlessly into the lifestyle of parents and children.
10,000
In 2022, we launched ABILITI 1-DAY and ABILITI OVERNIGHT
people reached
in Canada, Hong Kong and Singapore. We also received FDA
Vision approval of lens parameter expansion for ABILITI OVERNIGHT to
extend the reach for patients in the U.S. With these developments,
more patients in more parts of the world can now enjoy better
vision throughout their lifetimes. 20,000+
Bringing critical eye care to children: Sight for Kids (SFK) was eye examinations
founded in 2002 by Johnson & Johnson Vision and Lions Clubs Two students in Nairobi, Kenya are on a path to a brighter future thanks to vision
screenings by Sight for Kids. Photo by Lions Club International Foundation.
International Foundation and has administered free, volunteer-
directed vision screenings to more than 42 million children in five
countries, including India, Kenya, the Philippines, Thailand and the
2,000+
U.S. Today, as SFK celebrates 20 years of bringing critical eye care
to children in under-resourced communities, it is the largest-known
eye surgeries
program of its kind in the world. Healthy sight is critical to a child’s academic
performance, self-esteem and overall well-being.
In 2022, in the U.S., SFK expanded beyond the South Florida region
By helping their vision through Sight For Kids, we can
to a second location by teaming up with the Louisiana Lions Eye
make a meaningful impact now that will carry into the
Celebrating World Sight Day 2022: Johnson & Johnson Vision
Foundation to provide free statewide eye care to Louisiana’s youth.
future, from their studies to their career.
selected World Sight Day to share its Vision for Good 2021 Impact
A vision screening event and tours of the mobile screening unit
Review, with additional examples of how we are helping change
marked this new activity.
the trajectory of eye health while operating in an environmentally
sustainable manner.
Dr. Freddy T. Simon
Ophthalmologist, Kerala, India Learn more about social responsibility at
Johnson & Johnson Vision.
22Our Race to Health Equity GRI 203-1, 203-2
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
At the heart of Johnson & Johnson’s commitment to health equity is our desire to create a world In 2022, Johnson & Johnson awarded the winners of its Health
Equity Innovation Challenge, designed to empower communities
where the color of your skin does not determine your access to care, quality of care or health
and accelerate solutions by stimulating innovation, entrepreneurship
outcomes. Launched in 2020, Our Race to Health Equity (ORTHE) is our $100 million, enterprise-
and social impact. The Challenge called on local entrepreneurs
wide initiative focused on closing the racial health gap in the U.S. in Chicago, Detroit, Los Angeles, New Orleans, New York and
Philadelphia to deliver locally inspired, innovative approaches to
advance health equity. Engaging credible community leaders who
The Johnson & Johnson ORTHE initiative focuses on eradicating racial People of color in the U.S. face higher incidences of, and understood local health challenges, the independent selection
and social injustice as a public health threat by eliminating health death rates from, conditions such as heart disease, stroke, committee chose 14 winners from more than 180 applicants. The
inequities for people of color in the U.S. We are committed to closing cancer, diabetes and COVID-19.25 winners included community organizations that provide services,
the racial health gap by investing in culturally competent community including free healthcare to under-resourced neighborhoods;
care models that create healthy outcomes for people of color. improving birth and maternal health outcomes for Black families;
Our Race to Health Equity Community health capacity building and providing youth, educators and communities with programs
By the end of 2022, we had committed more than $52 million to designed to support mental wellness and equity. Each winner
advance ORTHE programs in the following areas: Three programs helped to expand access to affordable, community was awarded seed funding from a pool of more than $1 million,
centric care. along with mentorship from renowned entrepreneurs and public
health experts and access to the JLABS ecosystem. Following the
Community health workers in Alabama, Mississippi, North Carolina,
Community Inclusive Challenge, many of these organizations have continued to positively
South Carolina and Tennessee benefited from a health worker
Health Capacity Research and impact their communities and are actively expanding.
network collaborative grant that we contributed to establishing
Building Representative
alongside management skills training of executive directors and
Clinical Trials
Expanding access to
leaders of community-based healthcare organizations. Working Community engagement and education
affordable, community- Increasing access to
in partnership with many organizations, we aim to help build trust
centric care through clinical trials through
between under-resourced communities and health systems, backed Three innovative programs continued under the ORTHE umbrella,
investments in diverse site selection
community health and patient recruitment, by our commitment to supporting 200,000 HCPs and researchers helping people be more informed about options to prioritize
centers, community as well as incorporating by 2025. healthcare and treatment. My Health Can’t Wait is an educational
health workers equity into end-to-end effort and resource hub created by J&J MedTech to inspire people
and other care model therapy and device By the end of 2022, 307,000 U.S. HCPs and researchers to get the information they need to pursue care with confidence,
innovations. design. were provided development and support to help create especially after the experience of the COVID-19 pandemic that
more equitable healthcare systems. caused many Americans to delay healthcare treatment.
We also launched a new initiative to support climate resilience at
Community Culturally Through J&J MedTech’s Signature Equity Program, we are
community healthcare clinics in the U.S. that serve people with
Engagement Competent Care identifying communities across the U.S. where we can help deliver
limited access to care in communities most vulnerable to the impacts
and Education the most impact, forming partnerships with community-based
Increasing the racial and of climate change. Through a collaboration with Americares and
organizations and offering Johnson & Johnson resources and
Empowering patients ethnic diversity of the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health’s Center for Climate,
expertise to help meet community healthcare needs. In 2022, J&J
and end users with healthcare talent pipeline Health, and the Global Environment (Harvard Chan C-CHANGE),
tools, resources and and workforce and MedTech and Janssen helped provide free health education and
we aim to bolster operational resilience in clinics, as well as the
community-based promoting an equitable access to health screenings to thousands of community members
resilience of healthcare workers, to help inimize disruptions in
services to “own” their point of care experience at events in Atlanta; Chicago; Columbia, South Carolina; and Los
health and increase for BIPOC patients. healthcare caused by extreme weather events. The goal is to support Angeles, and the plan is to expand to other populations around the
health literacy. 100 medical clinics across the U.S. by 2025. world in 2023.
25 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Minority Health, “Profile: Black/African Americans,” https://www.minorityhealth.hhs.gov/omh/browse.aspx?lvl=3&lvlid=61, accessed February 2023. 232022 Health for
Save Legs, Change Lives is a multiyear initiative by Janssen to
Humanity Report
address the hidden threat of peripheral artery disease (PAD)-
related amputation. Black Americans with PAD have up to four
times higher risk of amputation than white Americans.26 Janssen
collaborated with leading professional associations, including the
American College of Cardiology, as well as healthcare systems
and community organizations to raise awareness of PAD-related
issues and facilitate equitable access to treatment. Through 2022,
Janssen continued to share PAD information widely, implemented
thousands of free screenings and advanced research to help
overcome PAD-related health inequities.
Johnson & Johnson Vision was the first major eye health
Additionally, in 2022, we expanded our pioneering Climate and
company to sign The 13% Promise, an initiative created by
Health Equity Fellowship, which was created with the Medical
Our Race to Health Equity nonprofit Black EyeCare Perspective to increase equity and
Society Consortium on Climate and Health and the National
representation in optometry to mirror the 13% of Black people
Medical Association to support physicians of color to become
in the U.S. population.
leaders in climate and health equity education, advocacy and
policy solutions. Our increased contribution for the second class of
Culturally competent care Fellows supported 15 physicians from across the U.S., representing
diverse specialties, advocacy experiences, cultural backgrounds
In line with our goal to promote better care for people of color by and interests in climate and health, enhancing their leadership
addressing unconscious bias in healthcare, we co-launched a cross- capabilities as medical professionals in caring for patients and for
sector partnership initiative, Unconscious Bias and Disparities in our planet.
Healthcare: A Call to Action, with a Continuing Medical Education
program at its core. The program targets HCPs in communities of
color and assists them to enact changes in their daily practice to Inclusive research and representative
improve patient care and outcomes. Additionally, we maintained clinical trials
our sponsorship of the Alliance for Inclusion in Medicine Scholarship
Program, a scholarship and mentorship commitment launched in We advance multiple initiatives to enhance the diversity of
2021 with National Medical Fellowships (NMF) and the Alliance for healthcare across several dimensions that include Johnson &
Inclusion in Medicine (AIM). Between 2021 and 2022, we welcomed Johnson R&D and outreach to community representatives and
two cohorts of underrepresented medical students—40 in total— advocates. One example is Research Includes Me, an initiative of
to the program and have committed over $2 million in scholarship Janssen that is a community-focused campaign designed to create
funding across both cohorts. With support from Johnson & Johnson, awareness and engagement within Black and Brown communities
NMF welcomed an inaugural cohort of 20 underrepresented to elevate the discussion around clinical trials. The campaign helps
medical students and selected a second cohort of second- and build trust-based relationships with communities to provide clinical
third-year medical school scholars. AIM scholars were paired with trial information and hosts an educational website to provide
a Johnson & Johnson mentor to provide guidance and insight underrepresented patients with greater access to information and
as these young scholars embark on their medical career journey. resources about clinical trial research.
Learn more about Our Race to Health Equity.
26 National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, “Facts About Peripheral Artery Disease (for P.A.D.) for African Americans,” https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/files/docs/public/heart/pad_ 24
extfactsheet_aa_508.pdf, accessed February 2023.Frontline Healthcare & Communities GRI J&J22-10, GRI 413-1
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
In line with our commitment to advancing public health, we invest extensively in raising the quality Strengthening community-based health systems: The Center
helped establish a Community Health Worker Think Tank, led by
of health and well-being in the communities in which we live and work.
South Africa’s National Department of Health, to address critical
gaps facing community health worker policy implementation
and community-level service delivery. In Nigeria, the Center
Johnson & Johnson’s Global Community Impact (GCI) organization In 2022, the Center advanced several initiatives, including: collaborated widely internally and externally to help create a
—with funding from Johnson & Johnson Foundation, the Corporation roadmap of partnership opportunities to strengthen the nursing
Supporting community health workers across Africa: A
and operating companies across the Johnson & Johnson Family of and midwifery workforce in Nigeria with an emphasis on mental
professionalized workforce of community health workers,
Companies—drives our community-giving initiatives around the health, oncology, and maternal and newborn health. Also, the
who engage daily with communities, is key to responding to
world. Aligned with our ESG strategy, and our Health for Humanity Center launched Basecamp for Health System Transformation with
disease outbreaks and making gains on longstanding global
2025 Goals, as well as driving our ORTHE initiative, GCI specifically the School of System Change, a pilot program to nurture system
health priorities, including universal health coverage. The Africa
advances initiatives at the front line of healthcare with an ambitious change practitioners to build community health system capacity
Frontline First Catalytic Fund (AFF-CF) was launched in 2022 to
public goal. across Europe and sub-Saharan Africa.
support community health workers in 10 African countries with a
Frontline Healthcare & Communities
$15 million commitment by the Johnson & Johnson Foundation Harnessing the power of data: To support frontline health workers
and a $10 million commitment by the Skoll Foundation. These in making trusted, data-driven decisions, the Center supported
Health for Humanity 2025 Goals
investments will be matched by The Global Fund to fight AIDS, TB several thousand hours of pro bono data science services in
and malaria. The AFF-CF will help accelerate progress and improve sub-Saharan Africa and leveraged data sets of millions of health
healthcare delivered at the community level, as well as ensure the encounters generated by more than 4,000 community health
women, who make up the large proportion of community health workers to improve data quality and inform best practices. The
workers, are properly paid for their work. The Fund aims to triple Center is collaborating with DataKind and community-based
the number of salaried community health workers in sub-Saharan organizations to champion data collection practices that will enable
Progress in Supporting Frontline Africa, expanding coverage to 100 million people by 2030. health systems stakeholders to make healthcare delivery decisions
Health Workers (by 2030) backed by trusted data.
• Reached more than 570,000 nurses, midwives and
Helping health workers manage stress: To support health workers
community health workers in 2022, supporting over
in managing stress, exacerbated during the COVID-19 pandemic,
1,300,000 frontline health workers in cumulative total.
The Resilience Collaborative, the Center’s global learning
Health workers are the cornerstone of care. By training,
community launched in 2021, grew to more than 600 members in
empowering and integrating community health
2022. Open-source resources, now including Spanish, Portuguese
Supporting frontline health workers workers into existing health systems, it’s possible to
and Hindi translations, are being accessed by more than 300
extend care and reduce the burden of disease for
organizations in 38 countries and assisting in raising awareness
We believe that if we solve the challenges facing frontline millions of people. Our investment in the African
about ways to implement and evaluate evidence-based programs
health workers, we will improve healthcare for everyone. The Frontline First Catalytic Fund builds on more than
for improved health worker resilience and well-being.
Johnson & Johnson Center for Health Worker Innovation (“the 125 years of supporting health workers, especially in
Center”), established in 2019, is tasked with guiding our $250 resource-limited settings.
million commitment to support frontline health workers, with a
goal of supporting one million nurses, midwives and community
health workers by 2030. Although we exceeded our one million
Lauren Moore
goal in 2022, well in advance of our plan, we continue the work
Vice President, Global Community Impact,
of the Center to provide critically needed support for community Johnson & Johnson
health workers.
252022 Health for
Supporting supply chain training for health workers in Africa: healthcare systems work: When we work together to support
Humanity Report
Johnson & Johnson provided funding to Empower School of Health nurses, we are advancing better healthcare for all. Our goal is to
to develop a free, online supply chain training curriculum that aims work with like-minded partners to attract and strengthen a thriving,
to help frontline health workers understand their role in the supply innovative and diverse nursing workforce, empowered to advance Working with the JJIV team has allowed us to improve
chain and delivery of essential medicines and treatments. Empower health equity and transform healthcare. We support and empower our thoughtfulness of how we create a business where
School of Health delivered this training with the East, Central nurses through advocacy, scholarships, clinical and leadership impact outcomes are inextricably linked … the bigger
and Southern African College of Nursing and the Ecumenical education, events that teach and hone healthcare innovation skill we are as a business, the more impact we achieve.
Pharmaceutical Network. After a successful pilot in Botswana and sets, mental health resources and more.
Kenya in 2022, the curriculum is currently being rolled out in three
Our work includes advocating for the fundamental value of
additional countries in 2023: Nigeria, Rwanda and South Africa.
the nursing profession, catalyzing a workplace culture and Farouk Meralli
Enhancing HCP education around the world: J&J MedTech environment where nurses can thrive and strengthening diversity Founder and CEO of SwipeRx
partnered with Advances in Surgery and other industry associations in nursing. We bring greater awareness to the extraordinary impact
to provide more than 1 million HCPs with online webinars across that nurses have in healthcare through key activities and programs,
a range of topics and specialties. For example, a DEI series of including TV and social media advertising, storytelling on our “See
Progress was made in 2022, with new investments and
Frontline Healthcare & Communities 12 webinars was dedicated to discussing workplace challenges You Now” podcast and through Notes on Nursing. We are working
approximately half of the $50 million fund having now been
and best practices, and a Resilient Resident Series of 14 webinars to spark interest in the profession among diverse, prospective
committed to companies across five continents. Since joining the
targeted leading surgeons in their early career. Overall, the suite of nursing students through a new series called The Future of Nursing
portfolio, these companies have reached 2.8 million patients directly
webinar series attracted more HCPs in 147 countries across more is Me.
and supported more than 61,000 HCPs.
than 70 events.
We also support events like NurseHack4Health that support
Supporting the field: Fueled by the belief in the potential of
Ethicon reignited its partnership nurse-led innovation in healthcare. Working in collaboration with
market-based solutions to address health equity issues, JJIV
with the Society of Black Academic SONSIEL and Microsoft, we launched our first Pitch-A-Thon to
provided funding to early stage health impact entrepreneurs
Surgeons by expanding the Diverse elevate and foster nurse-led ideas for redesigning a healthy work
to develop their ideas through various external partnerships
Surgeons Initiative (DSI), a program environment where the workforce can thrive. Nearly 40 nurse-led,
and programs. JJIV also provided funding for Rock Health’s
focused on equipping promising interdisciplinary health systems applied to the Pitch-A-Thon, and 10
Equitable Investments Initiative to further research and publish a
minority surgical residents for were selected as finalists. Representing the transformative power
call-to-action report for greater investment in underrepresented
fellowship attainment and faculty of nurse-led innovation, three teams were awarded $260,000 in
entrepreneurs in the U.S. Additionally, JJIV helped fund the
appointment. The DSI supported grant funding to bring their solutions to life.
development of IRIS+, an investment tool from the Global Impact
clinical and technical training and
Investing Network to assist investors to identify and support
mentorship for 14 surgical residents
and will continue into 2023 to help Wilson M. Aloubia, M.D., MSc., Accelerating health equity entrepreneurship enterprises combating racial health disparities.
and LaDonna Kearse, M.D.,
them realize their potential as future practice their laparoscopic skills
in a surgical training lab during Johnson & Johnson Impact Ventures (JJIV) is a $50 million impact 2022 was a milestone year for JJIV, with a first return on
surgical fellows and faculty leaders.
Diverse Surgeon Initiative 2.0. investment from Patients Know Best, a personal health record
fund within the Johnson & Johnson Foundation that invests in
Of DSI participants from prior cohorts,
company that is helping to give patients control of their own
healthcare companies and entrepreneurs with innovative business
87% completed subspecialty fellowships and 41% obtained faculty
medical information.
models to improve health equity and access to affordable and
positions following the next five years of their careers.
quality care for under-resourced patients around the world. Financial
returns from portfolio companies are reinvested, enabling further
Championing nurses expansion of the fund’s impact. JJIV also leverages Johnson &
Johnson’s network of experience and expertise in healthcare to
Johnson & Johnson has proudly championed the nursing provide resources, support and guidance to its portfolio companies.
profession for more than a century. With innovative mindsets,
invaluable insights and hands-on experience, nurses make
262022 Health for
Our giving Enterprise: Across Johnson & Johnson, both at the Enterprise level IHP’s approved product donations partners. By offering increased
Humanity Report
and through our operating companies in more than 60 countries of visibility and alignment, as well as a streamlined, automated
As the largest, most diversified healthcare products company, the world, we donate funds and products to regional or local causes approvals system, this innovative technology is improving the
Johnson & Johnson is an essential part of the fabric of society aligned with Our Credo, Our Purpose and specific needs in local speed of product donations across geographies.
in communities around the globe. We care deeply about the communities, including disaster relief. These donations are at the
Examples of our support for communities struck by disaster or
well-being of our communities, and we use our reach and share discretion of local Johnson & Johnson leaders and globally amount
humanitarian crises in 2022 include:
our resources with communities around the world, through to hundreds of millions of dollars each year.
collaborations and partnerships, to forge a healthier, more • War in Ukraine: We contributed more than $32 million overall to
equitable future for all. Patient Assistance: In the U.S., we support independent initiatives relief efforts, including cash and product donations in compliance
by donating medicines and funding to the Johnson & Johnson
with current international sanctions. Our donations included both
Patient Assistance Foundation, Inc. (JJPAF), an independent
Our Giving (Millions)* humanitarian support for refugees with a combined $10 million to
nonprofit that helps eligible patients without insurance coverage
the International Rescue Committee and International Federation
Scroll over chart for more information
receive prescription products donated by Johnson & Johnson
of Red Cross and Red Crescent, as well as products valued at
operating companies.
more than $22 million, including medical devices, essential
medicines and consumer health products such as first-aid and
Frontline Healthcare & Communities
feminine-hygiene products.
Disaster preparedness & relief
• Hurricanes Fiona and
We continue to work with trusted partners, including Americares, Ian: We partnered with
Heart to Heart International, the Catholic Medical Mission Board, Americares and Gulf Coast
MAP International, MedShare and International Health Partners, Community Foundation
on the front lines of care by coordinating product donations and to address immediate
supporting programs that help communities recover, rebuild and needs and restore health
become resilient. In the immediate aftermath of major disasters, we services in areas affected
provide essential Pharmaceutical, MedTech and Consumer Health by Hurricane Ian in central
products, as well as monetary donations and other support. Florida and Hurricane Fiona Heart to Heart International’s disaster response
in Puerto Rico. team provided free healthcare services in 2022.
Products contributed Cash contributed
• Volcano in Tonga: We worked with UNICEF to address the
* This chart includes Enterprise giving, including disaster relief, and the value $23.20 million $10.35 million needs of children and caregivers, following the eruption of
of products donated by Janssen to JJPAF. The significant increase in our
the underwater volcano Hunga Tonga Hunga Ha’apai, which
giving was attributed to product donations to JJPAF. The value of Johnson Funding provided for
& Johnson products the readiness and blanketed the majority of Tonga with volcanic ash, affecting nearly
Our community giving can be categorized into three channels: provided to communities immediate, mid- and 80% of Tonga’s population and displacing more than 1,525 people,
impacted by natural long-term response to including more than 500 children.
Foundation: The Johnson & Johnson Foundation is a registered disasters around the natural disasters in 2022.
world in 2022. • Flooding in Kentucky: We joined with Americares in the
charitable organization that is funded solely by the Johnson &
aftermath of the devastating flooding that struck southeastern
Johnson Family of Companies. The Foundation operates worldwide
Kentucky to help restore health services at three clinics and
as Johnson & Johnson Foundation United States (founded 1953)
support people displaced from their homes.
and Johnson & Johnson Foundation Scotland (founded 2007). In 2022, building on a 15-year collaboration, Johnson & Johnson
These independent entities support region-specific and global and International Health Partners (IHP) debuted a shared global • Earthquake in Indonesia: Following the earthquake that struck
partnerships and initiatives, employee volunteering and disaster donation platform that harnesses best practices and scale to help West Java, Indonesia, displacing more than 100,000 people, we
response activities. Specific initiatives supported by the Foundation communities in crisis recover, rebuild and regain resilience after provided, together with Project Hope, 10 community-managed
mentioned in this Report include the Center for Health Worker disasters. The technology behind this unified global system for latrines with water tanks in two villages offering access to clean
Innovation and Johnson & Johnson Impact Ventures. product donation will be extended to all Johnson & Johnson’s and water and sanitation facilities.
27Pandemics & Epidemics GRI 203-1, 203-2, SASB HC-BP-240a.1
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 3 urges us all to work toward ensuring healthy
lives and promoting well-being for all ages, with a specific target to end epidemics, including HIV, Health for Humanity 2025 Goals
tuberculosis and neglected tropical diseases by 2030. Vaccine protection against, and treatments
for, pandemic and epidemic diseases are critical to achieving this goal worldwide.
Providing access to and progressing the development of effective can have a transformational impact on public health. Expanding the use
Progress in Global Access Plans
treatments and vaccines to combat some of the world’s deadliest of our vaccination monitoring platform (VXNAID), one of our Health
diseases has long been a global public health priority for Johnson & for Humanity 2025 Goals, is a crucial step in advancing large-scale • C ontinued evaluation and development of access plans
for relevant pipeline assets, including for dengue.
Johnson and an important part of our global health equity strategy. immunization to protect people and save lives around the world.
We have amassed more than a century of experience in advancing • S pecific internal milestones set for 2022 progress
novel treatment regimens and vaccines and facilitating access to were achieved.
address multiple diseases, including HIV, TB, COVID-19, Ebola and Enabling access to our vaccination
dengue, as well as addressing the growing threat of AMR. monitoring platform
Pandemics & Epidemics
Progress in Preventive Viral
We developed VXNAID, a vaccine-agnostic digital platform Vaccine Capabilities
that supports adherent vaccine administration in the framework • D emonstrated supply capabilities and access pathways
of clinical studies or campaigns. VXNAID is a digital tool that for the Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine, including
integrates innovative technologies to improve patient tracing, shipping 268 million COVID-19 vaccines in 2022.
For all of us at Johnson & Johnson, Our Credo inspires
data management and communication to implement impactful • Captured processes internally for future documentation
us to be “responsible to the communities in which we live
vaccination campaigns in resource-limited settings. in playbook.
and work and to the world community as well.” This is a
• Internal and external pandemic preparedness activities
core tenet of our approach to global health security, as Between 2019 and 2021, the platform was deployed in a large-scale
continue across several potential threats.
we aim to stop the spread of life-threatening diseases Ebola vaccination campaign—called UMURINZI—in collaboration
that have the potential to wipe out entire communities if with the Government of Rwanda. UMURINZI was the first large
left unchecked. We have never been more determined use case of the platform and fully vaccinated more than 203,000 Progress in Vaccination
to advance our plans to safeguard people against the Rwandans against Ebola with the Johnson & Johnson Ebola Monitoring Platform
threat of pandemics and epidemics. vaccine regimen, comprising ZABDENO (Ad26.ZEBOV) and
• P latform implemented in 2021 in the WHO Solidarity Trial
Bavarian Nordic’s MVABEA (MVA-BN-Filo).
Vaccines for COVID-19 vaccines and continued in 2022,
including expansion to new countries.
In 2022, VXNAID was optimized based on the UMURINZI campaign
Vanessa Broadhurst and the second-generation platform shared as an open-source • A chieved external endorsement with the designation as a
Executive Vice President, Global Corporate Affairs, “Digital Public Good (DPG)” by the Digital Public Goods
Johnson & Johnson code, enabling global and open access to the platform for any
Alliance and addition to the Digital Public Goods registry.
vaccination program.
• O ptimized platform and shared as an open-source code,
enabling global/open access to the platform for any
In 2022, VXNAID was granted Digital Public Good designation
Our approach envisions creating a robust health ecosystem to advance
vaccination program.
by the Digital Public Goods Alliance and has been added to the
the availability and affordability of needed medicines and vaccines
Digital Public Goods registry. • C ompleted registered trademark filing of the platform
and facilitating access for all, including the world’s most vulnerable
name: VXNAID.
populations. Efficacious management of vaccine administration,
especially to combat urgent outbreaks of disease such as Ebola,
282022 Health for
In 2021, VXNAID was adopted by the WHO for use in its Solidarity Following the inaugural J&J Satellite Center for Global Health developing effective responses in our rapidly evolving global
Humanity Report
Trial Vaccines (STV), an international, multi-vaccine clinical trial to Discovery launch in 2021 at the London School of Hygiene & health environment. BLUE KNIGHT offers physical residency at
evaluate the efficacy and safety of COVID-19 vaccines. The use of Tropical Medicine, aimed at developing the next generation of select JLABS locations, as well as a virtual engagement option,
the platform in the STV program was acknowledged by the WHO drug regimens needed to treat all forms of TB, we opened two and portfolio companies are eligible to receive access to JLABS
in a public statement.27 In 2022, VXNAID was further deployed in more Satellite Centers in 2022: resources and programming, along with dedicated mentorship
the STV program and expanded to other countries. from Johnson & Johnson and BARDA.
South Africa: The Satellite Center for Global Health Discovery
VXNAID has been shared as an open-source code, enabling at the Holistic Drug Discovery and Development (H3D) Centre, BLUE KNIGHT expanded its portfolio of companies to include
global and open access for any vaccination program. University of Cape Town, focuses on outpacing the rising threat 27 companies by the end of 2022, of which 36% are female led,
of AMR. 36% are minority led and 68% are first-time entrepreneurs.
Singapore: The Satellite Center for Global Health Discovery at
To learn more about VXNAID in practice:
Duke-NUS in Singapore focuses on catalyzing investment and
bolstering discovery of flaviviruses.
Investing in research where it is needed most Collaboration across healthcare sectors and the larger
life science ecosystem can be critical to forging a safer,
Pandemics & Epidemics Johnson & Johnson is committed to addressing the dual gap in healthier future. The innovation of today can impact our
innovation and health equity through the establishment of the
approach to potential solutions of the future.
J&J Centers for Global Health Discovery. In joining forces with
academic institutions, leveraging regional networks and growing
in scope, the Centers provide long-term opportunities to support
Rachel Rath
talent in the discovery sciences and hopefully speed up the
Director, BARDA Alliance at Johnson & Johnson
discovery of novel mechanisms to tackle expanding and emerging
Innovation, JLABS
challenges in global health.
Over the last year, we have worked to expand connections and
strengthen our potential global impact by growing our portfolio
Dr. Anil Koul and Amarnath Sharma at the launch of the J&J Satellite Center and advancing innovation and collaboration in the following ways:
for Global Disease Discovery at the Duke-NUS Campus in Singapore.
It is critical that we invest in locally led innovation • Held our second BLUE KNIGHT Symposium, bringing people
to advance breakthrough science globally. The J&J Learn more about our Global Health Discovery Centers. together virtually and in person at the newly opened JLABS @
Centers for Global Health Discovery are the latest Washington, DC, our BLUE KNIGHT hub. The Symposium facilitated
chapter in our efforts to advance solutions for growing a global conversation
health threats in the areas where the research is Collaboration to combat health security threats with innovators, investors,
needed most. partners and thought leaders
In 2022, our BLUE KNIGHT collaboration made further progress to discover and accelerate
with portfolio companies having raised $160 million in secured next-generation solutions for
and contingent funding by the end of the year. The BLUE KNIGHT future pandemics, emerging
William N. Hait, M.D., Ph.D.
joint initiative was created between JLABS and the Biomedical infectious diseases and other
Executive Vice President, Chief External Innovation
and Medical Officer, Johnson & Johnson Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA), part known and unknown health
of the Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response at threats. More than 1,800
the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. It is dedicated people from 50+ countries Melinda Richter, Global Head of JLABS
and Gary Disbrow, BARDA Director, join
to anticipating potential health security threats with the aim of registered for the event. the 2022 BLUE KNIGHT Symposium.
27 WHO, “WHO statement on Solidarity Trial Vaccines,” https://www.who.int/news/item/26-10-2021-who-statement-on-solidarity-trial-vaccines. 292022 Health for
• Launched our first BLUE KNIGHT QuickFire Challenge, Our COVID-19 vaccine
Humanity Report
inviting innovators from across the globe to submit potentially
groundbreaking ideas or technologies that aim to enhance Acting with urgency at the onset of COVID-19, Johnson & Johnson
preparedness toward future known and unknown infectious galvanized resources to help halt the pandemic through developing
disease threats. Four awardees were selected to take their an easy-to-deploy vaccine, obtaining regulatory authorizations,
potential health security solutions to the next level. building supply chain capabilities and engaging with partners around
the world to support health systems and healthcare providers
involved in combating COVID-19. From the beginning, we identified
• Enhanced the reach and influence of the BLUE KNIGHT
new and impactful ways to optimize clinical trials, reach diverse
community through participation in several events and
communities and ensure appropriate representation from all
congresses, including the Bipartisan Commission on Biodefense
populations in our research.
meeting, Banding Together: Partnerships for Biodefense. The
meeting examined ways to incentivize and manage partnerships
In 2021 and 2022, the Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine
between the federal government and industry, academia and
received multiple regulatory authorizations, emergency use waivers
NGOs to drive technology innovation and improve biological
and import permits in many countries worldwide, including 50
intelligence for current and future threats. Three BLUE KNIGHT
countries in Africa.
companies presented their next-generation preparedness
Pandemics & Epidemics
solutions at the meeting, the first time that early stage companies
were invited to speak to the Commission, showcasing the
power of public-private partnerships to accelerate scientific >268 million
and technological advancements.
Johnson & Johnson delivered more than 268 million
COVID-19 vaccines in 2022, with more than 85%
launch-to-date shipped to LMICs.
Being selected as a BLUE KNIGHT company
For more information related to our COVID-19 vaccine,
generated an immediate increase in scientific
see our 2022 Annual Report.
credibility, exposure to potential partners and investors
and this would have taken us much longer to do on
our own as a small company.
Brian Wiley
Strategic Advisor, ENA Respiratory, at the
Bipartisan Commission on Biodefense meeting
30HIV
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
At Johnson & Johnson, we have been committed to fighting HIV for decades. Together, we are
helping to advance science, enable access and collaborate to improve lives around the world in Health for Humanity 2025 Goals
a determined effort to make HIV history.
Though there have been significant advances in prevention since the In 2022, the FDA approved a label update for the product, giving HCPs
beginning of the global epidemic, 1.5 million people acquired HIV and people living with HIV in the U.S. the option to start this once-
in 2021 alone,28 underscoring the high unmet need for new options. monthly or every-two-month injectable treatment without the need Progress in Access to HIV Treatment
That’s why we must continue to drive out inequalities in access to HIV for the oral lead-in phase. Additionally, in 2022, the FDA approved • Registration approval was received from the Botswana
treatment while making HIV treatment easier, more effective and more CABENUVA (cabotegravir and rilpivirine) for adolescents who are 12 Medicines Regulatory Authority, marking the first RLS
available for everyone. years of age or older as the first and only LAI HIV regimen to be made approval of the co-developed HIV LAI regimen (Janssen’s
available for eligible adolescents, reducing the daily pill burden through rilpivirine LA with ViiV Healthcare’s cabotegravir LA).
a treatment offered as few as six days per year. Adhering to treatment • C linical studies are ongoing to demonstrate the safety and
regimens can be difficult for adolescents, who may skip HIV medicine efficacy of the HIV LAI regimen in adults and adolescents
doses to hide their HIV-positive status from others.29 across multiple countries in sub-Saharan Africa.
HIV
We remain focused on helping transform HIV from a
Regulatory approvals and studies in resource-limited settings:
terminal illness into a manageable condition, enabling
In 2022, the HIV LAI regimen was approved by the Botswana
those affected by the virus to enjoy productive lives. Our We are also conducting and/or supporting four key additional
Medicines Regulatory Authority, marking the first approval of
best science, the passion and dedication of our scientists clinical studies to demonstrate the safety and efficacy (randomized
our co-developed HIV LAI regimen in a resource-limited country.
and our extensive collaborations have enabled us to controlled trials), as well as the feasibility and acceptability
We continue to seek regulatory approvals in additional RLS,
again make significant progress in 2022. (implementation research), of the HIV LAI regimen in adults and
including regulatory submissions in South Africa in 2021 and
adolescents across four sub-Saharan African countries: Kenya,
Thailand in 2022.
South Africa, Uganda and Zimbabwe. All four studies are at
different stages of enrolling more than a total of 1,700 participants:
Brian Woodfall, M.D.
Vice President, Global Head of Development, • Cabotegravir And Rilpivirine Efficacy and Safety Study (CARES
Infectious Diseases & Vaccines, Janssen R&D study) in HIV-1 infected virologically suppressed adults;
This longer-acting treatment regimen could be • Long-Acting Treatment in Adolescents (LATA study) in HIV-1
potentially game-changing for young people with HIV, infected virologically suppressed adolescents;
New and expanded U.S. regulatory approvals for HIV treatment:
particularly since it’s not pill based.
Our fruitful collaboration with ViiV Healthcare has helped to deliver a
• Acceptability and Feasibility of
Long-acting Injectable ART in
new and meaningful treatment option, with the world’s first, complete
Adolescents (AFINAty study)
long-acting injectable (LAI) HIV treatment regimen. The LAI regimen
Kati Vandermeulen in HIV-1 infected virologically
includes two ARV drugs, one developed by Janssen (rilpivirine) and the
Senior Director and Compound Development Team suppressed adolescents; and
other by ViiV Healthcare (cabotegravir). This regimen is also known as
Leader, Infectious Diseases & Vaccines, Janssen R&D
CABENUVA (cabotegravir and rilpivirine) in the U.S. Both the once- • Improving HIV-1 Control in
monthly and the every-two-months versions of this HIV LAI treatment Africa With Long-Acting
regimen for adults have been approved by health authorities in Europe, Antiretrovirals (IMPALA study)
Switzerland and Canada. Additionally, the once-monthly version has in HIV-1 infected adults with a
been approved by the health authority in Australia. history of suboptimal adherence. participants
28 UNAIDS, “Global HIV & AIDS statistics — Fact sheet 2022,” https://www.unaids.org/en/resources/fact-sheet, accessed February 2023. 29 HIV.info, NIH.gov, “HIV and Children and Adolescents,” https://hivinfo.nih.gov/understanding-hiv/fact- 31
sheets/hiv-and-children-and-adolescents, accessed February 2023.2022 Health for
Combating pediatric HIV: In addition to the FDA approval of the HIV prevention for women and girls: The dapivirine vaginal ring, Learning from HIV vaccine trials: In January 2023, together with
Humanity Report
HIV LAI regimen for adolescents, our work to expand improved recommended in 2021 by the WHO as an additional prevention a consortium of global partners, we discontinued Mosaico, our
solutions for children living with HIV is ongoing. A combination choice for women as part of a combination of prevention large-scale efficacy study in the Americas and Europe, that aimed
tablet, containing our product PREZISTA (darunavir) in a fixed-dose approaches, received approval in 2022 from the South African to test the safety and efficacy of a specific composition of an
combination with ritonavir 50mg, received WHO Prequalification Health Products Regulatory Authority for use by women aged investigational HIV vaccine regimen among men who have sex with
in 2022 and is helping meet treatment needs as a second-line 18 and older to help reduce their risk of contracting HIV. Several men and transgender individuals. The study’s independent Data
treatment for adults and children. Johnson & Johnson has had a approvals in Africa have been received, and there are additional and Safety Monitoring Board determined that the regimen was not
specific policy since 2012 not to enforce the patents it owns and applications currently pending. effective in preventing HIV infection compared to placebo among
controls on PREZISTA (darunavir) in sub-Saharan Africa and Least study participants. No vaccine-related safety issues were identified.
Developed Countries. In 2015, we expanded the geographical
scope of the policy for pediatric products used in LMICs.
The effects of gender
inequalities on women’s
In 2021, children accounted for 4% of all people living with
HIV risks are especially
HIV but for 15% of all AIDS-related deaths.30 While we are disappointed with the study outcome, it
pronounced in sub-Saharan
serves to underscore the unique challenges that have
Africa, where women
Johnson & Johnson is a co-founder of the New Horizons faced the global scientific community in the over 40-
accounted for 63% of new
Collaborative, which aims to improve treatment and care for year search for an HIV vaccine, and we are hopeful that
HIV infections in 2021.32
HIV children and young adults with HIV in 11 countries across the region learning from Mosaico may provide important data in
through drug donation and capacity building. In 2021, Johnson & the ongoing fight against HIV. We remain committed to
Johnson, in collaboration with the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS A mother and daughter wait to be tested at an HIV clinic in Kihihi, seeking innovative solutions for HIV.
Uganda. Photo by New Horizons Collaborative.
Foundation,31 renewed our commitment to the initiative, pledging
to extend our darunavir donation program and continue enrolling
The dapivirine ring is a long-acting HIV prevention method
new pediatric and young adult HIV patients through at least 2025.
designed specifically for women. It was developed by the Penny Heaton, M.D.
This is also an important step toward meeting our commitments
International Partnership for Microbicides under an exclusive Global Therapeutic Area Head, Infectious
to help tackle the challenge of pediatric HIV as part of the Rome
license from Janssen for use of its ARV compound and is now Diseases & Vaccines, Janssen R&D
5 Paediatric HIV and TB Action Plan. In 2022, more than 1,700
owned by Population Council. The flexible, silicone ring is discreet,
children were enrolled in this treatment program in sub-Saharan
easy to use, has minimal side effects and only needs to be replaced
African countries. Learn more about our progress in helping make HIV history.
monthly. The initial approvals and pilot implementation of the
dapivirine ring in South Africa is an important step in the decades-
long fight against HIV, particularly for adolescent girls and young
women in sub-Saharan Africa, who are three times more likely to
acquire HIV than their male counterparts.33
Johnson & Johnson was a founding member of the MenStar
Coalition, which has helped more than 3 million men living
with HIV in sub-Saharan Africa get into treatment, with 95%
becoming virally suppressed.
A child waits to be tested at an HIV clinic in Kihihi, Uganda. Photo by New Horizons
Collaborative.
30 UNAIDS, “Dangerous Inequalities, World AIDS Day Report 2022,” https://www.unaids.org/sites/default/files/media_asset/dangerous-inequalities_en.pdf, accessed February 2023. 31 Funded primarily by the Johnson & Johnson Foundation, a registered
charity and a company limited by guarantee. The Foundation is a separate legal entity from the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies. The Foundation operates worldwide as Johnson & Johnson Foundation United States (founded 1953) and Johnson & 32
Johnson Foundation Scotland (founded 2007). 32 UNAIDS, “Dangerous Inequalities, World AIDS Day Report 2022,” https://www.unaids.org/sites/default/files/media_asset/dangerous-inequalities_en.pdf, accessed February 2023. 33 Ibid.Tuberculosis
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
The challenge to end tuberculosis (TB) remains a priority for healthcare, especially in resource-limited
settings. At Johnson & Johnson, we continue to meet this challenge, both in the lab and at the last mile
of health, driven by our 10-year TB initiative and two decades of experience in the fight against TB.
As a global healthcare company, Johnson & Johnson is
committed to utilizing our unique strengths, including
our decades of experience in research and development
More than three years since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, and our deep understanding of insights and behavior
the world is still fighting to regain progress that had been made Health for Humanity 2025 Goals change to help end the TB pandemic.
in combating TB. For the first time in several years, there was an
increase in people falling ill with TB in 2021, and deaths continue to
increase year over year.34
Howard Reid
Global Head of Global Public Health and Social Impact,
Globally, the estimated number of deaths from TB increased Johnson & Johnson
between 2019 and 2021, reversing years of decline between
Progress in Access to
2005 and 2019. In 2021, 1.6 million people died from TB, including
Tuberculosis (TB) Treatment
187,000 people with HIV.35
Milestones in our fight against TB
• I n 2022, 134,000 patients received access to bedaquiline
Tuberculosis potentially averting 1.2 million new MDR-TB infections.
Rising AMR and the “missing millions” of undiagnosed people December 2022 marked 10 years since the accelerated approval
continue to be challenges. In 2022, we made great strides to help
• F rom 2021–2022, 269,000 patients received access
of SIRTURO (bedaquiline) by the FDA. When Johnson & Johnson
to bedaquiline, potentially averting 2.4 million new
reignite the global fight against TB through our collaborations, received approval for SIRTURO (bedaquiline) in 2012, it was the
MDR-TB infections.
continue our commitment to our patients, reinvest in the first TB medicine with a novel mechanism of action in more than
development of new treatments and advocate on behalf of the 40 years. Since then, bedaquiline has been recommended by the
people most affected by TB. WHO as a core component of all-oral treatment regimens for
Progress in Developing TB Treatment
MDR-TB and is available to countries representing 99% of the
To learn more about TB and Johnson & Johnson’s work to
• C ontinued clinical development for a novel, collaborative
global TB burden.
asset, including dosing completed in a Phase I study.
help end TB:
• P rogress was also made with consortia groups, including
UNITE4TB and PAN-TB, using bedaquiline as a key
Without treatment, the death rate from TB is high (about 50%).
component in several studies.
With currently recommended treatments (a four- to six-month
course of anti-TB drugs), about 85% of people can be cured.36
A mother who is receiving treatment for TB and
her three children in Gqeberha, South Africa.
34 WHO, “Global Tuberculosis Report 2022 Factsheet,” https://www.who.int/publications/m/item/global-tuberculosis-report-2022-factsheet, accessed February 2023. 35 Ibid; 36 Ibid. 332022 Health for
In 2022, we reached a milestone with more than 586,000 Studies such as these help underscore the importance of
Humanity Report
courses of SIRTURO (bedaquiline), our multidrug-resistant bedaquiline in helping solve one of today’s greatest global health
tuberculosis (MDR-TB) medicine, delivered cumulatively to challenges and reinforce confidence in the effectiveness of the
158 countries, including all 30 high-burden TB countries.37 treatment in adults, adolescents and children. Today, our medicine has become the backbone of
WHO-recommended all-oral treatment regimens for
This milestone represents a critical part of our 10-year initiative nearly all DR-TB patients, and this PAN-TB collaboration
to help end TB, but our work continues. Johnson & Johnson is will allow us to further explore our medicine’s potential
continuing to collaborate across sectors to enable access to our to help transform TB treatment for patients in need while
medicine for MDR-TB patients around the world, with a focus on maintaining its long-term effectiveness in the face of
expanding access to the pediatric formulation of bedaquiline as rising antimicrobial resistance.
part of the Rome 5 Action Plan and safeguarding its long-term
effectiveness through careful stewardship. Beyond our medicine,
we are also continuing to support global efforts to help find the
Ruxandra Draghia-Akli, M.D., Ph.D.
“missing millions” of people with undiagnosed TB and advance
Global Head, Global Public Health R&D,
innovative R&D to develop the next generation of TB treatments.
Janssen R&D
Since 2012, bedaquiline has been registered in 72 countries,
more than any other medicine specifically developed for the
There is still a large global gap between the estimated number
treatment of MDR-TB, advancing availability to countries with
Tuberculosis of people who fell ill with TB and the number of people newly
the greatest need.
diagnosed, with 4.2 million people not diagnosed with the
A scientist conducting TB research at Groote Schuur Research Centre, South Africa.
disease or not officially reported to national authorities in 2021,
3 of 4 MDR-TB patients globally are now enrolled on all oral up from 3.2 million in 2019.40
Collaborating to advance TB drug regimens
bedaquiline-containing regimens.
In 2022, the Project to Accelerate New Treatments for Tuberculosis In addition to PAN-TB, our membership in several research
In 2022, new scientific data was generated to support the safety (PAN-TB) collaboration announced the execution of a joint collaborations and consortia is ongoing. These include the
and efficacy of bedaquiline. The STREAM Stage 2 clinical trial is development agreement (JDA) supporting the progression of two following TB initiatives, which are all part of the Innovative
the world’s largest clinical trial for MDR-TB and was conducted investigational TB combination treatment regimens into Phase Medicines Initiative (IMI):
by the Medical Research Council Clinical Trials Unit at University
2 clinical development. The collaboration will evaluate whether • UNITE4TB: This global consortium of 30 collaborators from
College London and sponsored by Vital Strategies, Inc. With nearly
the novel regimens, which combine registered products and new 13 countries, launched in 2021, aims to advance anti-TB science
600 participants enrolled, from eight countries on three continents,
chemical entities, can effectively treat all forms of active pulmonary and enable the progression of new, safe and affordable treatment
the trial found both bedaquiline-containing regimens, a nine-month
TB using substantially shorter treatment durations than existing solutions for TB patients worldwide. During the first year of
oral regimen and a six-month regimen with eight weeks of second-
drug regimens, with the goal of identifying a regimen suitable for the project, a sponsor was chosen for the first Phase 2 clinical
line injectable, had superior efficacy compared with a nine-month
Phase 3 development. trials; innovative clinical trial designs were developed; and the
injectable-containing regimen, with fewer cases of hearing loss.
project shortlisted the first trial sites in Africa, Asia, Europe and
This fills an important gap in evidence on shortened regimens for Recognizing that no single organization produces the full range of
South America.
MDR-TB.38 drugs needed to respond to TB, the PAN-TB collaboration brings
together philanthropic, nonprofit and private-sector organizations to • ERA4TB: The ERA4TB initiative integrates more than 30
Additionally, a study39 of more than 5,000 patients with MDR-TB from accelerate the development of novel, shorter drug regimens to treat organizations from the EU and the U.S. over a six-year period
14 sites in South Africa showed that treatment with a bedaquiline- all forms of TB. Alongside Johnson & Johnson’s bedaquiline, four starting from 2020 to develop at least two or more new
containing regimen was associated with better survival and additional antimicrobial agents are to be evaluated under the new JDA. combination regimens with treatment-shortening potential
effectiveness compared to non-bedaquiline-containing regimens ready for Phase 2 clinical evaluation.
in patients with MDR-TB.
37 Upon review of the data and reconciliation processes, a change was needed to correct the annual number of courses of SIRTURO (bedaquiline) shipped for years 2018 to 2021, which resulted in a 1.1% reduction in the total cumulative shipments from 593,000 to
586,000 between 2014 and 2022. 38 Goodall RL, Meredith SK, Nunn, AJ, et al, “Evaluation of two short standardised regimens for the treatment of rifampicin-resistant tuberculosis (STREAM stage 2): an open-label, multicentre, randomised, non-inferiority trial,”
The Lancet, https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(22)02078-5/fulltext, accessed February 2023. 39 BMC, “Bedaquiline safety, efficacy, utilization and emergence of resistance following treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis
patients in South Africa: a retrospective cohort analysis,” https://bmcinfectdis.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12879-022-07861-x, accessed February 2023. 40 WHO, “Global Tuberculosis Report 2022 Factsheet,” https://www.who.int/publications/m/item/ 34
global-tuberculosis-report-2022-factsheet, accessed February 2023.2022 Health for
• RESPIRI-TB: An international research consortium of eight high-risk populations and streamlining TB case reporting and • Southeast Asia: Johnson & Johnson launched TB Warriors,
Humanity Report European academic and biotechnology organizations, IMI tracking mechanisms. Additionally, we collaborated to launch a an initiative in collaboration with the National TB programs of
RESPIRI-TB aims to develop a new, more efficient combination- youth volunteer and patient-finding initiative in the Sichuan and Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam to educate youth
drug regimen to cure MDR-TB, with a focus on shortening Zhejiang provinces and supported public awareness campaigns about TB in a fun and entertaining way using social media, mobile
treatment duration and minimizing the likelihood of resistance. focused on TB, including the “I’m a Great Doctor” TB special on games and more. In the Philippines, we also collaborated with the
Beijing TV. Philippine Tuberculosis Society, Inc. to launch a youth community
• EU-PEARL: A strategic consortia between the public and private case-finding initiative, from awareness to care.
sectors to shape the future of clinical trials, developing the
specific Investigational Research Platform frameworks for trials • South Africa: Building on our pediatric DR-TB collaboration
with Aquity Innovations in South Africa, the Johnson & Johnson
ready to operate in disease areas still facing high unmet need.
Foundation Scotland and Aquity collaborated with EPCON to
Our GPH organization jointly leads the working group on TB, and,
launch an initiative to improve health-seeking behavior among
in 2022, the group presented a new approach to designing an We are proud to work with our key partners in China
youth and conduct a new insight study to better understand
adaptive platform trial for TB. to drive impact against TB. Based on the successful
barriers to care for children and youth.
outcome of the program, we will extend the key
elements and integrated models achieved in the
Engaging youth to build a TB-free future project to more places to continue to help enable a
TB-free China.
On World TB Day in 2022, Johnson & Johnson came together
with the global community to progress a series of initiatives in
Every individual and every organization has the potential
Tuberculosis high-burden countries aimed at helping to empower a generation
to make an impact in the fight against TB. With the
of youth to end TB. The initiatives advance global efforts to help Jenny Zheng
power of multisector partnerships coming together in
find the missing millions of people living with undiagnosed TB and President, Xi’an Janssen
numbers and uniting under one common cause, we can
are part of Johnson & Johnson’s 10-year initiative to help drive
help turn the tide against this devastating disease once
progress toward ending the disease by 2030, aligned with a target
and for all.
of UN SDG 3.
• India: In collaboration with the National TB Elimination
Through wide collaboration, our initiatives aimed to engage Program in India, we launched a youth-focused, digital-first
young people to drive health-seeking behavior, build community campaign called Be the Change: Badlaav (“change” in Hindi).
Sarthak Ranade
awareness, improve active case finding and reduce stigma to Through social media, chatbots and more, the initiative aims
Area Managing Director, South East Asia
enhance early diagnosis of TB, all with a goal of encouraging to create youth “changemakers” for TB to encourage health-
and India, Janssen
people with TB to seek the care and treatment they need. seeking behavior, increase awareness about the disease and
build youth engagement and participation in support of the
Some examples of our activations on World TB Day include:
Indian government’s vision of a TB-free India. Additionally, Our engagement with the Ending Workplace TB initiative,
• China: In 2022, we celebrated the conclusion of a three-year with sponsorship from Johnson & Johnson, the MTV Staying a multisectoral collaboration that we co-launched in
collaboration with the Chinese government on TB, as China is
Alive Foundation expanded on the success of MTV Nishedh, a 2020, continued. In 2022, the initiative grew from 24 to 48
one of 30 high-burden TB countries. Our role was to assist the
youth-focused “edutainment” campaign in India, by launching multinational companies pledging to address TB in their
Chinese government in addressing the TB challenge across
a new season in November 2022. As part of this initiative, the workforce.
the country and build evidence to support policy suggestions
Foundation developed a 10-episode drama series focused on the
and technical solutions to the National Health Commission
lives of young people in India and touched on TB storylines in an
Learn more about our progress in helping to end TB.
of China to further improve diagnosis rates. The project was
effort to raise awareness around the disease, reduce stigma and
carried out across a population of about 10 million in the three
promote early detection of symptoms.
prefectures of Ganzhou, Linfen and Yulin and involved training
healthcare providers, improving access to molecular tests for
Learn more about our #BeTheChangeForTB in India.
35Ebola
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Over the past three decades, Ebola outbreaks have become larger and more frequent. In the last Recognizing African-led pandemic preparedness
decade alone, the two deadliest outbreaks on record in West Africa and the Democratic Republic
In 2019, Johnson & Johnson supported the government of Rwanda
of the Congo further underscored the urgent need for innovation to protect communities at risk.
and other partners to advance the Unprecedented Movement
to drive a Unified Rwandan Initiative for National EBOLA
Immunization (UMURINZI), a large-scale vaccination effort to
Ebola is a significant and growing health threat that was recently Additionally, the WHO’s Strategic Advisory Group of Experts has prevent Ebola along the Rwandan border with the Democratic
ranked by the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention recommended the proactive use of our Ebola vaccine regimen in Republic of the Congo. We shared insights from UMURINZI at a
among the pathogens with the highest-risk trajectory and epidemic non-outbreak settings to protect those most at risk, like healthcare symposium at the 2nd Annual International Conference on Public
potential. In 2022 alone, there were three outbreaks—one in Uganda workers and frontline workers. With this recommendation, Health in Africa in Rwanda. The UMURINZI campaign vaccinated
was caused by the rarer Sudan ebolavirus, for which there is no countries have an additional tool to deploy in national pandemic more than 203,000 people with our Ebola vaccine regimen and
approved vaccine or treatment. These outbreaks not only cause prevention strategies and protect critical health and security provides valuable experience that can be used to help prevent and
significant economic disruption, illness and loss of life, but they are infrastructure in countries living under the threat of this disease. respond quickly to the threat of a pandemic.
particularly dangerous to healthcare workers and others working on
the front lines. As of December 2022, more than 264,000 people worldwide Our INGABO study, which was established as part of UMURINZI
had received a first dose of our Ebola vaccine regimen, to evaluate the vaccine in healthy pregnant women, continued
The Zaire Ebola virus species has the highest mortality including 242,000 who had been fully vaccinated. through 2022 with enrollment of 2,000 patients completed and
rate of 60% to 90%.41 1,800 fully vaccinated by the end of the year. This is Johnson &
In 2022, additional data on the safety and immunogenicity of our
Ebola Johnson’s first pregnancy vaccine trial. With positive results, it
Ebola vaccine regimen was published in The New England Journal
At Johnson & Johnson, our vision is to protect people at risk would offer the only Ebola prevention option for pregnant women
of Medicine.42 The data was generated in the Phase 2 clinical trial
of Ebola by preventing outbreaks before they can begin. We as part of our vision to halt the spread of Ebola.
of the Partnership for Research on Ebola VACcinations (PREVAC),
accelerated the development of our vaccine regimen in response
which evaluated our Ebola vaccine regimen, among others, in In May 2021, the Johnson & Johnson Ebola vaccine regimen was
to the 2014 outbreak in West Africa to help stop the spread in
2,800 participants across trial sites in Guinea, Liberia, Mali and granted a temporary use authorization in the Democratic Republic
outbreak-adjacent areas. Today, Johnson & Johnson’s two-dose
Sierra Leone. These results add to a growing body of scientific of the Congo to support the planned prophylactic deployment of
Ebola vaccine regimen comprising ZABDENO (Ad26.ZEBOV)
literature that demonstrate the Johnson & Johnson Ebola vaccine our vaccine regimen to help prevent future outbreaks. Johnson
and Bavarian Nordic’s MVABEA (MVA-BN-Filo) is indicated for
regimen has a favorable safety profile, is well tolerated and induces & Johnson is collaborating with the Ministry of Health, Hygiene
active immunization of disease caused by the Ebola virus (Zaire
a robust immune response against the Zaire Ebola virus species in and Prevention of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, acting
ebolavirus species) in individuals ≥1 year of age. Building on
adults and children (aged 1 – 17 years). through its National Institute for Biomedical Research, to launch
the earlier approval from the European Commission and WHO
a new Ebola prevention program in Mbandaka and other parts of
Prequalification, our
Équateur province. The program, launched in early 2023, aims to
regimen received new
strengthen local capacity with expanded capabilities to prevent
regulatory Marketing
Ebola outbreaks and respond more swiftly when outbreaks occur.
Authorizations in Côte
We believe that through proactive use of our Ebola Johnson & Johnson is donating 45,000 Ebola vaccine regimens
d’Ivoire and Ghana in 2022
vaccine, the global health community can help and working closely to support capacity development.
and in Rwanda, Sierra
protect vulnerable communities living under the
Leone and Uganda in early
threat of this disease. Learn more about our progress in preventing the spread of Ebola.
2023. These continued
approvals are key to
enabling access to our
vaccine regimen for people Ruxandra Draghia-Akli, M.D., Ph.D.
and communities who live Global Head, Global Public Health R&D,
A scientist works in the lab on formulations
for Ebola treatments in Leiden, Netherlands. under the threat of Ebola. Janssen R&D
41 Kadanali A and Karagoz G, “An overview of Ebola virus disease,” North Clin Istanb., 2015 Apr 24;2(1):81-86, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5175058/. 42 The New England Journal of Medicine, “Randomized Trial of Vaccines for Zaire 36
Ebola Virus Disease,” 2022 Dec 29;387:2411-2424, https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa2200072, accessed February 2023.Neglected Tropical Diseases
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) are a cause of significant illness, disability and death, especially Centre for Drug Design and Discovery in Belgium, has developed
a dengue-specific antiviral compound with a novel mechanism of
among children in some of the world’s poorest and most vulnerable communities.
action that could potentially protect against and treat all dengue
serotypes. Dengue eradication or elimination is not feasible due
to existing animal reservoirs and limitations of current protective
In 2022, we renewed our commitment to fight NTDs by joining the Since 2006, the VERMOX (mebendazole) program donated
measures against the multiple strains and serotypes circulating.
global community, including governments, foundations, nonprofit more than 2.2 billion doses, treating up to 100 million patients
The toolbox to combat dengue needs to grow, and antivirals could
organizations and other pharmaceutical companies, to endorse the annually in 61 countries. More than 200 million doses of
be a vital new tool, helping to slow down outbreaks and limit
Kigali Declaration on Neglected Tropical Diseases. Together, we are VERMOX Chewable were donated in 2022 alone.
epidemic levels of cases.
recommitting to our long-established efforts to control and eliminate
NTDs, a set of debilitating diseases that put at risk the health of 1.7 Upon proof-of-concept in a non-human primate model, and
Innovation to combat flavivirus
billion people43 around the world, especially the most vulnerable and following results from our first-in-human Phase 1 double-blind
under-resourced. We committed to the following: We also invited scientists from across the APAC and Oceania study that showed the compound is safe and well tolerated, we
• d onating up to 200 million doses annually of VERMOX regions to take part in our Global Health Discovery QuickFire progressed in 2022 to Phase 2a clinical studies to evaluate our
(mebendazole), our medicine to treat intestinal worms, Challenge: Flavivirus Infections. The challenge aimed to attract antiviral compound for prevention and treatment of dengue. One
through 2025; and potentially groundbreaking ideas to treat, control or prevent study is a human challenge study conducted in collaboration with
flavivirus disease. The innovator(s) with the best potential solution Johns Hopkins University, University of Vermont and NIH. The other
• a dvancing novel R&D programs to discover new medicines
receive grant funding from a total pool of up to $300,000; access is being conducted in collaboration with Singapore’s Duke-NUS
needed to beat dengue and leprosy.
to the JLABS APAC community, including a dedicated workstation Medical School, which is also home to Johnson & Johnson’s third
Neglected Tropical Diseases for one year at JLABS @ Shanghai; and mentorship from Satellite Center for Global Health Discovery in APAC, launched in
Of the 20 NTDs prioritized in the WHO roadmap 2021 – 2030,
Johnson & Johnson experts. June 2022. This Satellite Center aims to catalyze investment and
Johnson & Johnson research and medicines support the
bolster R&D infrastructure for flaviviruses and builds on Johnson &
treatment and prevention of three high-prevalence NTDs:
Johnson’s decade-long legacy and ongoing collaboration with
dengue; soil-transmitted helminthiasis (STH), also known as Treating leprosy
Duke-NUS in public health research.
intestinal worms; and leprosy.44
Preliminary data from Janssen’s Phase 2a proof-of-concept
study show promising results for bedaquiline for the treatment of
Donating more than 2.2 billion doses
of VERMOX (mebendazole): For more leprosy. We shared these results at the 21st International Leprosy
than 15 years, Johnson & Johnson has Congress 2022, noting that our compound bedaquiline appears
The establishment of the Satellite Center at Duke-
been at the forefront of global efforts to be generally well tolerated when dosed as monotherapy over a
NUS builds upon our strong track record in flavivirus
to beat NTDs, donating more than 2.2 period of eight weeks in a leprosy study population consisting of
research and bench-to-bedside innovations and will
billion doses of VERMOX (mebendazole) multibacillary leprosy patients, the most advanced form of leprosy,
facilitate antiviral drug discovery for the prevention
for the treatment of intestinal worms followed by 12 months of a WHO-recommended leprosy treatment
and treatment of flavivirus-associated diseases that are
to field partners in more than 60 regimen. The preliminary data mark an important milestone in
affecting communities in Southeast Asia and beyond.
countries. This was further bolstered Johnson & Johnson’s pledge to advance research and development
by the development of a new chewable formulation of VERMOX programs and generate the evidence needed to explore innovative
(mebendazole) in 2019 that can be easily administered to children as treatment options to tackle leprosy.
young as 1 year of age, supporting the training of community health Professor Patrick Casey
workers, enabling better data management and supporting the Senior Vice Dean of Research, Duke-NUS
Progressing dengue treatment and research
Medical School
development of new diagnostics. Through tireless and collaborative
efforts, countless children in need have been given the opportunity Janssen’s Dengue Compound Discovery Program, which started
to recover, play, learn and thrive. in 2007 in collaboration with KU Leuven Rega Institute and the Learn more about our progress in addressing NTDs.
43 https://unitingtocombatntds.org/en/the-kigali-declaration/the-declaration/, accessed February 2023. 44 WHO, Ending the neglect to attain Sustainable Development Goals: A road map for neglected tropical diseases, 2021–2030,” https://apps.who.int/ 37
iris/rest/bitstreams/1326801/retrieve, accessed February 2023.Antimicrobial Resistance
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is already a crisis, made even more concerning by the COVID-19 Johnson & Johnson is one of the top three companies leading
the way in addressing the complex health challenge of
pandemic. As microorganisms develop resistance to medicines that millions of people have relied upon
AMR, as assessed by the independent Access to Medicine
for years, common diseases are becoming difficult or impossible to cure and the spread of infections
Foundation in its third AMR Benchmark published in 2021.
harder to control.
As the largest, most diversified healthcare products company, with a Invasive ExPEC Disease (IED), such as sepsis, caused by the
purpose to profoundly change the trajectory of health for humanity, nine most prevalent serotypes of ExPEC, in adults aged 60 years
We must come together to advance investment in
we care deeply about reversing the development of AMR. Rising AMR and older. It is a multicenter event-driven vaccine efficacy study
African-led innovation to protect the health of our
has been ranked among the most significant health threats facing the featuring a group-sequential design and includes over 18,500
communities and the world. It is critical that local
world by the WHO and, left uncontrolled, could turn routine infections adults aged 60 years and older with one or more additional risk
researchers have the opportunity to investigate the
and surgical procedures into life-or-death situations. factors for invasive disease.
challenges that impact their communities without
To help counter the AMR threat, Johnson & Johnson has committed having to leave those communities. This collaboration
to investing in and advancing critical science, as well as providing will further foster the talent and provide the tools and
access to antibiotics and safeguarding their long-term effectiveness, opportunity needed to create innovative solutions in
to meet public health needs. As part of these efforts, Janssen is public health.
Antibiotics have been the backbone of modern medicine
leading the pursuit for novel vaccines and therapeutics to tackle
for more than a century, but increasing resistance
a range of drug-resistant infections, including DR-TB and E. coli.
threatens to render them ineffective. Our innovation in
Specifically, our decades of investment in helping end TB is a critical
Antimicrobial Resistance new antibiotic drug discovery must outpace this rising Kelly Chibale, Ph.D.
contributor to our efforts to outpace AMR.
threat of multi- or extreme-drug resistant pathogens. Founder and Director of H3D
WHO has declared that AMR is one of the top 10 global public health
threats facing humanity.45 Annually, 1.2 million deaths are attributable
to AMR, and 4.9 million deaths are associated with AMR.46 Anil Koul, Ph.D. Sharing data to accelerate AMR research: In 2022, we were
Vice President, Discovery and Partnerships, pleased to commit to participating in a groundbreaking data-
Global Public Health R&D, Janssen R&D sharing initiative to increase understanding of AMR, launched
Johnson & Johnson is also a founding member of the AMR Action
by nonprofit Vivli. The AMR Register makes it possible for
Fund and the AMR Industry Alliance, which are focused on creating
biopharmaceutical companies to share susceptibility data on
the sustainable ecosystem of investment and innovation to tackle Dedicating resources to AMR science: In 2022, we expanded our
infection-causing pathogens for the first time ever in one online
the AMR threat. In 2022, the AMR Action Fund made its first J&J Centers for Global Health Discovery (J&J Centers) with the
platform, marking a critical step in combating the growing global
investments in two companies, Adaptive Phage Therapeutics and launch of the Johnson & Johnson Satellite Center for Global Health
health threat of AMR. With the active participation from leading
Venatorx Pharmaceuticals, promising to deliver innovations that Discovery at the Holistic Drug Discovery and Development (H3D)
pharmaceutical and biotech enterprises, including Johnson &
can change the treatment landscape for drug-resistant infections Centre at the University of Cape Town in South Africa. This Satellite
Johnson, researchers will be able to use the AMR Register to
and advance the AMR Action Fund’s goal of bringing two to Center is working to drive new solutions to address the present and
four new antibiotics to market within a decade. Our $100 million rising threat of AMR with a specific focus on multidrug-resistant translate masses of AMR surveillance data into meaningful action
commitment to the Fund is helping advance toward this goal. Gram-negative bacteria (MDR-GNB). Teams from Janssen and that saves lives and preserves antibiotics for future generations.
H3D will leverage their combined global, institutional and regional
Advancing our ExPEC vaccine: ExPEC is one of the leading strengths to bolster the early stage science, innovation and Learn more about our progress in outpacing AMR.
pathogens in the AMR crisis. Last year, we initiated our Phase 3 talent development needed to tackle AMR. Research at the new
E.mbrace study to evaluate the efficacy, safety and immunogenicity Satellite Center will build on Johnson & Johnson’s decades of work
of a single injection of our investigational vaccine to prevent accelerating innovation—from the lab-to-last-mile of healthcare—
to outpace the threat of AMR.
45 WHO, “Antimicrobial resistance,” https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/antimicrobial-resistance, accessed February 2023. 46 IHME, “The Lancet: An estimated 1.2 million people died in 2019 from antibiotic-resistant bacterial infections, more 38
deaths than HIV/AIDS or malaria,” https://www.healthdata.org/news-release/lancet-estimated-12-million-people-died-2019-antibiotic-resistant-bacterial-infections, accessed February 2023.Healthcare Innovation GRI J&J22-6, J&J22-9
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Innovation has been an essential part of the fabric of Johnson & Johnson for more than 135 years. Thanks to
the incredible efforts of the tens of thousands of scientists, researchers, engineers, designers and clinicians,
we have pioneered multiple breakthroughs to profoundly change the trajectory of health for humanity.
We advance innovation at Johnson & Johnson across many channels,
as outlined in our Position on Innovation.
R&D Investment (Millions) Our new science facility in the Bay Area further
strengthens our R&D capabilities and transforms how
$14,714 $14,603 we discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines
faster and more efficiently. By integrating drug discovery,
data science and digital health, we aim to accelerate the
growth of our best-in-class portfolio and deliver better
$12,159
health outcomes for people worldwide.
$11,355
$10,775
Stacy Feld
Site Head, San Francisco Bay Campus and Regional Head,
Chairman and CEO Joaquin Duato and Janssen R&D employees at the opening of
Johnson & Johnson Innovation, West North America
the San Francisco Bay Campus. Photo by Orange Photography.
Healthcare Innovation 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
In 2022, we opened our latest state-of-the-art Janssen R&D facility,
more than doubling our R&D presence in the San Francisco Bay Throughout the world, we also expanded our J&J Centers for
Area. Located in one of the world’s most established global hubs Global Health Discovery that advance healthcare science, targeting
for innovation, the campus bridges key scientific and technological pressing challenges in global health in the regions of greatest need.
capabilities by co-locating Janssen R&D and Johnson & Johnson In 2022, we launched two Satellite Centers—one in South Africa
No company can thrive without innovation. For Innovation, further integrating the Company into the Bay Area’s to address the threat of AMR and one in Singapore to focus on
Johnson & Johnson, this is stating the obvious. With innovation ecosystem to strengthen and increase collaborations dengue and other flaviviruses.
an R&D investment of more than $14 billion in the past with innovators and accelerate growth.
year, we are walking the talk. This investment has a Learn more about our Global Health Discovery Centers and
dual benefit: patients globally gain access to the most about innovation across Johnson & Johnson Innovation, as well
as Janssen R&D.
advanced treatments and Johnson & Johnson continues
>63.6 billion
to have a leading impact in healthcare markets—currently,
with 30 brands or platforms that generate more than $1
invested in R&D over the past five years to deliver
billion of revenue annually, our investment in innovation healthcare innovation to advance Our Purpose and
continues to be a key element of our success. improve lives.
Joseph J. Wolk
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer,
Johnson & Johnson
39Pharmaceutical R&D
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Our Pharmaceutical R&D organization advances our purpose to change the trajectory of health Further advances in treating leukemia were also achieved in 2022,
with two significant approvals for IMBRUVICA (ibrutinib):
for humanity by pursuing breakthroughs across a wide range of therapeutic areas and biological
pathways, applying our expertise in small molecules, monoclonal antibodies, cell and gene therapies • EU marketing authorization was granted for the expanded use
of our IMBRUVICA (ibrutinib) in a fixed-duration combination
and RNA therapeutics.
regimen for adults with previously untreated chronic lymphocytic
leukemia. This marks the first-ever approval of IMBRUVICA in a
fixed-duration regimen for patients with this form of cancer.
We delivered numerous recent achievements across several agent and an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody. CARVYKTI is a
• FDA approval for IMBRUVICA (ibrutinib) was granted as the
therapeutic areas in 2022. chimeric antigen receptor T-cell (CAR-T) therapy that works by
first and only treatment for children under 12 with chronic graft-
harnessing the patient’s own immune system, or T-cells, to attack
versus-host disease (cGVHD), a life-threatening complication
cancer cells.
that can occur after a stem cell or bone marrow transplant, when
newly transplanted donor cells attack the transplant recipient’s
Learn more from stories from real patients treated with
body. Transplant is sometimes used to treat children with
CARVYKTI and their caregivers.
I have been following the innovations led by Johnson &
hemoglobin problems such as sickle cell anemia or thalassemia
Johnson’s pharmaceutical teams over many years, and I
and for children suffering from leukemia.
am deeply honored to have recently joined the talented • EU and FDA approvals of TECVAYLI (teclistamab), a novel,
first-in-class, T-cell redirecting bispecific antibody that activates
Pharmaceutical R&D team. Pharmaceutical innovation Additionally, Johnson & Johnson Innovation entered into new
the body’s immune system to fight cancer, were granted for the
is a critical component of global progress in healthcare, collaborations to advance research in specialist oncology fields:
treatment of patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma.
and Johnson & Johnson’s significant investments will
These milestones marked significant developments for heavily
• Seeking new cancer treatments: Janssen Oncology and
enable us to discover and develop transformational
Hangzhou DAC Biotechnology, a discovery and clinical stage
pre-treated patients who have limited treatment options today.
medicines that improve human health for the patients
biotechnology company, formed a research collaboration and
we serve around the world.
license agreement with an aim to discover and develop novel
Pharmaceutical R&D
antibody drug conjugate candidates for up to five targets
using DAC Biotechnology’s expertise and innovative platform
John Reed M.D., Ph.D. combined with Janssen Oncology’s proprietary antibodies. This
Given the heterogeneity of the disease, multiple
Executive Vice President, research collaboration will focus on prostate cancer, hematologic
myeloma is incredibly challenging to treat.
Pharmaceuticals, R&D malignancies and solid tumor targeted therapy to help maximize
Nonetheless, the dedication of those at Janssen
the impact of early stage research to meet the significant unmet
working to cure this disease has enabled the
need in cancer-related healthcare challenges.
conceptualization and execution of a rich R&D program
Oncology
that enabled a significant step forward for the entire • Optimizing CAR cell treatment: Janssen Biotech formed a
multiple myeloma community. research collaboration with Serotiny, a gene and cell therapy
In line with our strategy to address unique cellular targets through
development company, to leverage Serotiny’s multi-protein
immunotherapy treatment regimens, and our deep expertise in
domain discovery platform and Janssen’s antibody development
multiple myeloma, we realized breakthrough developments in
and cell therapy expertise to create next-generation CAR-based
multiple myeloma therapies in 2022, addressing high unmet Yusri Elsayed M.D., M.H.Sc., Ph.D.
cell therapies. This collaboration has the potential to advance
need to profoundly impact the lives of patients living with this Vice President, Hematologic Malignancies
scientific innovation to develop next-generation cellular therapies
form of cancer. Disease Area Leader, Janssen R&D
with improved therapeutic function and enhanced clinical benefit
• EU and FDA approval of CARVYKTI (ciltacabtagene autoleucel) that could positively impact the lives of patients and families.
was granted for the treatment of adults with relapsed or
• FDA breakthrough therapy designation was granted for
refractory multiple myeloma after four or more prior lines of
talquetamab, a first-in-class bispecific antibody for the treatment
therapy, including a proteasome inhibitor, an immunomodulatory
of heavily pretreated patients living with multiple myeloma.
402022 Health for
Immunology Building on our legacy of leadership in immunology innovation, Myasthenia gravis (MG): This is a highly debilitating, rare
Humanity Report
Janssen is investigating a targeted treatment, nipocalimab, autoantibody disease for which there currently is no cure
We seek to redefine the standard of care for people living with to address the underlying cause of antibody-driven disease. and which can be difficult to diagnose. We are investigating
immune-mediated diseases by focusing on unmet patient need Nipocalimab is being investigated in maternal fetal diseases, rare nipocalimab to address a range of serious autoantibody-mediated
and actionable science. Two key products for the autoimmune diseases and prevalent rheumatologic diseases, where unmet need diseases, including MG. Results from our Phase 2 study with
community, STELARA (ustekinumab) and TREMFYA (guselkumab), is high and, in some cases, no therapy is currently available. nipocalimab in patients with generalized myasthenia gravis (gMG)
made progress in 2022: showed a rapid, robust and sustained clinical response over
placebo. The Phase 3 trial in adults and Phase 2 study in children
• STELARA received FDA approval for treatment of pediatric
Neuroscience are underway.
patients aged six years and older with active psoriatic
arthritis (PsA).
Janssen intends to reconceptualize the diagnosis and treatment
• TREMFYA celebrated its five-year milestone of the approval of nervous system disorders with the aim to reduce the burden Cardiovascular, Metabolism & Retina
of this treatment for moderate to severe psoriasis. In 2022, and disability experienced by patients worldwide. Researchers
Janssen published a comprehensive analysis, demonstrating that at Janssen are pioneering multiple approaches in neuroscience The Cardiovascular, Metabolism & Retina therapeutic area covers
TREMFYA ranked highest among all approved therapies for skin to reduce the disability caused by serious neuropsychiatric, some of the most common causes of death, such as cardiovascular
clearance in the treatment of PsA. neurodegenerative and central nervous system autoantibody disease, and many other life-threatening conditions that
diseases while extending scientific advances in precision medicine: significantly impact overall health, including chronic kidney disease
We advanced critical research in immune-mediated inflammatory
and retinal diseases.
diseases (IMID) such as Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis (UC) and Alzheimer’s disease (AD): We are leading the way to revolutionize
PsA. We progressed our work studying oral cytokine inhibitors as AD with a differentiated tau portfolio that employs the latest In 2022, we announced the results of our Phase 2 AXIOMATIC-
a new form of treatment for people living with IMIDs with a Phase advancements in precision medicine, data science and digital Secondary Stroke Prevention study of milvexian, a novel oral
2b trial for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. health to use unique biomarkers to speed earlier diagnosis, drug anitcoagulant, which enrolled more than 2,000 patients with a
What’s more, our investigational novel combination therapy of development and decision making. primary ischemic stroke. Early stroke recurrence after ischemic
guselkumab (IL-23) and golimumab (TNF) also showed promising stroke remains a significant risk despite advances in secondary
Pharmaceutical R&D results for the treatment of UC. Our biomarker team developed and is evaluating a blood test to prevention. The data from the AXIOMATIC-Secondary Stroke
predict central amyloid positivity and tau status—indicators of
Prevention study showed an approximate 30% relative risk
AD—with high accuracy. We are also developing novel digital
reduction in recurrent symptomatic ischemic strokes and a
biomarkers in collaboration with leading technology firms. For
favorable safety profile in three arms of the study compared to
example, together with ki:elements, we are piloting speech
placebo. This suggests that milvexian has potential to improve
biomarker technology using AI and machine learning to identify
A pathway approach where you could potentially outcomes for stroke patients in clinical practice. These results,
abnormalities in speech patterns that may be predictive of
treat multiple diseases, rare or prevalent, with one along with findings from the AXIOMATIC-TKR study, set the stage
early disease.
mechanism is really exciting because you can bring a for our comprehensive Phase 3 program.
therapy to more patients, quicker and more efficiently.
Depression: Our neuroscience team is leading the charge against
We are very excited about the potential of nipocalimab We also received encouraging results from a Phase 1/2
the most serious forms of depression, a mental health condition
to bring relief to patients suffering from these study evaluating investigational gene therapy botaretigene
that places a heavy burden on society, affecting millions of patients
devastating diseases. sparoparvovec for the treatment of X-linked retinitis pigmentosa
worldwide. We launched the first new mechanism in decades,
(XLRP), a rare condition that causes progressive vision loss, starting
SPRAVATO (esketamine) CIII nasal spray, for use in conjunction
in childhood with night blindness and leading to legal blindness by
with an oral antidepressant in March 2019 for adults with treatment
middle age. Using gene therapy approaches we are also advancing
Katie Abouzahr M.D. resistant depression, and in August 2020 for depressive symptoms
candidate therapeutics for common ocular diseases, including
Vice President, Portfolio Development Leader, in adults with major depressive disorder (MDD) with acute suicidal
geographic atrophy.
Autoantibody, Janssen R&D
ideation or behavior. In addition, Janssen is advancing drug
candidates with novel mechanisms of action for depression, including
aticaprant and seltorexant. Altogether, these efforts aim to provide
patients with more potential options for combating depression.
41MedTech Innovation
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
For more than a century, we have harnessed the power of technology and breakthrough innovation
to elevate new standards of care. In surgery, orthopaedics, heart rhythm disorders, eye health,
neurovascular care and other fields, we help save and improve lives and create a future where
healthcare solutions are smarter, less invasive, and more personalized.
In a period of expansion and innovation, J&J MedTech delivered • DePuy Synthes specializes in orthopaedics solutions to help heal • Ethicon continued to advance a next-generation treatment option
more than 30 significant product launches in the past two years, and restore movement for millions of patients. In China, working for lung tumors to minimize the impact of surgery for patients
bringing advanced medical technologies to more people around with Johnson & Johnson’s 3D Printing Group, DePuy Synthes is and allow for speedier recovery. Ethicon’s solution is through
the world. bringing to the Chinese market a highly personalized 3D-printed transbronchial microwave ablation using its NEUWAVE FLEX
cranial implant made from a thermoplastic polymer. 3D execution Microwave Ablation System guided by its MONARCH Platform.
enables the availability of these critical implants at a much lower Ethicon’s clinical trial for patients with lung tumors, the POWER
cost and with shorter lead times than implants manufactured study, aims to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of
traditionally to help ensure that every surgery is safe, precise and this innovative approach. In December 2022, a milestone was
J&J MedTech has nurtured the connection between time efficient. Production of the cranial implants is now up and achieved with the first patient successfully treated as part of the
healthcare professionals and the latest technologies running at the DePuy Synthes Suzhou Manufacturing Plant. POWER study.
to improve and save lives. R&D is at the forefront of
Toward the close of December 2022, we completed our acquisition
patient care, uniquely positioned as a catalyst that can
of Abiomed, Inc., a world leader in heart recovery solutions and
drive and scale progress.
the creator of the world’s first totally implantable artificial heart.
Abiomed brings a rich history of innovation in cardiovascular care
that complements our existing leadership in the diagnosis and
Ahmet Tezel treatment of cardiac arrhythmias through our Biosense Webster
MedTech Innovation
Company Group Chairman and Global Head electrophysiology business.
of MedTech Innovation and R&D, Johnson & Johnson
Advancing treatment of stroke: We collaborate with physicians and
academics and invest in scientific research to advance the treatment
New patient-centered innovation: Across our wide range of of ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke. Stroke is a leading cause of
innovative surgical technologies and solutions for patients and death with 15 million people worldwide affected by stroke annually.47
HCPs, we seek continuous improvement to deliver better patient In 2022, Cerenovus, a J&J MedTech company, launched the
outcomes with safety, efficiency and reliability. Examples from EMBOGUARD Balloon Guide Catheter as part of the CERENOVUS
2022 include: A 3D-printed cranial plate sample produced by Johnson & Johnson’s Stroke Solutions suite of technologies. EMBOGUARD is designed to
3D Printing Group.
optimize the removal of blood clots by controlling blood flow locally
• Part of J&J MedTech’s DePuy Synthes’ VELYS Digital Surgery
during thrombectomy procedures. Balloon guide catheters have
Platform, CUPTIMIZE Hip-Spine Analysis is the latest surgical
• J&J MedTech’s Ethicon franchise received FDA clearance for been shown to increase the ability to restore blood flow after one
planning feature in VELYS Hip Navigation. It is a simple, x-ray-
urology procedures using the MONARCH Endoscopic Robotic pass, reduce procedure time, and reduce the odds of clot fragments
based digital tool that uses patient specific data to help surgeons
Platform. MONARCH is now the first and only multispecialty, breaking off and causing new ischemic events.48
assess dislocation risk and identify patients with abnormal pelvic
flexible robotic solution for use in both bronchoscopy and urology.
tilt who may require unique cup placement or dual mobility design.
47 WHO, “Stroke, Cerebrovascular accident,” https://www.emro.who.int/health-topics/stroke-cerebrovascular-accident/index.html, accessed April 2023. 48 J&J MedTech, “CERENOVUS Launches EMBOGUARD™ Balloon Guide Catheter 42
to Use In the Treatment of Acute Ischemic Stroke,” https://www.jnjmedtech.com/en-US/news-events/cerenovus-launches-emboguard-balloon-guide-catheter-use-treatment-acute-ischemic.2022 Health for
Preventing and treating atrial fibrillation (AFib): We advanced • In April 2022, Biosense Webster announced that the first patients • Biosense Webster built the largest online patient community with
Humanity Report
solutions to address AFib with new products, research and were enrolled in the admIRE clinical trial in the U.S. to evaluate the global Get Smart About AFib campaign. In the U.S. alone, there
awareness efforts to inform and help patients, including: the safety and effectiveness of the company’s investigational are more than 100,000 participants. This effort is dedicated to
• In Europe, Biosense Webster launched its first radiofrequency Pulsed Field Ablation (PFA) platform, the principal components of educating patients, caregivers and healthcare providers about AFib
balloon ablation catheter, HELIOSTAR, to enable physicians which are the VARIPULSE catheter and the TRUPULSE generator, signs, symptoms and treatment options, including catheter ablation.
for the treatment of AFib. PFA represents a new approach to
in Europe to advance safe, effective and efficient treatment
treating AFib, utilizing a controlled electric field—instead of
solutions for patients suffering from AFib. In Europe, catheter
thermal energy—to ablate and treat cardiac tissue, which could
ablation is a recommended first-line treatment option.49
be an exciting advance for physicians and patients and may have
• OCTARAY Mapping Catheter was launched for mapping cardiac a variety of benefits. Biosense Webster is working to bring a
arrhythmias, including AFib, to assist physicians in capturing versatile portfolio of PFA solutions—complementary to our
Starlight Action is a long-term education project on
precise information for catheter ablation procedures with RF catheter portfolio—to address various ablation strategies in
enhanced clarity and speed. cardiovascular and cerebrovascular health, which
the treatment of AFib.
aims to pull strengths of all parties to popularize
• J&J MedTech company Biosense Webster, progressed research AFib-related knowledge and advocate a healthy
into AFib patient behaviors in North America to help inform lifestyle for the entire population.
ways to support AFib prevention and treatment by physicians
and patients. Biosense Webster’s AFib PulseCheck Survey
With more splines and electrodes, the increased
among adults diagnosed with AFib revealed that, despite fears
surface area coverage and improved signal quality with
and anxiety about AFib, patients delayed seeking treatment, Sun Zhiwei
the OCTARAY Mapping Catheter allows me to better
and many ended up in the emergency room due to AFib. These Chairman, Beijing Bethune Charitable Foundation
understand the anatomy and conduction properties of
insights provide clues as to how best to promote AFib behavior
the chamber of interest.
change, especially among high-risk patients.
• In China, Biosense Webster supported a new Starlight AFib
Public Awareness Campaign to help popularize knowledge on the
Dr. Amit Thosani prevention and treatment of AFib. As the top cause of death for
MedTech Innovation
Director of Cardiac Electrophysiology, the elderly, cardiovascular diseases are becoming a major health
Allegheny Health Network
threat to Chinese people.
AFib is the most frequent cardiac arrhythmia. It has been
estimated that 6 to 12 million people worldwide will suffer
with this condition in the U.S. by 2050 and 17.9 million people
in Europe by 2060.50
49 Hindricks G, Potpara T, Dagres N, et al, “2020 ESC Guidelines for the diagnosis and management of atrial fibrillation developed in
collaboration with the European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery (EACTS),” Euro Heart J, 2021 Feb 1;42(5):373-498, https://
pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32860505, accessed February 2023. 50 Lippi G, Sanchis-Gomar S, and Cervallin G, “Global epidemiology of
atrial fibrillation: An increasing epidemic and public health challenge,” Int J Stroke, 2021 Feb;16(2):217-221, https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih. 43
gov/31955707, accessed February 2023.Data Science & Digital Health
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
At Johnson & Johnson, we view innovation in data science and digital health as a critical engine of our clinical trials and subsequently deployed for screening patients
across clinical sites. This marks an important advancement in
long-term business success and the foundation of our positive contribution to sustainable development
medicine and data science, demonstrating the potential for more
and an equitable and inclusive society.
rapid, optimized care for patients in need.
• Early detection of pulmonary hypertension (PH): The FDA
granted Breakthrough Device Designation for an AI-enhanced,
Across our sectors, we combine innovative technologies with data science projects spanning our top development portfolio assets,
Pulmonary Hypertension Early Detection Algorithm, developed
leading science to deliver care in groundbreaking new ways. With we are driving transformational innovation and impact for patients.
in collaboration between Janssen; Anumana, a health technology
a vast and diverse portfolio of digitally powered treatments and
company; and Mayo Clinic. The algorithm is a precise, non-
solutions, we aim to keep people well at every age and stage of life.
invasive screening tool that could help address the unmet need
for earlier diagnosis of patients with PH, which may otherwise
go unnoticed until the disease has advanced to the point of
limiting treatment efficacy. Downloadable by a physician to a digital
At Johnson & Johnson, we are continually evolving device or accessed via the cloud, the algorithm will be accessible
We shape the future of healthcare by unlocking how we innovate to stretch the boundaries of what’s for broad-scale use in early detection of PH, if approved.
the power of people, technology and insights. Just possible. We’re combining the latest in data science
as doctors use scalpels and stethoscopes, we use and digital health with our deep expertise in science
• Engaging patients remotely to study immune-mediated
skin conditions: We launched a remote immunodermatology
connected data, automation, AI and robotics to change to develop game-changing solutions that tackle some
observational study to capture more than 100,000 images from
patients’ lives. Through digital, we build more agile, of the toughest health challenges—all with the goal
patients living with immune-mediated skin diseases to support
adaptive, efficient and sustainable processes across of improving patient outcomes and changing the
the development of AI algorithms needed for creating objective
our business, and we apply tech for good to further trajectory of healthcare.
measures of disease severity on diverse skin types. In our study,
advance health and well-being for people around
patients used their smartphone to capture photos of their skin
the world.
over time, creating a unique data set with the volume required for
Najat Khan, Ph.D.
detailed analysis. Currently, the severity of immune-mediated skin
Data Science & Digital Health Chief Data Science Officer and Global Head,
conditions is measured by doctors using the naked eye, which
Strategy & Operations, Janssen R&D
Jim Swanson may lead to high variability in severity assessment. In this digitally
Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer, enabled remote study, we are generating new ways of assessing
Johnson & Johnson
The application of data science and digital health in our immune-mediated skin conditions, enabling improved treatment
pharmaceutical R&D programs is helping to transform how we solutions in the future. Moreover, by offering the ability to assess
innovate. Examples from among the many ways that AI, ML and skin conditions remotely, technology is helping to reduce the
Data science and digital health in other data science methods are being leveraged include: burden on patients who otherwise would be required to take time
Pharmaceutical R&D from work and family to visit a doctor’s office or clinical center.
• Bladder cancer trial recruitment: Janssen established a
This is one example of how Johnson & Johnson is leveraging
collaboration with Paige, a global leader in clinical AI applications
The potential of data science and digital health to revolutionize digital tools to help improve clinical trial diversity by reducing the
in pathology, to deploy a first-of-its-kind, AI-powered biomarker
healthcare is immense. As the largest, most diversified healthcare burden of participation in clinical studies.
test, developed by Janssen, to screen for the presence of certain
products company, Johnson & Johnson is using data science
alterations in the fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) genes
and digital health to reimagine the discovery and development
in patients with advanced urothelial cancer, also known as
of medicines and advance our mission of bringing transformative
bladder cancer. The goal is to provide physicians with insights
treatments and vaccines to patients around the world. These
to help tailor patients’ treatment plans and facilitate clinical trial
methods are fundamentally shaping the way we think, work and
recruitment. The biomarker test was validated through Janssen
solve problems across our R&D portfolio. Through more than 100
442022 Health for
• Enabling healthcare self-management: In 2022, we developed Empowering our teams for digital innovation
Humanity Report
a disease-agnostic, digital health platform and initiated the first
clinical study utilizing the platform in collaboration with the As a large and diverse organization, applying digital tools across
University of Nairobi (UoN) and local tech company, the Savannah many dimensions of our work in digital health and processes, we
Healthcare has a new place on the world’s map. In
Global Health Institute. The platform, called myCareHub, is invest in sharing our work and progress internally, encouraging
times of crisis, our industry demonstrated that we
being tested with young people living with HIV in Kenya and learning and reapplication of successful ideas and creating
can unify the world with a common purpose. We
was integrated into the clinical sites managed by UoN under the awareness for the latest technologies among our teams. In 2022,
have brought together the best minds in science,
Kenyan health system. It was developed to educate, empower Johnson & Johnson’s Data Science Council published its internal
engineering, supply chain, and public health to meet
and provide remote support for patients to manage their own Data Science Business Impact Report showcasing the most
the evolving needs of patients and health systems
health by linking their medical records into a secure digital compelling examples of how teams from R&D, commercial, supply
around the world – and we won’t stop here. J&J
vehicle, facilitating engagement with their HCP and connections chain and Enterprise functions are working to make the promise
MedTech will continue to deliver innovation and
to other patients. Janssen has made myCareHub available via a and potential of data science a reality.
advance a more modern, connected, digitally-enabled
non-exclusive, royalty-free license to UoN. The experience
and representative health system – with the patient at
We also held our annual Janssen R&D Data Science & Digital Health
gained will help guide further development of the platform and
the center.
Symposium, bringing together more than 2,000 colleagues for two
lay a foundation for potential future implementation across
days of discussion and presentations on how Janssen R&D is using
other regions.
data science and digital health as a transformational force in medicine
and for patients. More than 75 data science and digital health projects
Ashley McEvoy
were showcased at the Symposium, and more than 200 speakers,
Delivering medical technology intelligence Executive Vice President, Worldwide Chairman,
MedTech, Johnson & Johnson including experts from across industry, startups and academia as well
The future of medical technology will be smarter, less invasive, and as Johnson & Johnson executives, shared their insights.
more personalized. Digital technology is helping enable this future,
delivering data intelligence for personalized patient outcomes,
• Improving efficiency and accuracy of knee surgery: DePuy
Synthes uses ML to right-size total knee arthroplasty (TKA) and
more focused precision and efficiency in the operating room and
total hip arthroplasty (THA) implants. By creating and deploying
accelerated innovation across the industry. Advanced analytics
ML-driven predictions for TKA and THA procedures using direct
and data science practices are impacting the medtech industry, We want our employees to be fluent in the language
customer electronic medical records, DePuy Synthes can tailor
Data Science & Digital Health as connected devices, robotics and software solutions generate of data science. We can only achieve this goal through
the list of required components to meet the need of each specific
valuable, connected data. In MedTech, we are embracing the personalized learning and development opportunities
surgery, rather than delivering all possible standard sizes. This
power of data science to transform the way we help deliver more that support the upskilling of critical capabilities
makes surgery coordination more efficient and accurate.
personalized healthcare for better patient outcomes, as well as the needed to be most effective in an increasingly
way we run our business. • Automating imaging for improved eye disease diagnosis: digital world.
• Improving AFib treatment: Due to the complexity of AFib and Using a custom-designed, ML- and AI-driven device, Johnson &
a myriad of decentralized data, cardiac electrophysiologists Johnson Vision has automated the processing of meibomian gland
and manufacturers struggle to generate consistent results (MG) imaging, leading to better understanding of a patient’s MG Peter Fasolo, Ph.D.
across patients and operators. Biosense Webster introduced disease. MGs produce meibum, an oily substance that prevents Executive Vice President, Chief Human
CARTONET, the first cloud-based data management system that evaporation of the eye’s tear film, necessary for full eye health. Resources Officer, Johnson & Johnson
has the potential to improve procedure efficiency and outcomes. Connecting the new device to Johnson & Johnson Vision’s
Using a deep learning algorithm, CARTONET evaluates patterns, LIPISCAN imager enables consistent evaluation of a patient’s MG
enabling physicians to assess their performance more easily. disease based on real-world outcomes, enabling better diagnosis
CARTONET is compatible with CARTO, Biosense Webster’s and medical intervention.
3D mapping system that integrates all our electrophysiology
mapping and ablation catheters.
45Innovation Through Collaboration
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Johnson & Johnson Innovation accelerates early stage innovation through strategic partnership. Seoul Innovation QuickFire Challenge: In September 2022, Seoul
Innovation QuickFire Challenge awardees siRNAgen Therapeutics
By connecting the best science and technology entrepreneurs to our global resources and
and Portrai were recognized at the Seoul International Biomedical
expertise, we take on the world’s toughest healthcare challenges and aim to improve the health
Conference. To help advance their science, both companies received
of everyone, everywhere. KRW 75,000,000 in grant funding, two years of residency at the
Seoul Bio Hub, access to Johnson & Johnson Innovation’s APAC
ecosystem and mentorship from experts across Johnson & Johnson.
We connect potential collaborators to world-leading resources In 2022, 10 new QuickFire Challenges were launched
and aim to support them to advance transformation science and and four challenges from 2021 were completed.
technology across the spectrum of pharmaceutical, medical
devices and consumer healthcare. Similarly, we collaborate Our Advancing Health Equity QuickFire Challenge received
widely across many groups, partnerships, consortia and research submissions focused on enabling inclusive clinical trial design
agreements to accelerate progress in ways that no company can and equitable clinical decision making, implementing community-
achieve alone. based early diagnostics and education of patients and providers
to advance health equity. Three awardees received grant funding
from a total pool of $400,000, access to the global JLABS network
and mentorship from experts across Johnson & Johnson.
QuickFire Challenge awardees in 2022 included 35%
As we prepare for the future, we at Johnson & Johnson
women-led teams and 20% teams led by people of color. Promoting diversity in healthcare startups: Through our
feel our efforts will require new ideas, a new generation
Four QuickFire Challenges launched in 2022 were specifically Johnson & Johnson Innovation ecosystem, we are empowering
of entrepreneurs and the deployment of new tools for
health equity focused, with grant funding from a total pool healthcare startups to embrace DEI in the early stages of their
scientific inquiry to generate, aggregate and analyze
of $1.55 million awarded to 14 teams. company’s life—when they are creating their identity, research
data; develop insights; and test hypotheses that could
focus and approach, and culture. To this end, in 2022, we introduced
inform the development of new ways to prevent,
Our 2022 Maternal-Fetal Immune Disorders QuickFire Challenge: the Johnson & Johnson Innovation Health Equity Assessment
intercept and cure disease.
Innovating for Health Equity sought to improve immune-mediated Tool (HEAT) to more than 550 Johnson & Johnson Innovation
Innovation Through Collaboration
pregnancy outcomes in mothers and children from BIPOC collaborating companies as a voluntary survey designed to help early
communities. The challenge awarded a total of $500,000 in grant stage innovators benchmark their health equity maturity and how
William N. Hait, M.D., Ph.D. funding to two promising organizations that aim to advance health they are considering health disparities in their company leadership,
Executive Vice President, Chief External Innovation and equity by addressing unmet medical needs in pregnancy care. potential healthcare solutions and delivery. The self-assessment
Medical Officer, Johnson & Johnson
is paired with the Johnson & Johnson Innovation Health Equity
Our 2022 Vets QuickFire Challenge: Lung Cancer & Physical e-Learning Module to raise awareness and help establish a baseline
Trauma reflected our commitment to keeping veterans healthy understanding before completion. The e-Learning Module is also
Activating health innovators and entrepreneurs through our JLABS
and advancing healthcare innovation for the benefit of the military available to the public.
QuickFire Challenges is an effective way to advance research and
community. The Challenge sought ideas to directly address the
practical innovation to address a range of unmet medical needs.
unique healthcare needs of the military community, including lung We also introduced the Johnson & Johnson Innovation Board Fellows
The QuickFire Challenge is a crowdsourcing platform committed to
cancer and physical trauma, and made grants totaling $500,000 program, a one-year, multifaceted education, executive coaching and
identifying and cultivating potential health solutions to change the
to six awardees, three focusing on lung cancer and three offering mentorship program that will help strengthen our diverse candidacy
trajectory of healthcare.
solutions to address physical trauma. for potential board leadership positions. In June 2022, the inaugural
class of five Johnson & Johnson Innovation Board Fellows began their
Many QuickFire Challenges champion health equity by seeking to
one-year program. The Board Fellows are paired with JJDC mentors
identify potential solutions that serve historically under-resourced
to help them further understand developmental opportunities and
communities and reaching a wide range of diverse scientists,
achieve their full potential as potential Board Directors.
researchers and innovators from around the world.
46Diversity, Equity & Inclusion in Clinical Trials
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Johnson & Johnson has made diversity, equity and inclusion in clinical trials a priority to help create Janssen Oncology provided a $5 million grant to Stand Up To
Cancer, a nonprofit organization supporting cancer research, to
transformational therapies that work for all patients.
support the development of innovative approaches to removing
barriers to clinical trial participation for patients of all racial and
ethnic backgrounds, as well as patients in medically under-
An important step on our journey to achieving health equity is In 2022, our DEICT team completed a clinical trial diversity plan
resourced communities.
ensuring everyone has the opportunity to participate in clinical across all Janssen’s therapeutic areas that includes supporting local
research, should it be right for them. markets and a metrics reporting dashboard to help guide further
progress. This approach also aligns with anticipated FDA initiatives
Underrepresented populations face a variety of barriers that
to expand action and disclosure on clinical trial diversity. Within
impact clinical trial enrollment, including fear and mistrust, lack of
Janssen, different research teams demonstrate their commitment
awareness and logistical challenges. Through structured processes As one of the leading funders in cancer research, Stand
in each area. For example, the Janssen Immunology DEI Working
to examine and advance DEI in clinical trials, including multiple Up To Cancer believes it is critical to ensure that the
Group formulated its specific DEI strategy and made progress
partnerships for enhancing awareness and building trust among lack of diverse representation in cancer clinical trials is
by hiring racially and ethnically diverse leaders for Janssen R&D,
under-resourced and underrepresented communities, we hope to addressed. This is a national imperative that we cannot
enhancing culturally relevant training, hosting speaker events
change the trajectory of health disparities in clinical research. turn away from. We need fresh ideas that help to innovate
on racial and ethnic disparities in healthcare and engaging in
and redesign the cancer clinical research enterprise to
innovation and partnerships to promote inclusive research.
According to the FDA, 75% of clinical trial participants for include communities that have long been left out.
new molecular entities and therapeutic biologics approved Janssen was one of the first organizations to proactively submit a
in 2020 were white, 8% were Black or African American, 6% diversity plan to the FDA for an oncology trial, well ahead of the
were Asian and 11% were Hispanic.51 regulatory body’s new guidance on initiatives to expand action
Russell Chew
and disclosure on clinical trial diversity. The FDA’s commitment to
In 2022, our Janssen Diversity, Equity & Inclusion in Clinical
President and CEO, Stand Up To Cancer
prioritizing diversity in clinical research has the potential to better
Trials (DEICT) team created a template to embed diversity into
connect regulatory approaches with the industry’s broader health
the clinical trial process. The template is relevant for all Janssen Janssen Oncology provided a grant of $3 million to the American
equity goals, which will help Janssen deliver on its mission to
therapeutic areas and covers dimensions of diversity including race, Cancer Society to fund its Navigating Patients Across the Care and
create a future where disease is a thing of the past.
ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation and socioeconomic factors. Treatment Continuum program. Janssen’s contribution will support
Using this template, and insights from Janssen’s Research Includes Improving representation in cancer clinical trials: Janssen collaboration with 20 health systems over three years, enhancing
DEI in Clinical Trials Me initiative, equitable representation in clinical trials can be Oncology supports enhancing clinical research capabilities in the oncology patient experience and addressing barriers to
strengthened. Africa through collaboration with the African Access Initiative enrollment for underrepresented or marginalized communities.
(AAI), a public-private partnership driven by the BIO Ventures for
Research Includes Me meets communities where they are with
Global Health, a nonprofit that accelerates R&D for poverty-related Accelerating diversity in MedTech research: J&J MedTech is
educational materials, connects patients to current trials and
diseases in Africa and addresses the disparity in representation of taking steps to improve meaningful representation in clinical
partners with advocacy groups to understand these communities’
Africans in cancer clinical trials. Janssen Oncology’s support for studies leading to better products and better outcomes. In 2022,
needs and build trust in the safety of clinical trials and the healthcare
AAI began in 2022 with the initial assessment of access to cancer we developed our policy position on Diversity in Research & Clinical
system overall. In 2022, Research Includes Me connected more
care in 10 hospitals in five African countries, patient education and Trials (U.S.) outlining our call for policies that reduce barriers
than 84 million people to messages on the importance of diverse
community awareness programs, as well as training programs for to participation. We also continue to support the ‘Diversifying
representation in clinical research through its website, co-hosted
more than 2,000 HCPs on cancer diagnosis and treatment. Investigations Via Equitable Research Studies for Everyone
and multilingual events and participation at community events with
(DIVERSE) Trials Act’, introduced in the U.S. House and Senate in
Mobile Health vans.
2021, which provides expanded legal authority for companies to
diversify their clinical trials. As a founding sponsor of MedTech
Learn more about Research Includes Me.
Color, J&J MedTech helps advance the representation of persons
of color in the medtech industry.
51 Drug Trials Snapshots Report (2020), https://www.fda.gov/media/145718/download, accessed February 2023. 47Consumer Health GRI J&J22-11
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
In 2021, we announced our intention to separate Johnson & Johnson’s Consumer Health business Supporting smoking cessation: NICORETTE brought the first
nicotine replacement therapy to market more than 40 years ago
and to create a new publicly traded company that would take its place as a leader at the
and—backed by more than 50 years of research and innovation—
intersection of healthcare and consumer goods.
remains committed to eradicating smoking. In 2022, Johnson &
Johnson Consumer Health continued to support smoking cessation
by joining the launch event of the WHO Tobacco Cessation
The new company, named Kenvue, is committed to helping Alongside preparation to establish Kenvue as a standalone Consortium. The Consortium is a public-private coalition to support
consumers realize the extraordinary power of everyday care. At company, Johnson & Johnson Consumer Health has advanced its the WHO’s work on tobacco cessation worldwide. Our participation
Kenvue, combining the power of science with meaningful human mission to improve total health for all—for individuals at every age in this consortium builds on NICORETTE’s previous support of the
insights and digital-first capabilities empowers more than one billion and stage of life, for communities and for our planet. Supported by WHO’s Access Initiative to Quit Tobacco, which delivered positive
people to live healthier lives every day. Kenvue’s portfolio of iconic an $800 million investment, our Healthy Lives Mission aims to: results in terms of smokers who quit completely. NICORETTE has
brands is built for moments that uniquely matter to consumers and • fight preventable diseases through impactful education and donated more than $1.5 million worth of NICORETTE patches to
drives positive health outcomes around the world. partnerships, starting with smoking cessation and skin cancer help people quit smoking.
prevention;
Thibaut Mongon, formerly the Worldwide Chairman, Consumer Only 30% of the world’s 1.3 billion tobacco users have access
Health for Johnson & Johnson, serves as Chief Executive Officer • enhance product transparency to help consumers make more to the tools to help them to quit successfully.53
of Kenvue. We remain on track to complete the separation in 2023, informed choices about personal health products; and
subject to market conditions. Advocating for menstrual dignity: In 2022, STAYFREE joined
• improve the sustainability of our products and operations by
UNICEF for another year to promote education about menstrual
using more recycled materials, making packaging easier to recycle
The name Kenvue is inspired by two powerful ideas: “ken,” hygiene and address menstrual poverty in Brazil.
or reuse and powering operations with renewable electricity.
meaning knowledge, and “vue,” referencing sight. With rich
knowledge of human needs and deep consumer insights, Progress in advancing our Healthy Lives Mission in 2022 included: More than 11 million people are directly affected by menstrual
Kenvue will deliver meaningful, personal health solutions. poverty in Brazil, and 94% of low-income women do not know
Promoting skin cancer awareness: Neutrogena’s In the Sun what menstrual poverty is.54
in-school program brought skin cancer prevention awareness to
more than 150,000 students across the U.S. throughout 2021 and Access to menstrual hygiene is a public health issue, as well as a
2022. Following the release of Neutrogena Studios’ award-winning, human rights issue, according to the UN.55 Many women, especially
feature-length documentary film, In the Sun, in 2021 to elevate those in low-income regions, live in menstrual poverty, which means
awareness and understanding of sun safety and skin cancer for all lack of basic access to buy hygiene products and often lack of
Consumer Health
skin types and colors, more than 2,000 schools have participated in access to water and sanitation. In 2022, STAYFREE joined UNICEF
the in-school education program over two years. Feedback from the for another year to address menstrual poverty in Brazil. Between
in-school program amongst school students surveyed is that 55% of 2021 and 2022, STAYFREE donated two sanitation pads in menstrual
students said they will change their sun safety habits as a result of hygiene kits distributed by UNICEF to 45,000 teenagers in Brazil
watching the film. and supported educational outreach widely across the country. Also,
in India, STAYFREE continued its “It’s just a period” campaign to
Globally in 2020, more than 1.5 million cases of skin cancers
normalize the topic of menstruation in India, leveraging Daughters
were diagnosed and more than 120,000 skin cancer-associated
Day for a second year as an occasion to destigmatize the first period
deaths were reported.52
experience, especially in many households where menstruation
is still considered taboo, by educating and involving other family
Kenvue, the planned new Johnson & Johnson Consumer Health company, members for support.
announces its purpose: Realize the Extraordinary Power of Everyday Care.
52 WHO, “Ultraviolet radiation,” https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/ultraviolet-radiation, accessed February 2023. 53 WHO, “WHO Director-General approves tobacco cessation consortium,” https://www.who.int/news/item/05-11-2021-
tobacco-cessation-consortium, accessed February 2023. 54 According to research commissioned by STAYFREE, in partnership with the Kyra Institute and MosaicLab, 2021. 55 UN WOMEN, “Towards gender equality through sanitation access,” https://www. 48
unwomen.org/en/digital-library/publications/2016/3/towards-gender-equality-through-sanitation-access, accessed February 2023.2022 Health for
Expanding product transparency for consumers: Johnson & In alignment with our target to eliminate 100% of polystyrene jars Collaborating for greater impact: Johnson & Johnson Consumer
Humanity Report
Johnson Consumer Health expanded its product transparency and black plastic bottles from our global portfolio, we ceased Health collaborates with industry peers, NGOs and suppliers to
dashboard across several of our leading Consumer Health brands, sourcing packaging components with this resin material in 2022. advance our sustainability and transparency objectives. Some of our
helping empower consumers to make informed choices about the In addition, we improved the sustainability of several products partnerships and collaborations in 2022 included:
personal care products they use and rely on. Our transparency and packaging, including:
dashboard for consumers, launched in 2021, includes product- • The Animal-Free Safety Assessment (AFSA) Collaboration is a
• LISTERINE and OGX introduced innovative product formats,
forum that brings the collective voice of nonprofit and industry
specific information about ingredients, science and sustainability
including mouthwash concentrates and shampoo bars, that
leaders together in support of education and advocacy to help
to meet consumer needs. In 2022, we expanded the product
reduce the need for packaging.
eliminate the need for animal testing for cosmetics.
transparency dashboard across several of our Consumer Health
brands, tailoring information to the needs of consumers on a • AVEENO, NEUTROGENA, JOHNSON’s Baby and LE PETIT • The EcoBeautyScore Consortium, an industry-led collaboration
MARSEILLAIS launched reuse and refill solutions to reduce
brand-by-brand basis. JOHNSON’S Baby also unveiled this of more than 60 companies and associations to help consumers
plastic use compared to existing packaging.
dashboard in leading global markets outside the U.S., namely understand the environmental impact of cosmetic and personal
Brazil, Canada and the UK. • o.b. introduced organic tampons made with 100% certified care products through the launch of an environmental scoring
organic cotton and are 100% plastic free from top to string. system for cosmetic products to help inform consumer
Improving packaging sustainability: We are advancing our Healthy
purchasing decisions.
Lives Mission by taking important steps to reduce the environmental • CAREFREE launched Organic Cotton Topsheet Liners with
impact of our personal care product packaging by using less virgin 100% certified organic cotton topsheet. • More than 160 companies and organizations across the packaging
value chain, as part of the Digital Watermarks Initiative HolyGrail
plastic and increasing our use of recycled materials while improving
Several brands in our portfolio also increased the use of PCR
2.0, plan to assess whether a pioneering digital watermarking
the recyclability and reusability of our packaging. These efforts
plastic packaging materials and Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®)-
technology can enable better sorting and higher-quality recycling
align with our Consumer Health Packaging targets and support our
certified paperboard.
rates for packaging in the EU.
participation as a signatory to the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s New
Plastics Economy Global Commitment.
Additionally, to advance a circular economy and packaging
sustainability, we continued our collaboration with several
organizations, including the Consumer Goods Forum’s Plastics Waste
Coalition of Action, the Closed Loop Infrastructure Fund and the
Consumer Health Sustainable Packaging Targets
A*STAR Institute of Materials Research and Engineering Circular
Materials Lab, helping to develop new global industry design rules
Eliminate 100% Reduce our total
for sustainable packaging, expand the recycling infrastructure in
of polystyrene jars and black annual use
plastic bottles from our global of virgin plastics in packaging North America and research circular flexible film packaging solutions
Consumer Health portfolio by 2022. weight by 25% by 2025 respectively.
compared to 2020, achieved
Use 100% through a combination of
recyclable, reusable or recycled plastic, plastic
compostable plastic packaging reductions and
packaging by 2025. more reuse models.
Learn more about Consumer Health advances in
Use 100%
sustainable manufacturing and in environmental health.
certified or post-consumer
recycled (PCR) paper and pulp-
based packaging by 2025.
Learn more about our progress as a signatory to the Ellen MacArthur
Foundation’s New Plastics Economy Global Commitment.
492022 Health for
Humanity Report Our Employees
5500
Employees Tiffani H. and Renee E. collaborate at our Tampa Global Services site.Employee Attraction & Development GRI 401-1, 401-2, 401-3, 404-2, 404-3, SASB HC-BP-330a.1, SASB HC-BP-330a.2
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Our employees at Johnson & Johnson around the world continue to be energized by Our Purpose Employee attraction
to blend heart, science and ingenuity to profoundly change the trajectory of health for humanity.
Our recruitment efforts include outreach through a wide range
Every single one of our employees can make a difference—and with approximately 153,700
of channels and partners to encourage a diverse representation
individuals in all corners of the globe—that adds up to a huge impact. of top qualified candidates. Employee referrals again generated
a significant proportion of our hiring efforts, demonstrating
employee confidence in Johnson & Johnson as an attractive
workplace. Other areas of progress related to employee attraction
Attracting, developing, retaining and inspiring the best people Global Workforce by Region*
and development in 2022 included:
globally is crucial to all aspects of Johnson & Johnson’s business.
Employee Attraction & Development
We promote a culture of respect, inclusion and excellence, 31,322
Inspiring people to return to work after a career break: Re-Ignite
inspired by Our Credo, so that the talent of every individual at
51,829 is Johnson & Johnson’s global career reentry program that offers
Johnson & Johnson can be leveraged to ensure our Company, our
experienced professionals who have taken a break from their
communities and our environment, and each of us as individuals,
career for two or more years the opportunity to return to the
can thrive and grow.
workforce with specialized onboarding, networking and development
activities. In addition to its ambition to support women in returning to
44,473 STEM2D professions, Re-Ignite is a gender-inclusive program that, in
2022, officially expanded its focus to include returning professionals
26,053
both in and outside of STEM2D roles.
By anticipating and developing critical capabilities
across Johnson & Johnson, we can help accelerate Asia Pacific Europe, Middle East & Africa Since its inception in 2017, Re-Ignite enabled professionals in
business outcomes today and further future-proof our
Latin America North America 13 countries across all four regions to return to the Johnson &
organization for any tomorrow. To do this effectively,
Johnson workplace where they can continue their careers in
we must create meaningful, personalized learning
meaningful roles.
experiences that help shape highly capable leaders and
empower our employees to chart individualized career New Employee Hires by Region (%)**
paths that feed Our Purpose and theirs.
25.2%
33.2% I’m like a lot of women at the school gates; I’m highly
Peter Fasolo Ph.D. skilled and educated, but I didn’t know how to break
Executive Vice President, Chief Human back into the workplace and didn’t have the self-
Resources Officer, Johnson & Johnson
confidence either. In a sense, we are a hidden workforce.
Re-Ignite provided the support structures I needed
19.4% to help me adjust to returning to the workplace. After
In 2022, our direct global workforce included approximately
participating in the program, I found that I slotted back
153,700 individuals. This includes approximately 25,000 new 22.3%
into the work environment; it was like I never left. This
hires across our different regions, of whom 54% were women.
was very empowering. I felt relevant and that I hadn’t
Asia Pacific Europe, Middle East & Africa lost my skills.
Latin America North America
* Abiomed headcount is excluded from Global Employee data, as well as
other employee and DEI-related disclosures. ** Values have been rounded Barbara McCarthy
to the nearest tenth. Due to rounding, the numbers presented do not add up Site PMO Manager, Johnson & Johnson Vision
precisely to the totals provided, and percentages may not precisely reflect
the absolute figures.
512022 Health for
Hiring military veterans: Alongside our appreciation for their valued Advancing leadership development: We developed leadership We also completed our most significant people leader assessment
Humanity Report
service, we appreciate the unique skills and experience military skills at every level and career stage through on-demand content of all time, with more than 7,500 people leaders receiving a report
veterans and military spouses bring to our business. We engage with and innovative and personalized modules across our suite of providing valuable feedback on their people leadership skills that
government bodies and veteran support organizations to expand leadership development programs, with many thousands of will support their ongoing development and further empower
our hiring pathways for military veterans, and we offer veteran employees at all levels. them to help our organization deliver on its critical objectives.
development programs to support transitioning to civilian life and
work. In 2022, we made strong progress as an employer of choice
for the military community:
• E nhanced and expanded hiring and development opportunities
through our sales and leadership programs. Johnson & Johnson’s Learning and Development in 2022
Employee Attraction & Development Military Veteran Leadership Development program, launched in by the Numbers*
2017, has maintained 100% retention across all cohorts, totaling
more than 40 veterans. $112 million 1,185
• H ired veterans through the Department of Defense SkillBridge total spend on employee employees in the U.S. and
program, which provides transitioning military service members learning and development Puerto Rico participated in
with civilian work experience during their final six months in service. the tuition reimbursement
As part of this program, Johnson & Johnson offers internships to program
SkillBridge participants, and, in 2022, we completed our first full 100,000 learning 27 hours 1,832
programs
annual cycle of hiring, during which 90% of SkillBridge interns Johnson & Johnson 100%
new leaders participated
became Johnson & Johnson full-time employees. J&J Learn hosts employees spent an
in our Enterprise Leader
approximately 100,000 average of 27 hours on of employees completed
• R eaffirmed our commitment to veteran and military spouse hiring learning programs training in 2022. Development Program year-end performance
through the Veteran Jobs Mission, a coalition that brings together
available to employees. reviews
hundreds of leading companies to actively hire veterans.
46%
9%
of Managers and above
moved across functions,
voluntary turnover rate
Learning and development country or business
segment lines, building
We continue to invest heavily in a wide variety of learning and By embracing a learning mindset—both for ourselves diversity of experiences*
development programs that help employees realize their career
and for our teams—we will be better able to anticipate
goals while building a capable and resilient workforce for the
and develop the critical capabilities needed to
future. Some examples from 2022 follow:
accelerate business outcomes and future-proof our
Delivering a new learning ecosystem: We launched J&J Learn, organization while also providing rewarding career * Career progression movement
opportunities that allow employees to realize and includes upward promotion and
a global learning and development platform that integrates the lateral transfer and excludes
curricula from our multiple learning organizations across the pursue their unique purpose and aspirations. employees in the R&D organizations.
Enterprise, including leadership development programs, Human
Performance Institute programs and more, to become the single
source for all learning and development needs. By leveraging the Sandra Humbles
latest technology, including AI, J&J Learn delivers a streamlined Chief Learning Officer, Johnson & Johnson
learning experience that is easy to access and navigate and enables
every employee to incorporate learning into their daily practices
while creating the career path that is right for them. J&J Learn
includes learning programs, facilitates matching with mentors Learn more about all our people development resources
and holistic career review and development planning tools. in our Position on Employee Development.
522022 Health for
Building digital capabilities: To support the ever-expanding use Compensation and benefits
Humanity Report
of digital technologies and data science in almost every aspect of
our work in every function of the business, we are heavily investing Our compensation framework, which is consistent worldwide,
in building broad digital capabilities for our workforce. To focus includes a set of core principles that guide all compensation
our efforts and provide a common learning experience across decisions, recognizing the important contributions of our
Johnson & Johnson, we launched our Digital Upskilling Channel employees to deliver our mission in ways that align with our
supported by “digital missions,” which are learning activations values. We are committed to pay equity, including gender and
comprising various learning formats such as synchronous and ethnic/racial group pay equity.
asynchronous learning, quizzes and articles around one specific
Periodically, we analyze our pay across functions to assess
digital capability, that provide teams with an effective, experiential
market competitiveness and to eliminate unconscious bias
learning opportunity. We supported this innovative approach with
Employee Attraction & Development
or other barriers to full pay equity across the Enterprise. In
a playbook for local activation of digital missions. Additionally,
2022, we invested significantly in targeted salary increases in
Johnson & Johnson employees continued to access our iTalk
several countries to enhance our competitive pay position; this
Digital Education Series, developed by our Technology Division to
was also influenced by inflationary pressures, and part of our
teach digital topics with 130 iTalk videos available to all employees.
analysis this year used a new framework to monitor inflation and
highlight areas for further alignment. In addition, we increased
our investment in employees across our Total Health portfolio
to address rising rates of mental health concerns and ongoing
uncertainties or consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic. We
Digital acumen continues to be a critical capability for
believe that our investment in employees across the spectrum of
Johnson & Johnson, enabling teams to reimagine and
compensation and benefits helps make Johnson & Johnson both
transform our business models to accelerate outcomes
more attractive as an employer and more resilient as a business.
and future-proof our organization.
Additionally, we completed our annual living wage assessment
with the aim of ensuring all employees globally receive pay that
is competitive in their local markets and sufficient to support a
Michael Ehret, Ph.D.
sustainable standard of living for them and their families
Head of Global Talent Development,
Johnson & Johnson (see section: Human Rights).
Enhancing hybrid working: We continued to implement our
hybrid working model, J&J Flex, globally, capturing the energy of
in-person interactions and remote flexibility. In the supply chain,
flexibility offerings for on-site employees were established that
combine locally relevant practices with a globally consistent hybrid
working framework at each site. This new approach was used, for
example, to remotely onboard thousands of supply chain team
members, who also completed a portion of their total required
training assignments online.
53Diversity, Equity & Inclusion GRI 405-1
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion advances our culture of belonging where open hearts and minds combine
to unleash the potential of the brilliant mix of people working everywhere at Johnson & Johnson today,
as well as those who will join us in the future.
We take a strategic approach to driving DEI at Johnson & Johnson, DEI is fundamentally embedded in our human resources strategies See also our section on Our Race to Health Equity (ORTHE) for ways in
based on our mission and vision and DEI strategy that is designed and our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals: which we are helping eradicate racial and social injustice as a public
to do the following: health threat by eliminating health inequities for people of color in
the U.S.
Build a workforce that reflects the diversity of
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Health for Humanity 2025 Goals
our communities.
Accelerate our global culture of inclusion where
every individual belongs. DEI in 2022 by the Numbers
Transform talent and business processes to achieve
41% 36%
equitable access and outcomes for all.
Progress in Women in Management
of our Vice Presidents of our Directors and
Drive innovation and growth within our business • 4 9% of management positions globally are held by women. globally are women Managers in the U.S.
to serve diverse markets around the world. identify as ethnic or
racially diverse
55%
Progress in Ethnic/Racial Diversity
Our DEI Mission Our DEI Vision in Management of our employees in 36%
Be yourself, Make Diversity, Equity • 3 6% of management positions in the U.S. are held by ethnic/ Latin America are women,
the highest rate of women of our U.S. workforce
change the world. & Inclusion how we racially diverse employees.
across our four regions identifies as ethnic or
work every day.
racially diverse
Progress in Black/African Americans 20%
in Management 26,609
of our workforce is
• A chieved a growth of 40.5% in Black and African management
over the age of 50 employees engaged in
positions from 2020, with Black and African American employees
Employee Resource
We cannot overstate the positive impact that diverse representing 6.6% of management positions in the U.S.
Groups (ERGs)
voices bring to our organizational culture, our
community and society at large. But challenges remain.
We must continue to create an inclusive environment
Our fourth annual DEI Impact Review shares insights about the
where employees embrace individual and cultural
evolution of our DEI strategy and a wide range of stories of our
differences to drive innovation.
progress throughout 2022 to advance DEI across the four pillars
of our strategy within our three business segments.
Wanda Hope
Chief Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Officer,
Johnson & Johnson
542022 Health for
Among our areas of progress in advancing Equitable access and outcomes In 2022, women’s representation on our Executive Committee increased from one to five
Humanity Report
DEI in 2022: women following a leadership restructure, testifying to our strong pipeline of women at
• Partnered in multiple initiatives with ORTHE
senior levels in our Company and our commitment to realizing opportunities for women in
teams and business leaders to address mental
Diverse workforce
key roles. We also appointed our first female General Counsel in the Company’s history.
health inequities in diverse communities.
• Strengthened development of 130 next-
generation Johnson & Johnson leaders through • Supported efforts to advance inclusive R&D
our RISE & ASCEND development programs. and diversity in clinical trials, and provided Gender Representation (%)
opportunities for HCPs including women
orthopaedic surgeons and surgical residents 53% 54% 54%
• A fuc llc ce yle cr la et ie nd
t
hve et Der ea pn as
r
th miri en ng
t
w ofi t Dh eo fu er
n
fi sers t of color. 47%48% 49% 46%48% 49%
SkillBridge program, with 90% of SkillBridge • Facilitated a robust, dual-language campaign
39%
for the Janssen Research Includes Me initiative
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion interns becoming Johnson & Johnson
during Hispanic Heritage Month to better
full-time employees.
communicate the importance of participating in
• Removed barriers to access through expanding clinical trials to the Hispanic/Latino community.
diverse slates, broadening hiring criteria and
14% 14%
removing bias from job postings. Innovation and growth
Culture of inclusion • Advanced supplier diversity though
procurement teams, helping achieve a
• Delivered Conscious Inclusion training significant increase in diverse supplier spend.
to Vice Presidents and Directors across Women full-time Women in Women in Women
Johnson & Johnson. • Supported our brand teams to deliver brand employees management positions executive positions new hires
innovation and awareness campaigns to
• E mpowered our 12 ERGs, engaging nearly address the needs of diverse communities 2020 2021 2022
27,000 colleagues around the world in
across skin care, eye care, oral health and
harnessing the passions of employees
smoking cessation brands.
to educate, connect and create space
for belonging. • Partnered with diverse communities through Ethnic/Racial Diversity in the U.S. (%)*
multiple innovation QuickFire Challenges led
• Expanded “Exploring Our Diversity,” a by JLABS.
global and immersive educational series 2.3% 1.7%
to build greater cultural knowledge and • Expanded our Care With Pride initiative 9.8%
globally with products in Brazil, Canada,
understanding among our employees. White
Germany, Japan and the UK.
• Delivered an interactive DEI Glossary, an 7.5% Asian
evolving resource of commonly used DEI Our most recently filed U.S. Federal Employer
Black/African American
terms, to ensure we understand and use Information Report EEO-1 is publicly available.
62.4% Hispanic/Latino
language that is representative and inclusive Note that federal reporting requirements require
of all Johnson & Johnson employees, patients, specific employee categorization that differs 16.2% Other
consumers and communities. from the way we measure our diversity progress,
Declined to answer
as reflected in our Health for Humanity Report,
and is, therefore, not directly comparable.
* Values have been rounded to the nearest tenth. Due to rounding, the numbers presented do not add up precisely
to the totals provided, and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.
55Employee Engagement GRI 413-1
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Across Johnson & Johnson, employees find inspiration in Our Purpose to change the trajectory Women in STEM
of health. We provide platforms, tools and resources across the Enterprise to help everyone
We aim to encourage girls to consider science, technology,
contribute effectively.
engineering, mathematics, manufacturing and design (STEM²D)
studies and career opportunities in the knowledge that advancing
gender equality in technical professions will both strengthen
We encourage open and inclusive communications so that society and also build a stronger pipeline of diverse talent
everyone feels welcome to offer ideas and suggestions about 2022 92% in under-resourced STEM2D-related professions, critical to
how we can improve outcomes for patients and consumers and advancing innovation in healthcare.
Our Credo Survey
demonstrate care for our communities and our planet. participation rate among
Key Results all eligible employees
Connecting to our employees: One of the platforms we use to
Employee Engagement track employee sentiment and feeling of being connected to our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals
colleagues and our values is our biennial Our Credo Survey, which
92%
was administered in 2022 in 77 countries and made available in 87%
36 languages. Over the past two years, people around the globe agreed with the
favorability rate, which
have faced and overcome many social and economic challenges, statement, “Ensures our
reflects how we are
including those relating to the COVID-19 pandemic. In the face of first responsibility is to
fulfilling Our Credo
these challenges, employees have maintained their confidence in commitments to the patients, doctors Progress in Women in STEM2D
and nurses, mothers and
Our Credo values, demonstrating stronger support and recognition employees
fathers, and all others • E ngaged 170,000 girls in 2022 through 230
for the way we uphold our values and positively impact society.
who use our products events and 190 STEM2D.org activities for a total
and services.” of 501,000 girls engaged.
Following an analysis of the detailed results, which were
communicated to all employees, we developed plans to address
the main areas of opportunity identified by our employees’
feedback, both at the Enterprise level and within individual teams. Through our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals, which include a
92% 86%
specific target to reach 2 million girls through STEM²D activities
In alternate years, we conduct a global Our Voice Survey, which
agreed with the agreed with the led by Johnson & Johnson employees in partnership with
serves as an indicator of employee satisfaction and measures
statement, “Acts statement, “Provides nonprofit organizations, we encourage our employees to play
important aspects of our culture such as employee engagement, responsibly to the an inclusive work
an active role in engaging to advance women in science.
inclusion, development, health and wellness, collaboration, communities in which environment where each
execution, innovation, and compliance and risk. we live and work and employee is considered
In 2022, more than 1,500 Johnson & Johnson employee
the world community as an individual.”
Recognizing employees: In addition to several awards and honors as well.” volunteers directly engaged in STEM2D activities with
approximately 170,000 girls.
programs that recognize the contributions of our employees
across different functions and regions, we maintain our global
Our Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics,
peer recognition platform, Inspire, which reaches all of our global
Manufacturing and Design (WiSTEM²D) initiative supports youth,
workforce in 77 countries. In 2022, hundreds of thousands of
undergraduates, scholars and professionals and has been active
recognition moments celebrated meaningful contributions and
since 2015. Through our WiSTEM²D Youth Pillar, we seek to spark
purpose-led behaviors among our employees.
enchantment with STEM²D in young women and girls all around
the globe through creative problem-solving and play.
562022 Health for
In our WiSTEM²D Undergraduate program, we collaborated with Engaging employees for healthy communities Bridge to Employment engages employees as mentors to help
Humanity Report
nearly 70 universities, delivering more than 140 events and reaching secondary school students improve academic performance and
more than 23,000 university students via a variety of activities and Johnson & Johnson’s GCI organization drives our Talent for elevate their career aspirations. The extension program, Pathway
social media campaigns. We also launched a WiSTEM2D Camp, a Good strategy to inspire our employees to help create healthy to Success, helps students succeed and thrive in higher education,
weeklong pilot program in Europe, to give students an opportunity communities across the globe. Talent for Good offers a wide providing additional support and full-time paid summer internships
to explore post-secondary options in STEM2D fields, an initiative variety of engagement opportunities for employees, inviting each at Johnson & Johnson (14 internships in 2022).
we plan to extend to 2023. Further, we expanded our WiSTEM2D to take part at their preferred level of participation in a focus area
program in our APAC and Latin America regions. of their interest. Talent for Good programs include skills-based One Young World engages employees to support frontline health
volunteering opportunities conducted in partnership with nonprofit leaders on various projects and provide guidance and mentorship,
In our WiSTEM²D Scholars program, we again selected six community partners. These programs, which range from short-term building young leadership capacity across the globe to change
outstanding female researchers to receive support to drive their volunteering in local communities and medium-term programs that the trajectory of health.
important research. This program has been active since 2017, connect employees with nonprofits wherever they are in capacity-
selecting early to mid-career women faculty researchers, who building activities to fully immersive engagements over several Talent for Healthy Communities creates greater engagement
Employee Engagement have completed their post-doctoral studies and are making key months, support nonprofit skills and competencies. and awareness between employees and partners in the same
STEM²D discoveries, to each receive a grant of $150,000 and local community through a hybrid pro bono program, addressing
three years of mentorship. In 2022, we received more than 500 Our quarterly giving initiatives engage employees to support critical capacity-building needs in that community.
applications from highly qualified nominees from around the local communities, and we also encourage employees to
WiSTEM2D engages employees globally to inspire young girls
world, with more than 75% of applicants coming from outside volunteer in our communities through our Company-wide days
and women to enter STEM2D fields.
the U.S. The selected WiSTEM²D 2022 scholars are advancing of caring.
pivotal global innovations across diverse fields with an aim to Global Pro Bono engages employees in pairs with selected
significantly improve healthcare outcomes. partner organizations working on the front lines of health to
support them and build organizational capacity.
Between 2018 and 2022, Johnson & Johnson’s WiSTEM²D
Scholars program has provided 30 outstanding female Global Secondment Program enables and empowers selected
The Talent for Healthy Communities Program
researchers with $5.4 million in grant funding to advance Johnson & Johnson employees to support partner organizations
allowed me to use my professional skill set to help
pivotal healthcare innovations. on the front lines of health to raise public health standards in
the community. Within the project, I also learned
communities around the globe by sharing their knowledge, skills
how to effectively manage a project and work with
and passions over a four- to six-month time frame.
multiple groups of people. It was quite challenging,
yet very rewarding.
Dr. Ange Therese Akono, Pro Bono for Health Equity utilizes the skills and talents of
a 2022 awardee, is Johnson & Johnson employees to build the capacity of U.S.-based
working in bone tissue Community Health Centers supporting communities of color.
regenerative engineering, Denivea Williams This program is part of Our Race to Health Equity commitment
with a focus on discovering Senior Manager, Acquisitions & Divestitures Value (see section: Our Race to Health Equity).
Excellence & Service Lead, Johnson & Johnson
nanostructured bone
scaffolds to help restore
the quality of life of patients
Many of our Talent for Good programs build on longstanding
who require maxillofacial
collaborations that Johnson & Johnson has maintained for
bone repairs.
several years with organizations that have a wide reach within
our communities and help create meaningful volunteering
opportunities for Johnson & Johnson employees to maximize
our impact and deliver tangible social benefit. In 2022, these
collaborations included:
572022 Health for
Engaging employees for a healthy planet
Humanity Report
Johnson & Johnson employees are passionate about environmental
Talent for Good Engagement in 2022 by Employee Engagement for a Healthy Planet
sustainability and seek to make an impact. We engage, inspire
the Numbers* in 2022 by the Numbers
and provide opportunities for employees to learn and collaborate
through dedicated environmental sustainability programs
Bridge to Employment Talent for Healthy and learning and idea-sharing platforms such as WeSustain, 78 >40,000
Communities HealthyPlanet and environmental sustainability training.
410 active WeSustain teams actions completed by
in 31 countries HealthyPlanet users to
194
employees volunteered
protect the environment
more than employees from
Water nourishes a better world, by
4,600 12 Simon S., 10 years old, China. One
hours mentoring with countries volunteered of several winning original pieces
Employee Engagement
with in our Annual Worldwide Children’s
776
Energy Coloring & Art Contest. The Employee training in environmental sustainability: In 2022, we
30
students worldwide contest, in its 39th year, is open to all built an online self-paced training module, called “Sustainability &
community partners young relatives of Johnson & Johnson
My Job,” to demonstrate how every Johnson & Johnson employee
employees and is an opportunity to
can contribute to sustainability solutions at work. This follows
engage with the future generation on
One Young World the broader foundational sustainability training module launched
how we each play a role in reducing
Global Secondment in 2021. The new training depicts real employee examples and
>150 carbon emissions.
Program guides employees to build their own action plan based on their
employees role and function. Interest in both optional sustainability training
collaborated with 26
modules has been strong from employees around the world.
12 employees WeSustain: Our environmental sustainability employee
volunteered with engagement program, WeSustain, mobilizes passionate employees
external scholars on
to improve environmental health in locations where we live,
projects addressing the 20
work and sell our products. In 2022, we brought the WeSustain
front lines of healthcare
NGO partners
and mentoring students community together for the first Global WeSustain Summit.
We are continuously providing opportunities for
Employees globally joined a virtual live event to hear from internal
our employees to learn and build their personal and
and external speakers, connect with each other and share ideas
professional sustainability capabilities so that decisions
Pro Bono for for a more sustainable future.
Global Pro Bono made today will help protect the environment and the
Health Equity
HealthyPlanet: In 2022, through our HealthyPlanet platform health of future generations.
63
22 launched in 2020, we challenged employees to calculate their
employees from all
employees environmental sustainability impact by offering a personal carbon
regions volunteered with
volunteered with calculator and ideas to reduce their footprint. Throughout the year,
Deb Gorhan
14 4 employees completed more than 40,000 actions on topics ranging Director, Sustainability Culture & Engagement,
NGO partners from reducing energy, lessening food waste and eliminating Johnson & Johnson
NGO partners
single-use plastics. Incentives, like charitable donations, drove
employees to take over double the actions taken in the previous
year. Impact metrics from HealthyPlanet illustrated employee-led
savings, including reduced paper use, reduced trash, lower energy
* See section: Women in STEM for details of WISTEM2D activity in 2022. consumption and lower water use.
58Employee Health, Safety & Well-Being GRI 403, 403-6, 403-9, 403-10
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
At Johnson & Johnson, we take an uncompromising approach to safety in everything we do. We also invest
extensively in the health and well-being of our employees; we believe that advancing health for humanity starts
with protecting and enhancing the total health—physical, mental, emotional and financial—of our workforce.
We aim to ensure that all our employees around the world, as well as temporary contractors and visitors To reinforce best safety practices, in 2022, we commenced a yearlong global refresher program of our
to our sites, can work safely. Our workplace health and safety programs include adherence to our robust Six Safety Habits framework for all employees in our R&D spaces and supply chain facilities—and those
global safety standards, risk assessments, extensive training and communications. We continuously working on construction projects—to reacquaint them with the workplace habits that ensure safety
expand health and well-being benefits throughout Johnson & Johnson globally, incorporating new continues to be an essential part of our culture.
thinking and technologies to help employees achieve their personal mind and body health goals.
Global Employee Safety (%)*
Employee Health, Safety & Well-Being
0.27 Our Six Safety Habits
0.24
0.23
Learning Responsible
We learn from both our successes and Everyone is personally responsible for their
our failures. safety and the safety of others.
0.06
0.050.05 Caring Transparent
0.030.020.03
We demonstrate caring and inspire a Everyone feels safe to make suggestions and/or
strong value of safety from the heart. share complaints with those who need to know.
Lost Workday Serious Injury and Total Recordable
Case Rate Illness Case Rate Injury Rate
Proactive Inclusive
2020 2021 2022
Everyone anticipates and actively We seek diverse perspectives and share safety
engages in controlling safety hazards. knowledge within and beyond our four walls.
* See the Employee Safety table in the ESG Performance Data section of this Report for footnote considerations related to Global
Employee Safety data.
We constantly reinforce
our uncompromising
approach to safety
Ensuring people can work safely is foundational to their well-being. In fact, nothing
through communications
is more important. However, we must continue to remain vigilant. With so many
to all employees around
facilities and operations around the world, presenting potential safety risks every
the world.
minute of every day, we rely on our approximately 153,700 people, as well as
contractors and visitors to our sites, to practice safe working in every single one
of those minutes.
Johan Geerinck
Worldwide Vice President, Environmental Health
& Safety, Johnson & Johnson
592022 Health for
Advancing road safety: Road safety is a key element of our safe Beyond safety, we aspire to have the healthiest workforce, inspiring • Enhanced the Employee Assistance Programs and CARE
Humanity Report
working programs, and we continuously seek to improve the us to continually examine and expand our total health benefits, (Confidential. Accessible. Responsible. Engaged.) services
safety of our vehicles and, even more importantly, the awareness, programs and offerings to support the total well-being of all in select countries, with the intent to introduce additional
vigilance and safe practices of our drivers. In 2022, we took several employees and embed a culture of health throughout Johnson & countries in 2023. The enhanced services connect employees to
actions to further improve our driver and fleet safety globally: Johnson. Our healthiest workforce ambition is tracked in our Health professional assistance on a broad range of topics. From mental
for Humanity 2025 Goals annual Healthiest Workforce Score. health support to professional life coaching and work-life services
• expanded predictive analytics for the majority of our global
(i.e., elder/adult care, travel, childcare, education, pet care,
fleet drivers;
household services and parenting), employees can now easily
• digitized both global road safety data with online at-a-glance Health for Humanity 2025 Goals navigate to the support they need.
dashboards for effective safety controls and management and
also our road safety assurance and audit process; • Introduced new virtual mental health resources in the U.S. to
support employees and their families, including behavioral
• standardized our global road safety training on our internal support for children, teens and families. Along with other leading
online training platform, accessible to all fleet drivers; and
companies across industries, we joined Thrive and the Society
• distributed a highly reflective inflatable airbag vest to all riders of for Human Resources Management in pledging our continued
Employee Health, Safety & Well-Being
two-wheeled power vehicles in India to reduce risk of potential injury. commitment to prioritizing employee well-being and mental
Progress in Healthiest Workforce Score
health.
• 6 6% of Johnson & Johnson leaders and
their managers achieved an ≥80% Healthiest • Expanded travel benefits for U.S. employees and their families,
Workforce Score. providing reimbursement for travel to receive medical services
(inclusive of, but not limited to, reproductive healthcare) not
available from any other in- or out-of-network provider within
100 miles of the patient’s home.
The comprehensive well-being portfolio available to Johnson &
Global Activity Challenge: In 2022, we held our seventh 30-day
Johnson employees and their families is reflected in the positive
Global Activity Challenge, encouraging our employees to join
employee perception of organizational support for their total health.
teams to boost their health by getting moving. Employees were
In 2022, most global employees believed senior leaders support their
able to select walking, running, dancing, cycling, gardening,
health and well-being, as exemplified by the Our Credo
practicing yoga or other preferred physical activity, competing
Survey results.
against other global teams. The 2022 Challenge engaged more
In 2022, we again improved our health benefits and programs to than 33,000 participants in 73 countries, recording more than 7.5
support employee health and well-being and rolled out several billion steps throughout the Challenge. At the end of the Challenge,
new initiatives to enhance our robust portfolio of well-being Johnson & Johnson donated $50,000 each to Operation Smile and
Since 2012, Johnson & Johnson has donated more than
offerings, including: UNICEF.
75,000 lifesaving helmets to children in Vietnam.
of potential injury.
• I mplemented expanded paid parental leave benefits for employees Energy management: Our enterprise-wide ENERGY FOR
around the world, with 12 weeks of paid leave covering maternal,
PERFORMANCE program helps employees manage their energy
paternal, adoptive, surrogacy-assisted and foster parents.
capacity so that they can be their best at work and in life. We have
consistently expanded the use of this program and introduced
virtual courses to continue to deliver this important training during
the pandemic. In 2022, 8,872 employees completed ENERGY FOR
PERFORMANCE courses.
602022 Health for
Humanity Report Environmental
Health
6611
A LEED Gold-certified Janssen facility completed the second phase of a photovoltaic (PV) panel installation in 2022.Climate Action GRI 201-2, 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
At Johnson & Johnson, we understand that human health and environmental health are
Health for Humanity 2025 Goals
fundamentally linked—healthy people need a healthy planet. For more than two decades, we have
set and achieved carbon reduction goals. We have taken sustained, long-term action to reduce our
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and we are encouraging our suppliers to do the same.
As the largest, most diversified healthcare products company, Johnson & Johnson has set three public goals to reduce GHG
Progress in Renewable Electricity
we recognize our opportunity to drive positive change on issues emissions across our value chain. Our near-term goal to reduce
that affect the health of the people we serve. We continually Scope 1 + Scope 2 GHG emissions by 60% from 2016 levels, is • 6 7% of electricity is produced or procured from renewable
energy sources.
strive to improve the environmental footprint of our operations, validated by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) as being
Climate Action
our products and our value chain while also working with others consistent with the reductions required to keep global warming
• I n 2022, Johnson & Johnson signed additional renewable
Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) in Brazil and India.
to accelerate and scale solutions. And together with like-minded to 1.5°C. Previously signed renewable electricity agreements in
partners, we are working to tackle today’s global challenges at the Europe and the U.S. went into effect in 2022.
intersection of human and environmental health, including climate
change and health equity. Johnson & Johnson was recognized
with a CDP A List rating in 2022 for Progress in Carbon Neutrality for
According to the WHO, climate change is the single biggest health our leadership in climate action for Our Operations (by 2030)
threat facing humanity, and climate-sensitive health risks are the fifth consecutive year, one of
disproportionately felt by the most vulnerable and disadvantaged.56 just 297 companies to be named to
• 4
2
01%
16
( a bb as so el lu int ee
.
r 4e 4d %uc rt eio dn u)
c
i tn
io
S nc o inp ce
lu
1
d
+
in
2
g
c ca ar rb bo on
n
e cm reis ds itio s.ns vs.
the Climate A List in 2022.
• Five Johnson & Johnson sites were newly certified
CarbonNeutral® by the external organization Climate
Impact Partners, bringing the total number of our certified
CarbonNeutral sites to six.
Since 2016, our absolute Scope 1 + Scope 2 GHG emissions have
reduced by 41% (absolute reduction), from 1,166,456 MT COe in
We take an intentional approach to climate action in 2
2016 to 683,188 MT COe in 2022.
order to benefit the health of our planet, the health 2 Progress in Scope 3 Emissions
of our company, and the health of people, including
Reductions (by 2030)
those who are disproportionately impacted by the Scope 1 + 2 GHG Emissions (MT COe)*
2 • 1 1% increase in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions – Scope 3
effects of rising temperatures, extreme weather (upstream) vs. 2016 baseline.
e tov e pn rots
g
a ren sd
s
c tl oim wa at re d- ss oe un rs i cti lv ime ah te ea glt oh
a
r li ss ,k ws.
e
I n
a
ra ed wdi oti ro kn
in g
1,166,456
1,085,385 1,058,659
• O pru imr S ac rio lyp be
y
3
P
e um rcis hs ai so en ds Gin oc ore da ss ae nd
d
b Sy e1 r1 v%
ic
f ero
s
m
an
2 d0 U16 p,
s
d trr eiv ae mn
968,830
with partners to strengthen the climate resilience of Transportation and Distribution. The calculation of emissions
from both categories is based on spend data and category-
the healthcare workforce and healthcare systems that 742,895 753,270 specific economic input/output emission factors (versus
serve those most vulnerable to the health impacts of a 683,188 activity-based emissions). Fuel price increases and inflation
changing climate. further exacerbated costs used in the calculation of emissions.
• Progress in 2022 includes becoming a founding member of
the Pharmaceutical Industry’s program Activate, supporting
API suppliers in their decarbonization efforts. We also piloted
Paulette Frank a Joint Climate Action planning process with high emitting
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Chief Sustainability Officer, suppliers to identify areas of opportunity for collaboration to
Johnson & Johnson * See the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions table in the ESG Performance Data reduce Scope 3 emissions.
section of this Report for footnote considerations related to Scope 1 + Scope 2 GHG
emissions data.
56 WHO, “Climate change and health,” https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/climate-change-and-health, accessed February 2023. 622022 Health for
Accelerating our use of renewable electricity Minimizing GHG emissions through our
Humanity Report
operations and products
We are making meaningful progress in deploying renewable Renewable Electricity Across
electricity across a greater portion of our operations around the Operations (as of the end of 2022)57 In addition to accelerating our use of renewable energy, we continue
world, with 67% of our global electricity use powered by renewables to invest in energy-efficient processes and equipment, green
84% 100% 67%
at the end of 2022. construction and lower-carbon renovations at our sites.
North America Europe All Global Operations
Since 2005, energy efficiency programs at our most energy-intensive
This data is the percentage of electricity used by manufacturing and R&D sites are allocated up to $40 million per year
Johnson & Johnson Johnson & Johnson that is generated from renewable in capital relief through our CO Capital Relief Program, for energy
2
maintains more than 50 sources, including on-site and off-site renewable projects that demonstrate potential CO savings and a financial return
2
on-site renewable energy systems, like direct PPAs, virtual PPAs and Utility Green of at least 15%.
systems in 20 countries Tariffs. In Europe, three virtual PPAs that were finalized
Climate Action
and has executed more in 2021 brought us to the equivalent of 100% renewable For example, Janssen’s Xi’an facility in China completed the second
than 15 contracts for electricity in Europe due to renewable electricity phase of photovoltaic (PV) panel installation as part of the CO Capital
2
off-site renewable certificates (RECs) contracted for 2022. Relief Program, integrating it into its existing system.
electricity procurement.
Our global expansion of the use of renewable electricity and
execution of virtual PPAs and green tariffs has been a significant On-Site Clean/Renewable Energy Capacity by Type (MW)*
factor in reducing our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, in line with
our goal to achieve carbon neutrality for our operations by 2030.
1.6
In 2022, we completed several initiatives to procure renewable
17
electricity globally, propelling Johnson & Johnson toward our Solar PV
30
100% renewable electricity goal at the global level by 2025. These
Co-generation
initiatives included:
Wind
• Brazil: A direct PPA was signed for 100% renewable electricity from
Geothermal
a wind farm in northern Brazil for all Johnson & Johnson operations
in the country starting in 2023. This is the largest deal we’ve made 15 Biomass
in South America to date.
• India: A direct PPA was signed in Mulund, India, that will enable 16 The Xi’an site team after completing the second phase of photovoltaic (PV)
the Mulund Consumer Health plant to source some of its electricity panel installation.
from wind power in 2023. * See the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions table in the ESG Performance Data
section of this Report for footnote considerations related to Scope 1 + Scope 2 GHG
• Australia, China and South America: Multiple Utility Green Tariffs emissions data.
were completed for renewable electricity across several sites.
In 2022, Johnson & Johnson Vision Care achieved 100% renewable
• Mexico: A direct PPA from a wind farm in Mexico helps deliver part of
electricity across its global manufacturing operations using Utility
Ethicon’s Juarez site with renewable electricity, as of September 2022.
Green Tariffs and on-site solar in the U.S. and both on-site wind
• Malaysia, South Africa and Spain: Expansion of on-site solar
power and off-site wind power from a direct PPA in Ireland.
power generation was completed at three Consumer Health sites.
57 Europe includes Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the UK. North America includes the U.S. and Canada only. 632022 Health for
Since 2016, our total absolute energy consumption across all Green buildings: We continue to pursue Leadership in Energy
Humanity Report
Johnson & Johnson sites has reduced by 8%, from 12,811 TJ in & Environmental Design (LEED) certification or equivalents (such
CO Capital Relief Program Overview
2 2016 to 11,800 TJ in 2022. This represents 30% energy reduction as Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment
(2005 – 2022)58
on an intensity basis, per $ billion in sales. Methodology [BREEAM]). In 2022, we added one LEED
certification across our facilities, bringing our total at the end
$89 million 274 2,589
of 2022 to 68 LEED-certified and BREEAM-certified Johnson &
Total Energy Use Since 2016 (TJ)*
annual energy projects TJ annual Johnson sites.
cost savings completed energy savings Scroll over chart for more information
12,811
$478 million 320,362 MT CO 11,800
2
total spent on annual GHG Approximately 9.4 million square feet
completed projects emissions avoided of Johnson & Johnson workspace is LEED-certified.
Climate Action
Green labs: In 2022, our J&J MedTech DePuy Synthes R&D
In 2022, five Johnson & Johnson sites in France (Sézanne), Germany
lab in Leeds, UK, and our Janssen Immunology lab in California,
(Wuppertal), Italy (Pomezia), Switzerland (Neuchâtel) and the
both achieved “My Green Lab®” certification for implementing
U.S. (Lititz, Pennsylvania) were newly certified CarbonNeutral®
2016 2022
sustainability best practices. My Green Lab certification is
by the external organization Climate Impact Partners, bringing
recognized by the UN Race to Zero campaign as a key measure
our total number of certified CarbonNeutral sites to six, including From non-renewable sources From renewable sources
of progress toward a zero-carbon future and is considered the
Helsingborg, Sweden, originally certified in 2017. Carbon emissions
gold standard for laboratory sustainability best practices
reductions were achieved through energy efficiency initiatives, such
around the world. We intend to seek certification for more
as HVAC optimization and chiller system replacements, waste-to- Energy Intensity Since 2016 (TJ/$ Billion)*
Johnson & Johnson labs in the coming year.
energy projects and renewable electricity use. Carbon credits and
carbon offsets were utilized for remaining emissions. 178
Reducing energy consumption: Overall, between 2016 (our base
year for the Health for Humanity 2025 Environmental Goals) and
2022, we reduced our total energy consumption by 8%, while our 124
business grew by 32% in the same period. In other words, our energy
intensity, expressed as TJ per $ billion in sales to customers, reduced
by 30%, strongly demonstrating the cumulative effect of continuous
improvement and deliberate energy efficiency initiatives, year after
year, across our global operations.
2016 2022
* See the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions table in the ESG Performance Data section
of this Report for footnote considerations.
58 Results from completed projects. Based on fuel and electricity reduction calculations. Avoidance of energy consumption and GHG emissions were calculated by comparing energy consumption 64
before project implementation and expected consumption after implementation using engineering estimates at the time the projects are approved through an internal process.2022 Health for
Driving carbon reductions across our value chain • Building capability: We are helping to educate suppliers on We continued to engage in partnerships and coalitions to help
Humanity Report
emissions measurement and disclosure, as well as renewable energy make a positive impact on the health of our climate beyond our
Engaging with our key suppliers across our global supply base adoption. We have also trained our procurement teams to support value chain:
is critical to reducing our absolute upstream Scope 3 GHG high-quality data submission by suppliers to CDP.
• In early 2022, the National Academy of Medicine’s (NAM’s)
emissions in line with our Health for Humanity 2025 Goal of 20%
• Driving reductions: We are piloting a Joint Climate Action Planning Action Collaborative on Decarbonizing the U.S. Health Sector,
reduction by 2030 (from 2016 levels).
process with high-emitting suppliers across various industries to a public-private partnership of leaders from across the health
help us understand their climate goals and efforts needed to achieve system, began engagement after forming in 2021. The Climate
Upstream Scope 3 GHG Emissions (MT COe) by Source*
2 them. Through Joint Climate Action Planning, we are able to identify Collaborative is a forum to align around collective goals and
Scroll over chart for more information the biggest opportunities to collaborate with suppliers to drive actions for decarbonization, based on evidence, shared solutions
reductions in our Scope 3 emissions. and a commitment to improve health equity. One of the current
work streams of this group focuses on developing and sharing
Regarding logistics, we continued to work with suppliers to reduce resources to help healthcare supply chain companies start or
6,974,849
Climate Action shipping-related emissions. For example, in Europe, Johnson & accelerate their sustainability journeys.
Johnson introduced a “rolling highway” project that transports fully
loaded trucks by rail between Italy and Belgium, significantly reducing
• In 2022, we were foundational funders of the Beyond the
Megawatt Initiative from the Clean Energy Buyers Institute
emissions from road travel. This program will be expanded to include
(CEBA), charged with creating a resilient, equitable and
more shipments in 2023.
environmentally sustainable energy system for the benefit of all
233,285
101,720 by leveraging energy customer demands for clean energy.
433,946 Partnering for climate action
We also work with partners to advance environmental health
equity. This includes supporting programs to empower healthcare
In 2022, we also engaged with two initiatives to support collective
1,905,485 workers and to strengthen the resilience of healthcare facilities in
efforts in driving down GHG emissions in pharmaceutical supply
areas where it’s needed most.
chains. These were:
Purchased goods Capital goods • The Energize Program: A pharmaceutical industry collaboration
and services
platform with an aim to increase access to renewable electricity
Upstream transportation Fuel- and energy-related within pharmaceutical supply chains and to educate suppliers
and distribution activities
about renewable energy adoption and contracting. More than
Business travel Upstream leased assets 160 Johnson & Johnson suppliers have registered to the platform.
In 2022, the Energize program supported its first renewable
Employee commuting Waste generated in operations
electricity buyers cohort—a group of companies that came
together to contract for renewable electricity at scale via a PPA.
* See the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions table in the ESG Performance Data section
of this Report for footnote considerations related to Scope 3 GHG emissions data.
• The Activate Program: A pharmaceutical industry collaboration,
To make progress in this area, our procurement and logistics teams launched in 2022, bringing together five pharmaceutical
worked closely to identify and realize opportunities to improve our companies, including Johnson & Johnson, as founding members
Scope 3 data and drive emissions reductions. We introduced a new to support active API suppliers in their decarbonization efforts
Upstream Scope 3 strategy that encompasses: through measurement of their GHG emissions and provision of
practical decarbonization tools.
• Improving data quality: We are piloting a collection of more detailed
sources of emissions data for our supply base, as well as using our
data science capabilities to visualize CDP Supply Chain data that
shows the maturity level of our largest-emitting suppliers, including
their goals, emissions footprint and reductions.
65Water & Waste Management GRI 303-1, 303-2, 303-3, 303-4, 303-5, 306-1, 306-2, 306-3, 306-4, 306-5, SASB CG-HP-140a.1, CG-HP-140a.2
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
We continue to advance initiatives across our facilities and throughout our supply chain to minimize
our impacts on the planet through responsible use of water, avoidance of waste and reduction of waste
sent to a landfill.
Water stewardship: As part of our efforts to continuously improve Water-saving projects in Helsingborg, Sweden: At our Consumer on track to achieve its goal of being a certified TRUE Zero Waste
our management of water resources and our water stewardship, we Health site in Helsingborg, Sweden, three new water-saving projects facility. Green Business Certification Inc.’s TRUE Zero Waste
are pursuing Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) certifications were completed in 2022. A newly installed chiller with a closed-loop certification is a program that rates how well facilities perform
across elected facilities in our network. In 2022, Johnson & Johnson water cooling system has reduced coolant water needs by more in minimizing their non-hazardous, solid wastes and maximizing
Consumer Health Thailand and Janssen’s Xi’an, China, facility both than half while requiring less energy to operate than the old model. their efficiency in the use of resources. Several new on-site waste
achieved AWS certification. The international AWS certification Production equipment cleaning processes were also optimized and management processes, including a waste inventory management
addresses sustainable water management and is confirmation of shortened to save purified water annually. Finally, an adjustment in system and internal packaging reuse systems, combined with
Water & Waste Management
having met the global benchmark for responsible water stewardship. the reverse osmosis processes and equipment service methodology outreach to suppliers for take-back of packaging items for reuse
We are pursuing additional site certifications in the coming years. was completed, saving additional water on-site. or recycling, have contributed to a reduction in non-hazardous
waste sent to landfill from this facility.
Over the past five years, our water withdrawal in million m3 per Waste management: We continually advance initiatives across
$ billion sales across Johnson & Johnson globally has reduced by all our facilities and throughout our supply chain to systematically Total Waste Generated (MT)
5%, demonstrating efficiencies in water management alongside avoid waste, reduce waste to landfill and increase sustainable
Scroll over chart for more information
business growth in sales of 16% between 2018 and 2022. management of waste. The waste streams generated directly by
our operations include hazardous and non-hazardous waste from 194,836
183,558 185,491
research laboratories, manufacturing processes, warehouses
Total Water Withdrawn (million m3)
and offices. Waste management initiatives progressed in 2022
included:
11.64 11.71
11.09 11.04 11.11
• Reducing hazardous waste: Our aim is to reduce hazardous
waste from material-intensive API processes by implementing
green chemistry and engineering principles to improve chemical
conversion yields and increasing reuse and recycling of raw
materials. For example, in 2022, Janssen continued a program to
reduce hazardous waste from our small molecule API production
2020 2021 2022
at four Johnson & Johnson sites.
Hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste
• Working toward zero waste: In Brazil, our teams at the São
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 José dos Campos site, which houses manufacturing for all three
business segments of Johnson & Johnson, have been working
Johnson & Johnson was recognized with a CDP A- rating toward improving their waste management program. Since 2020,
in 2022 for our leadership in water security. several initiatives have been put in place to advance recycling
across non-hazardous waste streams, and in 2022, the site
achieved its highest recycling level since the start of the program,
66Product & Packaging Sustainability GRI J&J22-7, SASB HC-MS-410a.1, SASB HC-MS-410a.2, SASB CG-HP-410a.1, SASB CG-HP-410a.2
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
We are committed to developing more sustainable products to support the health of people and our Reducing medical e-waste: J&J MedTech’s Biosense Webster in
Brazil implemented an initiative to help hospital staff understand
planet. We focus on the product categories, platforms and lifecycle areas with the highest potential
how to change the practice of discarding single-use connector
impact and prioritize improvements that can be implemented across multiple products.
cables used in surgical ablation procedures by safely preparing
them for reuse. Biosense Webster cables were designed with
exclusive materials to perform in sterile conditions and, when
Product end-of-life and circularity Addressing digital health device waste: Janssen launched and properly sterilized, can be safely reused up to 10 times. By investing
coordinated a new multiyear collaborative initiative, with co- in educating hospital staff in sterilization procedures, tons of cables
We recognize that the products we create may continue to have funding through the EU Horizon Europe program, to address the that are discarded annually in Brazil can now be avoided, both
environmental impacts after use, and we are working to offer more issue of increasing digital health device waste. The initiative, called reducing waste and equipment expenses for hospitals.
end-of-life circular solutions. A selection of initiatives in 2022 include: Digital Health in a Circular Economy (DiCE), brings together 20
organizations in the fields of manufacturing, research, refurbishing,
Expanding surgical device recycling: We expanded our hospital
remanufacturing, recycling, social science and policy from nine
surgical device recycling program, which was piloted in Germany
countries across Europe with an aim to examine the lifecycle of
Product & Packaging Sustainability in 2021, to include eight countries in Europe. The program allows
digital health devices from design to end of life, to help extend
hospitals to recycle specific metal and plastic components from
their lifetime and/or to responsibly manage them at the end of their
Ethicon and Biosense Webster’s single-use instruments while
useful life. Use of digital health devices is predicted to increase
digitally capturing and communicating the environmental impact of
rapidly, so a collaborative solution is timely.
salvaging materials such as steel, titanium, aluminum, copper and
chrome steel, as well as specific plastics.59 Reprocessing and recycling of medical devices: To reduce the
end-of-life impact of medical device parts in the environment,
Components from more than 25,000 single-use products J&J MedTech reprocessed, single-use devices manufactured
were recycled in 2021 and 2022 through our Hospital by Johnson & Johnson company, Sterilmed, and also offers
Recycling Program. reprocessed products from other original manufacturers, in line
with local laws.
The program is also expanding to recover Ethicon’s absorbable
suture aluminum-based packaging in countries such as Germany In 2022, J&J MedTech in the U.S. and Canada:
and Switzerland.
The SOUNDSTAR Catheter shown here with the reusable eco-cable connection.
Expanding pharmaceutical device take-back: We expanded our
Collected Reprocessed
U.S. SAFE RETURNS program for home-administered Janssen
0.78 million 0.32 million
immunology products to Switzerland. SAFE RETURNS allows
patients to return their self-injectable devices using paper medical devices medical devices
envelopes instead of plastic containers once used. A feature of the
program is the removal of the hazardous material classification due
to the needle-safe authorization, thereby eliminating the need for
Additionally, J&J MedTech’s Biosense Webster, in collaboration
patients to prepare special paperwork for handling by mainstream
with Sterilmed, expanded its on-site support to collect
postal services. The program is expected to expand to several
reprocessable ultrasound catheters, diagnostic catheters and
additional European countries in 2023.
electrophysiology cables to maximize the reprocessing programs
in Canada and the U.S. and help health systems support their
environmental sustainability objectives.
59 Recycling varies by country. 672022 Health for
Sustainable packaging Zero Waste Boxes are distributed to partnering opticians’ stores to transformation and its engineering parameters upon scale-up
Humanity Report provide nationwide access to contact lens recycling for consumers, reduced the manufacturing process mass intensity, which resulted
Across our diverse portfolio of products, we are working on multiple providing a simple, accessible solution for storing, shipping and in halving the API manufacturing cycle time, as well as lowering
opportunities to improve the sustainability of our product packaging. recycling contact lens waste, including the lenses themselves, along manufacturing costs. Without these significant process and yield
A selection of initiatives in 2022 include: with the original foil covers and blister packaging. improvements, patient access to this innovative medicine would
have been restrictive both in terms of affordability, as well as annual
Investing in new circular technologies: At Johnson & Johnson, we Between 2019 and 2022, Johnson & Johnson Vision’s ACUVUE manufacturing capacity.
aim to work with suppliers attempting to find solutions to help divert Contact Lens Recycle Scheme recycled more than 8 million
waste from landfills and to develop technologies that turn diverted pairs of contact lenses, blister packs and foils. • U pstream and downstream process improvements in the manufacturing
of REMICADE (infliximab) enabled a significant increase in batch
waste into new materials. This is why in 2022, Ethicon entered into
yield, thereby improving the product’s environmental profile. The new
an agreement with Eastman to purchase Eastman’s Eastar™ Renew Collaborations on sustainable product and packaging: We
REMICADE manufacturing process enables a significant reduction
6763 copolyester for its medical device trays. Eastman is a global are members of several organizations that promote sustainable
in required batches to deliver the final product, thereby lowering the
specialty materials company that produces a broad range of advanced packaging and circularity in our industry, including: The Healthcare
quantities of raw materials to deliver the same output.
materials, chemicals and fibers found in items people use every day. Plastics Recycling Council, advancing plastics recyclability in
healthcare; The Sustainable Healthcare Coalition, a healthcare
By purchasing Eastman’s Eastar Renew 6763 copolyester, Ethicon is
sector-led group that inspires sustainable practices in healthcare;
Pharmaceuticals in the environment (PIE)
Product & Packaging Sustainability able to attribute a portion of the weight of each tray to materials that
and The European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and
Eastman collects for recycling. With each tray, Ethicon helps divert
Associations (EFPIA), which advances the transition to a circular
We play an important role in supporting initiatives to reduce the
waste from landfills and advances new technology solutions such as
economy across the pharma value chain as a key pillar of its activity.
potential impact of pharmaceuticals and personal care products in the
Eastman’s molecular recycling technology. We know that a collective
environment. We have a mature and robust program for managing PIE
approach is essential to tackle today’s greatest environmental Learn more about sustainable packaging solutions in
and our position can be found here.
challenges. This is an important first step toward advancing the Consumer Health.
circularity of our healthcare packaging. Progress in 2022 included:
Using recycled packaging for medical devices: J&J MedTech Green chemistry and technology • W e continued our active participation in the industry-led Eco-
company DePuy Synthes launched more than 250 product items Pharmaco-Stewardship program, which released the Responsible
in the SYNFIX Evolution brand in post-consumer recycled (PCR) Our R&D teams continue to integrate principles of green chemistry Manufacturing Effluent Technical Guidance document, used by
paperboard material (93%). This PCR packaging replaced white and engineering to develop our medicines. In 2022, progress included: the industry and Johnson & Johnson to inform how we control the
boxes made with 100% virgin paperboard. The new packaging went • Janssen obtained FDA approval for our inline conditioning process concentrations of APIs that may enter the environment from our
through extensive testing to confirm that it stands up to our stringent installed at Janssen’s Ireland facility. This process, already approved manufacturing plants and those of our suppliers.
standards for sterility and structural integrity. by the Ireland Health Products Regulatory Authority, was developed
• A s a member of the Antimicrobial Resistance Industry Alliance
by the Janssen R&D team as part of a new manufacturing installation
Reducing and recycling contact lens waste: As part of a (AMRIA), we contributed to the publication of the AMRIA Antibiotic
to support a plant expansion. Inline conditioning applies a unique
commitment to reduce its environmental footprint, Johnson & Manufacturing Standard: “Minimizing risk of developing antibiotic
approach to preparing, supplying and releasing solutions in real time
Johnson Vision removed the plastic pouches on the outside of resistance and aquatic ecotoxicity in the environment resulting from
to the manufacturing process, without the need for large-scale storage
delivery boxes for all ACUVUE contact lenses in Europe. This change, the manufacturing of human antibiotics.”
capacity. The traditional, manual batch approach to making buffers
involving placing delivery notes inside orders without external involves dissolving buffer components in large tanks filled with water • W e also joined the Innovative Medicines Initiative’s Prioritization
packaging, will save tons of plastic across Europe every year. and then, in some cases, transferring the solution into bags that are and Risk Evaluation of Medicines in the Environment (PREMIER)
transported to the point of use. Inline conditioning both saves time and project consortium, which brings together public and private sector
In the UK, Johnson & Johnson Vision’s ACUVUE Contact Lens
reduces material, waste and energy use throughout the process. organizations to proactively manage the potential environmental
Recycle Scheme, launched in 2019, has collected over 8.7 million
impact of medicines. The initiative aims to design a novel information
lenses and recently expanded to increase capacity of lenses, blister • Janssen improved the efficiency of the manufacturing process of
and assessment system for identifying and addressing environmental
packs and foils to be recycled each year. ACUVUE offers the only an oligonucleotide API. The API manufacturing process is highly
risks of medicines to support a new European standard for
contact lens recycling program in the UK, and its expansion was complex and can involve more than 100 linear chemical steps,
environmental protection.
achieved through an agreement with TerraCycle, with Johnson & consuming high quantities of solvents and reagents. Expanded
Johnson Vision funding 3,500 Zero Waste Boxes in 2022 alone. process development and deep understanding of each chemical
682022 Health for
Humanity Report Accountability
& Innovation
6699
Manufacturing Operator Isabelle V. demonstrates manual intervention on the Seidenader automatic inspection line where syringes are inspected.
Photo by Dries Luyten.Supply Chain Innovation
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Innovation is a critical engine of our long-term business success and a driver of our positive contribution
to sustainable development.
Across Johnson & Johnson, we deliver innovation in multiple ways. • Janssen, Latina, Italy: Deployed a streamlined continuous
In our Pharmaceutical, MedTech and Consumer Health business manufacturing line, which is fully automated and digitally
segments, we combine innovative technologies with leading connected to a similar “mirror line” located in the Janssen R&D
Johnson & Johnson Lighthouse Designations
science to generate transformational solutions across the spectrum plant in Beerse, Belgium. The twin lines—connected by sensors,
(as of March 2023)
of healthcare (see section: Healthcare Innovation). Throughout big data and digital analytics—enable the quick and seamless
our global operations and supply chain, we deploy the most transfer of products from R&D to manufacturing, greatly
Janssen Vision
advanced technologies, including digital, to support our diverse accelerating time to market, as well as improving product
healthcare portfolio, focusing on quality, reliability and efficiency in Cork, Ireland Jacksonville, process time and efficiency.
bringing our products and treatments to patients to enable better (2 designations)* Florida, U.S.
Supply Chain Innovation • Consumer Health, Bangkok, Thailand: Adopted AI in quality
health outcomes. Equally, we advance sustainability through our
Latina, Italy London, UK inspections on LISTERINE filling lines, replacing a manual
many technology-driven innovations that support environmental
inspection process. New AI modules on all filling lines learn
efficiencies in our global supply chain. Examples from 2022 include:
DePuy Synthes Consumer Health the visual differences in bottle quality, enabling automatic
identification of defective bottles to speed up the production
Embracing advanced technologies: We are early adopters of Cork, Ireland Helsingborg, Sweden
process and reduce waste. Our site can now ship LISTERINE
the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR) across our organization.
Suzhou, China Bangkok, Thailand directly from the packing line, more than halving lead times
4IR means deploying digital technologies to make bigger and
faster leaps forward in productivity, efficiency, sustainability and Bridgewater, Mulund, India for customers.
enhanced customer service. This approach is recognized by the New Jersey, U.S.** • Consumer Health, Mulund, India: Deployed 4IR solutions such
World Economic Forum (WEF) Global Lighthouse Network that as demand sensing, smart logistics, robotics and 3D printing to
identifies leadership in 4IR technology deployment to transform improve reliability, accelerate new product introductions by 33%
factories, value chains and business models. Of the 145 Global and enhance cost-effectiveness for customers.
Lighthouse designations granted by the WEF, Johnson & Johnson
Improving customer service with machine learning: We
is privileged to have 11 Lighthouse designations—more than any
* Janssen’s Cork site in Ireland was designated twice: first, in 2020, for incorporating
established the Janssen Track & Trace Platform to drive proactive
other company in the world. 4IR technologies into daily manufacturing and supply chain operations, and
again in 2022, for using 4IR to advance its sustainability efforts. ** Advance Case risk management and enhance the customer experience. By using
Management end-to-end business model recognized. Johnson & Johnson partners
Internet of Things sensors with machine learning, we developed
with customers to manage inventory at the point of consumption in an effort to
ensure the right orthopaedic implants for the right patient at the right time. an industry-leading Estimated Arrival Time capability that provides
customers with a 10-minute delivery window, an unprecedented
4IR represents a new era of innovation in technology. The four most recent Johnson & Johnson sites to receive WEF level of accuracy in predicting and informing customers when
Building on the digital revolution that preceded it, 4IR Lighthouse designations for adopting 4IR technologies are as follows: shipments will arrive. This new capability is now live on the
is marked by a shift from innovation made possible Johnson & Johnson Customer Connect website and will be a game
• Janssen, Cork, Ireland: Received a Sustainability designation for
by artificial intelligence, robotics, autonomous changer for personalized medicine and time-sensitive products
the use of adaptive process controls to automatically adjust the
vehicles, 3D printing, the Internet of Things and other
chiller system for faultless operation and built a digital twin chiller
such as CAR-T technology-based cell therapies (see section:
breakthrough digital technologies to innovation Pharmaceutical R&D), hospital trauma kits and gene therapies.
loop that connects the plant with its energy provider, allowing
based on a fusion of these technologies.
it to share and monitor a single source of data to dramatically
reduce the site’s carbon footprint.
Gary Hartnett
Vice President, Partnership & External Supply,
Janssen Supply Chain
702022 Health for
Revolutionizing our transportation network using real-time Optimizing surgical inventories using real-time data: Advance natural language processing are used to deconstruct documents
Humanity Report
tools: Our implementation of a new Johnson & Johnson Global Case Management (ACM), our digitally enabled system to increase into structured data sets that automatically populate new
Transportation Control Tower, covering contracted inter-regional perioperative efficiency—a priority for surgery centers and documents for submission, requiring only minor manual additions.
air and ocean transport and selected road transportation in our hospitals—was further scaled in 2022 after two years of operation. This process increased efficiency, and has resulted in more concise
three business segments, has revolutionized transport planning ACM digitally integrates electronic medical records, surgical documents—an additional advantage that reduces turnaround time
efficiency, shipment visibility in transit and customer confidence schedules and patient health information to inform a proprietary for the multiple language translations required for each document.
in shipment status through real-time communications. The AI-driven algorithm that can accurately predict patient-specific
Control Tower, supported by our logistics partner, integrated implant and surgical instrument needs based on patient joint sizing,
hundreds of shipping sites, thousands of transportation lanes biometrics and surgeon preference. Using ACM, patient- and
and dozens of ERP systems to form a single transport planning procedure-specific equipment is supplied to surgery centers and
hub that offers several benefits, including end-to-end visibility of hospitals, enabling them to reduce overall J&J MedTech inventory, Because we launch products across several
supply chain movements; standardized procedures for shipment minimize operating room setup time and achieve other efficiencies jurisdictions, everything isn’t always called the same
booking and management; near-real time performance reporting; leading to higher equipment availability alongside cost savings. ACM thing or in the same order in required regulatory
spend visibility and freight audit capabilities; and continuous doubled its volume in 2022, supporting surgeons in more than 150 documentation. We needed to create a solution that
improvements through freight optimization, improved lead times health systems around the U.S. and improving overall patient care. could use and gain knowledge to determine what
Supply Chain Innovation
and improved response times. data is being requested.
Creating a smart Hot Room in China: At our J&J MedTech
Ethicon Suzhou Plant in China, the new smart Hot Room improves
production efficiency, optimizes the production environment and
Joshua Samuels
reduces safety risks. Ethicon employees operate the Hot Room
Director, Clinical Evaluations,
using intelligent automation (IA) to complete hot degassing, an
The Global Transportation Control Tower is an J&J MedTech
important process for suture production. Employees have no need
important step in our journey to become an agile,
to enter the room at any stage, and by using Radio Frequency
digital and unified transportation team across the
Identification (RFID) tagging, they can track products end to end in
globe. It accelerates our reach to key markets,
real time, enabling a touchless and accurate supply chain to meet
reduces our total spend and helps us monitor
China’s growing demand for surgical sutures.
deliveries in real time to proactively resolve issues
before they impact our customers. Automating new product development and launches: At J&J
MedTech, IA is used to create a tailored, robotic document-drafting
solution that accelerates new product launch timelines. Previously,
Nico Sacco J&J MedTech teams submitted thousands of pages of documents
Worldwide Vice President, Planning, Customer to regulators detailing device data and clinical study results
Management and Deliver, Janssen Supply Chain when applying for new product authorization and, in many cases,
different regulatory bodies require different data. This meant that
J&J MedTech technical writers spent weeks reviewing extensive
documentation to identify and collate the relevant content for
regulatory submissions. With the new tool, machine learning and
71Responsible Supply Base GRI 204-1, 304-3, 308, 414, SASB HC-MS-430a.3
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
A critically important link in our value chain, Johnson & Johnson’s supplier network underpins our
business continuity and enables us to manufacture and deliver essential products and services to >46,000 $40.1 billion
our patients, consumers and customers. suppliers globally total supplier spend*
Guided by Our Credo values, we aim to maintain collaborative Our responsible supply base ambitions are reflected in three
supplier relationships and encourage a broad diversity of suppliers Health for Humanity 2025 Goals. Supplier Spend* Contracted by Region (%)
to work with us. Our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers, our
Supplier Sustainability Program (SSP) and our Global Supplier 10%
Diversity & Inclusion Program are core frameworks that underscore Health for Humanity 2025 Goals
our interactions with suppliers, what we expect of them and
how we support them. Through our Partnerships for Good, we
encourage our suppliers to join us in developing sustainable
solutions to social and environmental challenges.
56% 32%
Responsible Supply Base
Progress in Supplier
Sustainability Program
• 4 2,800 suppliers are included in one of the three Tiers, 3%
The vital role of a strong supply network is evident to
representing 93% of Johnson & Johnson’s supply base.
all of us at Johnson & Johnson. The saying “it takes Asia Pacific Europe, Middle East & Africa
a village” could have been written for our supply
Latin America North America
chain—although in our case, with tens of thousands of
Progress in Global Supplier
suppliers and Johnson & Johnson employees across the
Diversity and Inclusion
globe, we are talking about a very large village! But the Supplier Spend* Contracted by Business Segment (%)
point is clear: We could not achieve our goals without
• A chieved and exceeded target in two consecutive
years 2021 and 2022.
the dedication, collaboration, responsiveness and 13%
responsible conduct of all those who are engaged day-in
day-out in helping us meet our commitments to our 34%
Partnerships for Good
patients through the supply of products, goods,
services and technologies to our organization. Established six total partnerships, including three partnerships
in 2022 focused on women’s empowerment, packaging
23%
sustainability and fair chance employment.
1. C o-developed a Women’s Empowerment program
Kathryn E. Wengel
focused on ensuring women have equal professional
Executive Vice President, Chief Technical
access and growth opportunities.
Operations & Risk Officer, Johnson & Johnson
2. D eployed recyclable e-commerce-ready pumps into
the Johnson & Johnson packaging portfolio. 30%
3. I mplemented hiring practices to remove common barriers
Pharmaceutical MedTech
experienced by justice-impacted communities to build an
equitable workforce. Consumer Health Corporate
* Represents spend we have control over/addressable spend, defined as products and services that procurement teams can negotiate with suppliers to meet business goals. 72Supplier Engagement GRI 308-1, 308-2, 414-1, 414-2
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Our supply base is an extension of our business and an important link to our customers around the world. In a large
and diverse organization such as Johnson & Johnson, setting clear expectations of suppliers across all aspects of
their interactions with us enables the best outcomes for our Company, our suppliers and all those we serve.
• Supplier Diversity, Equity & Inclusion: Suppliers are expected
to foster a culture of DEI within their own organizations and Johnson & Johnson was named to the 2022 CDP
throughout their own supply bases. Supply Chain Leaderboard for the sixth consecutive
Suppliers are critical to our mission of changing the year as a result of the strong participation of our
• Information Security: Suppliers are expected to rigorously
trajectory of health for humanity, and we recognize suppliers in disclosure to CDP programs:
manage their business activities, employ appropriate information
the broad-based impact these external partners have
security practices to safeguard data and systems and maintain
on our communities. That is why we are committed
business continuity.
to working with suppliers who not only provide the
85%
highest-quality products and services, but who also
• Environmental Responsibility: Suppliers are expected to align
with expanded requirements covering GHG reductions and the
share our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion; of invited suppliers participated
Supplier Engagement willingness to measure and publicly disclose data; increased
sustainability; and respecting human rights. By working in the CDP Supply Chain
focus on energy efficiencies; and integration of biodiversity Climate Program
with suppliers who embrace these imperatives, we can
considerations, recyclability and recycled material use.
drive even greater benefits for society.
We communicated the new Standards to our suppliers, supported
74%
by training and ongoing engagement.
Shashi Mandapaty of invited suppliers participated
Chief Procurement Officer, We aim to work respectfully and collaboratively with all suppliers in the CDP Supply Chain
Johnson & Johnson who engage with Johnson & Johnson. Our Supplier Sustainability Water Program
Program (SSP) is a key tool to engage selected suppliers, requiring
them to conform to our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers
To help us deliver on the high standards embodied in Our Credo,
and regularly complete an assessment by EcoVadis, a recognized Assessing and engaging suppliers on social risks: We continued
we seek relationships with suppliers who uphold the principles
provider of business sustainability ratings for global supply chains. to strengthen our processes and tools to assess, verify and address
reflected in our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers. These
We also encourage transparency among our largest suppliers, risks in our supply base as part of our compliance with laws and
Standards outline our expectations on a number of important
encouraging them to publicly disclose their environmental regulations and to check conformance to the Human and Labor
topics and are integral to our supplier-selection process, helping
performance, including GHG emissions and water use to CDP. Rights section of our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers. Our
us build a supply base that shares our commitment to strong ethics,
human rights in the supply base work included targeted due
quality and global citizenship. The Standards are periodically
diligence of existing and potential suppliers, including the use of
updated to align with current best practices and our own internal
advances. In 2022, we updated our Responsibility Standards for on-site SMETA (Pillar 4) audits and fuller investigations of potential
Suppliers, including new sections covering: high-risk commodities and supply chains. We also deployed two
tech-enabled risk assessment tools: (i) using AI to gain upstream
supply chain visibility of potential high-risk commodities, and (ii)
embedding third-party modern slavery metrics in our SSP to
assess potential supplier risks.
732022 Health for
In 2022, we held the first dedicated human rights training session as Partnerships for Good: We executed three new Partnerships In particular, we maintain multiple multiyear forest partnerships
Humanity Report
part of our Onward Sustainability Training Program—launched in 2021 for Good in 2022, advancing our progress toward our Health to enable the protection of tropical rainforests that are critical for
and part of our SSP—for suppliers, providing guidance on developing for Humanity 2025 Goal to collaborate with suppliers to create climate mitigation, wildlife conservation and long-term community
human rights policy commitments (see section: Human Rights). 10 solutions that drive environmental, social and economic well-being. We focus on palm oil, working with the Earthworm
improvements, bringing our total to six Partnerships for Good to Foundation and BSR’s Action for Sustainable Derivatives initiative,
Building supplier capabilities: In 2022 as part of Onward,
date. The three new initiatives in 2022 were: and wood-fiber products, working with the Rainforest Alliance,
Johnson & Johnson Procurement and Sustainability managers,
to build transparency in our sourcing and supply and engage our
in collaboration with the British Standards Institute, introduced • Fair chance employment: This partnership with Kelly Services
suppliers in responsible practices. Examples of forest initiatives
is designed to remove barriers to employment for contingent
new content to more than 1,000 suppliers in 45 countries. These
we continue to support include an initiative of the World Wildlife
worker job candidates who may have been previously overlooked.
sessions were designed to focus on specific practical areas for
Fund to restore forests and protect more than 38,000 hectares of
In this program, Kelly Services works with Johnson & Johnson to
development such as measuring and reporting GHG emissions,
rainforest in Sumatra, Indonesia, and an initiative with the Forest
evaluate existing policies on a job-category basis and to craft and
starting a supplier diversity program and establishing health and
Conservation Fund in Loreto, Peru, to prevent the deforestation of
introduce new policies that eliminate unnecessary barriers and
safety policies for employees. Our intention is not only to support
10,000 hectares of pristine Amazon rainforest.
develop new contingent assignment postings with more inclusive
our own suppliers so that they can help Johnson & Johnson
language.
achieve our goals, but also to help suppliers drive responsible Conflict minerals: As members of the Responsible Minerals
conduct through their own supply chains, resulting in greater • Recyclable pumps: This partnership with supplier Aptar enabled Initiative and in line with regulatory requirements, we remain
efficiency, resilience and sustainable practice for a wide supply Johnson & Johnson Consumer Health to launch a recyclable committed to taking steps to determine the use, country of origin
Supplier Engagement network. Since launch, the Onward sessions have had more than pump for our AVEENO brand in European markets with potential and source of tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold in our global product
1,300 attendees from our global supply base. for expansion internationally. With more than 100 million pumps portfolio.
used annually by AVEENO, this innovation has the potential to
Engaging suppliers in innovation: Johnson & Johnson’s Supplier-
prevent huge volumes of plastic from entering our waste streams.
Enabled Innovation Program allows us to generate innovative
solutions through engagement with our supply base using an • Women’s Empowerment Initiative: Working with supplier
Sodexo, this partnership focuses on women’s empowerment in
innovation technology platform. In 2022, Johnson & Johnson’s
EMEA and APAC, aiming to promote equal access for women
Procurement organization held its second annual Supplier-Enabled
to growth and opportunities in our workplaces. A program of
Innovation Awards event, recognizing the top innovations from
initiatives, delivered jointly by Sodexo and Johnson & Johnson,
these programs in 2021. Among the award winners were:
includes mentoring, coaching, job-shadowing for women facing
• Manufacturing design improvement: Working with a supplier, barriers to work, skilled volunteering opportunities and more.
J&J MedTech was able to improve the performance of Ethicon’s
flagship stapler by creating a new manufacturing process to
deliver an enhanced design. Responsible sourcing
• Enhancing precision marketing capabilities: Our OTC team in
Throughout our business, we source commodities and raw
China worked with a supplier to generate unique data insights
materials, some of which require heightened procurement focus
from consumer behavior data to help engage consumers and
due to critical environmental or biodiversity concerns or elevated
meet their needs more effectively.
human rights risks in the supply chain. We work to understand the
• Improving product sustainability: Johnson & Johnson Consumer potential risks and impacts of our procurement activities in these
Health in Brazil partnered with several suppliers to develop a
areas and define appropriate standards and controls in responsible
sanitary napkin under our SEMPRE LIVRE brand that uses 50%
sourcing of commodities and raw materials of concern.
less plastic and includes a pouch component that is made of
100% recyclable paper.
74Supplier Diversity
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Our Global Supplier Diversity & Inclusion program provides a platform for proactive outreach to diverse and small
suppliers, collaboration with partners advancing supplier diversity and guidance to suppliers on how to engage
with Johnson & Johnson. Now in the third decade of this program, we continue to realize the value that an inclusive
supply base brings to our business, our people and our communities. We have expanded our global footprint
driving social and economic impact in 20 markets, including the U.S.
A key measure of our progress to advance supplier diversity is our For the 12th consecutive year, Johnson & Johnson Broadening diverse supplier capabilities to compete in a global
Global Impact Spend, representing addressable spend with small maintained membership in the Billion Dollar Roundtable, a market: Johnson & Johnson sponsored the National Minority
and diverse suppliers globally and small businesses in the U.S. Global group of companies that advance best practices for supplier Supplier Development Council’s (NMSDC) Certificate of Excellence
Impact Spend was also one of our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals diversity and that spend at least $1 billion annually with program, designed to broaden the capabilities of minority-owned
and was exceeded in 2021. This Goal, while concluded, is confirmed diverse-owned suppliers. businesses to compete in a global environment. During the
as having been exceeded again in 2022. nine-month program, launched in 2022, more than 80 select
NMSDC-certified Women and Minority Business Enterprises
Global Impact Spend in 2022 by the Numbers
benefited from coaching relationships with corporate leaders and
Supplier Diversity mentors, as well as instructional seminars delivered by Rutgers
Business School, subject matter experts from Johnson & Johnson
$5.88 billion $2,927 million We are really proud to partner with Johnson &
and multiple industry partners.
Johnson, recognizing them in 2022 at the very
Total Global Impact with small businesses
highest platinum level in our annual Global
Spend, a 13% increase in the U.S.
compared to 2021 Champions of Supplier Diversity and Inclusion
awards. Johnson & Johnson are amongst the best of
the best globally in regards of inclusive spend. Our
partnership, now in its 11th year, continues to grow Johnson & Johnson’s substantial support of diverse
as we seek to jointly drive action to break down the suppliers is an important indicator of their values. As a
$537 million $3.21 billion
barriers that prevent women business owners from sponsor of a cohort of the NMSDC Center of Excellence
with Tier 1 diverse in Tier 1 diverse spend
accessing new market opportunities. Certificate Program, Johnson & Johnson is making
suppliers in international and $650 million
a difference by investing in the growth of Minority
markets in Tier 2 diverse spend
Business Enterprises and Women Business Enterprises.
That impacts communities and our economy. We are
Elizabeth A. Vazquez proud to partner with a company that has a long history
CEO and Co-Founder, WEConnect International of community engagement and corporate citizenship.
9% increase 10% increase
in spend with U.S. in spend with U.S. Tier In 2022, the Global Supplier Diversity & Inclusion team put
Tier 1 women-owned 1 Black- and Hispanic- additional focus on partnering with external advocacy partners to
businesses compared owned businesses expand capability and capacity for diverse businesses. Following Jeffrey A. Robinson, Ph.D.
to 2021 compared to 2021
are a few highlights: Academic Director, The Center for Urban Entrepreneurship
& Economic Development, Rutgers Business School
752022 Health for
Expanded mentoring in manufacturing and logistics: Supporting the development of advocacy bodies around the world:
Humanity Report
Johnson & Johnson also became a founding sponsor of the We support the development of advocacy bodies who help us to
Diverse Manufacturing Supply Chain Alliance (DMSCA) discover and certify diverse suppliers; these are critical enablers to
Foundation. This sponsorship enabled the organization to our program but also advance the adoption of supplier diversity and
expand its training to incorporate digitalization modules and inclusion practices for other companies to drive even greater impact.
assessments to build the capabilities of suppliers. We have
Developing minority-owned supplier advocacy in Europe:
been a corporate partner of DMSCA, a development program
Johnson & Johnson became a founding member of the European
for diverse manufacturers and logistics suppliers, since 2009.
Supplier Diversity Project (ESDP), an initiative led by Minority
Building capacity for women of color-owned businesses: Supplier Development UK to support ethnic minority and migrant-
Johnson & Johnson sponsored two cohorts totaling close to 50 owned businesses. ESDP aims to enable these businesses to certify
women in the Women’s Business Enterprise Council Metro NY and access opportunities in corporate supply chains. The initiative
and Greater DMV (District of Columbia, Maryland, Virginia) Amplify was supported by research sponsored by Johnson & Johnson that
program. Amplify is a program uniquely designed to engage and documents why an increasingly diverse Europe needs equality in
support women of color in maximizing opportunities to scale procurement for ethnic minority entrepreneurs, who frequently
their businesses. suffer discrimination on the basis of their race or ethnicity.
In 2022, we also sponsored the Buy Social Europe initiative to
support our strategy to procure from Social Enterprises, as well
Supplier Diversity
as a new relationship with Out Britain to support our procurement
from businesses owned by members of the LGBTQ+ community.
I entered this program hoping to build on the foundational
understanding of running a business as a solopreneur,
Europe is increasingly diverse. Minority businesses help local
and I received so much more. I was able to expand my
economies thrive, create jobs and wealth, innovate and export,
network and grow my business ... up 75% in revenue.
not to mention paying taxes. But minority entrepreneurs are
often at an economic and social disadvantage.60
Engaging with customers and suppliers to extend end-to-end
Bianca Ellis
impact: We expanded our impact across our value chain through
CEO, ProjACCT Workflow
reporting and engagements with customers in the U.S. We
introduced a customer engagement program in partnership with
internal groups, connecting with more than 50 major customers
across healthcare systems to share best practices and support their
efforts to address social determinants of health. In addition, we
grew our supplier Tier 2 spend reporting by 28% in 2022 through
engagements with Johnson & Johnson prime suppliers.
60 Legrain P. and Fitzgerald M., “EQUIP Europe: Why an increasingly diverse Europe needs EQUality In Procurement for ethnic minority entrepreneurs,” MSDUK, https://www. 76
msduk.org.uk/static/EQUIP-Europe-Report.pdf, accessed February 2023.Corporate Governance GRI 2-9
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Our Board of Directors oversees our Company in accordance with Our Credo values, enabling us to
put the patients we serve first and create value for society while maintaining a thriving business.
Our governance structure, policies and processes are designed The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing execution of
to serve the needs of our business, our shareholders and other risk management duties and for assessing Johnson & Johnson’s Our Board of 92%
stakeholders and to promote a culture of accountability across the approach to risk management. The Board reviews and discusses Directors as of
Enterprise. For details of our corporate governance principles and strategic, operational, financial and reporting risks, as well as April 2023: independent
approach, our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Framework, non-financial, or ESG, risks, including compliance, environmental,
governance structures, Board Charters, organizational documents social (e.g., human capital management) and cybersecurity risks,
and all SEC filings, please see our Position on Corporate leveraging the ERM Framework. For more information, see section:
50% 25%
Governance and the Corporate Governance section on ESG Governance).
Johnson & Johnson’s website.
women ethnically/racially diverse
Changes to our governance structure in 2022 included:
• We announced the appointment of Joaquin Duato as the 10th
Chairman of the Johnson & Johnson Board of Directors, in
addition to his role as Chief Executive Officer, effective January
Corporate Governance For more than 13 decades, Johnson & Johnson has 2023. We also announced that Alex Gorsky would be stepping
down from his role as Executive Chairman.
shown that robust corporate practices, disciplined
leadership and a values-driven culture is a winning • During the annual review of how the Board evaluates and
mix, underpinning long-term value creation for our mitigates risk, we concluded that our Regulatory Compliance
shareholders, patients, customers, partners and our & Sustainability Committee was best positioned to oversee
employees around the world. As we move into the next certain ESG matters alongside other complementary compliance
era of our Company’s history with the separation of matters. In turn, the Science & Technology Committee now
our Consumer Health business, this reliable legacy of oversees medical safety and devotes even greater attention to
doing the right things in the right way positions us well the Company’s product pipeline and evaluation of innovative
to continue to deliver on Our Purpose of profoundly technologies. This restructuring helps ensure that our governance
changing the future of health for humanity. structure reflects the most important issues and opportunities
facing Johnson & Johnson.
• The collaboration between the Compensation & Benefits
Liz Forminard Committee and the Audit Committee of the Board was formalized
Executive Vice President, General Counsel, to ensure that incentives and compensation are appropriately
Johnson & Johnson
aligned with financial performance and Our Credo.
77Tax Responsibility61 GRI 207-1, 207-2, 207-3, 207-4
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
First published in 1943, Our Credo stipulates that paying taxes is our responsibility to the communities
in which we live and work. Johnson & Johnson is committed to paying our fair share of taxes.
Our tax footprint evolves over time and reflects our healthcare Total Taxes Collected: Additionally, in 2022 Johnson & Johnson
Taxes Taxes
2022 Tax Contribution (Billions)
activities and investments, including in research and development Borne Collected collected $6.0 billion related to the commerce the Company
and manufacturing. What has not changed or wavered is our generates. These collections were in the form of payroll and social
commitment to good corporate citizenship, which we demonstrate Corporate income tax $5.2‡ — insurance taxes from approximately 153,700 employees across the
through sustainable values and behaviors relating to tax world, sales and use taxes and value-added taxes. These taxes are
governance, compliance, planning, risk management, relationship Payroll & social insurance taxes $1.6‡ $4.9‡ collected on behalf of governments from employees, customers
with governmental authorities and transparency, which are more and other business partners. Taxes Collected are an important part
fully described in our Johnson & Johnson Tax Policy. This Tax Policy of the measure of the contribution made by Johnson & Johnson
Sales/use & other taxes $0.9‡ $1.1‡
was updated in 2022 to provide greater transparency regarding our through job creation and business activities in the many countries
tax governance, compliance, tax planning and incentives. in which we operate.
Total $7.7‡ $6.0‡
In 2022, Johnson & Johnson contributed approximately $13.7
billion in taxes and fees to governments and economies around the
Total tax contribution $13.7‡
world. This Total Tax Contribution is made up of two components:
Total Taxes Borne by the Company and Total Taxes Collected.
Tax Responsibility ‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants and Management’s Assertion.
Taxes Borne are a direct cost to the Company, whereas Taxes
Collected are collected from customers and employees on behalf
Total Taxes Borne: In 2022, Johnson & Johnson bore $7.7 billion in
of governments and ultimately remitted to them.
taxes around the world. The taxes include corporate income taxes,
the Company’s share of payroll and social insurance taxes and the
Our intent is to provide a comprehensive view of total taxes paid
Company’s share of sales and other taxes. Sales taxes include sales,
around the world. Corporate Income Tax represents payments
use and non-recoverable value-added tax. Other taxes are primarily
in all markets in which we operate and is the amount reported
comprised of customs and other duties such as local taxes and
as Income Taxes Paid in the 2022 Annual Report. Other taxes
special fees related to the pharmaceutical industry.
shown aggregate the Company’s data from 22 major markets that
represent the vast majority of our revenues. We aspire to include all
markets in future years.
61 The tax information contained in this section is intended to provide the reader with an overview of all taxes contributed by Johnson & Johnson, and not just income taxes. It
should be read in conjunction with the Company’s tax information filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including in the most recently filed Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q and Annual Report on Form 10-K. This tax information is supplemental to, and not a substitute for, the information reported in the Company’s SEC filings. 78Ethics & Compliance GRI 2-27, 205-2, 206-1, 417-1, 417-2, 417-3, J&J22-3, J&J22-4
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
The values that guide our decision-making are spelled out in Our Credo, which guides us to act
ethically and within the laws that govern our businesses everywhere and at all times. Supported by Corporate Heroes Interactive Games strengthened our
culture of accountability during Compliance Week 2022.
comprehensive policies, procedures and training programs, everyone at Johnson & Johnson knows
the value of doing the right thing.
We embed Our Credo values throughout our Company to ensure statistically reliable for a third year in a row. This indicates that critical
all employees and contingent workers know their responsibilities thinking was required to answer the Enterprise HCC Annual Training
to act in accordance with applicable laws, regulations and industry assessment questions correctly and that passing the assessment
codes, as well as the Company’s internal standards and expectations was not simply the result of guesswork.
for ethical and compliant conduct. We use our biennial Our Credo
Survey to assess how our values come to life across the Enterprise,
which is supplemented in alternate years by the Our Voice Survey, 105,000 97%
which monitors employee sentiment related to many topics, including
employees completed of sales and marketing
ethical business conduct.
HCC training. employees completed
HCC training.
Building on Our Credo values, Our Code of Business Conduct (CBC) Compliance-Related
Investigations and Responsible 2022 2021 2020
and Health Care Compliance (HCC) policies list comprehensive
Marketing Indicators
ethical standards for decisions and actions in every market where
we operate. Mandatory CBC training is conducted every two years,
Ethics & Compliance Number of compliance-related
In 2022, the Johnson & Johnson 749‡ 661 559
and HCC training is conducted each year. All new employees are allegations investigated
Enterprise HCC Annual Training
assigned and required to complete CBC, HCC and other relevant
Measuring Effectiveness Percentage of compliance-related allegations
required training.
methodology was awarded the investigated by category
prestigious Brandon Hall Gold
Aspects of ethics and compliance we advanced in 2022 included:
Award for “Best Advance in Healthcare compliance 55%‡ 48% 41%
Compliance Training,” along with
Updating our compliance framework: We revised our HCC
a Silver Award for “Best Advance
Framework to provide updated practical guidance on compliance Financial 36%‡ 43% 51%
in Learning Measurement.”
with HCC guidelines based on the “Ten Hallmarks of an Effective
Compliance Program” of the U.S. Department of Justice and to
Other 9%‡ 9% 8%
highlight specific focus on the role of our business leaders in setting
a strong message at the top and continuing to drive a culture of Reinforcing our culture of accountability: Throughout 2022, our
Number of warning letters or
accountability throughout our organization. communication and training efforts focused on strengthening untitled letters issued by OPDP or 0 0 0
the culture of accountability with several initiatives, including APLB in the U.S.*
Annual compliance training: Our Enterprise HCC Annual Training communications from leadership; ethical leadership workshops using
encompasses the foundations of compliance using role-based situational cases; and training to assist in preventing, detecting and ‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants and Management’s Assertion and
PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants in previous Health for Humanity Reports.
topics and scenarios to drive training effectiveness. We design correcting non-compliant behavior, as well as the Compliance Week * OPDP: Office of Prescription Drug Promotion; APLB: Advertising and Promotional
our training with the objective of ensuring learning is achieved, 2022 Initiative containing interactive games, contests, and appealing Labeling Branch of the FDA Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research.
incorporating interactive challenges and a final assessment. We communication materials to support culture-building initiatives under
evaluate learning transfer using our proprietary methodology, and the tagline “People Follow People.”
in 2022, our evaluation showed that learning transfer proved to be
792022 Health for
Johnson & Johnson was named in 2022 for the fifth consecutive and data transparency; conducted workshops on bioethics
Humanity Report Inquiries and Complaints
year to the CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate Political Disclosure principles; and launched a bioethics-related mentoring program for
as Recorded With
2022 2021 2020 and Accountability with Trendsetter status. employees. JJBC members undertook professional ethics training
Our Credo Integrity
Line by Category* with Fellowships at Auschwitz for the Study of Professional Ethics
Independent assessment of external research proposals: (FASPE). In addition, OCMO sponsored the Harvard Multi-Regional
Human Resources-related 71%‡ 55% 51% Since 2014, we have been working with the Yale University Open Clinical Trials Bioethics Collaborative; a bioethics colloquium
Data Access (YODA) Project to enable a consistent approach for convened by NYU and the New York Academy of Sciences; and
Business integrity-related 11%‡ 14% 12% the independent assessment of external research proposals co-founded and co-chairs the Bioethics Community within DIA,
requesting the use of clinical trial data generated by Johnson & a global organization advancing life sciences networks.
Other (privacy, information Johnson companies. As of 2022, 301 research proposals have been
security, general security, 6%‡ 9% 11% reviewed and 85 articles published using data shared through the Promoting animal welfare: Research involving animals has led
EH&S, etc.)
YODA Project, enabling researchers to create new insights that to major medical advances and will continue to be an important
General information advance science and medicine and lead to improvements in public part of further discoveries until viable non-animal alternatives are
3%‡ 8% 10%
questions health. Johnson & Johnson continues to demonstrate its support developed and accepted. Year after year, we utilize non-animal
of expanding the reach of clinical trial data and, in 2022, joined alternatives whenever possible and work with regulatory bodies to
Financial-related 4%‡ 7% 14%
the Vivli Antimicrobial Resistance Surveillance Data Register gain acceptance of appropriate non-animal alternatives. Johnson &
(see section: Antimicrobial Resistance). Johnson is committed to the 3Rs principles for the ethical treatment
Not
Human rights-related 1%‡ 5% of animals involved in biomedical research—replacing, reducing
reported
and refining their use whenever possible. Our Global Animal
Product quality- and Welfare Officer is responsible for ensuring adherence to and
3%‡ 2% 2% We collaborate with NYU School of Medicine to support
patient safety-related
monitoring our animal welfare standards, supported by many R&D
Janssen decision making for investigational medicine
professionals who are certified in different aspects of veterinary
‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants and Management’s Assertion and requests, also known as “compassionate use” or “pre-
Ethics & Compliance PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants in previous Health for Humanity Reports. medicine and animal welfare.
* Johnson & Johnson Triage Committee and case investigators have the ability to approval access.” The Compassionate Use Advisory
change the issue type of the cases upon receipt in Our Credo Integrity Line. This Committee (CompAC), comprising ethicists, physicians
occurred for no more than 16% of cases in 2022. As part of our commitment to the ethical and humane treatment of
and patient representatives independently selected by
laboratory animals under our care, we hold an annual 3Rs awards
The Our Credo Integrity Line provides a channel for all employees, NYU, provides recommendations to Janssen on pre-
program to recognize our teams’ outstanding achievements in
contractors, customers, third-party agencies and other partners to approval access plans and individual requests received
replacing, reducing and refining the use of animals in the fields of
report potential violations of the CBC, other Company policies or at Janssen. CompAC affirms Johnson & Johnson’s
biomedical research, education or training. In 2022, the winning
the applicable laws and regulations in the countries of operation. commitment to ensuring a transparent, ethical and
innovation advanced the use of donated human cadavers to avoid
The 2022 increase in Human Resources inquiries and complaints objective approach to reviewing compassionate use
animal use in HCP training on medical devices.
to Our Credo Integrity Line is a result of a period of significant requests. Since 2015, Janssen has provided access to
organizational change. almost 8,000 patients globally through its Pre-Approval We are transparent about our animal welfare practice and engage
Access (PAA) Program. In 2022, we further advanced widely to inform, share and work toward improving public policy
Continuous improvement in anti-corruption controls: We aim to
transparency by providing, for the first time, a list of on animal testing. For example, in 2022, Janssen’s Beerse site
achieve continuous improvement vigilance, governance, controls and
potential treatment options available per country or in Belgium welcomed the Animal Welfare Committee from the
processes to prevent corruption in any part of our business. Following
territory on Janssen.com. Flemish Parliament and a number of other stakeholders from the
our completion of the Transparency International UK (TI-UK) Corporate
life sciences ecosystem. Visitors toured the animal facilities and
Anti-Corruption Benchmark in 2022, a comprehensive self-assessment
engaged in discussions around Janssen’s animal welfare policy
tool that measures and compares the performance of anti-corruption
and alternatives that could reduce animal testing.
programs across companies, we continued to engage in quarterly Keeping bioethics on the agenda: Our Office of the Chief Medical
meetings with TI-UK and other companies participating in the Officer (OCMO) sponsors the Johnson & Johnson Bioethics 100% of facilities with animals have veterinary oversight. 100%
benchmark to share insights and discuss best practices. Committee (JJBC), which advises our global teams on ethical issues, of sites with animals are accredited by AAALAC International.
in alignment with our Ethical Code of Conduct for R&D. In 2022, the
JJBC continued to advise many Johnson & Johnson teams on ethical
L earn more about our anti-corruption disclosures (NBIM)
questions related to research, access to investigational medicines
in our 2022 ESG Disclosure Index.
80Human Rights GRI 402-1, 406, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1, 412-1, 412-2
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Guided by Our Credo values, we respect and promote human rights across our operations, through
our business relationships and in the communities in which we operate.
The risk of modern slavery in supply chains is critical
for companies to consider in their approach to
Focus Areas: In line with the UNGPs, we focus our efforts in areas The Regulatory Compliance & Sustainability Committee (RCSC) of respecting human rights. We have been working
where the potential and actual risk of adverse human rights impacts the Board of Directors provides oversight of management’s approach in collaboration with Johnson & Johnson on its
linked to our business is most significant. In 2022, we established a to respecting human rights. In 2022, the RCSC received an update due diligence approach to identify and respond to
four-pillar framework to guide our human rights priority focus areas outlining the continued evolution of the Company’s approach to potential modern slavery risks in the supply base.
and related action plans. human rights and external regulatory and stakeholder developments.
Improving human rights due diligence: We continually evolve and Rosey Hurst
strengthen our broad-based human rights due diligence process. Founder and Commercial Director, Impactt
In 2022, we worked with ERM, an independent sustainability
Fair Working Conditions consultancy, to develop a risk identification tool to better identify Maintaining a living wage: In line with our commitment to fair
Ensuring fair working conditions for Johnson & Johnson geographies and sites at a potentially higher risk of adverse human working conditions, we continued in 2022 to implement an annual
employees and engaging our suppliers to do the same rights impacts within Johnson & Johnson’s own operations and living wage assessment in collaboration with Business for Social
across our supply base facilities. The tool will be deployed in 2023 to prioritize targeted Responsibility (BSR) to ensure employees in all the countries in which
due diligence reviews. In our supply base, we continued to assess we operate receive pay that is both market competitive and sufficient
Access to Healthcare
human rights risks in our supply chain through the use of tools such to attain a sustainable standard of living. As in previous years, we
Advancing sustainable and equitable access to medicines
as EcoVadis self-assessments from suppliers in our SSP and supplier made a small number of wage adjustments in countries to ensure our
and medical solutions that save and improve lives, cure
patients and prevent disease for those in need audits. We also updated our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers living wage standards were met.
(RSS), which strengthened guidance on how suppliers should
Human Rights Safe, Effective Products Capability building: All Johnson & Johnson employees and certain
establish policies and management systems to identify and address
categories of contingent workers are assigned and required to
Providing patients, consumers and healthcare providers human rights impacts, and we provided training for suppliers on the
with products that are as effective and safe as possible complete the Code of Business Conduct training, available in 27
RSS updates (see section: Supplier Engagement).
at every stage of product development, manufacturing, languages, every two years. This training includes guidance related
supply chain and commercialization We prohibit the use of any forced or bonded labor in the manufacture to human rights. Furthermore, our Foundational Human Rights
Sustainable Environment of any product, or any component of a product, as outlined in our Learning and Education course is available to all employees globally.
Anti-Human Trafficking Policy and Employment of Young Persons At the end of 2022, more than 3,400 employees and contingent
Improving the environmental footprint of our operations,
our products and value chain, while also integrating Policy. In 2022, we established an Anti-Modern Slavery work stream workers key to our human rights program had completed the module.
human rights considerations into our environmental to advance our due diligence efforts in this area. We worked with
In 2022, 93% of Johnson & Johnson Procurement employees
policies and programs Impactt—a consulting firm specializing in ethical trade and human
completed mandatory human rights training.
rights—to support us in developing a suite of modern slavery due
diligence materials such as training materials, a supplier assessment
Collaborating to advance human rights: We continue to
questionnaire and investigation guidelines. We also integrated Verisk
participate in various external platforms to share insights and
Maplecroft risk indicators on Modern Slavery into our Supplier Risk
good practices across industry, including Shift’s Business
Governance: Johnson & Johnson’s Enterprise Human Rights
Management system to identify potentially higher-risk suppliers. This
Learning Program, BSR’s Human Rights Working Group and the
Governance Council (EHRGC), established in 2019, is comprised of a
work will inform further due diligence in 2023.
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative Human Rights and Labor
cross-functional group of senior leaders representing key functions
Working Group.
and oversees the Company’s approach to human rights, including
setting priority focus areas and implementing action plans on an
annual basis. The EHRGC is supported with direction and guidance Learn more about our approach and frameworks to respecting human rights in our Position on Human Rights, our Responsibility Standards
from our Chief Sustainability Officer and our Worldwide Vice for Suppliers and related ESG Policies & Positions. For our grievance mechanism, see section Ethics & Compliance.
President of Legal Strategy Operations and Risk Management.
81Product Quality GRI 416-2, J&J 22-8, SASB HC-BP-250a.3, HC-BP-250a.5, HC-MS-250a.1, HC-MS-250a.4
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Johnson & Johnson reaches patients and consumers across the world with our medicines, medical
technologies and consumer health products. Their safety when using our products is a critical priority for
Johnson & Johnson: We insist on quality and safety at every stage of product development, manufacturing,
supply chain and commercialization.
Quality management
Product Quality
2022 2021 2020
Indicators
Our commitment to quality, safety and reliability is the basis for
We have a bold ambition to be at the leading edge in everything we do. Our Quality Policies and Quality Standards cover Number of FDA warning
0 0 0
our industry with a quality and compliance organization the lifecycle of our products from R&D to the patient and consumer letters issued
enabled by a fully connected digital ecosystem and experience. They provide a framework and common foundation of
Product recall rate* by business segment
highly competent people who are skilled in managing quality expectations and help ensure a reliable supply of high-quality
and addressing all aspects of the quality spectrum. The products across all our business segments in the markets we serve.
Pharmaceutical 0.003%‡ 0% 0%
future of healthcare will increasingly rely upon digital
In 2022, our Quality & Compliance organization led several
solutions, and we have been continually evolving our
improvements in our quality and compliance practices, including:
systems and our teams to embrace digital technology MedTech 0.005%‡ 0.059% 0.034%
that support consistent quality, compliance and positive
Transforming quality processes with digital solutions: Many tasks in
experiences with our products for patients, consumers Quality & Compliance are transactional, and to date, much employee Consumer Health Self- 0%‡ 0% 0%
and customers. Care OTC**
time has been spent on manual processes. Automating manual tasks
by applying intelligent analytical tools allows employees to tackle
‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants and Management’s Assertion and
higher-value tasks such as data-driven proactive decision making PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants in previous Health for Humanity Reports.
Product Quality * Product recall rate is defined as the number of lots removed from market per total
Carol Montandon and assessing larger data sets to further advance preventive quality globally manufactured, based on field action removals where it has been determined
Global Vice President, Chief Quality Officer, management and create valuable product and patient insights. internally by a Quality Review Board, and aligned by Johnson & Johnson Enterprise
Compliance, that there is a reasonable probability that the product may cause
Johnson & Johnson We continued to progress the digital transformation of our quality temporary or medically reversible adverse health consequences and, in certain cases,
will cause serious adverse health consequences. ** The Pharmaceutical and MedTech
process and management systems in several ways, including:
recall rates consider all products in each business segment. The Consumer Health
product quality recall rate is inclusive of Consumer Health products from the Self-Care
• Installed a new data portal to increase access to Quality & over-the-counter (OTC) business segment.
Compliance data sources and improve agility through quality
Reinforcing our commitment to quality, all employees insights, analytical data tools and dashboards across all business
are required to take our interactive e-Learning Quality segments.
Management Framework course. The course informs
• Achieved considerable efficiencies through the automation of
employees about our quality management systems and
manual processes, enabled by IA applications, in combination
provides examples of roles and responsibilities that help
with data insights and natural language processing solutions.
maintain quality across Johnson & Johnson and how
everyone, in every role, should play a part. • Developed new digital tools to assist in simplifying and improving
the quality of literature, document and report reviews; capturing
product insights from complaints; improving product release
cycle time through transparency planning and managing sample
and process flows.
822022 Health for
Refreshing our Quality & Compliance Competency Model: Introducing a new quality model for better customer experience: Employees around Johnson & Johnson engaged with our Quality
Humanity Report
This model prioritizes upskilling our people to prepare them for Customer Experience Engineering (CxE) is a new proactive Month in multiple in-person and virtual events across all our
proactive and capable quality management in a digitally enabled quality model and capability that supports the involvement of our communication channels.
future. It encourages employees to actively participate in their Quality & Compliance organization in technical improvements for
individual career journey and promotes a culture of continuous products and services. CxE focuses entirely on the experiences
and innovative learning. of our customers and is led by internal Quality experts who can
make a practical contribution to solving product challenges. With
several projects in the pipeline, CxE promises to help transform the
experience of patients, physicians and surgeons by enhancing our
product and delivery quality with tangible customer outcomes. For
Johnson & Johnson’s Quality & Compliance example, in 2022, the Quality & Compliance CxE team engaged
Competency Model has two core categories, with the J&J MedTech DePuy Synthes team to solve a challenge
nine core competencies and four proficiency levels relating to its PUREVUE Visualization System, which is used for
per competency. arthroscopic procedures. When the system’s camera lens began
to fog up during procedures, temporarily clouding the visualization
of the operating area, the CxE team visited surgeons to witness
the issue in real time in operating rooms and contributed to a
new design solution that significantly improved the temporary
visualization issue.
Employees from Janssen India engaged in Quality Month. From left to right:
Mahadev Desai, Shivani Ganesh Nalavade and Saurabh Dole.
Reimagining Quality Month: Our theme for 2022 Quality Month
was “Digitally Enabled End-to-End Quality,” which was supported
by weekly topics that encouraged our global sites to focus on
critical Quality & Compliance initiatives:
Product Quality • Digital transformation: Using digital to enable our employees,
customers and patients.
• Strategy: Leading the way in end-to-end patient, consumer
and customer experiences enabled by a fully integrated
digital ecosystem.
• Innovation: Innovating through the use of digital tools to
enhance customer success.
• Learning: Driving learning and engagement beyond Quality
Month to build a digitally enabled workforce for the future.
The Quality & Compliance Capability Framework, including the
Competency Model, developed with wide collaboration across
Johnson & Johnson, is aligned with our Enterprise approach to
Judith Boateng and Katherine Buitrago participate
learning and development and provides an advanced platform to
in Quality Month from our Raritan, New Jersey site.
ensure our employees are developing within the critical capabilities
needed most to deliver on our Quality & Compliance strategic goals,
including strengthening the Quality & Compliance talent pipeline.
83Medical Safety GRI 416-1
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
At Johnson & Johnson, we recognize our fundamental responsibility is to provide patients, consumers surgeons and regulators. These studies are important to provide
information on the safety and effectiveness of these devices,
and healthcare providers with products that are as effective and safe as possible. We take an evidence-
which provide life-changing healthcare for thousands of patients
and science-based, ethics- and values-driven approach to medical safety, putting patient and
in different parts of the world.
consumer well-being first and foremost in our decision making and actions.
Janssen participated, along with industry experts and
regulators, in the International Council for Harmonisation of
Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use
The Office of the Chief Medical Officer (OCMO) is a global,
(ICH) Expert Working Group on development of the ICH E19
functionally independent group of medical and scientific
Guideline that aims to support large-scale efficacy and safety
professionals working across Johnson & Johnson to guide
clinical trials.
excellence in product safety and development across our three At Johnson & Johnson, leading OCMO provides me
business segments. We apply our expertise in safety science, and our entire team with the opportunity to make a
Advancing the safety of children: The safety of children has
epidemiology and bioethics to inform evidence- and science-based far-reaching and lasting contribution to improving
always been a priority for Johnson & Johnson in R&D and across
product decisions that put people first. OCMO also chairs the patients’ lives by delivering the most advanced
our OTC medicines. Achievements in 2022 include:
Pharmaceutical Development Committee, which reviews product methods to assure product safety in our Company
development plans to ensure that our products address unmet and across our industry. • Treatment for children suffering from active psoriatic arthritis
needs and benefit the people who will ultimately use them. (PsA): OCMO’s Child Health Innovation Leadership Department
(CHILD) supported Janssen’s clinical development team in the
Our Healthcare for Women 2025 Goal reflects the growing
design and execution of a pediatric safety study to evaluate the
William N. Hait, M.D., Ph.D.
importance of RWD in improving health outcomes.
safety of a new treatment option for pediatric patients with active
Executive Vice President, Chief External Innovation
and Medical Officer, Johnson & Johnson PsA. The generated data, now in our label, supported a much-
needed treatment option to enable children suffering from PsA
Health for Humanity 2025 Goals
to live a fuller life.
OCMO, in collaboration with many internal and external groups,
Medical Safety advanced multiple initiatives to improve medical safety, including
• Spearheading medication safety and education: Health
education programs can help families protect small children
innovative RWD methods to generate reliable real-world evidence
from accidental unsupervised ingestion of medicines, a frequent
about patient health outcomes across numerous initiatives
occurrence that often requires emergency treatment. In 2022,
spanning pharmaceutical products, vaccines, medical devices and
OCMO collaborated with Young Minds Inspired to develop
Consumer Health products. Highlights of this work in 2022 include:
Progress in Healthcare for Women educational resources to teach youth about OTC medicine safety,
Achieved publication in nine original publications of insights Improving access to critical medical devices using RWD: We worked with the nonprofit Safe Kids Worldwide to implement
based on real-world data points representing more than 27 conducted RWD studies to inform clinical and regulatory safety a medication safety program with tools and tips for parents
million women, with a research focus in two main areas: decision making in two key areas: evaluating the safety of our about safe storage and dosing of medicine and continued to
1. M aternal health racial equity. TFN-ADVANCED Proximal Femoral Nailing System compared advance safe pill storage innovation in collaboration with the
2. Sex as a biologic variable, as women have traditionally been to other nail implants to treat hip fractures and evaluating the CDC PROTECT Initiative and QuickFire Challenge Awardee
underrepresented in medical research. potential risk of cancer and reproductive issues associated with Gatekeeper Innovation Inc. The winning QuickFire Challenge
Primary contributing publications include the following studies: cobalt-containing devices. Our work in both areas generated concept, which reinvented the traditional pill minder for improved
New Jersey maternal mortality dashboard: an Interactive social- extensive evidence of comparative safety of both TFN-ADVANCED safety, functionality and patient adherence, is anticipated for
determinants-of-health tool (27 million+ data points representing and cobalt-containing products being confirmed as safe to use in commercialization in 2023.
female residents) and Sex differences in sequelae from COVID-19 patients, which we supported with the publication of six papers
Infection and in long COVID Syndrome: a review (600,000+ in peer-reviewed journals to drive transparency among patients,
female participants).
842022 Health for
Promoting maternal health: OCMO supported the advancement • Improving maternal health outcomes for Black women through Talc safety: We continue to address allegations that JOHNSON’S
Humanity Report
of maternal health and maternal health equity in the U.S. through several activities that included initiating an effort to design a Baby Powder can cause adverse health effects. We sympathize
continued guidance to clinical teams in conducting evidence- care model that reimagines the role of the front office staff as deeply with patients and their families and appreciate that they are
generation activities that include women, as well as pregnant and patient connectors, advocates and critical members of the care seeking answers. However, the science and the facts show that
lactating women, and collective action to close the Black maternal team; initiating an effort to elevate representation of Black people their illnesses were not caused by their use of our talcum-based
health equity gap. Through this work, we are accelerating sex- in medical illustrations; and continuing to advance multiple products. For more information, please see factsabouttalc.com.
disaggregated data, uncovering insights that can improve care pilot projects to investigate the creation of digital tools to help
Talc transition: In 2022, Johnson & Johnson Consumer Health
and outcomes for women and offering evidence so that pregnant advance maternal healthcare services for Black women and
made the commercial decision to transition to an all cornstarch-
people and their providers can make informed decisions about the birthing people.
based baby powder portfolio as part of a larger portfolio
safe use of Johnson & Johnson products. Recent examples include:
Enhancing the patient voice in clinical studies: We are co-leading assessment. As a result of this transition, talc-based JOHNSON’S
• Accelerating women-centric science by further shifting from the Innovative Medicines Initiative PREFER project, a five-year Baby Powder will be discontinued globally in 2023.
sex-biased to more sex-inclusive science and data to provide
project to establish recommendations for industry regulatory
treatment and innovation that is specifically tailored for women.
authorities and Health Technology Assessment bodies on how and
OCMO collaborated with different groups within Johnson &
when to use patient preferences on benefits and risks of medicinal
Johnson to provide sex-differentiated analyses on immunologic,
products in decision making. Johnson & Johnson serves on the
neurologic and other conditions to understand the experiences
PREFER steering committee, and in 2022, we closely supported
that men and women have and how altering the approach to
two achievements:
treatment might enhance the health of both sexes. Through
our Healthcare for Women Health for Humanity 2025 Goal, • PREFER released a detailed framework and recommendations for
industry, regulators and health technology assessment bodies on
we delivered nine publications that provide sex-differentiated
the assessment and use of patient preferences in medical product
analyses for long COVID, psoriasis and other conditions.
decision making.
• Advancing pregnancy and lactation science through the
Johnson & Johnson Pregnancy and Lactation Advisory Group • The PREFER framework received formal qualification from
the EMA and the European Network for Health Technology
(JJ-PAL), composed of experts across 14 functions to support
Assessment (EUnetHTA).
the planning of evidence-generation activities in pregnant
Medical Safety and lactating people. JJ-PAL progressed in several areas in
The EMA qualification of the PREFER framework is significant
2022, including nine internal consultations to product teams
because it will enable a more explicit pathway for stakeholders to
to help improve designing and interpreting evidence related
engage with the EMA on conducting patient-focused, structured
to safe use of medication during pregnancy or lactation;
benefit-risk assessments. It will also help to grow the acceptability
delivering a searchable inventory of global RWD sources for
of such studies as part of clinical and regulatory decisions around
studying medication use during pregnancy and lactation; co-
the world.
chairing a National Academy of Science, Engineering, and
Medicine Workshop to facilitate inclusion of pregnant and In 2022, we co-authored a new report from the Council for
lactating people in clinical research; and initiating a survey of International Organizations of Medical Sciences (CIOMS) with
pregnant, postpartum and lactating persons in the U.S. to better recommendations to involve patients throughout the lifecycle
understand opportunities for increased inclusion of pregnant of medicines.
and lactating people in clinical trials.
85Counterfeiting & Illicit Trade GRI J&J22-5, SASB HC-BP-260a.1, SASB HC-MS-430a.2
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
For Johnson & Johnson, trade in counterfeit products is enormously concerning. Counterfeit healthcare
products place people—the very people we aim to help—at risk of adverse events, serious health problems
and potentially death. Fake medical products undermine confidence in product quality, safety and reliability,
which, at Johnson & Johnson, are at the center of everything we do.
We constantly strive to adopt new ways of monitoring and detecting In 2022, we conducted 104 training sessions that led to 24 Ongoing, we continue to deploy holistic brand protection
illicit trade through enhanced product security and analytics. related seizures of illicit trade shipments in various regions. programs to enhance our value chain integrity and to disrupt
Advanced technologies are critical in addressing the growing the illicit supply chain. We partner internally across functions
During 2022, we continued to reinforce our programs and engage
sophistication of illicit trade, especially in online marketplaces. Our and also engage widely in an array of national and international
widely across our markets, including with regulatory bodies, to
24/7 online monitoring includes more than 780 global marketplaces, trade groups, industry alliances, organizations, law enforcement
protect our patients by combating fake products and illicit trade.
108 dark web locations, 24 social media sites and more than agencies, educational coalitions and other groups that share our
For example, throughout the first half of 2022, Johnson & Johnson
294,000 unique domains. We investigate bad actors and seek to determination to eliminate counterfeiting globally.
was actively involved in an investigation into a counterfeit HIV
stop the flow of illicit trade by sharing relevant information with law
medication ring and filed suit against a number of distributors
enforcement to assist in tracking down and prosecuting those who
and pharmacies who were involved with this scheme. On June 17,
are endangering patients through illicit trading activities.
the U.S. Department of Justice (DoJ) announced the arrest and
Fake medicines kill almost 500,000 sub-Saharan Africans a year.62 indictments of two individuals for allegedly distributing more than
$230 million in adulterated HIV drugs to unsuspecting patients
across the U.S. We continue to engage with the DoJ and law
enforcement in ongoing investigations.
Guided by Our Credo, we aim to safeguard patients and J&J MedTech’s Ethicon created a compelling educational
our brand reputation against the risks posed by illicit campaign targeting healthcare facilities to raise awareness about
trade, which includes product counterfeiting, tampering risks of counterfeit medical devices to patients and how to prevent
Counterfeiting & Illicit Trade
and illegal diversion. Protecting patients and consumers their introduction into the supply chain. Informational materials
against counterfeit versions of our products is essential were distributed and promoted by Ethicon’s sales force using
in promoting worldwide access to beneficial healthcare various channels; for example, Ethicon presented information
and our genuine Johnson & Johnson products. about how the illegal gray market is a conduit to counterfeit
products to 1,300 attendees at the American Society for Healthcare
Risk Management (ASHRM) 2022 Annual Conference. This was
Taira Bell the first time this topic had ever been presented at ASHRM to an
Vice President, Global Brand Protection, influential audience of healthcare risk professionals, and we hope
Johnson & Johnson this will lead to further engagement and collaboration to combat
illicit trade.
We continue to record our trademarks with customs and border
protection agencies to help eliminate illicit versions of our products
from crossing borders around the world. We conduct specialized
training for various national and international law enforcement
agencies across the globe.
62 United Nations News, “Fake medicines kill almost 500,000 sub-Saharan Africans a year: UNODC report,” https://news.un.org/en/story/2023/02/1133062, accessed February 2023. 86Information Security & Data Privacy GRI 418-1
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
We believe in maintaining a proactive information security strategy to protect information assets laws and multiple privacy and data security legal regulations in
China. We also supported data science and digital initiatives,
against deliberate or inadvertent threats to safeguard our business.
including defining standards for anonymization, pseudonymization
and de-identification, to increase our ability to compliantly leverage
data insights and promote digital health solutions in our sectors.
We improved the robustness of our information security and
We made progress on various key privacy processes designed to
privacy programs in 2022 in the following ways:
consistently support the rights of consumers and patients for the
management of their personal data and delivered privacy support
Enhancing protection against cyber risk in critical
Ensuring availability of critical systems and preventing
pharmaceutical research: We improved the cyber posture of to ensure successful completion of major deals.
unintended or unauthorized access to business and
multiple Pharmaceutical R&D sites, deploying additional cyber
personal information is foundational to our business Reinforcing our cybersecurity and privacy frameworks: To ensure
capabilities to protect both systems and data. These actions
continuity and the people who rely on Johnson & Johnson continuous evaluation and enhancement of the Johnson & Johnson
improved the protection of Company IP and the resilience of
each day. cybersecurity program, we periodically undertake program
our R&D environments in meeting the needs of our healthcare
maturity assessments and pursue security certifications. By way
partners and patients, reduced the potential for R&D to
of example, in 2022, we engaged an independent third party to
be negatively affected by a cyber event and increased the
Gary Harbison conduct a maturity assessment against the NIST Cybersecurity
protection of Company IP. New capabilities included technology
Chief Information Security Officer (CISO), Framework, providing a current view of program maturity and
implementations in research and laboratory environments to
Johnson & Johnson areas for continued improvement. We also obtained ISO 27001
provide increased visibility to the security posture of R&D systems
certification for the environment supporting the Johnson &
and detection of potential cyber threats.
Johnson CAR-T immunotherapy offering in EMEA, extending the
Similarly, Johnson & Johnson is committed to data privacy and
Expanding cyber capabilities: Through both investments in new number of certifications we hold for a range of Company products.
ensuring that protecting personal information is integral to our core
capabilities and strategic partnerships, we improved the security In parallel, we monitor the introduction of new standards such as
way of operating. In addition to our Code of Business Conduct and
of company products, data and systems. Our initiatives included ISO 31700 covering Privacy by Design, which was released in early
compliance with the laws that apply to our operating companies’
a strategic investment in technology from an industry-leading 2023, to evaluate the requirements and technical controls needed
handling of personal information, we maintain robust data privacy
security provider to enhance the security of our medical device for the certification process.
controls to protect the personal information of our employees,
product suite, the deployment of new capabilities supporting
customers, partners and all those who entrust their information to us. Enhancing cyber awareness: Through 2022, we offered our
continued adoption of zero trust principles for increased
Information Security & Data Privacy employees around the globe various opportunities to improve their
cyber protection of both the Company and our customers and
cyber awareness and learn more about smart cyber practices in
deployment of advanced AI-supported tools to better detect and
innovative ways. One example is our CyberEscape online escape
block security threats.
rooms, which attracted hundreds of employees who worked in teams
The complex patchwork of compliance obligations and Protecting personal information: We continued our commitment to solve a series of basic cyber challenges and puzzles in different
active regulatory enforcement in many international to protecting personal information of our consumers, clinical escape room scenarios, raising their cybersecurity knowledge.
markets imposes greater demands on data protection and research participants and employees, expanding our efforts
Additionally, alongside our ongoing information security and privacy
cyber professionals to design the right type of governance to ensure compliance with growing legal and regulatory data
training for all employees, in 2022, we expanded our Johnson &
models and solutions to ensure that Johnson & Johnson protection requirements that broaden the protection of individual
Johnson PhishSmarts phishing simulation program. This program
can compliantly pursue its data-related initiatives across data subject rights. At the same time, we continued to participate
provides quarterly simulated phishing emails and follow-up to help
the globe. in industry associations and external forums to help shape new
employees better detect real phishing attempts and defend against
regulations under review on cross-border data flows, data
phishing email threats, which pose a potential risk to our organization.
localization and other healthcare initiatives in the privacy and
Winston Khoo cybersecurity space. Focus areas in 2022 included establishing
Chief Privacy Officer, Johnson & Johnson compliance programs for new and expanded U.S. state privacy
872022 Health for
Humanity Report
Reporting
Hub
The Reporting Hub contains the
following information:
The following downloads supplement
the 2022 Health for Humanity Report:
• G lobal Reporting Initiative (GRI)
• S ustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
• T ask Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
• N orges Bank Investment Management (NBIM)
• U N Global Compact (UNGC); see our annual
Communication on Progress.
Three generations of women in STEM share their knowledge and experiences on how to inspire more girls to pursue careers
in science and technology, reduce existing barriers and increase the number of female role models in these industries.
8888ESG Performance Data
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Financial Results
Financial Results (Millions) 2022 2021 2020 Access to Medicine 2022 2021 2020
Total sales $94,943 $93,775 $82,584 Number of products on the WHO List of
Prequalified Medicinal Products as part of its 6 6 6
Net earnings $17,941 $20,878 $14,714
Prequalification of Medicines Programme
Market price per share (year-end close) $176.65 $171.07 $157.38
Number of products on the WHO List of
R&D investment $14,603 $14,714 $12,159
Prequalified Vaccines as part of its 2 2 0
Sales by business segment1 Prequalification of Vaccine Programme
Pharmaceutical $52,563 $51,680 $45,175
MedTech $27,427 $27,060 $22,959 Darunavir Darunavir Darunavir
(ethanolate), Tablet, (ethanolate), Tablet, (ethanolate), Tablet,
Consumer Health $14,953 $15,035 $14,450 Film-coated 75mg Film-coated 75mg Film-coated 75mg
Darunavir Darunavir Darunavir
Number of consecutive years of dividend increases2 61 60 59 (ethanolate), Tablet, (ethanolate), Tablet, (ethanolate), Tablet,
ESG Performance Data Film-coated 150mg Film-coated 150mg Film-coated 150mg
1 Approximately $0.4 billion in both the fiscal 2021 and 2020, of certain international OTC products, primarily in China,
Financial Results were reclassified from the Pharmaceutical segment to the Consumer Health segment based on operational changes. List of products on the WHO List of Darunavir Darunavir Darunavir
Global Health Equity 2 Includes dividend declared in April 2023. Prequalified Medicinal Products as part of its ( Fe it lh ma -n co ol aa tt ee d), 6T 0ab 0l met g, F(e ilt mha -cn oo ala tt ee d) , 6 T 0a 0b mlet g, F(e ilt mha -cn oo ala tt ee d) , 6 T 0a 0b mlet g,
Prequalification of Medicines Programme Etravirine, Tablet, Etravirine, Tablet, Etravirine, Tablet,
Film-coated 100mg Film-coated 100mg Film-coated 100mg
Etravirine, Tablet Etravirine, Tablet Etravirine, Tablet
25mg 25mg 25mg
Mebendazole, Mebendazole, Mebendazole,
Tablets, Tablets, Chewable Tablets, Chewable
Global Health Equity
Chewable 500mg 500mg 500mg
VERMOX Donations 2022
Mvabea Mvabea
Number of VERMOX (mebendazole) doses donated (MVA-BN-Filo (MVA-BN-Filo
List of products on the WHO List of [recombinant]); [recombinant]);
Annual total (millions) 200.72◊
Prequalified Vaccines as part of its Zabdeno Zabdeno 0
Cumulative doses donated since the start of the initiative through the WHO Prequalification of Vaccine Programme (Ad26.ZEBOV-GP (Ad26.ZEBOV-GP
and private donations (billions) 2.2 [recombinant]) [recombinant])
Ebola vaccine Ebola vaccine
Number of countries where VERMOX (mebendazole) doses were donated 61
% change in average net price across U.S.
(3.5)% (2.8)% (5.7)%
product portfolio vs. prior year3
Access to Tuberculosis Treatment1, 2 2022 2021 2020
Annual number of patients receiving access to
133,636◊ 135,493 133,565
bedaquiline molecule (branded and generic)
892022 Health for
Our Giving (Millions) 2022 2021 2020
Humanity Report
Total products and cash contributed $4,292‡ $2,738 $2,567
Products contributed $3,925‡ $2,303 $2,043
Cash contributed $367‡ $435 $524
Disaster Relief (Millions)4 2022 2021 2020
Total allocated in support for immediate, mid- and long-term
response, as well as readiness, to natural disasters around $10.35 $0.29 $0.57
the world
$ worth of Johnson & Johnson product provided to communities
$23.20 $6.69 $1.86
impacted by natural disasters around the world
Global Community Impact 2022 2021 2020
Number of patients reached5 by Johnson & Johnson
Impact Ventures (JJIV) portfolio companies & funds since 2,817,991◊ 1,813,860 Not reported
date of investment
Global Health Equity
Number of HCPs supported by JJIV portfolio companies since
61,794◊ Not reported Not reported
date of investment
◊ Metric has been assured by ERM CVS. See Health for Humanity 2025 Goals Assurance.
‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants and Management's Assertion and PwC's Report of Independent Accountants in
previous Health for Humanity Reports.
1 An average of 10 people infected per one non-treated drug-resistant tuberculosis (DR-TB) patient, based on the WHO Tuberculosis
fact sheet and cure rate of 87.8% for patients treated with bedaquiline containing regimens, based on The Lancet Respiratory
Medicine, Volume 392, September 2018, pp. 821 – 34.
2 Upon review of the data and reconciliation processes, a change was needed to correct the number of courses of SIRTURO
(bedaquiline) shipped in 2021, which resulted in a reduction of 2,400 for 2021. The 2021-2022 cumulative number reflects this update.
3 Represents the year-over-year change in the average net price, which is list price less rebates, discounts and fees.
4 Product donations include only what has been confirmed in Johnson & Johnson’s internal tracking system to have been distributed
within the calendar year. This number does not always reflect donations by regional Johnson & Johnson operating companies to
local partners.
5 "Patients reached" is defined as additional individual patients, customers, or users of the healthcare products and services provided
by the companies and funds in JJIV’s investment portfolio.
90Our Employees
2022 Health for
Global Employees 2022 2021 2020
Humanity Report
Total number of employees1 153,677‡ 144,315 136,360
Women 76,874‡ 70,774 65,526
Men 76,653‡ 73,462 70,750
Declined to answer 150‡ 79 84
Region
Asia Pacific 31,322‡ 29,517 27,939
Europe, Middle East & Africa 44,473‡ 42,429 41,201
Latin America 26,053‡ 23,441 20,320
North America 51,829‡ 48,928 46,900
Gender Representation1 2022 2021 2020
Declined to Declined to Declined to
Women Men Women Men Women Men
Answer Answer Answer
Employement type
Our Employees Full-time employees 73,826‡ 76,054‡ 150‡ 67,719 72,857 79 62,276 70,078 84
Part-time employees 3,048‡ 599‡ 0‡ 3,055 605 0 3,250 672 0
Fixed-term employees2 2,784‡ 2,209‡ 9‡ 3,290 2,326 12 2,901 2,135 1
Region
Asia Pacific 49.4%‡ 50.6%‡ 0%‡ 47.4% 52.6% 0% 46.2% 53.8% 0%
Europe, Middle East & Africa3 50.7%‡ 49.3%‡ 0%‡ 50.3% 49.7% 0% 49.8% 50.2% 0%
Latin America3 54.6%‡ 45.5%‡ 0%‡ 53.3% 46.7% 0% 51.1% 48.9% 0%
North America 47.5%‡ 52.2%‡ 0.3%‡ 46.9% 52.9% 0.2% 46.3% 53.6% 0%
Job category4
Vice Presidents 41.2%‡ 58.0%‡ 0.8%‡ 38.9% 60.9% 0.2% 35.3% 64.7% 0%
Directors and Managers3 49.2%‡ 50.6%‡ 0%‡ 48.3% 51.7% 0.1% 46.8% 53.2% 0%
Professionals 51.5%‡ 48.4%‡ 0.1%‡ 50.5% 49.4% 0% 49.8% 50.2% 0%
Management and executive positions4
Women in management positions 49.0%‡ 48.0% 46.4%
Women in executive positions 38.5%‡ 14.3% 14.3%
912022 Health for
Diversity in the Board Composition5 2022 2021 2020 Ethnic/Racial Diversity in the U.S. by Job Category4 2022 2021 2020
Humanity Report
Women 50.0%‡ 35.7% 35.7% Vice Presidents
Ethnic/racial diversity 25.0%‡ 21.4% 21.4% White 68.0%‡ 70.7% 72.7%
Asian 13.7%‡ 11.7% 11.2%
Black/African American 7.3%‡ 7.3% 6.6%
Global Age Diversity 2022 2021 2020
Hispanic/Latino 8.5%‡ 8.3% 8.4%
Under 30 17.0%‡ 16.2% 14.8%
Other7 1.9%‡ 1.9% 0.9%
30 – 50 62.7%‡ 60.7% 61.9%
Declined to answer 0.6%‡ 0.1% 0.1%
51+ 20.3%‡ 22.7% 22.8%
Directors and Managers3
Declined to answer 0%‡ 0.4% 0.5%
White 63.1%‡ 64.5% 67.7%
Asian 19.6%‡ 18.3% 17.2%
Age Diversity by Job Category6 2022 2021 2020
Black/African American 6.6%‡ 6.3% 5.4%
Vice Presidents
Hispanic/Latino 8.0%‡ 7.7% 7.3%
Under 30 0%‡ 0% 0%
Other7 2.0%‡ 1.9% 1.3%
30 – 50 45.3%‡ 43.5% 44.2%
Declined to answer 0.8%‡ 1.4% 1.1%
51+ 54.7%‡ 56.5% 55.8%
Professionals
Our Employees
Directors and Managers3
White 61.7%‡ 64.2% 66.4%
Under 30 1.6%‡ 1.5% 1.3%
Asian 13.8%‡ 13.4% 12.9%
30 – 50 72.0%‡ 72.2% 72.4%
Black/African American 8.3%‡ 7.7% 7.5%
51+ 26.4%‡ 26.3% 26.4%
Hispanic/Latino 11.2%‡ 10.4% 10.2%
Professionals
Other7 2.6%‡ 2.5% 2.2%
Under 30 23.9%‡ 22.7% 20.7%
Declined to answer 2.4%‡ 1.8% 0.9%
30 – 50 59.1%‡ 60.0% 61.7%
51+ 17.0%‡ 17.3% 17.5%
Ethnic/Racial Diversity in the U.S.3 2022 2021 2020
White 62.4%‡ 64.4% 66.3%
Asian 16.2%‡ 15.3% 14.5%
Black/African American 7.5%‡ 7.2% 6.7%
Hispanic/Latino 9.8%‡ 9.2% 9.0%
Other7 2.3%‡ 2.3% 2.1%
Declined to answer 1.7%‡ 1.6% 1.4%
922022 Health for
New Employee Hires 2022 2021 2020 Year-End Performance Reviews Completed by
Humanity Report 2022 2021 2020
Job Category
Total number of new hires 24,940‡ 22,543 13,594
Vice Presidents 96% 87% 83%
Region4
Directors and Managers 100% 94% 93%
Asia Pacific 25.2%‡ 25.6% 28.4%
Professionals 100% 95% 93%
Europe, Middle East & Africa 19.4%‡ 16.7% 22.7%
Other9 100% 87% 88%
Latin America 22.3%‡ 29.2% 22.4%
Overall for all employees 100% 94% 93%
North America 33.2%‡ 28.4% 26.4%
Gender representation
Women 53.8%‡ 54.0% 52.5% Global Employee Activity 2022 2021 2020
Men 45.8%‡ 45.8% 47.5% Number of Global Activity Challenge participants 33,159 29,013 Not
Reported
Declined to answer 0.3%‡ 0.2% 0%
Not
Number of Global Activity Challenge countries 73 76
Age6 Reported
Under 30 42.8%‡ 47.5% 46.5% Number of employees who completed ENERGY FOR Not
8,872 9,816
PERFORMANCE courses Reported
30 – 50 51.3%‡ 47.6% 48.5%
51+ 5.9%‡ 4.9% 4.9%
Training & Development 2022 2021 2020
Our Employees
Number of leaders trained in our Enterprise Leader Development
Employee Retention and Turnover 2022 2021 2020 14,759 12,927 11,202
Program (cumulative)10
M or a bn ua sg ine ers s8 s a sn ed g mab eo nv t e li nm eo sved across functions, country 46.2%‡ 45.8% 44.6% N thu em tub ie tir o o nf rU ei. mS. ba un rd s eP mue er nt to p R roic go r ae mmployees who participated in 1,185 1,189 1,178
Overall voluntary turnover 8.8%‡ 8.4% 5.0%
Voluntary turnover of high performers 4.2%‡ 4.4% 3.0%
Spend on Employee Learning and Development (Millions) 2022 2021 2020
Leadership training and executive coaching $58 $64 $18
Parental Leave 2022 2021 2020 Compliance and other professional skills $41 $65 $58
Gender composition of U.S. employees who took parental leave Tuition and external certifications $6 $11 $16
Women 47% 43% 45% Operations, administration and e-learning $7 $10 $17
Men 53% 57% 55% Total11 $112 $150 $108
Gender composition of U.S. employees who returned to work after parental leave ended
Women 93% 93% 97%
Men 95% 89% 97%
932022 Health for
Average Employee Training Hours12 2022 Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) 2022 2021 2020
Humanity Report
Overall average hours of enterprise wide training per employee 27.0 Number of employees engaged in ERGs 26,609 28,135 24,304
Average training hours of enterprise wide training per employee by gender Number of U.S. ERG chapters 303 270 260
Women 29.0 Number of non-U.S. ERG chapters 193 208 183
Men 25.9 Number of WeSustain teams 78 78 Not reported
Declined to answer 29.1 Number of countries with WeSustain teams 31 32 Not reported
Average hours of enterprise-wide training per employee by job category Number of actions taken via the HealthyPlanet platform 40,495 24,609 Not reported
Vice Presidents 20.5 Number of employees completing Sustainability Training 6,276 11,780 Not reported
Directors and Managers 29.3
Professionals 27.3
2022 Our Credo Survey Results 2022
Number of languages Our Credo Survey is made available in 36‡
Number of countries Our Credo Survey is administered in 77‡
Response rate (among all active employees) 92%‡
Our Employees
Increase in participation compared to 2020 (among all eligible employees) (1)%
Favorability rate 87%‡
Increase in favorability compared to 2020 on like-to-like questions (2)%
Percentage agreed with the statement:
Ensures our first responsibility is to the patients, doctors and nurses, mothers and
92%‡
fathers, and all others who use our products and services.
Provides an inclusive work environment where each employee is considered as an individual. 86%‡
Acts responsibly to the communities in which we live and work and the world community
92%‡
as well.
942022 Health for
‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants and Management's Assertion and PwC's Report of Independent Accountants in
Employee Safety13 2022 2021 2020 previous Health for Humanity Reports.
Humanity Report
1 “Employee” is defined as an individual working full time or part time, excluding fixed-term employees, interns and co-op employees.
Employee Safety,14 global Employee data may not include full population from more recently acquired companies, and individuals on long-term disability are
excluded. Contingent workers, contractors and subcontractors are also excluded. Abiomed headcount is excluded from Global
Lost Workday Case rate15 0.06‡ 0.05 0.05 Employee data, as well as other employee and DEI-related disclosures.
2 Fixed-term employees (employee with a contract for a limited period that ends when the specific time period expires, or when
Lost Workday Work-related Injury Case rate 0.05 Not reported Not reported the specific task or event that has an attached time estimate is completed) are excluded from other employee and DEI-related
disclosures. Fixed-term contracts make up less than 5% of total employees plus individuals on fixed-term contracts.
Lost Workday Work-related Illness Case rate 0.01 Not reported Not reported 3 Values have been rounded to the nearest tenth. Due to rounding, the numbers presented do not add up precisely to the totals
provided, and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.
Total Recordable Injury Rate 0.23‡ 0.27 0.24 4 Professional positions are defined as pay grades 20–26; management positions are defined as pay grades 30 and above; executives
are defined as employees reporting directly to the CEO.
Recordable Injury Rate 0.21 Not reported Not reported 5 2022 figures are as of April 2023. 2021 figures are as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 figures are as of December 31, 2020.
6 As of October 2020, new categories were added to allow employees to actively decline self-identification or remain unidentified.
Recordable Illness Rate 0.02 Not reported Not reported Where the value for "Declined to answer" rounded to zero, we excluded from the reported table.
7 Gender and ethnic/racial diversity are reported in accordance with the gender, ethnicity, and race as self-reported by the employee
Serious Injury and Illness Case rate 0.03‡ 0.02 0.03 and recorded in the Human Resources Information System (HRIS) as of December 31, 2022. "Other" is defined as employees who
self-reported as American Indian or Alaskan Native, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, or two or more races.
Serious/Severe Work-related Injury Case rate 0.027 Not reported Not reported 8 Career progression movement includes upward promotion and lateral transfer, and excludes employees in the R&D organizations.
9 Category includes employees who don’t have a merit plan as part of their compensation package.
Serious/Severe Work-related Illness Case rate 0.003 Not reported Not reported 10 2021 numbers were restated.
11 In 2022, Johnson & Johnson invested significantly in our internal J&J Learn platform, and identified areas of efficiency with our
Number of fatalities 0‡ 0 0 Learning and Development vendors, resulting in a decrease in our external spend. Due to overlapping spend between categories,
Johnson & Johnson returned to a consolidated reporting approach for learning and development.
Employee Safety,14 by region 12 Average hours of enterprise-wide training data represents available data from three of Johnson & Johnson’s primary learning
management systems. We are working to include training data from additional sources available in future. Where training durations
were not included, we applied estimates based on training type.
Lost Workday Case rate15
13 Reported Injury/Illness Rates are excluding COVID cases.
14 LWDC rate, TRIR, SIIC rate, and fatalities are calculated for Johnson & Johnson employees and contingent workers. Contingent
Asia Pacific 0.08‡ 0.04 0.02 workers (i.e., workers supplied by third-party agencies that are the worker’s employer of record) are intended to supplement or
temporarily replace existing workforce and are directly supervised by a Johnson & Johnson employee.
Our Employees Europe, Middle East & Africa 0.05‡ 0.05 0.04 15 “Lost days” are calendar days counted beginning the day after an incident has taken place.
16 CPMM and IPMM rates are based on Safe Fleet data. Rate calculation methodology uses both actual and estimated data on miles
Latin America 0.01‡ 0.05 0.10 driven. We collect Safe Fleet data on employees who drive Company-owned or -leased and personally owned vehicles for Company
business. Employees in the latter category are those who: 1) drive for Company business as a “regular part“ of their job duties, and
North America 0.06‡ 0.06 0.07 2) receive a car allowance to purchase their own vehicle and/or are reimbursed for vehicle expenses such as fuel, maintenance,
insurance and other miscellaneous charges associated with vehicle upkeep.
Total Recordable Injury Rate
Asia Pacific 0.15‡ 0.13 0.09
Europe, Middle East & Africa 0.20‡ 0.27 0.20
Latin America 0.21‡ 0.25 0.24
North America 0.29‡ 0.35 0.34
Serious Injury and Illness Case rate
Asia Pacific 0.030‡ 0.01 0.02
Europe, Middle East & Africa 0.020‡ 0.02 0.02
Latin America 0.017‡ 0.02 0.02
North America 0.039‡ 0.04 0.04
Road Safety16 2022 2021 2020
Crashes per Million Miles (CPMM) rate 5.61 4.83 4.86
Injuries per Million Miles (IPMM) rate 0.05 0.07 0.05
95Environmental Health
2022 Health for
Energy Use1 2022 2021 2020 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions 2022 2021 2020
Humanity Report
Total energy use (TJ) 11,800 11,947 11,954 Scope 1 GHG emissions, total (MT COe)5 384,622◊ 372,206 363,875
2
From renewable sources 4,225 3,355 3,483 Scope 1 GHG emissions by source (MT COe)5
2
From non-renewable sources 7,574 8,593 8,471 Facilities1 259,247 269,200 268,638
Energy intensity (TJ/billion $)2 124 127 145 Sales fleet15 100,097 81,093 76,720
Percentage change in energy intensity compared to 2016 baseline
(30)% (29)% (19)% Refrigerants16 16,341 13,569 14,139
(TJ/billion $)
Aviation 8,936 8,344 4,378
Percent renewable electricity by region3
Scope 2 GHG emissions, facilities (MT COe)1, 5
North America 84%◊ 67% 72% 2
Location-based 606,096◊ 599,735 607,761
Europe 100%◊ 79% 82%
Market-based 298,566◊ 381,064 379,020
Global 67%◊ 52% 54%
Scope 1 + Scope 2 GHG emissions, total (MT COe) 683,188 753,270 742,895
Purchased energy use by type (TJ)1 2
GHG emissions intensity (Scope 1 + Scope 2) by revenue
Electricity 5,928 5,885 5,922 7 8 9
(MT COe/million $)
2
Natural gas 4,300 4,480 4,412
Percentage decrease in GHG emissions intensity (Scope 1 + Scope 2)
56% 50% 44%
Diesel 542 507 613 by revenue compared to 2016 baseline (MT COe /million $)
2
Direct heating/cooling 292 312 265 Not Not
Total offsets applied to reporting year 27,682◊
reported reported
Propane 58 44 53
Net Scope 1 and Scope 2 (market-based) emissions (MT COe) 655,506◊ Not reported Not reported
Environmental Health Biogas 33 31 28 2
Scope 3 GHG emissions, by source (MT COe)5, 14
Fuel oil 13 9 13 2
Total purchased energy 11,167 11,267 11,306 Purchased goods and services6 6,974,849◊ 6,605,416 6,244,849
Upstream transportation and distribution6 1,905,485◊ 1,541,624 1,456,295
On-site generated energy use by type (TJ)1
Business travel6, 7 433,946◊ 225,317 218,535
Co-generation 392 456 418
Employee commuting8 101,720◊ 117,192 131,128
Wind 132 111 129
Capital goods6 233,285◊ 207,060 201,126
Solar PV 91 86 73
Fuel- and energy-related activities9 237,528◊ 241,021 183,087
Geothermal 15 21 18
Upstream leased assets10 21,430◊ 24,657 28,969
Fuel cell 0 4 7
Waste generated in operations11 7,968◊ 8,759 8,065
Biomass 3 3 2
Available
Total on-site generated energy 633 681 647 Downstream transportation and distribution12 65,403 55,332
12/23
On-site clean/renewable energy capacity by type4
Use of sold products
Solar PV 37% 44% 37%
Direct 73,090 76,721 108,165
Co-generation 20% 29% 32%
Indirect 7,804,467 8,087,123 7,635,771
Wind 19% 23% 25%
End-of-life treatment of sold products13 150,787 147,159 153,386
Geothermal 21% 2% 3%
Biomass 2% 2% 2%
Fuel cell 0% 1% 1%
On-site clean/renewable energy technology capacity (MW) 80.0 67.2 61.4
962022 Health for
CO Capital Relief Fund 2022 2021 2020 Water Use (Million m3) (Cont.) 2022 2021 2020
Humanity Report 2
Number of projects completed (annual) 14 19 10 Water withdrawn by source (Cont.)
Cumulative projects completed since 2005 274 260 241 Other 0.08 0.09 0.06
Amount spent on projects (annual) (millions) $21 $24 $33 Gray water 0.02 0.02 0.15
Cumulative spend on completed projects since 2005 (millions) $478 $470 $445 Surface water 0.01 0.01 0.02
Total annual energy cost savings as a result of completed projects
$89 $87 $83 Water withdrawn by category
since 2005 (millions)
Freshwater (≤1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Solids)18 11.01 Not reported Not reported
Total annual energy savings as a result of completed projects
2,589 2,512 2,345
since 2005 (TJ)17 Other water (>1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Solids)18 0.10 Not reported Not reported
Total annual GHG emissions avoided as a result of completed Water withdrawn in areas of high or extremely high baseline water stress by source
320,362 313,965 298,905
projects since 2005 (MT COe)
2 Municipal 3.30 3.20 Not reported
Groundwater 0.88 1.02 Not reported
Air Emissions by Source (MT) 2022 2021 2020 Rainwater 0.15 0.13 Not reported
Other 0.08 0.09 Not reported
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) 45.36 43.35 34.62
Gray water 0 0.01 Not reported
Mono-nitrogen oxides (NOx) 41◊ 37 45
Surface water 0 0 Not reported
Ozone-depleting substances 3.30 1.28 1.86
Water withdrawn in areas with high to extremely high water stress by category
Ozone-depleting substances (MT of CFC-11 equivalents) 0.18 0.05 0.09
Freshwater (≤1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Solids)18 4.34 Not reported Not reported
Particulate matter (PM) 65.05 67.10 89.20
Environmental Health
Other water (>1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Solids)18 0.08 Not reported Not reported
Refrigerants 10.03 8.65 9.58
Total water withdrawn in areas with high to extremely high
Sulfur oxides (SOx) 57◊ 53 65 4.42 4.45 Not reported
water stress
Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 339.06 449.15 366.08
Water discharge in areas with high to extremely high water stress by destination
Wastewater treatment plant 1.57 Not reported Not reported
Water Use (Million m3) 2022 2021 2020 Surface water 0.70 Not reported Not reported
Total water withdrawn 11.11◊ 11.04 11.09 Irrigation 0.23 Not reported Not reported
Total water consumed 3.93◊ 3.89 3.77 Other 0 Not reported Not reported
Total water recycled and reused 0.83◊ 0.81 0.75 Ocean 0 Not reported Not reported
Total water discharge 7.18◊ 7.15 7.32 Total water discharge in areas with high to extremely high
2.50 Not reported Not reported
water stress
Percentage of water withdrawn in regions of high or extremely
40%◊ 40% 39%
high baseline water stress Water discharge by destination
Percentage of water consumed in regions of high or extremely Wastewater treatment plant 4.83 4.81 5.12
49%◊ 52% 50%
high baseline water stress
Surface water 1.80 1.85 2.00
Water withdrawn by source
Irrigation 0.28 0.26 0.19
Municipal 8.13 7.70 7.72
Ocean 0.22 0.18 0.18
Groundwater 2.70 3.06 3.08
Other 0.04 0.06 0.07
Rainwater 0.18 0.15 0.06
972022 Health for
Operational Waste (MT) 2022 2021 2020 EH&S Compliance and Certifications 2022 2021 2020
Humanity Report
Total waste generated 185,491 194,836 183,558 Number of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 1400119 87‡ 92 95
Hazardous waste 48,869 52,180 53,944 Percentage of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to
91%‡ 89% 96%
ISO 1400119, 20
Non-hazardous waste 136,622 142,656 129,614
Number of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 4500119 20‡ 18 21
Percentage of waste diverted from disposal 85% 86% 86%
Percentage of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 4500119, 20 20%‡ 17% 21%
Percentage of waste directed to disposal 15% 14% 14%
Number of environmental non-compliances21, 22, 24 167‡ 34 50
Waste diverted from disposal
Fines paid for environmental non-compliances (thousands)22, 23 $11.7‡ $3.6 $5.9
Hazardous waste
Recycled 27,038 25,207 22,813
LEED Buildings 2022 2021 2020
Energy recovery 13,611 16,599 19,836
Number of newly LEED-certified Johnson & Johnson
Reused 2,551 1,457 2,234 1 7 6
buildings (annual)
Non-hazardous waste
Number of Johnson & Johnson buildings that are
68 67 60
Recycled 81,775 92,206 82,184 LEED-certified (total)25
Energy recovery 19,587 18,724 17,969 Percentage of Johnson & Johnson built space that is 17.0% 15.9% 14.5%
LEED-certified (total)25
Reused 12,389 12,451 13,271
Total area of office and building space that is
9.4 9.4 8.7
Total waste diverted from disposal 156,950 166,645 158,309 LEED-certified (million square feet)25
Waste directed to disposal
Environmental Health
Hazardous waste Product End of Life (Millions) 2022 2021 2020
Landfilled 1,264 2,380 2,533 Number of medical devices collected in U.S. 0.78 0.93 1.60
Incinerated 3,478 5,146 4,824 Number of medical devices reprocessed in U.S. 0.32 0.39 0.67
Bio/chemical treatment 896 1,269 1,599
◊ Metric has been assured by ERM CVS. See GHG & Air Emissions, Electricity and Water Data.
Other 32 121 104 ‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants and Management's Assertion and PwC's Report of Independent Accountants in
previous Health for Humanity Reports.
Non-hazardous waste 1 Includes site-specific data from all Johnson & Johnson owned and leased sites over 50,000 square feet where Johnson & Johnson
has operational control, as well as manufacturing and R&D sites under 50,000 square feet, unless otherwise noted.
Landfilled 8,891 9,424 8,384 2 Energy intensity ratio includes electricity, stationary fuels and district heating and cooling.
3 Percentage of electricity used by Johnson & Johnson that is generated from renewable sources. Europe includes Belgium, France,
Incinerated 2,071 1,965 2,799 Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. North America includes
the United States and Canada only.
Bio/chemical treatment 11,864 7,808 4,948 4 Values have been rounded to the nearest whole number. Due to rounding, the numbers presented do not add up precisely to the
totals provided, and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.
Other 45 78 59 5 In accordance with guidance from the World Resources Institute (WRI) Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, we restated
the 2020 and 2021 values to reflect newly released electricity grid emission factors, as well as the addition or removal of acquisitions
Total waste directed to disposal 28,541 28,192 25,250
and divestitures. This threshold for restatement deviates from the one included in the About This Report section. We do not currently
use purchases, sales or transfers of offsets in our GHG accounting. Gases covered in these calculations include CO, CH, NO and
2 4 2
HFCs. Perfluorinated chemicals, sulfur hexafluoride and nitrogen trifluoride do not result from our operations. Biogenic CO emissions
2
in 2022 were 1,871 MT CO. Electricity emission factors are obtained from the International Energy Agency’s CO Emissions from Fuel
2 2
Combustion Report; the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA's) eGRID publication for location-based Scope 2 reporting,
and supply contracts and residual emission factors, where available, for market-based Scope 2 reporting. Fuel emission factors are
obtained from the EPA Climate Leadership publication. Global Warming Potentials are obtained from the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change Fifth Assessment Report. The chosen consolidation approach for emissions is operational control.
982022 Health for
6 Emissions were calculated using Company spend in the reporting year paired with appropriate economic input/output (IO) emission
factors from the Carnegie Mellon 2002 data set. Where more specific primary data were able to be obtained, they were used in place
Humanity Report
of the IO calculation methodology.
7 Business travel emissions from personal vehicle travel reflect CO only.
2
8 Data from a 2022 survey of a sample of employees in all regions, extrapolated for all employees globally, were used to estimate
average employee commuting and remote working emissions intensity per employee. This value was used to calculate 2022
emissions from Employee Commuting. Year over year trend may be due to methodology adjustments.
9 Emissions from fuel- and energy-related activities were calculated for emissions from transmission and distribution (T&D) losses
from purchased electricity, well-to-tank (WTT) emissions from purchased electricity, WTT emissions from T&D losses, and WTT
emissions from purchased fuels. Emissions were calculated using International Energy Agency (IEA) loss factors for electricity and the
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) WTT emission factors for fuels and electricity.
10 Emissions from Upstream Leased Assets were calculated by applying the energy intensity from office locations in our Scope 1 and
Scope 2 footprint to the building area of leased assets less than 50,000 square feet, or those greater than 50,000 square feet outside
of our operational control which are excluded from Scope 1 and Scope 2 reporting.
11 Emissions from Waste Generated in Operations were calculated for both non-hazardous and hazardous waste from manufacturing
and R&D operations using Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs' emissions factors for waste.
12 Emissions from Downstream Transportation and Distribution were calculated using the U.S. EPA’s SmartWay Program and are
provided for U.S. shippers only. GHG covered in these calculations include CO only for the 2021 calendar year, the most up-to-
2
date available. 2022 data will be available in December of 2023 and will be reported in future reports. We have identified a level of
uncertainty around the reporting boundary, and the reported value is potentially overstated.
13 2020 and 2021 values are restated due to a correction in the calculation methodology. Emissions from the Use of Sold Products
and the End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products were calculated using sales volumes for all Johnson & Johnson products combined
with lifecycle assessment (LCA) models where sales volumes could be obtained; where they could not be obtained, sales revenues
and average unit prices were used to estimate volumes. Due to the size of our product portfolio, LCAs were not performed for every
Johnson & Johnson product, so products were placed into LCA categories, and a representative product LCA was applied.
14 Emissions from the Processing of Sold Products, Downstream Leased Assets, Franchises and Investments are not applicable to
Johnson & Johnson operations.
15 GHGs covered in these calculations include CO only.
2
16 Includes site-specific data from all Johnson & Johnson manufacturing and R&D sites only.
17 Results from completed projects. Based on fuel and electricity reduction calculations. Avoidance of energy consumption and
GHG emissions calculated by comparing energy consumption before project implementation and expected consumption after
implementation using engineering estimates at the time the projects are approved through an internal process.
18 Municipal water, Groundwater, Rainwater and Surface water sources are considered as the ‘Freshwater’ category. Grey water &
Other water sources are considered as the ‘Other water’ category.
Environmental Health 19 Certified to ISO 14001 or ISO 45001 means the site has received an external certification that is valid as of December 31, 2022. The
decrease in sites with ISO 14001 certifications is driven in part by a decrease in overall Johnson & Johnson-owned manufacturing and
R&D sites.
20 The denominator of total manufacturing and R&D sites excludes small R&D and manufacturing sites (defined as having less than 50
employees) and newly acquired sites (i.e., owned less than three years as of December 31, 2022).
21 Environmental non-compliances represent instances of non-compliance with environmental regulatory requirements or laws that
were either (i) self-reported to authorities in the reporting year or (ii) identified by authorities and the non-compliance occurred in the
reporting year. The authorities include regional, national, state/country/province and local/city regulatory agencies.
22 Environmental non-compliances and fines paid exclude newly acquired sites (i.e., owned less than two years as of
December 31, 2022).
23 Fines paid for environmental non-compliances include those paid in the reporting year. It does not include fines assessed and/or
under negotiation that were not paid as of December 31, 2022.
24 The number of regulatory non-compliances has increased in 2022. Root cause analysis has been performed as needed and
corrective actions have been identified.
25 Totals include 3 BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology) certified sites.
99Accountability & Innovation
2022 Health for
Supply Base Overview 2022 2021 2020 Diverse Supplier Spend in the U.S. (Millions)3 2022 2021 2020
Humanity Report
Number of Johnson & Johnson suppliers 46,064 45,324 51,280 Tier 1 supplier spend
Total Johnson & Johnson supplier spend (billions)1 $40.1 $34.8 $30.6 Diverse-owned $2,674 $2,214 $1,670
Supplier spend contracted by region1 Disabled-owned $125.6 $159.3 Not reported
Asia Pacific 10% 9% 11% Minority-owned $1,791.3 $1,463.6 Not reported
Europe, Middle East & Africa 32% 34% 33% LGBT-owned $14.0 $9.2 Not reported
Latin America 3% 3% 3% Veteran- and disabled Veteran-owned $160.8 $119.0 Not reported
North America 56% 55% 53% Women-owned $952.7 $873.0 Not reported
Supplier spend contracted by business Total small business spend $2,927 $2,641 $2,650
Pharmaceutical 34% 37% 34% Percentage of total supplier spend attributable to small suppliers 13% 14% 17%
MedTech 30% 28% 24% Percentage of total supplier spend attributable to diverse suppliers 12% 12% 11%
Consumer Health 23% 24% 30% Percentage increase of Tier 1 diverse spend with U.S. Black-
10% 31% Not reported
and Hispanic-owned
Corporate 13% 12% 12%
Diverse Supplier Spend, Global (Millions)3 2022 2021 2020
Supplier Engagement 2022 2021 2020
Total Global Impact Spend (billions)4 $5.88◊ $5.22 Not reported
Number of suppliers invited to participate in the CDP
392 388 423
Supply Chain Climate program Number of countries outside the U.S. tracking diversity &
19 18 16
Accountability & Innovation Percentage participated 85% 82% 80% inclusion indicators
Tier 1 diverse supplier spend in countries outside the U.S. $536.8 $668.7 $290.0
Number of suppliers invited to participate in the CDP
150 135 153
Supply Chain Water program Global Tier 1 supplier spend5
Percentage participated 74% 75% 79% Women-owned $1,218.5 $1,223.9 $826.0
EcoVadis assessments completed2 1,210 881 1,119 Minority-owned $2,114.5 $1,785.1 $1,223.4
Supplier risk ranking based on EcoVadis assessments LGBT-owned $17.3 $11.0 Not reported
Low risk 924 635 729 Veteran- and disabled Veteran-owned $164.5 $127.9 Not reported
Medium risk 269 213 349 Total Veteran- and disabled Veteran-owned $259.0 $206.3 Not reported
High risk 17 33 41 Total Tier 1 diverse (billions) $3.2 $2.9 Not reported
Tier 2 diverse $649.6 $508.7 $372.1
1002022 Health for
Supplier Audits 2022 2021 2020 Cybersecurity & Data Privacy 2022 2021 2020
Humanity Report
Supplier Environment, Health and Safety (EH&S) audits Percentage of employees who completed Information
91% Not reported Not reported
Security Training
EH&S audits and technical visits completed6 160 164 156
EH&S audits and technical visits by region
Board of Directors’ Composition9 2022 2021 2020
Asia Pacific 121 133 133
Number of Directors 12 14 14
Europe, Middle East & Africa 8 11 13
Number of Independent Directors 11 13 13
Latin America 17 10 2
Percentage of Independent Directors 92% 93% 93%
North America 14 10 8
Number of suppliers identified as high risk for non-conformance Independent Lead Director Yes Yes Yes
15 21 24
to Johnson & Johnson Responsibility Standards for Suppliers
Independent Audit Committee Yes Yes Yes
Number of critical EH&S findings7 identified as a result
9 9 2 Independent Compensation & Benefits Yes Yes Yes
of EH&S audits
Independent Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee Yes Yes Yes
Safety-related findings 5 8 2
Independent Regulatory Compliance & Sustainability Committee10 Yes Yes Yes
Environmental-related findings 4 1 0
Independent Science & Technology Committee10 Yes Yes Yes
Supplier social audits8
Number of regular and special meetings held by the
Supplier social audits completed, total 12 11 5 15 17 10
Board of Directors
Completed using SMETA 4-Pillar protocol 11 11 5
Social audits completed, by region
Tax Contribution (Billions)11 2022 2021 2020
Accountability & Innovation Asia Pacific 6 8 4
Payroll & social insurance taxes borne $1.6‡ $1.5 $1.3
Europe, Middle East & Africa 2 2 0
Payroll & social insurance taxes collected $4.9‡ $4.6 $4.3
Latin America 2 1 1
Sales/use & other taxes borne $0.9‡ $0.9 $0.8
North America 2 0 0
Sales/use & other taxes collected $1.1‡ $1.3 $1.0
Number of critical findings7 identified as a result of supplier
0 1 3
social audits Corporate income tax $5.2‡ $4.8 $4.6
Total taxes borne $7.7‡ $7.2 $6.7
Animal Welfare 2022 2021 2020
Total taxes collected $6.0‡ $6.0 $5.3
Total tax contribution $13.7‡ $13.1 $12.0
Number of facilities with animals with veterinary oversight 6 Not reported Not reported
Number of sites with animals accredited by AAALAC International 6 Not reported Not reported
Percentage of sites with animals that are accredited by Code of Business Conduct (CBC) Compliance 2022 2021 2020
100% Not reported Not reported
AAALAC International
Percentage of senior leaders certified the compliance of their
Percentage of research performed in rodents and fish when 96% Not reported Not reported organizations with the CBC12 100% 100% 100%
there are no non-animal alternatives available
Number of warning letters or untitled letters issued by OPDP or
0 0 0
APLB in the U.S.13
1012022 Health for
Health Care Compliance (HCC) Training 2022 2021 2020 Product Quality Indicators 2022 2021 2020
Humanity Report
Number of relevant Johnson & Johnson employees that Number of regulatory inspections of Johnson & Johnson
105,000 98,000 81,000 537‡ 448 452
completed HCC training that includes anti-corruption section sites by worldwide health authorities
Percentage of sales and marketing employees who completed Percentage of regulatory inspections that resulted in
97% 97% 96% 75%‡ 76% 82%
HCC training zero observations
Number of FDA inspections of Johnson & Johnson sites 8‡ 9 10
Percentage of FDA inspections that resulted in zero
Inquiries and Complaints as Recorded With Our Credo 2022 2021 2020 63%‡ 56% 80%
Integrity Line by Category14 observations
Human Resources-related 71%‡ 55% 51% Average number of observations per FDA inspection 2.9‡ 2.4 1.7
Number of independent audits of Johnson & Johnson sites to
Business integrity-related 11%‡ 14% 12%
ensure compliance with Johnson & Johnson Quality Policy 166‡ 170 165
Other (privacy, information security, general security, EH&S, etc.) 6%‡ 9% 11%
& Standards
General information questions 3%‡ 8% 10% Number of independent audits of external manufacturing sites
Financial-related 4%‡ 7% 14% to ensure compliance with Johnson & Johnson Quality Policy 275‡ 277 230
& Standards
Human rights-related 1%‡ 5% Not reported
Number of FDA warning letters issued 0‡ 0 0
Product quality- and patient safety-related 3%‡ 2% 2%
Product recall rate15 by business segment
Pharmaceutical 0.003%‡ 0% 0%
Compliance-Related Allegations Investigated Through
2022 2021 2020 MedTech 0.005%‡ 0.059% 0.034%
Triage Committee
Accountability & Innovation Number of compliance-related allegations investigated 749‡ 661 559 Consumer Health Self-Care OTC16 0%‡ 0% 0%
Percentage of compliance-related allegations
investigated by category
Anti-Counterfeiting17 2022 2021 2020
Healthcare compliance 55%‡ 48% 41%
Number of anti-counterfeiting best practices trainings delivered
Financial 36%‡ 43% 51% to law enforcement agents (Customs, Border Protection, etc.)18 104 87 37
Other 9%‡ 9% 8% Number of external trade groups, alliances, organizations and
agencies in which Johnson & Johnson is engaged in leadership 15 13 7
positions or industry working groups
Collective Bargaining Agreements 2022 2021 2020
Percentage of employees covered by collective
30% 30% 23%
bargaining agreements
1022022 Health for
◊ Metric has been assured by ERM CVS. See Health for Humanity 2025 Goals Assurance.
‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants and Management's Assertion and PwC's Report of Independent Accountants in
Humanity Report
previous Health for Humanity Reports.
1 Represents spend we have control over/addressable spend, defined as products and services that procurement teams can negotiate
with suppliers to meet business goals. Values have been rounded. Due to rounding, the numbers presented do not add up precisely to
the totals provided, and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.
2 Supplier EcoVadis assessments are reported as of January 25, 2023 and may not capture suppliers that updated their assessment in
January of 2023.
3 Except Tier 2 diverse spend, all indicators represent spend Johnson & Johnson has control over addressable spend, defined as
products and services that procurement teams can negotiate with suppliers to meet business goals.
4 Total Global Impact Spend consists of: Tier 1 diverse supplier spend in the U.S. (billions) and countries outside the U.S., plus small
business spend in the U.S., less overlap spend, plus Tier 2 diverse supplier spend, global (millions). U.S. suppliers can be classified as
Tier 1 diverse and small business. The Tier 1 diverse & small business overlap is removed to avoid double counting of the spend.
5 Suppliers can be designated in multiple diverse categories and each are counted in each category for which the supplier qualifies.
Total Tier 1 diverse supplier spend in the U.S. (billions) counts the spend with each supplier once.
6 A technical visit is a follow-up visit to the initial audit.
7 We define a "critical finding" as evidence of very high risk to human life or potential catastrophic impact to facility, community or
environment. We expect suppliers and potential suppliers to address critical findings immediately.
8 Social audits are conducted using the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) protocol.
9 Figures as of March 2023.
10 In 2022, this Committee changed names.
11 The tax information contained in this section is intended to provide the reader with an overview of all taxes contributed by
Johnson & Johnson, and not just income taxes. It should be read in conjunction with the Company’s tax information filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including in the most recently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Annual Report on
Form 10-K. This tax information is supplemental to, and not a substitute for, the information reported in the Company’s SEC filings.
12 Certifiers include senior leaders at VP2 level and above, selected Managing Directors and General Managers based on country or
business segment risk profile, and executives of recently acquired companies.
13 OPDP: Office of Prescription Drug Promotion APLB: Advertising and Promotional Labeling Branch of the FDA Center for Biologics
Evaluation and Research.
14 Johnson & Johnson Triage Committee and case investigators have the ability to change the issue type of the cases upon receipt in
Our Credo Integrity Line. This occurred for no more than 16% in 2022.
15 Product recall rate is defined as the number of lots removed from market per total globally manufactured, based on field action
removals where it has been determined internally by a Quality Review Board, and aligned by Johnson & Johnson Enterprise
Compliance, that there is a reasonable probability that the product may cause temporary or medically reversible adverse health
consequences and, in certain cases, will cause serious adverse health consequences.
16 The Pharmaceutical and MedTech recall rates consider all products in each business segment. The Consumer Health product quality
Accountability & Innovation
recall rate is inclusive of Consumer Health products from the Self-Care over-the-counter (OTC) business segment.
17 As a result of sporadic attendance logs being kept during law enforcement trainings (stemming from potential security concerns), in
2022, only the number of training sessions was captured vs. number of attendees.
18 All employees at Johnson & Johnson are trained on the Code of Business Conduct as well as what to do if they become aware
of a product complaint or adverse event. Brand protection awareness is included in both of these mandatory trainings to raise
understanding and awareness of illicit trade issues among all employees. Supplemental brand protection training is also available to
stakeholders and is reflected in the number above.
103Independent Assurance Statements
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Independent Limited Assurance Statement to Johnson & Johnson on Health for Humanity 2025 Goals
ERM Certification and Verification Services Inc (“ERM CVS”) was engaged by Johnson & Johnson Inc (“J&J”) to provide limited assurance in
relation to selected information reported in the Johnson & Johnson 2022 Health for Humanity Report, the Health for Humanity 2025 Goals Scorecard
(together the “Report”) and on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com
Our conclusion
Engagement summary
Based on our activities, as described below, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the
Whether the selected information detailed below are fairly presented in the Report, in all selected information for the disclosures listed under ‘Scope’ above are not fairly presented in the
material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria: Report, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria.
• Reported progress against each Health for Humanity 2025 Goal (cumulative 2021-2022)
Scope of our • VERMOX (mebendazole) doses donated (millions) (2022) Our assurance activities
assurance • Patients Reached by J&J Impact Ventures (JJIV) portfolio companies & funds since date Considering the level of assurance and our assessment of the risk of material misstatement of the
engagement of investment (number) (2022 - as of 31 December 2022)
selected information a multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed a
issued • Healthcare Professionals (HCPs) Supported by JJIV portfolio companies since date of
range of procedures that included, but was not restricted to, the following:
investment (number) (2022 - as of 31 December 2022)
Our assurance engagement does not extend to information in respect of earlier periods or • Assessing the appropriateness of the reporting criteria for the selected information including review
to any other information included in the Report or on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com. of the reporting principles, boundaries, definitions and internal guidelines for each of the Health for
Humanity 2025 Goals.
Reporting Cumulative (2021-2022): 1 January 2021 – 31 December 2022 • A review of external media reporting relating to J&J to identify issues in the reporting period that
period 2022: 1 January 2022 – 31 December 2022
may be relevant to the assurance scope.
Independent Assurance Statements
• Interviews with management representatives and other staff to understand and evaluate the relevant
Reporting Health for Humanity 2025 Goals as defined in the Report
management systems and processes (including internal review and control processes) used for
criteria J&J Basis of Reporting as described in applicable footnotes within the Report
collecting and reporting the selected information.
We performed a limited assurance engagement, in accordance with the International • A review at corporate level of a sample of qualitative and quantitative evidence supporting the
Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other selected information.
than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ issued by the International
Assurance • A review of the GHG and renewable energy data to confirm consistency with the findings of our
Auditing and Standards Board.
standard separate GHG and renewable energy verification engagement including completeness
The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing
and level of and consistency.
assurance from, and are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement and consequently,
the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower • Reviewing the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report and on
than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com to ensure consistency with our findings.
been performed.
The limitations of our engagement
J&J is responsible for preparing the Report for the collection and presentation of the The reliability of the assured information is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the nature of some
information within it, and for the designing, implementing and maintaining of internal of the Health for Humanity 2025 Goals dependence on partner organisations to provide performance
controls relevant to the preparation and presentation of the selected information.
Respective information, as well as the use of estimates, assumptions and extrapolations in determining the Selected
ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions to J&J on the agreed scope based on
responsibilities information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context.
our engagement terms with J&J, the assurance activities performed and exercising our
professional judgement. We accept no responsibility, and deny any liability, to any party
other than J&J for the conclusions we have reached.
1042022 Health for Our independence, integrity and quality control
Humanity Report ERM CVS is an independent certification and verification body
accredited by UKAS to ISO 17021:2015. Accordingly we maintain a
comprehensive system of quality control, including documented
policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical
requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and
regulatory requirements. Our quality management system is at
least as demanding as the relevant sections of ISQM-1 and
ISQM-2 (2022).
ERM CVS applies a Code of Conduct and related policies to ensure
that its employees maintain integrity, objectivity, professional
competence and high ethical standards in their work. Our
processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work
we undertake is objective, impartial and free from bias and conflict
of interest. Our certified management system covers independence
and ethical requirements that are at least as demanding as the
relevant sections of Parts A & B of the IESBA Code relating to
assurance engagements.
The team that has undertaken this assurance engagement has
extensive experience in conducting assurance on environmental,
social, ethical and health and safety information, systems and
processes and provides no consultancy related services to
Johnson & Johnson Inc in any respect.
Independent Assurance Statements
Other Matters
We have provided J&J with a separate management report with
our detailed (non-material) findings and recommendations.
Beth Wyke
Partner, Corporate Assurance
Malvern, PA, USA
2 June 2023
ERM Certification and Verification Services Inc
www.ermcvs.com | post@ermcvs.com
1052022 Health for Independent Limited Assurance Statement to Johnson & Johnson on GHG & Air Emissions, Electricity and Water Data
Humanity Report
ERM Certification & Verification Services Incorporated (“ERM CVS”) was engaged by Johnson & Johnson (“J&J”) to provide limited assurance in relation
to the selected information set out below and presented in the J&J’s 2022 Health for Humanity Report (the “Report”) and on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com as set out below.
Engagement summary Engagement summary
Reporting
Whether the 2022 corporate data for the following selected indicators are fairly presented Year ending 31 December 2022
period
in the Report, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria.
GHG Emissions
• Total absolute Scope 1 GHG emissions [metric tonnes COe]
2
• Total absolute Scope 2 GHG emissions using the location-based and market-based WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004, as updated January 2015) for the Scope 1, 2 and 3
Reporting
calculation methods [metric tonnes COe] GHG emissions;
2 criteria
• Total offsets applied to reporting year [metric tonnes CO 2e] Johnson & Johnson’s internal reporting criteria and definitions.
• Net Scope 1 & Scope 2 (market-based) GHG emissions [metric tonnes COe]
2
• Absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions [metric tonnes COe] for each of the following
2
categories:
• Category 1 - Purchased goods and services;
• Category 2 - Capital goods; We performed a limited assurance engagement, in accordance with the International
• Category 3 - Fuel- and energy-related activities; Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other
Assurance
• Category 4 - Upstream transportation and distribution; than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. The procedures performed in a
standard
Scope of our • Category 5 - Waste generated in operations; limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for
and level of
assurance • Category 6 - Business travel; a reasonable assurance engagement and consequently, the level of assurance obtained in
assurance
engagement • Category 7 - Employee commuting; a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have
Independent Assurance Statements
• Category 8 - Upstream leased assets; been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed.
Energy
• Electricity use generated by renewable energy sources – EU [%]
• Electricity use generated by renewable energy sources – North America [%]
• Electricity use generated by renewable energy sources – Global [%]
Water
J&J is responsible for preparing the Report and for the collection and presentation of
• Total water withdrawn [million m3]
the information within it, and for the designing, implementing and maintaining of internal
• Total water consumed [million m3]
controls relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Report.
• Total water recycled and reused [million m3] Respective
ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions to J&J on the agreed scope based on
• Total water discharge [million m3] responsibilities
our engagement terms with J&J, the assurance activities performed and exercising our
• Percentage of water withdrawn in regions of high or extremely high baseline
professional judgement. We accept no responsibility, and deny any liability, to any party
water stress [%]
other than J&J for the conclusions we have reached.
• Percentage of water consumed in regions of high or extremely high baseline
water stress [%]
1062022 Health for Our conclusion Percentage of water withdrawn in regions 40% The limitations of our engagement
of high or extremely high baseline water stress:
Humanity Report Based on our activities, as described below, nothing has come to The reliability of the assured information is subject to inherent
our attention to indicate that the 2022 data and information for Percentage of water consumed in regions 49% uncertainties, given the available methods for determining,
the disclosures listed under ‘Scope’ above are not fairly presented of high or extremely high baseline water stress: calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is important
in the Report, in all material respects, in accordance with the to understand our assurance conclusions in this context.
Our assurance activities
reporting criteria.
Our independence, integrity and quality control
Considering the level of assurance and our assessment of the risk
Scope 1 GHG emissions: 384,622 MT COe
2
of material misstatement of the Report a multidisciplinary team ERM CVS is an independent certification and verification body
Scope 2 GHG (location-based) 606,096 MT COe
2 of sustainability and assurance specialists performed a range of accredited by UKAS to ISO 17021:2015. Accordingly we maintain a
emissions:
procedures that included, but was not restricted to, the following: comprehensive system of quality control, including documented
Scope 2 GHG (market-based) 298,566 MT COe policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical
2 • Assessing the appropriateness of the reporting criteria for the
emissions: requirements, professional standards, and applicable legal and
selected information.
regulatory requirements. Our quality management system is at
Total offsets applied to 27,682 MT COe
2 • Virtual interviews with relevant corporate staff to understand least as demanding as the relevant sections of ISQM-1 and
reporting year:
internal reporting guidance and processes, including the use of
ISQM-2 (2022).
Net Scope 1 & Scope 2 (market-based) 655,506 MT COe its internal GHG Protocol, internal spreadsheets, and its various
2
emissions: internal data management and reporting systems for each of the ERM CVS applies a Code of Conduct and related policies to ensure
metrics in scope. that its employees maintain integrity, objectivity, professional
Scope 3 GHG emissions for the
competence and high ethical standards in their work. Our
following categories: • Review of reporting boundary compared to J&J’s internal
processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work
reporting criteria.
• 1: Purchased goods and services 6,974,849 MT CO 2e we undertake is objective, impartial and free from bias and conflict
• 2: Capital goods 233,285 MT COe • An analytical review of the year-end data submitted by all of interest. Our certified management system covers independence
2 locations included in the consolidated 2022 group data for the
and ethical requirements that are at least as demanding as the
• 3: Fuel and energy related activities 237,528 MT CO 2e selected disclosures which included testing the completeness
relevant sections of Parts A & B of the IESBA Code relating to
Independent Assurance Statements • 4: Upstream transportation 1,905,485 MT CO 2e and mathematical accuracy of conversions and calculations, assurance engagements.
and distribution and consolidation in line with the stated reporting boundary.
The team that has undertaken this assurance engagement has
• 5: Waste generated in operations 7,968 MT COe • A review of estimates, extrapolations, and assumptions
2 extensive experience in conducting assurance on environmental,
made in relation to the data for relevant GHG Scope 3
• 6: Business travel 433,946 MT COe social, ethical and health and safety information, systems and
2 emissions categories.
• 7: Employee commuting 101,720 MT COe processes, and provides no consultancy related services to J&J
2 • In-person site visits to four sites (Lititz, US; Pomezia, Italy; in any respect.
• 8: Upstream leased assets 21,430 MT COe Schaffhausen, Switzerland; Springhouse, US) and virtual visits
2
to four sites (Athens, US; Norderstedt, Germany; Ringaskiddy,
Percentage renewable electricity 100%
Ireland; Xian, China) to review local reporting processes and
by region – EU:
consistency of reported annual data with selected underlying
Percentage renewable electricity 84% source data for each indicator. We interviewed relevant staff,
Beth Wyke
by region – North America: reviewed site data capture and reporting methods, checked
Partner, Corporate Assurance
calculations and assessed the local internal quality and assurance
Percentage renewable electricity 67% Malvern, PA, USA
processes; and.
by region – Global:
2 June 2023
Total water withdrawn: 11.11 million m3 • Confirming conversion and emission factors and assumptions used. ERM Certification and Verification Services Inc
Total water consumed: 3.93 million m3 • Reviewing the presentation of information relevant to the scope www.ermcvs.com | post@ermcvs.com
of our work in the Report to ensure consistency with our findings.
Total water recycled and reused: 0.83 million m3
Total water discharge: 7.18 million m3
1072022 Health for
Humanity Report
Report of Independent Accountants
To the Board of Directors of Johnson & Johnson The preparation of sustainability metrics requires management to establish the criteria, make
determinations as to the relevancy of information to be included, and make assumptions that affect
We have reviewed the accompanying management assertion of Johnson & Johnson that the sustainability
reported information. The selection by management of different but acceptable measurement techniques
metrics as of or for the year ended December 31, 2022 in management’s assertion are presented in
could have resulted in materially different amounts or metrics being reported.
accordance with the assessment criteria set forth in management’s assertion. Johnson & Johnson’s
management is responsible for its assertion and for the selection of the criteria, which management Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to Johnson &
believes provide an objective basis for measuring and reporting on the sustainability metrics. Our Johnson’s management assertion in order for it to be fairly stated.
responsibility is to express a conclusion on management’s assertion based on our review.
Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute
of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) in AT-C section 105, Concepts Common to All Attestation
Engagements, and AT-C section 210, Review Engagements. Those standards require that we plan and
perform the review to obtain limited assurance about whether any material modifications should be made Florham Park, New Jersey
to management’s assertion in order for it to be fairly stated. The procedures performed in a review vary in
June 2, 2023
nature and timing from, and are substantially less in extent than, an examination, the objective of which
is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether management’s assertion is fairly stated, in all material
respects, in order to express an opinion. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. Because of the
limited nature of the engagement, the level of assurance obtained in a review is substantially lower than
Independent Assurance Statements
the assurance that would have been obtained had an examination been performed. We believe that the
review evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a reasonable basis for our conclusion.
We are required to be independent and to meet our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with
relevant ethical requirements related to the engagement.
The firm applies the Statements on Quality Control Standards established by the AICPA and, accordingly,
maintains a comprehensive system of quality control.
The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgment. In performing our review, we
performed inquiries, performed tests of mathematical accuracy of computations on a sample basis, read
relevant policies to understand terms related to relevant information about the sustainability metrics,
reviewed supporting documentation in regard to the completeness and accuracy of the data in the
sustainability metrics on a sample basis, and performed analytical procedures.
1082022 Health for Johnson & Johnson Management Assertion
Humanity Report
As of or for the Year Ended December 31, 2022
Johnson & Johnson Management Assertion
As of or for the Year Ended December 31, 2022
Management of Johnson & Johnson is responsible for the completeness, accuracy, and validity of the sustainability Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DE&I) continued
metrics included in the tables below as of or for the year ended December 31, 2022 (the reporting year) for global
operations, unless otherwise noted. The metrics have been rounded to the nearest whole number unless otherwise Metric Description Metric Value
indicated.
Gender Representation(a)(b)(c)(i)
Management asserts that the metrics reported in the tables below, which are also included in the 2022 Health for
Humanity Report as identified by the “‡“ symbol, are presented in accordance with the assessment criteria set forth Region(d)(j) Asia Pacific:
below. Management is responsible for the selection of the criteria, which management believes provide an objective Women 49.4%
basis for measuring and reporting on the sustainability metrics. The preparation of the sustainability metrics requires Men 50.6%
management to establish the criteria, make determinations as to the relevancy of information to be included, and Declined to answer 0%
make assumptions that affect reported information. The selection by management of different but acceptable
Europe, Middle East & Africa:
measurement techniques could have resulted in materially different amounts or metrics being reported.
Women 50.7%
Our Giving(a) Men 49.3%
Declined to answer 0%
Metric Description Metric Value (in millions) Latin America:
Women 54.6%
Total products(b) and cash contributed $4,292
Men 45.5%
Products(b) contributed $3,925 Declined to answer 0%
North America:
Cash contributed $367 Women 47.5%
Men 52.2%
(a) Our contributions include products or cash donations made to qualified nonprofit entities (i.e., 501(c)(3) organizations in the U.S. or with an NGO Declined to answer 0.3%
source 501(c)(3) equivalency determination for organizations outside the U.S.) by Johnson & Johnson during the reporting year. Administrative
costs incurred by Johnson & Johnson during the contribution process are also included in cash contributions (approximately 3% of the cash Employment type Full-time employees:
contributed).
Women 73,826
(b) Products contributed are measured at fair market value, which is the price of the product, as determined by an internal price list in USD as of
December 31, 2022, that Johnson & Johnson would sell to consumers in the market. Men 76,054
Independent Assurance Statements
Declined to answer 150
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DE&I) Part-time employees:
Women 3,048
Metric Description Metric Value Men 599
Global Employees(a)(c) Declined to answer 0
Fixed-term employees:
Total number of employees(b) 153,677
Women 2,784
Women 76,874
Men 2,209
Men 76,653
Declined to answer 9
Declined to answer 150
Job category(d)(g)(j) Vice Presidents:
Region(d) Asia Pacific 31,322 Women 41.2%
Europe, Middle East & Africa 44,473 Men 58.0%
Latin America 26,053 Declined to answer 0.8%
North America 51,829 Directors and Managers:
Women 49.2%
Men 50.6%
Declined to answer 0%
Professionals:
Women 51.5%
Men 48.4%
Declined to answer: 0.1%
Management and executive positions(g) Women in management positions
49.0%
Women in executive positions
109
38.5%
1
2Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DE&I) continued
Metric Description Metric Value
Gender Representation(a)(b)(c)(i)
Region(d)(j) Asia Pacific:
Women 49.4%
Men 50.6%
Declined to answer 0%
Europe, Middle East & Africa:
Women 50.7%
Men 49.3%
Declined to answer 0%
Latin America:
Women 54.6%
Men 45.5%
Declined to answer 0%
North America:
Women 47.5%
Men 52.2%
Declined to answer 0.3%
Employment type Full-time employees:
Women 73,826
Men 76,054
Declined to answer 150
Part-time employees:
Women 3,048
Men 599
Declined to answer 0
Fixed-term employees:
Women 2,784
Men 2,209
Declined to answer 9
Job category(d)(g)(j) Vice Presidents:
Women 41.2%
Men 58.0%
Declined to answer 0.8%
Directors and Managers:
Women 49.2%
Men 50.6%
Declined to answer 0%
Professionals:
2022 Health for Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DE&I) continued Women 51.5% Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DE&I) continued
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DE&I) continued
Humanity Report Men 48.4%
Metric Description DMeectrliince Vda tolu aen swer: 0.1% MMeettrriicc DDeessccrriippttiioonn MMeettrriicc VVaalluuee
MGeanndaegre Rmeepnrte asnedn teaxtieocnu(at)i(vbe)(c p)(io) sitions(g) Women in management positions EGtehnndice/rR Raceiparle Dsievnetrastiitoyn(b()a )i(nb )(tch)(ei) U.S. by Job Category(a)(c)(d)(g)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DE&I) continued
49.0%
Region(d)(j) Asia Pacific: Region(d)(j) Asia Pacific:
Women in executive positions Professionals White 61.7%
Women 49.4% Women 49.4%
Metric Description M38e.t5r%ic Value Asian 13.8%
Men 50.6% Men 50.6%
Diversity in Board Composition Declined to answer 0%
B Dl ea cc lk in/A edfr i tc oa n
a
nA sm we er ri c 0a %n 8.3%
Hispanic/Latino 11.2%
Diversity in Board Composition(f) WEuormopeen, 5M0i.d0d%le East & Africa: Europe, Middle East & Africa:
Other 2.6%
EWthonmice/nR 5a0ci.a7l% D iversity 25.0% Women 50.7%
Declined to answer 2.4%
Men 49.3% Men 49.3%
Global Age Diversity U Dn ed cle inr e3 d0 t1 o7 a.0 n% sw er 0% New Employee Hires(h) Declined to answer 0%
30-50 62.7%
Latin America: Latin America:
Total number of new hires 24,940
5W1o+m 2e0n.3 5%4 .6% 2 Women 54.6%
DMeecnl in4e5d.5 t%o answer 0% Region(d)(i)(j) AMseian P45a.c5if%ic 25.2%
Age Diversity(e) by Job Category(a)(c)(d)(g) Declined to answer 0% EDuercolipnee,d M toid adnles wEears t0 &% A frica 19.4%
North America: LNaotrinth A Ammeerricicaa 2: 2 .3%
Vice Presidents UWnodmeer n3 04 70..50%% NWoormthe Anm 4e7r.i5c%a 33.2%
3M0e-n5 05 24.52.%3% Men 52.2%
5D1e+c l5in4e.d7 %to answer 0.3% Declined to answer 0.3%
DEmirepclotoyrms eanntd t yMpaen agers UFunldl-etirm 3e0 e1m.6p%lo yees: G Emen pd loe yr mre ep nr te ts ye pn et ation(b)(i) W Fuo llm -tie mn e 5 e3 m.8 p% lo yees:
3W0o-5m0e 7n2 7.03%,8 26 M We on m 4 e5 n. 8 7% 3, 826
5M1e+n 2766.,40%54 D Me ec nl in 7e 6d ,0 t 5o 4 a nswer 0.3%
Declined to answer 150 Declined to answer 150
Professionals Under 30 23.9%
Age(e) Under 30 42.8%
Part-time employees: Part-time employees:
30-50 59.1%
30-50 51.3%
Women 3,048 Women 3,048
51+ 17.0%
Men 599 5M1e+n 55.999%
Ethnic/Racial Diversity in the U.S.
Declined to answer 0 Declined to answer 0
Independent Assurance Statements
Ethnic/Racial Diversity in the U.S.(j) WFixheitde- t6e2r.m4% em ployees: (a) Global Employees is the global employee headcount as of December 31, 2022 from Johnson & JohF ni sx oe nd ’s- Hte ur mm a ne Rm ep solo ury ce e e Ins fo: r mation System
AWsoiamne 1n6 2.2,7%8 4 (HRIS). “Employee” is defined as an individual working full-time or part-time, excluding fixed-term eWmpolomyeeens, 2in,t7er8n4s and co-op employees. Fixed-
BMleanck 2/A,2f0ri9ca n American 7.5% term employees is defined as employees with a contract for a limited period that ends when the speMcieficn t im2,e2 p0e9ri od expires, or when the specific
task or event that has an attached time estimate is completed. Fixed-term contracts make up less than 5% of total employees plus individuals on
HDiescplainneicd/ Ltoa tainnos w9e.8r% 9 fixed-term contracts. Employee data may not include data from more recently acquired companies Dwheoc alirnee ndot tyoe ta renfslewcteedr i9n HRIS (which does
not exceed two years from the date of acquisition), and individuals on long-term disability are excluded. Contingent workers (i.e., workers supplied
Job category(d)(g)(j) OVitchee rP 2re.3s%id ents: Jobby c thaitred-gpoarrtyy (adg)(eg)n(jc) ies that are the worker’s employer of record), contractors and subcontractors arVe iacleso P erxeclsuiddeedn. Atsb:io med headcount is
DWeocmlineend 4 t1o. 2A%ns wer 1.7% excluded from global employee data, as well as other employee and DEI-related disclosures. Women 41.2%
(b) Gender and ethnic/racial diversity are reported in accordance with the gender, ethnicity and race as self-reported by the employee and recorded in
Ethnic/Racial Diversity(b) in the U.S. by Job Category(a)(c)(d)(g) Men 58.0% HRIS as of November 9, 2022. “Other” is defined as employees who self-reported as American IndMiane onr A5l8as.0ka%n Native, Native Hawaiian or Other
Declined to answer 0.8% Pacific Islander, or two or more races. Declined to answer 0.8%
Vice Presidents WDihreitcet o6r8s. 0a%nd Managers: (c) An individual working full-time is defined as an employee working 40 hours or more a week. An indiDvidirueacl twoorrsk inagn pda rMt-taimnea igs edersfin: e d as an
employee working less than 40 hours a week.
AWsoiamne 1n3 4.79%.2 % Women 49.2%
BMleanck 5/A0.f6ri%ca n American 7.3% (d) The region and job category is obtained from HRIS as of December 31, 2022. Men 50.6%
HDiescplainneicd/ Ltoa tainnos w8e.5r% 0% (e) Age diversity is reported in accordance with the age as self-reported by the employee and recorded D in e cH lR inIS e das to of t ah ne sd wat ee ro f 0 h %ire .
(f) Gender and ethnic/racial diversity in the Board composition is reported in accordance with the gender and ethnicity as confirmed by Board
OPrtohfeers 1s.i9o%na ls: members as of April 2023. Professionals:
DWeocmlineend 5 t1o. 5A%ns wer 0.6% (g) Professional positions are defined as paygrades 20-26. Management positions are defined as paygWradoem 3e0 na n5d1 a.b5o%ve . Executives are defined as
employees reporting directly to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer based on an organization chart including names and positions as of
Directors and Managers(j) WMehnit e4 86.34.%1% December 31, 2022. Men 48.4%
ADseicalnin 1e9d. 6to% a nswer: 0.1% (h) New employee hires are external hires with a start date between January 1, 2022 and December 31D, e2c02li2n eobdt atione ad nfrsowm eHrR: I0S.. 1%
Management and executive positions(g) BWlaocmke/Anf rinic amna Anamgeermicaenn t6 p.6o%sit ions (i) M aW nh ae gre e mthe e v na tl u ae n fo dr e“D xe ec clin ue td iv t eo a pn os sw ie tir o” nis s ro (gu ) nded to zero and was zero in the prior year, it was e Wxc olu mde ed n fr o inm mthe a nre ap gor ete md eta nb tle p. ositions
(j) Values have been rounded to the nearest tenth. Due to rounding, the numbers presented do not add up precisely to 100.0%.
H49is.0p%an ic/Latino: 8.0% 49.0%
OWtohmere 2n. 0in% e xecutive positions Women in executive positions
D38e.c5l%ine d to answer 0.8% 38.5%
110
2 2
4
32022 Health for
Employee Retention and Turnover Employee Safety continued
Humanity Report (f) SIIC rate is calculated as follows and the data used in the calculation is obtained from the internal Johnson & Johnson CURVE system: (number of
Metric Description Metric Value SIIC * 200,000 work hours)/total work hours.
Managers and above moved across functions, country or business segment 46.2%
Ethics and Compliance (Inquiries and Complaints as Recorded with Our Credo Integrity Line by Category)
lines (a)(b)(c)
Overall voluntary turnover (d) 8.8% Metric Description Metric Value
Inquiries and complaints as recorded with Our Credo Integrity Line by Human Resources-related 71%
Voluntary turnover of high performers (e) 4.2%
Category(a)(b) Business integrity-related 11%
Other (privacy, information security,
(a) Represents the percentage of employees in Manager and above job categories (defined as paygrade 30 and above in HRIS as of December 31, general security, EH&S, etc.) 6%
2022) who, in their career progression, moved through upward promotion or lateral transfer during the reporting year.
(b) Employee count excludes fixed-term, intern, and co-op employees, employees on long-term disability, employees from more recently acquired General information questions
companies who are not yet reflected in HRIS (which does not exceed 2 years from the date of acquisition), and employees in the research & 3%
development (R&D) organizations in the Pharmaceutical, MedTech and Consumer Health business segments.
(c) Employee movement is tracked monthly in HRIS and then consolidated at year end. If an employee moves, for example, across both function and Financial-related 4%
country in the same month, it is only counted as one move.
Human rights-related 1%
(d) Employee count excludes fixed-term, intern, and co-op employees, employees on long-term disability, and employees from more recently acquired
companies who are not yet reflected in HRIS (which does not exceed 2 years from the date of acquisition). Voluntary turnover (the numerator) Product quality and patient safety-
excludes employees leaving the company due to retirement or death. related 3%
(e) High performer is defined as an individual with two consecutive annual performance ratings of Exceptional/Exceptional, Exceptional/Strong or
Strong/Exceptional (note that “exceptional” and “strong” are two out of four possible dimension ratings). Employees who are not part of the
performance management process are excluded from the voluntary turnover of high performers metric out of four possible dimension ratings). (a) Johnson & Johnson’s anonymous grievance mechanism includes 13 inquiry and complaint categories for the person reporting to select from when
Employees who are not part of the performance management process are excluded from the voluntary turnover of high performers metric.
reporting inquiries and complaints. Field reports are then summarized into seven reported categories by Johnson & Johnson. “Other” consists of
the following categories: privacy, information security, global security, Environment, Health & Safety (EH&S), legal/regulatory and report follow up.
Employee Safety(a)(b) (b) Johnson & Johnson’s Triage Committee and case investigators have the ability to change the category of an inquiry or complaint upon receipt
using a set of established criteria in Our Credo Integrity Line. This occurred for no more than 16% of total recorded inquiries and complaints.
Metric Description Metric Value
Lost Workday Case rate(c)(d) Global 0.06 Compliance-Related Allegations Investigated Through Triage Committee(a)
Asia Pacific 0.08
Metric Description Metric Value
Europe, Middle East & Africa 0.05
Number of compliance-related allegations investigated 749
Latin America 0.01
Independent Assurance Statements North America 0.06 Percentage of compliance-related allegations investigated, by category Healthcare compliance(b) 55%
Financial(c) 36%
Total Recordable Injury Rate(e) Global 0.23
Other(d) 9%
Asia Pacific 0.15
Europe, Middle East & Africa 0.20
Latin America 0.21 (a) Compliance-related allegations can be filed by internal or external parties, and for those allegations that meet the internal escalation criteria, they
are logged and categorized by Johnson & Johnson management within Johnson & Johnson’s sensitive issue case management system and then
North America 0.29 presented to and investigated through the Johnson & Johnson Triage Committee. Internal escalation criteria includes actual or alleged (i) non-
compliance with internal Johnson & Johnson policies that could result in termination of the employee; (ii) expense violations exceeding $1,000;
Serious Injury and Illness Case rate(f) Global 0.03 (iii) theft, fraud or misuse of funds exceeding $1,000; (iv) non-compliance with laws and regulations, such as anti-corruption laws or human
Asia Pacific 0.030
trafficking rules; (v) governmental non-compliance, such as failure to abide by relevant terms of a U.S. government invoice, contract or pricing
program, financial conflicts of interest, false or incomplete statements made to the U.S. government; (vi) data breach or privacy incidents; and
Europe, Middle East & Africa 0.020 (vii) misconduct by members of the senior leadership team.
Latin America 0.017 (b) Healthcare compliance allegations consist of violations of Health Care Compliance guidelines including U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
(FCPA) violations.
North America 0.039
(c) Financial allegations consist of asset misappropriation, conflicts of interest and financial statement-related.
(d) Other allegations consist of legal, quality, anti-trust, product registration and privacy.
Number of fatalities Global 0.0
(a) Includes data as of December 31, 2022 and hours worked in the reporting year. More recently acquired sites (i.e., owned less than two years as of EH&S Compliance and Certifications
December 31, 2022) are excluded from employee safety metrics.
(b) Lost Workday Case (LWDC) rate, Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR), Serious Injury and Illness Case (SIIC) rate and fatalities are calculated for Metric Description Metric Value
Johnson & Johnson employees and contingent workers. Contingent workers (i.e., workers supplied by third-party agencies that are the worker’s
employer of record) are intended to supplement or temporarily replace existing workforce and are directly supervised by a Johnson & Johnson Number of environmental non-compliances(a)(b) 167
employee. Cases from contractor/subcontractors (who are not contingent workers) are excluded. Reported illness/injury rates exclude COVID-19
illness cases. Fines paid for environmental non-compliances(a)(b)(c) (thousands) $11.7
(c) “Lost days” are calendar days where an employee is unable to work due to illness or injury, beginning the day after an incident has taken place
through the last day of leave (excluding holidays and vacations). Number of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 14001(d) 87
(d) LWDC rate is calculated as follows and the data used in the calculation is obtained from the internal Johnson & Johnson CURVE system: (number
of LWDC * 200,000 work hours)/total work hours. Number of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 45001(d) 20
(e) TRIR is calculated as follows and the data used in the calculation is obtained from the internal Johnson & Johnson CURVE system: (number of
recordable cases * 200,000 work hours)/total work hours.
111
5 62022 Health for EH&S Compliance and Certifications continued Our Credo Survey Results (a)
Humanity Report
Metric Description Metric Value Metric Description Metric Value
Percentage of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 14001(d)(e) 91% Number of languages Our Credo Survey is made available in 36
Percentage of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 45001(d)(e) 20%
Number of countries Our Credo Survey is administered in 77
Response rate (among all active employees)(b) 92%
(a) Environmental non-compliances represent instances of non-compliance with environmental regulatory requirements or laws that were either (i)
self-reported to authorities in the reporting year or (ii) identified by authorities and the non-compliance occurred in the reporting year. The Favorability rate(b)(c) 87%
authorities include regional, national, state/country/province, and local/city regulatory agencies.
(b) Environmental non-compliances and fines paid exclude newly acquired sites (i.e., owned less than two years as of December 31, 2022). Percentage agreed with the statement: Ensures our first responsibility is to 92%
(c) Fines paid for environmental non-compliances include those paid in the reporting year. It does not include fines assessed and/or under
the patients, doctors and nurses, mothers and fathers, and all others who
negotiation that were not paid as of December 31, 2022.
(d) Certified to ISO 14001 or ISO 45001 means the site has received an external certification that is valid as of December 31, 2022. use our products and services(b)
(e) The denominator of total manufacturing and research & development (R&D) sites excludes small R&D and manufacturing sites (defined as
Percentage agreed with the statement: Provides an inclusive work 86%
having less than 50 employees) and newly acquired sites (i.e., owned less than three years as of December 31, 2022).
environment where each employee is considered as an individual(b)(c)
Product Quality Indicators Percentage agreed with the statement: Acts responsibly to the communities 92%
in which we live and work and the world community as well(b)(c)
Metric Description Metric Value
Number of regulatory inspections(a) of Johnson & Johnson sites by 537 (a) Johnson & Johnson conducts the Our Credo Survey biannually to track employee sentiment globally. Our Credo Survey metric data is collected
worldwide health authorities(b)
(b)
a An cd
tiv
s et o er med
p
li on
y
a
e
eth si r id n- cp lua drt ey Jp ola ht nfo sr om n.
& Johnson employees as of December 31, 2022, who completed the 2022 Our Credo Survey, and excludes
Percentage of regulatory inspections(a) that resulted in zero 75% f fi ox re ld e- st se r tm ha, nin tt he rr en e, a mn od
n
c to hs-o
.
p employees, employees on long-term disability, contractors, and employees that have been with Johnson & Johnson
observations(b)
(c) Favorability rate is calculated by determining the percentage of “agree” or “strongly agree” responses out of all responses for all Our Credo
Survey questions. Response types include: strongly disagree, disagree, neither agree or disagree, agree, strongly agree, do not know. Questions
Number of FDA inspections of Johnson & Johnson sites(c) 8 without responses are removed from the numerator and denominator.
Percentage of FDA inspections that resulted in zero observations(c) 63%
Average number of observations per FDA inspection(c) 2.9 Tax Contribution (Billions)
Number of independent audits of Johnson & Johnson sites to ensure 166 Metric Description Taxes Borne Metric Value (a) Taxes Collected Metric Value (a)
compliance with Johnson & Johnson Quality Policy and Standards(d)
Independent Assurance Statements Corporate income tax(b) $5.2 -
Number of independent audits of external manufacturing sites(e) to 275
ensure compliance with Johnson & Johnson Quality Policy and Payroll & social insurance taxes(c)(d) $1.6 $4.9
Standards(d)
Sales/use & other taxes(c)(e) $0.9 $1.1
Number of FDA warning letters issued 0
Product recall rate(f), by business segment(g) Pharmaceutical 0.003% Total $7.7 $6.0
MedTech 0.005%
Consumer Health Self-Care OTC 0%
Total tax contribution(f) $13.7
(a) A regulatory inspection is defined as an inspection conducted by the health authority to determine compliance with applicable laws and
regulations. (a) Taxes borne are a direct cost to Johnson & Johnson. Taxes collected are not a direct cost to Johnson & Johnson as they represent taxes
(b) Health authorities are organizations with authority over the development, manufacture, distribution, placing on the market, and post market collected from customers and employees on behalf of governments, which are ultimately remitted to the governments.
surveillance of products. For example, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Korean Food and Drug Administration (KFDA), British (b) Corporate income tax represents income and withholding taxes paid in all markets in which Johnson & Johnson operates.
Standards Institution (BSI), and Health Canada. The observations identified during the inspection are listed on a form provided by the third-party (c) Payroll & social insurance taxes and sales/use & other taxes are based on data collected for 22 major markets that represent approximately 97%
health authority who conducted the inspection. of total 3rd party and intercompany sales recorded for the market. These taxes are not reported for the remaining markets that represent
(c) An FDA inspection is defined as a regulatory inspection performed by the FDA and an observation is defined as the observed condition or approximately 3% of total 3rd party and intercompany sales recorded for the market.
practice indicating that an FDA-regulated product may be in violation of FDA requirements. The observations are listed on FDA Form 483 during (d) Payroll & social insurance taxes borne represent taxes paid directly by Johnson & Johnson. Payroll & social insurance taxes collected represent
inspections conducted by the FDA and then provided to the manufacturer following the FDA inspection. amounts withheld from employees for federal (local country government), state and social contribution taxes, as well as contingent labor taxes
(d) Independent audits are conducted by internal Johnson & Johnson Regulatory Compliance auditors at Johnson & Johnson sites and external collected.
manufacturing sites. (e) Sales/use & other taxes borne represent sales/use tax, property tax, and non-recoverable value-added tax, as well as other taxes comprised of
(e) An external manufacturing site is defined as not owned or operated by Johnson & Johnson. customs and other duties and pharmaceutical fees imposed by the government on legal entities within the pharmaceutical industry for
(f) Product recall rate is defined as the number of lots removed from the market as a percentage of total lots globally manufactured, based on field prescription drugs. Sales/use & other taxes collected represent the net value-added tax (VAT) (VAT output less VAT input) and sales tax
action removals where it has been determined internally by a Quality Review Board and aligned by Johnson & Johnson Enterprise Compliance, collected.
that there is a reasonable probability that the product may cause temporary or medically reversible adverse health consequences and in certain (f) Total tax contribution is made up of two components: total taxes borne by Johnson & Johnson and total taxes collected.
cases will cause serious adverse health consequences. A lot is defined as a specific quantity of material that has uniform character and quality
and was released to market during the 2022 calendar year.
(g) The Pharmaceutical and MedTech recall rates consider all products in each business segment. The Consumer Health product quality recall rate
is inclusive of Consumer Health products from the Self-Care over-the-counter (OTC) business segment.
112
8
7Glossary
2022 Health for
Humanity Report
Acronym Definition Acronym Definition
Global nonprofit that promotes the humane treatment of animals in science. Formerly JJDC Johnson & Johnson Innovation—JJDC, Inc.
AAALAC
Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International
J&J MedTech Johnson & Johnson MedTech
AAPI Asian American and Pacific Islander
JLABS Johnson & Johnson Innovation—JLABS
AFib Atrial fibrillation
LAI Long-acting injectable
AI Artificial intelligence
LGBTQIA+ Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer or questioning, intersex, asexual and others
AMR Antimicrobial resistance
LMICs Low- and middle-income countries
APAC Asia Pacific
MDR-TB Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis
API Active pharmaceutical ingredient
ML Machine learning
ARV Antiretroviral
Norges Bank Investment Management (NBIM) and Basel Institute on Governance's "Measuring
BIPOC Black, indigenous, and people of color
NBIM effectiveness of anti-corruption programmes" reporting framework, adding disclosures against
CAR or CAR-T Chimeric antigen receptor or Chimeric antigen receptor T-cell this set of 17 indicators
CDC Centers for Disease Control and Prevention NGO Non-governmental organization(s)
CDP Global nonprofit for environmental impact disclosures. Formerly Carbon Disclosure Project NIH National Institutes of Health
DEI Diversity, equity and inclusion NIST National Institute of Standards and Technology
DR-TB Drug-resistant tuberculosis NTDs Neglected tropical diseases
EMA European Medicines Agency OTC Over-the-counter
EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa ORTHE Our Race to Health Equity
Glossary
ERG Employee Resource Group(s) PPA Power Purchase Agreement(s)
ERP Enterprise resource planning PPE Personal protective equipment
ESG Environmental, social and governance PTA Priority Topics Assessment
ExPEC Extraintestinal pathogenic Escherichia coli RLS Resource-limited settings
FDA U.S. Food and Drug Administration RNA Ribonucleic acid
GCI Global Community Impact RWD Real-world data
GHG Greenhouse gas or gases SDG Sustainable Development Goal (of the United Nations)
GPH Global Public Health SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
HCP Healthcare professional(s) SSP Supplier Sustainability Program
HIV Human immunodeficiency virus STEM2D Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics, Manufacturing and Design
HVAC Heating, ventilation and air conditioning TB Tuberculosis
IA Intelligent automation UNGPs United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
IP Intellectual Property WHO World Health Organization
1132022
Health
for Humanity
Report
Contact us:
Johnson & Johnson Enterprise ESG Program Office
WW-Corporate-Governance@its.jnj.com
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza
New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933
healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com