OUR PASSION TRANSFORMSIF THERE’S ONE THING ALL
122,200 OF OUR EMPLOYEES
SHARE, IT’S P ASSION.
For 120 years, the passion in our people has powered
every invention, every product, every breakthrough
we’ve brought to human health. This year was
an extraordinary testament to this fact.
Passion is part of who we are: the people of the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies.
It’s in our DNA. It’s what compels us to work for a corporation devoted to
improving the health and well-being of people the world over.
Our passion is further inspired by the values embodied in Our Credo,
which the employees of the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies
have practiced, treasured and handed down for generations.
Our Credo underscores our personal responsibility to put the needs and well-being
of the people we serve first. It liberates our passion and deepens
our commitment to delivering meaningful health innovations.
At Johnson & Johnson we take pride in knowing that
our daily work makes a difference in the world.
Now and for years to come, our passion
continues to transform human health.
ON THE COVER For Olga Vasukova, like so many of her colleagues at Johnson & Johnson, LLC in Moscow, supporting
her government’s initiative to modernize health care is a personal call to action. It’s reinforced by the smile on her father’s face
and the obvious joy in her daughter Sasha’s heart each time “Papa” pays a visit. For more on their story, see page 10.CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
To Our
Shareholders
Improving the health and well-being of
people around the world is a vital and
important business. It is perhaps the
world’s most meaningful business and, for
that reason, attracts exceptional people
who are capable, skilled, and possess a
genuine passion for making a difference
in people’s lives. As the world’s most
“Thanks to the dedication of our people in advancing human
comprehensive and broadly based health health and well-being, Johnson & Johnson delivered solid 2006
financial results while taking aggressive steps to position the
care company, Johnson & Johnson is
corporation for future growth.”
privileged to play a role in helping millions WILLIAM C. WELDON
Chairman, Board of Directors, and Chief Executive Officer
of people be well . . . and stay well.
considered too young for hip replacement to preserve
In 2006, thanks to the passion, hard work and ingenuity of our bone and return to active lives . . . and a new medicine from
people, we introduced hundreds of significant new products Tibotec Therapeutics Division of Ortho Biotech Products, LP
and line extensions across the enterprise. Many advances that offers hope to many treatment-experienced HIV patients
were discovered or invented by Johnson & Johnson scientists who thought they were running out of options.
and further developed by our R&D organizations. Among And this is just a small sampling of the new products
them: new NEUTROGENA® and AVEENO® skin care products introduced in 2006.
featuring a patented breakthrough in long-lasting protection At the same time, our focus on growing our broad base in
against the sun’s harmful UVA rays . . . a new diagnostic test human health care led to significant acquisitions across the
from Veridex, LLC that allows doctors to know, during enterprise, including Pfizer Consumer Healthcare, which
breast cancer surgery, whether a woman’s cancer has spread solidified our position as the world’s premier consumer health
to her lymph nodes . . . new implant technology from care company. Six key acquisitions in medical technology
DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. that enables adults previously further strengthened our position as the world’s largest and
NET SALES DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE DIVIDENDS PAID PER SHARE
(in billions of dollars) (in dollars) (in dollars)
$53.3 $3.73 $1.455
$47.3 $50.5 $3.35 $1.275
$41.9 $2.74 $1.095
$36.3 $2.29 $0.925
$2.06 $0.795
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER 1most broadly based medical also advancing at an unprec-
Opportunity for
devices and diagnostics edented pace. This means
company, where we hold the that opportunity for scientific
scientific innovation
No. 1 or No. 2 position in most innovation—including
of our major franchises. —including innovation innovation through technology
In pharmaceuticals, we convergence—has never been
strengthened our virology through technology more promising, especially
business with the U.S. launch for broadly based companies
of PREZISTA™ (darunavir) convergence—has never with the capacity to adopt
for patients diagnosed with and commercialize new
been more promising,
treatment-resistant HIV and technologies quickly.
continue to build a pipeline of Of course, systemic
especially for broadly
products targeting some of the increases in demand create
world’s most difficult-to-treat countervailing social forces,
based companies with
diseases. We also signed several including pressure on health
important licensing agreements the capacity to adopt care budgets, political pressure
that position us for growth for access to and affordability
in therapeutic areas—such and commercialize new of health care services and
as oncology, diabetes and products, demand for low-cost
hepatitis C—where serious technologies quickly. alternatives, increasing
unmet needs exist and where competition and challenges
the science is rapidly evolving. to intellectual property.
Thanks to the dedication These forces impact virtually
of our people in advancing human health and well-being, all participants in the health care marketplace.
Johnson & Johnson delivered solid 2006 financial results Our approach to addressing these underlying challenges is
while taking aggressive steps to position the corporation to find the right path with all of our stakeholders to sustainable
for future growth. Worldwide sales grew to a record long-term growth. At Johnson & Johnson, for over 60 years Our
$53.3 billion, a growth rate of 5.6 percent with operational Credo has focused our people on our responsibilities to a wide
growth of 5.3 percent. range of stakeholders: customers, patients, family members,
Net earnings as adjusted of $11.1 billion grew by employees, communities and shareholders. We have been long
9.2(1) percent, once again outpacing sales growth. We achieved acquainted with the need to find win-win propositions with
solid earnings growth in a year of slower sales growth by stakeholders all around the world. We also understand that
continued focus on productivity and cost management. solid financial returns will come from doing this well.
Adjusted earnings per share of $3.76 grew by 10.9(1) percent,
a higher rate than earnings due to completion of our $5 billion A WINNING FORMULA FOR GROWTH Johnson & Johnson is a unique
share repurchase program announced in March 2006. company. And in a world in which change is the only constant,
Johnson & Johnson is an enduring company.
STRONG GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES There has never been a more Our uniqueness goes well beyond the exceptional
exciting time to be the world’s most comprehensive and long-term financial results we have delivered for many
broadly based health care company. Our products and services decades. It derives from management philosophies that
bring high value; they are in increasing demand; and the define our unique business model and have guided us through
progress of science is opening new horizons for improving extraordinary changes in the science and economics of human
human health and well-being. health over much of the past century. We are:
Demographic and geographic trends will drive even · Founded on shared values embodied in Our Credo.
stronger demand for all categories of health care products in · Broadly based in human health care.
the years ahead. Much of the developed world’s population · Decentralized in the way we operate the business.
is aging, with an expectation of maintaining a full and active · Managed for the long term.
life. Furthermore, the rapid growth in demand for health Followed over time, these strategic principles are the
products and services in developing nations is creating a global source of our enduring strength and our ability to adapt and
expansion opportunity, especially for companies like ours flourish in a dynamic, ever-evolving industry. They encourage
that have the capacity to execute in many markets. Our successful operation of our businesses for both the near
products are sold in over 175 countries, making us ideally and the long term.
suited to capitalize on this trend. The chart on the next page shows the exceptionally
Equally important, the science of health and well-being consistent sales growth we have attained over the longer term.
is evolving rapidly, thanks in part to the wealth of information In 2006, we logged our 74th consecutive year of sales increases,
flowing from sequencing of the human genome. Moreover, our 23rd consecutive year of earnings increases adjusted for
scientific breakthroughs outside of biology—in materials special charges and our 44th consecutive year of dividend
science, electronics, computer science and other technologies increases. This is a record matched by very few, if any,
that underpin science-based health care solutions—are companies in history.
2 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTFINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
$60 JOHNSON & JOHNSON
AND SUBSIDIARIES
Sales 1946–2006
$50
(Dollars in Billions)
$40
�
$30
$20
$10
1946 1956 1966 1976 1986 1996 2006
2006 2005 2004 % CHANGE 2006 % CHANGE 2005
Sales to customers (in millions) $53,324 $50,514 $47,348 5.6% 6.7%]
Net earnings (in millions) $11,053 $10,060 $8,180 9.9% 23.0%]
Percent return on average shareholders’ equity 28.3% 28.2% 27.3% - -]
Diluted net earnings per share $3.73 $3.35 $2.74 11.3% 22.3%]
Cash dividends paid per share $1.455 $1.275 $1.095 14.1% 16.4%]
Market price (year-end close) $66.02 $60.10 $63.42 9.9% (5.2%)
We believe that our strategic principles, which have responsibility is to our stockholders and concludes by
served us well in the past, are even more relevant to our future saying that when we operate our business according to the
growth prospects as we look ahead to the strengths that responsibilities embodied in Our Credo, “the stockholders
will be required in an environment characterized by historic should realize a fair return.”
levels of rising demand and increasing economic and Our Credo is the connective tissue that allows us to manage
political complexity. this broadly based, highly decentralized company for the
long term. With Our Credo as the foundation, our three other
OUR CREDO: OUR STRATEGIC FOUNDATION The foundation of our strategic principles give us many distinct advantages.
principles is a deeply held common set of values embodied in
a 64-year-old document called Our Credo (see back cover). STRENGTH IN OUR BREADTH Since the 1920s, when we began
Robert Wood Johnson II wrote Our Credo just before to diversify beyond hospital products, Johnson & Johnson
Johnson & Johnson became a publicly traded company, and has been fully committed to being broadly based in human
since that time it has guided the actions of Johnson & Johnson health care. Today, we have leadership presence in three
people at all levels and in all parts of the world. distinct segments of the health care industry: consumer health
Put simply, Our Credo challenges employees to put the care; medical devices and diagnostics; and pharmaceuticals.
needs and well-being of the people they serve first. It asks Being broadly based in three diverse segments of health care
supervisors and colleagues to treat fellow employees with has helped us sustain consistently superior performance for
respect and dignity. It spotlights our responsibilities to the Johnson & Johnson shareholders through the years. When
communities in which we live and work as well as to the one portion of our business has experienced strong growth,
world community of which we are a part. It says that our final another may require stepped-up investment for future
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER 32006 SALES BY SEGMENT RESEARCH EXPENSE SHAREHOLDER RETURN
(in billions of dollars) Medical Devices (in millions of dollars) (%)
$53.3 TOTAL & Diagnostics S&P 500 Index
$20.3 S&P Pharmaceutical Index
$7,125
S&P Health Care Equip Index
38% $6,462 Johnson & Johnson
$5,344
11.7 12.0
8.4
7.8
Pharmaceutical Consumer
2004 2005 2006 10-YEAR COMPOUND ANNUAL GROWTH RATE
$23.2 $9.8
44% 18%
growth. A downturn in economic conditions in one health tralized businesses to grow their businesses faster than their
care segment may be offset by growth in another segment. competitors. They are driven to innovate . . . to bring greater
Even more important, our breadth offers four key value to the marketplace through internal discoveries, applica-
advantages that enable us to elevate our performance. tion of new science, technology, in-licensing and acquisition.
First, because of our closeness to customers—our strong We believe our decentralized approach to running the
partnerships with scientists and professionals across so many business yields better decisions—in the long run—for patients,
fields within human health and across so many geographies health professionals and other customers, because the
—we can identify and rapidly capitalize on the most attractive decision-makers are close to their customers and are in a
business opportunities emerging in human health. When better position to understand their needs.
we spot an emerging opportunity, our breadth enables us to Finally, our decentralized approach to managing the
quickly deploy the necessary resources to develop it. business is a tremendous magnet for talent, because it gives
Second, breadth allows for strategic transfer of knowledge, people room to grow and room to explore new ideas, thus
new technology, talent and capabilities internally across developing their own skills and careers.
business platforms and across business segments. Several
examples of strategic transfer of knowledge across business STRENGTH IN A FOCUS ON THE LONG TERM We manage our business
platforms and business segments are highlighted in the as a marathon, rather than a sprint. This too is a source of
following pages in the stories about the people behind some of enduring financial strength.
the innovative products introduced in 2006. Managing our business for the long term keeps us focused
Third, our breadth also gives us a clear advantage in on the underlying performance of our business. While conscious
converging technologies. Increasingly, breakthrough innova- of ongoing performance in all time frames, we focus on keeping
tions in new or adjacent markets are enabled by careful our businesses healthy for the long term.
integration of multiple technologies. Our people are accus- This forces us to anticipate and capitalize on change, to
tomed to working within and across our business segments to look at the future of our businesses through many different
incorporate technological breakthroughs that achieve impor- lenses—through the eyes of new customers, new markets,
tant innovations for customers. It’s like having access to the new technologies and new fiscal realities. A desire to capitalize
know-how, proprietary information and technology resources on changes in the global health care environment that favor
of many companies, but all within our own corporation. consumer-driven health care was part of our rationale for
Finally, our breadth also allows us to leverage scale in acquiring Pfizer Consumer Healthcare.
an increasingly competitive global environment. Through Managing our business for the long term leads us to
efficient application and deployment of resources around the intensify investments as needed to maintain our leadership
globe, we’ve been able to optimize our cost infrastructure, positions in key growth markets.
particularly in areas such as manufacturing, finance, A long-term view enables us to take prudent risks on
procurement and information technology. innovative ideas and completely new ways of doing things
—new and better products and alternative therapeutic
STRENGTH IN A DECENTRALIZED APPROACH The decentralized approaches, novel technologies, new and better manufacturing
manner in which we operate our businesses marries the best processes. Some of these long-term investments—such as our
qualities of smaller companies—an entrepreneurial drive for investment in Veridex’s fledgling cellular- and molecular-level
growth and close proximity to customers—with the resources, diagnostics platform—have the power to potentially transform
know-how and investment capital of a Fortune 50 company. the practice of medicine (see page 14), just as our initial
This strategic approach gives us many advantages over a investment in Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. over 15 years ago
centralized operation. One is a strong sense of ownership, led a revolution in minimally invasive surgery.
entrepreneurship, agility and accountability seldom seen Managing for the long term enables us to make smarter
in large multinational corporations. The leadership and acquisitions that deliver long-term shareholder value. We are
employees of our 250 operating companies around the world willing to take on important, challenging work, often requiring
are intensely competitive. We look to the leaders of our decen- sustained efforts, in order to achieve significant—and possibly
4 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTtransformational—outcomes. The long
view also gives us the courage to walk away OUR FOUR STRATEGIC PRINCIPLES
from the negotiating table when we believe
the price tag on an acquisition will not
deliver a strong long-term return on the
shareholder’s investment.
Managing for the long term also
entails careful evaluation of the long-term Broadly Based
prospects for each of our businesses. in
We regularly evaluate our business and
Human Health
product portfolios; we make tough decisions
to curtail projects and sometimes divest
Managed
entire businesses. Decentralized
for the
Finally, managing for the long term— Approach
along with our shared value system—has Long Term
helped earn us a reputation as a company
that is worthy of trust. Being trusted opens
doors to opportunities and growth. It opens
doors to prospective business partners with
new product ideas and new technologies . . . Founded on Shared Values
doors to research institutions working
on the health advances of tomorrow.
It opens doors to policy makers and
advocacy groups who want to hear our
perspective on improving the health care
Founded on Shared Values The foundation of our strategic principles is a
system in their countries (see stories on
deeply held, common set of values embodied in a 64-year-old document
pages 10 and 22).
called Our Credo. (See page 3.)
Managing our business for the long term
allows us to focus on shaping our future Broadly Based in Human Health Being broadly based in three diverse
rather than simply reacting to change. segments of health care has helped us sustain a consistent superior
performance for Johnson & Johnson shareholders through the years.
Even more important, our breadth offers four key advantages that enable
CONSUMER HEALTH CARE HIGHLIGHTS 2006 was
us to elevate our performance. (See page 3.)
a momentous year for our consumer health
care businesses. The completion of the Decentralized Approach The decentralized manner in which we operate
acquisition of Pfi zer Consumer Healthcare our businesses marries the best qualities of smaller companies with the
(PCH) in December solidifi ed our position resources, know-how and investment capital of a Fortune 50 company.
as the world’s premier consumer health care (See page 4.)
company, extending our leadership from 13
Managed for the Long Term Managing our business for the long term
to 22 consumer health categories. We have
keeps us focused on the underlying performance of our business. While
the world’s most diverse consumer health conscious of ongoing performance in all time frames, we focus on keeping
portfolio of large and sustainable platforms our businesses healthy for the long term. (See page 4.)
for growth.
With approximately half of PCH sales
outside the U.S., the acquisition also expands our reach into for their own health and well-being. Throughout the world,
attractive high-growth markets. It brings us growing and they are turning to OTC medicines and other non-prescription
enduring brand names that complement our own portfolio solutions to meet their health needs. Higher levels of dispos-
of strong and iconic brands. It broadens our oral health care able income in developing nations are creating increased
business into a signifi cant franchise with more than $1 billion demand for consumer health products in regions with
in sales. Further, it transforms our over-the-counter (OTC) large populations.
business, nearly doubling its size and solidifying our position Over and above the PCH acquisition, it was another good
as the worldwide leader in non-prescription medicines. year for our consumer health care businesses, which reached
The acquisition substantially diversifi es our OTC portfolio nearly $10 billion in sales. In total, our consumer health
and provides entry into high-potential categories such as businesses introduced more than 400 new products and
smoking cessation. signifi cant line extensions, helping to drive total sales growth
Strategically, this acquisition is vitally important, as the of 7.5 percent (see 2006 Year in Review: Consumer Health Care
market for consumer health care products becomes on pages 24–25).
increasingly attractive. Several demographic and social We believe the PCH acquisition, along with our access to
shifts favor increased demand for consumer health products. scientifi c knowledge and technologies fl owing from our
Consumers are taking greater interest in and responsibility pharmaceuticals and medical devices and diagnostics
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER 5businesses, will position us to continue as the world’s leader Tablets, JURNISTA® Prolonged-Release Tablets (hydromor-
in scientifically based, professionally endorsed consumer phone HCl), PREZISTA™ (darunavir) and IONSYS™ (fentanyl
health care products. iontophoretic transdermal system). We also received approval
for several significant line extensions for key products in major
PHARMACEUTICALS HIGHLIGHTS The overall environment for markets, including RISPERDAL® (risperidone) in the U.S. for the
the pharmaceutical industry continues to be challenging treatment of irritability associated with autism and REMICADE®
throughout the world, as downward pressures on pricing and (infliximab) in the U.S. for the treatment of chronic severe
reimbursement continue and patents on multibillion-dollar plaque psoriasis and for pediatric Crohn’s disease. In addition,
products—including some of our own—face expiration in the we received authorization from the European health
coming years. Nevertheless, 2006 was a good year for our authorities to restore subcutaneous administration of
pharmaceuticals businesses. Actions we took early in the EPREX® (epoetin alfa)/ERYPO® (epoetin alfa) for anemia in
patients with chronic kidney diseases.
In mid-2005, we communicated to the investment
community plans to file or secure approval of between 10 and
13 new prescription medicines by the end of 2007. I’m pleased
to report that we remain on track to meet that goal.
We fortified our pharmaceutical pipeline—already more
robust than at any point in our history—by adding four
new compounds through strategic licensing agreements.
These include two potential insulin sensitizers for treatment of
diabetes, an oncology compound and a novel protease inhibitor
for treatment of hepatitis C.
During 2006, we reorganized our pharmaceuticals business
to create three franchises: one focused on diseases of the
central nervous system (CNS) and internal medicine (IM), a
second focused on biotech, immunology and oncology (B.I.O.),
and a third focused on virology. The CNS/IM business is
responsible for sustaining our leadership positions in CNS
and pain management while building new global growth
platforms in antibacterials and cardiovascular disease. The
B.I.O. business is responsible for further strengthening our
global leadership in immune-mediated inflammatory disorders
and anemia management while expanding our emerging
global growth platform in oncology. And, as indicated previ-
ously, our virology business is working toward building
leadership positions in a range of virologic diseases with high
unmet medical needs.
MEDICAL DEVICES AND DIAGNOSTICS HIGHLIGHTS Our medical
devices and diagnostics (MD&D) segment performed well in
2006. Solid organic growth coupled with strategic acquisitions
across the segment position us for future growth in MD&D
“Our shared values help us to earn trust and respect. (see 2006 Year in Review: Medical Devices & Diagnostics,
Both are essential to a company devoted to improving the pages 29–31).
health and well-being of people the world over.” Total sales grew 6.2 percent, bringing our MD&D businesses
CHRISTINE A. POON to over $20 billion in annual revenue. We continue to be
Vice Chairman, Board of Directors the largest and most globally diverse medical devices and
diagnostics business in the world.
decade to strengthen our pipeline are starting to pay off. Innovation continues to drive the strong organic growth of
New drug approvals and a strong near-term pipeline have our MD&D businesses. In 2006, some 40 percent of our MD&D
positioned us to mitigate some of the impact of patent sales came from products introduced in the past five years.
expirations through the remainder of the decade. Since the beginning of 2006, we have acquired six
Total sales growth of our pharmaceuticals segment was strategically important medical device companies. Several
4.2 percent, and we continued to build for future growth. are examples of our focus on complementary growth. Hand
We had many significant accomplishments in this business Innovations, LLC, a leader in plating technology for wrist and
segment in 2006 (see 2006 Year in Review: Pharmaceuticals, hand fractures, is an important addition to the fast-growing
pages 26–28). trauma business within our DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. franchise.
In 2006, we received regulatory approvals to market four The acquisition of Animas Corporation, a leader in insulin
new products—INVEGA™ (paliperidone) Extended Release delivery systems, will enable LifeScan, Inc., a world leader in
6 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTdiabetes monitoring devices, OUR COMMITMENT TO YOU As
Our management
to enter the diabetes treatment you read the “stories behind
market. Even more important, the stories” of some of our key
philosophy, anchored in
this acquisition is an initial 2006 business developments
step in LifeScan’s plan to on the following pages, I trust
the value system embodied
develop integrated solutions you’ll see why we believe human
for total management of a health is such an exceptional
in Our Credo, allows us to
patient’s disease. business and why the type of
Future Medical Systems, people attracted to this
deal with the complexities
SA, a company that develops, business—and specifically
manufactures and markets to Johnson & Johnson—are
of balancing short-term
arthroscopic systems, adds driven by more than an ordinary
strength to DePuy’s fast- desire to serve and succeed
and long-term growth.
growing sports medicine in business.
business with an emphasis on We remain highly
minimally invasive procedures. optimistic about future
The acquisition of Vascular growth prospects for our
Control Systems, Inc. by business of improving human
Ethicon, Inc. adds momentum to Ethicon’s women’s health health and well-being, based on unprecedented demographic,
portfolio with the addition of less invasive treatment options geographic and social trends.
for uterine fibroids and related symptoms. As the most broadly based and comprehensive company
Two acquisitions add critical mass to our cardiovascular in this field—one with a well-balanced portfolio of businesses
businesses. Ensure Medical adds complementary post- in consumer health care, medical devices and diagnostics, and
catheterization closure technology for the femoral artery, pharmaceuticals—we will harness the benefits of increasing
but just as important, it brings critical mass to Cordis demand while continuing to work closely with various
Corporation’s R&D talent pool with a premier advanced stakeholders throughout the health care system.
research and development facility for interventional Our management philosophy, anchored in the value system
cardiology near San Francisco. Conor Medsystems has a embodied in Our Credo, allows us to deal with the complexities
unique controlled drug-delivery technology that will be of balancing short-term and long-term growth.
explored across a range of therapeutic categories. It Based on the outlook for growth in health care and our
immediately contributes to the development of next- confidence in our strategic approach—including the unique
generation technologies aimed at advancing the standard of benefits of our broadly based health care businesses—we are
care in treatment of cardiac and vascular diseases. committed to delivering capital-efficient, profitable growth by:
We believe the impressive number of new product intro-
· Participating in the fastest-growing segments of human
ductions, the many exciting products in our MD&D pipeline
health care
and the acquisitions we made in 2006—many of which bring us
· Building and sustaining leadership positions based on
unique competitive advantages—will enable us to remain the
superior science and innovation
world’s leader in medical technology and accelerate our growth
· Managing our businesses to achieve superior rates of
in this exciting health care segment.
return for our shareholders
OUR THANKS Before concluding, I’d like to take a moment to The real strength of this corporation is and always has been
acknowledge two retiring Board members for their exceptional our people . . . their talent, their drive, their passion and their
contributions to our Company. aspirations to make a difference in this world. These traits
First, I wish to recognize Ann Jordan, who will retire enable us to bring forward innovations that improve the lives
from our Board of Directors in April 2007. Mrs. Jordan was and well-being of people all over the world. These same traits—
elected to our Board 26 years ago and has brought her deep embodied in the character and quality of our people—have also
experience in health care and social services to bear in helping helped us deliver superior performance to our shareholders
guide our Company, especially in her roles as chairman of the and will continue to be the source of our enduring success in
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee, member of the future.
the Compensation & Benefits Committee and past chairman
of the Public Policy Advisory Committee.
I also wish to thank our recently retired Vice
Chairman, Board of Directors, and Chief Financial Officer, William C. Weldon
Robert J. Darretta, for his 39 years of commitment to Chairman, Board of Directors,
Johnson & Johnson and his steady hand at the financial helm and Chief Executive Officer
of this corporation during the past decade. Bob has been
March 14, 2007
instrumental in helping us deliver consistent sustainable,
superior performance and has been a visible and vocal
(1)Excludes in-process research and development and the Guidant acquisition agree-
proponent of our enduring strategic principles. ment termination fee. See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, page 80.
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER 7OUR STORIES
Behind every new product that our family of companies introduces—behind every one of
our partnerships to advance the health and well-being of people around the world—
stands a team of people, their passion and a story. The stories behind our 2006 accomplishments reveal
much about the character of our people and the aims of our company. As you read these stories,
we hope you’ll see how our strategic principles play out in reality—how they liberate our people to
pursue a consumer research insight, solve a scientifi c puzzle, pursue a big, bold vision and collaborate
with colleagues half a world away to make a real diff erence in people’s lives.
OUR PASSION TRANSFORMS:
Fun in the Sun
M
any years of bicoastal cooperation between two skin care scientists,
working in two diff erent Johnson & Johnson companies, have resulted in a
remarkable sun-protection breakthrough: a patented advanced sunscreen
system with stronger, more eff ective and longer-lasting protection against the most
dangerous kind of damage the sun’s rays can infl ict on human skin.
Dermatologists are calling it one of the biggest about the link to sun exposure and the conse-
sun-protection innovations in the last 20 years quent need for protection. Manufacturers
—a paradigm-transforming technology that of skin care products began adding new sun
provides stable, broad protection against the protection into a remarkably wide range of
dangerous UVA rays that penetrate deeply into skin care products. Before long, the ‘SPF’—
skin layers, reducing collagen and elastin. or sun protection factor—became a price of
UVA rays have been clinically implicated in sun- market entry, not just an added benefi t, for
induced aging of the skin as well as skin cancer. every new skin care product.”
“Incidental exposure to sun is cumulative,” But consumers were getting a false sense
explains Curtis Cole, a Ph.D. photobiologist of security from high SPF numbers in their
BICOASTAL TEAMWORK
and Senior Director of Skin Care Technology sunscreen products, even those containing the
Curtis Cole, Ph.D. (left),
at Johnson & Johnson Consumer Products UVA fi lter avobenzone: “On its own, avoben-
and Rick Woodin have
Company Division of Johnson & Johnson collaborated for 10 years. zone—the most eff ective broad-spectrum fi lter
Consumer Companies, Inc. in Skillman, N.J. blocking UVA rays—breaks apart at the molec-
“At any time, a single tiny photon of sunlight on unprotected ular level after it absorbs energy from sunlight. As early as 1987,
skin could become the tipping point for cancer.” my lab team and I tried to photo-stabilize avobenzone by adding
Evidence of UVA damage—which can include wrinkling, another chemical. After many years of eff ort, we found that a
sagging and mottling—may not reveal itself until years after chemical called DEHN would help stabilize avobenzone, but
unprotected skin has been exposed to the sun. In contrast, only to 40 percent—and we wanted a higher level of stability.”
UVB rays—which attack the skin’s uppermost layers—
can cause sunburn in a matter of minutes. THE SOLUTION ARRIVES “When we added a third ingredient—
oxybenzone—we saw an interesting chemical mechanism
TEN YEARS OF RESEARCH It took 10 years of research and of action: DEHN accepts the excess energy absorbed by
development work for Dr. Cole and his West Coast partner— avobenzone, then transfers it to oxybenzone, which converts
Rick Woodin, a photochemist and Director of Product the UV light to harmless red light without sacrifi cing
Development at Neutrogena Corporation—to crack the UVA avobenzone’s ability to absorb incoming photons.
protection code, then to help franchise-level marketers “This was what we had been seeking for years,” adds Cole.
develop a portfolio of skin care products with unparalleled sun “Finally, we had a remarkably long-lasting sunscreen
protection under the NEUTROGENA® and AVEENO® trademarks. that would not break down in sunlight and would block the
Recalls Dr. Cole: “In the mid-’80s, the American Academy of most harmful rays. As a fi nal touch, we added some conven-
Dermatology launched an intensive public-education program tional UVB fi lters to fortify the SPF to provide people true
about skin cancer. It raised consciousness around the world broad-spectrum protection.”
8 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTSOARING SUCCESS The NEUTROGENA® and AVEENO® advanced sunscreen products are flying off retail shelves.
Light textured and easily absorbed, they provide maximum protection against the sun’s most damaging rays.
Dr. Curtis Cole, Ph.D., a photobiologist and Senior Director of Skin Care Technology at Johnson & Johnson
Consumer Products Company, advises: “It’s important for people to remember to reapply sun protection after
a swim and for parents to remember to reapply it to children’s skin when they take a break from the water.”
Explains Woodin: “Curt was then able to write a with natural ingredients clinically proven to even out
Johnson & Johnson patent for a new synergistic technology skin tone and improve blotchiness and discoloration
affording intellectual property protection within current caused by previous sun exposure. The AVEENO®
regulatory guidelines. This enabled rapid product deployment products contain the patented Total Soy Complex
in the U.S. marketplace. But an idea is only as good as its execu- (a natural moisturizer) and vitamin E, a strong antioxidant
tion—so we worked hard to give consumers the most delightful that slows the UVA-induced “free radical” chain reac-
aesthetic experience possible with the new technology.” tion thought to cause wrinkling in otherwise-youthful
skin. AVEENO® calls the new patented technology ACTIVE
GO-TO-MARKET STRATEGIES In 2006, both NEUTROGENA® PHOTOBARRIER COMPLEX™.
and AVEENO® successfully launched new lines of skin care
products containing the newly patented advanced sunscreen WHAT’S NEXT? “Curt and I will be working together, as we
technology. NEUTROGENA®, which rolled out five new have for a decade, on exciting new exponentially transforma-
consumer products and a special one for dermatologists to tive projects,” says Woodin. “That’s why people become
dispense, calls the new technology HELIOPLEX™. scientists—to break barriers, to bring forward new inventions
AVEENO® launched five new advanced sunscreen products and to advance the boundaries of technology.”
American Optometric Association Recognizes Vistakon’s UV-Blocking Lenses
Cristina Schnider, Director, Association’s (AOA) Commission on Dr. Derrick Artis, Director, Customer
Medical Affairs at Vistakon division of Ophthalmic Standards. Development, who also played a role
Johnson & Johnson Vision Care, Inc., “Not all contact lens lines offer UV in securing the AOA Seal, adds,
was pleased to oversee efforts to se- protection, and of those that do, not all “Our hope is to generate awareness
cure for the ACUVUE® ADVANCE™ provide similar absorption levels,” explains of the potential for these lenses to help
and ACUVUE® OASYS™ Brand Contact Dr. Schnider. “ACUVUE® ADVANCE™ and reduce some of the cumulative
Lenses the first-ever Seal of Acceptance ACUVUE® OASYS™ Brand Contact Lenses effects of UV radiation that have been
Dr. Derrick Artis and
for Ultraviolet Absorbing Contact are the only contact lenses to meet the shown to increase the chance of
Dr. Cristina Schnider
Lenses from the American Optometric highest UV-blocking standards.” developing eye problems later in life.”
FUN IN THE SUN 9OUR PASSION TRANSFORMS:
Social Responsibility
F
or Olga Vasukova, it’s personal … the responsibilities she feels,
as an employee of Johnson & Johnson, LLC in Moscow, to
support her government’s initiative to modernize health care.
Given what happened to her father, how could it not be personal?
While Olga was studying at In the eyes of the more than 1,000
Harvard Business School in 2003, employees of the Johnson & Johnson
her “Papa,” Nikolay Vasukov, came Family of Companies serving Russia
from Russia for a visit. One night after and the CIS, the Russian government’s
dinner, Nikolay felt chest pain. new initiative is nothing less than a
“I phoned for an ambulance,” challenge to improve the health of
recalls Vasukova, who is now their friends, their loved ones. “Not
Strategic Affairs Director of surprisingly, our people undertake this
Johnson & Johnson, LLC, Medical mission with a results-driven mix of
Russia, headquartered in Moscow. professional commitment, youthful
“They took Papa to the hospital. The vigor and intense personal interest,”
doctors said narrowing of the blood says Naira Adamian, Country Manager,
vessels was restricting the blood flow Janssen-Cilag Russia.
through his coronary arteries. They
performed a coronary artery catheter- 2005: FIRST-EVER AWARD
ization and inserted a bare-metal stent FOR CIVIC INITIATIVES
in one artery to keep it open. The stent Throughout Russia and the CIS, the
was made by Cordis Corporation.” local Johnson & Johnson companies
Today, Nikolay, a vigorous support training programs for medical
61-year-old, visits Vasukova and his professionals and underwrite
6-year-old granddaughter, Sasha, other educational and philanthropic
often. “My daughter has energy to efforts that advance the new health
Several years ago, interventional cardiologists
burn, and Papa keeps right up with inserted a Cordis bare-metal stent in one of care agenda.
her,” says Vasukova. Nikolay Vasukov’s coronary arteries. Today, In 2005, the Russian
he enjoys visits with his daughter Olga and his government recognized these
energetic granddaughter Sasha.
WOULDN’T IT BE WONDERFUL? contributions by presenting
So when the Kremlin recently issued a directive calling for Johnson & Johnson with its inaugural Annual Corporate
comprehensive upgrades in the Russian health care system, it Social Responsibility Award. On the selection committee
became a personal call to action. “Wouldn’t it be wonderful if for the award were leading representatives of three sectors
every Russian grandfather could get the kind of medical care of Russian society—politicians, scientists and artists. The
my Papa received?” asks Vasukova. award cited many Johnson & Johnson civic initiatives,
The Russian government couldn’t agree more. In speeches including:
supporting the Kremlin’s directive, Russian President Vladimir · The contribution of more than $100,000 to victims of
Putin declared he wants to see “decisive yet prudent steps” the terrorist attack on a school in Beslan, Chechnya.
taken in “every city, town and village” to modernize health · Support of children with cerebral palsy, congenital heart
care throughout Russia and the entire Commonwealth of disease, leukemia and blindness.
Independent States (CIS). · Support of major HIV/AIDS philanthropic programs.
GOOD CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Throughout Russia, the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies supports educational
and philanthropic efforts that advance the nation’s new health care agenda. In 2005, the Russian government recognized
these contributions by presenting the company with its inaugural Annual Corporate Social Responsibility Award (top).
10 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTTOGETHERNESS Joining hands for a run across Moscow’s Red Square are Johnson & Johnson, LLC
employees (left to right) Igor Nemchenko, Managing Director, Consumer Group Russia; Vladimir Makatsaria,
Managing Director, Johnson & Johnson Medical Russia/CIS; Naira Adamian, Country Manager, Janssen-Cilag Russia;
and Sandy McIntire, Managing Director, Consumer Group Ukraine, Cilag GmbH International.
SERIOUS RESPONSIBILITIES “By taking very seriously the respon- Furthermore, some of the consumer company brands
sibilities outlined in Our Credo, Johnson & Johnson, LLC were recognized in 2006 with the prestigious Effie Gold and
became, in 2006, the largest health care company Effie “Most Trusted Brand” awards for the awareness and
in Russia,” says Vladimir Makatsaria, Managing Director, trust they’ve earned among Russian consumers. Says
Johnson & Johnson Medical Russia/CIS. “In other words, Igor Nemchenko, Managing Director, Consumer Group Russia:
we see this business milestone as a positive side effect of our “We strive to bring more science into consumer health prod-
wholehearted effort to support the government as it seeks to ucts. That’s a very important contribution to the health and
provide affordable, good-quality health care for every Russian well-being of the people we serve here in Russia …
adult and child.” and everywhere.”
In June, Johnson & Johnson, LLC opened a new 8,500-
square-meter office in the heart of Moscow to bring all local AN ACTIVE PARTNER “We are an active partner with the
employees under one roof for the first time. The first sight that Russian government in supporting health care reform
greets them each day is Our Credo etched in a large glass panel. and education,” says Adamian. “Health and science policy
Having won a national award for corporate social respon- makers have sought our counsel on a range of best practices,
sibility the previous year, Johnson & Johnson, LLC received and we’ve been able to draw upon knowledge of colleagues
the 2006 Moscow Employer of the Year Award from Human throughout the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies.
Resources Management, a respected Russian business journal. Our employees are playing a positive role in the future
Explains Makatsaria: “This is tantamount to a second national of Russian health care. And they’re playing this role with
award, in that 99 percent of all companies with a presence in remarkable passion and conviction, because it has such
Russia are headquartered in Moscow.” personal dimensions.”
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 11OUR PASSION TRANSFORMS:
Vision,
Beautifully
O
nce in a while, the success of a
new product exceeds even its
creators’ expectations. A case in
point is a new line of ACUVUE® Brand
Contact Lenses designed specifically to
enhance the attractiveness of dark Asian eyes.
In fact, the new line of disposable contact lenses adds a literal
layer of meaning to the saying “Beauty is in the eye of the
beholder.” The lens features a dark outer ring embedded
within the lens that makes the wearer’s iris appear larger—
an extremely subtle effect that many female (and even some developed in response to Asian customer research insights,
male) Asian contact lens wearers, notably in Korea and Japan, has helped 1-DAY ACUVUE® become a market leader there.
find particularly desirable. Many of those involved in developing the new brand are
The latest addition to the line, 1-DAY ACUVUE® DEFINE™ pleased the product has exceeded expectations. But one
Vivid Style Cosmetic Contact Lenses, was launched in Korea, Korean-born employee of Johnson & Johnson Vision Care, Inc.,
Singapore, China and Japan in the fall of 2006. This style Karren Koo, was confident from the outset that this
offers a dramatic option for those who want a more vibrant iris-enhancing concept would strike a responsive chord
iris-enhancing effect. with contact lens wearers in Asia.
LENS AFTER LENS The new 1-DAY ACUVUE® DEFINE™ is only A TALE OF TWO “KARENS” In 2003, Koo—at the time a
the latest in a strong pipeline of Vision Care products launched Johnson & Johnson Vision Care, Inc. marketing manager based
over the past two years. in Seoul, Korea—detected a consistent response in her market
For example, in 2005, the ACUVUE® ADVANCE™ Brand focus groups. “Asian women kept saying they wanted a lens that
Contact Lenses for ASTIGMATISM made its debut as the first would make their eyes appear bigger and more distinctive,” Koo
silicone hydrogel daily wear contact lens for people with astig- recalls. “This kept coming up in the research, time and again.
matism—a vision condition common to millions of children, “Additional research showed our customers wanted an
teenagers and adults. In addition, 1-DAY ACUVUE® MOIST™ Brand effect that was beautiful yet subtle and natural, as if they
Contact Lenses—with breakthrough LACREON™ technology— were born with it. In other words, the lenses needed to be
were launched that year in Europe, Middle East and Africa with their beauty secret,” Koo adds. “I felt certain that they would
considerable success. In Japan, 1-DAY ACUVUE® MOIST™ has respond favorably if we could combine a subtle, beauty-driven
become the fastest-growing product in that category. iris enhancement along with the outstanding health benefits of
The new iris-enhancing product, 1-DAY ACUVUE® DEFINE™ our popular 1-DAY ACUVUE® lenses.”
Brand Contact Lenses—including the first-launched Accent In meeting after meeting, Koo pressed her new-product
Style and the new Vivid Style—has already proved wildly idea with her colleagues in marketing and R&D. Her gentle
popular in the Asia-Pacific region. The new brand, which was persistence was finally rewarded when she was invited to
ABOVE Dr. Karin McCarthy (left), Karren Koo partner with “another Karen,” half a world away. A native
12 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTAt right: The dark outer ring embedded within the lens of the 1-DAY ACUVUE® DEFINE™ makes the iris appear larger.
of Denmark, Dr. Karin McCarthy is Manager of Cosmetics had to stay close to the voice of the customer to get the product
Development, a cosmetic-tints platform in the Research right. After our clinical trial there, we made subtle refinements
and Development Center of Vistakon, a division of that would dramatically enhance the appeal.”
Johnson & Johnson Vision Care, Inc. in Jacksonville, Fla. 1-DAY ACUVUE® DEFINE™ was launched in Korea in
Koo’s won’t-be-denied competitive spirit found its kin in November 2004 and then in Japan, the biggest Asian market,
Dr. McCarthy, a former Olympian who represented Denmark in February 2005. Over the next year, the new lenses were
in swimming events. Says Dr. McCarthy: “Our mutual friends rolled out to China, Singapore, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Thailand
in the company agreed that Karren and I, along with our market and Malaysia. “Response has been extremely positive among
research partners, were a perfect professional tag team, able female consumers of all ages. This innovation has also
to hand off to each other the market-based and science-based attracted new people into the contact lens category,” says Koo.
issues that might arise as we developed this exciting new
beauty-enhancing product line for the so-called ‘Asian eye.’” STRONG VISION FOR A VISION BUSINESS The year 2006 also
marked the 25th anniversary of the Johnson & Johnson Vision
A TURNING POINT IN JAPAN A critical turn in the development Care business, which—much like its beauty contact lenses for
of the product was a clinical trial in Japan, which was then Asian women—was created in a paradigm-shifting approach
essentially a virgin market for iris-enhancing lenses. In the based directly on consumer insight. ACUVUE® was the world’s
course of the study, Dr. McCarthy ensured the cosmetic effect first disposable contact lens.
of the prototypical 1-DAY ACUVUE® DEFINE™ lens would In its overall perspective, the Vision Care business aims
be appealing to Japanese consumers. Equally important was “to provide healthy vision to everyone, everywhere, every
gathering input from eye care professionals to ensure lens day.” It is the global market leader in the disposable contact
design met their needs. lens market.
In turn, Koo learned that Japanese consumers preferred the “Now, we’re blazing a new trail in the global marketplace
subtlest possible appearance of iris enlargement—the equiva- for contact lenses by putting greater emphasis on satisfying
lent of extra-thin eyeliner if it were an eye makeup product. the special needs and desires of customers in different geogra-
“The feedback from Japanese consumers gave Karin and me phies and cultures,” says Koo. “1-DAY ACUVUE® DEFINE™ is
some nuances to mull over,” recalls Koo. “We always knew we a perfect example.”
VISION, BEAUTIFULLY 13OUR PASSION TRANSFORMS:
The Power of Knowing
A
breast cancer surgeon never faces a more frustrating mid-operative moment
than having to close a woman’s surgical wounds without knowing whether the
breast cancer cells have metastasized, or spread, to the patient’s lymph nodes.
The answer comes, all right—but Ph.D., the scientist who led the early
only days later, when a biopsy report development of the GENESEARCH™
becomes available. And if the news is platform and now Vice President for
bad, the doctor has to call the patient, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)
whose wounds are healing, and ask for Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc.
her to come back for more—more (Ortho-Clinical). “In our new diagnostic
pre-op counseling, more sign-offs, platform, the genetic detective is a
more anesthesia, more surgery, more hunter of rogue DNA. It looks, at the
recovery, more pain, more scarring molecular level, for DNA that should
and more anxiety. not be present, DNA that indicates the
Fortunately, this all-too-familiar spread of cancer.
scenario need never occur again. “Detecting rogue DNA in lymph nodes
is essential to staging and treating the
NO MORE WAITING Now, a new disease with precision,” adds Atkins.
DNA-based diagnostic tool, the “Finding it, however, was thought to be
GENESEARCH™ Breast Lymph Node nearly impossible, due to the limitations
(BLN) Assay, can deliver test results of underlying technology. But the
in 35 to 45 minutes, while the breast team working on this project thought
cancer patient is still on the operating outside the box and developed a novel
table. No more false starts at healing. approach to detecting the rogue DNA
No more waiting several days for news,
Under the GENESEARCH™ brand, Veridex
intra-operatively.”
good or bad. No more second-surgery develops products based on molecular
heartaches. technology for gene expression profiling. THE VANGUARD OF A NEW ERA
Gene arrays such as this one help physicians
The GENESEARCH™ assays use Today, two out of every three medical
detect the presence of cancer earlier.
molecular-level patented technology decisions are based upon in vitro diag-
to diagnose, stage and/or more accurately characterize disease, nostic testing (conducted in a test tube or other controlled
far more quickly than ever before. environment)—a field in which Ortho-Clinical is a worldwide
“With GENESEARCH™, we can quickly obtain a result on leader. Says Roy Davis, Ortho-Clinical Company Group
the status of the sentinal lymph node,” says Dr. Jean-Marie Chairman: “As the focus shifts from lab operations to patient
Nogaret, Chief Breast Surgeon, Institut Jules-Bordet, Brussels, outcomes, diagnostic tools like GENESEARCH™—and another
Belgium. “It is a benefit for the patient and for the medical Veridex platform, CELLSEARCH™—will help write the next big
team, and it is more economical.” chapter in the history of medicine. They represent the vanguard
of a new era in which cellular- and molecular-based diagnostics
PIONEERING DIAGNOSTICS The new GENESEARCH™ diagnostic will enable doctors to manage more patients back to wellness
test was pioneered by Veridex, LLC. The GENESEARCH™ BLN rather than just coping with illness.”
test entered the European market in mid-2006 in compliance Ortho-Clinical is at the forefront of a major transformation
with EU in vitro medical device regulations. It received a happening in diagnostics. The company’s approach is two-
favorable FDA advisory panel review in December 2006. pronged. As Veridex introduces new diagnostic platforms
“The earlier a doctor can detect metastasized breast cancer in oncology, Ortho-Clinical’s franchise development group
in a woman’s lymphatic tissue, the better the outcome—and is actively engaged in identifying new biological markers in
that’s where GENESEARCH™ comes in,” explains David Atkins, select categories of major unmet medical needs. Many of these
14 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTNOVEL DIAGNOSTICS “We’re working to identify novel diagnostic and prognostic markers,” says Yixin Wang (left), Ph.D.,
Executive Director, Research & Development at Veridex. “The genetic detective . . . [looks] for DNA that should not be
present, DNA that indicates the spread of cancer,” explains David Atkins (right), Ph.D., Vice President, EMEA for
Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc., who led the early development of GENESEARCH™.
markers, when validated, will become the foundation for new, the Veridex molecular testing pipeline.”
high-value diagnostic tests—tests that have the potential to Wang’s other Ortho-Clinical responsibility is to support
identify disease states at earlier stages than ever before. pharmaceutical research and development teams in biomarker
CELLSEARCH™—unveiled in 2004—identifies, enumerates evaluation for drug development.
and characterizes circulating tumor cells directly from a “The name of the game is detecting cancer cells at
whole-blood sample. It is currently available in the U.S. for use the earliest possible point,” says Wang. “That’s what the
in metastatic breast cancer, and clinical trials are in progress GENESEARCH™ and CELLSEARCH™ platforms are
for application with additional cancers. designed to do. We look forward to bringing a series of
GENESEARCH™ and CELLSEARCH™ tests to market.”
STILL MORE TO COME Working as a project leader with “Our collective long-term dream at Ortho-Clinical and
Atkins on GENESEARCH™ was Yixin Wang, Ph.D., Executive Veridex,” says Davis, “is a world in which cancer is rarely
Director, Research & Development at Veridex. Says Wang: fatal, where diabetes never becomes full-blown and where
“The researchers in La Jolla are working to expand both heart attacks are circumvented through early detection.
GENESEARCH™ and CELLSEARCH™ to facilitate early detection The European introduction of the GENESEARCH™ BLN
of cancers. And we’re also working to identify novel diagnostic test is a testament that we are on our way to making the
and prognostic markers for major types of cancer to support dream a reality.”
THE POWER OF KNOWING 15OUR PASSION TRANSFORMS:
Humans vs. Microbes
T
hroughout history, some of humanity’s worst enemies have been infectious
diseases caused by microbes—one-celled or small multicelled life forms.
“Infectious diseases caused by bacteria and viruses have been one of
the most important causes of mortality for centuries and continue to be a medical
challenge,” says Paul Stoffels, M.D., Company Group Chairman, Research and
Development, CNS (Central Nervous System) and Internal Medicine, and founder
of Tibotec-Virco, a company acquired in 2002 that specializes in new treatments
for viral infections. “The most widely spread epidemics are called pandemics.
One of the deadliest has been HIV, which since 1981 has infected an estimated
60 million people, killing 25 million of them.”
Imaging Until AIDS, Globally, some
technology tuberculosis was 170 million
portrays humanity’s the leading cause people are
worst enemies— of death from infected with
in this case, HIV— infectious disease the hepatitis C
in astounding worldwide. virus (HCV).
detail.
The year 2006 was a milestone in science’s battle against “Global infectious diseases are among the greatest unmet
HIV: “It has been 25 years since the first case of AIDS, then medical challenges of our generation,” says Julie McHugh,
unnamed, was reported to the Centers for Disease Control,” Company Group Chairman, Virology. “Infectious diseases like
says Stoffels, who has dedicated much of his career to battling HIV, HCV and TB are truly global health issues. They require
the world’s most lethal viruses. “It has been 20 years since the pharmaceutical industry to create innovative solutions,
the first clinical trial of antiretroviral drugs, which inhibit not only by developing new best-in-class compounds
HIV genetic material in the patient’s blood. And it has been but also by bringing these medications to the patients who need
10 years since the debut of the first protease inhibitors, them in both industrialized and developing countries. Because
which prevent the virus from creating as many as 1 billion our innovative science addresses such urgent needs, we believe
new copies daily in an HIV-positive patient.” we have the opportunity to build a new sustainable business
while having a real impact on epidemics worldwide.”
NEW PROTEASE INHIBITOR Moreover, 2006 was the year that
a Johnson & Johnson operating company launched—in record UNIQUE R&D PROCESS PREZISTA™ is the result of a unique
time—a new protease inhibitor (PI) for patients who have pharmaceutical research and development process that relied
failed previous therapies, such as another PI. The new drug, on HIV drug-resistance insights gleaned from diagnostic tools
PREZISTA™ (darunavir), also known as TMC114, is marketed pioneered by Virco, an affiliate of Tibotec. Virco performed
in the U.S. by Tibotec Therapeutics Division of Ortho Biotech diagnostic tests to chart, on a molecular level, up to 250,000
Products, LP, and in other countries by the Tibotec divisions types of resistant HIV viruses worldwide; Tibotec then used
within the Janssen-Cilag companies. It signals the start of a the information to design a molecule that would be able
new global virology business franchise for Johnson & Johnson. to inhibit replication of the most prevalent drug-resistant
The franchise’s pipeline is robust with other novel investi- strains of the virus.
gational medications for HIV, for hepatitis C (HCV) and for “But beyond resistance, to truly benefit patients we also
tuberculosis (TB). TB is one of the most important opportu- had to be concerned with efficacy, safety, tolerability and conve-
nistic infections in HIV patients throughout the world. nience. PREZISTA™ is an important new option for treatment
16 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTWHERE IT ALL BEGAN Paul Stoffels, M.D. (right), Company Group Chairman, Research and Development,
is reunited in Mechelen, Belgium, with three founding members of his AIDS-fighting research team
(clockwise from bottom): Hilde Azijn, Senior Scientist, Tibotec Clinical Virology; Kurt Hertogs, Vice President,
Tibotec-Virco Scientific Operations; and Marie-Pierre de Bethune, Vice President, Tibotec Clinical Virology.
of experienced adult patients, such as those who have failed or Stoffels recalls: “By the late 1990s, the so-called ‘cocktail’ of
are resistant to more than one protease inhibitor. It may allow drug therapies seemed to have turned AIDS into a manageable
patients who have lived with a low level of virus for years to chronic disease, much like diabetes. But the hidden reality was
attain an undetectable viral load, a goal that is consistent with that the virus was continuing to build up resistance, threatening
current treatment guidelines,” says Roger Pomerantz, M.D., to destroy the hopes of people who were working so hard to
FACP, President, Tibotec Research and Development. live full and productive lives. As a patient, hearing that your
“In this respect, the development of PREZISTA™ has taught HIV infection has become drug-resistant—and that your viral
us a great deal about how to treat global infectious disease in load is increasing, not decreasing—is the second-worst day of
general,” continues Pomerantz. “It showed us that long-term your life, exceeded only by the day your physician gave you
suppression of viruses and microbes requires the development the original diagnosis.
of compounds that ‘fit’ a virus very neatly—and likewise fit “We felt we had to go the extra mile for that patient,
patients’ needs.” Additional studies are ongoing to evaluate no matter how long or arduous the task ahead—so we put
long-term outcomes of PREZISTA™ therapy. our heads, hearts and hands to work. Through an exceptional
commitment of the entire organization at Tibotec and Virco,
SCIENCE AS HERO The 15-year-long behind-the-scenes within record time we were able to discover and develop a novel
story of how Tibotec created PREZISTA™ illustrates how nimble, drug while we were building a new organization. Our people are
creative science was able to find a way to increase the the core of our success. The entire team is committed to making
genetic barrier to resistance for an insidious “smart” virus the difference for patients living with HIV/AIDS globally.”
that has proved itself a master of disguise, mutation and Tibotec-Virco Vice President of Scientific Operations
opportunistic survival. Kurt Hertogs, who has been at Stoffels’ side from the beginning,
HUMANS VS. MICROBES 17The discipline paid off. Only five
years elapsed between the first study
in humans (January 2001) and the
submission of filings (December 2005).
Says Stoffels: “In drug-development
terms, this is an extremely short time.”
A DEEP COMMITMENT TO HIV
In addition to PREZISTA™, which was
known as TMC114 throughout the
development process, Tibotec has two
other novel antiretrovirals—TMC125
and TMC278—in development. Both
investigational drugs are NNRTIs—
non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase
inhibitors.
TMC125, in late-stage develop-
ment, is the first investigational
NNRTI to show significant activity
in patients with prior NNRTI failure.
Clinical trials are also being conducted
to investigate its use in combination
with PREZISTA™. TMC278, an early
development compound, is highly
potent and, if successful, could become
the backbone for fixed-dose
combination therapy in a single pill.
The company continues to create
its own path in the world of HIV.
Another NNRTI compound, TMC120,
was licensed by the company to
the International Partnership for
Microbicides, a nonprofit product
development partnership, for develop-
ment as a vaginal microbicide. This
agreement, signed in 2004, was the first
GLOBAL HEALTH “Infectious diseases represent our greatest unmet royalty-free licensing arrangement of
medical challenges,” says Julie McHugh, Company Group Chairman, its kind in microbicide research and
Virology. Adds Roger Pomerantz, M.D., FACP, President, Tibotec Research is an approach that has since been
and Development: “Our new compound, PREZISTA™, ‘fits’ HIV neatly,
repeated by other manufacturers.
making it extremely difficult for the virus to mutate.”
says that the team “engineered against failure” by creating HIV IN WOMEN: A SPECIAL STUDY On the research front,
a timeline that gave specific details for each research and Tibotec Therapeutics—the company’s U.S. marketing,
development function on a day-to-day—and, eventually, sales and clinical arm—initiated in 2006 the largest clinical
hour-to-hour—basis: “We covered the walls of the Tibotec study ever conducted among treatment-experienced adult
facility in Mechelen, Belgium, with posters six feet long women with HIV. The GRACE (Gender, Race and Clinical
and three feet wide. The posters illustrated the interplay of Experience) study is comparing gender differences in the
functions and deliverables, and were a constant reminder efficacy, safety and tolerability of PREZISTA™ administered
of deadlines and commitments.” with other antiretroviral agents over a 48-week treatment
Another original team member, Marie-Pierre de Bethune, period. The study, which is being conducted at sites
Vice President of Clinical Virology, says: “Our motto was ‘The throughout the U.S., Mexico and Canada, also explores racial
patients are waiting.’ It drove us to work in a way that Paul differences in treatment outcomes.
called ‘faster than possible,’ without compromising on quality, Says McHugh: “Although women represent nearly 50
science or ethics. We made many personal sacrifices to meet a percent of all infections worldwide, they are vastly under-
highly accelerated timeline. For instance, during high-output represented in HIV clinical trials—even though research to
months, we restricted vacation times. And when it came time date not only suggests that women may tolerate HIV medica-
to work on the application for health authorities, the core team tions in different ways than men but also suggests that certain
went off-site to a remote location in northeast Belgium for an complications of the disease may be gender-specific.
entire week, working from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. each day.” We’ve worked very closely with the U.S. HIV community in
18 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTdeveloping this trial. The GRACE study and our collabora- providing access to medicines,” says McHugh. “At Tibotec and
tion with the International Partnership for Microbicides on Virco, we believe that people who need our products should
TMC120 refl ect our deep commitment to address HIV have ready access to them. Finding creative ways to ensure this
treatment and prevention options for women and girls.” access is a core part of our business.”
BETTER ACCESS FOR DEVELOPING NATIONS Upon receiving MORE EPIDEMICS IN THEIR SIGHTS The research and
the earliest approval of PREZISTA™, the company launched development teams at Tibotec and Virco have even more
the Tibotec Global Access program. Under this initiative, than HIV within their sights.
and because of the unique situation created by an infectious TMC207, the fi rst novel anti-TB compound in 40 years,
disease that is now a global pandemic, Tibotec will make its was discovered at the Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical
antiretrovirals available at reduced prices on a sustainable Research & Development, LLC laboratories in Beerse, Belgium,
basis to people in need in more than 100 countries. The and is now being developed at Tibotec. Tibotec also recently
program includes early fi ling registration of PREZISTA™ in obtained co-development and marketing rights in selected
41 countries, which were selected on the basis of several territories from Vertex Pharmaceuticals to VX-950,
factors, including their incidence and prevalence of HIV/AIDS, a promising oral inhibitor of hepatitis C virus (HCV) protease.
the maturity of their HIV treatment programs and the pres- The drug, now called Telaprevir, is in early development.
ence of international HIV programs. Dossiers have already In addition, Tibotec has internal preclinical HCV drug
been submitted in 12 of these 41 countries, including those discovery programs and is advancing an HCV protease inhib-
with a high HIV burden such as Brazil, China, India, South itor into clinical studies in collaboration with Medivir AB.
Africa, Thailand and Ukraine. For many of the least developed “In years to come,” says Werner Verbiest, General Manager,
countries in the world—especially sub-Saharan African Virco BVBA, “our virology franchise will continue to explore
nations—the company is actively pursuing agreements for the use of biomarkers for diagnostic and drug discovery
licensing with generic manufacturers. purposes, seeking increasingly more personalized and eff ective
“We recognize the unparalleled challenges posed by the treatments. But no matter what we do, we’ll keep one thing at
AIDS epidemic and our responsibility to collaborate in the the forefront of our work:
international response to this pandemic, particularly by “Somewhere, patients are waiting.”
Employee Volunteers
village. Unfortunately, much of this water is
Upgrade Ugandan contaminated by microorganisms, even cholera.”
The Tibotec and Virco employee initiative is a
Village’s Water
support to a larger volunteer project that provides
support services to Mulanda, including home-based
care and counseling for HIV/AIDS patients. At the
Tibotec and Virco offi ces in Mechelen, Belgium, and
Yardley, Pa., the clean-water project has taken on a life
of its own. Employees have initiated fundraising efforts
“All our research leads back to Africa in the early 1980s,” that have included car washes; a photographic contest
says Jens Van Roey, M.D., Director of Global Clinical with calendar production; sponsored triathlons and
Development at Tibotec. “At that time, Paul Stoffels and other athletic events; and sales of such items as water
I were working side by side as clinical caregivers and buckets, T-shirts and items contributed by individual
medical researchers in Zaire [now Congo], one of the employees, including homegrown fruits and vegetables,
poorest countries in sub-Saharan Africa. We began to apple juice and homemade Belgian waffl es.
notice signs of nothing less than a plague-to-come— “I cannot overemphasize that our volunteerism isn’t
a vast, yet-to-be-named microbial scourge, of which one-sided charity, but a valuable exchange,”
Central Africa was undoubtedly an evolving epicenter.” Van Roey says. “It’s a two-way street—a constant
In the ensuing years, countries such as Uganda dialogue with people who have much to teach us about
have suffered terrible losses from HIV/AIDS, says how to live in dignity and solidarity, with a broader
Van Roey: “More than 1 million adult Ugandans have Jens Van Roey, M.D., and his Tibotec and Virco sense of family, amid the unrelenting ravages of disease.
colleagues in Mechelen, Belgium, are helping
been lost to the epidemic. They’ve left behind nearly Employees are also encouraged to visit Mulanda, and a
to provide a Ugandan village with a fresh water
2 million orphans. The disease invades every aspect fi rst employee visited the village last fall.
supply so that children need not walk hours
of life—work, home and community.” each day to collect water. “Once our employee volunteers see with their
Van Roey serves as liaison for a new employee- own eyes what it’s like to live with HIV in Africa,
initiated project, begun in 2005, to provide support to the village of Mulanda, near their professional dedication instinctively redoubles. And they especially become aware
Uganda’s eastern border with Kenya. In 2006, the project focused its efforts on providing of how critical it is, in my opinion, to become as involved as possible at the earliest
a sustainable supply of fresh, clear water to the village: “We aim to reduce morbidity and stages of the HIV/AIDS process. It helps to understand that the HIV pandemic is
mortality arising from poor-quality water. Many Mulandan children walk for hours every more of a socioeconomic than a medical problem and that more is needed than just
day to carry water from distant sources to their sick parents and other adults back in the drugs alone.”
HUMANS VS. MICROBES 19OUR PASSION TRANSFORMS:
Restoring the Joys of Life
W
hen my patient Christopher acted like the life of the party, he was
just doing his job,” says Markus Michel, M.D., Head Physician of
the Orthopaedic Center Munsingen, a Swiss facility world-renowned
for preventing and correcting disorders of the body’s support structures,
including the skeleton, joints, muscles, ligaments and cartilage.
“For years, Christopher was one UNMET PATIENT NEEDS Alfonsi—
of Switzerland’s most successful, who spent his initial years at DePuy
in-demand DJs—a high-energy as a bioengineer—goes on to explain
professional who was expected to that Christopher is a prime exam-
party late for nights on end,” recalls ple of today’s patient. “This is a
Dr. Michel. “But his life came to a younger, information-empowered
grinding halt when severe hip prob- patient, engaging with surgeons in a
lems caused him to feel unrelenting, discussion of treatment options.”
disabling pain. A year ago, when he Adds Alfonsi: “This evolving
was 36, Christopher presented to demographic profile presents a new
me. His first words were, ‘My job challenge. Orthopaedic surgeons
meant everything—now my whole tell us that patients like Christopher
life is over.’ He told me his work are looking for state-of-the-art sur-
was no longer fun, he couldn’t play gical interventions offering optimal
sports anymore, and he had even function and faster recovery—
given up driving. He said all his allowing patients to preserve their
professional and personal relation- active lifestyles.”
ships were in jeopardy.” Worst of
all, Christopher couldn’t remember WITHOUT GEOGRAPHIC BOUNDARIES
what a pain-free past had ever “At DePuy, we utilize multinational
felt like—and he couldn’t begin to and multidisciplinary teams to
imagine a pain-free future. develop the best solutions for
It turned out that Christopher the changing needs of today’s
needed an operation usually hip patients,” explains Professor
associated with someone twice his Graham Isaac, Senior Engineering
Markus Michel, M.D., is head physician at Switzerland’s
age—he needed a hip replacement. Fellow for Hips. “We believe
world-renowned Orthopaedic Center Munsingen.
that our international approach
NOT FOR SENIORS ONLY “Hip replacement surgery isn’t just to research and development differentiates DePuy in the
for seniors anymore,” explains Stefano Alfonsi, Worldwide orthopaedic industry. We involve surgeons, bioengineers,
Vice President of Hip Marketing for DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc., manufacturers and marketers’ expertise in a true collaborative
a leader in developing state-of-the art technologies for joint effort—with people who have the passion to go the extra mile.”
reconstruction. “In fact, the orthopaedic patient population Continues Isaac, “Teams of global surgeons provide
is getting younger. Patients are unwilling to accept long-term insight on unmet patient needs and the surgical procedure.
pain and want to maintain their quality of life. Additionally, Bioengineers draw on their expertise to find technical
treatment options for younger patients are expanding.” solutions to clinical challenges. The product management
20 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTBACK IN THE SADDLE At age 36, Christopher—a Swiss DJ—developed severe hip problems that brought
his life to a pain-wracked halt. But after receiving a DEPUY PROXIMA™ Hip implant, he can bike with the best.
team responsibly introduces these technologies to the market- not require a surgeon to cut muscles or tendons,
place, with a focus on professional education.” minimizing soft-tissue damage.
Alfonsi elaborates on the collaborative product develop- · The DEPUY ASR™ XL metal-on-metal bearings are useful
ment approach. “If we were automotive engineers who just for younger people with good cortical bone tissue.
designed a system improvement, we could climb into the car They are high-performance bearings, with a larger
and go for a test drive. But our team is not licensed to take the diameter that facilitates lower wear and high joint stability
patient out for a test drive. Only a surgeon can do that—so we compared with traditional bearings. The higher stability
have to rely heavily on professional feedback about our new gives patients a greater level of confidence as they
invention’s efficacy. That’s exactly why DePuy regularly con- return to daily activities. This new technology was
venes panels of top surgical opinion leaders around the world.” introduced in Europe in 2005 and in 2006 in the U.S.
In the past two years, DePuy introduced major innovations
that preserve bone during hip replacement surgery: DJ GETS HIS GROOVE BACK Christopher needed a highly
· The DEPUY PROXIMA™ Hip, an implant device with a short stable and durable joint. For him, Dr. Michel chose the DEPUY
anatomical stem and POROCOAT® Porous Coating, is PROXIMA™ Hip in combination with the DEPUY ASR™ XL
specifically designed to preserve femoral bone and soft metal-on-metal bearing.
tissue. This advance in hip replacement was introduced Only three weeks after his operation, Christopher the DJ
in Europe in 2006. An Investigational Device Exemption was “already back running the show,” reports Dr. Michel.
study begins in the U.S. in early 2007. “He was booking parties again, making music, driving his car,
· The DEPUY PROXIMA™ Hip finds a perfect synergy with keeping fit, even playing sports.”
another DePuy innovation, the DEPUY MICROHIP™ Says Alfonsi: “Year in and year out, our highest aspiration is
surgical procedure. Developed by surgeons in Switzerland, to help surgeons like Dr. Michel take away their patients’ pain
this is a minimally invasive surgical technique that does and restore their joy of life itself.”
RESTORING THE JOYS OF LIFE 21OUR PASSION TRANSFORMS:
The First Moments of Life
I
t was as quiet as the moment of silence before a baby’s first breath. The grand
boardroom in the Chinese Ministry of Health echoed with Joy Marini’s
thoughts as she waited for this landmark meeting with Ministry officials.
“What these two organizations are hoping to accomplish is as asphyxia (the inability to breathe at birth). With 13 million
difficult as climbing the Great Wall,” thought Marini, MS, PA-C, babies born every year, the challenge seemed almost
Director of Johnson & Johnson Pediatric Institute, LLC (JJPI), impossible. Each year in China, nearly 125,000 newborns may
as she looked up at the giant mural of that man-made wonder. lose the fight for life’s first breath. Others, deprived of oxygen
It was mid-2002, and China’s Ministry of Health was seeking a for longer than 90 seconds, may suffer disabilities such as
partner to address an overwhelming challenge that affected the permanent brain damage.
lives and hearts of millions of families in China. Worldwide, neonatal asphyxia strikes one out of every 10
The Ministry wanted JJPI’s collaboration in helping to babies born—but where it happens can make all the difference.
solve the leading cause of infant mortality in China: neonatal While most babies are treated quickly and have good outcomes,
INTERNATIONAL PARTNERS At the Chinese Ministry of Health in Beijing, May Li (far left) and Joy Marini (second
from left) of Johnson & Johnson Pediatric Institute, LLC meet with Chinese Ministry of Health representatives
Ms. Cao Bin (second from right), Director, Child Division, and Madame Zhang Deying, Deputy Director, Maternal and
Child Division, to discuss China’s Neonatal Resuscitation Program.
22 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTfew Chinese nurses, doctors or midwives outside the urban
hospitals have received practical, hands-on training to
intervene for neonatal asphyxia—until now.
The Ministry was determined to save future generations of
its children from early deaths or heartbreaking disabilities, and
in JJPI—a Johnson & Johnson company dedicated to saving
the lives of mothers and babies the world over—they found an
equally determined partner.
THE BREATH OF LIFE Almost two years later, the Chinese
Ministry of Health’s Division of Child Health launched its
Neonatal Resuscitation Program (NRP). The program teaches
Chinese health care workers how to rescue a newborn baby
struggling for a first full breath of life. It brings together a
wide range of health professionals who, under a range of
local circumstances, deliver thousands of babies each year
in China’s townships, counties, cities and provinces.
They include obstetricians, pediatricians, neonatologists,
anesthesiologists, nurses and midwives.
“NOT TODAY”
With JJPI’s help, the Ministry reached across the Pacific
Ocean to forge a partnership with the American Academy Wang Lixin is a nurse in Beijing. Every day, she helps mothers
of Pediatrics, which Marini says has “the gold standard” for bring their babies into the world. Too often, through the years,
training in neonatal asphyxia. “It’s a wonderful international Wang Lixin has seen tragedy unfold while a baby boy or girl fusses
collaboration. These two groups are learning so much from and struggles, trying to take a first breath, finally turning blue from
each other.” lack of oxygen.
This morning, Wang Lixin’s friend Liu Jia, who is also a nurse,
LIKE A DROP OF INK IN WATER Since its inception in July lies upon the birthing table. Over the past year, Wang Lixin
2004, the Ministry of Health’s NRP has trained more than has taught many nurses how to defeat death—and one of them is
18,000 native health care professionals to be trainers. In so holding her hand.
doing, it has saved the lives of countless babies who would “Not today,” resolves Wang Lixin silently. “Today the breath
otherwise have died. of life will prevail.” And when it came time for Wang Lixin’s friend
In its first two years, the program has easily surpassed the Liu Jia to give birth, Liu put her life—and her child’s life—in the
goal originally set for the five-year mark. NRP-trained hands of her NRP-trained peer.
professionals now work in more than 600 Chinese cities, Wang Lixin, an NRP National Trainer, personally taught more
thanks largely to a cadre of inspired—and inspiring—nurses than 150 other Chinese nurses in 2006.
who quickly fanned out across the nation, voluntarily In a nation where the
training one another in concentric succession. official one-child-per-family
“When a drop of calligrapher’s ink falls into a bowl of clear birthing policy heightens
water, it spreads everywhere at once,” says May Li, a Shanghai- every expectant parent’s
based representative of JJPI who served as its day-to-day dreams and anxieties, Wang
contact with the Ministry. “The NRP model has been working Lixin, on a volunteer basis:
the same way. When a hard-working nurse sees baby after baby · Traveled deep into Eastern
live instead of dying immediately, she almost cannot help China’s teeming cities
but get further involved in the program. She finds herself to give hospital nurses
volunteering to go anywhere, to teach anyone. She feels that their first-ever glimpse of
her professional life has greater meaning.” neonatal rescue by trained
Liu Jia with her son, Yang Yang
Marini says it’s no secret why China’s NRP has spread health professionals.
farther, and faster, than many such initiatives she has · Traveled to more remote outposts to show nurses how to work
seen elsewhere in her Asian travels: “Encouragement and with portable, infant-sized oxygen tents.
motivation are this incredible program’s core values and · Helped guide the growth of NRP as an NRP Task Force member.
the keys to its success.” · Found time and energy to fulfill her responsibilities in another
“Joy and I have become true soul mates through this volunteer capacity, as president of the Division of Midwives-
work, and we’ve learned so much from each other,” says Li. Chinese Nursing Association.
“We’ve been each other’s cultural guides in forging a powerful Like Wang Lixin, Liu Jia is proud of her homeland’s strong
cross-Pacific collaboration.” new commitment to protect newborn infants from preventable
“I wake up in the morning and I can’t believe I’ve been death and illness: "Every smile, every laugh, even every cry is
so lucky to work on an initiative like the NRP that will save so precious. Yang Yang is the future of our family; we're so thankful for
many babies in such a beautiful country,” says Marini. the trained team that knew exactly what to do when he was born
“May and I have the best jobs in the world.” and did not breathe.”
THE FIRST MOMENTS OF LIFE 232006 YEAR IN REVIEW:
Consumer Health Care
• PCH Acquisition Makes Johnson & Johnson
World’s Premier Consumer Health Care Company
• Groupe Vendome Acquisition Expands Global Skin Care Presence
• More Than 400 New Products Fuel Worldwide Growth
Oral Care Business
SEIZING A RARE OPPORTUNITY:
PFIZER CONSUMER HEALTHCARE (PCH) ACQUISITION Broadens Beyond
Flosses, Brushes and
The acquisition of Pfizer Consumer Healthcare assets marks an important milestone in our Whitening Products
history as the world’s most comprehensive and broadly based health care products company.
Consistent with our longstanding strategy of leadership within attractive health care markets,
the acquisition extends our leadership from 13 to 22 consumer health care categories in the U.S.
It also strengthens our global reach and brings together a combination of consumer businesses
that promise sustained growth on a global basis:
With ex-U.S. rights to NICORETTE®, VISINE® nonprescription eye-care products
world leader in smoking cessation, complement our Vision Care franchise.
we gain significant entry into
this high-potential segment. LUBRIDERM® moisturizing products
expand our adult Skin Care franchise. The combination of the Pfizer
LISTERINE® Antiseptic, the world’s No. 1
and Johnson & Johnson oral
mouthwash, transforms our oral care NEOSPORIN® complements our
care businesses created a
business into a $1 billion-plus franchise wound-care business.
and expands our presence in 60 markets. $1 billion-plus franchise, the
BENADRYL® and SUDAFED® expand our fourth-largest oral care business
OTC upper-respiratory business. in the world. LISTERINE® is the
No. 1 mouthwash brand in the
Nutritionals Business Continues to Turn Out Recipes for Success world, and Johnson & Johnson
holds the No. 3 position in
As a way of saying thank you to loyal consumers who have toothbrushes globally with such
made SPLENDA® (sucralose) America’s favorite sweetener, new products as the REACH®
McNeil Nutritionals, LLC introduced an official cookbook, Clean & Whiten Toothbrush and
The SPLENDA® World of Sweetness. Created in response REACH® InBetween™ Toothbrush;
to enormous consumer demand, The SPLENDA® World of the No. 2 position in dental
Sweetness provides families with the tools to create reduced- floss, including the new REACH®
sugar and lower-calorie versions of favorite foods and CLEANPASTE™ Floss; and the
beverages without compromising the sweet taste. No. 2 position in whitening
In 2006, McNeil Nutritionals, LLC also introduced products, with the introduction of
SPLENDA® Brand Flavor Blends for coffee, SPLENDA® Brand QUICK PACK™ Pouches for REMBRANDT® Whitening Strips
Unsweetened Powdered Drink Mixes and VIACTIV® Calcium Soft Chews for Teens. Premium With Mint flavor.
ALSO
NEW
IN
2006:
Extra Strength TYLENOL® BAND-AID® Brand COMPEED® CORTAID® LE PETIT MARSEILLAIS® STAYFREE® Dry Max CAREFREE® Large
(acetaminophen) Adhesive Bandages Cold Sore Patch Poison Ivy Care Kit shower gels, soaps Ultra Thin and Maxi (Europe and
GoTabs™ Antibiotic bandage (Europe) treatment kit and bath and hair care products North America)
(U.S.) products
24 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTJOHNSON’S® SOOTHING
NATURALS™ Line Expands Consumer Segment Sales
as Company Underscores
Sales by Major Franchise
Commitment to Moms
2006 Sales: $9,774 million Growth Rate: 7.5%
For more than 100 years, JOHNSON’S® Baby (in millions of dollars)
brand has been an indispensable partner to Baby & Kids Care
$1,740 Women’s Health
Mom. In 2006, product lines and fragrances
$1,666
were extended in traditional brands, while +11.5%
+6.3%
online efforts underscored the commitment
to a new generation of moms:
JOHNSON’S® SOOTHING NATURALS™ ,
a breakthrough collection of baby
skin care products featuring natural
ingredients, was expanded to the Europe/ Other
$993
Africa/Middle East and Asia/Pacific
regions. These products, combining the +11.8%
gentleness of JOHNSON’S® with the
healing power of nature, were first made
Skin Care
available in the U.S. at the end of 2005.
$2,633
JOHNSON’S® Baby Lotion fragrance was
+9.7%
extended to Baby Wash and Cream.
BabyCenter® (www.babycenter.com)
was redesigned, including technology
OTC
advancements and an enhanced commerce Pharmaceuticals
& Nutritionals
platform, and was re-established as a $2,742
preeminent online destination for moms. +2.4%
Science Leads bath and hair care products; AVEENO® skin care products.
Laboratories Vendome, Other scientific
Way for Growth
a dermatological-solutions innovations were evident in
in Skin Care brand with body cleansers and these new products in 2006:
moisturizers; and Prim’Age, · CLEAN & CLEAR®
a baby toiletries brand. Oxygenating Skincare Line
Our skin care business Our emphasis on bringing · CLEAN & CLEAR®
is growing due to strong superior science to skin care ADVANTAGE® Invisible
consumer receptivity to was evident in a number of Acne Patch
scientific innovations, strong new product introductions · AMBI® EVEN & CLEAR™,
professional support and throughout our skin care a new line of advanced skin
increased penetration in businesses in 2006, including care products to help women
international markets. a new patented ingredient of African, Latin and South line of products, containing
Geographic expansion that provides the strongest Asian heritage achieve clear, the naturally calming ACTIVE
of our skin care businesses protection available in the U.S. even-toned skin NATURALS™, Feverfew
was further enhanced in against the sun’s harmful UVA · NEUTROGENA® MINERAL · Nourishing Renewal Lotion
2006 with the acquisition of rays, which cause skin cancer SHEERS™ pure and gentle and Nourishing Care
Groupe Vendome, a French and photoaging (see page 8): makeup, formulated 24 Hour Moisturizing Wash,
company known for adult and branded HELIOPLEX™ with minerals innovations that prompted
baby skin care brands such technology in NEUTROGENA® · AVEENO® ULTRA-CALMING a relaunch of JOHNSON’S®
as LE PETIT MARSEILLAIS®, a skin care products and ACTIVE SHAVE GEL, new to the SOFTLOTION™ and
line of shower gels, soaps and PHOTOBARRIER COMPLEX™ in AVEENO® ULTRA-CALMING SOFTWASH™ for adults.
CAREFREE® Healthy Fresh K-Y® Brand K-Y® Brand K-Y® Brand SPLENDA® SPLENDA® VIACTIV® Calcium
liner and wash SENSUAL MIST™ TOUCH MASSAGE™ 2-in-1 TOUCH MASSAGE™ Brand Flavor Blends Brand QUICK PACK™ Soft Chews for Teens
(Asia Pacific) warming and non-warming WARMING™ personal massage Lotion line extensions for coffee Pouches for Unsweetened
mistable lubricant plus personal lubricant Powdered Drink Mixes
YEAR IN REVIEW 252006 YEAR IN REVIEW:
Pharmaceuticals
• Four New Prescription Medicines Approved
• New Growth Platform in Virology Launched
• Important New Indications for Leading Rxs
• In-licensing Adds Four New Products to Pipeline
Near-Term
Pharmaceutical and Diagnostic Strengths
Pipeline
Combine in New Virology Franchise
In 2005, we communicated to the
On June 23, 2006, when the FDA granted Further, conditional marketing authorization investment community plans to file or
accelerated approval of PREZISTA™ was received from the European Commission secure approval of between 10 and 13
(darunavir), also known as TMC114, for in February 2007. new molecular entities (NMEs) by the
the treatment of HIV/AIDS in The near-term pipeline in end of 2007. Four NMEs—PREZISTA™,
antiretroviral (ARV) experienced virology holds two other late-stage IONSYS™, JURNISTA™ (EU) and
adults, our pharmaceuticals HIV medicines: INVEGA™—were approved in 2006,
business launched more than its · TMC125, in Phase III, is the first and a fifth, Doripenem, was filed.
first HIV treatment: It launched an investigational NNRTI to show Our performance is on track
entire new growth engine in virology— significant activity in patients with prior with seven additional filings expected by
a business devoted to fighting some of NNRTI failure. the end of 2007:
the world’s most deadly diseases. · TMC278, in Phase IIb dose-finding studies, PROJECTED FILINGS, 2006–2009
as of January 23, 2007
The launch of this important new is one of the most potent NNRTIs ever
CNS Paliperidone
virology franchise began just four years earlier developed and as such has the potential to
Palmitate
with the acquisition of a promising young become a backbone in a range of fixed-dose
Carisbamate*
Belgian company, Tibotec-Virco (see page 16). combinations.
Today, Tibotec Pharmaceuticals Ltd., Tibotec The virology franchise also has PAIN Tapentadol (U.S.)*
Therapeutics Division of Ortho Biotech early-stage development efforts and I.M.I.D. CNTO 1275
Products, LP and Virco BVBA are the backbone complementary in-licensing focused
CNTO 148
of a highly innovative virology business on hepatitis C (HCV), tuberculosis (TB)
ONCOLOGY ZARNESTRA®
based on evolving science and combining and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV).
pharmaceutical and diagnostic approaches. The first clinical data on TMC207 in DACOGEN™ (EU)*
Thanks to strong internal development TB patients was presented in 2006. YONDELIS® (U.S.)*
capabilities and in-licensing of important TMC207 is one of the first potential
VIROLOGY TMC 125
early-stage products, the virology franchise new TB drugs in more than 40 years,
Telaprevir (EU)*
has been launched with a strong pipeline and and the emerging profile appears very
promising growth for years to come. attractive. In 2006 a licensing agreement ANTIBACTERIALS Doripenem*
PREZISTA™ is a potent protease inhibitor with Vertex Pharmaceuticals for Ceftobiprole*
that has demonstrated significant activity VX-950, now called Telaprevir, added a
CARDIOVASCULAR Rivaroxaban (U.S.)*
against both wild-type and drug-resistant promising novel protease inhibitor for
UROLOGY Dapoxetine
strains of HIV. Experts in the field agree that the treatment of HCV to the virology
(selected EU)*
this drug offers new hope for treatment- pipeline. The virology franchise will
HEMATOLOGY ICA 17043*
experienced patients. PREZISTA™ is the first work in close partnership with Vertex
ARV in a decade to receive FDA accelerated on the development of this important Est. filing: 2007 Est. filing: 2009
approval based on Phase IIb data. Phase III molecule and will have commercial rights Est. filing: 2008 Filed
studies in early experienced and treatment- outside the U.S. Telaprevir is currently * Carisbamate licensed from SK-Bio Pharmaceuticals.
naive patients are ongoing and will form part in Phase IIb for treatment of adults with Doripenem licensed from Shionogi & Co. Tapentadol licensed
from Grunenthal GmbH. YONDELIS® licensed from
of a traditional filing within the next year. chronic HCV. Hepatitis C is a blood- PharmaMar. Ceftobiprole licensed from Basilea Pharmaceutica.
Rivaroxaban licensed from Bayer Healthcare. ICA 17043
During 2006, approvals also were granted borne liver disease caused by infection licensed from Icagen. Dacogen licensed from MGI Pharma.
in Canada, Russia, Argentina and Switzerland. with the hepatitis C virus. Telaprevir licensed from Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc.
Dapoxetine licensed from PPD-GenuPro.
26 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTOrtho-McNeil, Inc.
Pharmaceutical Segment Sales
Signs Deal for
Sales by Major Product
Worldwide Rights to
2006 Sales: $23,267 million Growth Rate: 4.2%
(in millions of dollars) Two Type 2 Diabetes
RISPERDAL®/
RISPERDAL® CONSTA®
$4,183 Compounds
+17.8%
Other
$5,784
A licensing agreement
(1.1%)
between Ortho-McNeil, Inc.
PROCRIT®/ and Metabolex, Inc.
EPREX®
$3,180 yielded two investigational
(4.3%) compounds currently in
clinical development for
the treatment of type 2
diabetes. Ortho-McNeil
secured exclusive world-
Hormonal
Contraceptives wide development and
$1,016 commercialization rights
REMICADE® (10.6%) from Metabolex for these two
$3,013
compounds, which represent
+18.9% ACIPHEX®/
PARIET® a novel class of insulin
$1,239 sensitizers.
DURAGESIC®/ +6.0% In all, in-licensing added
TOPAMAX® Fentanyl
$2,027 LEVAQUIN®/ Transdermal four products to the Rx
FLOXIN® $1,295
+20.7% $1,530 pipeline. (For more details,
(18.3%)
+2.5% see pages 26 and 28.)
New Atypical
in satisfying unmet needs RISPERDAL® CONSTA™ Long- adolescents aged 5 to 16 years.
in the treatment of Acting Injection) continues Also in 2006, two
Anti-Psychotic
schizophrenia. The once- to perform strongly with additional dosage strengths
Reinforces daily oral medication is the most-prescribed and (3 mg and 4 mg) of
specifically designed to deliver fastest-growing treatment RISPERDAL® M-TAB®, the fast-
Leadership in
paliperidone—the active in schizophrenia. In 2006, dissolving form of RISPERDAL®
Psychiatry metabolite of risperidone— RISPERDAL® became the (risperidone), were made
through the innovative OROS® first and only medication available by prescription.
extended-release technology, approved by the FDA for This convenient delivery form
Our long-standing leadership demonstrating powerful the treatment of irritability makes taking medication
position in diseases of the efficacy and a clinically proven associated with autistic easy for patients because it
central nervous system (CNS) safety and tolerability profile. disorder—including dissolves in seconds when
and, specifically, psychiatry A long-acting formulation, symptoms of aggression, placed on the tongue. This is
was further strengthened containing paliperidone deliberate self-injury, temper an alternative for patients who
in 2006 by the FDA palmitate, is tantrums and quickly changing have difficulty or do not like
approval of INVEGA™ not far behind. moods—in children and swallowing pills.
(paliperidone) Johnson & Johnson
RNAi Pioneer Craig Mello Named Inaugural Winner
Extended-Release Pharmaceutical
of Dr. Paul Janssen Award for Biomedical Research
Tablets, a new Research and
atypical antipsychotic Development, LLC
A new award established by Johnson & Johnson to honor Dr. Paul Janssen,
for the treatment of expects to file a new
one of the 20th century’s most innovative and inspiring pharmaceutical
schizophrenia, and by drug application for
researchers and founder of Janssen Pharmaceutica, was presented to its
the very important approval paliperidone palmitate, which
inaugural recipient, Craig C. Mello, Ph.D., for his role in the discovery of RNA
for RISPERDAL® (risperidone), is administered by injection interference (RNAi) and the elucidation of its biological functions. Dr. Mello
for the treatment of irritability once every four weeks, by the is a professor of molecular medicine at the University of Massachusetts
associated with autistic end of 2007. Medical School in Worcester, Mass., and an investigator at the Howard
disorder. Meanwhile, the Hughes Medical Institute. Shortly thereafter, Dr. Mello and his colleague
INVEGA™ represents RISPERDAL® (risperidone) Andrew A. Fire of Stanford University were awarded the Nobel Prize
an important step forward franchise (RISPERDAL® and in Physiology or Medicine for 2006 for the same discovery.
YEAR IN REVIEW 27REMICADE®
Two New Pain Medicines
Granted Four Significant Using Novel Delivery Systems Approved
Indications in U.S.
Two new pain medications the skin. Each dose is of pain relief from a single
approved in 2006 use delivered over a 10-minute dose. JURNISTA® has launched
novel drug delivery period. IONSYS™ is the in Germany, Denmark,
systems developed by ALZA first and only product to Slovenia and Slovakia; is
Corporation to manage incorporate the proprietary scheduled to launch in other
moderate to severe pain. E-TRANS® Iontophoretic European countries in 2007;
IONSYS™ (fentanyl Transdermal Drug-Delivery and will be registered and
iontophoretic transdermal System developed by ALZA marketed by other Janssen-
REMICADE® (infliximab), the Centocor,
system), the first needle-free, Corporation. Iontophoresis Cilag companies throughout
Inc. biologic for immune mediated
patient-activated analgesic is a process in which a low- the world.
inflammatory disorders, garnered four
intensity electric field, In addition to these
significant new U.S. indications in 2006.
generally imperceptible prescription pain medications
REMICADE® is one of the world’s most
to the patient, is used to approved in 2006, PriCara, a
versatile biologics, with a total of nine
rapidly transport fentanyl unit of Ortho-McNeil, Inc.,
approved indications (i.e., unique patient
across the skin and into and Biovail Corporation
populations) ranging from rheumatoid
the circulatory system. launched ULTRAM® ER
arthritis to plaque psoriasis, with 24
system, was approved in 2006 (Tramadol HCI) Extended-
approved efficacy claims.
in both the United States and Release Tablets in the
In 2006, REMICADE® was approved
Europe and is expected to U.S., the first extended-
in the U.S. for pediatric Crohn’s disease;
launch in the second half of release Tramadol product
for the inhibition of progression of
2007. IONSYS™ is indicated for in that market.
structural damage and improved
the short-term management Looking ahead at the pain
physical function in psoriatic arthritis;
of acute post-operative pain JURNISTA® Prolonged- pipeline, Johnson & Johnson
for treatment of chronic severe plaque
in adult patients requiring Release Tablets (hydro- Pharmaceutical Research
psoriasis in adults; and expanded for
opioid analgesia during morphone HCl), a new and Development, LLC
maintaining long-term clinical remission
hospitalization. IONSYS™ is prescription treatment for hopes to file in 2007 a new
and mucosal healing in patients with
a compact, self-contained severe pain, was developed drug application in the U.S.
moderate to severely active
system that delivers on- by ALZA Corporation and for Tapentadol, a centrally
ulcerative colitis. REMICADE® is the
demand pain medication as utilizes the OROS® Push- acting analgesic it is co-
global market leader in anti-TNF therapy.
needed by the patient. The Pull™ delivery system. This developing with Grunenthal.
Also in 2006, REMICADE® received
patient double-clicks on a delivery technology releases Plans for Tapentadol call
regulatory approvals for four major
dosing button and the system the opioid hydromorphone at for both immediate-release
indications in 25 European countries
delivers a preprogrammed a consistent rate, providing and extended-release
and five major new indications in
dose of fentanyl through patients with up to 24 hours formulations.
Canada, as well as numerous approvals
in the rest of the world.
Licensing Deals Enhance Oncology Growth Engine
Centocor also has two exciting
near-term products. CNTO 148 is a
next-generation anti-TNF antibody that
Two 2006 licensing deals further Recently, Ortho Biotech Products, LP Also in 2006, a supplemental
is likely to emerge as a best-in-class
enhanced the pharmaceuticals growth entered into a new agreement with new drug application for DOXIL®—
product. It is initially being studied for
engine in oncology from its foundation Millennium to jointly promote VELCADE® as combination therapy with
rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis
of PROCRIT®/EPREX® (epoetin alfa) to U.S.-based physicians who treat VELCADE® to treat patients with
and ankylosing spondylitis, and is
and DOXIL® (doxorubicin HCl liposome mantle cell lymphoma or multiple multiple myeloma whose disease has
also being explored in a wide range of
injection). These deals reinforce the myeloma patients who have received progressed or relapsed after prior
other therapeutic areas. A fully human
commitment to deliver innovative and at least one prior therapy. therapy—was submitted for review to
antibody, it is being developed as both
effective treatments for cancer patients In addition, 2006 saw Janssen-Cilag the FDA, and Janssen Pharmaceutical
a subcutaneously and intravenously
with unmet medical needs and those license from MGI PHARMA global K.K. gained approval for VELCADE®
administered product with long
who care for them. development and commercialization in Japan.
dosing intervals—unique in this class.
Since 2003, the international rights outside North America to The near-term pipeline in
Centocor also is developing a novel
Janssen-Cilag businesses have marketed DACOGEN™ (decitabine) for Injection— oncology includes two other promising
immunomodulator, CNTO 1275,
a leading treatment for multiple a treatment for myelodysplastic drugs: YONDELIS® (trabectedin),
a first-in-class anti-IL-12/23. CNTO 1275
myeloma, VELCADE® (bortezomib), syndromes (MDS), a disease of the bone co-developed with PharmaMar,
is in Phase III trials for psoriasis,
a novel protease inhibitor for which marrow—which is currently in Phase III a subsidiary of the Zeltia Group;
where it has already demonstrated
new uses are being co-developed with trials in Europe. MGI PHARMA received and ZARNESTRA® (tipifarnib),
strong efficacy.
Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. U.S. approval for DACOGEN™ in May. for acute myeloid leukemia (AML).
28 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORT2006 YEAR IN REVIEW:
Medical Devices & Diagnostics
• 59 New Products Extend Global Leadership in Medical Technology
• Six Major Acquisitions Expand Key Business Portfolios
Cordis Corporation Portfolio Benefits From
TRANSFORMING DIABETES CARE
Acquisitions, Agreements and R&D From Measurement
to Management
In 2006 two strategic acquisitions and three
licensing transactions further strengthened
Cordis’ global leadership position in LifeScan, Inc. is more focused Similarly, the OneTouch®
interventional cardiology and other strategic than ever on moving from Horizon® Blood Glucose
business areas. In all, these transactions simple blood glucose Monitor was specifically
contributed 12 new product introductions measurement to diabetes designed to provide greater
from this franchise last year. management in order to access to testing in developing
The acquisition of Ensure Medical, Inc., deliver improved patient health markets such as India, where
a privately held company in Sunnyvale, Calif., that develops outcomes. It’s doing that by currently only 7 percent of the
devices for post-catheterization closure of the femoral artery, offering patients and providers more than 35 million people
further expands Cordis’ presence in California. In 2006, tools that give better insight with diabetes are monitoring
it launched Accelerated Medical Ventures, a state-of-the- into disease management, such their blood glucose. Patients
art advanced research and development facility in the San as the OneTouch® Ultra®2 in these markets require the
Francisco Bay area. Blood Glucose Monitor, which simple, discrete and affordable
The Johnson & Johnson acquisition of helps patients link the effects of testing offered by the
Conor Medsystems, Inc., completed in February 2007, is food to blood glucose results. OneTouch® Horizon® Monitor.
expected to complement the existing drug-eluting stent LifeScan, Inc. also offers The 2006 acquisition of
business with a unique controlled drug-delivery technology. products that provide greater Animas Corporation, a
The acquisition provides access to blood glucose company specializing in
The Cordis portfolio
a unique drug-delivery monitoring in both developed insulin delivery systems, was
continued to grow in 2006 with
the addition of a dozen new technology to be explored and developing markets. The a key development for the
products, including: across a range of therapeutic new OneTouch® UltraMini™ Johnson & Johnson diabetes
categories, and it Blood Glucose Monitor franchise. LifeScan and Animas
CYPHER® SELECT™ PLUS, the first third- immediately contributes to (also marketed as OneTouch® are working together to provide
generation drug-eluting stent launched
the development of next- UltraEasy™ in some countries) a superior range of integrated
in major global markets (except the U.S.
generation technologies offers just the basics of testing solutions for insulin delivery
and Japan)
aimed at advancing the in a small, affordable, simple- and blood glucose monitoring
CARTO® RMT V8 and Niobe Integrated
standard of care in the to-use monitor to encourage to simplify diabetes control
Electroanatomical Navigation System
treatment of cardiac and appropriate testing and greater for patients using insulin and
PRECISE® Nitinol Stent
vascular disease. glucose control. their health care professionals.
ANGIOGUARD® Emboli Capture On the distribution front,
Guidewire
Cordis signed a distribution
agreement with Brivant
Ltd. for three interventional guidewire products that will be
marketed under an umbrella brand known as REGATTA™. Cordis
also signed an agreement with ClearStream Technologies
Group, PLC for distribution rights to the CRESCENDO™ PTCA
(Percutaneous Transluminal Coronary Angioplasty)
Balloon Dilation Catheter in all countries except the U.S.,
Japan and Canada.
In addition, BioSense Webster, Inc., part of the Cordis
franchise, secured exclusive worldwide rights to distribute
Siemens Medical Solutions’ state-of-the-art cardiac catheters,
ACUSON AcuNav™ ultrasound catheters, to electrophysiologists.
YEAR IN REVIEW 29Ethicon, Inc.
Medical Devices & Diagnostics Segment Sales
Continues to Pioneer
Minimally Invasive Sales by Major Franchise
2006 Sales: $20,283 million Growth Rate: 6.2%
Surgical Advances
(in millions of dollars)
for Women
DEPUY®
$4,105 ETHICON®
$3,213
+6.7%
+3.9%
OTHER
$60
+1.7%
Ethicon, Inc. introduced
two important advances in
2006 that off er minimally
invasive alternatives to ETHICON
ENDO-SURGERY®
common surgeries for CORDIS® $3,376
$4,088
women. GYNECARE®TVT +8.7%
+2.6%
SECUR™(above) is a new
mid-urethral sling to treat
female stress urinary
incontinence that features
a smaller mesh implant
LIFESCAN®
and no skin exit incisions. ORTHO-CLINICAL $2,074
DIAGNOSTICS®
GYNECARE® MORCELLEX™ $1,488 VISION CARE +8.6%
$1,879
Tissue Morcellator +5.7%
facilitates laparoscopic +10.9%
supracervical hysterectomy
(LSH), which preserves the Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc.
cervix. This new surgical
tool is designed to minimize Launches New Surgical Innovations
some of the challenges
physicians can face when In 2006, Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. and MAMMOTOME® MR Bladeless Probes
performing this procedure. introduced many surgical innovations to and Targeting Sets, a breast biopsy system
GYNECARE® MORCELLEX™ round out a portfolio that now off ers new for use with MRI imaging.
can also be used to facilitate technology for nearly every procedure In addition, Advanced Sterilization
laparoscopic myomectomy, being performed by general, bariatric and Products, a division of Ethicon, Inc.,
a procedure in which uterine gynecological surgeons. The new products received FDA clearance for the EVOTECH™
fi broids are removed. include HARMONIC WAVE™ Open Shears Endoscope Cleaner and Reprocessor (ECR),
Ethicon’s 2006 18mm (below), the latest innovation in the fi rst-ever washer/disinfector to eliminate
acquisition of Vascular ultrasonic energy for open surgery; HARMONIC the requirement for manual cleaning of
Control Systems, Inc. ACE™ Open Scissor Codes; CONTOUR® endoscopes.
added further innovations to TRANSTAR™ Curved Cutter Stapler Procedure The high volume of new product
its women’s health portfolio. Set for Stapled Transanal Rectal Resection introductions demonstrates Ethicon Endo-
The primary technology (STARR); ECHELON™60 ENDOPATH® Stapler Surgery’s commitment to transforming
gained is a uterine artery Long; ENDOPATHXCEL™ Bladeless 15mm for patient care through innovative medical
occlusion treatment that bariatric surgery; LIGAMAX™5 Endoscopic devices for both minimally invasive and open
Ethicon is developing as Multiple Clip Applier; ENDOPATH® ETS-Flex 60 surgical procedures.
a less-invasive treatment for Articulating Endoscopic Linear Cutter;
fi broids and fi broid-related
symptoms.
Also in 2006, Ethicon
introduced ULTRAPRO®
Hernia System (UHS),
SURGIFLO™ Hemostatic
Matrix With FlexTip in the
U.S., and ETHICON OMNEX™
Surgical Sealant in Europe.
30 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTDePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. evolving minimally invasive VISTAKON VISTAKON, a division of
techniques in sports medicine. Introduces Johnson & Johnson Vision
Broadens Leadership
· OrthoMedics, a South African Care, Inc., continues to perform
New Advances
Through Acquisitions and distributor, expands the company’s strongly around the globe with
in Vision Care
presence in that region. new products introduced in
Portfolio Development
2006 including 1-DAY ACUVUE®
In addition, DePuy capitalized
MOIST™ Brand Contact Lenses
on learnings from the CHARITE™
and 1-DAY ACUVUE® DEFINE™
Artificial Disc and extended the
Vivid Style Cosmetic Contact
Through strategic acquisitions and spine portfolio with introduction
Lenses in Asian markets.
internally developed innovations, of the DISCOVER™ Cervical Disc
(See story on page 12.)
the DePuy franchise has become (below) in Europe in late 2006.
a comprehensive orthopaedics The first patients were enrolled in
Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc. Receives FDA Approval
business spanning the entire U.S. clinical trials in July.
lifetime continuum of orthopaedic for First Blood-Screening Test for Chagas’ Disease
care—from sports medicine and
early intervention through joint
replacement and spinal fusions. Chagas’ disease, also called to Chagas’ disease and is the
Three strategic acquisitions in 2006 American trypanosomiasis, first such test approved by
will continue to broaden DePuy’s is an infection caused by the the FDA for use in the U.S.
leadership in this important category parasite Trypanosoma cruzi The Centers for Disease
and impact future development of Last year two new innovations (T. cruzi) that can damage Control and Prevention
meaningful innovations for an aging in hip replacement were introduced: heart tissue and cause death. (CDC) estimates that 10 to
population. the DEPUY PROXIMA™ bone- The disease is endemic to 12 million people worldwide
· Hand Innovations, LLC, a privately preserving hip implant in Europe most countries in Central are infected with Chagas’
held manufacturer of widely used for younger and more demanding and South America, as well disease; of those, 50,000 will
fracture fixation products for the patients, and the DEPUY ASR™ XL as Mexico. Transmission die each year. Chagas’ disease
upper extremities, provides leading metal-on-metal “large head” occurs through insect bites, can be treated successfully
technology in plating, the fastest- hip bearings, which launched in blood transfusions and if detected soon after the
growing and most underpenetrated the U.S. and continue to gain usage. organ transplants, and via infection occurs, but there
segment of the trauma market. (See story on page 20.) infected pregnant women is no cure once the disease
· Future Medical Systems, SA, Also in 2006, DePuy Mitek saw to children in utero. A new has entered the chronic
a privately held company that use of the MILAGRO™ Bioreplacable test by Ortho-Clinical stage. The test is being
primarily develops, manufactures Screw rapidly expand one year Diagnostics, Inc., called the implemented in the U.S. due
and markets arthroscopic fluid post-launch, an important indicator ORTHO® T. cruzi ELISA Test to an increased prevalence
management systems, positions that physicians are adopting System, is designed to screen in blood donors and will
DePuy at the forefront of rapidly this technology. blood donors for exposure improve transfusion safety.
Veridex, LLC Introduces Second Novel Diagnostic Platform in Two Years;
Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc. Adds 23 New Assays to Menu
Veridex, LLC recently advisory panel review in claims in 2006 as an aid in VITROS® ECiQ assays include
launched the second of two December 2006. the monitoring of metastatic tests to aid in the diagnosis
novel diagnostic platforms The first platform, breast cancer. CELLSEARCH™ of congestive heart failure,
in two years. GENESEARCH™, the CELLSEARCH™ System, and the new GENESEARCH™ determine whether a patient
the world’s first gene-based identifies and enumerates Breast Lymph Node diagnostic has a previous or ongoing
diagnostic test designed to circulating tumor cells (CTCs) test represent the next infection from hepatitis A
detect the spread of breast directly from whole blood chapter in in-vitro diagnostics. virus (HAV), quantify levels
cancer into the lymph nodes, in breast cancer patients. (See story on page 14.) of an oncology marker and
uses molecular technology Approved in the U.S. in In 2006, Ortho-Clinical aid in assessment of
to diagnose, stage and more January 2004 as a diagnostic Diagnostics, Inc. expanded metabolism. The new VITROS®
accurately characterize tumors tool for identifying and its diagnostics menus with MicroTip Chemistry Products
and can be used during surgery counting CTCs in a blood 23 new FDA-approved include tests to detect the
to guide the procedure. sample to predict progression- assays, including five assays presence of drugs of abuse,
GENESEARCH™ entered the free survival and overall for the VITROS® ECiQ measure homocysteine
European market in mid-2006 survival in patients with Immunodiagnostic System concentration in blood
in compliance with EU in vitro metastatic breast cancer, and 11 new MicroTip™ plasma, measure the extent
medical device regulations. CELLSEARCH™ was granted assays for the VITROS® 5.1 FS of red-blood destruction
It received a favorable FDA expanded FDA-approved Chemistry System. The new and manage diabetes.
YEAR IN REVIEW 312006 YEAR IN REVIEW:
Caring for the Environment
Reducing Our Reducing
In January 2006, we
Environmental began a new set of Carbon Dioxide
five-year sustainability
Impact goals. Our Healthy Planet Emissions While
2010 goals continue to
go beyond what is required
Growing Sales
For more than 15 years, the by any government. We
Johnson & Johnson Family of are still tracking common Johnson & Johnson is taking
Companies has been striving environmental-footprint seriously the challenge
to reduce the environmental indicators like water, of global climate change,
Earning Fifth
impact of our operations and energy and waste, but applying sustained, long-
products. For example, from we are also going to Consecutive term actions to address this
2001 to 2005, total water improve the environmental growing threat—including
Green Power
use, normalized to sales, profile of our products, the adoption of our Climate
decreased by 45 percent. increase employee Leadership Award Friendly Energy Policy in
This corresponds with a 16 environmental literacy 2003. Taking more aggressive
percent absolute reduction of and increase the amount Johnson & Johnson is the only measures, we reduced carbon
water use. In addition, during of paper and packaging we company to earn this award dioxide emissions by
the same period, total waste source from sustainably from the U.S. Environmental 11.5 percent on an absolute
generation, normalized to managed forests. The Protection Agency for five basis from 1990 to 2005.
sales, decreased by 49 percent. full set of sustainability consecutive years. Our During this same period, sales
This corresponds with a 28 goals can be reviewed on participation in the voluntary increased by 351 percent.
percent absolute reduction. www.jnj.com. Green Power Partnership We’re set to continue the
program fosters development trend: Currently, about
of the green power market. 30 percent of our electricity
Partnering
partners who operate in a The company ranks as the needs comes from green
With Our manner consistent with third-largest corporate power sources: solar energy,
our values, and they help purchaser and the fifth-largest wind energy, biomass and
Supply Chain
our partners clearly under- purchaser in the U.S. geothermal sources.
stand our expectations.
External manufacturing They were developed
Partnering to Protect Our Ecosystems
will continue to be a critical in consideration of the
aspect of achieving different legal and cultural Is a Special Responsibility
Johnson & Johnson’s environments in which our
leadership and growth external manufacturing Johnson & Johnson supports Wildlife Fund (WWF), we
objectives, and in 2006 we partners operate and a number of nonprofit are making the environment
published the Standards internationally recognized organizations that are engaged healthier in sensitive
for Responsible External expectations for business in restoring or preserving ecoregions. WWF, under its
Manufacturing. These ethics, product quality, labor fragile ecosystems. These Healthy Communities, Healthy
standards help us select and employment, health and include The Conservation Ecosystems program, has
external manufacturing safety, and the environment. Fund, The Trust for Public improved community health
Land, The Nature Conservancy in areas including Kenya and
GUIDING PRINCIPLES FOR EXTERNAL MANUFACTURERS and The Wilderness Society. Mozambique. In Kenya, a new
We are particularly interested dispensary was constructed,
• Comply with applicable • Promote the safety, health in community health projects allowing greater access to
legal requirements. and well-being of employees. that directly link a sustainably medicines, and safe drinking
• Behave ethically and • Operate in an environmentally managed environment with the water was provided. In
with integrity. responsible manner. need for access to health care Mozambique, two new
• Integrate quality into • Implement management in communities that live near fishing sanctuaries were
business processes. systems to ensure ongoing areas of high biodiversity. created, and health clinics in
• Treat people with dignity performance and continual Through our signature the Congo Basin were staffed
and respect. improvement. partnership with the World and equipped.
32 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORT2006 YEAR IN REVIEW:
Giving Throughout the World
A Century of Giving Building
Health Care
In 2006, we marked a milestone in the disaster relief and philanthropic outreach that
company’s history, commemorating the 100th continues today across the world, reflecting Capacity
anniversary of our first documented response Our Credo commitment to the communities
to a major disaster. In the aftermath of the in which we live and work. Here are just a few
1906 earthquake that struck San Francisco, highlights of the many philanthropic efforts JOHNSON & JOHNSON/UCLA
we provided medical products and set up in which we took part throughout the world MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
field hospitals to support relief efforts. in 2006. Find out more about our efforts INSTITUTE (AFRICA) instituted a
program of intensive management
These actions set into motion a legacy of on www.jnj.com.
training for health care
Keeping Mothers at more than 450 health care system leaders of East African
facilities in Cameroon, China, organizations that provide HIV/
and Children
the Dominican Republic, India, AIDS prevention, treatment, care
Healthy Russia and Zimbabwe. and support services. Seventy
health leaders from seven African
PROJECT MERCY’S nations were trained in 2006.
PREMATURITY PREVENTION MEDHANE-ALEM SCHOOL
INITIATIVE (U.S.) is a (ETHIOPIA) provides HOSPITAL MANAGEMENT
partnership with the March HIV/AIDS education and TRAINING PROJECT (CHINA)
of Dimes and the Kentucky orphan support to residents is an ongoing program that
Department for Public Health who are uneducated and rely equips hospital administrators
to test whether bundling proven heavily on simple conditions with the management tools
interventions can lower rates of and routines to survive. With and competencies necessary to
preventable preterm births. our support, doctors from provide quality patient care in
Project Mercy, Ethiopia
Glen C. Olsen Hospital train the ever-changing health care
THE ELIZABETH GLASER students on public health the success of the National environment; it is administered by
PEDIATRIC AIDS FOUNDATION issues such as sexually Safe Kids Campaign, which the China Hospital Management
(WORLDWIDE) first partnered transmitted diseases, malaria started in the U.S. in 1987 and Association, with support from
with Johnson & Johnson in prevention and intestinal has seen a dramatic decline Xian-Janssen Pharmaceutical Ltd.
2003 for the prevention of parasites so they can educate in the childhood injury death
mother-to-child transmission and influence their villages. rate since its inception. Now EUROPEAN HEALTH LEADERSHIP
of HIV (PMTCT). In 2006 our celebrating its 20th anniversary, PROGRAMME (EUROPE) is a
partnership reached more than SAFE KIDS WORLDWIDE® Safe Kids Worldwide® is partnership between INSEAD
260,000 pregnant women, fosters multifaceted initiatives active in 16 countries on all and Johnson & Johnson that
with HIV testing and counseling on a global scale based on major continents. brings together participants from
many countries for a two-week
Providing Improving Access
Also in 2006, we continued educational experience that equips
Relief When to help communities in the to Health Care and them with the concepts, tools,
Disaster Strikes southern U.S. affected by Health Products techniques and strategies to play
Hurricane Katrina. These significant leadership roles in
efforts included assistance MEBENDAZOLE DONATION health care.
We responded with products with establishing mental INITIATIVE (CAMEROON)
and money following health programs for is a new multi-year program ASSOCIACAO SAUDE DE
several major disasters in children traumatized to provide mebendazole, FAMILIA (BRAZIL) trains outreach
2006, including mudslides by the disaster; funding a treatment for intestinal workers to provide HIV/AIDS
in the Philippines and the for automatic electronic worms, to some of the health education to female
earthquake in Indonesia. defibrillators in key most severely infected adolescents, adult women and
Several Johnson & Johnson community health centers children in the world. their partners. Dozens
affiliates provided local in New Orleans; and support In 2006, 4 million doses of health teams have been
assistance in the immediate to several universities for were distributed for use trained, and nearly 20,000
aftermath of these disasters. educational services. in Cameroon. women have benefited.
YEAR IN REVIEW 33Board of Directors First Row, Left to Right
WILLIAM C. WELDON
Chairman, Board of Directors,
and Chief Executive Officer
CHRISTINE A. POON
Vice Chairman,
Board of Directors
MICHAEL M. E. JOHNS, M.D.
Executive Vice President
for Health Affairs, Emory
University; Chief Executive
Officer of the Robert W.
Woodruff Health Sciences
Center, Emory University;
Chairman of Emory Healthcare,
Emory University
Second Row, Left to Right
ANN D. JORDAN
Former Director,
Social Services Department,
Chicago Lying-In Hospital
LEO F. MULLIN
Retired Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer,
Delta Air Lines, Inc.
MARY SUE COLEMAN, PH.D.
President, University of
Michigan
Third Row, Left to Right
DAVID SATCHER, M.D., PH.D.
Director, Center of Excellence
on Health Disparities,
Morehouse School of Medicine;
Former U.S. Surgeon General
SUSAN L. LINDQUIST, PH.D.
Member and Former Director,
Whitehead Institute for
Biomedical Research; Professor
of Biology, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology
STEVEN S REINEMUND
Executive Chairman,
PepsiCo, Inc.
Fourth Row, Left to Right
JAMES G. CULLEN
Retired President and
Chief Operating Officer,
Bell Atlantic Corporation
ARNOLD G. LANGBO
Retired Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer,
Kellogg Company
CHARLES PRINCE
Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer, Citigroup Inc.
34 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTCommittees NOMINATION & CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee,
of the Board comprised entirely of independent Directors, is responsible
for overseeing corporate governance matters, reviewing
possible candidates for Board membership and recommending
nominees for election. The Committee is also responsible
for overseeing the process for performance evaluations of
the Board and its committees. Additionally, the Committee
reviews the Company’s management succession plans
and executive resources.
AUDIT
The Audit Committee, comprised entirely of independent Ann D. Jordan, Chairman
Directors, helps the Board oversee the Company’s accounting James G. Cullen
and reporting practices. It recommends independent public Arnold G. Langbo
accountants for appointment by the Board and reviews their Charles Prince
performance; monitors the adequacy of internal accounting Steven S Reinemund
practices, procedures and controls; and reviews all significant
changes in accounting policies.
PUBLIC POLICY
James G. Cullen, Chairman The Public Policy Advisory Committee reviews the Company’s
Mary Sue Coleman, Ph.D. policies, programs and practices on public health issues
Leo F. Mullin regarding the environment and the health and safety
of employees. The Committee also reviews the Company’s
governmental affairs and policies and other public policy
COMPENSATION & BENEFITS issues facing the Company. The Committee advises and makes
The Compensation & Benefits Committee, comprised recommendations to the Board on these issues as appropriate.
entirely of independent Directors, reviews the compensa- The Public Policy Advisory Committee is comprised of
tion philosophy and policies of the non-Board Management independent Directors and the Company’s General Counsel
Compensation Committee with respect to executive and Vice Presidents for Corporate Affairs and Government
compensation, perquisites and other compensation matters Affairs and Policy.
for employees (except for members of the Executive
Committee). The Committee also administers the Company’s Leo F. Mullin, Chairman
long-term incentive plans and determines the compensation Russell C. Deyo
of the members of the Executive Committee. Additionally, Thomas M. Gorrie, Ph.D.
the Committee oversees the management of the various Susan L. Lindquist, Ph.D.
retirement, pension, long-term incentive, savings, health and Brian D. Perkins
welfare plans that cover substantially all employees of the David Satcher, M.D., Ph. D.
Company’s domestic operations and employees of certain
international subsidiaries.
SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
Arnold G. Langbo, Chairman The Science & Technology Advisory Committee is comprised
Michael M. E. Johns, M.D. of independent Directors and the Company’s Vice President,
Ann D. Jordan Science and Technology. It advises the Board on scientific
Charles Prince matters, including major internal projects, interaction
Steven S Reinemund with academic and other outside research organizations,
and the acquisition of technologies and products.
FINANCE David Satcher, M.D., Ph.D., Chairman
The Finance Committee exercises the management authority Mary Sue Coleman, Ph.D.
of the Board during the intervals between Board meetings. Michael M. E. Johns, M.D.
The Finance Committee is comprised of the Chairman, Susan L. Lindquist, Ph.D.
Presiding Director and Vice Chairman of the Board. Theodore J. Torphy, Ph.D.
William C. Weldon, Chairman
James G. Cullen
Christine A. Poon
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD 35CORPORATE OFFICERS
WILLIAM C. WELDON THOMAS M. GORRIE, PH.D. THEODORE J. TORPHY, PH.D.
Chairman, Board of Directors Vice President Vice President
Chief Executive Officer Government Affairs and Policy Science and Technology
Chairman, Executive Committee
JOANN HEFFERNAN HEISEN NICHOLAS J. VALERIANI
CHRISTINE A. POON Vice President, Diversity Worldwide Chairman
Vice Chairman, Board of Directors Medical Devices & Diagnostics Group
Executive Committee DAVID P. HOLVECK Executive Committee
Vice President,
DOMINIC J. CARUSO Corporate Development
Vice President, Finance
Chief Financial Officer RAYMOND C. JORDAN The Executive Committee of
Executive Committee Vice President, Public Affairs & Johnson & Johnson is the principal
Corporate Communications management group responsible
STEPHEN J. COSGROVE for the operations and allocation
Corporate Controller JOHN A. PAPA of the resources of the Company.
Treasurer This Committee oversees
LAVERNE H. COUNCIL and coordinates the activities of
Vice President, Chief BRIAN D. PERKINS the Consumer, Pharmaceuticals
Information Officer Vice President and Medical Devices and
Corporate Affairs Diagnostics business segments.
RUSSELL C. DEYO Each subsidiary within the
Vice President, General Counsel STEVEN M. ROSENBERG business segments is, with some
Chief Compliance Officer Secretary exceptions, managed by citizens
Executive Committee Assistant General Counsel of the country where it is located.
KAYE I. FOSTER-CHEEK JOSEPH C. SCODARI
Vice President, Human Resources Worldwide Chairman
Executive Committee Pharmaceuticals Group
Executive Committee
COLLEEN A. GOGGINS
Worldwide Chairman AJIT SHETTY
Johnson & Johnson Consumer Group Vice President
Executive Committee Worldwide Operations
COMPANY GROUP CHAIRMEN
RICK D. ANDERSON JOHN H. JOHNSON KRISTINE PETERSON
SUPRATIM BOSE GUY J. LEBEAU, M.D. MARC E. ROBINSON
DONALD M. CASEY KAREN A. LICITRA JOSE V. SARTARELLI, PH.D.
ROSEMARY A. CRANE SHERI S. MCCOY MICHAEL E. SNEED
ROY N. DAVIS JULIE H. MCHUGH PERICLES P. STAMATIADES
SETH H. Z. FISCHER PATRICK D. MUTCHLER PAUL A. STOFFELS, M.D.
CARLOS A. GOTTSCHALK DAVID Y. NORTON
36 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTCorporate Governance and Management’s Responsibility
Johnson &Johnson is governed by the values set forth in Our PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
Credo, created by General Robert Wood Johnson in 1943. These public accountingfirm, is engaged to perform an integrated audit
principles have guided us over the years and continue to set the of our consolidated financial statements and internal control
tone of integrity for theentire Company. At all levels, the over financial reporting. Their Report of Independent Registered
employees of Johnson & Johnson are committed tothe ethical Public AccountingFirm is onpage 77.
principles embodied in Our Credo and these principles have TheAudit Committee of our Board of Directors is composed
been woven into the fabric of the Company. solely of independent directors with the financial knowledge and
Thevalues articulated in Our Credo extend to our account- experience to provide appropriate oversight. We review internal
ing and financial responsibilities to Johnson & Johnson share- control matters and key accountingand financial reporting issues
holders and investors. We, the management of Johnson & with the Audit Committee on a regular basis. In addition, the
Johnson, are responsible for theintegrity and objectivity of the independent auditors, the General Counsel and the Vice Presi-
accompanying financial statements and related information. We dent of Internal Audit regularly meet in private sessions with our
are also responsible for ensuringthat financial data is reported Audit Committee to discuss the results of their work including
accurately and in a manner that facilitates the understanding of observations on the adequacy of internal financial controls, the
thisdata. quality of financial reporting and confirmation that they are prop-
As evidence of our commitmentto this responsibility, we erly discharging their responsibilities and other relevant matters.
maintain a well-designed system of internal accountingcon- Our Executive Committee is continuously involved in
trols, encourage strong and effective corporate governance from thereview of financial results as well as developing and under-
our Board of Directors, continuously review our business results standing strategies and key initiatives for long-term growth. Our
and strategic choices and focus on financial stewardship. intentis to ensure that we maintain objectivity in our business
Our corporate staff of professionallytrained internal audi- assessments, constructively challenge the approachto business
tors,who travel worldwide, monitor our system of internal opportunities and issues and monitor our business results and
accounting controls designed to provide reasonable assurance the related controls.
that assets are safeguarded and that transactions and events are Our consolidated financial statements and financial data
recorded properly. Our internal controls include self-assessments that follow have been prepared in conformity with accounting
and internal reviews of our operating companies. principles generally accepted in the United States of America
During 2006, the Company continuedto invest significant and include amounts that are based upon our best judgments.
time and resources in order to ensure compliance with Section We are committed to present and discuss results of operations in
404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Based on the work per- a clear and transparent manner in order to provide timely, com-
formed, we have concluded that our internal control over finan- prehensive and understandable information to our shareholders.
cial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2006. We refer
you to Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting on page 76.
We require the management teams of our operating
companies to certify their compliance with our Policy on William C. Weldon Dominic J. Caruso
Business Conduct and we have a systematic program designed Chairman, Board of Vice President, Finance,
to ensure compliance with these policies. To view our Policy Directors, and Chief and Chief Financial Officer
onBusiness Conduct, please visit our website at Executive Officer
www.jnj.com/our_company/policies.
Table of Contents
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS AUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
38 Organization and Business Segments 50 Consolidated Balance Sheets
38 Results of Operations 51 Consolidated Statements of Earnings
39 Analysis of Sales by Business Segments 52 Consolidated Statements of Equity
42 Analysis of Consolidated Earnings Before Provision 53 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
forTaxes on Income 54 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
44 Liquidity and Capital Resources 76 Management’s Report on Internal Control over
46 Other Information FinancialReporting
49 Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results 77 Report of Independent Registered Public AccountingFirm
78 Summary of Operations and Statistical Data 1996–2006
79 Shareholder Return Performance Graphs
80 Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORT 37Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Organization and Business Segments acceptance of the Company’s consumer products involves signif-
icantexpenditures for advertising andpromotion.
DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY AND BUSINESS SEGMENTS
Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) have
MANAGEMENT’S OBJECTIVES
approximately 122,200 employees worldwide engaged in the
A primary objective of the Company is to achieve superior levels
research and development, manufacture and sale of a broad range
of capital efficient profitablegrowth. To accomplishthis, the
of products in the health care field. The Company conducts busi-
Company’s management operates the business consistent with
ness in virtually all countries of the world and its primary focus
certain strategic principles that have proven successful over
has been on products related to human health and well-being.
time. To this end, the Company participates in growth areas in
TheCompany is organized into three business segments:
human health care and is committed to attaining leadership
Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnos-
positions in these growth segments through the developmentof
tics. TheConsumer segment includes abroad range of products
innovative products and services. New products introduced
used in the baby and kids care, skin care, oralcare, woundcare
within the past five years accounted for over 30% of 2006 sales.
and women’s health care fields, as well as nutritional and over-
In 2006, $7.1 billion, or 13.4%of sales was invested in research
the-counter pharmaceutical products. Theseproducts are mar-
and development, an increase of $0.7 billion over 2005. This
keted principally to the general public and sold both to
increase reflects management’s commitmentto the importance
wholesalers and directly to independentand chain retail outlets
of on-goingdevelopment of new anddifferentiated products and
throughout the world. ThePharmaceutical segment includes
services to sustain longterm growth.
products in thefollowing therapeutic areas: anti-fungal, anti-
With more than 250 operating companies located in 57
infective, cardiovascular, contraceptive, dermatology, gastroin-
countries, theCompany views its principle of decentralized man-
testinal, hematology, immunology, neurology, oncology, pain
agement as an asset and fundamental to the success of a broadly
management, psychotropic (central nervous system), urology
based business. It also fosters an entrepreneurial spirit, combin-
and virology areas. Theseproducts are distributed directly to
ing the extensive resources of a large organization with the
retailers, wholesalers and health care professionals for prescrip-
ability to react quickly to local market changes and challenges.
tion use by the general public. TheMedical Devices and Diag-
TheCompany is committed to developing global business
nostics segment includes a broad range ofproducts used
leaders who can drive growth objectives. Businesses are man-
principally in the professional fields byphysicians, nurses, thera-
aged for thelong term in order to sustain leadership positions
pists, hospitals, diagnostic laboratories and clinics. Theseprod-
and achieve growth that provides an enduring source of value to
ucts includeCordis’ circulatory disease management products;
our shareholders.
DePuy’s orthopaedic joint reconstruction andspinal care prod-
Unifying the management team and the Company’s dedi-
ucts; Ethicon’s woundcare and women’s health products;
cated employees in achieving these objectives is Our Credo. Our
Ethicon Endo-Surgery’s minimally invasive surgical products;
Credo provides a common set of values and serves as a constant
LifeScan’s blood glucose monitoring andinsulin delivery
reminder of the Company’s responsibilities to its customers,
products; Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics’ professional diagnostic
employees, communities andshareholders. TheCompany
products andVision Care’s disposable contact lenses.
believes that these basic principles, along with itsoverall mission
TheCompany’s structure is based upon the principle of
of improving the quality of life for peopleeverywhere, will enable
decentralized management. TheExecutive Committee of
Johnson &Johnson to continue to beamong the leaders in the
Johnson & Johnson is the principalmanagement group respon-
health care industry.
sible for theoperations and allocation of the resources of the
Company. This Committee oversees and coordinates the activi-
ties of the Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Results of Operations
Diagnostics business segments. Each subsidiary within the
ANALYSIS OF CONSOLIDATED SALES
business segments is, with some exceptions, managed by In 2006, worldwide sales increased 5.6% to $53.3 billion, com-
citizens of the country where it is located. pared to increases of 6.7% in 2005 and 13.1% in 2004. These
In all of its product lines, the Company competes with sales increases consisted of the following:
companies both large and small, located throughout the world.
Competition is strong in all product lines without regard to Sales increase due to: 2006 2005 2004
thenumber andsize of the competing companies involved. Com- Volume 3.8% 5.4 8.7
petition inresearch, involvingthe development and the improve- Price 1.5 0.6 1.0
ment ofnew and existing products andprocesses, is particularly Currency 0.3 0.7 3.4
significant. Thedevelopment of new and improved products is Total 5.6% 6.7 13.1
important to the Company’s success in all areas of its business.
This also includes protecting the Company’s portfolio of intellec-
Sales by U.S. companies were $29.8 billion in 2006, $28.4 billion
tual property. Thecompetitive environment requires substantial
in 2005, and $27.7 billion in 2004. This represents an increase of
investments in continuingresearch and multiple sales forces.
4.9% in 2006, 2.2% in 2005, and 9.9% in 2004. Sales by inter-
Inaddition, the development and maintenance of customer
national companies were $23.5 billion in 2006, $22.1 billion in
2005, and $19.6 billion in 2004. This represents an increase of
6.4% in 2006, 13.1% in 2005, and 18.0% in 2004.
38 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTU.S. and 60 estimated that the fiscal fourth quarter growth rate in 2004 was
International Sales enhanced by approximately 2% and the year by approximately
for 10 Years 50 0.5%. Thenet earnings impact of theadditional week in 2004
(in billions of dollars) wasnegligible.
40
U.S
International 30 Sales by 60
Segment
20 (inbillions of dollars) 50
10 40
Consumer
0 Pharmaceutical 30
96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 Medical Devices
andDiagnostics
20
10
Thefive-year compound annual growth rates for worldwide,
U.S. and international sales were 10.5%, 8.5% and 13.5%, 0
04 05 06
respectively. Theten-year compound annual growth rates for
worldwide, U.S. and international sales were 9.6%, 10.6%
and8.4%, respectively.
Analysis of Sales by Business
Sales by 60 Segments
Geographic
Region 50 CONSUMER SEGMENT
Consumer segment sales in 2006 were $9.8 billion, an increase
(inbillions of dollars)
40 of 7.5%, over 2005 with operational growth accountingfor 6.4%
U.S of the total growth and 1.1% due to positive currency fluctua-
Europe 30
WesternHemisphere tions. U.S. Consumer segment sales were $4.6 billion, an
excludingU.S. 20 increase of 3.8%. International sales were $5.2 billion, an
Asia Pacific, Africa
increase of 10.9%, with 8.7% as a result of operations and 2.2%
10 due to currency fluctuations over 2005.
Consumer segment sales growth in 2006 was led by
0
04 05 06 strongsales performance in the Skin Care and Baby & Kids
Carefranchises. The2006 Over-the-Counter (OTC) Pharma-
ceuticals and Nutritionals franchise sales were $2.7 billion, an
All international geographic regions experienced sales
increase of 2.4%from 2005. This growth was led by the success
growth during 2006, consistingof 4.9% in Europe, 14.7% in the
of the re-launch of the TYLENOL®Upper Respiratory product
Western Hemisphere (excluding the U.S.) and 5.2% in the Asia-
line with products containingphenylephrine instead of pseu-
Pacific, Africa regions. Thesesales increases include the impact
doephedrine, as well as growth in SPLENDA®No Calorie Sweet-
of currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and foreign
eners. This was partially offset by sales declines in adult
currencies which had positive impacts of 0.5% in Europe, 5.4%
analgesics. TheSkin Care franchise sales in 2006 were $2.6 bil-
in theWestern Hemisphere (excluding the U.S.) and a negative
lion, representing an increase of 9.7% over 2005. This was
impact of 1.4%in the Asia-Pacific, Africa region.
attributable to sales growth in the AVEENO®, JOHNSON’S®
In 2006 and 2005, the Company did not have acustomer
adult, suncare, and the newly acquired Groupe Vendôme adult
that represented 10% or more of total revenues. In 2004, sales
skin care product lines. TheBaby & Kids Care franchise sales
to Cardinal Health and McKesson accounted for 10.2% and
grew by 11.5% to $1.7billion in 2006. This stronggrowth was led
10.0% of total revenues, respectively.
by the success ofpowder product lines in international markets,
2004 results benefited from the inclusion of a 53rd week.
as well as cleanser, lotion and cream product lines in both U.S.
(See Note 1 for Annual Closing Date details.) TheCompany
Major Consumer Franchise Sales:
_______%__ C_h_a_n_g_e_______
(Dollars in Millions) 2006 2005 2004 ’06 vs. ’05 ’05 vs. ’04
OTC Pharmaceuticals & Nutritionals $2,742 2,678 2,395 2.4% 11.8
Skin Care 2,633 2,401 2,140 9.7 12.2
Baby & Kids Care 1,740 1,561 1,447 11.5 7.9
Women’s Health 1,666 1,568 1,470 6.3 6.7
Other 993 888 881 11.8 0.8
Total $9,774 9,096 8,333 7.5% 9.2
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 39and international markets. TheWomen’s Health franchise sales thetreatment of irritability associated with autistic disorder in
grew by 6.3%to $1.7 billion in 2006 resulting from solid contri- children and adolescents. The RISPERDAL®compound patent is
butions from the K-Y®and STAYFREE®product lines. Sales in all scheduled to expire in the U.S. in December 2007. The Company
other franchises grew by 11.8% to $1.0 billion in 2006. This was has submitted pediatric data to the FDA in order to extend exclu-
primarily due to the acquisition of the REMBRANDT®Brand of sivity through June2008. The expiration of a product patent
oral care products. typically results in a loss of market exclusivity and can result in a
Theoperating results of the Consumer Healthcare business significant reduction in sales.
acquired from Pfizer Inc. on December 20, 2006 will be reported in PROCRIT®(Epoetin alfa) and EPREX®(Epoetin alfa) had
the Company’s financial statements beginning in 2007, as 2006 combined sales of $3.2 billion in 2006, a decline of 4.3% com-
results subsequent to the acquisition date were notsignificant. pared to prior year. PROCRIT®experienced a sales decline of 8.1%
Consumer segment sales in 2005 were $9.1 billion, an in 2006 dueto a competitor’s anticompetitive contracting strategy
increase of 9.2%, over 2004 with operational growth accounting in oncology clinics. EPREX®sales increased by 3.5% in 2006. The
for 7.8% of the total growth and 1.4%due to positive currency approval of the once weekly administration and the recent restora-
fluctuations. U.S. Consumer segment sales were $4.4 billion, tion to thelabel of subcutaneous administration for EPREX®in
anincrease of 4.3%. International sales were $4.7 billion, an Europe resulted in volumegains. Although the EPREX®patent has
increase of 14.2%, with 11.3%as a result of operations and 2.9% expired in mostmajor European markets, no erythropoietin prod-
due to currency fluctuations over 2004. uct has been approved using the biosimilar regulatory pathway.
Consumer segment sales in2004 were $8.3 billion, an increase Several companies have made filings using the pathway and their
of 12.1% over 2003, with operational growth accounting for8.8%of filings are under review. TheCompany cannot predict when such
the total growth, and 3.3% due to a positive currency impact. U.S. products may beapproved.
sales increased by 6.5% while international sales increased by REMICADE®(infliximab), a biologic approved for the
18.7%, with 11.5% due to operational gains and a positive currency treatment of Crohn’s disease, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic
impact of 7.2% over 2003. arthritis, ulcerative colitis and use in thetreatment of rheumatoid
arthritis, achieved sales of $3.0 billion in 2006, with growth of
PHARMACEUTICAL SEGMENT 18.9% over prior year. Continued growth was driven by increased
Pharmaceutical segment sales in 2006were $23.2 billion, an demand due to expanded indications. During the fiscal third
increase of 4.2% over 2005, with 3.9% of this change due to quarter of 2006, REMICADE®received FDA approval for the
operational growth and the remaining 0.3%increase related to treatment of adults with chronic severe plaque psoriasis.
the positive impact of currency. U.S. Pharmaceutical segment TOPAMAX®(topiramate), which has been approved for
sales were $15.1 billion, an increase of 4.2%. International adjunctive and monotherapy use in epilepsy, as well as for the
Pharmaceutical segment sales were $8.1 billion, an increase of prophylactic treatment of migraines, achieved $2.0 billion in
4.2%, which included 3.4%of operational growth and 0.8% sales in 2006, an increase of 20.7% over prior year. Themigraine
related to thepositive impact of currency. indication was the key driver of 2006 sales growth.
RISPERDAL®(risperidone), a medication that treats the LEVAQUIN®(levofloxacin) and FLOXIN®(ofloxacin)
symptoms of schizophrenia and bipolar mania, and RISPERDAL® achieved combined sales of $1.5 billion in 2006, representing
CONSTA®(risperidone) long acting injection that treats the growth of 2.5% over prior year. This growth was achieved despite
symptoms of schizophrenia, achieved $4.2 billion in sales in a lack of growth in the market.
2006, an increase of 17.8% over prior year. Sales growth wasposi- DURAGESIC®/Fentanyl Transdermal (fentanyl transdermal
tively impacted by lower rebates for RISPERDAL®and higher system) sales declined to $1.3 billion in 2006, a reduction of 18.3%
demand for RISPERDAL®CONSTA®. U.S. sales of RISPERDAL® from2005. This decline was the resultof the impactof generic
andRISPERDAL®CONSTA®increased by 24.3% to $2.4 billion, competition in theU.S. and certain international markets. Generic
whileinternational sales increased by 9.9%to $1.8 billion. In competition in the U.S. began in January 2005.
October of2006, the Company received approval from the U.S. Thehormonal contraceptive franchise sales declined to
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to market RISPERDAL®for $1.0billion in 2006, a reduction of 10.6% from 2005. ORTHO
Major Pharmaceutical Product Revenues:
_______%__ C_h_a_n_g_e_______
(Dollars in Millions) 2006 2005 2004 ’06 vs. ’05 ’05 vs. ’04
RISPERDAL®(risperidone)/RISPERDAL®CONSTA®(risperidone) $ 4,183 3,552 3,050 17.8% 16.5
PROCRIT®/EPREX®(Epoetin alfa) 3,180 3,324 3,589 (4.3) (7.4)
REMICADE®(infliximab) 3,013 2,535 2,145 18.9 18.2
TOPAMAX®(topiramate) 2,027 1,680 1,410 20.7 19.1
LEVAQUIN®/FLOXIN®(levofloxacin/ofloxacin) 1,530 1,492 1,296 2.5 15.2
DURAGESIC®/Fentanyl Transdermal (fentanyl transdermal system) 1,295 1,585 2,083 (18.3) (23.9)
ACIPHEX®/PARIET®(rabeprazole sodium) 1,239 1,169 1,116 6.0 4.7
Hormonal Contraceptives 1,016 1,136 1,278 (10.6) (11.1)
Other 5,784 5,849 6,161 (1.1) (5.1)
Total $23,267 22,322 22,128 4.2% 0.9
40 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTEVRA®(norelgestromin/ethinyl estradiol), the first contraceptive Pharmaceutical segment sales in 2005 were $22.3 billion,
patch approved by the FDA, experienced a significant decline in an increase of 0.9% over 2004, with 0.4%of this change due to
sales as a result of labeling changes and negative media coverage operational growth and the remaining 0.5% increase related to
concerning product safety. Thesales decline was also a result of the positive impact of currency. U.S. Pharmaceutical segment
continued generic competition in oral contraceptives. Growth in sales decreased 3.2% while international Pharmaceutical seg-
ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN®LO (norgestimate/ethinyl estradiol), a ment sales increased 9.4%, which included 7.8% of operational
low dose oral contraceptive partially offset the sales decline in growth and 1.6% related to thepositive impact of currency.
the hormonal contraceptive franchise. Pharmaceutical segment sales in 2004 were $22.1 billion,
CONCERTA®(methylphenidate HCl), a product for the an increase of 13.4%over 2003, with 10.7% due to operational
treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, achieved growth and 2.7% due to positive currency fluctuations. U.S.
sales of $0.9 billion in 2006, representing an increase of 20.2% Pharmaceutical segmentsales increased by 12.7% while inter-
over 2005. Although the original CONCERTA®patent expired in national Pharmaceutical segment sales grew 14.8% over 2003.
2004, two new CONCERTA®patents have been issued which This included operational growth of 6.4%and 8.4%related to
expire in 2017. At present, the FDA has notapproved any generic the positive impact from currency.
version that is substitutable for CONCERTA®. Abbreviated New Pharmaceutical segment sales in 2005 and 2004 included a
Drug Applications (ANDAs) for generic versions of CONCERTA® benefit from adjustments related to previously estimated perform-
are pending and may be approved at any time. ance based rebate allowances and managed care contracts.These
NATRECOR®(nesiritide), a product for thetreatment of adjustments were less than 1.0% of salesin both 2005 and 2004.
patients withacutely decompensated congestive heart failure
who have dyspnea at rest or with minimal activity, has experi- MEDICALDEVICESAND DIAGNOSTICS SEGMENT
enced a significant decline in demand due to negative media cov- TheMedical Devices and Diagnostics segment achieved sales
erage regarding a meta analysis of selected historical clinical of$20.3 billion in 2006, representing an increase over the prior
trials. TheCompany believes that the data does not support the year of 6.2%, with operational growth of 6.4%and a negative
conclusions of these medical and consumer publications and the impact from currency of 0.2%. U.S. sales were $10.1 billion, an
currently approved label for NATRECOR®reflects all available increase of 6.5%. International sales were $10.2 billion, an
data to date. increase of 5.9%, with 6.2% from operations and a negative
NATRECOR®was purchased by the Company in 2003 and currencyimpact of 0.3%.
resulted in the recording of an intangible asset, which is being The DePuy franchise achieved $4.1 billion in sales in 2006,
amortized over 12 years. The remaining unamortized intangible which was a 6.7% increase over prior year. This growth was prima-
value associated with NATRECOR®was $1.0 billion at the endofthe rily due to DePuy’s orthopaedic joint reconstruction products,
fiscal fourth quarter of 2006, and based on the current estimate of Mitek sports medicine products and the trauma business. The
projected future cash flows, no adjustment to this intangible asset acquisitions of Future Medical Systems S.A. and Hand Innovations
is required. The Company is currently conducting several clinical LLC also contributed to this growth.
trials for NATRECOR®, the outcomes of which cannot be predicted The Cordis franchise achieved sales of $4.1 billion in 2006, an
and may impact the projections of future cash flows. increase of 2.6% over 2005. Sales of the CYPHER®Sirolimus-elut-
During 2006, the Company received FDA approval for ingStent, the largest product in the Cordis franchise, were relatively
PREZISTA™(darunavir), an anti-HIV medication, and INVEGA™ flat. The relatively modest growth in CYPHER®Sirolimus-eluting
(paliperidone) Extended-Release Tablets, a new atypical antipsy- Stent sales was caused by lower average selling prices, negative
chotic, for thetreatment of schizophrenia. Additionally, media and a regulatory focus concerning drug eluting stents and
IONSYS™(fentanyl iontophoretic transdermal system), the first the corresponding lack of market growth. There were strong
needle-free, patient-activated analgesic system received FDA performances by the Biosense Webster and endovascular busi-
and European Commission approval. JURNISTA™prolonged- nesses in 2006. During the fiscal third quarter of2006, the Com-
release tablets (Hydromorphone HCl), anew prescription treat- pany received FDA approval to market the PRECISE®Nitinol Stent
ment for severepain, received approval through the European and the ANGIOGUARD™Emboli Capture Guidewire to treat
Mutual Recognition Procedure in 2006. carotid artery disease. In addition, theCompany received CE Mark
Major Medical Devices and Diagnostics Franchise Sales*:
_______%__ C_h_a_n_g_e_______
(Dollars in Millions) 2006 2005 2004 ’06 vs. ’05 ’05 vs. ’04
DEPUY® $ 4,105 3,847 3,420 6.7% 12.5
CORDIS® 4,088 3,982 3,213 2.6 24.0
ETHICON ENDO-SURGERY® 3,376 3,105 2,854 8.7 8.8
ETHICON® 3,213 3,092 2,833 3.9 9.1
LIFESCAN® 2,074 1,909 1,701 8.6 12.3
Vision Care 1,879 1,694 1,530 10.9 10.7
ORTHO-CLINICAL DIAGNOSTICS® 1,488 1,408 1,273 5.7 10.6
Other 60 59 63 1.7 (6.3)
Total $20,283 19,096 16,887 6.2% 13.1
* Prior year amounts have been restated to conform with current presentation.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 41approval in Europefor the CYPHER SELECT™Sirolimus-eluting In 2004, the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment
Stent for usein the treatment of severe arterial disease in the leg. achieved sales of $16.9 billion, representing an increase over the
In April and July of 2004, the Cordis Cardiology Division of prior year of 13.2% with operational growth of 9.0% and a posi-
Cordis Corporation received Warning Letters from the FDA tive impact from currency of 4.2%. U.S. sales increased 6.9%
regarding Good Manufacturing Practice regulations and Good while international sales increased 20.7%, with 11.4%from
Clinical Practice regulations. In response to the Warning Letters, operations and 9.3%from currency.
Cordis has made improvements to its quality systems and has
provided periodic updates to the FDA. TheClinical Warning Analysis of Consolidated Earnings
Letter issues have been resolved to the FDA’s satisfaction. With
Before Provision forTaxes on Income
respect to theQuality System Warning Letter, in addition to the
improvement updates, the Cordis Juarez, Mexico and stent sup- Consolidated earnings before provision fortaxes on income
plier locations were inspected with acceptable results. TheFDA increased to $14.6 billion, or 11.2%, over the $13.1 billion earned in
inspected the Miami site and the Global Quality System, includ- 2005. Theincrease in 2005 was 6.4% over the $12.3 billion
ing Design Control system, in August 2006, with acceptable in2004. As a percent to sales, consolidated earnings before
results; Cordis received no observations from the FDA during this provision fortaxes on income in 2006 was 27.4%which was an
inspection. TheFDA inspections were completed in Cordis LLC improvement of 1.4% from 2005. There was no change as a percent
inSan German, Puerto Rico and Cordis laboratory operations in to sales between 2005 and 2004. For 2004, the improvement was
Warren, New Jersey in January 2007, thereby completingall 2.7% over the 23.3% in 2003. The sections that follow highlight the
scheduled follow up inspections. Cordis is in the process of significant components of the changes in consolidated earnings
evaluating and reviewing the overall results of the inspections before provision for taxes on income.
with the FDA.
Cost of Products Sold and Selling, Marketing andAdministra-
TheEthicon Endo-Surgery franchise achieved sales of
tive Expenses:Cost of products sold and selling, marketingand
$3.4billion in 2006, an 8.7% increase over 2005. A major
administrative expenses as a percent to sales were asfollows:
contributor of growth continues to beendocutter sales, which
include products usedin performing bariatric procedures for % of Sales 2006 2005 2004
thetreatment of obesity, an important focus area for thefran- Cost of products sold 28.2% 27.7 28.5
chise. Strong results were achieved with the success of the Percent point increase/(decrease) over the
HARMONIC SCALPEL®, an ultrasonic cutting and coagulating prior year 0.5 (0.8) (0.7)
surgical device, which received approval in January 2006 for Selling, marketing and administrative
expanded indications to include plastic surgery. There was also expenses 32.7 34.1 34.2
stronggrowth in advanced sterilization products. Percent point increase/(decrease) over the
TheEthicon franchise sales grew 3.9% in 2006, reaching prior year (1.4) (0.1) (0.3)
$3.2 billion. This was a result of solid growth in mesh and
women’s health and urology products. Sales of both In 2006, there was an increase in the percent to sales of costof
GYNECARE®products andDERMABOND®had strong results in products sold. This was due to unfavorable product mix and higher
2006. There was also continued growth in suture sales. manufacturing costs in the Pharmaceutical and Consumer seg-
TheLifeScan franchise achieved $2.1 billion in salesin 2006, ments. There was a decrease in the percent to sales of selling, mar-
an increase of 8.6% over 2005. Animas Corporation, which was keting and administrative expenses in 2006. This was a result of
acquired in the fiscal first quarter of 2006, provided LifeScan leveraging selling expenses and a reduction in advertising and
with a platform for entry into the insulin pump segment of the promotional spending. During 2006, the Company continuedto
diabetes market, was a key contributor to this growth. Strong focus on controllingexpenses.
performance was also achieved in the ONETOUCH®ULTRA® In 2005, there was a decrease in the percent to sales of cost
product line in both U.S. and international markets. ofproducts sold. This was due to lower manufacturing costs pri-
Sales in theVision Care franchise reached $1.9 billion in marily related to the CYPHER®Sirolimus-elutingStent, as well
2006, a growth rate of 10.9% over the prior year. This growth was asongoingcostcontainmentactivity across the organization,
led by the global success of ACUVUE®OASYS™Brand Contact partially offset by the negative impact of pharmaceutical product
Lenses with HYDRACLEAR™PLUS and ACUVUE®ADVANCE™ mix. There was also a decrease in the percent to sales of selling,
for ASTIGMATISM and the international success of 1-DAY marketing and administrative expenses. This was due to cost
ACUVUE®MOIST™and ACUVUE®DEFINE.™ containment initiatives in the Pharmaceutical segmentpartially
TheOrtho-Clinical Diagnostics franchise achieved $1.5 bil- offset by increases in investment spending in the Medical
lion in sales in 2006, a 5.7% increase over 2005. Growth was Devices and Diagnostics segment.
achieved in clinical laboratory and immunohematology sales in In 2004, there was a decrease in the percent to sales of cost
both the U.S. and international markets. ofproducts sold. This was due to favorable mix, as well as cost
TheMedical Devices and Diagnostics segment achieved improvement initiatives. There was also a decrease in the per-
sales of $19.1 billion in 2005, representing an increase over the cent to sales of selling, marketing and administrative expenses.
prior year of 13.1%, with operational growth of 12.5% and a posi- This was due to the Company’s focus on managingexpenses,
tive impact from currency of 0.6%. U.S. sales increased 10.6% partially offset by an increase in investment spending across a
while international sales increased 15.7%, with 14.5% from oper- number of businesses focused on driving future growth.
ations and 1.2% from currency.
42 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTResearch and Development:Research and development activi- molecules, accounted for $50 million before tax of the IPR&D
ties represent a significant part of the Company’s business. charges and wasincluded in the operating profit of the Pharmaceuti-
Theseexpenditures relate to the development of new products, cal segment. Closure Medical Corporation, a company with expert-
improvement of existing products, technical support of products ise and intellectual property in the biosurgicals market, accounted
and compliance with governmental regulations for theprotection for $51 million before tax of the IPR&D charges and wasincluded in
of consumers and patients. Worldwide costs of research activi- the operating profit of the Medical Devices and Diagnosticsseg-
ties, excluding in-process research and development charges, ment. Peninsula Pharmaceuticals, Inc., abiopharmaceutical com-
were as follows: pany focused on developingand commercializing antibiotics to treat
life-threatening infections,accounted for $252 million before tax of
(Dollars in Millions) 2006 2005 2004
the IPR&D charges and wasincluded in the operating profit of the
Research and development expense $7,125 6,462 5,344
Pharmaceutical segment. The $9million before tax IPR&D charge
Percent increase over the prior year 10.3% 20.9 10.6
related to Scott Lab, Inc. referred to above wasincluded in the oper-
Percent of sales 13.4% 12.8 11.3 ating profit of the Medical Devices and Diagnosticssegment.
In 2004, the Company recorded IPR&D charges of $18
Research and development expense as a percent of sales for the million before tax as a result of the acquisition of U.S. commer-
Pharmaceutical segment was 21.3%for 2006, 20.2% for 2005, cial rightsto certain patents and know-how in the field of
and 16.7% for 2004. Combinedresearch and development sedation and analgesia from Scott Lab, Inc. This charge was
expense as a percent to sales in theConsumer andMedical included in the operating profitof the Medical Devices and
Devices and Diagnostics segments were 7.2%, 6.9%, and 6.5% Diagnostics segment.
in 2006, 2005 and2004, respectively.
Research and development activities accelerated in the Other (Income) Expense, Net:Other (income) expense, net
Pharmaceutical segment, increasing to $5.0 billion, or 9.9%, over includes gains and losses related to the sale and write-down
2005. Thecompound annual growth rate was approximately ofcertain investments in equity securities held by Johnson &
14.6% for thefive-year period since 2001. Johnson Development Corporation, gains and losses on the dis-
Theincreased investment in research and developmentin posal of property, plant and equipment, currency gains and losses,
all segments, demonstrates the Company’s focus on knowledge minority interests, litigation settlements and liabilities and royalty
based products, andreflects a significant number of projects income. The change in other (income) expense, net from 2006 to
inlate stage development. 2005 was an increase in income of $457 million.
In 2006, other (income) expense, net included the gain
In-Process Research and Development:In 2006, the Company associated with the Guidant acquisition agreement termination
recorded in-process research and development(IPR&D) charges fee, less associated expenses, of $622 million. Other (income)
of $559 million before taxrelated to the acquisitions of the expense, net also included royalty incomepartially offset by
ConsumerHealthcare business of Pfizer Inc., Vascular Control expenses associated with the recording of additional product lia-
Systems, Inc., Ensure Medical, Inc., ColBar LifeScience Ltd., Hand bility reserves and theintegration costs associated with the
InnovationsLLC and Future Medical Systems S.A. The Consumer acquisition of Pfizer Consumer Healthcare.
Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. accounted for$320 million In 2005, other (income) expense, net included royalty
before taxofthe IPR&D chargesand was included in the operating incomepartially offset by several expense items, none of which
profit of the Consumersegment. The IPR&D chargesforall of the were individually significant.
following acquisitions were included in the operating profit of the In 2004, other (income) expense, net included several
Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment. Vascular ControlSys- expense items, none of which were individually significant,
tems, Inc., a privately held company focused on developing med- partially offset by royalty income.
ical devicesto treat fibroids and to controlbleeding in obstetric
and gynecologic applications, accounted for$87 million before tax
OPERATING PROFIT BY SEGMENT
of the IPR&D charges.Ensure Medical, Inc.,a privately held com- Operating profits by segment of business were as follows:
pany that develops devicesforpost-catheterization closure of the
femoral artery, accounted for$66 million before taxofthe IPR&D Percent of
charges.ColBar LifeScience Ltd., a privately held company special-
_____S_e_g_m__e_n_t _S_a_le_s_____
(Dollars in Millions) 2006 2005 2006 2005
izing in reconstructive medicine and tissue engineering, accounted
Consumer $ 1,374 1,592 14.1% 17.5
for$49 million before taxofthe IPR&D charges. Hand Innovations
Pharmaceutical 6,894 6,365 29.6 28.5
LLC, a privately held manufacturer of fracture fixation products for
the upper extremities, accounted for$22 million before taxofthe Med Devices and Diag 6,126 5,240 30.2 27.4
IPR&D charges.Future Medical Systems S.A., a privately held Segments total 14,394 13,197 27.0 26.1
company that primarily develops, manufacturesand markets Less: (Income)/Expenses
arthroscopic fluid management systems, accounted for$15 million not allocated to
before taxofthe IPR&D charges. segments(1) (193) 81
In 2005, the Company recorded IPR&Dcharges of $362 million Earnings before
before tax related to the acquisitions ofTransForm Pharmaceuticals, provision for taxes
Inc., Closure Medical Corporation, Peninsula Pharmaceuticals, Inc., on income $14,587 13,116 27.4% 26.0
and the international commercial rights to certain patents and (1)Amounts not allocated to segments include interest (income)/expense, minority
know-how in the fieldof sedation and analgesia from Scott Lab, Inc. interest, and general corporate (income)/expense.
TransForm Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a company specializing in the dis-
covery of superior formulations and novelcrystalline forms of drug
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 43OperatingProfit 15 Interest income in 2005 increased by $292 million due
bySegment primarily to higher rates of interest, as well as a higher average
(inbillions of dollars) 12 cash balance. The cash balance, including current marketable
securities, was$16.1 billion at the end of2005 and averaged
Consumer 9 $14.3billion,ascompared to the $11.3billion average cash balance
Pharmaceutical in 2004.
Medical Devices
6 Interest expense in 2005 decreased as compared to 2004
andDiagnostics
due in part to a decrease in the average debt balance, from $3.5
3 billion in 2004 to $2.6 billion in 2005.
Provision for Taxes on Income:Theworldwide effective income
0
04 05 06 tax rate was 24.2% in 2006, 23.3%in 2005 and33.7% in 2004.
The2006 tax rate benefited from a reversal of tax allowances of
$134 million associated with the Tibotec business, partially
Consumer Segment:Consumer segment operating profit in offset by the Guidant acquisition agreement termination fee
2006 decreased 13.7% from 2005. As a percent to sales, 2006 recorded at a 40.8% rate. The2005effective taxrate included
operating profitdeclinedto 14.1% resulting from $320 million of abenefit of $225 million, due to the reversal of a tax liability pre-
IPR&D expenses as well as expenses associated with the Pfizer viously recorded during the fiscal fourth quarter of 2004, related
Consumer Healthcare integration recorded during 2006. Con- to a technical correction to the AmericanJobs Creation Act
sumer segment operating profit in 2005 increased 10.2% over of2004.
the prior year. As a percent to sales, 2005 operating profit
increased slightly to 17.5%, despite increases in investment Liquidity and Capital Resources
spending in advertising and research and development.
CASH FLOWS
Pharmaceutical Segment:In 2006, Pharmaceutical segment In 2006, cash flow fromoperations was $14.2 billion, an increase
operating profit increased 8.3%and as a percent to sales of $2.4 billion over 2005. Theincrease in cash generated from
increased to 29.6%. This increase was the result of $302 million operations was a result of a net incomeincrease of $1.2 billion,
of IPR&D recorded during 2005 partially offset by increases in net of the non-cash impact of IPR&D charges. Themajor changes
research and development spending and lower gross margins in assets and liabilities were a $2.7 billion increase in accounts
in2006. In 2005, Pharmaceutical segment operating profit payable and accrued liabilities partially offset by a $0.9 billion
decreased 13.7%, and as a percent to sales declined 4.8% from increase in deferred taxes and a $0.8 billion increase in other
2004 to 28.5%. This change was primarily due to increased current and non-current assets.
investment in research and development spending, as well as Net cash used by investing activities increased by $20.0 bil-
theimpact of $302 million of IPR&D expenses in 2005. lion. This was primarily due to a $17.0 billion increase in acquisi-
tion activity most of which occurred late in the fiscal fourth
Medical Devices and Diagnostics Segment:In 2006, the oper-
quarter. For a more detailed discussion on mergers and acquisi-
ating profit in theMedical Devices and Diagnostics segment
tions, see Note 17. There was also a $3.6 billion net decrease in
increased 16.9%, and as a percent to sales increased 2.8%.
sales ofinvestments. Capital expenditures were $2.7 billion, $2.6
Theprimary driver of the improved operating profit was the
billion and $2.2 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Guidant acquisition agreement termination fee, less associated
Net cash used by financing activities increased by $1.7 bil-
expenses, of $622 million recorded during 2006. This was par-
lion. This was due to the $5.0 billion used for the common
tially offset by increases in IPR&D charges. In addition, advertis-
stockrepurchase program which was publicly announced on
ingandpromotional expense leveraging were offset in part by
March 8, 2006 and completed earlyin the fiscal fourth quarter
increases in research and development spending.
of 2006. This was partially offset by $3.3 billion of net proceeds
In 2005, the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment
from short term debt.
operating profit increased 33.5%, and as a percent to sales
Cash and currentmarketable securities were $4.1 billion
increased 4.2% from 2004 to 27.4%. This increase was driven
atthe end of 2006 as compared with $16.1 billion at the end
by improved gross margins due to cost reduction programs and
of2005, primarily due to the acquisition of the Consumer
product mix, primarily related to theCYPHER®Sirolimus-eluting
Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. on December 20, 2006.
Stent. This was partially offset by an increased investment in
Cash generated from operations amounted to $11.8billion in
research and development spending.
2005, which was $0.7 billion more than the cash generated from
Interest (Income) Expense:Interest income in 2006 increased operations in 2004 of $11.1 billion. Themajor factors contributing
by $342 million due primarily to higher rates of interest, as well as to the increase were a net incomeincrease of $2.2 billion, net of
a higher average cash balance despite the $5.0 billion common the non-cash impact of IPR&D charges. A $1.0 billion decrease
stock repurchase program and an increase in acquisition activity. inother current and non-current assets also contributed to this
The cash balance, including current marketable securities was increase. This was partially offset by a $1.5 billion decrease in
$4.1 billion at the end of 2006 and averaged $15.7 billion, as accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Additionally, cash pay-
compared to the $14.3 billion average cash balance in 2005. ments of approximately $0.5 billion were made for previously
Interest expense in 2006 increased slightly as compared to accrued taxes on the repatriation of undistributed international
2005 due to a higher average debt balance, from $2.6 billion in earnings in accordance with the American Jobs Creation Act of
2005 to$3.1 billion in 2006. This was partially offset by a 2004. There was also an increase of approximately $0.2 billion
decrease in interest rates. in pension fundingin 2005 as compared to 2004.
44 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTOper 15 net of debt) was $2.5 billion compared to net cash of $13.5billion
in2005. Total debt represented 14.4% of total capital(share-
p pe re
1 holders’ equity and total debt) in 2006 and 6.5% of total capital
(in billions of dollars
in 2005. Shareholders’ equity per share at the endof2006
a ial ndi r s was$13.59 compared with $13.01 at year-end 2005, an increase
rain as lo of 4.5%.
For theperiod ended December 31, 2006, there were no
material cash commitments. Johnson & Johnson continues to
beone of a few industrial companies with a Triple A credit rating.
A summary of borrowings can be found in Note 6.
5
LONG-TERM CONTRACTUALOBLIGATIONS
ANDCOMMITMENTS
TheCompany has long-term contractual obligations, primarily
FINANCING AND MARKET RISK lease, debt obligations and unfunded retirement plans, with no
TheCompany uses financial instruments to manage the impact other significant obligations. To satisfy theseobligations, the
of foreign exchange rate changes on cash flows. Accordingly, Company will use cash from operations. Thefollowing table
theCompany enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to summarizes the Company’s contractual obligations and their
protect the value of certain foreign currency assets and liabilities aggregate maturities as of December 31, 2006 (see Notes 4, 6
and to hedge future foreign currency products costs. Gains or and 13 for further details):
losses on these contracts are offset by the gains or losses onthe
Long-Term Unfunded
underlyingtransactions. A 10% appreciation of the U.S. Dollar
Operating Debt Retirement
from the December 31, 2006 market rates wouldincrease the (Dollars in Millions) Leases Obligations(1) Plans Total
unrealized value of the Company’s forward contracts by 2007 $187 9 41 237
$262million. Conversely, a 10% depreciation of the U.S. Dollar 2008 162 9 42 213
from the December 31, 2006 market rates woulddecrease
2009 137 240 44 421
theunrealized value of the Company’s forward contracts by
2010 115 9 45 169
$320 million. In either scenario, the gain or loss on the forward
2011 98 6 47 151
contract wouldbe offset by the gain or loss on the underlying
After2011 150 1,750 260 2,160
transaction and, therefore, wouldhave no impact on future
Total $849 2,023 479 3,351
earnings and cash flows.
TheCompany hedges the exposure to fluctuations in cur- (1)Amounts do not include interest expense.
rency exchange rates, and the effect on certain assets and liabili-
ties in foreign currency, by entering into currency swap contracts. SHARE REPURCHASE AND DIVIDENDS
A 1% change in the spread between U.S. and foreign interest On March 8, 2006, the Company announced that its Board of
rates on the Company’s interest rate sensitive financial instru- Directors approved a stock repurchase program,authorizing the
ments would either increase or decrease the unrealized value of Company to buy back up to $5.0 billion of the Company’s com-
the Company’s swap contracts by approximately $127 million. In monstock. This program was completed early in the fiscal fourth
either scenario, at maturity, the gain or loss on the swap contract quarter of 2006 with 81.3 million shares repurchased. In addition
wouldbe offset by the gain or loss on the underlying transaction theCompany has an annual program to repurchase shares for
and therefore wouldhave no impact on future cash flows. use in employee stock and incentive plans.
TheCompany does not enter into financial instruments TheCompany increased its dividend in 2006 for the 44th
fortrading or speculative purposes. Further, the Company has a consecutive year. Cash dividends paid were $1.455 per share in
policy of only entering into contracts with parties that have at 2006, compared with dividends of $1.275 per share in 2005
least an “A” (or equivalent) credit rating. Thecounterparties to and $1.095 per share in 2004. Thedividends were distributed
these contracts are major financial institutions and there is no as follows:
significant concentration of exposure with any one counter-
2006 2005 2004
party. Management believes the risk of loss is remote.
First quarter $0.330 0.285 0.240
Total unused credit available to the Company approximates
Second quarter 0.375 0.330 0.285
$10.8 billion, including $9 billion of credit commitments,
ofwhich $3.75 billion expire September 27, 2007, $4 billion Third quarter 0.375 0.330 0.285
expire October 30, 2007 and $1.25 billion expire September 28, Fourth quarter 0.375 0.330 0.285
2011. Also included are $0.75 billion of uncommitted lines with Total $1.455 1.275 1.095
various banks worldwide that expire during 2007.
Totalborrowings at the end of 2006 and 2005 were $6.6 On January 2, 2007, the Board of Directors declared a regular cash
billion and $2.7 billion, respectively. The increase in borrowings dividend of $0.375 per share, payable on March 13, 2007, to share-
between 2005 and 2006 was a resultof financingthe acquisition holders of record as of February 27, 2007. The Company expects to
of the ConsumerHealthcare business of Pfizer Inc.in December continue the practice of paying regular cash dividends.
2006. In 2006, net debt (cash and current marketable securities
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 45Other Information Below are tables which show the progression of accrued
rebates, returns, promotions, reserve for doubtful accounts and
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
reserve for cash discounts by segment of business for theyears
Management’s discussion and analysis of results of operations
ended December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006.
and financial condition are based on the Company’s consolidated
financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with
CONSUMER SEGMENT
accountingprinciples generally accepted in the U.S. Theprepara-
tion of these financial statements requires that management Balance at Balance at
make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts Beginning Payments/ End
(Dollars in Millions) of Period Accruals Other of Period
reported for revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and other
2006
related disclosures. Actual results may or may not differ from
these estimates. TheCompany believes that the understanding Accrued rebates(1) $144 352 (332) 164
of certain key accountingpolicies and estimates are essential in Accrued returns 78 117 (103) 92
achieving more insight into the Company’s operating results and Accrued promotions 172 1,555 (1,516) 211
financial condition. Thesekey accountingpolicies include rev- Subtotal $394 2,024 (1,951) 467
enue recognition, incometaxes, legal and self insurance contin- Reserve for doubtful accounts 35 10 (3) 42
gencies, valuation of long-lived assets, assumptions used to
Reserve for cash discounts 13 176 (174) 15
determine the amounts recorded forpensions and other
Total $442 2,210 (2,128) 524
employee benefitplans and accountingfor stock options.
2005
Revenue Recognition:TheCompany recognizes revenue from Accrued rebates(1) $110 635 (601) 144
product sales when goods are shipped or delivered and title and
Accrued returns 58 129 (109) 78
risk of loss pass to the customer. Provisions for certain rebates,
Accrued promotions 176 1,417 (1,421) 172
sales incentives, trade promotions, coupons, product returns and
Subtotal $344 2,181 (2,131) 394
discounts to customers are accounted for as reductions in sales
Reserve for doubtful accounts 37 3 (5) 35
in thesame period the related sales are recorded.
Product discounts granted are based on the terms of Reserve for cash discounts 13 286 (286) 13
arrangements with direct, indirect and other market participants, Total $394 2,470 (2,422) 442
as well as market conditions, includingprices charged by com-
(1)Includes reserve for customerrebates of$54 million at December 31, 2006 and $33
petitors. Rebates, the largest being the Medicaid rebate provi- million at January 1, 2006, recorded as a contra asset.
sion, are estimated based on sales terms, historical experience,
trend analysis and projected market conditions in the various PHARMACEUTICAL SEGMENT
markets served.TheCompany evaluates market conditions for
Balance at Balance at
products or groups of products primarily through the analysis of
Beginning Payments/ End
wholesaler and other third party sell-through and market (Dollars in Millions) of Period Accruals Other of Period
research data, as well as internally generated information. 2006
Sales returns are generally estimated and recorded based Accrued rebates(1) $1,119 2,857 (2,743) 1,233
onhistorical sales and returns information. Products that exhibit Accrued returns 287 67 (30) 324
unusual sales or return patterns due to dating, competition
Accrued promotions 160 625 (580) 205
orother marketing matters are specifically investigated and
Subtotal $1,566 3,549 (3,353) 1,762
analyzed as part of the accountingfor sales return accruals.
Reserve for doubtful accounts 36 0 (6) 30
Sales returns allowances represent a reserve for products
Reserve for cash discounts 29 503 (503) 29
that may be returned due to expiration, destruction in the field,
or in specific areas, product recall. Thereturns reserve is based Total $1,631 4,052 (3,862) 1,821
on historical return trends by product and by market as a percent 2005
to gross sales.
Accrued rebates(1) $1,489 2,604(2) (2,974) 1,119
Promotional programs,such as product listing allowances
Accrued returns 265 31 (9) 287
and cooperative advertising arrangements, are recorded in the
Accrued promotions 217 540 (597) 160
year incurred. Continuingpromotional programs include
Subtotal $1,971 3,175 (3,580) 1,566
coupons andvolume-based sales incentive programs. The
redemption cost of consumer coupons is based on historical Reserve for doubtful accounts 59 (5) (18) 36
redemption experience by product and value. Volume-based Reserve for cash discounts 37 407 (415) 29
incentive programs are derived by estimating sales volumes for Total $2,067 3,577 (4,013) 1,631
the incentive period and are recorded as products are sold.
(1)Includes reserve for customerrebates of$227 million at December 31, 2006 and
Reasonablylikely changes to assumptions used to calculate $172 million at January 1, 2006, recorded as a contra asset.
the accruals for rebates, returns and promotions are not antici- (2)Includes $186 million related to previously estimated performance-based rebate
pated to have amaterial effect on the financial statements. The allowances in managed care contracts.
Company currently discloses the impact of changes to assump-
tions in thequarterly or annual filing in which there is a financial
statement impact.
46 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTMEDICALDEVICESAND DIAGNOSTICS SEGMENT insurers when recovery is probable. As appropriate, reserves
against these receivables are recorded for estimated amounts
Balance at Balance at
that may not be collected from third partyinsurers.
Beginning Payments/ End
(Dollars in Millions) of Period Accruals Other of Period
Long-Livedand Intangible Assets:TheCompany assesses
2006
changes in economic conditions andmakes assumptions regard-
Accrued rebates(1) $302 1,808 (1,816) 294
ing estimated future cash flows in evaluating the value of the
Accrued returns 170 26 (13) 183
Company’s property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangi-
Accrued promotions 56 104 (119) 41 ble assets. As these assumptions and estimates may change
Subtotal $528 1,938 (1,948) 518 over time, itmay or may not be necessary for theCompany to
Reserve for doubtful accounts 93 7 (12) 88 record impairment charges.
Reserve for cash discounts 15 188 (185) 18
Employee Benefit Plans:TheCompany sponsors various retire-
Total $636 2,133 (2,145) 624 ment and pension plans, including defined benefit, defined con-
2005 tribution and termination indemnity plans, that cover most
Accrued rebates(1) $263 2,062 (2,023) 302 employees worldwide. These plans are based on assumptions for
the discount rate, expected return on plan assets, expected
Accrued returns 134 225 (189) 170
salary increases and health care cost trend rates. See Note 13 for
Accrued promotions 73 155 (172) 56
further detail on these rates and the effect a rate change would
Subtotal $470 2,442 (2,384) 528
have on the Company’s results of operations. TheCompany
Reserve for doubtful accounts 110 21 (38) 93
adopted SFAS No. 158,Employer’s Accounting for Defined Pension
Reserve for cash discounts 12 168 (165) 15 and Other Postretirement Plans — an amendment of FASB State-
Total $592 2,631 (2,587) 636 ments No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R).This statement requires the
recognition of the fundedstatus of a benefit plan in the state-
(1)Includes reserve for customerrebates of$277 million at December 31, 2006 and
$266 million at January 1, 2006, recorded as a contra asset. ment of financial position, and that changes in the funded status
in theyear in which the changes occur be recognized through
The Company also earns service revenue for co-promotion of cer- other comprehensive income(OCI), net of tax.
tain products. For all years presented, service revenues were less
Stock Options:During the fiscal first quarter of 2006, the Com-
than 2% of total revenues and are included in salestocustomers.
pany adopted SFAS No. 123(R),Share Based Payment.TheCom-
Income Taxes:Incometaxes are recorded based on amounts pany has applied the modified retrospective transition method to
refundable or payable for thecurrent year and include the results implement SFAS No. 123(R). Previously reported financial state-
of any difference between U.S. GAAP accountingandU.S. tax ments have been restated in accordance with the provisions of
reporting, recorded as deferred tax assetsor liabilities. TheCom- SFAS No. 123(R). See Note 10 for further information regarding
pany estimates deferred tax assetsand liabilities based on cur- stock options.
rent tax regulations and rates. Changes in tax laws and rates may
affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future. NEWACCOUNTING STANDARDS
Management believes that changes in these estimates wouldnot In December 2004, the Financial AccountingStandards Board
result in a material effecton theCompany’s results of operations, (FASB) issued SFAS No. 123(R),Share Based Payment. This state-
cash flows or financial position. ment establishes standards for the accountingfor transactions in
In 2005, the Company repatriated $10.8 billion of undistrib- which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods and
uted international earnings in accordance with the American services. It focuses primarily on accountingfor transactions in
Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA), and recorded a tax charge of which an entity obtains employee services in share-based pay-
$789 million during thefiscal fourth quarter of 2004. During the ment transactions (such as employee stock options and
fiscal second quarter of 2005, the Company recorded a taxben- restricted stock units). Thestatement requires the measurement
efitof $225 million, due to the reversal of the tax liability previ- of the cost of employee services received in exchange for an
ously recorded during the fiscal fourth quarter of 2004, award of equity instruments (such as employee stock options
associated with a technical correction made to the AJCA in May and restricted stock units) at fair value on the grant date. That
2005. AtDecember 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006, the cumula- cost will be recognized over the period during which an
tive amount of undistributed international earnings were approx- employee is required to provide services in exchange for the
imately $17.9billion and $11.9billion, respectively. TheCompany award (the requisite service period). TheCompany adopted this
intends to continue to reinvest its undistributed international statement in the fiscal first quarter of 2006, applying the modi-
earnings to expand its international operations; therefore, no U.S. fied retrospective transition method. Previously reported finan-
tax expense has been recorded to cover the undistributed por- cial statements have been restated to reflect the adoption of
tion not intended forrepatriation. SFAS No. 123(R).
Legaland SelfInsurance Contingencies:TheCompany records
accruals for various contingencies including legal proceedings
and product liability cases as these arise in the normal course of
business. Theaccruals are based on management’s judgment as
to the probability of losses, opinions of legal counsel and, where
applicable, actuarially determined estimates. Additionally, the
Company records insurance receivable amounts from third party
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 47TheCompany implemented SFAS 151,Inventory Costs, an ECONOMIC AND MARKET FACTORS
amendment of ARB No. 43in thefiscal first quarter of 2006. The Johnson & Johnson is aware that its products are used in an environ-
adoption of this statement did not have amaterial effect on the ment where,formore than a decade, policymakers, consumers and
Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. businesses have expressed concerns abouttherising cost of health
In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation 48(FIN care.In response to these concerns, Johnson & Johnson has a long
48),Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an interpretation standing policy of pricing products responsibly. Forthe period 1996–
of FASB Statement No. 109. This interpretation prescribes a recog- 2006,in the United States,the weighted average compound annual
nition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial growth rate ofJohnson & Johnson net price increases forhealth care
statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken products (prescription and over-the-counter drugs,hospitalandpro-
or expected to be taken in a tax return. Theinterpretation also fessional products) was below the U.S. ConsumerPriceIndex (CPI).
provides guidance on derecognition, classification and other Inflation rates, even though moderate in many parts of the
matters. FIN 48 is effective for thefiscal year 2007 and the worldduring 2006, continue to have an effect on worldwide
Company will adopt it accordingly. TheCompany is assessing economies and, consequently, on the way companies operate.
the impact of the adoption of FIN 48 and currently does not Inthe face of increasing costs, the Company strives to maintain
believe that the adoption will have a material effect on its results its profit margins through cost reduction programs, productivity
of operations, cash flows or financial position. improvements and periodic price increases. TheCompany
In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial facesvarious worldwide health care changes that may result
Accounting Standards No. 157,Fair Value Measurements.This inpricing pressures that include health care costcontainment
statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measur- and government legislation relating to sales, promotions
ing fair valuein generally accepted accounting principles, and andreimbursement.
expands disclosures about fair valuemeasurements. The state- TheCompany also operates in an environment which has
ment is effective in the fiscal first quarter of 2008 and the Com- becomeincreasingly hostileto intellectual property rights.
pany will adopt thestatement at that time. The Company believes Generic drugfirms have filed Abbreviated New Drug Applica-
that the adoption of SFAS No. 157 will not have a material effect tions seeking to market generic forms of most of the Company’s
on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. key pharmaceutical products, prior to expiration of the applicable
In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial patents covering those products. In the event the Company is not
AccountingStandards No. 158,Employer’s Accounting for Defined successful in defending the patent claims challenged in Abbrevi-
Pensionand Other Postretirement Plans — an amendment of FASB ated New Drug Application filings, the generic firms will then
Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R).This statement requires the introduce generic versions of the product at issue, resulting in
recognition of the fundedstatus of a benefit plan in the state- the potential for substantial market share and revenue losses for
ment of financial position. It also requires the recognition as a that product. For further information see thediscussion on “Liti-
component of other comprehensive income(OCI), net of tax, of gation Against Filers of Abbreviated NewDrug Applications” in
the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise Note 18.
during the period butare not recognized as components of net
periodic benefit cost pursuant to statements 87 or 106. The LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
statement also has new provisions regarding the measurement TheCompany is involved in numerous product liability cases in
date as well as certain disclosure requirements. Thestatement the United States, many of which concern adverse reactions to
was effective at fiscal year end 2006 and the Company adopted drugs and medical devices. Thedamages claimed are substan-
the statement at that time. tial, and while the Company is confident of the adequacy of
In September 2006, the SEC issued Staff Accounting thewarnings and instructions for use which accompany such
Bulletin (SAB) 108, which expresses the Staff’s views regarding products, it is not feasible to predictthe ultimate outcomeof
the process of quantifying financial statement misstatements. litigation. However, the Company believes that if any liability
Thebulletin was effective at fiscal year end 2006. Theimple- results from such cases, it willbe substantially covered by
mentation of this bulletin had no impact on the Company’s existing amounts accrued in the Company’s balance sheet
results of operations, cash flows or financial position. underitsself-insurance program and by third party product
Thefollowing accountingpronouncements became liability insurance.
effective in 2005 and did nothave a material impact on the TheCompany is also involved in anumber of patent, trade-
Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position: mark and other lawsuits incidental to its business. Theultimate
•FIN 47:Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement legal and financial liability of the Company in respect to all
Obligations— an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143. claims, lawsuits and proceedings referred to above cannot be
•SFAS 153:Exchanges of Non-monetary Assets, an amendment of estimated with any certainty. However, in the Company’s opin-
APB 29. ion, based on its examination of these matters, its experience
Thefollowing accountingpronouncements became effective in todate and discussions with counsel, theultimate outcome
2004 and did not have a material impact on the Company’s results of oflegal proceedings, net of liabilities already accrued in the
operations, cash flows or financial position: Company’s balance sheet, is not expected to have a material
•EITF Issue 02-14:Whether an Investor should apply the Equity adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, although
Method of Accounting to Investments other than Common Stock. theresolution in any reporting period of one or more of these
•EITF Issue 04-1:Accounting for Preexisting Relationships between matters couldhave a significantimpact on the Company’s results
the Parties to a Business Combination. of operations and cash flows for that period.
See Note 18 for further information regarding legal
proceedings.
48 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTCOMMON STOCK MARKET PRICES
TheCompany’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol JNJ. Thecomposite market price
ranges for Johnson &Johnson common stock during 2006 and
2005 were:
________2_0__0_6________ ________2_0_0__5________
High Low High Low
First quarter $63.10 56.70 68.68 61.20
Second quarter 62.00 57.32 69.99 64.43
Third quarter 65.13 59.68 65.35 61.65
Fourth quarter 69.41 64.50 64.60 59.76
Year-end close $66.02 60.10
Cautionary Factors That May Affect
Future Results
This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical
orcurrent facts and anticipate results based on management’s
plans that are subject to uncertainty. Forward-looking state-
ments may be identified by the use of words like “plans,”
“expects,” “will,” “anticipates,” “estimates” and other words of
similar meaning in conjunction with, amongotherthings, discus-
sions of future operations, financial performance, the Company’s
strategyfor growth, product development, regulatory approval,
market position and expenditures.
Forward-looking statements are based on current expecta-
tions of future events. TheCompany cannot guarantee that
anyforward-looking statement will be accurate, although the
Company believes that ithas been reasonable in its expectations
and assumptions. Investors should realize that if underlying
assumptions prove inaccurate or that unknown risks or uncer-
tainties materialize, actual results couldvary materially from the
Company’s expectations and projections. Investors are therefore
cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking
statements. TheCompany does not undertake to update any for-
ward-looking statements as a result of new information or future
events or developments.
Risks and uncertainties include general industry conditions
and competition; economic conditions, such as interest rate and
currency exchange rate fluctuations; technological advances,
new products andpatents attained by competitors; challenges
inherent in new product development, including obtaining regu-
latory approvals; challenges to patents; U.S. and foreign health
care reforms andgovernmental laws and regulations; trends
toward health care costcontainment; increased scrutiny of the
health care industry by government agencies; product efficacy or
safety concerns resulting in product recalls or regulatory action.
TheCompany’s report on Form 10-K for theyear ended
December 31, 2006 includes, in Exhibit 99, a discussion of
additional factors that couldcause actual results to differ from
expectations. TheCompany notes these factors as permitted
bythe Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 49Consolidated Balance Sheets Johnson &Johnson and Subsidiaries
At December 31,2006 and January 1, 2006 (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Data) (Note 1) 2006 2005
Assets
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents (Notes 1, 14 and 15) $ 4,083 16,055
Marketable securities (Notes 1, 14 and 15) 1 83
Accounts receivable trade, less allowances for doubtful accounts $160 (2005, $164) 8,712 7,010
Inventories (Notes 1 and 2) 4,889 3,959
Deferred taxes on income(Note 8) 2,094 1,931
Prepaid expenses and other receivables 3,196 2,442
Total current assets 22,975 31,480
Marketable securities, non-current (Notes 1, 14 and 15) 16 20
Property, plant and equipment, net (Notes 1 and 3) 13,044 10,830
Intangible assets, net (Notes 1 and 7) 15,348 6,185
Goodwill, net (Notes 1 and 7) 13,340 5,990
Deferred taxes on income(Note 8) 3,210 1,138
Other assets (Note 5) 2,623 3,221
Total assets $70,556 58,864
Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity
Current liabilities
Loans andnotes payable (Note 6) $ 4,579 668
Accounts payable 5,691 4,315
Accrued liabilities 4,587 3,529
Accrued rebates, returns and promotions 2,189 2,017
Accrued salaries, wages and commissions 1,391 1,166
Accrued taxes on income 724 940
Total current liabilities 19,161 12,635
Long-term debt (Note 6) 2,014 2,017
Deferred taxes on income(Note 8) 1,319 211
Employee related obligations (Notes 5 and 13) 5,584 3,065
Other liabilities 3,160 2,226
Total liabilities 31,238 20,154
Shareholders’ equity
Preferred stock—without par value
(authorized and unissued 2,000,000 shares) — —
Common stock—par value $1.00 per share (Note 20)
(authorized 4,320,000,000 shares; issued 3,119,842,000 shares) 3,120 3,120
Accumulated other comprehensive income(Note 12) (2,118) (755)
Retained earnings 49,290 42,310
50,292 44,675
Less: common stock held in treasury, at cost (Note 20)
(226,612,000 shares and 145,364,000 shares) 10,974 5,965
Total shareholders’ equity 39,318 38,710
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $70,556 58,864
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
50 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTConsolidated Statements of Earnings Johnson &Johnson and Subsidiaries
(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Figures) (Note 1) 2006 2005 2004
Sales to customers $53,324 50,514 47,348
Cost of products sold 15,057 14,010 13,474
Gross profit 38,267 36,504 33,874
Selling, marketing and administrative expenses 17,433 17,211 16,174
Research expense 7,125 6,462 5,344
Purchased in-process research and development (Note 17) 559 362 18
Interest income (829) (487) (195)
Interest expense, net of portion capitalized (Note 3) 63 54 187
Other (income) expense, net (671) (214) 15
23,680 23,388 21,543
Earnings before provision for taxes on income 14,587 13,116 12,331
Provision for taxes on income(Note 8) 3,534 3,056 4,151
Net earnings $11,053 10,060 8,180
Basic net earningspershare (Notes 1 and 19) $ 3.76 3.38 2.76
Diluted net earnings per share (Notes 1 and 19) $ 3.73 3.35 2.74
SSeeee NNootteess ttoo CCoonnssoolliiddaatteedd FFiinnaanncciiaall SSttaatteemmeennttss
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 51Consolidated Statements of Equity Johnson &Johnson and Subsidiaries
Note Receivable Accumulated
From Employee Other Treasury
Comprehensive Retained Stock Ownership Comprehensive Common Stock Stock
(Dollars in Millions) (Note 1) Total Income Earnings Plan (ESOP) Income Issued Amount Amount
Balance, December 28, 2003 $27,464 31,098 (18) (590) 3,120 (6,146)
Net earnings 8,180 8,180 8,180
Cash dividendspaid (3,251) (3,251)
Employee stock compensation
and stock option plans 1,339 (64) 1,403
Conversion of subordinated debentures 105 (18) 123
Repurchase of common stock (1,384) (1,384)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
Currency translation adjustment 268 268 268
Unrealized gains on securities 59 59 59
Employee benefit plans (282) (282) (282)
Gains on derivatives & hedges 30 30 30
Reclassification adjustment (10)
Total comprehensive income 8,245
Note receivable from ESOP 7 7
Balance, January 2, 2005 $32,535 35,945 (11) (515) 3,120 (6,004)
Net earnings 10,060 10,060 10,060
Cash dividendspaid (3,793) (3,793)
Employee stock compensation
and stock option plans 1,485 27 1,458
Conversion of subordinated debentures 369 (132) 501
Repurchase of common stock (1,717) 203 (1,920)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
Currency translation adjustment (415) (415) (415)
Unrealized losses on securities (16) (16) (16)
Employee benefit plans 26 26 26
Gains on derivatives & hedges 165 165 165
Reclassification adjustment (15)
Total comprehensive income 9,805
Note receivable from ESOP 11 11
Balance, January 1, 2006 $38,710 42,310 — (755) 3,120 (5,965)
Net earnings 11,053 11,053 11,053
Cash dividendspaid (4,267) (4,267)
Employee compensation
and stock option plans 1,858 181 1,677
Conversion of subordinated debentures 26 (10) 36
Repurchase of common stock (6,722) (6,722)
Other 23 23
Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
Currency translation adjustment 362 362 362
Unrealized losses on securities (9) (9) (9)
Employee benefit plans (1,710) (34) (1,710)
Losses on derivatives & hedges (6) (6) (6)
Reclassification adjustment (9)
Total comprehensive income 11,357
Balance, December 31, 2006 $39,318 49,290 — (2,118) 3,120 (10,974)
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
52 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTConsolidated Statements of Cash Flows Johnson &Johnson and Subsidiaries
(Dollars in Millions) (Note 1) 2006 2005 2004
Cash flows from operating activities
Net earnings $ 11,053 10,060 8,180
Adjustments to reconcilenet earnings to cash flows:
Depreciation andamortization of property and intangibles 2,177 2,093 2,124
Stock basedcompensation 659 540 507
Purchased in-process research and development 559 362 18
Deferred tax provision (1,168) (235) (676)
Accounts receivable allowances (14) (31) 3
Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects fromacquisitions:
Increase in accounts receivable (699) (568) (111)
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (210) (396) 11
Increase/(decrease) in accounts payable and accrued liabilities 1,750 (911) 607
(Increase)/decrease in other current and non-current assets (269) 542 (437)
Increase in other current and non-current liabilities 410 343 863
Net cash flows from operating activities 14,248 11,799 11,089
Cash flows from investing activities
Additions to property, plant and equipment (2,666) (2,632) (2,175)
Proceeds from the disposal of assets 511 154 237
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired (Note 17) (18,023) (987) (580)
Purchases ofinvestments (467) (5,660) (11,617)
Sales of investments 426 9,187 12,061
Other (primarily intangibles) (72) (341) (273)
Net cash used by investing activities (20,291) (279) (2,347)
Cash flows from financingactivities
Dividends to shareholders (4,267) (3,793) (3,251)
Repurchase of common stock (6,722) (1,717) (1,384)
Proceeds from short-term debt 6,385 1,215 514
Retirement of short-term debt (2,633) (732) (1,291)
Proceeds from long-term debt 6 6 17
Retirement of long-term debt (13) (196) (395)
Proceeds from the exercise of stock options/excess tax benefits 1,135 774 684
Net cash used by financing activities (6,109) (4,443) (5,106)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 180 (225) 190
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (11,972) 6,852 3,826
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year (Note 1) 16,055 9,203 5,377
Cash and cash equivalents, endof year (Note 1) $ 4,083 16,055 9,203
Supplemental cash flow data
Cash paid during the year for:
Interest $ 143 151 222
Incometaxes 4,250 3,429 3,880
Supplemental schedule of noncash investing and
financing activities
Treasury stock issued for employee compensation
and stock option plans, net of cash proceeds $ 622 818 802
Conversion of debt 26 369 105
Acquisitions
Fair value of assets acquired $ 19,306 1,128 595
Fair value of liabilities assumed (1,283) (141) (15)
Net cash paid for acquisitions $ 18,023 987 580
SSeeee NNootteess ttoo CCoonnssoolliiddaatteedd FFiinnaanncciiaall SSttaatteemmeennttss
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies applying the modified retrospective transition method.
PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION Previously reported financial statements have been restated to
Theconsolidated financial statements include the accounts of reflect the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). (See Note 10.)
Johnson &Johnson and subsidiaries (the“Company”). Inter- The Company implemented SFAS 151,Inventory Costs,
company accounts and transactions are eliminated. anamendmentof ARB No. 43in the fiscal first quarter of 2006. The
adoption of this statement did not have a material effect on the
DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY AND BUSINESS SEGMENTS Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position.
TheCompany has approximately 122,200 employees worldwide In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation 48[FIN
engaged in the research and development, manufacture and sale 48],Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an interpretation
of abroad range of products in thehealth care field. TheCom- of FASB Statement No. 109. This interpretation prescribes a recog-
pany conducts business in virtually all countries of the world and nition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial
itsprimary focus is on products related to human health statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken
andwell-being. or expected to be taken in a tax return. Theinterpretation also
TheCompany is organized into three business segments: provides guidance on derecognition, classification and other
Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnos- matters. FIN 48 is effective for thefiscal year 2007 and the
tics. TheConsumer segment manufactures and markets a broad Company will adopt accordingly. TheCompany is assessing the
range of products usedin the baby and kids care, skin care, impact of the adoption of FIN 48 and currently does not believe
oralcare, woundcare and women’s health care fields, as well as that the adoption will have a material effect on its results of
nutritional and over-the-counter pharmaceutical products. operations, cash flows or financial position.
Theseproducts are marketed principally to the general public In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial
and sold both to wholesalers and directly to independentand Accounting Standards No. 157,Fair Value Measurements.This
chain retail outlets throughout the world. ThePharmaceutical statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measur-
segment includes products in thefollowing therapeutic areas: ing fair valuein generally accepted accounting principles, and
anti-fungal, anti-infective, cardiovascular, contraceptive, derma- expands disclosures about fair valuemeasurements. The state-
tology, gastrointestinal, hematology, immunology, neurology, ment is effective in the fiscal first quarter of 2008 and the Com-
oncology, pain management, psychotropic (central nervous sys- pany will adopt thestatement at that time. The Company believes
tem), urology and virology areas. Theseproducts are distributed that the adoption of SFAS No. 157 will not have a material effect
directly to retailers, wholesalers and health care professionals for on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position.
prescription use by the general public. TheMedical Devices and In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial
Diagnostics segment includes a broad range ofproducts used AccountingStandards No. 158,Employer’s Accounting for Defined
principally in the professional fields byphysicians, nurses, thera- Pensionand Other Postretirement Plans — an amendment of FASB
pists, hospitals, diagnostic laboratories and clinics. Theseprod- Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R).This statement requires the
ucts includeCordis’ circulatory disease management products; recognition of the fundedstatus of a benefit plan in the state-
DePuy’s orthopaedic joint reconstruction andspinal care prod- ment of financial position. It also requires the recognition as a
ucts; Ethicon’s woundcare and women’s health products; component of other comprehensive income(OCI), net of tax, of
Ethicon Endo-Surgery’s minimally invasive surgical products; the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise
LifeScan’s blood glucose monitoring andinsulin delivery during the period butare not recognized as components of net
products; Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics’ professional diagnostic periodic benefit cost pursuant to statements 87 or 106. The
products andVision Care’s disposable contact lenses. statement also has new provisions regarding the measurement
date as well as certain disclosure requirements. Thestatement
NEWACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS was effective at fiscal year end 2006 and the Company adopted
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R),Share the statement at that time. (See Note 13.)
Based Payment.This statement establishes standards for the In September 2006, the SEC issued Staff Accounting
accountingfor transactions in which an entity exchanges its Bulletin (SAB) 108, which expresses the Staff’s views regarding
equity instruments for goods andservices. It focuses primarily the process of quantifying financial statement misstatements.
on accountingfor transactions in which an entity obtains Thebulletin was effective at fiscal year end 2006. Theimple-
employee services in share-based payment transactions (such mentation of this bulletin had no impact on the Company’s
as employee stock options and restricted stock units). Thestate- results of operations, cash flows or financial position.
ment requires the measurement of the cost of employee services Thefollowing accountingpronouncements became
received in exchange for an award of equity instruments (such as effective in 2005 and did nothave a material impact on the
employee stock options and restricted stock units) at fair value Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position:
on the grant date. That cost will be recognized over the period •FIN 47:Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
during which an employee is required to provide services in Obligations— an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143.
exchange for the award (the requisite service period). TheCom- •SFAS 153:Exchanges of Non-monetary Assets, an amendment of
pany adopted this statement in the fiscal first quarter of 2006, APB 29.
54 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTThe following accounting pronouncements became effective products or groups of products primarily through the analysis of
in 2004 and did not have a material impact on the Company’s wholesaler and other third party sell-through and market
results of operations, cash flows or financial position: research data, as well as internally generated information.
•EITF Issue 02-14:Whether an Investor should apply the Equity Sales returns are generally estimated and recorded based on
Method of Accounting to Investments other than Common Stock. historicalsales and returns information. Products that exhibit
•EITF Issue 04-1:Accounting for Preexisting Relationships between unusual sales or returnpatterns due to dating, competition or
the Parties to a Business Combination. other marketing matters are specifically investigated and analyzed
aspart ofthe accounting forsales returnaccruals. Sales returns
CASH EQUIVALENTS allowancesrepresent a reserve for products that may bereturned
TheCompany considers securities with maturities of three due to expiration, destruction in the field, or in specific areas, prod-
months or less, when purchased, to becashequivalents. uct recall. The returns reserve is based on historicalreturn trends
by product and by market as a percent togross sales.
INVESTMENTS Promotional programs,such as product listing allowances
Short-term marketable securities are carried at cost, which and cooperative advertising arrangements, are recorded in the
approximates fair value. Investments classified as available-for- year incurred. Continuingpromotional programs include
sale are carried at estimated fair value with unrealized gains and coupons andvolume-based sales incentive programs. The
losses recorded as a component of accumulated other compre- redemption cost of consumer coupons is based on historical
hensive income. Long-term debt securities that the Company has redemption experience by product and value. Volume-based
the ability and intent to hold until maturity are carried at amortized incentive programs are based on the estimated sales volumes for
cost, which also approximates fair value. Management determines the incentive period and are recorded as products are sold. The
the appropriate classification of its investment in debt and equity Company also earns service revenue for co-promotion of certain
securities at the time of purchase and re-evaluates such determi- products andincludes it in sales tocustomers.
nation at each balance sheet date. TheCompany periodically
reviews its investments in equity securities for impairment and SHIPPING AND HANDLING
adjusts these investments to their fair value when a decline in Shipping and handling costs incurred were $693 million, $736 mil-
market value is deemed to be otherthan temporary. lion and $679million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and
are included in selling, marketing and administrative expense. The
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND DEPRECIATION amount of revenue received for shipping andhandling is less than
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. The 0.5%of sales to customers for all periods presented.
Companyutilizes the straight-line methodof depreciation
overthe estimated useful lives of the assets: INVENTORIES
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market determined
Building and building equipment 20-40years
by the first-in, first-out method.
Land and leasehold improvements 10-20years
Machinery and equipment 2-13years
GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Effective at the beginningof fiscal year 2002 in accordance with
TheCompany capitalizes certain computer software and
SFAS No. 142, the Company discontinuedthe amortization relat-
development costs, included in machinery andequipment, when
ing to all existing goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets,
incurred in connection with developing orobtainingcomputer
which are non-amortizable. SFAS No. 142 requires thatgoodwill
software for internal use. Capitalized software costs are amor-
and non-amortizable intangible assets be assessed annually for
tized over the estimated useful lives ofthe software, which
impairment. TheCompany completed the annual impairment
generally range from 3 to 5 years.
test for 2006 in thefiscal fourth quarter and no impairment was
TheCompany reviews long-lived assets to assess recover-
determined. Future impairment tests will beperformed annually
ability using undiscounted cash flows. When necessary, charges
in thefiscal fourth quarter, or sooner if a triggering eventoccurs.
for impairments of long-lived assets are recorded for theamount
Intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be
bywhich the present value of future cash flows is less than the
amortized over their useful lives, and are reviewed for impair-
carrying value of these assets.
ment when warranted by economic conditions. See Note 7 for
further details on Intangible Assets.
REVENUE RECOGNITION
TheCompany recognizes revenue from product sales when the
goods are shipped or delivered and title and riskof loss pass to FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
TheCompany follows the provisions of SFAS No. 133,Accounting
the customer. Provisions for certain rebates, sales incentives,
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,as amended.
trade promotions, product returns and discounts to customers
SFASNo. 133 requires that all derivative instruments be recorded
are accounted for as reductions in sales inthe same period the
on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of
related sales are recorded.
derivatives are recorded each period in current earnings or other
Product discounts granted are based on the terms of
comprehensive income, depending on whether thederivative is
arrangements with direct, indirect and other market participants,
designated as part of a hedge transaction, and ifso, the type of
as well as market conditions, includingprices charged by com-
hedge transaction.
petitors. Rebates, the largest being the Medicaid rebate provi-
sion, are estimated based on sales terms, historical experience,
trend analysis and projected market conditions in the various
markets served.TheCompany evaluates market conditions for
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 55The Company uses forward exchange contracts to manage ADVERTISING
its exposure to the variability of cash flows, primarily related to Costs associated with advertising are expensed in the year incurred
theforeign exchange rate changes of future intercompany prod- and are included in the selling, marketing and administrative
uct and third party purchases of raw materials denominated in expenses. Advertising expenses worldwide, which arecomprised of
foreign currency. The Company also uses currency swaps to man- television, radio, print media and Internetadvertising, were $1.9 bil-
age currency risk primarily related to borrowings. Both of these lion in 2006, $2.1 billion in 2005 and $1.9 billion in 2004.
types of derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges. Addition-
ally, theCompany uses forward exchange contracts tooffset its INCOME TAXES
exposure to certain foreign currency assets and liabilities. These TheCompany intends to continue to reinvest its undistributed
forward exchange contracts are not designated as hedges and, international earnings to expand its international operations;
therefore, changes in the fair values of these derivatives are therefore, no U.S. tax expense has been recorded to cover the
recognized in earnings,thereby offsetting the current earnings undistributed portion not intended forrepatriation. AtDecember
effect of the related foreign currency assets andliabilities. 31, 2006 andJanuary1, 2006, the cumulative amount of undis-
The designation as a cash flow hedge is made at the entrance tributed international earnings were approximately $17.9billion
date into the derivative contract.At inception, all derivatives are and $11.9 billion, respectively.
expected to be highly effective. Changes in the fair valueof a Deferred incometaxes are recognized for tax consequences
derivative that is designated as a cash flow hedgeand is highly oftemporary differences by applying enacted statutory taxrates,
effective are recorded in accumulated othercomprehensive applicable to future years, to differences between thefinancial
income until the underlying transactionaffects earnings, and are reporting and the tax basis of existing assets andliabilities.
then reclassified to earnings in the same account as the hedged
transaction. The fair valueof a derivative instrument (i.e. forward NET EARNINGS PER SHARE
foreign exchange contract, currency swap) is the aggregation, by Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net earnings
currency, of all future cash flows discounted to its present valueat available to common shareholders by the weighted average
prevailingmarket interest rates and subsequently converted to number of common shares outstanding for theperiod. Diluted
theU.S. dollar at the current spot foreign exchange rate. earnings per share reflects the potential dilution thatcouldoccur
On an ongoing basis, the Company assesses whether each if securities were exercised or converted into common stock
derivative continues to behighly effective in offsetting changes using the treasury stock method.
in thecashflows of hedged items. If and when a derivative isno
longer expected to behighly effective, hedge accountingisdis- USE OF ESTIMATES
continued. Hedge ineffectiveness, if any, is included in current The preparation of consolidated financial statements in
period earnings, and was insignificant in 2006, 2005 and 2004. conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
The Company documents all relationships between hedged U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions
items and derivatives. The overall risk management strategy that affect the amounts reported. Estimates are used when
includes reasons for undertakinghedge transactions and entering accounting for sales discounts, rebates, allowances and incen-
into derivatives. The objectives of this strategy are: (1)minimize tives, product liabilities, income taxes, depreciation, amortization,
foreign currency exposure’s impact on the Company’s financial employee benefits, contingencies and intangible asset and liabil-
performance; (2) protect the Company’s cash flow from adverse ity valuations. For instance, in determining annual pension and
movements in foreign exchange rates;(3) ensure the appropriate- post-employment benefit costs, the Company estimates the rate
ness of financial instruments;and (4)manage the enterprise risk of return on plan assets,and the cost of future health care bene-
associated with financialinstitutions. fits. Actual results may or may not differ from those estimates.
PRODUCT LIABILITY ANNUALCLOSING DATE
Accruals for product liability claims are recorded, on an undis- TheCompany follows the concept of a fiscal year which ends onthe
counted basis, when itis probable that a liability has been incurred Sunday nearestto theend of the month of December. Normally
and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated based each fiscal year consists of 52 weeks, but every five orsix years, the
on existing information.The accruals are adjusted periodically as fiscal year consists of 53weeks, as was the case in2004.
additional information becomes available. As a resultof cost and
availability factors, effective November 1, 2005, the Company
2. Inventories
ceased purchasing third party product liability insurance. Based on
At the end of 2006 and 2005, inventories were comprised of:
theavailability of prior coverage, receivables for insurance recover-
ies related to product liability claims are recorded onanundis- (Dollars in Millions) 2006 2005
counted basis, when itis probable thata recovery will be realized. Raw materials and supplies $ 980 931
Goods in process 1,253 1,073
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Finished goods 2,656 1,955
Research and development expenses are expensed as incurred.
$4,889 3,959
Upfront andmilestone payments made to third parties in con-
nection with research and development collaborations are
expensed as incurred up to the point of regulatory approval. Pay-
ments made to third parties subsequent to regulatory approval
are capitalized and amortized over the remaining useful life of
the related product. Amounts capitalized for suchpayments are
included in other intangibles, net of accumulated amortization.
56 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORT3. Property, Plant and Equipment 6. Borrowings
At the end of 2006 and 2005, property, plant and equipment at Thecomponents of long-term debt are as follows:
costand accumulated depreciation were:
Effective Effective
(Dollars in Millions) 2006 2005 (Dollars in Millions) 2006 Rate% 2005 Rate%
Land and land improvements $ 611 502 3% Zero Coupon
Convertible Subordinated
Buildings and building equipment 7,347 5,875
Debentures due 2020 $ 182 3.00 202 3.00
Machinery and equipment 13,108 10,835
4.95% Debentures due 2033 500 4.95 500 4.95
Construction in progress 2,962 2,504
3.80% Debentures due 2013 500 3.82 500 3.82
24,028 19,716
6.95% Notes due 2029 293 7.14 293 7.14
Less accumulated depreciation 10,984 8,886
6.73% Debentures due 2023 250 6.73 250 6.73
$13,044 10,830
6.625% Notes due 2009 199 6.80 199 6.80
Industrial Revenue Bonds 29 5.21 31 3.90
TheCompany capitalizes interest expense as part of the cost of
Other 70 — 55 —
construction of facilities and equipment. Interest expense capi-
2,023 5.23(1) 2,030 5.18(1)
talized in 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $118 million, $111 million
Less current portion 9 13
and $136 million, respectively.
Depreciation expense, including the amortization of capital- $2,014 2,017
ized interest in 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $1.6 billion, $1.5 bil- (1)Weighted average effective rate.
lion and $1.5 billion, respectively.
Upon retirement or other disposal of property, plant and equip- The Company has access to substantialsources of funds at
ment, the cost and related amount of accumulated depreciation numerous banks worldwide. Total unused creditavailable to the
oramortization are eliminated from the asset and accumulated Company approximates $10.8 billion, including $9 billion of
depreciation accounts, respectively. The difference, if any, between creditcommitments, of which $3.75 billion expire September 27,
the net asset value and the proceeds is recorded inearnings. 2007, $4 billion expire October30, 2007 and$1.25 billion
expire September 28, 2011. Also included are $0.75 billion of
uncommitted lines with various banks worldwide that expire
4. Rental Expense and Lease Commitments
during 2007. Interestcharged on borrowings under the credit
Rentals of space, vehicles, manufacturing equipment and
line agreements is based on either bids provided by banks, the
officeand data processing equipment under operating leases
prime rate or London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR), plus
were approximately $285 million in 2006, $248million in 2005
applicable margins. Commitment fees under the agreementare
and $254 million in 2004.
not material.
Theapproximate minimum rental payments required under
TheCompany filed a shelf registration with the Securities
operating leases that have initial or remaining noncancelable
and Exchange Commission (SEC) that became effective Novem-
lease terms in excess of one year at December 31, 2006 are:
ber 13, 2006 which enables the Company to issue up to $10 bil-
After lion in debt securities and warrants to purchase debt securities.
(Dollars in Millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011 Total There was no debt issued during 2006 and the full amount
$187 162 137 115 98 150 849 remained available as of December 31, 2006.
On July 28, 2000, ALZA completed a private offering of the
Commitments under capitalleases are not significant.
3%Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Debentures, which
were issued at a price of $551.26 per $1,000 principal amount at
5. Employee Related Obligations maturity. At December 31, 2006 the outstanding 3% Debentures
At the end of 2006 and 2005, employee related obligations were: had a total principal amount at maturity of $272.5 million with a
yield to maturity of 3% per annum, computed on a semiannual
(Dollars in Millions) 2006 2005
bond equivalent basis. There are no periodic interest payments.
Pension benefits $2,380 1,264
Under the terms of the 3% debentures, holders are entitledto
Postretirement benefits 2,009 1,157 convert their debentures into approximately 15.0 million shares
Postemployment benefits 781 322 of Johnson & Johnson stock at a price of $40.102 per share.
Deferred compensation 631 511 Approximately 11.2 million shares have been issued as of Decem-
5,801 3,254 ber 31, 2006, due to voluntary conversions by note holders. At
Less current benefits payable 217 189 the option of the holder, the 3% Debentures may be repurchased
by the Company on July 28, 2008 or 2013, at a purchase price
Employee related obligations $5,584 3,065
equal to the issue price plus accreted original issue discount to
such purchase date. TheCompany, at its option, may elect to
Prepaid employee related obligations of $259 million and
deliver either Johnson & Johnson common stock or cash, or a
$1,218million for 2006 and 2005, respectively, are included in
combination of stock andcash, in the eventof repurchase ofthe
other assets on the consolidated balance sheet. Prepaid
3% Debentures. TheCompany, at its option, may also redeem
employee related obligations decreased significantly in 2006
any or all of the 3% Debentures after July 28, 2003 at the issue
due to the implementation of SFAS No. 158.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 57price plus accreted original issue discount. At December 31, Goodwillas of December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006, as allo-
2006 and January 1, 2006 the fair value based on quoted market cated by segment of business is as follows:
value of the 3% Debentures was $250.7 million and $260.6
Med Dev
million respectively.
(Dollars in Millions) Consumer Pharm and Diag Total
Short-term borrowings and current portion of long term
Goodwill at
debtamounted to $4.6 billion at the end of 2006, of which January 2, 2005 $1,160 832 3,871 5,863
$4.2billion was raised under the Commercial Paper Program.
Acquisitions — 71 194 265
Theremainder represents principally local borrowing by
Translation/other (70) (29) (39) (138)
international subsidiaries.
Goodwill at
Aggregate maturities of long-term obligations commencing
January 1,2006 $1,090 874 4,026 5,990
in 2007 are:
Acquisitions $6,720 — 533 7,253
After Translation/other 56 28 13 97
(Dollars in Millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011
Goodwill at
$9 9 240 9 6 1,750
December 31, 2006 $7,866 902 4,572 13,340
CERTAIN BUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS
Theweighted average amortization periods for patents and
A member of the Company’s Board of Directors is the Chief
trademarks and other intangible assets are 15 years and 27 years,
Executive Officer of a major bank. This bank has provided ser-
respectively. Theamortization expense of amortizable intangible
vices to theCompany, including providing a line of credit, for
assets for thefiscal years ended December 31, 2006, January 1,
which the payments made were not significant for either the
2006 and January 2, 2005 was $594 million, $521 million and
Company or the bank in 2006, 2005 or2004.
$603 million before tax,respectively. Certain patents and intan-
gibles were written down to fair value during fiscal years 2006,
2005, and 2004, with the resulting charge included in amortiza-
7. Intangible Assets and Goodwill
tion expense. Theestimated amortization expense for thefive
At the end of 2006 and 2005, the gross and net amounts of
succeeding years approximates $720million before tax,per year.
intangible assets and goodwill were:
Substantially all of the amortization expense is included in cost
(Dollars in Millions) 2006 2005 of products sold.
Trademarks (non-amortizable)—gross $ 6,609 1,400
Less accumulated amortization 134 134
8. Income Taxes
Trademarks (non-amortizable)—net $ 6,475 1,266
Theprovision for taxes on incomeconsists of:
Patents and trademarks—gross $ 5,282 4,128
Less accumulated amortization 1,695 1,370 (Dollars in Millions) 2006 2005 2004
Currently payable:
Patents and trademarks—net $ 3,587 2,758
U.S. taxes $3,625 2,181 3,654
Other intangibles—gross $ 6,923 3,544 International taxes 1,077 1,110 1,173
Less accumulated amortization 1,637 1,383 4,702 3,291 4,827
Other intangibles—net $ 5,286 2,161 Deferred:
Subtotal intangible assets—gross $18,814 9,072 U.S. taxes (726) 77 (212)
Less accumulated amortization 3,466 2,887 International taxes (442) (312) (464)
Subtotal intangible assets—net $15,348 6,185 (1,168) (235) (676)
$3,534 3,056 4,151
Goodwill—gross $14,075 6,703
Less accumulated amortization 735 713
Goodwill—net $13,340 5,990
Total intangible assets and goodwill—gross $32,889 15,775
Less accumulated amortization 4,201 3,600
Total intangible assets and goodwill—net $28,688 12,175
58 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTA comparison of incometax expense at the federal statutory rate 9. International Currency Translation
of 35% in 2006, 2005 and 2004, to the Company’s effective tax Fortranslation of its subsidiaries operating in non-U.S. dollar curren-
rate is as follows: cies, the Company has determined thatthe local currencies of its
international subsidiaries are the functional currencies except those
(Dollars in Millions) 2006 2005 2004
in highly inflationary economies, which are defined as those which
U.S. $ 8,110 6,949 7,489
have had compound cumulative rates of inflation of 100% or more
International 6,477 6,167 4,842
during the past three years, or where a substantial portion of its
Earnings before taxes cash flows are not in the local currency.
on income: $14,587 13,116 12,331
In consolidating international subsidiaries, balance sheet
Tax rates: currencyeffects are recorded as a component of accumulated
Statutory 35.0% 35.0 35.0 other comprehensive income. This equity account includes the
Puerto Rico and results of translating all balance sheet assets and liabilities at
Ireland operations (7.5) (7.3) (5.8) current exchange rates, except for those located in highly infla-
Research and orphan drug taxcredits (0.7) (0.7) (0.8) tionary economies that are reflected in operating results.
U.S. state and local 1.6 1.1 1.6 An analysis of the changes during 2006, 2005 and 2004 for
International subsidiaries foreign currency translation adjustments is included in Note 12.
excluding Ireland (3.5) (2.7) (1.7) Net currency transaction and translation gains and losses
Repatriation of included in other (income) expense, net were losses of $18
International earnings — (1.7) 6.4 million, $32 million, and $38 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
IPR&D 0.6 0.9 — respectively.
All other (1.3) (1.3) (1.0)
Effective tax rate 24.2% 23.3 33.7 10. Common Stock,Stock Option Plans and
StockCompensation Agreements
The Company hadsubsidiaries operating in Puerto Rico under STOCK OPTIONS
various tax incentive grants. Also, theU.S. possessions tax credit, At December 31, 2006 the Company had 17 stock-based com-
which expired in 2006, applies to certain operations in Puerto pensation plans. Theshares outstanding are for contracts under
Rico. In addition, the Company had subsidiaries manufacturing in the Company’s 1995 and 2000 Stock Option Plans, the 2005
Ireland under an incentive tax rate. The increase in the 2006 tax Long-Term Incentive Plan, the 2000 Stock Compensation Plan,
rate was mainlydue to the reversal of atax liability of $225 million the 1997 Non-Employee Director’s Plan and the Centocor, Inno-
reported in the 2005 tax provision which resulted from a technical vasive Devices, ALZA, Inverness and Scios Stock Option Plans.
correction to the American Jobs CreationAct of 2004. This was During 2006, no options or restricted stock were granted under
partiallyoffset by a benefit reported in 2006 forthe reversal of tax any of these plans exceptthe 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
allowances of $134 million associated with the Tibotec business. Thecompensation cost recorded under SFAS No. 123(R)
Temporary differences and carry forwards for 2006 and that has been charged against incomefor these plans was
2005 are asfollows: $659million for 2006, $540 million for 2005, and $507 million
for 2004. Thetotal incometax benefit recognized in the income
2006 2005
______D_e_fe_r_r_e_d_ T_a_x_____ ______D_e_fe_r_r_e_d_ T_a_x_____ statement for share based compensation costs was $228 million
(Dollars in Millions) Asset Liability Asset Liability for 2006, $189 million for 2005, and $178 million for 2004.
Employee related obligations $1,691 670 Share based compensation costs capitalized as part of inventory
were insignificant in all periods.
Stock based compensation 1,006 839
Stock options expire 10 years from the date of grant and
Depreciation (450) (428)
vest over service periods that range from six months to five
Non-deductible intangibles (2,263) (1,401)
years. All options are granted at currentmarket price on the
International R&D capitalized
dateof grant. Under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the
for tax 1,483 999
Company may issue up to 260 million shares of common stock.
Reserves & liabilities 845 788
Shares available for future grants under the 2005 Long-Term
Income reported for tax purposes 373 458
Incentive Plan were 224.7 million at the endof 2006.
Miscellaneous international 663 (298) 495 (149) TheCompany settles employee stock option exercises with
Capitalized intangibles 126 140 treasury shares. Treasury shares are replenished throughout the
Miscellaneous U.S. 747 342 year for thenumber of shares used to settle employee stock
Total deferred income taxes $6,934 (3,011) 4,731 (1,978) option exercises.
Thedifference between the net deferred tax on incomeper
thebalance sheet and the net deferred tax above is included in
taxes on incomeon the balance sheet.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 59The fair value of each option award was estimated on the date A summary of option activity under the Plan as of December 31,
of grant using the Black-Scholes option valuation model that uses 2006, January 1, 2006, and January 2, 2005 and changes during
the assumptions noted in the following table. Starting in 2006, the years ending on those dates is presented below:
expected volatility represents a blended rate of 4-year daily
Weighted Aggregate
historicalaverage volatility rate, and a 5-week average implied
Outstanding Average Intrinsic
volatility rate based on at-the-money traded Johnson & Johnson (Shares in Thousands) Shares Exercise Price Value
options with a life of 2 years. Prior to 2006, expected volatility Shares at December 28, 2003 213,949 $45.37
wasbased on 5-year weekly historical volatility rate. Historical Options granted 47,815 53.94
data isused to determine the expected life of the option. The Options exercised (24,066) 28.50
risk-free rate was based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect
Options canceled/forfeited (8,694) 53.77
atthe time of grant.
Shares at January 2, 2005 229,004 48.62 $3,390,159
Theaverage fair value of options granted was $12.22 in
2006, $15.48in 2005, and $13.11 in 2004. Thefair value was Options granted 47,556 66.16
estimated based on the weighted average assumptions of: Options exercised (21,733) 34.19
Options canceled/forfeited (6,285) 55.84
2006 2005 2004
Shares at January 1, 2006 248,542 53.05 $2,030,879
Risk-free rate 4.60% 3.72% 3.15%
Expected volatility 19.6% 25.0% 27.0% Options granted 28,962 58.38
Expected life 6.0yrs 5.0yrs 5.0yrs Options exercised (26,152) 42.80
Dividendyield 2.50% 1.93% 1.76% Options canceled/forfeited (8,425) 59.33
Shares at December 31, 2006 242,927 $54.57 $2,787,725
Thetotal intrinsic value of options exercised was$541.5 million, $664.0 million and $663.2 million in 2006, 2005, and 2004 respec-
tively. Thetotal unrecognized compensation cost was $648.8 million as of December 31, 2006, $659.6million as of January 1, 2006
and $587.5 million as of January 2, 2005. Theweighted average period for this cost to berecognized was 0.99 years for2006,
1.15years for 2005, and 1.12 years for 2004.
Thefollowing table summarizes stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2006:
(_S_h_a_re_s_ _in_ T_h_o_u_s_a_n_d_s_)_____________________________________________________O_u_t_s_ta_n_d_i_n_g__________________________ ______________E_x_e_r_ci_s_a_b_le_____________
Average Average
Exercise Average Exercise Exercise
Price Range Options Life(1) Price Options Price
$ 3.62-$29.88 1,827 2.7 $21.23 1,827 $21.23
$30.07-$40.16 18,916 1.5 36.48 18,914 36.48
$40.98-$50.08 17,441 3.1 49.36 17,364 49.36
$50.11-$52.11 26,309 3.8 50.70 26,309 50.70
$52.20-$53.89 32,343 6.0 52.22 30,659 52.22
$53.93-$54.89 40,172 7.1 53.94 517 54.40
$55.01-$58.25 35,249 5.1 57.30 34,997 57.30
$58.34-$66.08 28,637 9.0 58.54 490 60.85
$66.18-$68.26 42,033 8.1 66.19 — —
242,927 5.9 $54.57 131,077 $50.23
(1)Average contractual life remaining in years
Stock options exercisable at January 1, 2006 and January 2, A summary of stock activity under the Plan as of
2005 were 119,390 at an average price of $47.90 and an average December 31, 2006:
life of 6.4 years, and 100,488 options at an average price of
Outstanding
$41.26 and an average life of 6.4 years, respectively.
(Shares in Thousands) Shares
Shares at January 1, 2006 111
RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS
Stock granted 7,320
The Company grants restricted stockunits with avesting periodof
Stock issued (33)
three years. The Company settles employee stockissuance with
Stock canceled/forfeited (513)
treasury shares.Treasury sharesare replenished throughout the
year forthe number ofsharesused foremployee stockissuances. Shares at December 31, 2006 6,885
The average fair value of the restricted stock units granted during
2006 was $54.17, using the fair marketvalue at the date ofgrant.
The fair value of restricted stock units was discounted fordividends,
which are not paid on the restricted stock units during the vesting
period.The fair value of sharesissued during 2006 was $1.7 million.
60 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORT11. Segments of Business(1)and Geographic Areas
__________S_a_l_e_s _to_ _C_u_s_to_m__e_rs_(2_)__________
(Dollars in Millions) 2006 2005 2004
Consumer—United States $ 4,573 4,405 4,224
International 5,201 4,691 4,109
Total 9,774 9,096 8,333
Pharmaceutical—United States 15,092 14,478 14,960
International 8,175 7,844 7,168
Total 23,267 22,322 22,128
Medical Devices and Diagnostics—United States 10,110 9,494 8,586
International 10,173 9,602 8,301
Total 20,283 19,096 16,887
Worldwide total $53,324 50,514 47,348
____________O_p_e_r_a_t_in_g_ P_r_o_f_it____________ ___________I_d_e_n_ti_fi_a_b_le_ _A_s_se_t_s___________
(Dollars in Millions) 2006(5) 2005(6) 2004(7) 2006 2005 2004
Consumer $ 1,374 1,592 1,444 $25,380 6,275 6,142
Pharmaceutical 6,894 6,365 7,376 18,799 16,091 16,058
Medical Devices and Diagnostics 6,126 5,240 3,924 18,601 16,540 15,805
Segments total 14,394 13,197 12,744 62,780 38,906 38,005
Less: (Income)/Expenses not allocated to segments(3) (193) 81 413
General corporate(4) 7,776 19,958 16,034
Worldwide total $14,587 13,116 12,331 $70,556 58,864 54,039
Additions to Property, Depreciation and
___________P_l_a_n_t_&_ E_q_u_i_p_m_e_n_t___________ _____________A__m_o_r_ti_z_at_i_o_n_____________
(Dollars in Millions) 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004
Consumer $ 344 321 227 $ 255 232 222
Pharmaceutical 1,246 1,388 1,197 929 918 1,008
Medical Devices and Diagnostics 823 785 630 861 821 769
Segments total 2,413 2,494 2,054 2,045 1,971 1,999
General corporate 253 138 121 132 122 125
Worldwide total $2,666 2,632 2,175 $2,177 2,093 2,124
__________S_a_l_e_s _to_ _C_u_s_to_m__e_rs_(2_)__________ ___________Lo_n_g_-_L_iv_e_d_ A__ss_e_t_s_(8_)__________
(Dollars in Millions) 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004
United States $29,775 28,377 27,770 $22,432 15,355 14,324
Europe 12,786 12,187 11,151 14,443 5,646 6,142
Western Hemisphere excluding U.S. 3,542 3,087 2,589 3,108 957 748
Asia-Pacific, Africa 7,221 6,863 5,838 1,206 596 620
Segments total 53,324 50,514 47,348 41,189 22,554 21,834
General corporate 543 451 444
Other non long-lived assets 28,824 35,859 31,761
Worldwide total $53,324 50,514 47,348 $70,556 58,864 54,039
(1)See Note 1 for a description of the segments in which the Company operates.
(2)Export sales and intersegment sales are not significant. In 2006 and 2005, theCompany did not have a customer that represented 10% ormore of total revenues. Sales to the top
distributors accounted for 10.2% and 10.0% of total revenues in 2004.
(3)Amounts not allocated to segments include interest (income)/expense, minority interest and general corporate (income)/expense.
(4)General corporate includes cash and marketable securities.
(5)Includes $320 million and $239 million of In-Process Research and Development (IPR&D) for the Consumerand Medical Devices and Diagnostics segments, respectively. The
Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment also includes the Guidant acquisition agreement termination fee, less associated expenses, of $622 million.
(6)Includes $302 million and $60 million of IPR&D for the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics segments,respectively.
(7)Includes $18 million of IPR&D in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment.
(8)Long-lived assetsinclude property, plant and equipment, net for 2006, 2005 and 2004 of $13,044, $10,830 and $10,436, respectively, and intangible assets, net for 2006, 2005
and 2004 of $28,688, $12,175 and $11,842, respectively.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6112. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income The tax effecton the unrealized gains/(losses) on the equity
Components of other comprehensive income/(loss) consist of securities balance is an expense of $33 million, $38million and $47
the following: million in2006,2005 and 2004, respectively. The tax effectrelated
to employee benefit plans was $891 million in 2006 and $160 million
Total
in 2005. Thetax effecton the gains/(losses) on derivativesand
Unrealized Gains/ Accumulated
Foreign Gains/ (Losses) on Other hedges are losses of $4million and $11 million in 2006 and 2005 and
Currency (Losses) on Employee Derivatives Comprehensive a benefit of$81 million in 2004. See Note 15 foradditional
(Dollars in Millions) Translation Securities Benefit Plans & Hedges Income/(Loss)
information relating to derivatives and hedging.
Dec. 28, 2003 $(373) 27 (64) (180) (590)
Thecurrency translation adjustments are not currently
2004 changes
adjusted for incometaxes as they relate to permanent
Net change due to investments in international subsidiaries.
hedging transactions — — — 15
Net amount reclassed
to net earnings — — — 15 13. Pensions and Other Benefit Plans
Net 2004 changes 268 59 (282) 30 75 TheCompany sponsors various retirement and pension
plans,includingdefined benefit, defined contribution and
Jan.2, 2005 $(105) 86 (346) (150) (515)
termination indemnity plans, which cover most employees
2005 changes
worldwide. TheCompany also provides postretirement bene-
Net change due to
fits,primarily health care insurance, to all U.S. retired employees
hedging transactions — — — 112
and theirdependents.
Net amount reclassed
Many international employees are covered by government-
to net earnings — — — 53
sponsored programs for which thedirect cost to the Company
Net 2005 changes (415) (16) 26 165 (240)
isnotsignificant.
Jan.1, 2006 $(520) 70 (320) 15 (755)
Retirement plan benefits are primarily based on the
2006 changes employee’s compensation during the last three to five years
Net change due to before retirement and the number of years of service. Interna-
hedging transactions 17 tional subsidiaries have plans under which funds are deposited
Net amount reclassed with trustees, annuities are purchased under group contracts or
to net earnings (23) reserves are provided.
Net 2006 changes 362 (9) (1,710) (6) (1,363) TheCompany does not fund retiree health care benefits in
Dec. 31, 2006 $(158) 61 (2,030) 9 (2,118) advance and has the right to modify these plans in the future.
TheCompany uses the date of its consolidated financial
Total other comprehensive incomefor 2006 includes reclassifi- statements (December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006, respec-
cation adjustment gains of $13 million realized from the saleof tively) as the measurement date for all U.S. and international
equity securities and the associated tax expense of $4 million. retirement and other benefitplans.
Total other comprehensive incomefor 2005 includes reclassifi- In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial
cation adjustment gains of $23 million realized from the saleof Accounting Standards No. 158,Employers Accounting for Defined
equity securities and the associated tax expense of $8 million. Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans — an amendment of
Total other comprehensive incomefor 2004 includes reclassifi- FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)which requires an
cation adjustment gains of $16 million realized from the saleof employer to fully recognize the over-funded or under-funded sta-
equity securities and the associated tax expense of $6 million. tus of its pension and other postretirement benefit plans as an
asset or liability in its financial statements. In addition, the Com-
pany is required to recognize as a component of other compre-
hensive income (loss) the actuarial gains and losses and the prior
service costs and credits that arise duringtheperiod but are not
immediately recognized as components of net periodic benefit
cost. Theincremental effect of applying SFAS No. 158 is a $1.7 bil-
lion reduction in shareholder’s equity, netof deferred taxes.
62 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTNet periodicbenefit cost for theCompany’s defined benefit retirement plans and other benefit plans for 2006, 2005 and 2004
includedthe following components:
____________R_e_t_ir_e_m_e_n_t_ P_la_n_s____________ ___________O_t_h_e_r _B_e_n_e_fi_t _P_la_n_s___________
(Dollars in Millions) 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004
Service cost $552 462 409 $122 56 56
Interest cost 570 488 444 136 87 91
Expected return on plan assets (701) (579) (529) (3) (3) (3)
Amortization of prior service cost 10 12 15 (7) (7) (4)
Amortization of net transition asset (1) (2) (3) — — —
Recognized actuarial losses 251 219 173 74 25 27
Curtailments and settlements 4 2 3 — — —
Net periodic benefit cost $685 602 512 $322 158 167
Thenet periodic benefit cost attributable to U.S. retirement plans Amounts expected to berecognized in Net Periodic Cost in
was $423 million in 2006, $370 million in 2005 and $329 mil- the coming year for theCompany’s defined benefit retirement
lion in 2004. plans and other postretirement plans:
(Dollars in Millions)
Amortization of net actuarial loss $254
Amortization of prior service cost 3
Amortization of net transition obligation 1
Theweighted-average assumptions in the following table represent the rates used to develop the actuarial present value of the pro-
jected benefit obligation for theyear listed and also the net periodic benefit cost for thefollowing year.
____________R_e_t_ir_e_m_e_n_t_ P_la_n_s____________ ___________O_t_h_e_r _B_e_n_e_fi_t _P_la_n_s___________
(Dollars in Millions) 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004
U.S. Benefit Plans
Discount rate 6.00% 5.75 5.75 6.00% 5.75 5.75
Expected long-term rate of return
on plan assets 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
Rate of increase in compensation levels 4.50 4.50 4.50 4.50 4.50 4.50
International Benefit Plans
Discount rate 5.00% 4.75 5.00 6.00% 5.00 5.50
Expected long-term rate of return
on plan assets 8.00 8.25 8.00 — — —
Rate of increase in compensation levels 3.75 3.75 3.75 4.50 4.25 4.25
The Company’s discount rates are determined by consideringcurrent Thefollowing table displays the assumed health care cost
yield curves representing high quality, long-term fixed income instru- trend rates, for all individuals:
ments. The resulting discount rates are consistentwith the duration
Health Care Plans 2006 2005
of plan liabilities.
Health care cost trend rate assumed for next year 9.00% 9.00
Theexpected long-term rate of return on plan assets
Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed
assumptions is determined using a building block approach, con-
to decline(ultimate trend) 4.50% 4.50
sidering historical averages and real returns of each asset class.
Year the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate 2012 2010
Incertain countries, where historical returns are not meaningful,
consideration is given to local market expectations of
long-termreturns. A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost
trend rates wouldhave the following effect:
One-Percentage- One-Percentage-
(Dollars in Millions) Point Increase Point Decrease
Health Care Plans
Total interest and service cost $ 34 $ (23)
Postretirement benefit obligation 292 (238)
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 63Thefollowing table sets forth information related to thebenefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets at year-end 2006 and
2005 for theCompany’s defined benefit retirement plans and other postretirement plans:
_____R_e_t_i_re_m__en_t_ P_l_a_n_s_____ ____O__th_e_r_ B_e_n_e_f_it_ P_l_a_n_s____
(Dollars in Millions) 2006 2005 2006 2005
Change in Benefit Obligation
Projected benefit obligation—beginning of year $10,171 8,941 $2,325* 1,593
Service costs 552 462 122 56
Interest costs 570 488 136 87
Plan participant contributions 47 22 — —
Amendments 7 13 — —
Actuarial (gains)/losses (99) 932 130 57
Divestitures & acquisitions 443 — 101 —
Curtailments & settlements (7) (1) — —
Benefits paid from plan (402) (366) (147) (75)
Effect of exchange rates 378 (320) 1 (1)
Projected benefit obligation—end of year $11,660 10,171 $2,668 1,717
Change in Plan Assets
Plan assets at fair value—beginning of year $ 8,108 7,125 $ 34 37
Actual return on plan assets 966 801 2 1
Company contributions 259 714 141 71
Plan participant contributions 47 22 — —
Divestitures & acquisitions 300 — — —
Curtailments & settlements (7) — — —
Benefits paid from plan assets (402) (366) (147) (75)
Effect of exchange rates 267 (188) — —
Plan assets at fair value—end of year $ 9,538 8,108 $ 30 34
Funded status at end of year $(2,122) (2,063) $(2,638) (1,683)
Unrecognized actuarial losses 1,996 2,484 1,046 574
Unrecognized prior service costs 44 49 (42) (48)
Unrecognized net transition assets 7 5 — —
Total recognized in the consolidated balance sheet $ (75) 475 $(1,634) (1,157)
Amounts Recognized in the Company’s Balance Sheet consist of the following:
Before Adoption of SFAS 158
Book accruals $(1,703) (1,264) (1,634) (1,157)
Prepaid benefits 1,062 1,218 — —
Intangible assets 38 41 — —
Accumulated comprehensive income 528 480 — —
Total recognized in the consolidated balance sheet $ (75) 475 $(1,634) (1,157)
After Adoption of SFAS 158
Non-current assets $ 259 —
Current liabilities (26) (81)
Non-current liabilities (2,355) (2,557)
Total recognized in the consolidated balance sheet $(2,122) $(2,638)
Amounts Recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income consist of
Net actuarial losses $ 1,996 1,046
Prior service costs/(credits) 44 (42)
Unrecognized net transition assets 7 0
Total before tax effects $ 2,047 $1,004
Change in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income due to Adoption of SFAS 158 (before tax effects) $ 1,519 $1,004
Accumulated Benefit Obligations End of Year $ 9,804 8,570
* Includes other post employment benefits as perthe adoption of SFAS No. 158.
64 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTStrategic asset allocations are determined by country, based on considered non-mature plans and the long-term strategic asset
the nature of the liabilities and considering thedemographic allocations are consistent with these types of plans. Emphasis is
composition of the plan participants (average age, years of ser- placed on diversifying equities on abroadbasis combinedwith
vice and active versus retiree status). TheCompany’s plans are currencymatching of the fixed incomeassets.
Thefollowing table displays the projected future benefitpayments from the Company’s retirement and other benefit plans:
(Dollars in Millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012-2016
Projected future benefit payments
Retirement plans $421 422 432 455 496 3,003
Other benefit plans—gross $176 176 179 182 185 993
Medicare rebates (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (83)
Other benefit plans—net $167 166 168 170 172 910
TheCompany was not required to fund its U.S. retirement plans appropriate to meet the long-term obligations of the plans. In
in 2006 and is not required, nor does it anticipate funding, in certain countries other than the United States, the funding of
2007 to meet minimum statutory fundingrequirements. Interna- pension plans is nota common practice as funding provides no
tional plans are funded in accordance with local regulations. economic benefit. Consequently, the Company has several
Additional discretionary contributions are made when deemed pension plans which are notfunded.
Thefollowing table displays the projected future minimum contributions to the Company’s U.S. and international unfunded
retirement plans. These amounts do not include any discretionary contributions that the Company may elect to make in the future.
(Dollars in Millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012-2016
Projected future contributions
Unfunded U.S. retirement plans $21 22 23 24 25 140
Unfunded International retirement plans $20 20 21 21 22 120
TheCompany’s retirement plan asset allocation at December 31, 2006 and January1, 2006 and target allocations for 2007 are
as follows:
Percent of Target
________P_la_n_ A__ss_e_t_s_______ Allocation
2006 2005 2007
U.S. Retirement Plans
Equity securities 78% 76% 75%
Debt securities 22 24 25
Total plan assets 100% 100% 100%
International Retirement Plans
Equity securities 67% 69% 67%
Debt securities 32 30 32
Real estate and other 1 1 1
Total plan assets 100% 100% 100%
TheCompany’s other benefit plans are unfunded except for U.S. Plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan
life insurance contract assets of $30 million and $34 million at assets consist of the following:
December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006, respectively.
Thefair value of Johnson & Johnson common stock directly
_____R_e_t_ir_e_m__en_t_ _P_la_n_s_____
(Dollars in Millions) 2006 2005
held in planassets was $452 million (4.9% of total plan assets)
Accumulated benefit obligation $(3,085) $(2,759)
and $419million (5.2% of total plan assets) at December 31,
Projected benefit obligation (3,561) (3,230)
2006 and January 1, 2006, respectively.
Plan assets at fair value 1,650 1,570
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6514. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities
_______________D_e_c_e_m_b_e_r_ 3_1_,_2_0_0_6_______________ ________________J_a_n_u_a_ry_ _1,_ 2_0_0__6________________
Amortized Unrealized Estimated Amortized Unrealized Estimated
(Dollars in Millions) Cost Gains/(Losses) Fair Value Cost Gains/(Losses) Fair Value
Current Investments
Cash $1,909 — 1,909 1,425 — 1,425
Government securities
and obligations — — — 1,743 — 1,743
Corporate debt securities — — — 67 — 67
Money market funds 1,116 — 1,116 11,918 — 11,918
Time deposits 1,059 — 1,059 985 — 985
Total cash, cash equivalents and current marketable securities $4,084 — 4,084 16,138 — 16,138
Non-Current Investments
Marketable securities $ 16 — 16 20 — 20
15. Financial Instruments (orequivalent) credit rating. On average these investments
TheCompany follows the provisions of SFAS 133 requiring that mature within six months, and the Company has not incurred
all derivative instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at any related losses.
fair value.
As of December 31, 2006, the balance of deferred net gains on
16. Savings Plan
derivatives included in accumulated other comprehensive income
was$9 million after-tax. The Company expects that substantially TheCompany has voluntary 401(k) savings plans designed to
all of thisamount will be reclassified into earnings overthe next 12 enhance the existing retirement programs covering eligible
monthsas a result of transactionsthat are expected to occur over employees. TheCompany matches a percentage of each
thatperiod.The maximum lengthof time overwhich the Company employee’s contributions consistent with the provisions of the
is hedging transaction exposure is 18 months. The amount ulti- plan for which he/she is eligible.
mately realized in earnings will differ as foreign exchange rates In the U.S. salaried plan, through 2004, one-third of the
change. Realized gains and losses are ultimately determined by Company match waspaid in Company stock under an employee
actual exchange rates at maturity of thederivative. Derivative stock ownership plan (ESOP) unless the employee choseto
gains/(losses), initially reported as a component of other compre- redirect his or her investment. In 1990, to establish the ESOP, the
hensive income, are reclassified to earnings in the period when the Company loaned $100 million to the ESOP Trust to purchase
forecasted transaction affects earnings. shares of the Company stock on the open market. In exchange, the
Forthe years ended December 31, 2006, January 1, 2006, and Company received a note, the balance of which wasrecorded as a
January 2, 2005, the net impact of hedge ineffectiveness, transac- reduction of shareholders’ equity. The remainingshares held by the
tions not qualifying forhedge accounting and discontinuance of ESOP trust were allocated to participant accounts by the endof
hedges,to the Company’s financial statements was insignificant. February 2005. From March 2005, and going forward, the Com-
Refer to Note 12 for disclosures of movements in Accumu- pany match is made in cash and follows the individual employee’s
lated Other Comprehensive Income. investment elections.
Total Company contributions to the plans were $158 million
in 2006, $148 million in 2005 and $143 million in 2004.
CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK
TheCompany invests its excess cash in both deposits with major
banks throughout the worldand other high quality money market
instruments. TheCompany has a policy of making investments
onlywith commercial institutions that have at least an A
66 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORT17. Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures Thefollowing table presents the preliminaryallocation of
Certain businesses were acquired for $18.0 billion in cash and the purchase price related to the Consumer Healthcare business
$1.3 billion of liabilities assumed during 2006. These acquisitions of Pfizer Inc. as of the date of acquisition:
were accounted for by the purchase method and, accordingly,
(Dollars in Millions)
results of operations have been included in the financial state-
Current assets $ 1,992
ments from their respective dates of acquisitions except as
Property, plant and equipment 809
notedbelow.
Goodwill 6,567
On December 20, 2006, the Company completed the
acquisition of the Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. Intangible assets 8,895
for a purchase price of $16.6 billion in cash. Theoperating Total assets acquired $18,263
resultsof the Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. will Current liabilities 831
bereported in the Company’s financial statements beginning
Non-current liabilities 1,155
in2007, as 2006 results subsequent to the acquisition date were
Total liabilities assumed $ 1,986
not significant.
In order to obtain regulatory approval of the transaction, the Net assets acquired $16,277
Company agreed to divest certain overlapping businesses. The
Company completed the divestiture of the ZANTAC®product on Theacquisition of the Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer
December 20, 2006 and the divestitures of KAOPECTATE®, Inc. resulted in $6.6 billion in goodwill, which is allocated to the
UNISOM®, CORTIZONE®, BALMEX®and ACT®products on Consumer segment.
January 2, 2007. Thepreliminary purchase price allocation to theidentifiable
Thefollowing table provides pro forma results of operations intangible assets included in the current period balance sheet is
for thefiscal year ended January 1, 2006 and the fiscal year as follows:
ended December 31, 2006, as if the Consumer Healthcare busi-
(Dollars in Millions)
ness of Pfizer Inc. had been acquired as of the beginning of each
Intangible assets with determinable lives:
period presented.Thepro forma results include the effect of
Brands $ 302
divestitures and certain purchase accounting adjustments such
Patents and technology 321
as the estimated changes in depreciation andamortization
expense on the acquired tangible and intangible assets. However, Customer relationships 3,067
pro forma results do not include any anticipated cost savings or Total amortizable intangibles 3,690
other effects of the planned integration of the Consumer Health- Brands with indefinite lives 5,205
care business of Pfizer Inc. Accordingly, such amounts are not Total intangible assets $8,895
necessarily indicative of the results if the acquisition had
occurred on the dates indicated or which may occur in the future.
Theweighted average life of the $3,690 million of total
amortizable intangibles is approximately 31 years.
______P_ro_ _fo_r_m__a _r_es_u_l_ts______
The majority of the intangible asset valuation relates to
Year ended Year ended
December 31, January 1, brands. The assessment as to brands that have an indefinite life
(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Data) 2006 2006 and those that have a determinable life was based on a number of
Net Sales $57,115 54,156 factors,including the competitive environment, market share,
Net Earnings 10,770 9,784 brand history, product life cycles, operating plan and the macro-
Diluted Net Earnings per Common Share $ 3.64 3.26 economic environment of the countries in which the brands are
sold. The indefinite-life brands that account for over 90% of
TheCompany is in the process of finalizing the allocation of the thetotal value of all indefinite-life brands include LISTERINE®,
purchase price to the individual assets acquired and liabilities NICORETTE®, NEOSPORIN®, SUDAFED®, BENADRYL®, VISINE®
assumed. Thepreliminaryallocation of the purchase price and BENYLIN®. The determinable-life brands include PURELL®,
included in the current period balance sheet is based on the best ACTIFED®, EFFERDENT®and other regional or country specific
estimates of management. Thecompletion of the purchase price brands. The determinable-life brands have assetlives ranging
allocation may result in adjustments to the carryingvalue of the from 5 to 40 years.The patents and technology intangibles are
Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc.’s recorded assets concentrated in the upper respiratory, oral care, medicated skin
and liabilities, revisions of the useful lives of intangible assets care, tobacco dependence and hair growth businesses and have
and the determination of any residual amount that will be allo- assetlives ranging from 5 to 20 years.The estimated customer
cated to goodwill. Therelated depreciation andamortization relationship intangible assetuseful lives, ranging from 30 to 40
from the acquired assets is also subject to revision based on the years,reflect the very low historical and projected customer attri-
final allocation. tion rates among the Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer
Inc.’s major retailer and distributor customers.
TheIPR&D charge related to the acquisition of the
Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. was $320 million
on a pre-tax basis and $217 million on an after-tax basis and is
primarily associated with rights obtained to the pending switch
of ZYRTEC®from U.S. prescription to over the counter status.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 67Thevalue of the IPR&D was calculated using cash flow projec- probability ofsuccess factor ranging from 70-80% was used to
tions discounted for therisk inherentin such projects. Aproba- reflectinherent clinical and regulatory risk and the discount rate
bility of success factor of 95% was used to reflectinherent applied was 21%.
regulatory risk and the discount rate applied was 11%. TheIPR&D charge related to the acquisition of Ensure
The Company is in the process of completingthe analysis of Medical, Inc. was $66 million and is associated with the femoral
integration plans, pursuant to which the Company will incur costs artery closure device. Thevalue of the IPR&D was calculated
primarily related to the elimination of certain duplicate selling, using cash flow projections discounted for therisk inherentin
general and administrative functions between the two companies such projects. Aprobability of success factor of 75% was used to
in areas such as global business services, corporate staff and reflectinherent clinical and regulatory risk and the discount rate
go-to-market support, as well as excess manufacturing capacity. applied was 22%.
In addition to the acquisition of the Consumer Healthcare Certain businesses were acquired for $987 million in cash
business of Pfizer Inc., 2006 acquisitions included: Animas Cor- and $141 million of liabilities assumed during 2005. These acqui-
poration, a leading maker of insulin infusion pumps and related sitions were accounted for by the purchase method and, accord-
products; Hand Innovations LLC, a privately held manufacturer of ingly, results of operations have been included in the financial
fracture fixation products for theupper extremities; Future Med- statements from their respective dates of acquisitions.
ical Systems S.A., a privately held company that primarily devel- The2005acquisitions included: TransForm Pharmaceuti-
ops, manufactures and markets arthroscopic fluidmanagement cals, Inc., a company specializing in the discovery of superior for-
systems; Vascular Control Systems, Inc., a privately held com- mulations and novel crystalline forms of drugmolecules; Closure
pany focused on developing medical devices to treat fibroids and Medical Corporation, a company with expertise and intellectual
to control bleeding in obstetric and gynecologic applications; property in the biosurgicals market; Peninsula Pharmaceuticals,
Groupe Vendôme S.A., a privately held French marketer of adult Inc., a biopharmaceutical company focused on developing and
and baby skin care products; ColBar Lifescience Ltd., a privately commercializing antibiotics to treat life-threatening infections;
held company specializing in reconstructive medicine and tissue and rights to all consumer andprofessionally dispensed REM-
engineering and Ensure Medical, Inc., a privately held company BRANDT®Brand of oral care products, such as whitening
that develops devices for post-catheterization closure of the toothpastes, strips, systems and mouth rinses.
femoral artery. Theexcess of purchase price over the estimated fair value
Excluding the acquisition of the Consumer Healthcare busi- oftangible assets acquired amounted to $720million and has
ness of Pfizer Inc., the excess of purchase price over the esti- been assigned to identifiable intangibleassets, with any residual
mated fair value of tangible assets acquired amounted to $1,209 recorded to goodwill. Approximately $362 million has been
million and has been assigned to identifiable intangibleassets, identified as the value of IPR&D primarily associated with the
with any residual recorded to goodwill. Approximately $239 mil- acquisitions of TransForm Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Closure Medical
lion has been identified as the value of IPR&D primarily associ- Corporation and Peninsula Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
ated with the acquisitions of Hand Innovations LLC, Future TheIPR&D charge related to the acquisition of TransForm
Medical Systems S.A., Vascular Control Systems, Inc., ColBar Pharmaceuticals Inc. was $50 million and is associated with
Lifescience Ltd. and Ensure Medical, Inc. research related to the discovery and application of superior for-
TheIPR&D charge related to the acquisition of Hand Inno- mulations. Thevalue of the IPR&D was calculated using cash
vations LLC was $22 million and is associated with fracture flow projections discounted for therisk inherentin such projects.
repair technologies. Thevalue of the IPR&D was calculated using Thediscount rate applied was 10%.
cash flow projections discounted for therisk inherent in such TheIPR&D charge related to the acquisition of Closure
projects. Aprobability of success factor ranging from38-95% Medical Corporation was $51 million and is associated with the
was used to reflectinherent clinical and regulatory risk and the OMNEX™Surgical Sealant in vascular indications outside
discount rate applied was 17%. Europe and in other potential indications worldwide. Thevalue
TheIPR&D charge related to the acquisition of Future Med- ofthe IPR&D was calculated using cash flow projections dis-
ical Systems S.A. was $15 million and is associated with the counted for therisk inherentin such projects. Aprobability of
NEXTRA and DUO PUMP product technologies. The valueof the success factor of 90% for vascular indications and 60% for all
IPR&D was calculated using cash flow projections discounted for other indications was used to reflectinherent clinical and regula-
therisk inherent in such projects. A probability of success factor tory risk. Thediscount rate applied to both vascular and other
of 90% for both technologies was used to reflect inherent clinical indications was 15%.
andregulatory risk and the discount rate applied was 22%. TheIPR&D charge related to the acquisition of Peninsula
TheIPR&D charge related to the acquisition of Vascular Pharmaceuticals, Inc. was $252 million and is associated with
Control Systems, Inc. was $87 million and is associated with the the development of doripenem, which is in Phase III clinical
FLOSTAT system technology. Thevalue of the IPR&D was calcu- trials.Thevalue of the IPR&D was calculated using cash flow
lated using cash flow projections discounted for therisk inherent projections discounted for therisk inherentin such projects.
in such projects. Aprobability of success factor of 75% was used Aprobability of success factor of 80% was used to reflect
to reflectinherent clinical and regulatory risk and the discount inherent clinical and regulatory risk and the discount rate
rate applied was 21%. appliedwas 14%.
TheIPR&D charge related to the acquisition of ColBar Theremaining $9 million in IPR&D was associated with the
Lifescience Ltd. was $49 million and is associated with the acquisition of international commercial rightsto certain patents
EVOLENCE family of products, which are biodegradable dermal and know-how in the field of sedation and analgesia from Scott
fillers. Thevalue of the IPR&D was calculated using cash flow Lab, Inc. Thevalue of the IPR&D was calculated using cash flow
projections discounted for therisk inherentin such projects. A
68 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTprojections discounted for therisk inherentin such projects. warnings and instructions for usethat accompany such prod-
Thediscount rate was 17%. ucts, it is not feasible to predictthe ultimate outcomeof litiga-
Certain businesses were acquired for $455 million in cash tion. However, the Company believes that if any liability results
and $15 million of liabilities assumed during 2004. These acqui- from such cases, it willbe substantially covered by existing
sitions were accounted for by the purchase method and, accord- amounts accrued in the Company’s balance sheet and, where
ingly, results of operations have been included in the financial available, by third-party product liability insurance.
statements from their respective dates of acquisition. Multiple products of Johnson & Johnson subsidiaries are sub-
In addition, per the terms of the 2003 acquisition agree- ject to numerous product liability claims and lawsuits, including
ment with the Link Spine Group, Inc., $125 million in cash was ORTHO EVRA®, RISPERDAL®, DURAGESIC®and the CHARITÉ™
paid to the owners of the Link Spine Group, Inc. in 2004 based Artificial Disc. AsofDecember 31, 2006, there were approxi-
on thedate the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) mately 1,500 claimants who have filed lawsuits or made claims
approved the CHARITÉ™Artificial Disc. Thus, the 2004total regarding injuries allegedly due to ORTHO EVRA®, 700 claimants
cash expenditures related to acquisitions were $580 million. with respect to RISPERDAL®, 100 with respect to DURAGESIC®
The2004acquisitions included: Merck’s 50% interest in and 100 with respect to CHARITÉ™. These claimants seek sub-
the Johnson & Johnson-Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Co. stantial compensatory and, where available, punitive damages.
European non-prescription pharmaceutical joint venture includ- Numerous claims and lawsuits in the United Statesrelating to the
ingall of the infrastructure and brand assets managed by the drug PROPULSID®, withdrawn from general sale by the Com-
European joint venture; Egea Biosciences, Inc. through the exer- pany’s Janssen Pharmaceutica Inc. subsidiary in 2000, have been
cise of the option to acquire the remaining outstanding stock not resolved or are currentlyenrolled in settlement programswith an
owned by Johnson & Johnson, which has developed a proprietary aggregate cap below $100 million in paymentsby the Company.
technology platform called GENE WRITER, thatallows for the Litigation concerning PROPULSID®is pending in Canada, where a
rapid and highly accurate synthesis of DNA sequences, gene class action of persons alleging adverse reactions to the drug was
assembly, and construction of large synthetic gene libraries; recently certified.The Johnson & Johnson subsidiaries responsible
Artemis Medical, Inc., a privately held company with ultrasound for marketing the above products are vigorously defending against
and x-ray visible biopsy site breast markers as well as hybrid these claims except where settlement is deemed appropriate.
markers; U.S. commercial rightsto certain patents and know-
how in the field of sedation and analgesia from Scott Lab, Inc.; AFFIRMATIVE STENT PATENT LITIGATION
Biapharm SAS, a privately held French producer and marketer of In patent infringement actions tried in Delaware Federal District
skin care products centered around the leadingbrand BIAFINE®; Court in late 2000, Cordis Corporation (Cordis), a subsidiary of
the assets of Micomed, a privately owned manufacturer of spinal Johnson &Johnson, obtained verdicts of infringement and patent
implants primarily focused on supplying the German market; and validity, and damage awards against Boston Scientific Corpora-
the acquisition of the AMBI®skin care brand for women of color. tion (Boston Scientific) and Medtronic AVE, Inc. (Medtronic)
Theexcess of purchase price over the estimated fair value of based on a number of Cordis vascular stent patents. InDecem-
tangible assets acquired amounted to $425million and has been ber 2000, the jury in the damage action against Boston Scientific
assigned to identifiable intangibleassets, with any residual returned a verdictof $324 million and thejury in the Medtronic
recorded to goodwill. The$125 million related to the U.S. FDA action returned a verdictof $271 million. Multiple post-trialpro-
approval of the CHARITÉ™Artificial Disc was recorded as addi- ceedings and appeals have ensued with respect to these verdicts,
tional goodwill associated with the 2003 Link Spine Group, Inc. with the ultimate outcomestill subject to uncertainty.
acquisition. Thus, total additions to intangibles andgoodwill in Cordis also has an arbitration claim against Medtronic accus-
2004 were $550 million. Approximately $18 million has been ing Medtronic of infringement by sale of stent products introduced
identified as the value of IPR&D associated with the Scott Lab by Medtronic subsequent to its products subject to the earlier
acquisition. Thevalue of the IPR&D was calculated using cash action referenced above. Those subsequent products were found
flow projections discounted for therisk inherentin such projects. to have been licensed to Medtronic pursuant to a 1997license by
Thediscount rate was 25%. an arbitration panel in March 2005. Further arbitration proceed-
Supplemental pro forma information for 2005 and 2004 ings will determine whether royalties are owed for those products.
perSFAS No. 141, Business Combinations,andSFAS No. 142, In January 2003, Cordis filed a patent infringement action
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,is not provided, as the against Boston Scientific in Delaware Federal District Court
impact of the aforementioned acquisitions did not have a mate- accusing itsExpress2™, Taxus®and Liberte®stents of infringing
rialeffect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or the Palmaz patentthatexpired in November 2005. TheLiberte®
financial position. stent was also accused of infringing Cordis’ Gray patent that
Divestitures in 2006, 2005 and 2004 did not have a mate- expires in 2016. In June 2005, a jury found that the Express2™,
rialeffect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or Taxus®and Liberte®stents infringed the Palmaz patent and that
financial position. the Liberte®stentalso infringed the Gray patent. Motions filed
by Boston Scientific seeking to vacate the verdictor obtain a new
trial were denied in June 2006. Cordis expects Boston Scientific
18. Legal Proceedings
will appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
PRODUCT LIABILITY
TheCompany is involved in numerous product liability cases in
PATENT LITIGATION AGAINST VARIOUS
the United States, many of which concern adverse reactions to
JOHNSON& JOHNSON SUBSIDIARIES
drugs and medical devices. Thedamages claimed are substan- Theproducts of various Johnson & Johnson subsidiaries are
tial, and while the Company is confident of the adequacy of the thesubject of various patent lawsuits, the outcomes of which
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69couldpotentially adversely affect the ability of those subsidiaries damages, willfulness and injunctive relief after the appeals have
to sell thoseproducts, or require the payment of past damages been decided.
and future royalties. With respect to all of these matters, the Trialof Boston Scientific’s case asserting infringement by
Johnson &Johnson subsidiary involved is vigorously defending the CYPHER®stent of Boston Scientific’s Grainger patent,
against the claims of infringement and disputing, where appro- whichhadbeen scheduled for March 2006, hasbeen adjourned
priate, the validity and enforceability of the patent claims pending a decision on Cordis’ motion for summary judgment.
asserted against it. Inthat case as well, Boston Scientific seeks an injunction and
In July 2005, a jury in Federal District Court in Delaware substantial damages.
found that the Cordis CYPHER®stent infringed Boston Scien- Boston Scientific has brought actions in Belgium andthe
tific’s Ding`536 patent and that the Cordis CYPHER®and BX Netherlands under its Kastenhofer patent to enjoin the manufac-
VELOCITY®stents also infringed Boston Scientific’s Jang`021 ture and sale of allegedly infringing catheters in those countries,
patent. Thejury also found both of those patents valid. Boston and to recover damages. TheBelgian case is pendingandno
Scientific seeks substantial damages and an injunction in that hearing date has been set. A decision by the lower court in the
action. In June 2006, the District Court denied motions by Netherlands in Boston Scientific’s favor is on appeal.
Cordis to overturn the jury verdicts or grant a new trial. Cordis In Germany, Boston Scientific has several actions based on
has moved for re-consideration of those decisions. If reconsider- its Ding patents pending against the Cordis CYPHER®stent.
ation is denied, Cordis will appeal to the Court of Appeals for Cordis was successful in these actions at the trial level, but
theFederal Circuit. TheDistrict Court indicated it will consider Boston Scientific has appealed.
Thefollowing chart summarizes various patent lawsuits concerning products of Johnson &Johnson subsidiariesthathave yet to
proceed to trial:
J&J Plaintiff/
Product Company Patents Patent Holder Court Trial Date Date Filed
Catheters and Cordis Fitzmaurice Medtronic AVE E.D. Tex 09/07 06/03
stent delivery
systems
Drug Eluting Cordis Grainger Boston Scientific D. Del. * 12/03
Stents Corp.
Drug Eluting Cordis Ding Boston Scientific Germany * 04/04
Stents Corp. 11/04
Two-layer Cordis Kasten- Boston Scientific N.D. Cal * 02/02
Catheters hofer Corp. Belgium * 12/03
Forman
Stents Cordis Israel Medinol Multiple E.U. * 05/03
jurisdictions
Contact Lenses Vision Nicolson CIBA Vision M.D. Fla. * 09/03
Care
* Trial date to be established.
non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability of these
LITIGATION AGAINST FILERS OFABBREVIATED NEW DRUG patents. In the event the subsidiary of the Company involved is
APPLICATIONS (ANDAs) not successful in these actions, or the statutory 30-month stay
Thefollowing chart indicates lawsuits pending against generic expires before a ruling from the district court is obtained, the
firms that filed Abbreviated New Drug Applications seeking to firms involved will have the ability, upon FDA approval, to intro-
market generic forms of products sold by various subsidiaries of duce generic versions of the product at issue resulting in very
the Company prior to expiration of the applicable patents cover- substantial market share and revenue losses for theproduct of
ing those products. TheseANDAs typically include allegations of the Company’s subsidiary.
As noted in the following chart, 30-month stays expired during 2006 and will expire in 2007 or 2008 with respect to ANDA
challenges regarding various products:
Brand Name Patent/NDA Generic Trial Date 30-Month
Product Holder Challenger Court Date Filed Stay Expires
ACIPHEX® Eisai Teva S.D. N.Y. 03/07 11/03 02/07
20 mg delay (for Janssen) Dr. Reddy’s S.D. N.Y. 03/07 11/03 02/07
release tablet Mylan S.D. N.Y. 03/07 01/04 02/07
AXERT®6.25 Almirall Teva S.D. N.Y. * 03/06 11/08
and 12.5 mg Ortho-McNeil
Neurologics
CONCERTA® McNeil-PPC Andrx D. Del. * 09/05 None
18, 27, 36 and 54 mg ALZA
controlled release tablet
70 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTBrand Name Patent/NDA Generic Trial Date 30-Month
Product Holder Challenger Court Date Filed Stay Expires
DITROPAN XL® Ortho-McNeil Mylan D. W.V. 02/05 05/03 09/05
5, 10, 15 mg ALZA Impax N.D. Cal. 12/05 09/03 01/06
controlled release tablet
ORTHO TRI CYCLEN®LO Ortho-McNeil Barr D. N.J. * 10/03 02/06
0.18 mg/0.025 mg
0.215 mg/0.025 mg
and 0.25 mg/0.025 mg
PEPCID®Complete McNeil-PPC Perrigo S.D. N.Y. 02/07 02/05 06/07
RAZADYNE™ Janssen Teva D. Del 05/07 07/05 01/08
Mylan D. Del 05/07 07/05 01/08
Dr. Reddy’s D. Del 05/07 07/05 01/08
Purepac D. Del 05/07 07/05 01/08
Barr D. Del 05/07 07/05 01/08
Par D. Del 05/07 07/05 01/08
AlphaPharm D. Del 05/07 07/05 01/08
RAZADYNE™ER Janssen Barr D. N.J. * 06/06 11/08
RISPERDAL®Tablets Janssen Mylan D. N.J. 06/06 12/03 05/06
.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4 Dr. Reddy’s D. N.J. 06/06 12/03 06/06
mg tablets Apotex D. N.J. * 06/06 11/08
RISPERDAL®M-Tab Janssen Dr. Reddy’s D. N.J. 06/06 02/05 07/07
0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4 mg
RISPERDAL®Oral Janssen Apotex D. N.J. * 03/06 08/08
Solution, 1 mg/ml
TOPAMAX® Ortho-McNeil Mylan D. N.J. * 04/04 09/06
25, 50, 100, 200 mg tablet Cobalt D. N.J. * 10/05 03/08
TOPAMAX®SPRINKLE Ortho-McNeil Cobalt D. N.J. * 12/05 05/08
15, 25 mg capsule Mylan D. N.J. * 10/06 03/09
*Trial date to be established.
In the action against Mylan and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories In the action against Mylan involving Ortho-McNeil’s
regarding RISPERDAL®(risperidone) tablets and M-Tabs, the product, DITROPAN XL®(oxybutynin chloride), the court in
District Court in New Jersey ruled, on October 13, 2006, thatthe September 2005 found the DITROPAN XL®patentinvalid and
RISPERDAL®patent was valid, enforceable, and infringed by the not infringed by Mylan’s generic product. Thoserulings were
generic products at issue, and entered an injunction prohibiting affirmed by the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on
Mylan and Dr. Reddy’s from marketing their generic risperidone September 6, 2006. Mylan and Impax received final FDA
products until a date no earlier than patent expiration in Decem- approval and launched their products in November 2006.
ber 2007. Mylan has appealed that ruling. In the weeks following the adverse ruling in the DITROPAN
In the action against Mylan with respect to the patent on XL®ANDA litigation against Mylan in September 2005, Johnson
TOPAMAX®, the District Court in New Jersey, on October 24, & Johnson andALZA received seven antitrust class action
2006, grantedthe Company’s subsidiary Ortho-McNeil Pharma- complaints filedby purchasers of the product. They allege that
ceutical, Inc.’s (Ortho-McNeil)motion for a preliminary Johnson & Johnson and ALZA violated the antitrust laws of the
injunction barring launch by Mylan of its generic version various states by knowingly pursuing baseless patent litigation,
ofTOPAMAX®. On February 2, 2007, the district court granted and thereby delaying entry into the market by Mylan and Impax.
Ortho-McNeil’s motion for summary judgment dismissing
Mylan’s claimthe patent was obvious, the only remaining issue in
the case. The Company expects judgment in the case will shortly
be entered for Ortho-McNeil, and that Mylan will then appeal.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 71In the action against Impax involvingits ANDA referencing In December 2003, Ortho-McNeil received a subpoena from
McNeil-PPC’s product CONCERTA®, McNeil and ALZA Corpo- the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Boston, Massachusetts seeking docu-
ration, both subsidiaries of the Company, dismissed with preju- ments relating to the marketing, including alleged off-label market-
dice their claim of infringement against Impax with respect to ing, of the drugTOPAMAX®(topiramate). An additional subpoena
itsANDA. for documents was served in June 2006. Ortho-McNeil is cooper-
With respect to all of the above matters, the Johnson & ating in responding to the subpoenas. In October 2004, theU.S.
Johnson subsidiary involved is vigorously defending the validity Attorney’s Office in Boston asked attorneys for Ortho-McNeil to
and enforceability and asserting the infringement of its own or cooperate in facilitating the subpoenaed testimony of several
itslicensor’s patents. present and former Ortho-McNeil employees before a federal
grand jury in Boston. Cooperation in securing the testimony of
AVERAGE WHOLESALE PRICE (AWP) LITIGATION additional witnesses before the grand jury has been requested
Johnson &Johnson and several of its pharmaceutical sub- andis being provided.
sidiaries, along with numerous other pharmaceutical companies, In January 2004, Janssen received a subpoena from the
are defendants in a series of lawsuits in state and federal courts Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Office of Personnel
involving allegations that the pricing and marketing of certain Management seeking documents concerning sales and market-
pharmaceutical products amounted to fraudulent and otherwise ingof, any and all payments to physicians in connection with
actionable conduct because, among other things, the companies sales and marketing of, and clinical trials for, RISPERDAL®
allegedly reported an inflated Average Wholesale Price (AWP) (risperidone) from 1997 to 2002. Documents subsequent to
for thedrugs at issue. Most of these cases, both federal actions 2002 have also been requested. An additional subpoena seeking
and state actions removed to federal court, have been consoli- information about marketing of and adverse reactions to
dated for pre-trial purposes in a Multi-District Litigation (MDL) RISPERDAL®was received from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the
in Federal District Court in Boston, Massachusetts. Theplaintiffs Eastern District of Pennsylvania in November 2005. Janssen is
in thesecases includeclasses of private persons or entities that cooperating in responding to these subpoenas.
paid for any portion of the purchase of the drugs at issue based In April 2004,several of the Company’s pharmaceutical
on AWP, and state government entities thatmade Medicaid pay- companies were requested to submit information to the U.S.
ments for thedrugs at issue based on AWP. In the MDL proceed- Senate Finance Committee on their use of the “nominal pricing
ing in Boston, plaintiffs moved for class certification of all or exception” in calculating Best Price under the Medicaid Rebate
some portion of their claims. On August 16, 2005, the trial judge Program. This request was sent to manufacturers for the top
certified Massachusetts-only classes of private insurers provid- twenty drugs reimbursed under the Medicaid Program. The
ing “Medi-gap” insurance coverage and private payers for physi- Company’s pharmaceutical companies have responded to the
cian-administered drugs where payments were based on AWP. request. In February 2005 a request for supplemental informa-
Thejudge also allowed plaintiffs to filea new complaint seeking tion was received from the Senate Finance Committee, which has
to name proper parties to represent a national class of individu- been responded to by the Company’s pharmaceutical companies.
als who made co-payments for physician-administered drugs In August 2004, Johnson & Johnson Health Care Systems,
covered by Medicare. TheCourt of Appeals declined to allow an Inc. (HCS), a Johnson & Johnson subsidiary, received a subpoena
appeal of those issues and in January 2006, the court certified from the Dallas, Texas U.S. Attorney’s Office seeking documents
the national class as noted above. A trial of the two Massachu- relating to the relationships between the group purchasing
setts-only class actions concludedbefore the Massachusetts organization Novation and HCS and other Johnson & Johnson
District Court in December 2006. A decision is expected in the subsidiaries. TheCompany’s subsidiaries involved have
first quarter of 2007. Thetrial judge has scheduled jurytrials to responded to the subpoena.
begin in April 2007 in the national class action on behalf of In September 2004, Ortho Biotech Inc. (Ortho Biotech),
individuals who paid co-payments for Medicare Part B drugs. received a subpoena from the U.S. Office of Inspector General’s
Trialin the action broughtby the Attorney General of the State of Denver, Colorado field office seeking documents directed to
Alabama making allegations related to AWP isset for November sales and marketing of PROCRIT®(Epoetin alfa) from 1997 to
2007. Additional AWP cases broughtby various Attorney Gen- the present, as well as to dealings with U.S. Oncology Inc., a
erals are expected to beset for trial in 2008. healthcare services network for oncologists. Ortho Biotech has
responded to the subpoena.
OTHER
In July 2003, Centocor Corporation received a request thatit
voluntarily provide documents and information to thecriminal
division of the U.S. Attorney’s Office, Districtof New Jersey, in
connection with its investigation into various Centocor market-
ing practices. Subsequent requests for documents have been
received from theU.S. Attorney’s Office. Both theCompany and
Centocor responded, or are in the process of responding, to
these requests for documents and information.
72 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTIn March 2005, DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. (DePuy), a regarding sales and marketing and side-effects of RISPERDAL®,
Johnson &Johnson subsidiary, received a subpoena from the as well as interactions with State officials regarding the State’s
U.S. Attorney’s Office, Districtof New Jersey, seeking records formulary for Medicaid-reimbursed drugs. Janssen is in the
concerning contractual relationships between DePuy process of responding to the subpoena.
Orthopaedics and surgeons or surgeons-in-training involved in On November 27, 2006, Centocor received a subpoena
hip and knee replacement and reconstructive surgery. Other seeking documents in connection with an investigation being
leading orthopaedic companies are known to have received a conducted by the Office of the United States Attorney for the
similar subpoena. DePuy Orthopaedics is responding to the sub- Central District of California regarding Centocor’s Average
poena as well as a follow-on subpoena for documents. A number Selling Price (ASP) calculations for REMICADE®under the
of employees of DePuyhave been subpoenaed to testify before a company’s Contract Purchase Program. Centocor is producing
grand jury in connection with this investigation. material responsive to the subpoena andcooperating with
In June 2005, the U.S. Senate Committee on Finance theinvestigation.
requested the Company to produce information regarding use On February 12, 2007, Johnson & Johnson voluntarily dis-
byseveral of its pharmaceutical subsidiaries of educational closed to the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and the U.S. Secu-
grants. A similar request was sent to other major pharmaceutical rities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that subsidiaries outside
companies. In July 2005, the Committee specifically requested the United States are believed to have made improper payments
information about educational grants in connection with the in connection with the sale of medical devices in two small-
drug PROPULSID®. A follow up request was received from the market countries,which payments may fall within the jurisdiction
Committee for additional information in January 2006. of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.The Company will provide
In July 2005, Scios Inc. (Scios), a Johnson & Johnson sub- additional information to DOJ and SEC, and will cooperate with
sidiary, received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, the agencies’ reviews of these matters.
District of Massachusetts, seeking documents related to the In September 2004, plaintiffs in an employment discrimina-
sales and marketing of NATRECOR®. Scios is responding to the tion litigation initiated against the Company in 2001 in Federal
subpoena. In early August 2005, Scios was advised that the District Court in New Jersey moved to certify a class of all
investigation wouldbe handled by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for African American and Hispanic salaried employees of the Com-
the Northern District of California in San Francisco. pany and its affiliates in the U.S., who were employed at any time
In September 2005, Johnson & Johnson received a sub- from November 1997 to the present. Plaintiffs seek monetary
poena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, Districtof Massachusetts, damages for theperiod 1997 through the present (including
seeking documents related to sales and marketing of eight drugs punitive damages) and equitable relief. TheCourt denied plain-
to Omnicare, Inc., amanager of pharmaceutical benefits for tiffs’ class certification motion in December 2006. Theplaintiffs
long-term care facilities. TheJohnson &Johnson subsidiaries have sought reconsideration of that decision. TheCompany dis-
involved are responding to the subpoena. Several employees putes the allegations in the lawsuit and is vigorously defending
ofthe Company’s pharmaceutical subsidiaries have been against them.
subpoenaed to testify before a grand jury in connection with TheCompany, along with its wholly-owned subsidiaries,
thisinvestigation. Ethicon, Inc., Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. and HCS are defendants
In January 2006, Janssen received a civil investigative in a federal antitrustaction challenging suture and endo-
demand from the Texas Attorney General seeking broad cate- mechanical contracts with group purchasing organizations and
gories of documents related to the sales andmarketing of hospitals in which discounts are predicated on a hospital achiev-
RISPERDAL®. Janssen is responding to the request. In October ing specified market share targets for both categories of prod-
2006, the Texas Attorney General joined a qui tam action filed ucts. Trialin that action, Conmed v. Johnson & Johnson et al.
against Janssen in Texas state court alleging off label marketing (S.D.N.Y., filed November 6, 2003), is currently scheduled for
of RISPERDAL®and seeking compensation for alleged adverse April 2007. Conmed alleges damages up to $1.8 billion, which
reactions due to RISPERDAL®. damages wouldbe trebled under the antitrust laws if such dam-
In February 2006, Johnson & Johnson received a subpoena ages, and liability, are successfully established at trial. In late
from the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC) request- December 2005 and early 2006, three purported class actions
ing documents relating to the participation by several Johnson & were filed on behalf of purchasers of endo-mechanical instru-
Johnson subsidiaries in the United Nations Iraq Oil For Food ments. These actions have been filed in the Federal District Court
Program. Thesubsidiaries are cooperating with the SEC in pro- for theCentral District of California.
ducing responsive documents. In November 2005, Amgen filed suit against Hoffmann-
In June 2006, DePuy received a subpoena from the U.S. LaRoche, Inc. in the U.S. District Court for theDistrict of Massa-
Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, requesting documents chusetts seeking a declaration that the Rocheproduct CERA,
related to the manufacture, marketing and sale of orthopaedic which Roche has indicated it will seek to introduce into the
devices, and had search warrants executed in connection with United States, infringes a number of Amgen patents concerning
the investigation. DePuy is responding to the request for docu- EPO. Amgen licenses and manufactures EPO for salein the
ments. In the wake of publicity about the subpoena,DePuy was
served with five civil antitrustclass actions.
In September 2006, Janssen received a subpoena from the
Attorney General of the State of California seekingdocuments
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 73United States by the Company’s Ortho Biotech Inc. subsidiary for Thediluted net earnings per share calculation includes the dilu-
non-dialysis indications. Thesuit is in its preliminarystages. tive effect of convertible debt: a decrease in interest expense of
In October 2006, Wyeth, Inc. initiated litigation in Delaware $4 million, $11 million and $14 million after tax for years 2006,
against Cordis Corporation alleging that Cordis breached the 2005 and 2004, respectively.
license and supply agreement pursuant to which Wyeth supplies Diluted net earnings per share excludes 43 million,45million
Cordis the drug Rapamycin which is used in connection with and 42 million shares underlying stock options for 2006, 2005 and
Cordis’ CYPHER®Sirolimus-elutingStent. Cordis has com- 2004, respectively, as the exercise price of these options wasgreater
menced its own action in Delaware seeking a declaration that no than their average market value, which wouldresult in an anti-
breach has occurred. dilutive effect on diluted earnings per share.
TheCompany is also involved in a number of other patent,
trademark and other lawsuits incidental to its business. Theulti-
20. Capital and Treasury Stock
mate legal and financial liability of the Company in respect to all
claims, lawsuits and proceedings referred to above cannot be Changes in treasury stock were:
estimated with any certainty. However, in the Company’s opin-
(Amounts in MillionsExcept Treasury Stock ______T_r_e_a_su_r_y_ S_t_o_c_k______
ion, based on its examination of these matters, its experience to
Number of Shares in Thousands) Shares Amount
date and discussions with counsel, theultimate outcomeof legal
Balance at December 28, 2003 151,869 $ 6,146
proceedings, net of liabilities accrued in the Company’s balance
Employee compensation and stock option plans (25,340) (1,403)
sheet, is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the
Conversion of subordinated debentures (2,432) (123)
Company’s financial position, although the resolution in any
Repurchase of common stock 24,722 1,384
reporting period of one or more of these matters couldhave a
significant impact on the Company’s results of operations and Balance at January 2, 2005 148,819 6,004
cash flows for that period. Employee compensation and stock option plans (22,708) (1,458)
Conversion of subordinated debentures (7,976) (501)
Repurchase of common stock 27,229 1,920
19. Earnings Per Share
Balance at January 1, 2006 145,364 5,965
Thefollowing is a reconciliation of basic net earnings per share to
Employee compensation and stock option plans (26,526) (1,677)
diluted net earnings per share for theyears ended December 31,
Conversion of subordinated debentures (540) (36)
2006, January 1, 2006 and January 2, 2005:
Repurchase of common stock 108,314 6,722
(Shares in Millions Except Per Share Data) 2006 2005 2004
Balance at December 31, 2006 226,612 $10,974
Basic net earnings per share $ 3.76 3.38 2.76
Average shares
Shares of common stock issued were 3,119,842,000 shares at
outstanding—basic 2,936.4 2,973.9 2,968.4
the end of 2006, 2005 and 2004.
Potential shares exercisable
Cash dividends paid were $1.455 per share in 2006, com-
under stock option plans 207.0 203.1 186.5
pared with dividends of $1.275 per share in 2005 and $1.095 per
Less: shares repurchased
share in 2004.
under treasury stock method (186.3) (178.6) (174.6)
Convertible debt shares 3.9 4.4 12.4
Adjusted average shares
outstanding—diluted 2,961.0 3,002.8 2,992.7
Diluted net earnings per share $ 3.73 3.35 2.74
74 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORT21. Selected Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)
Selected unaudited quarterly financial data for theyears 2006 and 2005 are summarized below:
_______________________2_0_0_6_______________________ _______________________2_0_0_5_______________________
First Second Third Fourth First Second Third Fourth
(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Data) Quarter(1) Quarter(2) Quarter(3) Quarter(4) Quarter Quarter(5) Quarter Quarter(6)
Segmentsales to customers
Consumer $ 2,355 2,398 2,456 2,565 2,280 2,278 2,231 2,307
Pharmaceutical 5,626 5,810 5,881 5,950 5,755 5,628 5,457 5,482
Med Devices & Diagnostics 5,011 5,155 4,950 5,167 4,797 4,856 4,622 4,821
Total sales $12,992 13,363 13,287 13,682 12,832 12,762 12,310 12,610
Gross profit 9,380 9,575 9,637 9,675 9,336 9,240 8,956 8,972
Earnings before provision
for taxes on income 4,615 3,603 3,661 2,708 3,927 3,266 3,420 2,503
Net earnings 3,305 2,820 2,760 2,168 2,839 2,588 2,538 2,095
Basic net earnings per share $ 1.11 0.96 0.95 0.75 0.96 0.87 0.85 0.70
Diluted net earnings per share $ 1.10 0.95 0.94 0.74 0.94 0.86 0.85 0.70
(1)The first quarter of 2006 includes an after-tax gain of $368 million for the Guidant acquisition termination fee and an after-tax charge of $29 million for In-Process Research and
Development (IPR&D).
(2)The second quarter of 2006 includes an after-tax charge of $87 million for IPR&D.
(3)The third quarter of 2006 includes an after-tax charge of $115 million for IPR&D.
(4)The fourth quarter of 2006 includes an after-tax charge of $217 million for IPR&D.
(5)The second quarter of 2005 includes an after-tax charge of $353 millionfor IPR&D and a $225 million tax benefit, dueto the reversal of a tax liability related to a technical
correction associated with the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.
(6)The fourth quarter of 2005 includes an after-tax charge of $6 million for IPR&D. Shifts in sales to lower tax jurisdictions and expenditures to higher tax jurisdictions had a more
significant impact on the fiscal fourth quarter’s tax rate.
22. Subsequent Events
During the fiscal first quarter of 2007 the Company completed the acquisition of Conor Medsystems, Inc., acardiovascular device
company, for $1.4 billion in cash.
During the fiscal first quarter of 2007, in accordance with the regulatory approval for the acquisition of the Consumer Healthcare
business of Pfizer Inc., the Company announced the closing of the divestiture of KAOPECTATE®, UNISOM®, CORTIZONE®,
BALMEX®and ACT®products to Chattem, Inc. for $410million in cash.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 75Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Under Section 404 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, information and communication, andmonitoring.TheCom-
management is required to assess the effectiveness of the pany’s assessment included extensive documenting, evaluating
Company’s internal control over financial reportingas of theendof and testing the design and operating effectiveness of its internal
each fiscal year and report, based onthat assessment, whether controls over financial reporting.
theCompany’s internal control over financial reportingis effective. On December 20, 2006, the Company completed theacqui-
Management of the Company is responsible for establish- sition of the ConsumerHealthcare business of Pfizer Inc. Due to
ingand maintaining adequate internal control over financial the close proximity of the completiondate ofthe acquisition to
reporting. TheCompany’s internal control over financial report- the date ofmanagement’s assessment of the effectiveness of the
ingisdesigned to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliabil- Company’s internal controlover financialreporting, management
ity of the Company’s financial reporting and the preparation of excluded the ConsumerHealthcare business of Pfizer Inc. from
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted its assessment of internal controlover financialreporting.
accountingprinciples. Thetotal assets of the Consumer Healthcare business of
Internal controls over financial reporting, no matter how well Pfizer Inc., which were primarily intangible assets and goodwill,
designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, internal control represented 26% of the Company’s total assets for the fiscal
over financial reporting determined to be effective can provide year ended December 31, 2006.
only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement Theoperating results of the Consumer Healthcare business
preparation and may not prevent or detect all misstatements. of Pfizer Inc. acquired on December 20, 2006 will be reported in
Moreover, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future the Company’s financial statements beginning in 2007, as 2006
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inade- results subsequent to the acquisition date were not significant.
quate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of Based on the Company’s processes and assessment, as
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. described above,management has concluded that, as of
TheCompany’s management has assessed the effective- December 31, 2006, the Company’s internal control over finan-
ness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as cial reporting was effective.
ofDecember 31, 2006.In making this assessment, the Company Management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the
used the criteria establishedby the Committee of Sponsoring Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of Decem-
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in “Internal ber 31, 2006 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,
Control-Integrated Framework.”Thesecriteria are in the areas an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in
ofcontrol environment, risk assessment, control activities, their report which appears herein.
76 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2006 ANNUAL REPORTReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of audit. We conducted our audit of internal control over financial
Johnson &Johnson: reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
We have completed integrated audits of Johnson &Johnson’s standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
consolidated financial statements and of its internal control over reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, in accordance with over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight An audit of internal control over financial reporting includes
Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
presented below. reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
Consolidated financial statements control, andperformingsuch other procedures as we consider
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit
and the related consolidatedstatements of earnings, statements provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.
of equity, and statements of cash flows present fairly, in all mate- A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
rialrespects, the financial position of Johnson & Johnson and its process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
Subsidiaries (“the Company”)at December 31, 2006, and Janu- reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
ary 1, 2006, and the results of their operations and their cash statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December accepted accountingprinciples.A company’s internal control
31, 2006in conformity with accountingprinciples generally over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
accepted in the United States of America. These financial state- that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
ments are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and disposi-
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial state- tions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
ments based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Com- preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
pany Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those stan- accepted accountingprinciples, and that receipts and expendi-
dards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain tures of the company are being made only in accordance with
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements authorizations of management and directors of the company;
are free of material misstatement. An audit of financial state- and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
ments includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assess- of the company’s assets that couldhave a material effect on the
ing the accounting principles used and significantestimates financial statements.
made by management, and evaluating the overall financial state- Because ofits inherent limitations, internal control over
ment presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reason- financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
able basis for our opinion. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future peri-
As discussed in Note 13, due to theimplementation of SFAS ods are subject to the risk that controls may becomeinadequate
No. 158 the Company changed the manner in which itaccounts for because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compli-
pensions and other benefits as of December 31, 2006. ance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
As described in “Management’s Report on Internal Control
Internal control over financialreporting over Financial Reporting,” management has excluded the Con-
Also, in our opinion, management’s assessment, included in the sumer Healthcare business of PfizerInc. from its assessment of
accompanying, “Management’s Report on Internal Control over internal control overfinancial reporting as of December 31, 2006,
Financial Reporting,” that the Company maintained effective because it was acquired by the Company on December 20, 2006.
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 We have alsoexcluded the ConsumerHealthcare business of
based onInternal Control — Integrated Frameworkissued by the PfizerInc. from our audit of internal control overfinancial report-
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Com- ing. Total assets of the ConsumerHealthcare business of Pfizer
mission (COSO), is fairly stated,in all material respects, based Inc. represent 26% of related consolidated financial statement
on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company amounts as ofDecember 31, 2006.
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on crite-
ria established inInternal Control — Integrated Frameworkissued
by the COSO. TheCompany’s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and
for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on New York, New York
management’s assessment and on the effectiveness of the Com- February 20, 2007
pany’s internal control over financial reporting based on our
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 77Summary of Operations and Statistical Data
1996-2006
(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Figures) 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 1996
Sales to customers—U.S. $29,775 28,377 27,770 25,274 22,455 19,825 17,316 15,532 12,901 11,814 10,851
Sales to customers—International 23,549 22,137 19,578 16,588 13,843 12,492 11,856 11,825 10,910 10,708 10,536
Total sales 53,324 50,514 47,348 41,862 36,298 32,317 29,172 27,357 23,811 22,522 21,387
Cost of products sold 15,057 14,010 13,474 12,231 10,498 9,622 8,987 8,559 7,711 7,355 7,187
Selling, marketing and administrative
expenses 17,433 17,211 16,174 14,463 12,520 11,510 10,675 10,182 8,595 8,215 7,862
Researchexpense 7,125 6,462 5,344 4,834 4,094 3,704 3,186 2,821 2,538 2,386 2,115
Purchased in-process research and
development 559 362 18 918 189 105 66 — 298 108 —
Interest income (829) (487) (195) (177) (256) (456) (429) (266) (302) (263) (196)
Interest expense, net of portion
capitalized 63 54 187 207 160 153 204 255 186 179 176
Other (income) expense, net (671) (214) 15 (385) 294 185 (94) 119 565 248 122
38,737 37,398 35,017 32,091 27,499 24,823 22,595 21,670 19,591 18,228 17,266
Earnings before provisionfor taxes
on income 14,587 13,116 12,331 9,771 8,799 7,494 6,577 5,687 4,220 4,294 4,121
Provisionfor taxes on income 3,534 3,056 4,151 2,923 2,522 2,089 1,813 1,554 1,196 1,224 1,179
Net earnings 11,053 10,060 8,180 6,848 6,277 5,405 4,764 4,133 3,024 3,070 2,942
Percent of sales to customers 20.7 19.9 17.3 16.4 17.3 16.7 16.3 15.1 12.7 13.6 13.8
Diluted net earnings per share of
common stock $ 3.73 3.35 2.74 2.29 2.06 1.75 1.55 1.34 1.00 1.01 0.97
Percent return on average
shareholders’equity 28.3 28.2 27.3 27.1 26.4 24.0 25.3 26.0 21.6 24.3 27.1
Percent increaseoverpreviousyear:
Sales to customers 5.6 6.7 13.1 15.3 12.3 10.8 6.6 14.9 5.7 5.3 15.4
Diluted net earnings per share 11.3 22.3 19.7 11.2 17.7 12.9 15.7 34.0 (1.0) 4.1 15.5
Supplementary expense data:
Cost of materials and services(1) $22,912 22,328 21,053 18,568 16,540 15,333 14,113 13,922 11,779 11,702 11,341
Total employment costs 13,444 12,364 11,581 10,542 8,942 8,153 7,376 6,727 6,021 5,634 5,469
Depreciation and amortization 2,177 2,093 2,124 1,869 1,662 1,605 1,592 1,510 1,335 1,117 1,047
Maintenance and repairs(2) 506 510 462 395 360 372 327 322 286 270 285
Total tax expense(3) 4,857 4,285 5,215 3,890 3,325 2,854 2,517 2,221 1,845 1,811 1,747
Supplementary balance sheet data:
Property, plant and equipment, net 13,044 10,830 10,436 9,846 8,710 7,719 7,409 7,155 6,767 6,204 6,025
Additions to property, plant and
equipment 2,666 2,632 2,175 2,262 2,099 1,731 1,689 1,822 1,610 1,454 1,427
Total assets 70,556 58,864 54,039 48,858 40,984 38,771 34,435 31,163 29,019 23,634 22,254
Long-term debt 2,014 2,017 2,565 2,955 2,022 2,217 3,163 3,429 2,652 2,084 2,347
Operating cash flow 14,248 11,799 11,089 10,571 8,135 8,781 6,889 5,913 5,104 4,209 4,000
Common stock information
Dividends paid per share $ 1.455 1.275 1.095 0.925 0.795 0.700 0.620 0.550 0.490 0.425 0.368
Shareholders’equity per share $ 13.59 13.01 10.95 9.25 7.79 8.05 6.82 5.73 4.95 4.52 4.07
Market price per share (year-end close) $ 66.02 60.10 63.42 50.62 53.11 59.86 52.53 46.63 41.94 32.44 25.25
Average shares outstanding
(millions)—basic 2,936.4 2,973.9 2,968.4 2,968.1 2,998.3 3,033.8 2,993.5 2,978.2 2,973.6 2,951.9 2,938.0
—diluted 2,961.0 3,002.8 2,992.7 2,995.1 3,049.1 3,089.3 3,075.2 3,090.4 3,067.0 3,050.0 3,046.2
Employees (thousands) 122.2 115.6 109.9 110.6 108.3 101.8 100.9 99.8 96.1 92.6 91.5
(1)Netof interest and other income.
(2)Also included in cost of materials and services category.
(3)Includes taxes on income, payroll, property and otherbusiness taxes.
78 SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS AND STATISTICAL DATAShareholder Return Performance Graphs
ear umulat e 140
otal ShareholderReturn
Johnson& Johnson
1 0
& n
& h 100
n
& h
n n 0
ear GR
J&J 4.2
& .
0 01 0 0 04 0 0
& h 2.
& . YEAR
ear umulat e 400
otal ShareholderReturn
Johnson& Johnson
00
& n
& h
n
00
& h
n n
ear GR
J&J 2.
& .4
100 00 01 0 0 04 0 0
& h .
& .
SHAREHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE GRAPHS 79
RA
YEAR
RA
Shareholder Return Performance Graphs
1 00 00
100
1 001 1 1 00
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
Johnson& Johnson $100.00 $ .11 $ 0. 1 $11 . $10 .11 $1 .
& n $100.00 $ . $ . $110. 1 $11 . $1 .
& h n $100.00 $ . $ . $ 0. $ . $ 0.0
& h n n $100.00 $ 0. $11 . $1 .0 $1 .1 $1 0.
1 6 1 1 1 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
Johnson& Johnson $100.00 $1 . $1 . 0 $1 . $ . $ . $ . 1 $ . $ .1 $ . $ 10.
& n $100.00 $1 . $1 1. $ 0 . $1 . $1 . $1 . 1 $1 . $1 . $1 . $ .1
& h n $100.00 $1 . $ . $ 01. $ . $ . $1 . $ 0 .11 $1 . $1 . $ 11.
& h n n $100.00 $1 . $1 .0 $1 0. $ . 0 $ 1 . $1 . $ . $ 0. 0 $ 0. $ 0 .
A A RE RReconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This tableis provided to reconcilecertain financial disclosures in the Letter to Shareholders, page 1.
’06 vs. ’05 ’05 vs. ’04
(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Data) 2006 2005 2004 % Change % Change
Net Earnings—as reported $11,053 10,060 8,180 9.9% 23.0
In-process research & development (IPR&D) charges 448 359 12
Guidant acquisition agreement termination fee (368) — —
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA):
Tax cost associated with repatriation of undistributed international earnings — — 789
Tax gain associated with a technical correction — (225) —
Net Earnings—as adjusted $11,133 10,194 8,981 9.2% 13.5
Diluted net earnings per share—as reported $ 3.73 3.35 2.74 11.3% 22.3
In-process research & development charges 0.15 0.12 —
Guidant acquisition agreement termination fee (0.12) — —
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004:
Tax cost associated with repatriation of undistributed international earnings — — 0.26
Tax gain associated with a technical correction — (0.08) —
Diluted net earnings per share—as adjusted $ 3.76 3.39 3.00 10.9% 13.0
TheCompany believes investors gain additional perspective of underlying business trends and results by providing a measure of net
earnings and diluted net earnings per share that excludes IPR&D charges, the Guidant acquisition agreement termination fee, and the
tax cost associated with funds repatriated under, and the tax gain associated with a technical correction made to, the AJCA, in order
to evaluate ongoing business operations. Thesenon-GAAP financial measures should not be considered replacements for, and should
be read together with, the mostcomparable GAAP financial measures.
80 RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURESPRINCIPAL OFFICE The Company is required to file as an DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza Exhibit to its Form 10-K for each fiscal year The Plan allows for full or partial
New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933 certifications under Section 302 of the dividend reinvestment, and additional
(732) 524-0400 Sarbanes-Oxley Act signed by the Chief monthly cash investments up to $50,000 per
Executive Officer and the Chief Financial year, in Johnson & Johnson common stock
ANNUAL MEETING
Officer. In addition, the Company is required without brokerage commissions or service
The Annual Meeting of Shareholders will take
to submit a certification signed by the Chief charges on stock purchases. If you are
place April 26, 2007, at the Hyatt Regency
Executive Officer to the New York Stock interested in participating in the Plan and
New Brunswick, 2 Albany Street, New
Exchange within 30 days following the need an authorization form and/or more
Brunswick, New Jersey. The meeting will
Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Copies of information, please call Computershare
convene at 10 a.m. All shareholders are
the certifications filed for previous years Trust Company, N.A. at (800) 328-9033
cordially invited to attend. A formal Notice
are posted on the Company’s Corporate or (781) 575-2718 (outside the U.S.).
of Meeting, Proxy Statement and Proxy have
Governance Web site, and future certifica-
been sent to shareholders. HEARING IMPAIRED
tions will be posted promptly upon filing.
Shareholders who have inquiries
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
COMMON STOCK regarding stock-related matters can
Copies of the Company’s 2006 Annual Report
Listed on New York Stock Exchange communicate directly with Computershare
on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
Stock Symbol JNJ Trust Company, N.A. via a telecommunica-
10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K to
tions device (TDD). The telephone number
the Securities and Exchange Commission, SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS CONTACT
for this service is (800) 952-9245
Proxy Statement, and this Annual Report are Steven M. Rosenberg
or (781) 575-2692 (outside the U.S.).
available online at www.jnj.com, or to share- Corporate Secretary
holders without charge upon written request (732) 524-2455
Registered shareholders who wish to receive
to the Secretary at the Company’s principal
INVESTOR RELATIONS CONTACT electronic notice of online access to future
address or by calling (800) 328-9033
Louise Mehrotra annual reports and proxy materials instead
or (781) 575-2718 (outside the U.S.).
Vice President, Investor Relations of paper copies may register online at
In addition, on the Company’s (800) 950-5089 www.econsent.com/jnj.
Corporate Governance Web site at (732) 524-6492
WEB SITE
www.investor.jnj.com/governance,
TRANSFER AGENT AND REGISTRAR www.jnj.com
shareholders can see the Company’s
Questions regarding stock holdings,
Principles of Corporate Governance, For more information on
certificate replacement/transfer, dividends
Charters of the Audit Committee, Johnson & Johnson history:
and address changes should be directed to:
Compensation & Benefits Committee www.kilmerhouse.com
Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
and Nominating & Corporate Governance
250 Royall St. Entire contents
Committee, Policy on Business Conduct
Canton, MA 02021 ©Johnson & Johnson 2007
for employees and Code of Business
(800) 328-9033 or
Conduct & Ethics for Members of the
(781) 575-2718 (outside the U.S.)
Board of Directors and Executive Officers.
Internet: www.computershare.com/jnj
Copies of these documents are available to
shareholders without charge upon written
request to the Secretary at the Company’s The paper used in this publication is made from 30% post-con-
principal address. sumer recycled fiber, is Forest Stewardship Council® certified
for chain of custody and was manufactured with green energy
credits for purchase of electricity generated from renewable-
energy sources such as wind and low-impact hydro resources.
“Checkmark-and-tree” logo ©1996 Forest Stewardship Council
THE FOLLOWING TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES OF JOHNSON & JOHNSON AND ITS AFFILIATED COMPANIES APPEAR IN THIS REPORT:
1-DAY ACUVUE, 1-DAY ACUVUE DEFINE, 1-DAY ACUVUE MOIST, 2-IN-1 WARMING, ACTIVE NATURALS, ACTIVE PHOTOBARRIER COMPLEX, ACUVUE, ACUVUE ADVANCE,
ACUVUE OASYS, ADVANTAGE, ALZA, AMBI, AMBI EVEN & CLEAR, ANGIOGUARD, ANIMAS, AVEENO, AVEENO ULTRA CALMING, BABYCENTER, BAND-AID, BENADRYL,
BIOSENSE WEBSTER, CAREFREE, CARTO, CELLSEARCH, CENTOCOR, CHARITE, CILAG GMBH INTERNATIONAL, CLEAN & CLEAR, COMPEED, CONSTA, CONTOUR
TRANSTAR, CORDIS, CORTAID, CYPHER SELECT, DACOGEN, DEPUY, DEPUY ASR, DEPUY MICROHIP, DEPUY MITEK, DEPUY ORTHOPAEDICS, DEPUY PROXIMA, DISCOVER,
DOXIL, DURAGESIC, E-TRANS, ECHELON 60 ENDOPATH, ENDOPATH ETS, ENDOPATH XCEL, EPREX/ERYPO, ETHICON, ETHICON ENDO-SURGERY, ETHICON OMNEX,
EVOTECH, FLOXIN, GENESEARCH, GOTABS, GROUPE VENDOME, GYNECARE MORCELLEX, GYNECARE TVT SECUR, HARMONIC ACE, HARMONIC WAVE, HELIOPLEX,
INVEGA, IONSYS, JANSSEN-CILAG, JANSSEN PHARMACEUTICAL K.K., JOHNSON & JOHNSON, JOHNSON & JOHNSON PEDIATRIC INSTITUTE, JOHNSON’S, JURNISTA, K-Y,
LABORATORIES VENDOME, LACREON, LE PETIT MARSEILLAIS, LIFESCAN, LIGAMAX, LISTERINE, LUBRIDERM, MAMMOTONE, MCNEIL, MICROTIP, MILAGRO, NATRECOR,
NEOSPORIN, NEUTROGENA, NEUTROGENA MINERAL SHEERS, NICORETTE, ONETOUCH, ONETOUCH HORIZON, ONETOUCH ULTRA, ONETOUCH ULTRAEASY,
ONETOUCH ULTRAMINI, OROS, ORTHO, ORTHO BIOTECH, ORTHO-CLINICAL DIAGNOSTICS, POROCOAT, PRECISE, PREZISTA, PRIM’AGE, PROCRIT/EPREX, QUICK
PACK, REACH, REACH CLEANPASTE, REACH INBETWEEN, REMBRANDT, REMICADE, RISPERDAL, RISPERDAL CONSTA, RISPERDAL M-TAB, SENSUAL MIST, SOFTLOTION,
SOFTWASH, SOOTHING NATURALS, SPLENDA, STAYFREE, SUDAFED, SURGIFLO, TIBOTEC, TOPAMAX, TOUCH MASSAGE, TYLENOL, ULTRAM, ULTRAPRO, VELCADE,
VERIDEX, VIACTIV, VIRCO, VISINE, VISTAKON, VITROS, XIAN-JANSSEN PHARMACEUTICAL, YONDELIS, ZARNESTRA
THE FOLLOWING TRADEMARKS OF OTHER COMPANIES ALSO APPEAR IN THIS REPORT:
ACIPHEX/PARIET (Eisai Co., Ltd.); ACUSON AcuNav (Siemens Medical Solutions); Associado Saude de Familia; China Hospital Management Association;
Chinese Ministry of Health, Division of Child Health; The Conservation Fund; CRESCENDO (ClearStream Techonologies Group, PLC); DACOGEN (MGI Pharma);
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation; Forest Stewardship Council; Glen C. Olsen Hospital (Project Mercy); Green Power Partnership; Healthy
Communities, Healthy Ecosystems (World Wildlife Fund); INSEAD; Kentucky Department of Public Health; LEVAQUIN (Daichi Pharmaceutical Co.); March of
Dimes (Prematurity Prevention); Medhane-Alem School (Project Mercy); The Nature Conservancy; Neonatal Resuscitation Program; REGATTA (Brivant Ltd.);
SAFE KIDS WORLDWIDE; The Trust for Public Land; UCLA Management Development Institute; ULTRAM ER (Biovail Corporation); U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency; VELCADE (Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc.); The Wilderness Society; World Wildlife Fund; YONDELIS (PharmaMar)
CORPORATE AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATIONOUR CREDO
We believe our first responsibility is to the doctors, nurses and patients, to mothers and
fathers and all others who use our products and services. In meeting their needs, everything
we do must be of high quality. We must constantly strive to reduce our costs in order to
maintain reasonable prices. Customers’ orders must be serviced promptly and accurately.
Our suppliers and distributors must have an opportunity to make a fair profit.
We are responsible to our employees, the men and women who work with us throughout
the world. Everyone must be considered as an individual. We must respect their dignity
and recognize their merit. They must have a sense of security in their jobs. Compensation
must be fair and adequate, and working conditions clean, orderly and safe. We must
be mindful of ways to help our employees fulfill their family responsibilities. Employees
must feel free to make suggestions and complaints. There must be equal opportunity
for employment, development and advancement for those qualified. We must provide
competent management, and their actions must be just and ethical.
We are responsible to the communities in which we live and work and to the world community
as well. We must be good citizens—support good works and charities and bear our fair
share of taxes. We must encourage civic improvements and better health and education.
We must maintain in good order the property we are privileged to use, protecting the
environment and natural resources.
Our final responsibility is to our stockholders. Business must make a sound profit.
We must experiment with new ideas. Research must be carried on, innovative
programs developed and mistakes paid for. New equipment must be purchased, new
facilities provided and new products launched. Reserves must be created to provide
for adverse times. When we operate according to these principles, the stockholders
should realize a fair return.
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza
New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933