ANNUAL REPOR t 2009In one of our most challenging years,
the people of Johnson & Johnson delivered
results that were as impressive as any
we have ever achieved.
We are stronger today than a year ago,
with outstanding new products, robust pipelines
and talented people—people who remain inspired and
united by a common purpose . . . caring for others.
ON THE COVER The people of Johnson & Johnson remain true to who we are, motivated by finding innovations that touch lives.
For example, a simple blood test that captures, identifies and counts circulating tumor cells in patients with certain types of metastatic
cancer can, along with other tests, support physicians in making more informed patient care decisions. For Jesica Harrington, shown
here with her family, even this little bit of information about her own fight offered hope. Read her story on page 10.CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
To Our Shareholders
As I reflect on the year that just passed, negative impact of currency was 2.6 percent.
and the decades since the founding of Adjusted earnings were $12.9 billion1, and
Johnson & Johnson in 1886, I can say without adjusted earnings per share increased
hesitation that the year 2009 was one of the 1.8 percent1. We also generated free cash flow
most challenging in our history. Faced with of approximately $14.2 billion2. Achieving
significant patent expirations worth nearly these results in a year when operational sales
$3 billion in sales, the most severe global were essentially flat reflects outstanding
Financial Highlights: 2009 vs. 2008
economic downturn many of us have ever efforts by our leadership teams to manage
experienced and increased competition their businesses and contain costs.
% Change
across our markets, our people delivered During 2009, Johnson & Johnson
Total Company 2009 2008 Total Ops
reSsaulelsts that were as i $m 61p .r 9e Bssive a $s
6
3a .n 7y
B
we
(2.9%) (0.3%)
delivered a total shareholder return of
have ever achieved. Fundamental beliefs 11.3 percent. This was a strong performance,
Adjusted Earnings* $12.9B $12.9B
embedded in Our Credo guided their although a lower rate of return for one
Adjusted EPS* $4.63 $4.55 1.8%
decisions and actions. year than some of our comparative indices.
Free Cash Flow ** $14.2B $11.9B
We delivered on our financial commit- Over two and three years, we outperformed
ments, continued to pursue long-term growth the Dow Jones Industrial Average, the
WilliAM C. WelDON
opportunities, and emerged stronger and Standard & Poor’s 500 and other drug and
*** NN oo nn -- GG AA AA PP fm ine aa ns cu iare l m; e ex ac slu ud ree :s d I eP fR in& eD d ac sh a or pg ee rs a ta inn gd co ath se hr f s lop we c leia sl s i t ce am ps ital spending; estimated as of 1/25/10 Chairman, Board of Directors, and
well-positioned for sustainable growth. health care indices. This reflects solid perfor-
Chief Executive Officer
ExcTehrroputg fhr aollm th iRs,o thsely pneo epmle oafi l, 2/14/10 mance during the recent market downturn,
Johnson & Johnson remained inspired and united by a common when we retained more relative value than these indices. Over the
purpose: caring for others. More than ever, we know that caring longer term, Johnson & Johnson continued to outperform most
Tom,
for the health and well-being of people is not only an outstanding stock indices in total shareholder returns.
bMusyi nceossm bumt ae mnitsss ioonn t hthate t rcuhlya tortusc h&e sg lirvaeps.hs:
2009 HigHligHts While managing short-term challenges,
we took important steps for sustainable growth and an expanded
2D0i0v9i dReesnudltss p Wehr esnh 2a0r0e9 bise g$a1n,. 9w3e 0se. t expectations for financial
leadership position in health care.
results anticipating the business and economic challenges,
including a forecast of our first reported sales decline in 76 years. · We strengthened core businesses and invested in the launches
Thanks to the diligence of our people and disciplined management of a number of recently approved innovative products. R&D
focus, 2009 results were at or above most expectations. investments from the last several years are coming to fruition
Worldwide sales were $61.9 billion, a decrease of 2.9 percent in exciting and meaningful ways, and in 2009 we invested
from 2008. Operational results declined 0.3 percent, and the another $7 billion in R&D.
NET SALES DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE DIVIDENDS PAID PER SHARE
(in billions of dollars) $61.1 $63.7 $61.9 (in dollars) $4.57 $4.40 (in dollars) $1.795 $1.930
$50.5 $53.3 $3.35 $3.73 $3.63 $1.455 $1.620
$1.275
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER 1
net sales $ 61.9
diluted earnings per share $4.40
dividends paid per share $ 1.930· Of course, we must meet additional challenges ahead. The
In addition to advancing pipelines through internal develop-
effects of the economic downturn, such as high unemployment
ment, we continued to acquire, invest in and collaborate
rates and decreased access to health care, shrinking hospital
with other companies to generate new platforms for growth.
budgets and avoidance of out-of-pocket costs for discretionary
Since the beginning of 2008, we have made eight major acquisi-
health care purchases, present hurdles for our industry. These,
tions and invested in several strategic transactions. Recent
coupled with the rising costs of regulatory requirements—
highlights include the acquisitions of Cougar Biotechnology, Inc.
such as larger and more costly clinical trials—create a dynamic
for oncology, and a key compound from Elan Corporation, plc
health care environment that requires disciplined action
for Alzheimer’s disease. We formed strategic alliances with
for success.
Crucell NV for vaccines and Gilead Sciences, Inc. for HIV
I believe that the brightest and most innovative health care
therapies. In 2010, we acquired Acclarent, Inc. for minimally
companies—with dedicated, focused people who care about the
invasive sinus surgery.
business of caring—will thrive in this evolving and still-changing
·
We also continued to expand our global presence, including
environment. Johnson & Johnson is one of these companies.
building operations and expanding our reach in the BRIC
countries—Brazil, Russia, India and China—and other gROWtH PRiORities Johnson & Johnson has tremendous assets
fast-growing developing markets. for growth: our people, products, pipeline and global presence.
· At the foundation is Our Credo, a common set of values unifying
And we continued to play a role in helping to shape health
our approximately 115,500 people around the world, and an
care policy around the world, given our broad perspective on
operating model that has served us well for decades. Our unwaver-
the sector.
ing operating model includes a commitment to being broadly
The future of health care is promising and exciting. It is not,
based in health care, a decentralized management approach that
however, without ongoing challenges that must be addressed.
keeps our people close to customers, managing for the long term
Development costs are increasing. Changes in patient and con-
and a focus on people and values. Our businesses rely on Our
sumer behaviors, as well as constrained health care budgets, are
Credo and our operating model to provide a consistent framework
lingering effects from the economic downturn.
for decision-making while leaving specific strategies to local
As we assessed this evolving global environment in 2009, we
business or franchise leaders, who are closest to the customer.
concluded that restructuring our organization was needed to
Within our strategic framework we galvanize our organization
ensure sustainable growth. This included the necessary plan to
around high-level business priorities that reflect the changing
eliminate approximately 7,500 positions, by far the most difficult
global environment. These provide leaders with a common set of
decision of the past year. However, our actions will increase
growth priorities. For 2010, these include:
efficiency and make additional resources available for investment
·
Innovative Products: Our growth has always been based on
in long-term growth platforms and new product launches. We
scientific innovations that serve unmet patient and customer
began implementing these restructuring plans shortly after our
needs in a meaningful way. This has created market leadership
announcement in November 2009 and are continuing in accor-
positions in many of our businesses. We will stay focused on
dance with the required consultation procedures in each market.
bringing forth innovative, accessible and effective products—
MOviNg AHeAD Every difficult period brings with it a correspond- and entirely new business models—that address the most
ing opportunity for growth. Despite a challenging year, we are prevalent health care needs.
stronger today than we were a year ago. We have outstanding new ·
Robust Pipelines: Johnson & Johnson has one of the most
products, robust pipelines and talented people working in a
robust product pipelines in our history. The multitude of
streamlined organization with more resources for growth.
opportunities necessitate that we target, invest in and manage
In addition to our strengths, we see favorable trends in the
its development. A mix of internal and external sources will
health care market:
sustain a flow of new products that provide a competitive
·
The global health care market is expected to grow almost advantage. We fully expect the new products coming from
5 percent per year over the next five years. With our broad base today’s pipeline to accelerate the proportion of our sales driven
of businesses, we participate in about one-third of this overall by newer products.
market. And we are focused on some of the fastest growing seg- ·
Global Presence: As a global health care leader, we must
ments in health care. In fact, many segments where we compete
continue to expand our presence and execute strategies in an
are growing as fast as, or faster than, the overall market.
appropriate way for diverse markets and customers. Our
·
Many nations, such as China, India and Brazil, are increasing approach will be strategic, effective and cost-efficient to
access to care for their citizens. While progress is still under address local needs. This may mean relating to customers in
way, there are sizable growth opportunities for companies like new ways, tailoring product innovation to market needs or
Johnson & Johnson that are deeply immersed in these markets building health care capacity. For Johnson & Johnson, this
and the health care needs of their people. also means a special focus on high-growth emerging markets
· such as the BRIC countries.
And finally, our expertise and business strategies are aligning
·
with many evolving trends in health care—including Talented People: The hallmark of Johnson & Johnson is our
personalized medicine, comparative effectiveness, wellness talented people. They are passionate about winning in the
and prevention, companion diagnostics and biomarkers— marketplace and making a difference in people’s lives. I believe
many of which you will read about in the following pages. we have some of the best talent in the health care industry.
2 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORT
JOHNsON & JOHNsON 2009 ANNuAl RePORt CORPORAte level RevisiONs MARCH 4, 2010 9:58 AM CHAiRMAN’s letteROur ability to develop, challenge, motivate and reward a diverse
workforce is our cornerstone for sustained growth.
STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK
The people in our Medical Devices and Diagnostics, Pharma-
ceuticals and Consumer segments have consistently delivered
against plans for growth. These segments are each market leaders,
with No. 1 or No. 2 positions in many of their businesses. In fact,
70 percent of sales are from products with leading market share O U R C R EDO
positions, with approximately one-fourth of sales last year coming
from new products introduced in the past five years.
OPERATING MODEL
MeDiCAl DeviCes AND DiA gNOstiCs The Medical Devices and
Diagnostics (MD&D) franchises comprise the world’s largest
medical technology business, with 2009 sales of $23.6 billion,
an increase of 4.2 percent operationally. Four of the seven
franchises had solid sales gains during the past year. Tougher bROADly bAseD iN
competition for drug-eluting stents and tighter out-of-pocket HuMAN HeAltH
spending on products like contact lenses and diabetes test strips
pressured sales in our Cordis Corporation, Diabetes and Vision
Care franchises. MANAgeD FOR DeCeNtRAlizeD
Growth products spanned a range of treatment categories, tHe lONg teRM APPROACH
including wound care products and biosurgicals from Ethicon,
Inc.; energy technology and the REALIZE® Adjustable Gastric
PeOPle AND
Band-C from Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc.; artificial joints, spine
vAlues
and sports medicine products from DePuy, Inc.; and new products
from Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc.
Several products introduced new standards of care for the
medical devices industry. CARTO® 3, from Biosense Webster, Inc.,
gives physicians a detailed three-dimensional view of the heart so
they can treat cardiac arrhythmias, including atrial fibrillation.
BUSINESS PRIORITIES
The SURGIFLO® Hemostatic Matrix Kit, our advanced flowable
hemostat for use in a broad range of surgical procedures, is the
first product launch from the acquisition of Omrix Biopharma-
ceuticals, Inc. and an example of technology resulting from the
combination of our medical device and biologics expertise. iNNOvAtive RObust
Our Vision Care franchise continued the global rollout PRODuCts PiPeliNes
of 1·Day ACUVUE® TruEye™, the world’s first daily disposable
silicone hydrogel contact lens and an exciting breakthrough in
contact lens technology. We anticipate introduction in the
glObAl tAleNteD
U.S. in 2010.
PReseNCe PeOPle
MD&D also strengthened its portfolio through several recent
strategic acquisitions. These included Acclarent, Inc. in the ear,
nose and throat surgical space; Finsbury Orthopaedics, Ltd. in
hip implants; and Gloster Europe, a developer of innovative
area-decontamination technologies to help prevent health care-
acquired infections, a growing global concern.
The pipeline is strong with promising new products such as
SEDASYS® System, the first computer-assisted personalized
sedation system, and the PINNACLE® CoMplete™ Acetabular Hip
strategic Framework for sustainable growth
System, the first ceramic-on-metal hip replacement. Both products
received favorable recommendations from U.S. Food and Drug The source of our enduring strength is a fundamental
Administration (FDA) Advisory Committees in 2009. commitment to Our Credo and an operating model
In addition to new product introductions and robust pipelines, that has served us well for decades. High-level business
MD&D continually expanded its global reach, particularly in priorities reflect the changing global environment and
emerging markets, with research and development centers, provide leaders with a common set of growth priorities.
professional training centers and manufacturing facilities. Our strategic framework has delivered enduring
performance and, we believe, will continue to provide
PHARMACeutiCAls Our Pharmaceuticals segment, with sales long-term value for our shareholders.
of $22.5 billion, represents the world’s seventh largest pharmaceu-
tical business and fourth largest biotech business. The segment
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER 3
JOHNsON & JOHNsON 2009 ANNuAl RePORt CORPORAte level RevisiONs MARCH 4, 2010 9:58 AM CHAiRMAN’s letteRMedical Devices and Diagnostics experienced an operational sales decline of 6.1 percent in 2009,
segment sales reflecting the loss of nearly $3 billion in sales due to losing market
sales by Major Franchise (in billions of dollars)
exclusivity for RISPERDAL® (risperidone) and TOPAMAX®
2009 Sales: $23.6 billion ETHICON (topiramate). Excluding the impact of generic competition,
ENDO-SURGERY®
Sales Change $4.5 pharmaceutical sales increased by approximately 7 percent
Total: 1.9% 4.8% operationally.
Operational*: 4.2% This growth was driven by larger products, including
REMICADE® (infliximab), for the treatment of a number of
ETHICON® ORTHO-CLINICAL
$4.1 DIAGNOSTICS® immune-mediated inflammatory diseases; CONCERTA®
$2.0
7.3% (methylphenidate HCl) Extended-release Tablets in attention
6.6%
deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD); and RISPERDAL®
CONSTA® (risperidone) Long-Acting Injection, an atypical
DIA CABE RT EES
VISION
antipsychotic administered every two weeks for the treatment
$2.4 CARE of schizophrenia or the maintenance of bipolar 1 disorder.
(3.7%) $2.5
0.2% Promising newer products continued their positive growth
trajectory, such as PREZISTA® (darunavir) in HIV; VELCADE®
(bortezomib), for multiple myeloma, developed in partnership
DEPUY® CORDIS® with Millennium: The Takeda Oncology Company (we have rights
$5.4 $2.7
4.6% (10.3%) outside the U.S.); INVEGA® (paliperidone), a once-daily atypical
antipsychotic for the treatment of schizophrenia or acute
schizoaffective disorder; and INTELENCE™ (etravirine), for
Pharmaceutical segment sales
HIV combination therapy.
sales by Major Product (in billions of dollars)
Our pharmaceutical pipeline is one of the most robust in our
2009 Sales: $22.5 billion ACIPHEX®/PARIET®
$1.1 history. We launched five newly approved drugs in 2009:
Sales Change
(5.4%) CONCERTA® SIMPONI™ (golimumab) and STELARA™ (ustekinumab) in
Total: (8.3%) $1.3
Operational*: (6.1%) 6.3% immunology; NUCYNTA® (tapentadol) Immediate Release
DURAGESIC® Tablets for pain relief and INVEGA® SUSTENNA™ (paliperidone
$0.9
palmitate) for the treatment of schizophrenia; and PRILIGY™
OTHER (14.3%)
$7.6 (dapoxetine) in select countries across the world in sexual health.
6.6% LE FV LA OQ XU ININ ®®/ In addition, we continue to expand our core products with new
$1.6
indications, a practice we have done well historically. For example,
(2.6%)
REMICADE® now has 15 FDA-approved indications across a broad
TOPAMAX® spectrum of immune system disorders.
$1.2
PROCRIT®/ Our future pipeline is promising. An important product in
(57.9%) EPREX®
$2.2 registration is rivaroxaban, which we are co-developing with Bayer
(8.7%)
HealthCare AG. Rivaroxaban is a novel oral anticoagulant that
RISPERDAL®
CONSTA®
$1.4 may prevent a host of thrombotic conditions, including venous
8.9% RISPERDAL® RE $MI 4CA .3DE® thromboembolism and stroke in atrial fibrillation. It is being
$0.9 14.8% evaluated in five different indications. And we have important
(57.7%)
compounds in Phase III clinical trials, including treatments for
Consumer segment sales diabetes, prostate cancer and Alzheimer’s disease.
Building on our already strong pipeline, we engaged in
sales by Major Franchise (in billions of dollars)
2009 Sales: $15.8 billion acquisitions and innovative agreements and collaborations with
Sales Change companies that offer potentially significant advances in patient
Total: (1.6%) care. These include a potential first-in-class treatment for slowing
Operational*: 2.0% W HO EM ALE TN H’S the progression of Alzheimer’s disease (Elan Corporation, plc);
$1.9
a potential universal monoclonal antibody product for the
OTC (0.8%)
PHARMACEUTICALS treatment and prevention of influenza (Crucell NV); an HIV
& NUTRITIONALS
$ 5.6 therapy with a single combination pill (Gilead Sciences, Inc.);
(4.5%)
and a potential breakthrough in prostate cancer (Cougar
WOUND
CARE/ Biotechnology, Inc.).
OTHER
$1.1 While strengthening its pipeline, our Pharmaceuticals business
9.4%
expanded geographically, with a focus on emerging markets. We
ORAL CARE
$1.6 have been expanding our sales reach in China; maintaining a
(3.4%) strong manufacturing footprint in China, Mexico and Brazil; and
developing our R&D presence in emerging markets like India and
BABY CARE China by establishing an R&D operation in Mumbai, an R&D head-
$2.1 SKIN CARE
$3.5 quarters in Shanghai and a collaboration with Tianjin Medical
(4.5%)
2.5%
University Cancer Hospital on biomarker research.
* Operational excludes the impact of currency
4 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORT
JOHNsON & JOHNsON 2009 ANNuAl RePORt CORPORAte level RevisiONs MARCH 4, 2010 9:58 AM CHAiRMAN’s letteRCONsuMeR Our Consumer business Our enduring business preventing diseases. At Johnson & Johnson
continues to distinguish itself with science- companies worldwide, our people make a
model, the strength
based innovation, proprietary technologies difference in their local communities.
of our current products,
and recommendations by health care profes- Putting others first reminds us that
sionals. We are the premier consumer health pipelines that have never Johnson & Johnson people can transcend
care business. Over a billion people around whatever challenges come our way.
been more robust,
the world count on our consumer products As world citizens, we continually
a strong balance sheet
for themselves and their families. make strides to enhance the sustainability
In 2009, Consumer sales were $15.8 and a growing global of our facilities and packaging. This year,
billion, growing 2 percent operationally our annual report is more environmentally
presence provide
despite a soft economy. Operational sales friendly. We have adopted 100 percent
the critical ingredients
increased in the Skin Care, Women’s Health, post-consumer recycled paper for the inside
Oral Care and Wound Care franchises, with for sustained leadership pages, reduced the number of printed pages
.
growth in several product lines, including and developed an online version, accessible
NEUTROGENA®, AVEENO®, LISTERINE® and at www.investor.jnj.com/2009annualreport.
SPLENDA®. Innovation in iconic brands is a We invite you to join our sustainability
cornerstone of our Consumer business. In efforts by electing to receive next year’s
2009 we launched LISTERINE® TOTAL CARE annual report and shareholder materials
in the U.S. and AVEENO® NOURISH+ Hair electronically. A tear-off card at the end
Care, among others. of this report provides easy-to-follow
We also developed new ways of doing instructions.
business. Noteworthy developments include the opening of
the first NEUTROGENA® store, in Mumbai, India; the expansion OuR COMMitMeNt tO yOu To you, our shareholders, I commit
of skin iD™, an online personalized acne solution sold directly to that Johnson & Johnson will be a leader in health care. We have led
consumers; and the selling of products on home shopping channels. many firsts for the health care industry: the first antiseptic
More than half of Consumer sales come from markets outside bandages, the first soft disposable contact lenses and the first
the United States. Deep consumer insights into local markets and coronary stent, among others. And we will continue this leadership
relevant product introductions drive global expansion, particu- tradition well into the future. We are a company that is deeply
larly in developing markets. Recent acquisitions continue to fuel committed to what we do and to the people we serve.
global growth, such as the thriving DABAO® brand in China, Vania Our enduring business model, the strength of our current
Expansion SNC in Europe and LE PETIT MARSEILLAIS®, expanding products, pipelines that have never been more robust, a strong
beyond its French heritage into new markets. balance sheet and a growing global presence provide the critical
ingredients for sustained leadership. Most important, the people
tHe CHANgiNg u.s. HeAltH C ARe lANDsCAPe The health care of Johnson & Johnson carry on the Company’s legacy with an
landscape has changed at an unprecedented pace over the past inspiration of caring that passes from generation to generation
few years and will continue to evolve. of employees.
As the health care debate unfolds in the United States and other For all these reasons, I remain confident that Johnson & Johnson
markets, Johnson & Johnson supports reform that expands access will lead in health care, drive important innovations for customers
to care, improves the long-term sustainability of the U.S. health and patients, and achieve long-term, superior rates of return for
care system and builds on the best aspects, including incentives for you, our loyal shareholders.
medical progress. We believe that appropriate reforms can both
improve patient care and create growth opportunities for health
care companies.
Johnson & Johnson is well-positioned for a changing landscape.
We remain focused on adding value to the health care system, William C. Weldon
developing programs that promote wellness and creating better Chairman, Board of Directors, and Chief Executive Officer
solutions for chronic care. We remain true to who we are,
motivated by the goal of providing meaningful innovations that March 17, 2010
benefit society.
A CitizeN OF tHe W ORlD We care in ways that can change the
world. Beyond our medical breakthroughs, we are committed to
the people and causes that need our support. We work with hun-
dreds of partners worldwide to make life-changing and sustainable
differences in health care. When natural disasters strike, such as
the earthquake in Haiti, we work with our partners to provide cash
as well as products from across our businesses.
(1) Excludes purchased in-process research and development and other special items.
Our philanthropic efforts globally focus on saving and improving
(2) Free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital spending.
the lives of women and children, building health care capacity and See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, page 68.
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER 5
JOHNsON & JOHNsON 2009 ANNuAl RePORt CORPORAte level RevisiONs MARCH 4, 2010 9:58 AM CHAiRMAN’s letteRmmeeddiiccaall ddeevviicceess && ddiiaaggnnoossttiiccss China and Japan. In some centers,
training is designed to serve the country’s
empowering health care
or region’s unique clinical needs; other
centers are designed to train professionals
from around the world.
Providers Worldwide
In Brazil, as in Russia, training is
needed to improve patient care—an
Professional education centers help surgeons improve their skills important part of the MD&D
strategy for emerging markets. The
and perform more advanced surgeries.
Johnson & Johnson Medical Innovation
Institute, which opened in São Paolo
during the first quarter of 2010, is the first
Johnson & Johnson institute of its kind in
Latin America. It includes surgery rooms
equipped with the latest medical
W
hile Russia needs more than 40,000 skilled technology and simulators. The institute
will train about 3,000 health care
physicians to meet patient demands
professionals this year.
for high-tech medical procedures, only 5,000 “The institute will help health care
professionals keep current with the latest
are trained to perform these techniques.
medical advances, enhance medical
But a first-of-its-kind professional mistakes are a significant risk,” says teaching, encourage clinical studies,
education center is bringing together Olga Vereschagina, Strategic Affairs facilitate knowledge-sharing and much
government, the scientific community Director, Johnson & Johnson, LLC. more,” says George Marques, Institute
and international business to fill the gap “In addition, patients have to endure Director. “In short, it will improve the
and improve health care in Russia. “Since conventional, more invasive surgeries standard of care for Latin Americans.”
my training at the Russian Center for because so few doctors are trained to Beyond Latin America, global
Professional Education, I’ve performed perform minimally invasive procedures.” orthopaedic and neurological care are
laparoscopic operations on some of the “The need for advanced surgical advancing thanks to the DePuy Institute,
most widespread conditions in Russia, training is one of the greatest barriers to LLC, an education, training and research
such as appendectomies, ovarian cysts and quality health care in Russia,” says center that opened in Raynham, Mass.,
peritonitis,” says Sergey Gorodkov, M.D., Arman Voskertchyan, Managing Director, in August 2009. It will offer more than
one of 3,000 physicians who have been Johnson & Johnson, LLC. “Our goal is to 300 programs annually, covering the
trained at the center. “I’ve improved my transform professional education here. latest concepts, techniques and
skills, and I’m performing operations In doing so, we will help fulfill Our Credo technologies in the areas of minimally
quicker and with greater confidence.” responsibility to health care professionals invasive surgery, aging spine, deformity,
The center is a public-private and patients.” neurological disease, joint replacement
partnership between the Ministry of At the Russian center in Kazan, 40 percent and trauma care.
Health Care of the Republic of Tatarstan of study is based on theory and 60 percent The commitment to professional
and Johnson & Johnson. It was on practice. “The simulators at the center education has long been established in the
established in record time—less than a gave me the opportunity to improve my United States and originated with the
year—and was officially opened in manual skills. Now I’m trained to take part Endo-Surgery Institute in Cincinnati, Ohio.
February 2008 by the president of Russia, in complicated laparoscopy interventions,” “The DePuy Institute and other
Dmitry Medvedev. says Dr. Gorodkov. centers serve as tangible evidence that we
What’s most significant is the center’s are serious about setting new standards of
impact on patient care. “As a result of Caring ThroughouT The World excellence in professional education,”
this partnership, the number of high- Johnson & Johnson has more than 25 says Diana Bacci-Walsh, Worldwide Vice
technology interventions during the past professional education centers around the President of Professional Education,
two years in our region alone has world, including the Johnson & Johnson DePuy Institute, LLC. “Our commitment
increased from 8,000 to 19,000,” says Diabetes Institute, LLC and the vision is to continue to address unmet
Airat Farrakhov, Minister of Health Care, care institute™, LLC. educational and clinical needs in a rapidly
Republic of Tatarstan. “We should achieve For the Medical Devices and Diagnostics changing health care environment,
another two-fold increment in the (MD&D) business, the centers support the to help lead to better patient care.”
next two years.” organization’s desire to improve education
imProVed SkillS Dr. Gorodkov is one
in emerging and developed markets and
of 3,000 physicians who have been trained
SkillS ThaT TranSform Care establish innovative partnerships with at the Russian Center for Professional
Historically, medical school training government. Most recently, centers opened Education. “I’ve improved my skills, and
in Russia has focused on lecture rather in São Paulo, Brazil, and Raynham, Mass.; I’m performing operations quicker and
than applied practice. “Fatal medical other sites include Germany, France, India, with greater confidence,” he says.
6 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTmedical devices & diagnostics
a Breakthrough
in Breast
reconstruction
A new single-surgery option speeds healing.
Just weeks after innovation of Ethicon, Inc. and
Mentor Worldwide, LLC.
Elyssa Weintraub’s
Dr. Downey used FlexHD®
surgery for breast Accellular Dermal Matrix , a
donated human dermis allograft
cancer in summer
available exclusively through
2009, she returned to Ethicon, to create a sling in
Elyssa’s breast to support
cheering at her sons’
MemoryGel® breast implants,
sporting events, to produced by Mentor.
Johnson & Johnson, through
her stationary bike
its subsidiary Ethicon, Inc.,
and to hiking with her acquired Mentor Corp., a
leading supplier of medical
husband.
products for the large and fast-
“I got right back into the growing aesthetic market,
swing of things,” says the in January 2009. Mentor was a
49-year-old women’s boutique natural fit for Ethicon, a leading
owner of Palm Desert, Calif., provider of suture, mesh and
“and with a positive attitude.” other products for a wide range
When Elyssa was diagnosed of surgical procedures.
with breast cancer, her plastic In combining forces, Ethicon
surgeon, Susan Downey, M.D., and Mentor aspire to be the
F.A.C.S., told her she was a trusted global leader in
good candidate for having her aesthetic medicine.
breasts reconstructed in a “The addition of Mentor
single surgery during her expands our capacity to provide
mastectomy. innovative, science-based Surgeons found that nearly broad surgeon community, and
“It was a slam dunk, solutions that can restore 70 percent of eligible women Mentor is highly respected
no-brainer for me,” says Elyssa, patients’ appearance, self- aren’t told about all their options. among plastic surgeons. “With
who had one operation and one esteem and quality of life,” says “This is an important conversa- our new partnership, we can
recovery, and never experi- Gary Pruden, Company Group tion that should take place when educate doctors and patients to
enced not having breasts. “I’m Chairman with responsibility a woman is diagnosed so she’s make a real difference in the
a busy woman, and I was able for the Ethicon franchise. informed about choices that can lives of women who face these
to get right back to my family Not all patients know about improve her quality of life,” says decisions,” says Delia Cook,
and my business.” their reconstructive options. Dr. Downey. Group Product Director,
The single-surgery recon- While the number of breast- Before that conversation can Mentor Worldwide, LLC.
structive option that Elyssa reconstruction procedures happen, surgeons must know Just two weeks after her
chose was possible because of increased in 2008, a study by the what they can offer. Ethicon has a surgery, Elyssa returned with
the combined technologies and American Society of Plastic distinguished legacy with the confidence to her shop, B.G.’s
8 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTmapping the
human heart
New technology from Biosense abnormalities and fix them
Webster, Inc. is giving physicians using a procedure known as
a detailed three-dimensional ablation.
view of the heart so they can treat “The carto® 3 System
dangerous cardiac arrhythmias, represents a significant
including atrial fibrillation advance for patients and physi-
(AFib). More than 20 million cians,” says Gerd Hindricks,
people worldwide suffer from M.D., Head of the Department
AFib, the leading cause of stroke of Electrophysiology at
among people over age 65. University of Leipzig Hospital
The carto® 3 System, in Germany. “The accurate
launched globally in 2009, takes 3D maps, together with the
physicians on a visual journey ability to visualize the catheter
through the heart. The system as it is guided through the
maps crucial details of the heart heart chamber, enable me to
in color and in real time, helping efficiently perform cardiac
physicians to pinpoint ablation.”
innovation Propels
hip Business
After 50 years of continued hip bearing to be considered
innovation, DePuy Orthopaedics, for approval in the U.S. (While
Inc. is the market leader in hip DePuy Orthopaedics awaits the
replacement in many parts of the FDA’s final decision, the
world. Pinnacle® complete™ System
“We offer the broadest range remains an investigational
of hip bearings—advanced device limited by U.S. law to
materials for the ball and socket investigational use only.)
joint of the hip—of any The Pinnacle® complete™
orthopaedic company,” says ceramic-on-metal bearing has
Randy Kilburn, Vice President, been marketed in 40 countries
U.S. Marketing, DePuy outside the U.S. since 2007.
Orthopaedics, Inc. “Surgeons Also in 2009, the company
have a significant range of launched the silent™ Hip,
options from which to choose a minimally invasive hip stem
Single-Surger Y oPTion After a breast cancer diagnosis, to meet the complex clinical available outside the U.S. only.
Elyssa was able to have her mastectomy and reconstruction in a
needs of patients.” The silent™ stem, which is
single surgery—an option that’s possible because of combined
DePuy Orthopaedics continues inserted into the femur, is
technologies from Ethicon and its Mentor business unit.
to pioneer new hip bearings that more bone-preserving than
Eclectic. “It’s crucial for me to she says. provide high stability and low traditional stems. In December,
look good in my clothes,” says “Elyssa chose an advance in wear, meeting the needs of the DePuy Orthopaedics
Elyssa, who wears the colorful breast reconstruction that’s growing number of active announced the acquisition
California lifestyle clothes she fantastic for a woman who needs patients. In August, a U.S. Food of Finsbury Orthopaedics Ltd.
sells. What’s more, Elyssa’s to run her business and keep her and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United Kingdom,
customers expect to see her strong self-esteem,” says Dr. Advisory Panel recommended a move that makes it the only
running the shop, as she Downey. “It helped her restore approval of the Pinnacle® company with a large-diameter
often does alone. “My business her body and return to her life complete™ Acetabular Hip one-piece ceramic-on-ceramic
won’t prosper unless I’m there,” quickly.” System, the first ceramic-on-metal hip bearing.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORT 9medical devices & diagnostics
hope in the Fight
against cancer
A simple test allows doctors to personalize care.
“Everything happened so fast, to detect changes in a patient’s status and
provides information about the person’s
and there wasn’t much
prognosis, to help physicians make more
information: ‘You have cancer, informed patient care decisions.
“I asked my oncologist, if it was as easy as
you’ll have your surgery and
getting my blood drawn, to please order
then radiation’—it was this test and I’d be forever grateful,” says
Jesica. “When the first test came back and it
a generic recipe for a patient
was one cell—and anything less than five is
with breast cancer,” says a good prognosis—that gave me hope.”
Jesica Harrington, now 35
enumeraTing CanCer CellS
and a breast cancer survivor.
The cellsearch® System is the first
Jesica was pregnant with twins when diagnostic test that automates the capture
she received her diagnosis in November and detection of CTCs, tumor cells that
2008. A month later, she lost one of the have detached from solid tumors and
babies and underwent a mastectomy entered the patient’s blood. It assesses
before beginning four rounds of CTCs to determine the prognosis and
chemotherapy. Jesica simply wanted to overall survival of patients with
know how her doctors would determine metastatic breast, colorectal or
whether the treatment was fighting her prostate cancer at any time during the
cancer. “I told them hope and prayer was course of treatment.
just not enough for me,” she recalls. The Cleveland Clinic ranked the
Because Jesica was pregnant, her technology used in the cellsearch®
oncologist couldn’t use the usual methods System as the top medical innovation for
of imaging to get diagnostic information 2009, predicting it will have a significant
or details about her prognosis once impact on health care. And in September,
beginning treatment. Jesica’s father the cellsearch® CTC test was honored
understood his daughter’s need for with the first-ever Prix Galien USA Award
information to fuel her hope of beating for Best Medical Technology. The Prix
the cancer. On the Internet, he found out Galien recognizes technical, scientific Scientist, Cellular Research, Veridex, LLC.
about the cellsearch® Circulating and clinical research skills necessary to “Our progress in this area has been driven
Tumor Cell (CTC) test* from Veridex, LLC. develop innovative medicines and by drug development needs and oncology
This simple blood test captures, devices, and is considered the industry’s trials.”
identifies and counts circulating tumor highest accolade. Candidates are evaluated The cellsearch® platform is used in
cells in patients with certain types of on the innovative nature of their develop- a Joint Venture Convergence Project that
metastatic cancer. When used in ment and applicability of the technology, involves Veridex, LLC and Centocor
combination with other tests, the and on whether the discovery can be Ortho Biotech, Inc., an oncology
cellsearch® CTC test allows a doctor applied to future biomedical science. pharmaceutical area of business. It is also
used in important academic collabora-
*The CELLSEARCH® Circulating Tumor Cell test PerSonalizing mediCine “The future tions, such as with Royal Marsden
is not approved to demonstrate that any current
goes beyond counting cancer cells toward Hospital in London and Memorial Sloan-
line of therapy is any more or less effective
than any other or no therapy. CELLSEARCH® using the cellsearch® platform to Kettering Cancer Center in New York. The
results and imaging results are not equivalent characterize individual patients’ tumors by two are clinical study sites for abiraterone
in assessing the transition of patients between
gathering data about protein and genetic acetate, a late-stage, first-in-class
non-progressive disease and progressive
disease. markers,” says David Chianese, Principle compound for the treatment of prostate
10 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTcancer, gained in the acquisition of Cougar knoWledge and SuPPor T Jesica, a teacher in Castle Rock, Colo., is an outspoken
Biotechnology, Inc. by Johnson & Johnson breast cancer survivor. Results from a cellsearch® Circulating Tumor Cell test during
Jesica’s treatment fueled her hope of beating cancer as well as the support of her family,
in July 2009.
friends and students. The girls sported pink hairspray, while the boys shaved their
“In our pivotal trials with abiraterone
hair when Jesica lost hers.
acetate, we’ve used cellsearch® as
an indicator of drug effectiveness,” says whether a medicine is right or most ultimately transform the treatment
Bill Hait, M.D., Ph.D., Global Therapeutic effective for a given patient is a primary of cancer.”
Head of Oncology & Hematology, objective in the pursuit of personalized Jesica delivered a healthy baby boy,
Centocor Research & Development, Inc. medicine. “Partnering with the drug Gunner. She completed her cancer
“Through collaborations, we’re biomarkers group in the pharmaceutical treatment and is in remission.
developing molecular characterizations organization gives us a real opportunity to But looking back, Jesica felt her
of cancer cells to begin to define potentially expand the capability of individuality was lost in a cookbook
predictive biomarkers that may help cellsearch® to predict and monitor approach to her cancer treatment.
to identify which patients will do best therapeutic responses,” says Mark Carle She says, “When I talked to my doctors,
on the drug.” Connelly, Ph.D., Director of Cellular they told me ‘Everyone is different,’
The ability to understand quickly Research, Veridex, LLC. “The vision is to and I said, ‘Exactly.’”
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORT 11consumer
enlightening
our customers
Introducing science to the art of beauty
helps inform product selection.
A
first-of-its kind flagship NEUTROGENA®
store opened in Mumbai, India, in 2009, creating
a new opportunity for consumers. “Walking into
the store, they see a dermatologist and have more
confidence about the products available to meet their skin
care needs,” says Geetanjali Shetty, M.D., F.C.P.S., D.D.V.,
a dermatologist who works in the unique setting.
“Today the role of dermatologists assembled to come up with innovative skin
extends beyond just treating problematic care solutions that can be leveraged across
areas to educating consumers about brands. Such teams were the first to
things like sun damage, the importance stabilize retinol, a significant anti-aging
of using sunscreen and use of skin care advance for skin care, and to develop other
regimens.” best-in-class skin care solutions like
With dermatologists in markets HeLIoPLeX® (also known as AcTIVe
around the world recommending PHoToBArrIer comPLeX ™), a
neuTroGenA®, Dr. Shetty says, “The breakthrough in sun protection.
store itself is a good platform for Another example is Feverfew PFe™,
educating people about science-based a proprietary botanical extract with
skin care.” anti-inflammatory and calming properties.
Three scientists who developed
innovative skin Care neuTroGenA®, Feverfew PFe™ were recognized in 2009 says May. “Every claim we make is
along with AVeeno®, roc® and with the prestigious Johnson Medal, substantiated by testing, from preclinical
cLeAn & cLeAr®, is among the well- given annually by Johnson & Johnson testing to skin cultures and in-vitro work
known skin care franchise brands that since 1960 to accomplished researchers to studies on consumers. Our commit-
bring science to the art of beauty. “Beauty for extraordinary creativity and scientific ment to delivering innovative skin care
is about more than science,” says May achievement. Their work provided new is very strong.”
Shana’a, Vice President, Skin Care R&D, scientific information in the area of
Johnson & Johnson Consumer Group of inflammation and skin aging, and brought professional relationships Clinical
Companies. “What we’ve been able to do together science and natural health studies that are shared with professionals
is really bring science and art together to supplements. at medical meetings, such as the American
produce innovative products with great Other skin care researchers have Academy of Dermatology Meeting held
clinical performance, as well as a look, developed a new anti-aging alternative, each March, play a role in forming
smell and feel that’s right.” leveraged across brands and launched in important relationships. Products that
May explains teams with both early 2010. use technologies developed by skin care
R&D and marketing expertise are “Best-in-class is not just a slogan,” R&D researchers from Johnson & Johnson
12 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTin the eYe of the BeholDer A feature of the flagship neuTroGenA® store in Mumbai, India, is the Tru-Vu™ analyzer, a digital
imaging system that uses photographs to create an objective starting point to assess skin’s current condition and monitor progress over
a set period of time. The Tru-Vu™ analyzer helps neuTroGenA® educate and communicate with customers by using photos to show
and enhance problematic areas on the individual’s skin.
companies are recommended to India, well-developed professional was named, was marketed directly
consumers by dermatologists and relationships play an important role in to dermatologists, a novel idea in
other health care professionals. connecting with consumers. Such the 1950s.
A heritage of professional endorsement relationships have been integral from “Each of the brands in the skin care
is part of product messaging and is a key the start for some of the most successful franchise has brought learnings about
to success in many sales channels, ranging products from the skin care franchise. developing these relationships,” says
from traditional retail settings to more AVeeno® was founded in 1945 at the May. “Today we work with
innovative new channels such as home Mayo Clinic with a colloidal oatmeal dermatologists at many different
shopping networks, online sales and even bath that provided the naturally active levels, from product development to
door-to-door sales. benefits of oats. neuTroGenA® soap, consumer education, driving
As with the dermatologists on site in the product for which the company innovation to meet consumer needs.”
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORT 13consumer
Wholesome
skin care
Thrives
New product lines and new
markets for existing products
continue to provide growth
opportunities for the
consumer skin care portfolio.
expanDing BranDs
In France, Le PeTIT
mArseILLAIs™ is outpacing
some of its biggest competi-
tors thanks to its 100-year
heritage, natural ingredients
and good value-for-money
positioning. In 2009,
Le PeTIT mArseILLAIs™
expanded to new markets,
including Belgium,
Switzerland, North Africa and,
most recently, Greece.
For more than 60 years,
refills: Less Is more for AVeeno® has advanced the
science of natural products
johnson ’s
®
consumers in skin care and is a pioneer
in AcTIVe nATurALs®
ingredients. To that end, in
2009 the brand launched the
AcTIVe nATurALs®
InsTITuTe™, an online
“As a packaged goods more than 2 percent of total refills are often used to resource, in the U.S. and
company we must proactively annual JoHnson’s® sales in promote high-volume value Europe, with an aim to
manage waste—the waste that the Asia Pacific region and deals to consumers, while increase knowledge about
results throughout our value 5 percent of JoHnson’s® consumers in emerging natural ingredients in
chain, including the waste our Baby washes and shampoos markets want smaller quanti- skin care.
consumers generate when in that region. ties with less initial packaging. Also in 2009, the brand
they use our products,” says In 2009, JoHnson’s® “Refill or pouch packs are launched a new AVeeno®
Paulette Frank, Vice ToP-To-Toe Self-Foaming also sold in very small sizes, nourIsH+ Hair Care line
President, Sustainability Wash 350 ml refill in Japan was allowing mid-tier consumers with its latest AcTIVe
and Environmental Health upgraded to include a spout for to buy them as the primary nATurALs® ingredient,
& Safety, Johnson & Johnson easier opening and pouring. pack and use quality brands Nourishing Wheat Complex.
Consumer Group of A refill pouch usually costs a like JoHnson’s® at accessible In August, AVeeno® Soothing
Companies. “Refillable pack- fraction of a comparably sized price points,” says Elkana Bath Treatment became the
aging helps us offer a sustain- bottle, helping to reduce Ezekiel, JoHnson’s® Asia first body care product to earn
able solution that meets the consumer costs as well as Pacific Marketing Director, the new Green Good
needs of our consumers.” environmental impact. A refill Johnson & Johnson Consumer Housekeeping Seal. And in
Refills are gaining in uses less material for the Companies, Inc. “These November, AVeeno® kicked
attractiveness to consumers, same volume sold, weighs less packs are driving growth in off a partnership with
particularly in the Asia Pacific and costs less to transport. emerging markets like China TerraCycle to give new life to
region. They now represent In developed markets, and India.” empty AVeeno® product
14 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTtubes by “upcycling” the
material into eco-friendly items.
Changing DemographiCs
Increasing population growth
and rising consumer income
provide an ideal opportunity
for neuTroGenA®, which has
recently increased its focus on
China and India. First intro-
duced in China in 2004,
neuTroGenA® was
relaunched there in 2009 to
continue an impressive
triple-digit compound annual
growth rate.
neuTroGenA® was
launched in India in 2009 and
is supported by an exciting
alternative channel—the
brand’s first flagship store.
(See story on page 12.)
A cleaner,
Healthier
mouth
naturally “This all-natural sweetener use the sun crYsTALs®
can help people reduce their brand, including people with
The LIsTerIne® brand was a sweet intake of calories and diabetes. The pure cane
consistent driver of growth carbohydrates and still satisfy sugar in sun crYsTALs®
throughout 2009. In the U.S., their sweet tooth,” says Marc All-Natural Sweetener does
the brand successfully launched Robinson, Company Group provide a small amount of
LIsTerIne® ToTAL cAre Chairman, OTC/Nutritionals/ calories and carbohydrates
Anticavity Mouthwash—a Two of nature’s Wellness & Prevention. per serving, but up to three
multi-benefit mouthwash that sweetest plants are A sun crYsTALs® packet packets qualifies as a free
works in six ways for a cleaner, contains five calories and food in a diet for diabetes.
the source of the
healthier mouth. The brand provides the sweetness of two In 2009, sun crYsTALs®
also continues its expansion ingredients in SUN teaspoons of sugar. The was among the first
outside the U.S. CRYSTALS® All-Natural sweetener can be mixed into products from the
Rinsing with LIsTerIne® beverages and sprinkled on Johnson & Johnson Family
Sweetener, the newest
brand mouthwashes, plus food. sun crYsTALs® of Companies to earn
flossing and brushing with low-calorie sweetener Granulated Blend, which the eArTHWArDs™
reAcH® products, provides from McNeil McNeil Nutritionals, LLC designation. eArTHWArDs™
the daily essentials for a introduced in September, is is a Johnson & Johnson
Nutritionals, LLC.
healthier mouth. suitable for cooking and program that encourages
During 2009, the makers of Introduced in the U.S. baking; a half-cup provides the teams to find ways to
LISTERINE® and reAcH® in March 2009, sweetness of one cup of sugar. develop earth-friendly
ToTAL cAre introduced a The stevia plant, grown products. sun crYsTALs®
SUN CRYSTALS® is the
limited-edition book and primarily in Paraguay, Brazil, achieved eArTHWArDs™
partnered with the National first sweetener made Japan and China, has been status because the product
Children’s Oral Health from the stevia plant, used by people around the delivers more sweetness
Foundation®: America’s world for hundreds of years. It using 63 percent less raw
pure cane sugar and
Toothfairy to encourage better has no effect on blood-sugar material than its top
oral health care for children. nothing more. levels. The entire family can competitor.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORT 15PPhhaarrmmaacceeuuttiiccaallss high unmet need for effective therapies.”
embracing life anew
tArgeting Unmet needs Alzheimer’s
disease is another devastating
neurodegenerative disorder. It is
A treatment gives a schizophrenia patient the chance to
diagnosed in more than 26 million people
reclaim her independence. worldwide, and some estimates project
that number will quadruple by 2050.
In September 2009, Johnson & Johnson
completed the acquisition of substantially
all the assets and rights of Elan
Corporation, plc—a leading company
M
asako Yoshino once felt schizophrenia was like conducting both antibody and vaccine
research in Alzheimer’s disease—related
a blizzard in her mind. But today, amid cold,
to its Alzheimer’s Immunotherapy
blustering snow in northern Japan, she finds Program (AIP). The AIP includes multiple
compounds currently under evaluation.
warmth and calm with a four-legged friend.
The lead compound, bapineuzumab—
“My schizophrenia symptoms are under was initially approved for the treatment of currently in Phase III clinical trials—is
control,” Yoshino-san says. “I feel my life schizophrenia in the U.S. in 2003 and is being evaluated for slowing the
has a new beginning, and I wish the same registered in more than 80 countries progression of Alzheimer’s disease. A
for others suffering from this condition.” worldwide. Now Yoshino-san is doing well vaccine for Alzheimer’s disease is also
with the medication, which is administered under development. The AIP compounds
UnderstAnding needs Yoshino-san, 27, every two weeks. are being developed through a
is one of 50 million people worldwide who collaboration between Janssen Alzheimer
suffer from schizophrenia. The disease is Long-Acting therApies Long-acting Immunotherapy and Pfizer, Inc.
devastating for patients, their families and therapies that are professionally
society, and presents a significant burden administered allow for identification and coLLAborAtion And innovAtion
to health care systems. intervention when a dose is missed. Biomarkers, integrative informatics and
Patients throughout the world share a Patients and society can benefit when brain imaging are increasingly important
common need from drug therapy: delaying non-adherence—which can lead to in researching neurodegenerative
time to relapse. Studies show that more relapse—is addressed. disorders and developing solutions to
than 80 percent of unmedicated patients For more than 50 years, the Neuroscience meet patient needs. “Such work cannot
with schizophrenia relapse at least once franchise has been committed to meeting progress in isolation,” says Dr. Manji.
within the first five years of diagnosis, and patient needs in the treatment of “Collaborations and partnerships must
the primary reason for relapse is not schizophrenia. Once-daily risPerDal® play a crucial role in arriving at
taking their medications as prescribed. (risperidone), which was first approved in breakthrough solutions.”
Yoshino-san was diagnosed a little more 1993, was a significant new option for For example, in October 2009,
than 10 years ago. She was hospitalized treating the symptoms of schizophrenia. Johnson & Johnson entered into a
and eventually received treatment with In 2003, risPerDal® cONsta® became strategic collaboration with Crucell NV,
medication that gave her some relief from the first long-acting atypical antipsychotic, focusing on the discovery, development
the paranoia and voices haunting her offering every-two-week dosing. And and commercialization of monoclonal
mind. She fell in love, got a job and in 2009, the U.S. Food and Drug Admin- antibodies and vaccines for the treatment
resumed a life she enjoyed. But eventually istration granted marketing approval for and prevention of influenza and other
it became harder for her to take her iNVeGa® susteNNa™ (paliperidone infectious and non-infectious diseases.
medication each day as prescribed, and palmitate) extended-release injectable The collaboration provides access to
she relapsed. suspension, the first atypical antipsychotic technology and expertise in vaccine
“All these new experiences all at with once-monthly maintenance dosing development, which, along with the
once pushed me over the edge, and my approved for the treatment of schizophrenia. Alzheimer’s disease vaccine program,
condition worsened,” says Yoshino-san. “We’ve succeeded in a series of will enable a broad vaccine platform.
“I gradually began to skip taking my innovations that build on our strong Pursuing the best science is part of an
medicines.” heritage and long-term commitment to innovation strategy to continue to meet
She consulted her doctor, who meeting patient needs in schizophrenia,” present and future patient needs.
recommended changing to an says Husseini K. Manji, M.D., F.R.C.P.C., “Solutions for the future may require
intramuscular injection, risPerDal® Global Therapeutic Area Head, small and large molecules, devices
cONsta® (risperidone), which was Neuroscience, Johnson & Johnson and diagnostics,” says Dr. Manji. “We have
granted approval by the Japanese Ministry Pharmaceutical Research & Development, all those pieces, plus a willingness to
of Health in early 2009 and became LLC. “And we also continue to build strong collaborate with experts inside and
available in June. risPerDal® cONsta® programs to treat other disorders with a outside the company.”
16 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTthe treatment of moderate to riding pAin-Free Doug Benson, a carpenter from Elko, Minn.,
severe rheumatoid arthritis enjoys outdoor activities. Since beginning treatment with
Promise with the medicine simPONi™, he’s been able to work without pain and has logged
4,000 miles on his snowmobile this year.
methotrexate, active psoriatic
of relief arthritis alone or with disease that affects an Application was submitted to
methotrexate, and active estimated 125 million people the FDA for tapentadol
ankylosing spondylitis by worldwide and can present in extended release (ER)
regulatory authorities in various forms, ranging from tablets for the management
Canada, Europe and the United mild to severe and disabling. of moderate to severe
States. simPONi™ is With marketing approvals in chronic pain.1
administered subcutaneously 2009 in Europe, the United • The FDA approved
A steady pace of regulatory (under the skin) once a month States, Brazil, Mexico, Australia iNVeGa® susteNNa™
milestones is the mark of using a novel autoinjector or a and Singapore, stelara™ is (paliperidone palmitate),
productive R&D efforts, prefilled syringe. The efficacy now approved in 44 countries. the first once-monthly
critical to future growth and and safety of simPONi™ were • The U.S. Food and Drug atypical antipsychotic for the
to meeting the needs of shown in a Phase III Administration (FDA) treatment of schizophrenia
doctors, nurses and patients. development program with approved NucYNta® (see feature on page 16).
Johnson & Johnson more than 2,000 patients. (tapentadol) Immediate
pharmaceutical operating • stelara™ (ustekinumab) is Release Tablets, the first new Our pipeline is robust. We
companies launched multiple a first-in-class biologic molecule in analgesia in over 25 expect to file several new
new products around the treatment for moderate to years for the relief of moderate compounds between now and
world during 2009, including severe plaque psoriasis that is to severe acute pain in patients 2013 and expand our core
four that address significant administered subcutaneously age 18 or older. NucYNta® is a products with new indications.
unmet medical needs: once every 12 weeks following single molecule with a different See the Pharmaceutical
• simPONi™ (golimumab) two starter doses. Psoriasis is a approach to pain relief. In Pipeline chart at
was approved for the chronic immune-related December, a New Drug www.investor.jnj.com.
18 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTPharmaceuticals
touching prezistA® Applications were also “pipeline in a product”—
In early 2009, the European submitted in 35 other countries. remicaDe® (infliximab)
more Commission approved continues to meet the health
once-daily dosing of 800 mg inteLence® care needs of patients with a
Patients PreZista® (darunavir), a A non-nucleoside reverse number of inflammatory
protease inhibitor, with transcriptase inhibitor diseases involving the
low-dose ritonavir as part of (NNRTI), iNteleNce® immune system. These
combination therapy in (etravirine) is the first medica- include chronic, severe
treatment-naive adults (those tion in the class to demonstrate plaque psoriasis, moderate
who have not previously taken antiviral activity against to severe rheumatoid
Global growth and market HIV medication). This approval NNRTI-resistant virus. Nineteen arthritis, active psoriatic
expansion of core brands broadens the previous additional countries approved arthritis, moderate to severe
proved successful indication of darunavir for the use of iNteleNce® in Crohn’s disease in adults and
pharmaceutical business treatment-experienced treatment-experienced children, moderate to severe
drivers in 2009. HIV-1 patients. patients, including Brazil, ulcerative colitis and active
Several core brands in Following the U.S. Food China, Croatia, Israel and Chile. ankylosing spondylitis.
three franchise areas— and Drug Administration’s iNteleNce® is now approved remicaDe® is available
Infectious Disease, December 2008 approval of in 59 countries in Europe, the in 91 countries and has
Immunology and PreZista®, co-administered Middle East & Africa (EMEA), achieved approvals for 15
Neuroscience (see story on with ritonavir and other the Americas and Asia-Pacific. indications.2 Worldwide,
page 16)—achieved regula- antiretroviral agents, for the remicaDe® has been used
tory milestones, broadening treatment of HIV infection in remicAde® to treat more than 1 million
the patient populations who pediatric patients age 6 and up, An impressive example of the patients. It is part of a
can benefit. These include a lower-dose (75 mg) formula- strategy to address unmet growing immunology
PreZista® (darunavir), tion of PreZista® for pediatric needs by investigating and portfolio that includes
iNteleNce® (etravirine) HIV patients was introduced in seeking approval for additional other potentially versatile
and remicaDe® (infliximab). the U.S. in February 2009. indications—building a compounds.
Pursuing
ment and commercialization
of a new once-daily, fixed-
the Best
dose antiretroviral product.
• In June 2009, Tibotec, Inc.
science
announced a collaboration
with the Global Alliance for
TB Drug Development to
Breakthrough solutions can accelerate the discovery and
come from many sources. development of new drugs to
Several significant scientific fight tuberculosis. Among
collaborations and acquisitions infectious diseases, TB is the
evidence a pursuit of the best second most common cause
science to uncover these of adult deaths worldwide.
solutions and improve the • In May 2009, Tibotec-Virco
odds of success for products Virology BVBA and Siemens
and patients in areas of high Healthcare Diagnostics Inc.
unmet needs. (Also see story biomArKers oFFer insight Researchers from Johnson & Johnson announced a licensing
on page 16.) These are a few and Tianjin Medical University Cancer Hospital in China are pursuing agreement that will allow
the best science to identify biomarkers that could help personalize
examples related to R&D Tibotec-Virco Virology BVBA
medicine and advance cancer treatment.
efforts in oncology and to develop a new research
infectious diseases: allowing scientists to identify cancer, a disease that accounts technology platform to assist
biomarkers that could help for 10 percent of cancer-related with the development of
• Johnson & Johnson and personalize medicine and deaths in the United States. antivirals for the treatment
Tianjin Medical University advance cancer treatment. (See related feature on page 10.) of hepatitis C virus (HCV).
Cancer Hospital in China • Johnson & Johnson acquired • In July 2009, Tibotec More than 170 million
established a partnership in Cougar Biotechnology, Inc. in Pharmaceuticals entered into a people worldwide are infected
February 2008. At the hospital, July 2009. Clinical trials are license and collaboration with HCV, a virus that can
tumor specimens are collected under way on a compound for agreement with Gilead lead to serious and fatal
from patients and catalogued, the treatment of prostate Sciences, Inc. for the develop- diseases of the liver.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORT 19Citizenship
Our Commitment to Conservation
Worldwide efforts to reduce water use and eliminate water waste show results.
Standing in a river at the “When water is flowing, there is a natural declining. Even in India, where social and
music that today is becoming rare to find,” religious traditions have fostered a
foothills of the Himalayas in
he says. “We have to be careful to use sincere reverence for water as a source of
northern India, Achal Gupta water thoughtfully and to protect its life, parts of the country are among the
supply for future generations.” most water-scarce areas in the world.
recalls a simpler time that allowed
Around the world, water—one of the Achal is Manager of Environment,
for a different kind of closeness earth’s most critical resources—is under Health and Safety (EHS) at the
threat: Scarcity is increasing, demand is Johnson & Johnson Consumer
to nature’s vital resource.
inequitable, access is lacking, and quality is manufacturing facility in Baddi,
ONE WITH NATURE Achal at the foothills of the Himalayas, a short drive from the Johnson & Johnson Consumer facility where he works.
“As a moral and responsible corporate citizen in India, we are committed to conserving water and to leading by example,” he says.
20 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTHimachal Pradesh. The water
management efforts he oversees
include a zero-discharge wastewater
treatment facility—every drop of
treated water is reused for irrigation
and toilet flushing.
Rain harvesting began in 2008. Water is
collected from the rooftop and recharged
to the ground using a harvest pit. “The
huge amount of water during monsoon
season was going directly to the storm
drain and was wasted,” says Achal.
“So we decided to make use of it.”
These water management efforts
contribute to enterprise-wide
water reduction goals, which have
been in place for about 15 years. The
Company’s Healthy Planet 2010 goal for
water use is a 10 percent absolute reduc-
tion against the 2005 baseline. Thanks to
numerous efforts at the local level,
Johnson & Johnson is on target to reach
this goal by the end of 2010. New goals
will go into effect in January 2011.
“The enterprise-level goals are very
demanding,” says S. Radhakrishnan,
Manager of Environment, Health and
Safety, Johnson & Johnson Ltd. in
Keeping Children
Mulund, India. “We’re careful to review
our local efforts to ensure compliance
with enterprise standards as well as
Free of infection
community needs.”
Efforts are made within regions to
share best practices, as well as to
understand the context and combined
impact of local initiatives. Additional
efforts under way include using treated
wastewater to maintain lawns in front of a When Fernanda of Jinotepe, Nicaragua, medication, mebendazole, donated by
consumer manufacturing and research gets intestinal worms, the athletic fourth Johnson & Johnson. Approximately
and development center in Mulund, in the grader who plays several sports feels listless. 20 million of the world’s most at-risk
northeastern part of Mumbai, and to “I have a stomach ache. I feel really tired. children are treated, representing the
nurture 1,400 trees planted on the property. I don’t want to eat,” says Fernanda, 9, who largest health care company donation
At an Ethicon facility in Aurangabad, in misses school days. “Sometimes I vomit.” targeting STH. CWW was created in 2005
western India, a water storage tank was Fernanda is one of 400 million children
20 MIllION HEAl THy, AcTIvE kIds
installed, along with piping modifications worldwide under age 15 at risk of infection
Through the program Children Without
that reduced water pressure, cutting with soil-transmitted helminths, or STH:
Worms, Fernanda has learned ways to
overall consumption. Even small steps, roundworms, whipworms and hookworms.
prevent infection with STH. She reminds
like installing auto-close taps on sinks, Found mostly in tropical and subtropical
her mother to chlorinate the water and
have helped. Meanwhile, training and areas, STH is caused by a lack of clean
runs after brother Luis, 3, to scrub his
lectures on water conservation are water and sanitation. Intestinal worms are
hands with soap. When Luis drops his
organized for employees. especially harmful to children because
mango, Fernanda washes it with treated
“We have a responsibility to maintain they lead to malnutrition, anemia, stunted water before he takes another bite.
our environment while performing our growth, impaired cognitive development “Fernanda’s physically healthier, and
business efforts to meet our customers’ and poor school attendance and she’s more knowledgeable, so she doesn’t
needs,” says Achal. “We’re developing performance. reinfect herself,” says her mother,
ourselves in such a way that future But Fernanda’s school participates in Grissell. When her children are
generations will feel proud of us, our Children Without Worms (CWW), a worm-free, she laughs, “They’re active,
commitment and our actions.” program that provides a deworming they eat a lot, they don’t stop!”
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORT 21Citizenship
by Johnson & Johnson in
Linking Conservation to health
partnership with the Task
Force for Global Health as the
first program to focus solely
on the global treatment and
prevention of STH. The Terai Arc forests in Nepal provide resources for nearly
CWW partners with 7 million people and are vital to the survival of endangered species.
governments and
The World Wildlife Fund (WWF), in partnership with Johnson & Johnson and the United States
organizations in eight
Agency for International Development, promotes community conservation and improves health
countries to stop reinfection
and family services for 16,000 families. Household bio-gas plants, 165 in all, were built to provide
through hygiene education
clean cooking fuel. This also reduces wood use by 7,425 metric tons and carbon dioxide emissions
and access to improved
by 660 tons annually.
sanitation and clean water.
“We help people understand links between conservation and the health and livelihood of
“You must have a prevention
communities,” says Shubash Lohani, WWF Deputy Director, Eastern Himalayas. Projects are also
component or children will be
under way in Kenya and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
continuously reinfected,” says
Kim Koporc, CWW Acting
Director. “The prevention
component breaks the cycle.”
Johnson & Johnson began
donations of mebendazole in
2007 through CWW in
Bangladesh, Cameroon,
Uganda and Zambia.
In 2008, CWW expanded to
Cambodia, Cape Verde,
Lao People’s Democratic
Republic and Nicaragua. As a
result, these countries have
greatly expanded their
deworming outreach.
Cameroon now reaches all of
its 4 million school children.
Nicaragua expanded its
program to reach all children
12 and under. Making a Difference
The Company’s
“The support of
Johnson & Johnson has in Young Lives legacy of giving
been fundamental in
improving the health of our is guided by Our
children and increasing
Employees help make a difference in the lives of Credo responsibility
performance in school,” says
Dr. Martha Reyes, Director of young people through the Johnson & Johnson
to communities.
the National Immunization
Bridge to Employment (BTE) program.
Program at the Nicaragua We work with
Ministry of Health. Mentors like Deborah Coburn, “The program enriches the lives
hundreds of partners
Ultimately, CWW aims Manager, Sales & Operations of young people, who go on to
to eliminate intestinal worms Planning, LifeScan, Inc., share their experiences with
worldwide to make
in countries where it currently encourage high school students many different individuals.”
works and to expand to pursue higher education BTE, in partnership life-changing, long-
donations to other countries. while introducing them to with the Academy for
term differences in
“Our vision is to rid the world’s career opportunities in Educational Development,
children of intestinal worms health care. has reached more than
human health.
so they can grow, play and “Students work alongside 5,000 students since 1992.
learn,” says William Lin, business colleagues and It is active in the U.S., Colombia, Learn more at www.
Director, Corporate develop critical skills that will Ireland and Scotland, and is
jnj.com/ourgiving.
Contributions, help them in college and expanding to Brazil, the Czech
Johnson & Johnson. beyond,” says Deborah. Republic and Spain in 2010.
22 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORT
mOdGNiK
dETiNU-FWW/ETiHW-yERT
Ed
NOmiS©First Row COMMITTEES OF
Board of
WILLIAM C. WELDON THE BOARD
Chairman, Board of Directors
Directors
and Chief Executive Officer AUDIT
The Audit Committee,
Second Row, Left to Right comprised entirely of
MARY SUE COLEMAN, PH.D. independent Directors,
President, University of Michigan helps the Board oversee the
JAMES G. CULLEN Company’s accounting and
Retired President and Chief reporting practices. It recom-
Operating Officer, Bell Atlantic mends independent public
Corporation accountants for appointment
by the Board and reviews
Third Row, Left to Right
their performance; monitors
MICHAEL M. E. JOHNS, M.D.
the adequacy of internal
Chancellor, Emory University
accounting practices,
ARNOLD G. LANGBO
procedures and controls; and
Retired Chairman and
reviews all significant changes
Chief Executive Officer,
in accounting policies.
Kellogg Company
Fourth Row, Left to Right James G. Cullen, Chairman
SUSAN L. LINDQUIST, PH.D. Mary Sue Coleman, Ph.D.
Member and Former Director, Leo F. Mullin
Whitehead Institute for
Biomedical Research; Professor
of Biology, Massachusetts COMPENSATION & BENEFITS
Institute of Technology The Compensation & Benefits
ANNE M. MULCAHY Committee, comprised
Chairman and Retired entirely of independent
Chief Executive Officer, Directors, establishes the
Xerox Corporation Company’s executive
compensation philosophy and
Fifth Row, Left to Right
principles and approves the
LEO F. MULLIN
annual compensation and
Retired Chairman and
long-term incentives for the
Chief Executive Officer,
Company’s directors and
Delta Air Lines, Inc.
executive officers. The
WILLIAM D. PEREZ
Committee also reviews the
Senior Advisor, Greenhill & Co.,
philosophy and policies of the
Inc.; Retired President and
non-Board Management
Chief Executive Officer,
Compensation Committee,
Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company
which determines manage-
Sixth Row, Left to Right ment compensation and
CHARLES PRINCE establishes perquisites and
Chairman, Sconset Group, LLC;
other compensation policies
Senior Counselor, Albright
for non-executive employees.
Stonebridge Group; Retired
Additionally, the Committee
Chairman and Chief Executive
oversees the management of
Officer, Citigroup Inc.
the various retirement,
DAVID SATCHER, M.D., PH.D. pension, long-term incentive,
Director, Center of Excellence savings, health and welfare
on Health Disparities, plans that cover the
Director, Satcher Health Company’s employees.
Leadership Institute and
Poussaint-Satcher-Cosby Chair Arnold G. Langbo, Chairman
in Mental Health, Morehouse Michael M. E. Johns, M.D.
School of Medicine; Former William D. Perez
U.S. Surgeon General Charles Prince
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORT 23FINANCE General Counsel and Vice CORPORATE OFFICERS EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
The Finance Committee Presidents for Corporate Affairs,
WILLIAM C. WELDON The Executive Committee of
exercises the management Government Affairs and Policy, Chairman, Board of Directors Johnson & Johnson is the
authority of the Board during and Worldwide Operations. Chief Executive Officer principal management
the intervals between Board
Chairman, Executive Committee group responsible for the
meetings. The Finance Leo F. Mullin, Chairman
operations and allocation of
Committee is comprised of the Susan L. Lindquist, Ph.D. DOMINIC J. CARUSO
the resources of the Company.
Chairman of the Board and the William D. Perez Vice President, Finance
This Committee oversees and
Presiding Director. David Satcher, M.D., Ph.D. Chief Financial Officer
coordinates the activities of the
Executive Committee
Russell C. Deyo
Consumer, Pharmaceuticals
William C. Weldon, Chairman Clifford E. Holland
STEPHEN J. COSGROVE and Medical Devices and
James G. Cullen Brian D. Perkins Corporate Controller Diagnostics business segments.
Ajit Shetty, Ph.D.
Each subsidiary within the
LAVERNE H. COUNCIL
business segments is, with
Vice President,
NOMINATING & CORPORATE
some exceptions, managed by
Chief Information Officer
GOVERNANCE SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
citizens of the country where it
The Nominating & Corporate The Science & Technology
RUSSELL C. DEYO is located.
Governance Committee, Advisory Committee, comprised Vice President, General Counsel
comprised entirely of of independent Directors and Executive Committee
independent Directors, is the Company’s Vice President,
COMPANY GROUP
responsible for overseeing Science and Technology, advises COLLEEN A. GOGGINS
CHAIRMEN
corporate governance matters, the Board on scientific Worldwide Chairman,
reviewing possible candidates matters, including major Consumer Group ROBERTO DE O. MARQUES
for Board membership and internal projects, interaction Executive Committee
MICHAEL J. F. DEL PRADO
recommending nominees for with academic and other outside
ALEX GORSKY
election. The Committee is research organizations, Worldwide Chairman, JOAQUIN DUATO
also responsible for overseeing and the acquisition of technolo- Medical Devices & SETH H. Z. FISCHER
the process for performance gies and products. Diagnostics Group
evaluations of the Board and Executive Committee GUY J. LEBEAU, M.D.
its committees. Additionally, David Satcher, M.D., Ph.D.,
KAREN A. LICITRA
the Committee reviews the Chairman RAYMOND C. JORDAN
Company’s executive Vice President, Public Affairs & MICHAEL F. MAHONEY
Mary Sue Coleman, Ph.D.
succession plans and Corporate Communication
Michael M. E. Johns, M.D. PATRICK D. MUTCHLER
executive resources.
Susan L. Lindquist, Ph.D. SHERILYN S. MCCOY
DAVID Y. NORTON
Garry A. Neil, M.D. Worldwide Chairman,
Charles Prince, Chairman
Pharmaceuticals Group MICHEL PAUL
James G. Cullen
Executive Committee
Arnold G. Langbo JACQUES PEETERS
JOHN A. PAPA
GARY J. PRUDEN
Treasurer
PUBLIC POLICY MARC E. ROBINSON
BRIAN D. PERKINS
The Public Policy Advisory
Vice President, MICHAEL E. SNEED
Committee reviews the
Corporate Affairs
Company’s policies, programs PERICLES P. STAMATIADES
and practices on public health STEVEN M. ROSENBERG
KIM TAYLOR
issues regarding the environ- Secretary,
ment and the health and safety Associate General Counsel NICHOLAS J. VALERIANI
of employees. The Committee
JESSE J. WU
also reviews the Company’s
governmental affairs and
policies and other public policy
issues facing the Company.
The Committee advises and
makes recommendations
to the Board on these issues
as appropriate. The Public
Policy Advisory Committee
is comprised of independent
Directors and the Company’s
24 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTCorporateGovernanceandManagement’sResponsibility
Johnson&JohnsonisguidedbythevaluessetforthinOurCredo, PricewaterhouseCoopersLLP,anindependentregisteredpublic
createdbyGeneralRobertWoodJohnsonin1943.Theseprinciples accountingfirm,isengagedtoperformanintegratedauditofour
haveguidedusovertheyearsandcontinuetosetthetoneof consolidatedfinancialstatementsandinternalcontroloverfinancial
integrityfortheentireCompany.Atalllevels,theemployeesof reporting.TheReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccounting
Johnson&Johnsonarecommittedtotheethicalprinciplesembod- Firmisonpage64.
iedinOurCredoandtheseprincipleshavebeenwovenintothe TheAuditCommitteeofourBoardofDirectorsiscomposed
fabricoftheCompany. solelyofindependentdirectorswiththefinancialknowledgeand
ThevaluesarticulatedinOurCredoextendtoouraccounting experiencetoprovideappropriateoversight.Wereviewinternal
andfinancialresponsibilitiestoJohnson&Johnsonshareholders controlmattersandkeyaccountingandfinancialreportingissues
andinvestors.We,themanagementofJohnson&Johnson,are withtheAuditCommitteeonaregularbasis.Inaddition,theinde-
responsiblefortheintegrityandobjectivityoftheaccompanying pendentauditors,theGeneralCounselandtheVicePresidentof
financialstatementsandrelatedinformation.Wearealsoresponsi- InternalAuditregularlymeetinprivatesessionswithourAudit
bleforensuringthatfinancialdataisreportedaccuratelyandina Committeetodiscusstheresultsoftheirworkincludingobserva-
mannerthatfacilitatestheunderstandingofthisdata. tionsontheadequacyofinternalfinancialcontrols,thequality
Asevidenceofourcommitmenttothisresponsibility,we offinancialreportingandconfirmationthattheyareproperly
maintainawell-designedsystemofinternalaccountingcontrols, dischargingtheirresponsibilitiesandotherrelevantmatters.
encouragestrongandeffectivecorporategovernancefromour OurExecutiveCommitteeiscontinuouslyinvolvedinthe
BoardofDirectors,continuouslyreviewourbusinessresultsand reviewoffinancialresultsaswellasdevelopingandunderstanding
strategicchoices,andfocusonfinancialstewardship. strategiesandkeyinitiativesforlong-termgrowth.Ourintentisto
Ourcorporatestaffofprofessionallytrainedinternalauditors, ensurethatwemaintainobjectivityinourbusinessassessments,
whotravelworldwide,monitoroursystemofinternalaccounting constructivelychallengetheapproachtobusinessopportunitiesand
controlsdesignedtoprovidereasonableassurancethatassetsare issues,andmonitorourbusinessresultsandtherelatedcontrols.
safeguardedandthattransactionsandeventsarerecordedproperly. Ourconsolidatedfinancialstatementsandfinancialdatathat
Ourinternalcontrolsincludeself-assessmentsandinternalreviews followhavebeenpreparedinconformitywithaccountingprinciples
ofouroperatingcompanies. generallyacceptedintheUnitedStatesofAmericaandinclude
During2009,theCompanycontinuedtoinvestsignificanttime amountsthatarebaseduponourbestjudgments.Wearecommit-
andresourcesinordertoensurecompliancewithSection404of tedtopresentanddiscussresultsofoperationsinaclearand
theSarbanes-OxleyActof2002.Basedontheworkperformed,we transparentmannerinordertoprovidetimely,comprehensiveand
haveconcludedthatourinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting understandableinformationtoourshareholders.
waseffectiveasofJanuary3,2010.WereferyoutoManagement’s
ReportonInternalControloverFinancialReportingonpage65.
Werequirethemanagementteamsofouroperatingcompa-
niestocertifytheircompliancewithourPolicyonBusinessConduct,
whichsetsforththeCompany’scommitmenttoconductitsbusi-
nessaffairswithintegrityandcomplywiththegoverninglaws
andregulations.Wehaveasystematicprogramdesignedto
ensurecompliancewiththesepoliciesandprovidemeansof WilliamC.Weldon DominicJ.Caruso
reportinganyconcernsaboutviolationsofthepolicy.Toview Chairman,Boardof VicePresident,Finance,
ourPolicyonBusinessConduct,pleasevisitourwebsiteat Directors,andChief andChiefFinancialOfficer
www.investor.jnj.com/governance/conduct.cfm. ExecutiveOfficer
TableofContents
MANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS AUDITEDCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
26 OrganizationandBusinessSegments 36 ConsolidatedBalanceSheets
26 ResultsofOperations 37 ConsolidatedStatementsofEarnings
27 AnalysisofSalesbyBusinessSegments 38 ConsolidatedStatementsofEquity
29 AnalysisofConsolidatedEarningsBeforeProvisionfor 39 ConsolidatedStatementsofCashFlows
TaxesonIncome 40 NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements
32 LiquidityandCapitalResources 64 ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm
33 OtherInformation 65 Management’sReportonInternalControlover
35 CautionaryFactorsThatMayAffectFutureResults FinancialReporting
SUPPORTINGSCHEDULES
66 SummaryofOperationsandStatisticalData1999–2009
67 ShareholderReturnPerformanceGraphs
68 ReconciliationofNon-GAAPFinancialMeasures
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORT 25Management’sDiscussionandAnalysisofResultsofOperationsandFinancialCondition
OrganizationandBusinessSegments MANAGEMENT’SOBJECTIVES
AprimaryobjectiveoftheCompanyistoachievesuperiorlevelsof
DESCRIPTIONOFTHECOMPANYANDBUSINESSSEGMENTS
capitalefficientprofitablegrowth.Toaccomplishthis,theCom-
Johnson&Johnsonanditssubsidiaries(the“Company”)have
pany’smanagementoperatesthebusinessconsistentwithcertain
approximately115,500employeesworldwideengagedinthe
strategicprinciplesthathaveprovensuccessfulovertime.Tothis
researchanddevelopment,manufactureandsaleofabroadrangeof
end,theCompanyparticipatesingrowthareasinhumanhealthcare
productsinthehealthcarefield.TheCompanyconductsbusinessin
andiscommittedtoattainingleadershippositionsinthesegrowth
virtuallyallcountriesoftheworldwiththeprimaryfocusonproducts
areasthroughthedevelopmentofinnovativeproductsandservices.
relatedtohumanhealthandwell-being.
Newproductsintroducedwithinthepastfiveyearsaccountedfor
TheCompanyisorganizedintothreebusinesssegments:
approximately25%of2009sales.In2009,$7.0billion,or11.3%of
Consumer,PharmaceuticalandMedicalDevicesandDiagnostics.
sales,wasinvestedinresearchanddevelopment.Thisinvestment
TheConsumersegmentincludesabroadrangeofproductsusedin
reflectsmanagement’scommitmenttotheimportanceofongoing
thebabycare,skincare,oralcare,woundcareandwomen’shealth
developmentofnewanddifferentiatedproductsandservicesto
carefields,aswellasnutritionalandover-the-counterpharmaceuti-
sustainlong-termgrowth.
calproducts.Theseproductsaremarketedtothegeneralpublic
Withmorethan250operatingcompanieslocatedin60
andsoldbothtoretailoutletsanddistributorsthroughouttheworld.
countries,theCompanyviewsitsprincipleofdecentralizedman-
ThePharmaceuticalsegmentincludesproductsinthefollowing
agementasanassetandfundamentaltothesuccessofabroadly
therapeuticareas:anti-infective,antipsychotic,cardiovascular,con-
basedbusiness.Italsofostersanentrepreneurialspirit,combining
traceptive,dermatology,gastrointestinal,hematology,immunology,
theextensiveresourcesofalargeorganizationwiththeabilityto
neurology,oncology,painmanagement,urologyandvirology.These
reactquicklytolocalmarketchangesandchallenges.
productsaredistributeddirectlytoretailers,wholesalersandhealth
TheCompanyiscommittedtodevelopingglobalbusinesslead-
careprofessionalsforprescriptionuse.TheMedicalDevicesand
erswhocandrivegrowthobjectives.Businessesaremanagedforthe
Diagnosticssegmentincludesabroadrangeofproductsusedprin-
long-terminordertosustainleadershippositionsandachievegrowth
cipallyintheprofessionalfieldsbyphysicians,nurses,therapists,
thatprovidesanenduringsourceofvaluetoourshareholders.
hospitals,diagnosticlaboratoriesandclinics.Theseproducts
UnifyingthemanagementteamandtheCompany’sdedicated
includeCordis’circulatorydiseasemanagementproducts;DePuy’s
employeesinachievingtheseobjectivesisOurCredo.OurCredo
orthopaedicjointreconstruction,spinalcareandsportsmedicine
providesacommonsetofvaluesandservesasaconstantreminder
products;Ethicon’ssurgicalcare,aestheticsandwomen’shealth
oftheCompany’sresponsibilitiestoitscustomers,employees,com-
products;EthiconEndo-Surgery’sminimallyinvasivesurgicalprod-
munitiesandshareholders.TheCompanybelievesthatthesebasic
ucts;LifeScan’sbloodglucosemonitoringandinsulindelivery
principles,alongwithitsoverallmissionofimprovingthequality
products;Ortho-ClinicalDiagnostics’professionaldiagnostic
oflifeforpeopleeverywhere,willenableJohnson&Johnsonto
productsandVistakon’sdisposablecontactlenses.
continuetobeamongtheleadersinthehealthcareindustry.
TheCompany’sstructureisbasedupontheprincipleof
decentralizedmanagement.TheExecutiveCommitteeof
ResultsofOperations
Johnson&Johnsonistheprincipalmanagementgroupresponsible
fortheoperationsandallocationoftheresourcesoftheCompany.
ANALYSISOFCONSOLIDATEDSALES
ThisCommitteeoverseesandcoordinatestheactivitiesofthe In2009,worldwidesalesdecreased2.9%to$61.9billion,compared
Consumer,PharmaceuticalandMedicalDevicesandDiagnostics toincreasesof4.3%in2008and14.6%in2007.Thesesales
businesssegments. changesconsistedofthefollowing:
Inallofitsproductlines,theCompanycompeteswithcompa-
niesbothlocalandglobal,locatedthroughouttheworld.Competi- Sales(decrease)/increasedueto: 2009 2008 2007
Volume (0.2)% 1.1 10.1
tionexistsinallproductlineswithoutregardtothenumberandsize
ofthecompetingcompaniesinvolved.Competitioninresearch, Price (0.1) 0.8 1.4
involvingthedevelopmentandtheimprovementofnewandexisting Currency (2.6) 2.4 3.1
productsandprocesses,isparticularlysignificant.Thedevelopment Total (2.9)% 4.3 14.6
ofnewandinnovativeproductsisimportanttotheCompany’ssuc-
cessinallareasofitsbusiness.Thisalsoincludesprotectingthe SalesbyU.S.companieswere$30.9billionin2009,$32.3billionin
Company’sportfolioofintellectualproperty.Thecompetitiveenvi- 2008and$32.4billionin2007.Thisrepresentsadecreaseof4.4%
ronmentrequiressubstantialinvestmentsincontinuingresearchand in2009,adecreaseof0.4%in2008andanincreaseof9.0%in
inmaintainingsalesforces.Inaddition,thedevelopmentandmain- 2007.Salesbyinternationalcompanieswere$31.0billionin2009,
tenanceofcustomerdemandfortheCompany’sconsumerproducts $31.4billionin2008and$28.7billionin2007.Thisrepresentsa
involvessignificantexpendituresforadvertisingandpromotion. decreaseof1.4%in2009andincreasesof9.7%and21.7%in2008
and2007,respectively.
26 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTU.S.and 70 Salesby 70
InternationalSales 60 Segment 60
for10Years (inbillionsofdollars)
(inbillionsofdollars) 50 50
40 Consumer 40
U.S. Pharmaceutical
International 30 MedicalDevices 30
andDiagnostics
20 20
10 10
0 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 0 07 08 09
Thefive-yearcompoundannualgrowthratesforworldwide, AnalysisofSalesbyBusinessSegments
U.S.andinternationalsaleswere5.5%,2.2%and9.6%,respec-
CONSUMERSEGMENT
tively.Theten-yearcompoundannualgrowthratesforworldwide,
Consumersegmentsalesin2009were$15.8billion,adecreaseof
U.S.andinternationalsaleswere8.5%,7.1%and10.1%,respectively.
1.6%from2008with2.0%ofthischangeduetooperationalgrowth
andnegativecurrencyimpactof3.6%.U.S.Consumersegment
Salesby 70 saleswere$6.8billion,adecreaseof1.4%.Internationalsaleswere
Geographic 60 $9.0billion,adecreaseof1.7%,withgrowthof4.7%achievedby
Region
operationsandadecreaseof6.4%resultingfromthenegative
(inbillionsofdollars) 50
impactofcurrencyfluctuations.
U.S. 40 TheOver-the-Counter(OTC)PharmaceuticalsandNutritionals
Europe franchisesaleswere$5.6billion,adecreaseof4.5%from2008.
WesternHemisphere 30
Thiswasprimarilyduetothenegativeimpactofcurrencyandlower
excludingU.S.
AsiaPacific,Africa 20 salesoftheover-the-counterZYRTEC®allergyproductlinerelated
10 totheinitialbuildofinventorybythetradeduringthe2008launch
year.ThiswaspartiallyoffsetbysalesgrowthintheSPLENDA®
0
07 08 09 sweetenerproductline.TheU.S.FoodandDrugAdministration
(FDA)iscurrentlyconsideringcertainrecommendationsmadeby
itsadvisorycommitteeforreducingthepotentialforoverdosewith
SalesinEuropeexperiencedadeclineof5.1%includingopera-
acetaminophen,theactiveingredientinTYLENOL®brandproducts.
tionalgrowthof2.1%andanegativeimpactfromcurrencyof7.2%.
TheCompanyhasprovidedtheFDAwithitsownrecommendations
SalesintheWesternHemisphere(excludingtheU.S.)experienceda
andwillcontinuetobeactivelyengagedwiththeFDAonthistopic.
declineof0.3%includingoperationalgrowthof8.8%andanegative
InDecember2009,theCompanyannouncedavoluntaryrecall
impactfromcurrencyof9.1%.SalesintheAsia-Pacific,Africaregion
ofalllotsofTYLENOL®ArthritisPain100countwithEZ-OPENCAP
achievedgrowthof4.6%,includingoperationalgrowthof4.4%and
followingreportsofanuncharacteristicsmell;however,therewas
anincreaseof0.2%relatedtothepositiveimpactofcurrency.
aninsignificantimpactonsales.InJanuary2010,theCompanyhas
In2009,2008and2007,theCompanydidnothaveacus-
undertakenabroadervoluntaryrecallofTYLENOL®andcertain
tomerthatrepresented10%ormoreoftotalconsolidatedrevenues.
OTCproductsasaprecautionaryaction.
2009resultsbenefitedfromtheinclusionofa53rdweek.
TheSkinCarefranchisesalesgrewby2.5%to$3.5billionin
(SeeNote1totheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsforAnnual
2009.ThesalesgrowthwasprimarilyduetotheAVEENO®,
ClosingDatedetails).TheCompanyestimatedthatthefiscalyear
NEUTROGENA®,andDABAO™skincarelines.TheBabyCarefranchise
2009growthratewasenhancedbyapproximately0.5%.While
saleswere$2.1billion,adecreaseof4.5%primarilyduetothe
theadditionalweekaddedafewdaystosales,italsoaddedafull
negativeimpactofcurrencyandlowersalesforBabycenter.comasa
week’sworthofoperatingcosts;therefore,thenetearningsimpact
resultofexitingtheonlineretailbusiness,partiallyoffsetbygrowth
wasnegligible.
inthehaircareproductline.TheWomen’sHealthfranchisesales
were$1.9billion,adecreaseof0.8%primarilyduetothenegative
impactofcurrencypartiallyoffsetbyincreasedsalesassociated
withtheacquisitionofajointventurepartnerinFranceinthefiscal
MajorConsumerFranchiseSales:
_______%__C_h_a_n_g_e_______
(DollarsinMillions) 2009 2008 2007 ’09vs.’08 ’08vs.’07
OTCPharmaceuticals&Nutritionals $5,630 5,894 5,142 (4.5)% 14.6
SkinCare 3,467 3,381 3,051 2.5 10.8
BabyCare 2,115 2,214 1,982 (4.5) 11.7
Women’sHealth 1,895 1,911 1,806 (0.8) 5.8
OralCare 1,569 1,624 1,488 (3.4) 9.1
WoundCare/Other 1,127 1,030 1,024 9.4 0.6
Total $15,803 16,054 14,493 (1.6)% 10.8
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 27firstquarterof2009.Priortotheacquisitionofthejointventure RISPERDAL®CONSTA®inJapanearlierintheyear.
partner,salesbythejointventurewerenotrecordedaspartofthe CONCERTA®(methylphenidateHCl),aproductforthetreat-
Company’ssalestocustomers.TheOralCarefranchisesaleswere mentofattentiondeficithyperactivitydisorder(ADHD),achieved
$1.6billion,adecreaseof3.4%duetosoftnessinthecategoryinthe salesof$1.3billionin2009,representinganincreaseof6.3%over
U.S.,partiallyoffsetbygrowthofLISTERINE®mouthwashoutside 2008.Salesresultsin2008werefavorablyimpactedbyapproxi-
theU.S.TheWoundCare/Otherfranchisesalesgrewby9.4%to mately$115millionrelatedtoachangeintheestimateofaccrued
$1.1billionprimarilyduetotherecentacquisitionsintheWellness salesreservesrelatedtosalesoutsidetheU.S.Althoughtheoriginal
andPreventionplatformandstrongsalesofPURELL®handsanitizer. CONCERTA®patentexpiredin2004,theFDAhasnotapprovedany
Consumersegmentsalesin2008were$16.0billion,an genericversionthatissubstitutableforCONCERTA®.Partieshave
increaseof10.8%over2007with8.3%ofthischangedueto filedAbbreviatedNewDrugApplications(ANDAs)forgenericver-
operationalgrowthandtheremaining2.5%duetopositivecurrency sionsofCONCERTA®,whicharependingandmaybeapprovedat
fluctuations.U.S.Consumersegmentsaleswere$6.9billion,an anytime.Anapprovalwouldleadtoalossofexclusivityandislikely
increaseof8.3%.Internationalsaleswere$9.1billion,anincreaseof toresultinasignificantreductioninsales.
12.8%,with8.3%asaresultofoperationsand4.5%duetocurrency TOPAMAX®(topiramate),RISPERDAL®(risperidone),and
fluctuationsover2007. DURAGESIC®/FentanylTransdermal(fentanyltransdermalsystem)
experiencedsalesdeclinesin2009of57.9%,57.7%and14.3%,
PHARMACEUTICALSEGMENT respectively,versustheprioryearduetogenericcompetition.Mar-
Pharmaceuticalsegmentsalesin2009were$22.5billion,a ketexclusivityintheU.S.expiredforTOPAMAX®(topiramate)in
decreaseof8.3%from2008,withanoperationaldeclineof6.1% March2009,RISPERDAL®oralinJune2008andDURAGESIC®in
andtheremaining2.2%duetothenegativeimpactofcurrencyfluc- January2005.
tuations.U.S.saleswere$13.0billion,adecreaseof12.1%.Interna- ACIPHEX®/PARIET®(rabeprazolesodium)experienceda
tionalsaleswere$9.5billion,adecreaseof2.6%,whichincluded salesdeclineof5.4%duetocompetitioninthecategory.
3.0%operationalgrowthandadecreaseof5.6%resultingfromthe In2009,OtherPharmaceuticalsaleswere$7.6billion,repre-
negativeimpactofcurrencyfluctuations. sentingagrowthof6.6%overtheprioryear.Contributorstothe
REMICADE®(infliximab),abiologicapprovedforthetreat- increaseweresalesofVELCADE®(bortezomib),aproductforthe
mentofanumberofimmunemediatedinflammatorydiseases, treatmentofmultiplemyeloma;PREZISTA®(darunavir),forthe
achievedsalesof$4.3billionin2009,withgrowthof14.8%over treatmentofHIV/AIDSpatients;INTELENCE™(etravirine),forHIV
theprioryearprimarilyattributabletostrongoverallmarketgrowth. combinationtherapyandINVEGA®(paliperidone),aonce-daily
REMICADE®iscompetinginamarketwhichisexperiencing atypicalantipsychotic.Thegrowthwaspartiallyoffsetbytheimpact
increasedcompetitionduetonewentrantsandtheexpansionof ofagenericversionofORTHOTRI-CYCLEN®LOshippedbya
indicationsforexistingcompetitors. competitor.Subsequently,thegenericmanufacturerrecognized
PROCRIT®(Epoetinalfa)andEPREX®(Epoetinalfa)hadcom- thevalidityofthepatent,paiddamagesforitsinfringingsalesand
binedsalesof$2.2billionin2009,adeclineof8.7%comparedto ceasedfurthershipmentsoftheproduct.
theprioryear.LowersalesofPROCRIT®andEPREX®weredueto During2009,theCompanyreceivedregulatoryapprovalfor
thedecliningmarketsforErythropoiesisStimulatingAgents(ESAs). severalnewmolecularentities(NMEs),includingSTELARA™
LEVAQUIN®(levofloxacin)/FLOXIN®(ofloxacin)saleswere (ustekinumab)intheU.S.andEuropeanUnion(EU)forthetreat-
$1.6billion,adeclineof2.6%versustheprioryear,duetocompeti- mentofmoderate-to-severeplaquepsoriasis;INVEGA®
tioninthecategory.ThepatentforLEVAQUIN®(levofloxacin)in SUSTENNA™(paliperidonepalmitate)extended-releaseinjectable
theU.S.willexpireinDecember2010.Apediatricextensionwas suspensionintheU.S.fortheacuteandmaintenancetreatmentof
grantedbytheFDA,whichextendsmarketexclusivityintheU.S. schizophrenia;SIMPONI™(golimumab)intheU.S.andEUforthe
throughJune2011.Theexpirationoftheproductpatentorlossof treatmentofmoderate-to-severe,activerheumatoidarthritis(RA),
marketexclusivityislikelytoresultinasignificantreductioninsales. activeandprogressivepsoriaticarthritis(PsA)andsevere,active
RISPERDAL®CONSTA®(risperidone),along-actinginjectable ankylosingspondylitis(AS);andPRILIGY™(dapoxetine)inseveral
forthetreatmentofschizophrenia,achievedsalesof$1.4billionin countriesfortheon-demandtreatmentofprematureejaculation.
2009,representinganincreaseof8.9%ascomparedtotheprior NUCYNTA™(tapentadol)ImmediateReleaseTablets,forrelief
year.Thegrowthwasduetoapositiveshiftfromdailytherapiesto ofmoderatetosevereacutepain,wasalsolaunchedintheU.S.
longer-actingRISPERDAL®CONSTA®andthelaunchof in2009.
MajorPharmaceuticalProductRevenues:
_______%__C_h_a_n_g_e_______
(DollarsinMillions) 2009 2008 2007 ’09vs.’08 ’08vs.’07
REMICADE®(infliximab) $4,304 3,748 3,327 14.8% 12.7
PROCRIT®/EPREX®(Epoetinalfa) 2,245 2,460 2,885 (8.7) (14.7)
LEVAQUIN®/FLOXIN®(levofloxacin/ofloxacin) 1,550 1,591 1,646 (2.6) (3.3)
RISPERDAL®CONSTA®(risperidone) 1,425 1,309 1,128 8.9 16.0
CONCERTA®(methylphenidateHCl) 1,326 1,247 1,028 6.3 21.3
TOPAMAX®(topiramate) 1,151 2,731 2,453 (57.9) 11.3
ACIPHEX®/PARIET®(rabeprazolesodium) 1,096 1,158 1,357 (5.4) (14.7)
RISPERDAL®(risperidone) 899 2,126 3,420 (57.7) (37.8)
DURAGESIC®/FentanylTransdermal(fentanyltransdermalsystem) 888 1,036 1,164 (14.3) (11.0)
OtherPharmaceuticals 7,636 7,161 6,458 6.6 10.9
Total $22,520 24,567 24,866 (8.3)% (1.2)
28 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTTheCompanyalsoreceivedapprovalsexpandingtheindica- SalesintheCordisfranchisewere$2.7billion,adeclineof
tionsforseveralkeyproducts,includingINVEGA®(paliperidone) 10.3%versustheprioryear.Thedeclinereflectslowersalesofthe
extended-releasetabletsintheU.S.fortheacutetreatmentof CYPHER®Sirolimus-elutingCoronaryStentduetoincreasedglobal
schizoaffectivedisorder;RISPERDAL®CONSTA®(risperidone) competition.Thedeclinewaspartiallyoffsetbygrowthofthe
Long-ActingTreatmentintheU.S.asbothmonotherapyandadjunc- BiosenseWebsterbusiness.
tivetherapytolithiumorvalproateinthemaintenancetreatmentof TheVisionCarefranchiseachievedsalesof$2.5billionin
BipolarIDisorder,aswellasforthetreatmentofschizophreniain 2009,a0.2%increaseoverprioryearprimarilyrelatedtogrowth
Japan;PREZISTA®(darunavir)intheEUwithlow-doseritonaviras intheAstigmaticcontactlensproductlineoffsetbythenegative
partofcombinationtherapyintreatment-naïveadults,aswellasfor impactofcurrency.
treatment-experiencedpediatricpatientswithHIV. SalesintheDiabetesCarefranchisewere$2.4billionin2009,
TheCompanysubmittedaNewDrugApplication(NDA)tothe adeclineof3.7%versustheprioryear.DeclinesintheLifeScan
FDAfortapentadolextendedrelease(ER)tablets,aninvestigational productlinewerepartiallyoffsetbygrowthoftheAnimasinsulin
oralanalgesicforthemanagementofmoderatetoseverechronic deliverybusinessresultingfromnewproductlaunchesand
paininpatients18yearsofageorolder.Inaddition,theCompany continueddevelopmentininternationalmarkets.
alsoinvestedinanumberofnewplatformsforgrowthinOncology, TheOrtho-ClinicalDiagnosticsfranchiseachievedsalesof
Alzheimer’sdiseaseandvaccinesforthetreatmentandprevention $2.0billionin2009,a6.6%increaseovertheprioryearprimarilyattrib-
ofinfluenzaandotherinfectiousandnon-infectiousdiseases. utabletotherecentlaunchoftheVITROS®3600and5600analyzers.
Pharmaceuticalsegmentsalesin2008were$24.6billion,a TheMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegmentachievedsales
decreaseof1.2%from2007,withanoperationaldeclineof3.1%and of$23.1billionin2008,representinganincreaseof6.4%overthe
1.9%increaseduetothepositiveimpactofcurrencyfluctuations. prioryear,withoperationalgrowthof3.5%and2.9%duetoaposi-
U.S.Pharmaceuticalsegmentsaleswere$14.9billion,adecreaseof tiveimpactfromcurrencyfluctuations.U.S.saleswere$10.5billion,
4.9%.InternationalPharmaceuticalsegmentsaleswere$9.7billion, anincreaseof1.0%.Internationalsaleswere$12.6billion,an
anincreaseof5.1%,whichincluded0.1%ofoperationalgrowthand increaseof11.3%,with5.8%fromoperationsandapositive
5.0%relatedtothepositiveimpactofcurrencyfluctuations. currencyimpactof5.5%.
MEDICALDEVICESANDDIAGNOSTICSSEGMENT AnalysisofConsolidatedEarnings
TheMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegmentachievedsalesof
BeforeProvisionforTaxesonIncome
$23.6billionin2009,representinganincreaseof1.9%overtheprior
year,withoperationalgrowthof4.2%andanegativecurrency Consolidatedearningsbeforeprovisionfortaxesonincome
impactof2.3%.U.S.saleswere$11.0billion,anincreaseof4.5% decreasedby$1.1billionto$15.8billionin2009ascomparedtothe
overtheprioryear.Internationalsaleswere$12.6billion,adecrease $16.9billionearnedin2008,adecreaseof6.9%.Thedecreasewas
of0.2%,withgrowthof4.0%fromoperationsandadecreaseof primarilyrelatedtolowersales,thenegativeimpactofproduct
4.2%resultingfromthenegativeimpactofcurrencyfluctuations. mix,lowerinterestincomeduetolowerratesofinterestearnedand
TheDePuyfranchiseachievedsalesof$5.4billionin2009,a restructuringchargesof$1.2billion.Thiswaspartiallyoffsetby
4.6%increaseovertheprioryear.Thiswasprimarilyduetogrowth lowerselling,marketingandadministrativeexpensesduetocost
inthespine,hipandkneeproductlines.Additionally,newproduct containmenteffortsacrossallthebusinesses.2008includedpur-
launchesintheMiteksportsmedicineproductlinecontributedto chasedin-processresearchanddevelopment(IPR&D)chargesof
thegrowth. $0.2billionandincreasedinvestmentspendinginselling,marketing
TheEthiconEndo-Surgeryfranchiseachievedsalesof$4.5bil- andadministrativeexpensesutilizedfromtheproceedsassociated
lionin2009,a4.8%increaseovertheprioryear.Thiswasattributable withthedivestitureoftheProfessionalWoundCarebusinessof
togrowthintheendoscopy,HARMONIC®,ENSEAL®andAdvanced Ethicon,Inc.Theincreasein2008of27.4%overthe$13.3billion
Sterilizationproductlines. in2007wasprimarilyduetolowerIPR&Dchargesof$0.6bil-
TheEthiconfranchiseachievedsalesof$4.1billionin2009,a lion,gainsfromdivestituresof$0.5billionandhigherlitigation
7.3%increaseovertheprioryear.Thiswasattributabletogrowthin gainsof$0.5billionversusrestructuringchargesof$0.7billion
thesutures,biosurgicalandmeshproductlinesinadditiontosales andthewrite-downoftheNATRECOR®intangibleassetof
ofnewlyacquiredproductsfromtheacquisitionsofOmrixBiophar- $0.7billionrecordedin2007.Asapercenttosales,consolidated
maceuticals,Inc.andMentorCorporation.Thegrowthwaspartially earningsbeforeprovisionfortaxesonincomein2009was25.4%
offsetbythedivestitureoftheProfessionalWoundCarebusinessof versus26.5%in2008.
Ethicon,Inc.inthefiscalfourthquarterof2008.
MajorMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticsFranchiseSales*:
_______%__C_h_a_n_g_e_______
(DollarsinMillions) 2009 2008 2007 ’09vs.’08 ’08vs.’07
DEPUY® $5,372 5,136 4,698 4.6% 9.3
ETHICONENDO-SURGERY® 4,492 4,286 3,834 4.8 11.8
ETHICON® 4,122 3,840 3,603 7.3 6.6
CORDIS® 2,679 2,988 3,314 (10.3) (9.8)
VisionCare 2,506 2,500 2,209 0.2 13.2
DiabetesCare 2,440 2,535 2,373 (3.7) 6.8
ORTHO-CLINICALDIAGNOSTICS® 1,963 1,841 1,705 6.6 8.0
Total $23,574 23,126 21,736 1.9% 6.4
*Prioryearamountshavebeenreclassifiedtoconformtocurrentpresentation.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 29Thesectionsthatfollowhighlightthesignificantcomponents In2008,costofproductssoldasapercenttosalesremained
ofthechangesinconsolidatedearningsbeforeprovisionfortaxes flattotheprioryear.Thechangeinthemixofbusinesses,with
onincome. highersalesgrowthintheConsumerbusinessandaslightsales
declineinthePharmaceuticalbusiness,hadanegativeimpacton
CostofProductsSoldandSelling,MarketingandAdministrative
thecostofproductssoldasapercenttosales.In2008,thiswasoff-
Expenses:Costofproductssoldandselling,marketingand
setbymanufacturingefficienciesandnon-recurringpositiveitems
administrativeexpensesasapercenttosaleswereasfollows:
in2008andnegativeitemsin2007.Therewasanincreaseinthe
%ofSales 2009 2008 2007 percenttosalesofselling,marketingandadministrativeexpensesin
Costofproductssold 29.8% 29.1 29.1 2008primarilyduetothechangeinthemixofbusinesses,whereby
Percentpointincreaseovertheprioryear 0.7 — 0.9 agreaterproportionofsaleswereattributabletotheConsumer
segment,whichhashigherselling,marketingandadministrative
Selling,marketingandadministrativeexpenses 32.0 33.7 33.5
spending.Additionally,in2008theCompanyutilizedthegainasso-
Percentpoint(decrease)/increaseoverthe
ciatedwiththedivestitureoftheProfessionalWoundCarebusiness
prioryear (1.7) 0.2 0.8
ofEthicon,Inc.tofundincreasedinvestmentspending.Thiswas
In2009,costofproductssoldasapercenttosalesincreased partiallyoffsetbyongoingcostcontainmentefforts.
primarilyduetothecontinuednegativeimpactofproductmixand In2007,therewasanincreaseinthepercenttosalesofcostof
inventorywrite-offsassociatedwiththerestructuringactivity.Addi- productssoldprimarilyduetotheimpactofnewlyacquiredcon-
tionally,2008includedsomenon-recurringpositiveitems.Therewas sumerbrands.Therewasanincreaseinthepercenttosalesofsell-
adecreaseinthepercenttosalesofselling,marketingandadminis- ing,marketingandadministrativeexpensesin2007primarilydueto
trativeexpensesin2009primarilyduetocostcontainmentefforts theimpactofnewlyacquiredconsumerbrandspartiallyoffsetby
acrossallthebusinessesandtheannualizedsavingsrecognizedfrom costcontainmentefforts.
the2007restructuringprogram.Additionally,2008utilizedthe
proceedsassociatedwiththedivestitureoftheProfessionalWound
CarebusinessofEthicon,Inc.tofundincreasedinvestmentspending.
ResearchandDevelopmentexpense(excludingpurchasedin-processresearchanddevelopmentcharges)bysegment
ofbusinesswasasfollows:
________2_0_0_9__________ _________2_0__0_8________ _________2_0_0_7_________
(DollarsinMillions) Amount %ofSales* Amount %ofSales* Amount %ofSales*
Consumer $ 632 4.0% 624 3.9 564 3.9
Pharmaceutical 4,591 20.4 5,095 20.7 5,265 21.2
MedicalDevicesandDiagnostics 1,763 7.5 1,858 8.0 1,851 8.5
Totalresearchanddevelopmentexpense $6,986 11.3% 7,577 11.9 7,680 12.6
Percent(decrease)/increaseovertheprioryear (7.8)% (1.3) 7.8
*Asapercenttosegmentsales
ResearchandDevelopmentExpense:Researchanddevelopment capitalizedandtestedforimpairment.TheCompanycapitalized
activitiesrepresentasignificantpartoftheCompany’sbusiness. $1.7billionofIPR&Din2009,primarilyassociatedwiththeacquisi-
Theseexpendituresrelatetothedevelopmentofnewproducts, tionsofCougarBiotechnology,Inc.andsubstantiallyalloftheassets
improvementofexistingproducts,technicalsupportofproducts andrightsofElan’sImmunotherapyprogram.
andcompliancewithgovernmentalregulationsfortheprotection In2008,theCompanyrecordedachargeforIPR&Dof$181mil-
ofconsumersandpatients. lionbeforeandaftertaxrelatedtotheacquisitionsofAmicAB,
In2009and2008,thereductioninthePharmaceutical SurgRx,Inc.,HealthMedia,Inc.andOmrixBiopharmaceuticals,Inc.
researchanddevelopmentspendingwasprimarilyduetoincreased HealthMedia,Inc,aprivatelyheldcompanythatcreatesweb-based
efficienciesinPharmaceuticalresearchanddevelopmentactivities. behaviorchangeinterventions,accountedfor$7millionbeforetax
oftheIPR&Dchargesandwasincludedintheoperatingprofitof
Restructuring:In2009,theCompanyannouncedglobalrestruc-
theConsumersegment.TheIPR&Dchargesforallofthefollowing
turinginitiativesthatareexpectedtogeneratepre-tax,annualcost
acquisitionswereincludedintheoperatingprofitoftheMedical
savingsof$1.4–$1.7billionwhenfullyimplementedin2011,with
DevicesandDiagnosticssegment.AmicAB,aSwedishdeveloper
$0.8–$0.9billionexpectedtobeachievedin2010.Theassociated
ofinvitrodiagnostictechnologiesforuseinpoint-of-careand
savingswillprovideadditionalresourcestoinvestinnewgrowth
near-patientsettings(outsidethephysicalfacilitiesoftheclinical
platforms;ensurethesuccessfullaunchoftheCompany’smany
laboratory),accountedfor$40millionbeforetaxoftheIPR&D
newproductsandcontinuedgrowthofthecorebusinesses;and
charges.SurgRx,Inc.,aprivatelyhelddeveloperoftheadvanced
provideflexibilitytoadjusttothechangedandevolvingglobalenvi-
bipolartissuesealingsystemusedintheENSEAL®familyofdevices,
ronment.Inthefiscalfourthquarterof2009theCompanyrecorded
accountedfor$7millionbeforetaxoftheIPR&Dcharges.OmrixBio-
apre-taxchargeof$1.2billion,ofwhich$113millionisincludedin
pharmaceuticals,Inc.,afullyintegratedbiopharmaceuticalcompany
costofproductssold.
thatdevelopsandmarketsbiosurgicalandimmunotherapyprod-
Therestructuringprogramannouncedin2007hasbeencom-
ucts,accountedfor$127millionbeforetaxoftheIPR&Dcharges.
pleted.SeeNote22totheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsfor
In2007,theCompanyrecordedachargeforIPR&Dof
additionaldetailsrelatedtotherestructuring.
$807millionbeforeandaftertaxrelatedtotheacquisitionofConor
PurchasedIn-ProcessResearchandDevelopment:In2009,in Medsystems,Inc.TheIPR&Dchargewasincludedintheoperating
accordancewithU.S.GAAPforbusinesscombinations,purchasedin- profitoftheMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegment.
processresearchanddevelopment(IPR&D)isnolongerexpensedbut
30 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTOther(Income)Expense,Net:Other(income)expense,net chargesof$429millionand$678millionfortheNATRECOR®
includesgainsandlossesrelatedtothesaleandwrite-downofcer- intangibleassetwrite-downrecordedin2007.
taininvestmentsinequitysecuritiesheldbyJohnson&Johnson
MedicalDevicesandDiagnosticsSegment:In2009,theoperating
DevelopmentCorporation,gainsandlossesonthedisposalof
profitintheMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegmentincreased
property,plantandequipment,currencygainsandlosses,non-
6.5%from2008.Theimprovedoperatingprofitwasdueto$478
controllinginterests,litigationsettlementsandliabilitiesandroyalty
milliongainfromnetlitigationsettlements,favorableproductmix,
income.Theunfavorablechangeof$0.5billioninother(income)
manufacturingefficienciesandcostcontainmentinitiativesrelated
expense,netfrom2009to2008wasprimarilyduetoagainof
toselling,marketingandadministrativeexpenses.Thiswaspartially
$0.5billionfromthedivestitureoftheProfessionalWoundCare
offsetby$321millioninrestructuringcharges.In2008,theoperat-
businessofEthicon,Inc.in2008.
ingprofitintheMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegmentincreased
In2008,other(income)expense,netincludedincomefrom
49.1%from2007.Theimprovedoperatingprofitwastheresultof
netlitigationsettlementsandawardsof$0.5billionandagainof
the$429milliongainfromnetlitigationsettlements,favorableprod-
$0.5billionfromthedivestitureoftheProfessionalWoundCare
uctmix,manufacturingefficienciesandlowerIPR&Dchargesof
businessofEthicon,Inc.In2007,other(income)expense,net
$174millionin2008versus$807millionin2007.Additionally,
includedachargeof$0.7billionbeforetaxrelatedtothe
$301millionofrestructuringchargeswererecordedin2007.
NATRECOR®intangibleassetwrite-down.
Interest(Income)Expense:Interestincomein2009decreasedby
OPERATINGPROFITBYSEGMENT $271millionduetolowerratesofinterestearneddespitehigher
Operatingprofitsbysegmentofbusinesswereasfollows: averagecashbalances.Thecashbalance,includingmarketable
securities,was$19.4billionattheendof2009,andaveraged
Percentof
$15.6billionascomparedtothe$12.2billionaveragecashbalance
_____S_e_g_m__e_n_t_S_a_le_s_____
in2008.Theincreaseintheaveragecashbalancewasprimarily
(DollarsinMillions) 2009 2008 2009 2008
duetocashgeneratedfromoperatingactivities.
Consumer $2,475 2,674 15.7% 16.7
Interestexpensein2009increasedby$16millionduetoahigher
Pharmaceutical 6,413 7,605 28.5 31.0
debtbalance.Thenetdebtbalanceattheendof2009was$14.5bil-
MedDevicesandDiagnostics 7,694 7,223 32.6 31.2
lionascomparedto$11.9billionattheendof2008.Thehigheraver-
Total(1) 16,582 17,502 26.8 27.4
agedebtbalanceof$13.5billionin2009versus$12.9billionin2008
Less:Expensesnotallocated wasprimarilyrelatedtofundingacquisitionsandinvestmentsand
tosegments(2) 827 573
thepurchaseoftheCompany’sCommonStockundertheongoing
Earningsbeforeprovision CommonStockrepurchaseprogramannouncedonJuly9,2007.
fortaxesonincome $15,755 16,929 25.4% 26.5
Interestincomein2008decreasedby$91millionduetolower
(1)SeeNote18totheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsformoredetails. ratesofinterestearneddespitehigheraveragecashbalances.The
(2)Amountsnotallocatedtosegmentsincludeinterest(income)expense,non-controlling cashbalance,includingmarketablesecurities,was$12.8billionat
interests,andgeneralcorporate(income)expense. theendof2008,andaveraged$12.2billionascomparedtothe
$6.6billionaveragecashbalancein2007.Theincreaseinthe
averagecashbalancewasprimarilyduetocashgeneratedfrom
operatingactivities.
Interestexpensein2008increasedby$139millionduetoa
higherdebtbalance.Inthesecondhalfof2007theCompanycon-
vertedsomeofitsshort-termdebttofixedlong-termdebtathigher
interestrates.Thenetdebtbalanceattheendof2008was$11.9bil-
lionascomparedto$9.5billionattheendof2007.Thehigherdebt
balancein2008wasprimarilyduetothepurchaseoftheCompany’s
CommonStockundertheongoingCommonStockrepurchase
programannouncedonJuly9,2007andtofundacquisitions.
Interestincomein2007decreasedby$377milliondueto
loweraveragecashbalances.Thedeclineintheaveragecash
balancewasprimarilyduetotheacquisitionoftheConsumer
ConsumerSegment:In2009,Consumersegmentoperatingprofit
HealthcarebusinessofPfizerInc.onDecember20,2006.
decreased7.4%from2008.Theprimaryreasonsforthedecreasein
Interestexpensein2007increasedby$233millionascom-
operatingprofitwas$369millionofrestructuringcharges,partially
paredtoprioryearduetoahigheraveragedebtbalance.Thenet
offsetbycostcontainmentinitiativesin2009.In2008,Consumer
debtbalanceattheendof2007was$9.5billionascomparedto
segmentoperatingprofitincreased17.4%from2007.Costsyner-
$6.6billionattheendof2006.Thehigherdebtbalancein2007
gies,lowerintegrationcostsin2008relatedtotheacquisitionofthe
wasduetothedebtassociatedwiththeacquisitionoftheCon-
ConsumerHealthcarebusinessofPfizerInc.,andothercostcon-
sumerHealthcarebusinessofPfizerInc.andtheCommonStock
tainmentinitiativescontributedtotheincreasedoperatingprofit
repurchaseprogramannouncedin2007.
in2008.
ProvisionforTaxesonIncome:Theworldwideeffectiveincometax
PharmaceuticalSegment:In2009,Pharmaceuticalsegmentoper-
ratewas22.1%in2009,23.5%in2008and20.4%in2007.The
atingprofitdecreased15.7%from2008.Theprimaryreasonsfor
2009taxratedecreasedascomparedto2008duetoincreasesin
thedecreaseinoperatingprofitwere$496millionofrestructuring
taxableincomeinlowertaxjurisdictionsrelativetotaxableincome
charges,$92millionoflitigationexpenseandnegativeproduct
inhighertaxjurisdictions.The2008taxrateincreasedascompared
mixduetothelossofmarketexclusivityforTOPAMAX®and
to2007duetoincreasesintaxableincomeinhighertaxjurisdic-
RISPERDAL®oral.In2008,Pharmaceuticalsegmentoperating
tionsrelativetotaxableincomeinlowerjurisdictions.Inaddition,the
profitincreased16.3%from2007.Theprimarydriverofthe
improvedoperatingprofitin2008wasduetotherestructuring
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 312007taxratebenefitedfromaone-timegainof$267millionrelated swapcontractsbyapproximately$185million.Ineitherscenario,
toabusinessrestructuringofcertaininternationalsubsidiaries. atmaturity,thegainorlossontheswapcontractwouldbeoffsetby
thegainorlossontheunderlyingtransactionandthereforewould
LiquidityandCapitalResources havenoimpactonfutureanticipatedcashflows.
TheCompanydoesnotenterintofinancialinstrumentsfor
LIQUIDITY&CASHFLOWS tradingorspeculativepurposes.Further,theCompanyhasapolicy
Cashandcashequivalentswere$15.8billionattheendof2009
ofonlyenteringintocontractswithpartiesthathaveatleastan“A”
ascomparedwith$10.8billionattheendof2008.Theprimary
(orequivalent)creditrating.Thecounterpartiestothesecontracts
sourcesofcashthatcontributedtothe$5.0billionincreaseversus
aremajorfinancialinstitutionsandthereisnosignificantconcentra-
prioryearwere$16.6billionofcashgeneratedfromoperatingactivi-
tionofexposurewithanyonecounterparty.Managementbelieves
tiesand$2.5billionnetproceedsfromlongandshort-termdebt.The
theriskoflossisremote.
majorusesofcashwerecapitalspendingof$2.4billion,acquisitions
TheCompanyhasaccesstosubstantialsourcesoffundsat
of$2.5billion,netinvestmentpurchasesof$2.8billion,dividendsto
numerousbanksworldwide.InSeptember2009,theCompany
shareholdersof$5.3billionandtherepurchaseofcommonstock,net
securedanew364-dayCreditFacility.Totalcreditavailabletothe
ofproceedsfromtheexerciseofoptions,of$1.2billion.
Companyapproximates$10billion,whichexpiresSeptember23,
CashFlowsfromoperationswere$16.6billionin2009.The
2010.Interestchargedonborrowingsunderthecreditlineagree-
majorsourcesofcashflowwerenetincomeof$12.3billion,adjusted
mentsisbasedoneitherbidsprovidedbybanks,theprimerateor
fornon-cashchargesfordepreciation,amortizationandstockbased
LondonInterbankOfferedRates(LIBOR),plusapplicablemargins.
compensationof$3.4billion,restructuringreservesof$1.1billionand
Commitmentfeesundertheagreementarenotmaterial.
accountsreceivableandinventoriesof$0.5billion. Theremaining
Totalborrowingsattheendof2009and2008were$14.5bil-
changestooperatingcashflowwereauseoffundsof$0.7billion
lionand$11.9billion,respectively.Theincreaseinborrowings
relatedtopensionplancontributionsand decreasesinaccounts
between2009and2008wasaresultoffinancinggeneralcorporate
payablepartiallyoffsetbydecreasesinotherreceivables,prepaid
purposesandthecontinuationoftheCommonStockrepurchase
expensesanddeferredtaxes.
programannouncedin2007.In2009,netcash(cashandcurrent
In2009,theCompanycontinuedtohaveaccesstoliquidity
marketablesecurities,netofdebt)was$4.9billioncomparedtonet
throughthecommercialpapermarket.Foradditionaldetailson
cashof$1.0billionin2008.Totaldebtrepresented22.3%oftotal
borrowings,seeNote7totheConsolidatedFinancialStatements.
capital(shareholders’equityandtotaldebt)in2009and21.8%of
TheCompanyanticipatesthatoperatingcashflows,existing
totalcapitalin2008.Shareholders’equitypershareattheendof
creditfacilitiesandaccesstothecommercialpapermarketswill
2009was$18.37comparedwith$15.35atyear-end2008,an
providesufficientresourcestofundoperatingneedsin2010.
increaseof19.7%.
Johnson&Johnsoncontinuestobeoneofafewindustrial
companieswithaTripleAcreditrating.Asummaryofborrowings
canbefoundinNote7totheConsolidatedFinancialStatements.
CONTRACTUALOBLIGATIONSANDCOMMITMENTS
TheCompanyhascontractualobligations,primarilylease,debtand
unfundedretirementplans,withnoothersignificantobligations.
Tosatisfytheseobligations,theCompanywillusecashfromopera-
tions.ThefollowingtablesummarizestheCompany’scontractual
obligationsandtheiraggregatematuritiesasofJanuary3,2010
(seeNotes7,10and16totheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsfor
furtherdetails):
Long-term Intereston Unfunded
FINANCINGANDMARKETRISK Debt Debt Retirement Operating
TheCompanyusesfinancialinstrumentstomanagetheimpactof (DollarsinMillions) Obligations Obligations Plans Leases Total
2010 $ 34 469 66 178 747
foreignexchangeratechangesoncashflows.Accordingly,theCompany
entersintoforwardforeignexchangecontractstoprotectthevalueof 2011 35 465 65 150 715
certainforeigncurrencyassetsandliabilitiesandtohedgefutureforeign 2012 615 442 69 128 1,254
currencytransactionsprimarilyrelatedtoproductcosts.Gainsorlosses 2013 507 410 73 103 1,093
onthesecontractsareoffsetbythegainsorlossesontheunderlying 2014 9 402 76 87 574
transactions.A10%appreciationoftheU.S.DollarfromtheJanuary3, After2014 7,057 4,525 474 94 12,150
2010marketrateswouldincreasetheunrealizedvalueoftheCompany’s Total $8,257 6,713 823 740 16,533
forwardcontractsby$296million.Conversely,a10%depreciationof
theU.S.DollarfromtheJanuary3,2010marketrateswoulddecrease Fortaxmatters,seeNote8totheConsolidatedFinancialStatements.
theunrealizedvalueoftheCompany’sforwardcontractsby$361million.
Ineitherscenario,thegainorlossontheforwardcontractwouldbeoff- SHAREREPURCHASEANDDIVIDENDS
setbythegainorlossontheunderlyingtransactionand,therefore, OnJuly9,2007,theCompanyannouncedthatitsBoardofDirectors
wouldhavenoimpactonfutureanticipatedearningsandcashflows. approvedastockrepurchaseprogram,authorizingtheCompanyto
TheCompanyhedgestheexposuretofluctuationsincurrency buybackupto$10.0billionoftheCompany’sCommonStock.The
exchangerates,andtheeffectoncertainassetsandliabilitiesin repurchaseprogramhasnotimelimitandmaybesuspendedfor
foreigncurrency,byenteringintocurrencyswapcontracts.A1% periodsordiscontinuedatanytime.Anysharesacquiredwillbe
changeinthespreadbetweenU.S.andforeigninterestratesonthe availableforgeneralcorporatepurposes.TheCompanyfundsthe
Company’sinterestratesensitivefinancialinstrumentswould sharerepurchaseprogramthroughacombinationofavailablecash
eitherincreaseordecreasetheunrealizedvalueoftheCompany’s anddebt.AsofJanuary3,2010,theCompanyrepurchasedan
32 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTaggregateof140.4millionsharesofJohnson&JohnsonCommon TheCompany’ssalesreturnreservesareaccountedforinaccor-
Stockunderthecurrentrepurchaseprogramatacostof$8.9billion. dancewiththeU.S.GAAPguidanceforrevenuerecognitionwhen
Inaddition,theCompanyhasanannualprogramtorepurchase rightofreturnexists.Salesreturnreservesarerecordedatfullsales
sharesforuseinemployeestockandincentiveplans. value.SalesreturnsintheConsumerandPharmaceuticalsegments
TheCompanyincreaseditsdividendin2009forthe47thcon- arealmostexclusivelynotresalable.Salesreturnsforcertainfran-
secutiveyear.Cashdividendspaidwere$1.930persharein2009, chisesintheMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegmentaretypically
comparedwithdividendsof$1.795persharein2008and$1.620 resalablebutarenotmaterial.TheCompanyrarelyexchanges
persharein2007.Thedividendsweredistributedasfollows: productsfrominventoryforreturnedproducts.Thesalesreturns
reserveforthetotalCompanyhasrangedbetween1.1%and1.2%of
2009 2008 2007
annualnettradesalesduringthepriorthreefiscalreportingyears
Firstquarter $0.460 0.415 0.375
2007–2009.
Secondquarter 0.490 0.460 0.415
Promotionalprograms,suchasproductlistingallowancesand
Thirdquarter 0.490 0.460 0.415 cooperativeadvertisingarrangements,arerecordedintheyear
Fourthquarter 0.490 0.460 0.415 incurred.Continuingpromotionalprogramsincludecouponsand
Total $1.930 1.795 1.620 volume-basedsalesincentiveprograms.Theredemptioncostof
consumercouponsisbasedonhistoricalredemptionexperienceby
OnJanuary4,2010,theBoardofDirectorsdeclaredaregularquar- productandvalue.Volume-basedincentiveprogramsarebasedon
terlycashdividendof$0.490pershare,payableonMarch9,2010, estimatedsalesvolumesfortheincentiveperiodandarerecorded
toshareholdersofrecordasofFebruary23,2010.TheCompany asproductsaresold.TheCompanyalsoearnsservicerevenuefor
expectstocontinuethepracticeofpayingregularcashdividends. co-promotionofcertainproducts.Forallyearspresented,service
revenueswerelessthan2%oftotalrevenuesandareincludedin
OtherInformation salestocustomers.Additionally,thesearrangementsareevaluated
todeterminetheappropriateamountstobedeferred.
CRITICALACCOUNTINGPOLICIESANDESTIMATES Inaddition,theCompanyentersintocollaborationarrangements,
Management’sdiscussionandanalysisofresultsofoperations whichcontainmultiplerevenuegeneratingactivities.Therevenuefor
andfinancialconditionarebasedontheCompany’sconsolidated thesearrangementsisrecognizedaseachactivityisperformedor
financialstatementsthathavebeenpreparedinaccordancewith delivered,basedontherelativefairvalue.Upfrontfeesreceivedas
accountingprinciplesgenerallyacceptedintheU.S.(GAAP).The partofthesearrangementsaredeferredandrecognizedasrevenue
preparationofthesefinancialstatementsrequiresthatmanagement earnedovertheobligationperiod.SeeNote1totheConsolidated
makeestimatesandassumptionsthataffecttheamountsreported FinancialStatementsforadditionaldisclosuresoncollaborations.
forrevenues,expenses,assets,liabilitiesandotherrelateddisclo- Reasonablylikelychangestoassumptionsusedtocalculate
sures.Actualresultsmayormaynotdifferfromtheseestimates.The theaccrualsforrebates,returnsandpromotionsarenotanticipated
Companybelievesthattheunderstandingofcertainkeyaccounting tohaveamaterialeffectonthefinancialstatements.TheCompany
policiesandestimatesareessentialinachievingmoreinsightintothe currentlydisclosestheimpactofchangestoassumptionsinthe
Company’soperatingresultsandfinancialcondition.Thesekey quarterlyorannualfilinginwhichthereisamaterialfinancial
accountingpoliciesincluderevenuerecognition,incometaxes,legal statementimpact.
andself-insurancecontingencies,valuationoflong-livedassets, Belowaretableswhichshowtheprogressionofaccrued
assumptionsusedtodeterminetheamountsrecordedforpensions rebates,returns,promotions,reservefordoubtfulaccountsand
andotheremployeebenefitplansandaccountingforstockoptions. reserveforcashdiscountsbysegmentofbusinessforthefiscal
yearsendedJanuary3,2010andDecember28,2008.
RevenueRecognition:TheCompanyrecognizesrevenuefrom
productsaleswhengoodsareshippedordelivered,andtitleand
riskoflosspasstothecustomer.Provisionsforcertainrebates,sales CONSUMERSEGMENT
incentives,tradepromotions,coupons,productreturnsanddis-
Balanceat Balanceat
countstocustomersareaccountedforasreductionsinsalesinthe Beginning Payments/ End
sameperiodtherelatedsalesarerecorded. (DollarsinMillions) ofPeriod Accruals Other ofPeriod
Productdiscountsgrantedarebasedonthetermsofarrange- 2009
mentswithdirect,indirectandothermarketparticipants,aswell Accruedrebates(1) $131 380 (390) 121
asmarketconditions,includingpriceschargedbycompetitors. Accruedreturns 115 134 (122) 127
Rebates,thelargestbeingtheMedicaidrebateprovision,areesti- Accruedpromotions 202 1,996 (1,926) 272
matedbasedoncontractualterms,historicalexperience,trend Subtotal $448 2,510 (2,438) 520
analysisandprojectedmarketconditionsinthevariousmarkets
Reservefordoubtfulaccounts 110 23 (26) 107
served.TheCompanyevaluatesmarketconditionsforproductsor
Reserveforcashdiscounts 22 285 (286) 21
groupsofproductsprimarilythroughtheanalysisofwholesalerand
Total $580 2,818 (2,750) 648
otherthird-partysell-throughandmarketresearchdata,aswellas
internallygeneratedinformation. 2008
Salesreturnsaregenerallyestimatedandrecordedbasedon Accruedrebates(1) $217 300 (386) 131
historicalsalesandreturnsinformation.Productsthatexhibit Accruedreturns 113 135 (133) 115
unusualsalesorreturnpatternsduetodating,competitionorother
Accruedpromotions 297 2,369 (2,464) 202
marketingmattersarespecificallyinvestigatedandanalyzedaspart
Subtotal $627 2,804 (2,983) 448
oftheaccountingforsalesreturnaccruals.
Reservefordoubtfulaccounts 71 41 (2) 110
Salesreturnsallowancesrepresentareserveforproductsthat
maybereturnedduetoexpiration,destructioninthefield,orinspe- Reserveforcashdiscounts 23 272 (273) 22
cificareas,productrecall.Thereturnsreserveisbasedonhistorical Total $721 3,117 (3,258) 580
returntrendsbyproductandbymarketasapercenttogrosssales.
(1)Includesreserveforcustomerrebatesof$46millionatJanuary3,2010and$73million
atDecember28,2008,recordedasacontraasset.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 33PHARMACEUTICALSEGMENT In2007,inaccordancewithU.S.GAAPtheCompanyadopted
thestandardrelatedtoaccountingforuncertaintyinincometaxes.
Balanceat Balanceat
TheCodificationprescribesarecognitionthresholdandmeasure-
Beginning Payments/ End
(DollarsinMillions) ofPeriod Accruals Other ofPeriod mentattributeforthefinancialstatementrecognitionandmeasure-
2009 mentofataxpositiontakenorexpectedtobetakeninataxreturn.
Accruedrebates(1) $1,261 3,975 (4,172) 1,064 TheCodificationalsoprovidesguidanceonderecognition,classifi-
Accruedreturns 490 147 (295) 342 cationandothermatters.SeeNote8totheConsolidatedFinancial
Statementsforfurtherinformationregardingincometaxes.
Accruedpromotions 107 330 (353) 84
AtJanuary3,2010andDecember28,2008,thecumulative
Subtotal $1,858 4,452 (4,820) 1,490
amountsofundistributedinternationalearningswereapproximately
Reservefordoubtfulaccounts 48 37 (2) 83
$32.2billionand$27.7billion,respectively.TheCompanyintends
Reserveforcashdiscounts 23 462 (437) 48
tocontinuetoreinvestitsundistributedinternationalearningsto
Total $1,929 4,951 (5,259) 1,621 expanditsinternationaloperations;therefore,noU.S.taxexpense
hasbeenrecordedwithrespecttotheundistributedportionnot
2008
intendedforrepatriation.
Accruedrebates(1) $1,249 3,331 (3,319) 1,261
Accruedreturns 345 168 (23) 490 LegalandSelfInsuranceContingencies:TheCompanyrecords
Accruedpromotions 263 414 (570) 107 accrualsforvariouscontingenciesincludinglegalproceedingsand
Subtotal $1,857 3,913 (3,912) 1,858 productliabilitycasesastheseariseinthenormalcourseofbusi-
ness.Theaccrualsarebasedonmanagement’sjudgmentastothe
Reservefordoubtfulaccounts 26 24 (2) 48
probabilityoflossesand,whereapplicable,actuariallydetermined
Reserveforcashdiscounts 24 376 (377) 23
estimates.Additionally,theCompanyrecordsinsurancereceivable
Total $1,907 4,313(2) (4,291) 1,929
amountsfromthird-partyinsurerswhenrecoveryisprobable.As
(1)Includesreserveforcustomerrebatesof$372millionatJanuary3,2010and$344 appropriate,reservesagainstthesereceivablesarerecordedforesti-
millionatDecember28,2008,recordedasacontraasset. matedamountsthatmaynotbecollectedfromthird-partyinsurers.
(2)Includes$115millionadjustmentrelatedtopreviouslyestimatedaccruedsalesreserves.
Long-LivedandIntangibleAssets:TheCompanyassesseschanges
MEDICALDEVICESANDDIAGNOSTICSSEGMENT ineconomicconditionsandmakesassumptionsregardingestimated
futurecashflowsinevaluatingthevalueoftheCompany’sproperty,
Balanceat Balanceat
plantandequipment,goodwillandintangibleassets.Asthese
Beginning Payments/ End
(DollarsinMillions) ofPeriod Accruals Other ofPeriod assumptionsandestimatesmaychangeovertime,itmayormaynot
2009 benecessaryfortheCompanytorecordimpairmentcharges.
Accruedrebates(1) $416 2,229 (2,191) 454
EmployeeBenefitPlans:TheCompanysponsorsvariousretirement
Accruedreturns 189 74 (43) 220 andpensionplans,includingdefinedbenefit,definedcontribution
Accruedpromotions 47 120 (94) 73 andterminationindemnityplans,whichcovermostemployees
Subtotal $652 2,423 (2,328) 747 worldwide.Theseplansarebasedonassumptionsforthediscount
Reservefordoubtfulaccounts 109 50 (16) 143 rate,expectedreturnonplanassets,expectedsalaryincreasesand
Reserveforcashdiscounts 34 416 (418) 32 healthcarecosttrendrates.SeeNote10totheConsolidatedFinan-
cialStatementsforfurtherdetailsontheseratesandtheeffecta
Total $795 2,889 (2,762) 922
ratechangewouldhaveontheCompany’sresultsofoperations.
2008
StockBasedCompensation:TheCompanyrecognizescompensa-
Accruedrebates(1) $336 1,947 (1,867) 416
tionexpenseassociatedwiththeissuanceofequityinstrumentsto
Accruedreturns 190 99 (100) 189
employeesfortheirservices.Thefairvalueofeachawardisesti-
Accruedpromotions 18 208 (179) 47
matedonthedateofgrantusingtheBlack-Scholesoptionvaluation
Subtotal $544 2,254 (2,146) 652 modelandisexpensedinthefinancialstatementsoverthevesting
Reservefordoubtfulaccounts 96 36 (23) 109 period.Theinputassumptionsusedindeterminingfairvalueare
Reserveforcashdiscounts 24 257 (247) 34 theexpectedlife,expectedvolatility,risk-freerateandthedividend
Total $664 2,547(2) (2,416) 795 yield.SeeNote17totheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsfor
additionalinformation.
(1)Includesreserveforcustomerrebatesof$311millionatJanuary3,2010and$304million
atDecember28,2008,recordedasacontraasset.
(2)Includes$56millionadjustmentrelatedtopreviouslyestimatedsalesrebatereserve. NEWACCOUNTINGPRONOUNCEMENTS
RefertoNote1totheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsforrecently
IncomeTaxes:Incometaxesarerecordedbasedonamountsrefund-
adoptedaccountingpronouncementsandrecentlyissuedaccount-
ableorpayableforthecurrentyearandincludetheresultsofany
ingpronouncementsnotyetadoptedasofJanuary3,2010.
differencebetweenGAAPaccountingandtaxreporting,recorded
asdeferredtaxassetsorliabilities.TheCompanyestimatesdeferred
ECONOMICANDMARKETFACTORS
taxassetsandliabilitiesbasedoncurrenttaxregulationsandrates.
TheCompanyisawarethatitsproductsareusedinanenvironment
Changesintaxlawsandratesmayaffectrecordeddeferredtax
where,formorethanadecade,policymakers,consumersandbusi-
assetsandliabilitiesinthefuture.Managementbelievesthat
nesseshaveexpressedconcernsabouttherisingcostofhealthcare.
changesintheseestimateswouldnothaveamaterialeffectonthe
Inresponsetotheseconcerns,theCompanyhasalong-standing
Company’sresultsofoperations,cashflowsorfinancialposition.
policyofpricingproductsresponsibly.Fortheperiod1999–2009,in
theUnitedStates,theweightedaveragecompoundannualgrowth
rateoftheCompany’snetpriceincreasesforhealthcareproducts
34 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORT(prescriptionandover-the-counterdrugs,hospitalandprofessional COMMONSTOCKMARKETPRICES
products)wasbelowtheU.S.ConsumerPriceIndex(CPI). TheCompany’scommonstockislistedontheNewYorkStock
Inflationratescontinuetohaveaneffectonworldwide ExchangeunderthesymbolJNJ.Thecompositemarketpriceranges
economiesand,consequently,onthewaycompaniesoperate. forJohnson&Johnsoncommonstockduring2009and2008were:
TheCompanywillaccountforoperationsinVenezuelaashighly
inflationaryin2010,asthepriorthree-yearcumulativeinflation
________2_0__0_9________ ________2_0_0__8________
High Low High Low
ratehassurpassed100%.Inthefaceofincreasingcosts,theCom-
Firstquarter $61.00 46.25 68.85 61.17
panystrivestomaintainitsprofitmarginsthroughcostreduction
Secondquarter 56.65 50.12 68.32 63.40
programs,productivityimprovementsandperiodicpriceincreases.
Thirdquarter 62.47 55.71 72.76 63.10
TheCompanyisexposedtofluctuationsincurrencyexchange
rates.A1%changeinthevalueoftheU.S.dollarascomparedto Fourthquarter 65.41 58.78 69.86 52.06
allforeigncurrenciesinwhichtheCompanyhadsales,incomeor Year-endclose $64.41 58.56
expensein2009wouldhaveincreasedordecreasedthetranslation
offoreignsalesby$300millionandincomeby$50million. CautionaryFactorsThatMayAffect
TheCompanyfacesvariousworldwidehealthcarechanges
FutureResults
thatmaycontinuetoresultinpricingpressuresthatincludehealth
carecostcontainmentandgovernmentlegislationrelatingtosales, ThisAnnualReportcontainsforward-lookingstatements.Forward-
promotionsandreimbursement. lookingstatementsdonotrelatestrictlytohistoricalorcurrentfacts
Changesinthebehaviorandspendingpatternsofpurchasers andanticipateresultsbasedonmanagement’splansthataresub-
ofhealthcareproductsandservices,includingdelayingmedical jecttouncertainty.Forward-lookingstatementsmaybeidentified
procedures,rationingprescriptionmedications,reducingthefre- bytheuseofwordssuchas“plans,”“expects,”“will,”“anticipates,”
quencyofphysicianvisitsandforegoinghealthcareinsurance “estimates”andotherwordsofsimilarmeaninginconjunctionwith,
coverage,asaresultofthecurrentglobaleconomicdownturnmay amongotherthings,discussionsoffutureoperations,financial
continuetoimpacttheCompany’sbusinesses. performance,theCompany’sstrategyforgrowth,productdevelop-
TheCompanyalsooperatesinanenvironmentwhichhas ment,regulatoryapproval,marketpositionandexpenditures.
becomeincreasinglyhostiletointellectualpropertyrights.Generic Forward-lookingstatementsarebasedoncurrentexpectations
drugfirmshavefiledAbbreviatedNewDrugApplications(ANDAs) offutureevents.TheCompanycannotguaranteethatanyforward-
seekingtomarketgenericformsofmostoftheCompany’skeyphar- lookingstatementwillbeaccurate,althoughtheCompanybelieves
maceuticalproducts,priortoexpirationoftheapplicablepatents thatithasbeenreasonableinitsexpectationsandassumptions.
coveringthoseproducts.IntheeventtheCompanyisnotsuccessful Investorsshouldrealizethatifunderlyingassumptionsproveinac-
indefendingthepatentclaimschallengedinANDAfilings,the curateorthatunknownrisksoruncertaintiesmaterialize,actual
genericfirmswillthenintroducegenericversionsoftheproduct resultscouldvarymateriallyfromtheCompany’sexpectationsand
atissue,resultinginthepotentialforsubstantialmarketshareand projections.Investorsarethereforecautionednottoplaceundue
revenuelossesforthatproduct.Forfurtherinformationseethe relianceonanyforward-lookingstatements.TheCompanydoesnot
discussionon“LitigationAgainstFilersofAbbreviatedNewDrug undertaketoupdateanyforward-lookingstatementsasaresultof
Applications”inNote21totheConsolidatedFinancialStatements. newinformationorfutureeventsordevelopments.
Risksanduncertaintiesincludegeneralindustryconditions
LEGALPROCEEDINGS andcompetition;economicconditions,suchasinterestrateand
TheCompanyisinvolvedinnumerousproductliabilitycasesinthe currencyexchangeratefluctuations;technologicaladvances,
UnitedStates,manyofwhichconcernallegedadversereactionsto newproductsandpatentsattainedbycompetitors;challenges
drugsandmedicaldevices.Thedamagesclaimedaresubstantial, inherentinnewproductdevelopment,includingobtainingregula-
andwhiletheCompanyisconfidentoftheadequacyofthewarnings toryapprovals;challengestopatents;U.S.andforeignhealthcare
andinstructionsforusewhichaccompanysuchproducts,itisnot reformsandgovernmentallawsandregulations;trendstoward
feasibletopredicttheultimateoutcomeoflitigation.However,the healthcarecostcontainment;increasedscrutinyofthehealth
Companybelievesthatifanyliabilityresultsfromsuchcases,it careindustrybygovernmentagencies;productefficacyorsafety
willbesubstantiallycoveredbyexistingamountsaccruedinthe concernsresultinginproductrecallsorregulatoryaction.
Company’sbalancesheetunderitsself-insuranceprogramandby TheCompany’sreportonForm10-Kfortheyearended
third-partyproductliabilityinsurance. January3,2010includes,inExhibit99,adiscussionofadditional
TheCompanyisalsoinvolvedinanumberofpatent,trademark factorsthatcouldcauseactualresultstodifferfromexpectations.
andotherlawsuits,aswellasinvestigations,incidentaltoitsbusi- TheCompanynotesthesefactorsaspermittedbythePrivate
ness.TheultimatelegalandfinancialliabilityoftheCompanyin SecuritiesLitigationReformActof1995.
respecttoallclaims,lawsuitsandproceedingsreferredtoabove
cannotbeestimatedwithanycertainty.However,intheCompany’s
opinion,basedonitsexaminationofthesematters,itsexperience
todateanddiscussionswithcounsel,theultimateoutcomeoflegal
proceedings,netofliabilitiesalreadyaccruedintheCompany’s
balancesheet,isnotexpectedtohaveamaterialadverseeffecton
theCompany’sfinancialcondition,althoughtheresolutioninany
reportingperiodofoneormoreofthesematterscouldhavea
significantimpactontheCompany’sresultsofoperationsand
cashflowsforthatperiod.
SeeNote21totheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsfor
furtherinformationregardinglegalproceedings.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 35Consolidated Balance Sheets Johnson & Johnson and Subsidiaries
At January 3, 2010 and December 28, 2008 (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Data) (Note 1) 2009 2008
Assets
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents (Notes 1 and 2) $15,810 10,768
Marketable securities (Notes 1 and 2) 3,615 2,041
Accounts receivable trade, less allowances for doubtful accounts $333 (2008, $268) 9,646 9,719
Inventories (Notes 1 and 3) 5,180 5,052
Deferred taxes on income (Note 8) 2,793 3,430
Prepaid expenses and other receivables 2,497 3,367
Total current assets 39,541 34,377
Property, plant and equipment, net (Notes 1 and 4) 14,759 14,365
Intangible assets, net (Notes 1 and 5) 16,323 13,976
Goodwill (Notes 1 and 5) 14,862 13,719
Deferred taxes on income (Note 8) 5,507 5,841
Other assets 3,690 2,634
Total assets $94,682 84,912
Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity
Current liabilities
Loans and notes payable (Note 7) $ 6,318 3,732
Accounts payable 5,541 7,503
Accrued liabilities 5,796 5,531
Accrued rebates, returns and promotions 2,028 2,237
Accrued salaries, wages and commissions 1,606 1,432
Accrued taxes on income 442 417
Total current liabilities 21,731 20,852
Long-term debt (Note 7) 8,223 8,120
Deferred taxes on income (Note 8) 1,424 1,432
Employee related obligations (Notes 9 and 10) 6,769 7,791
Other liabilities 5,947 4,206
Total liabilities 44,094 42,401
Shareholders’ equity
Preferred stock — without par value
(authorized and unissued 2,000,000 shares) — —
Common stock — par value $1.00 per share (Note 12)
(authorized 4,320,000,000 shares; issued 3,119,843,000 shares) 3,120 3,120
Accumulated other comprehensive income (Note 13) (3,058) (4,955)
Retained earnings 70,306 63,379
70,368 61,544
Less: common stock held in treasury, at cost (Note 12)
(365,522,000 shares and 350,665,000 shares) 19,780 19,033
Total shareholders’ equity 50,588 42,511
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $94,682 84,912
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
36 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTConsolidated Statements of Earnings Johnson & Johnson and Subsidiaries
(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Figures) (Note 1) 2009 2008 2007
Sales to customers $61,897 63,747 61,095
Cost of products sold 18,447 18,511 17,751
Gross profit 43,450 45,236 43,344
Selling, marketing and administrative expenses 19,801 21,490 20,451
Research expense 6,986 7,577 7,680
Purchased in-process research and development (Note 20) — 181 807
Interest income (90) (361) (452)
Interest expense, net of portion capitalized (Note 4) 451 435 296
Other (income) expense, net (526) (1,015) 534
Restructuring (Note 22) 1,073 — 745
Earnings before provision for taxes on income 15,755 16,929 13,283
Provision for taxes on income (Note 8) 3,489 3,980 2,707
Net earnings $12,266 12,949 10,576
Basic net earnings per share (Notes 1 and 15) $ 4.45 4.62 3.67
Diluted net earnings per share (Notes 1 and 15) $ 4.40 4.57 3.63
Cash dividends per share $ 1.930 1.795 1.620
Basic average shares outstanding (Notes 1 and 15) 2,759.5 2,802.5 2,882.9
Diluted average shares outstanding (Notes 1 and 15) 2,789.1 2,835.6 2,910.7
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37Consolidated Statements of Equity Johnson & Johnson and Subsidiaries
Accumulated
Other Treasury
Comprehensive Retained Comprehensive Common Stock Stock
(Dollars in Millions) (Note 1) Total Income Earnings Income Issued Amount Amount
Balance, December 31, 2006 $39,318 49,290 (2,118) 3,120 (10,974)
Net earnings 10,576 10,576 10,576
Cash dividends paid (4,670) (4,670)
Employee compensation
and stock option plans 2,311 131 2,180
Conversion of subordinated debentures 9 (4) 13
Repurchase of common stock (5,607) (5,607)
Adoption of FIN 48 (19) (19)
Other (24) (24)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
Currency translation adjustment 786 786 786
Unrealized gains on securities 23 23 23
Employee benefit plans 670 670 670
Losses on derivatives & hedges (54) (54) (54)
Reclassification adjustment (5)
Total comprehensive income 11,996
Balance, December 30, 2007 $43,319 55,280 (693) 3,120 (14,388)
Net earnings 12,949 12,949 12,949
Cash dividends paid (5,024) (5,024)
Employee compensation
and stock option plans 2,180 175 2,005
Conversion of subordinated debentures — (1) 1
Repurchase of common stock (6,651) (6,651)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
Currency translation adjustment (2,499) (2,499) (2,499)
Unrealized losses on securities (59) (59) (59)
Employee benefit plans (1,870) (1,870) (1,870)
Gains on derivatives & hedges 166 166 166
Reclassification adjustment (27)
Total comprehensive income 8,660
Balance, December 28, 2008 $42,511 63,379 (4,955) 3,120 (19,033)
Net earnings 12,266 12,266 12,266
Cash dividends paid (5,327) (5,327)
Employee compensation
and stock option plans 1,402 25 1,377
Conversion of subordinated debentures 2 (4) 6
Repurchase of common stock (2,130) (2,130)
Other (33) (33)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
Currency translation adjustment 1,363 1,363 1,363
Unrealized losses on securities (55) (55) (55)
Employee benefit plans 565 565 565
Gains on derivatives & hedges 24 24 24
Total comprehensive income 14,163
Balance, January 3, 2010 $50,588 70,306 (3,058) 3,120 (19,780)
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
38 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTConsolidated Statements of Cash Flows Johnson & Johnson and Subsidiaries
(Dollars in Millions) (Note 1) 2009 2008 2007
Cash flows from operating activities
Net earnings $12,266 12,949 10,576
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to cash flows from
operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization of property and intangibles 2,774 2,832 2,777
Stock based compensation 628 627 698
Purchased in-process research and development — 181 807
Intangible asset write-down (NATRECOR®) — — 678
Deferred tax provision (436) 22 (1,762)
Accounts receivable allowances 58 86 22
Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from acquisitions:
Decrease/(increase) in accounts receivable 453 (736) (416)
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 95 (101) 14
(Decrease)/increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities (507) (272) 2,642
Decrease/(increase) in other current and non-current assets 1,209 (1,600) (1,578)
Increase in other current and non-current liabilities 31 984 564
Net cash flows from operating activities 16,571 14,972 15,022
Cash flows from investing activities
Additions to property, plant and equipment (2,365) (3,066) (2,942)
Proceeds from the disposal of assets 154 785 457
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired (Note 20) (2,470) (1,214) (1,388)
Purchases of investments (10,040) (3,668) (9,659)
Sales of investments 7,232 3,059 7,988
Other (primarily intangibles) (109) (83) (368)
Net cash used by investing activities (7,598) (4,187) (5,912)
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends to shareholders (5,327) (5,024) (4,670)
Repurchase of common stock (2,130) (6,651) (5,607)
Proceeds from short-term debt 9,484 8,430 19,626
Retirement of short-term debt (6,791) (7,319) (21,691)
Proceeds from long-term debt 9 1,638 5,100
Retirement of long-term debt (219) (24) (18)
Proceeds from the exercise of stock options/excess tax benefits 882 1,486 1,562
Net cash used by financing activities (4,092) (7,464) (5,698)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 161 (323) 275
Increase in cash and cash equivalents 5,042 2,998 3,687
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year (Note 1) 10,768 7,770 4,083
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year (Note 1) $15,810 10,768 7,770
Supplemental cash flow data
Cash paid during the year for:
Interest $ 533 525 314
Income taxes 2,363 4,068 4,099
Supplemental schedule of noncash investing and financing activities
Treasury stock issued for employee compensation and
stock option plans, net of cash proceeds $ 541 593 738
Conversion of debt 2 — 9
Acquisitions
Fair value of assets acquired $ 3,345 1,328 1,620
Fair value of liabilities assumed and non-controlling interests (875) (114) (232)
Net cash paid for acquisitions $ 2,470 1,214 1,388
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 39NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements
1.SummaryofSignificantAccountingPolicies Duringthefiscalsecondquarterof2009,inaccordancewith
PRINCIPLESOFCONSOLIDATION U.S.GAAP,theCompanyadoptedthestandardsonsubsequent
Theconsolidatedfinancialstatementsincludetheaccountsof events.Thispronouncementestablishesstandardsofaccounting
Johnson&Johnsonandsubsidiaries(the“Company”).Inter- foranddisclosureofeventsthatoccurafterthebalancesheet
companyaccountsandtransactionsareeliminated. datebutbeforefinancialstatementsareissued.SeeNote23for
relateddisclosure.
DESCRIPTIONOFTHECOMPANYANDBUSINESSSEGMENTS Duringthefiscalfirstquarterof2009,inaccordancewithU.S.
TheCompanyhasapproximately115,500employeesworldwide GAAP,theCompanyadoptedthestandardsonbusinesscombina-
engagedintheresearchanddevelopment,manufactureandsaleof tionsandnon-controllinginterestsinConsolidatedFinancialState-
abroadrangeofproductsinthehealthcarefield.TheCompany ments.Thesestandardsaimtoimprove,simplify,andconverge
conductsbusinessinvirtuallyallcountriesoftheworldanditspri- internationally,theaccountingforbusinesscombinationsandthe
maryfocusisonproductsrelatedtohumanhealthandwell-being. reportingofnon-controllinginterestsinconsolidatedfinancialstate-
TheCompanyisorganizedintothreebusinesssegments: ments.Thesestandardshaveanimpactonthemannerinwhichthe
Consumer,PharmaceuticalandMedicalDevicesandDiagnostics. Companyaccountsforacquisitionsbeginninginthefiscalyear
TheConsumersegmentmanufacturesandmarketsabroadrange 2009.Significantchangesincludethecapitalizationofpurchased
ofproductsusedinthebabycare,skincare,oralcare,woundcare in-processresearchanddevelopment(IPR&D),expensingofacqui-
andwomen’shealthcarefields,aswellasnutritionalandover-the- sitionrelatedrestructuringactionsandtransactionrelatedcostsand
counterpharmaceuticalproducts.Theseproductsaremarketedto therecognitionofcontingentpurchasepriceconsiderationatfair
thegeneralpublicandsoldbothtoretailoutletsanddistributors valueattheacquisitiondate.Inaddition,changesinaccountingfor
throughouttheworld.ThePharmaceuticalsegmentincludesprod- deferredtaxassetvaluationallowancesandacquiredincometax
uctsinthefollowingtherapeuticareas:anti-infective,antipsychotic, uncertaintiesafterthemeasurementperiodwillberecognizedin
cardiovascular,contraceptive,dermatology,gastrointestinal,hema- earningsratherthanasanadjustmenttothecostofacquisition.
tology,immunology,neurology,oncology,painmanagement,urol- Thisaccountingtreatmentfortaxesisapplicabletoacquisitionsthat
ogyandvirology.Theseproductsaredistributeddirectlytoretailers, occurredbothpriorandsubsequenttotheadoptionofthestandard.
wholesalersandhealthcareprofessionalsforprescriptionuse.The Operatingprofitattributabletonon-controllinginterestsisreported
MedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegmentincludesabroadrangeof inOther(Income)Expense,netandtherelatedtaximpacttothe
productsusedprincipallyintheprofessionalfieldsbyphysicians, ProvisionforTaxes.Additionally,equityattributabletonon-
nurses,therapists,hospitals,diagnosticlaboratoriesandclinics. controllinginterestsisrecordedinOtherNon-Currentliabilities.
TheseproductsincludeCordis’circulatorydiseasemanagement Non-controllinginterestsasrelatedtotheCompany’sfinancial
products;DePuy’sorthopaedicjointreconstruction,spinalcareand statementsareimmaterialandtherefore,notseparatelydisclosed.
sportsmedicineproducts;Ethicon’ssurgicalcare,aestheticsand Duringthefiscalfirstquarterof2009,inaccordancewithU.S.
women’shealthproducts;EthiconEndo-Surgery’sminimallyinva- GAAP,theCompanyadoptedthestandardrelatedtodisclosures
sivesurgicalproducts;LifeScan’sbloodglucosemonitoringand aboutderivativeinstrumentsandhedgingactivities,which
insulindeliveryproducts;Ortho-ClinicalDiagnostics’professional enhancedthedisclosureregardingtheCompany’sderivativeand
diagnosticproductsandVistakon’sdisposablecontactlenses. hedgingactivities.Theadoptionofthisstandarddidnothavea
materialimpactontheCompany’sresultsofoperations,cashflows
NEWACCOUNTINGPRONOUNCEMENTS orfinancialposition.SeeNote6forenhanceddisclosures.
RECENTLYADOPTEDACCOUNTINGPRONOUNCEMENTS Duringthefiscalfirstquarterof2009,inaccordancewithU.S.
Duringthefiscalfourthquarterof2009,inaccordancewithU.S. GAAP,theCompanyadoptedthestandardoncollaborativearrange-
GAAP,theCompanyadoptedtheauthoritativeguidancefor mentsrelatedtothedevelopmentandcommercializationofintel-
employers’disclosuresaboutpostretirementbenefitplanassetsto lectualproperty.Thisstandardaddressestheincomestatement
enhancethedisclosureregardingthetypesofassetsandassociated classificationofpaymentsmadebetweenpartiesinacollaborative
risksinanemployer’sdefinedbenefitpensionorotherpostretire- arrangement.Theimpactoftheadoptionofthisstandardrelatedto
mentplan,aswellas,eventsintheeconomyandmarketsthatcould allcollaborationagreementsthatexistedasofJanuary3,2010and
haveasignificanteffectonthevalueoftheplanassets.Theadop- December28,2008wasimmaterialtotheCompany’sresultsof
tionofthisstandarddidnothaveamaterialimpactontheCom- operations,cashflowsorfinancialposition.
pany’sresultsofoperations,cashflowsorfinancialposition.See Duringthefiscalfirstquarterof2009,inaccordancewithU.S.
Note10forenhanceddisclosures. GAAP,theCompanyadoptedthestandardrelatedtodefensive
Duringthefiscalthirdquarterof2009,theCompanyadopted intangibleassets.Thisstandardappliestoacquiredintangible
TheFASBAccountingStandardsCodificationTM(ASCorCodification) assetsinsituationsinwhichanentitydoesnotintendtoactivelyuse
andtheHierarchyofGenerallyAcceptedAccountingPrinciples(GAAP) theassetbutintendstoholdtheassettopreventothersfrom
whichestablishestheCodificationasthesolesourceforauthorita- obtainingaccesstotheasset,exceptforintangibleassetsthatare
tiveU.S.GAAPandwillsupersedeallaccountingstandardsinU.S. usedinresearchanddevelopmentactivities.Theadoptionofthis
GAAP,asidefromthoseissuedbytheSEC.TheadoptionoftheCod- standarddidnothaveamaterialimpactontheCompany’sresultsof
ificationdidnothaveanimpactontheCompany’sresultsofopera- operations,cashflowsorfinancialposition.
tions,cashflowsorfinancialposition.Sincetheadoptionofthe
AccountingStandardsCodification(ASC)theCompany’snotesto RECENTLYISSUEDACCOUNTINGSTANDARDS,
theconsolidatedfinancialstatementswillnolongermakereference NOTADOPTEDASOFJANUARY3,2010
toStatementofFinancialAccountingStandards(SFAS)orotherU.S. TheFASBissuedguidanceandamendmentstothecriteriaforsepa-
GAAPpronouncements. ratingconsiderationinmultiple-deliverablerevenuearrangements.
40 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTTheguidanceandamendmentsareexpectedto:(a)provideprinci- itscarryingvalue.Ifquotedmarketpricesarenotavailable,the
plesandapplicationguidanceonwhethermultipledeliverables Companywillestimatefairvalueusingadiscountedvalueof
exist,howthearrangementshouldbeseparated,andtheconsidera- estimatedfuturecashflows.
tionallocated;(b)requireanentitytoallocaterevenueinan
arrangementusingestimatedsellingpricesofdeliverablesifaven- REVENUERECOGNITION
dordoesnothavevendor-specificobjectiveevidenceorthird-party TheCompanyrecognizesrevenuefromproductsaleswhenthe
evidenceofsellingprice;and(c)eliminatetheuseoftheresidual goodsareshippedordeliveredandtitleandriskoflosspasstothe
methodandrequireanentitytoallocatetherevenueusingthe customer.Provisionsforcertainrebates,salesincentives,tradepro-
relativesellingpricemethod.Theguidancesignificantlyexpandsthe motions,coupons,productreturnsanddiscountstocustomersare
disclosurerequirementsformultiple-deliverablerevenuearrange- accountedforasreductionsinsalesinthesameperiodtherelated
ments.Thisguidanceiseffectiveprospectivelyforrevenuearrange- salesarerecorded.
mentsenteredintoormateriallymodifiedinfiscalyearsbeginning Productdiscountsgrantedarebasedonthetermsofarrange-
onorafterJune15,2010.Earlyadoptionispermitted.TheCompany mentswithdirect,indirectandothermarketparticipants,aswell
adoptedthisguidanceinthefirstfiscalquarterof2010.Theadop- asmarketconditions,includingpriceschargedbycompetitors.
tionwillnothaveamaterialimpactontheCompany’sresultsof Rebates,thelargestbeingtheMedicaidrebateprovision,areesti-
operations,cashflowsorfinancialposition;however,itwillexpand matedbasedoncontractualterms,historicalexperience,trend
thedisclosuresforsucharrangements. analysisandprojectedmarketconditionsinthevariousmarkets
TheFASBissuedastandardtoimprovefinancialreportingby served.TheCompanyevaluatesmarketconditionsforproductsor
enterprisesinvolvedwithvariableinterestentities.Thisstatement groupsofproductsprimarilythroughtheanalysisofwholesalerand
iseffectivefortheCompanybeginningwiththefiscalyear2010. otherthird-partysell-throughandmarketresearchdata,aswellas
Earlierapplicationisprohibited.Theadoptionofthisstandardwill internallygeneratedinformation.
nothaveamaterialimpactontheCompany’sresultsofoperations, Salesreturnsaregenerallyestimatedandrecordedbasedon
cashflowsorfinancialposition. historicalsalesandreturnsinformation.Productsthatexhibit
unusualsalesorreturnpatternsduetodating,competitionorother
CASHEQUIVALENTS marketingmattersarespecificallyinvestigatedandanalyzedaspart
TheCompanyconsiderssecuritieswithmaturitiesofthreemonths oftheaccountingforsalesreturnaccruals.Salesreturnsallowances
orless,whenpurchased,tobecashequivalents. representareserveforproductsthatmaybereturnedduetoexpira-
tion,destructioninthefield,orinspecificareas,productrecall.The
INVESTMENTS returnsreserveisbasedonhistoricalreturntrendsbyproductand
Short-termmarketablesecuritiesarecarriedatcost,whichapproxi- bymarketasapercenttogrosssales.InaccordancewiththeCom-
matesfairvalue.Investmentsclassifiedasavailable-for-saleare pany’saccountingpolicies,theCompanygenerallyissuescreditto
carriedatestimatedfairvaluewithunrealizedgainsandlosses customersforreturnedgoods.TheCompany’ssalesreturnreserves
recordedasacomponentofaccumulatedothercomprehensive areaccountedforinaccordancewithU.S.GAAPguidanceregarding
income.Long-termdebtsecuritiesthattheCompanyhastheability revenuerecognitionwhenrightofreturnexists.Salesreturn
andintenttoholduntilmaturityarecarriedatamortizedcost. reservesarerecordedatfullsalesvalue.SalesreturnsintheCon-
Managementdeterminestheappropriateclassificationofits sumerandPharmaceuticalsegmentsarealmostexclusivelynot
investmentindebtandequitysecuritiesatthetimeofpurchase resalable.SalesreturnsforcertainfranchisesintheMedicalDevices
andre-evaluatessuchdeterminationateachbalancesheetdate. andDiagnosticssegmentaretypicallyresalablebutarenotmate-
TheCompanyperiodicallyreviewsitsinvestmentsinequity rial.TheCompanyrarelyexchangesproductsfrominventoryfor
securitiesforimpairmentandadjuststheseinvestmentstotheir returnedproducts.ThesalesreturnsreserveforthetotalCompany
fairvaluewhenadeclineinmarketvalueisdeemedtobeother hasrangedbetween1.1%and1.2%ofannualnettradesalesduring
thantemporary.Iflossesonthesesecuritiesareconsideredtobe thepriorthreefiscalreportingyears2007–2009.
otherthantemporary,thelossisrecognizedinearnings. Promotionalprograms,suchasproductlistingallowancesand
cooperativeadvertisingarrangements,arerecordedintheyear
PROPERTY,PLANTANDEQUIPMENTANDDEPRECIATION incurred.Continuingpromotionalprogramsincludecouponsand
Property,plantandequipmentarestatedatcost.TheCompany volume-basedsalesincentiveprograms.Theredemptioncostof
utilizesthestraight-linemethodofdepreciationovertheestimated consumercouponsisbasedonhistoricalredemptionexperienceby
usefullivesoftheassets: productandvalue.Volume-basedincentiveprogramsarebasedon
theestimatedsalesvolumesfortheincentiveperiodandare
Buildingandbuildingequipment 20–40years
recordedasproductsaresold.TheCompanyalsoearnsservicerev-
Landandleaseholdimprovements 10–20years
enueforco-promotionofcertainproductsandincludesitinsalesto
Machineryandequipment 2–13years
customers.Thesearrangementsareevaluatedtodeterminethe
TheCompanycapitalizescertaincomputersoftwareanddevelopment appropriateamountstobedeferred.
costs,includedinmachineryandequipment,whenincurred
inconnectionwithdevelopingorobtainingcomputersoftwarefor SHIPPINGANDHANDLING
internaluse.Capitalizedsoftwarecostsareamortizedoverthe Shippingandhandlingcostsincurredwere$964million,$1,017mil-
estimatedusefullivesofthesoftware,whichgenerallyrangefrom3to lionand$934millionin2009,2008and2007,respectively,and
8years. areincludedinselling,marketingandadministrativeexpense.The
TheCompanyreviewslong-livedassetstoassessrecoverability amountofrevenuereceivedforshippingandhandlingislessthan
usingundiscountedcashflows.Whencertaineventsorchangesin 0.5%ofsalestocustomersforallperiodspresented.
operatingoreconomicconditionsoccur,animpairmentassessment
maybeperformedontherecoverabilityofthecarryingvalueof INVENTORIES
theseassets.Iftheassetisdeterminedtobeimpaired,thelossis Inventoriesarestatedatthelowerofcostormarketdeterminedby
measuredbasedonthedifferencebetweentheasset’sfairvalueand thefirst-in,first-outmethod.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 41INTANGIBLEASSETSANDGOODWILL researchanddevelopmentexpensebecausetheperformanceof
TheauthoritativeliteratureonU.S.GAAPrequiresthatgoodwilland contractdevelopmentservicesisnotcentraltotheCompany’s
intangibleassetswithindefinitelivesbeassessedannuallyfor operations.Ingeneral,theincomestatementpresentationfor
impairment.TheCompanycompletedtheannualimpairmenttest thesecollaborationsisasfollows:
for2009inthefiscalfourthquarterandnoimpairmentwasdeter-
mined.Futureimpairmenttestswillbeperformedannuallyinthe Nature/TypeofCollaboration StatementofEarningsPresentation
Third-partysaleofproduct Salestocustomers
fiscalfourthquarter,orsoonerifatriggeringeventoccurs.
Intangibleassetsthathavefiniteusefullivescontinuetobe Royalties/milestonespaidto
collaborativepartner
amortizedovertheirusefullives,andarereviewedforimpairment
(post-regulatoryapproval)* Costofgoodssold
whenwarrantedbyeconomicconditions.SeeNote5forfurther
Royaltiesreceivedfrom
detailsonIntangibleAssetsandGoodwill.
collaborativepartner Otherincome(expense),net
Upfrontpayments&milestones
FINANCIALINSTRUMENTS
paidtocollaborativepartner
AsrequiredbyU.S.GAAPallderivativeinstrumentsarerecordedon
(pre-regulatoryapproval) Researchexpense
thebalancesheetatfairvalue.Changesinthefairvalueofderivatives
Researchanddevelopmentpayments
arerecordedeachperiodincurrentearningsorothercomprehensive
tocollaborativepartner Researchexpense
income,dependingonwhetherthederivativeisdesignatedaspartof
Researchanddevelopmentpayments
ahedgetransaction,andifso,thetypeofhedgetransaction.
receivedfromcollaborativepartner ReductionofResearchexpense
TheCompanydocumentsallrelationshipsbetweenhedgeditems
andderivatives.Theoverallriskmanagementstrategyincludesrea- *Milestonesarecapitalizedasintangibleassetsandamortizedtocostofgoodssoldover
theusefullife.
sonsforundertakinghedgetransactionsandenteringintoderivatives.
Theobjectivesofthisstrategyare:(1)minimizeforeigncurrencyexpo-
ADVERTISING
sure’simpactontheCompany’sfinancialperformance;(2)protectthe
Costsassociatedwithadvertisingareexpensedintheyearincurred
Company’scashflowfromadversemovementsinforeignexchange
andareincludedintheselling,marketingandadministrative
rates;(3)ensuretheappropriatenessoffinancialinstruments;and
expenses.Advertisingexpensesworldwide,whicharecomprisedof
(4)managetheenterpriseriskassociatedwithfinancialinstitutions.
television,radio,printmediaandInternetadvertising,were$2.4bil-
SeeNote6foradditionalinformationonFinancialInstruments.
lionin2009,$2.9billionin2008and$2.7billionin2007.
PRODUCTLIABILITY
INCOMETAXES
Accrualsforproductliabilityclaimsarerecorded,onanundis-
TheCompanyintendstocontinuetoreinvestitsundistributed
countedbasis,whenitisprobablethataliabilityhasbeenincurred
internationalearningstoexpanditsinternationaloperations;there-
andtheamountoftheliabilitycanbereasonablyestimatedbased
fore,noU.S.taxexpensehasbeenrecordedwithrespecttothe
onexistinginformation.Theaccrualsareadjustedperiodicallyas
undistributedportionnotintendedforrepatriation.AtJanuary3,
additionalinformationbecomesavailable.Asaresultofcostand
2010andDecember28,2008,thecumulativeamountofundistrib-
availabilityfactors,effectiveNovember1,2005,theCompany
utedinternationalearningswereapproximately$32.2billionand
ceasedpurchasingthird-partyproductliabilityinsurance.Basedon
$27.7billion,respectively.
theavailabilityofpriorcoverage,receivablesforinsurancerecover-
Deferredincometaxesarerecognizedfortaxconsequences
iesrelatedtoproductliabilityclaimsarerecordedonanundis-
oftemporarydifferencesbyapplyingenactedstatutorytaxrates,
countedbasis,whenitisprobablethatarecoverywillberealized.
applicabletofutureyears,todifferencesbetweenthefinancial
reportingandthetaxbasisofexistingassetsandliabilities.
RESEARCHANDDEVELOPMENT
Researchanddevelopmentexpensesareexpensedasincurred.
NETEARNINGSPERSHARE
Upfrontandmilestonepaymentsmadetothird-partiesinconnec-
Basicearningspershareiscomputedbydividingnetearningsavail-
tionwithresearchanddevelopmentcollaborationsareexpensedas
abletocommonshareholdersbytheweightedaveragenumberof
incurreduptothepointofregulatoryapproval.Paymentsmadeto
commonsharesoutstandingfortheperiod.Dilutedearningsper
third-partiessubsequenttoregulatoryapprovalarecapitalizedand
sharereflectsthepotentialdilutionthatcouldoccurifsecurities
amortizedovertheremainingusefullifeoftherelatedproduct.
wereexercisedorconvertedintocommonstockusingthetreasury
Amountscapitalizedforsuchpaymentsareincludedinother
stockmethod.
intangibles,netofaccumulatedamortization.
TheCompanyentersintocollaborativearrangements,typically
USEOFESTIMATES
withotherpharmaceuticalorbiotechnologycompanies,todevelop
Thepreparationofconsolidatedfinancialstatementsinconformity
andcommercializedrugcandidatesorintellectualproperty.These
withaccountingprinciplesgenerallyacceptedintheU.S.requires
arrangementstypicallyinvolvetwo(ormore)partieswhoareactive
managementtomakeestimatesandassumptionsthataffectthe
participantsinthecollaborationandareexposedtosignificantrisks
amountsreported.Estimatesareusedwhenaccountingforsales
andrewardsdependentonthecommercialsuccessoftheactivities.
discounts,rebates,allowancesandincentives,productliabilities,
Thesecollaborationsusuallyinvolvevariousactivitiesbyoneor
incometaxes,depreciation,amortization,employeebenefits,con-
moreparties,includingresearchanddevelopment,marketingand
tingenciesandintangibleassetandliabilityvaluations.Forinstance,
sellinganddistribution.Often,thesecollaborationsrequireupfront,
indeterminingannualpensionandpost-employmentbenefitcosts,
milestoneandroyaltyorprofitsharepayments,contingentuponthe
theCompanyestimatestherateofreturnonplanassets,andthe
occurrenceofcertainfutureeventslinkedtothesuccessoftheasset
costoffuturehealthcarebenefits.Actualresultsmayormaynot
indevelopment.Amountsduefromcollaborativepartnersrelatedto
differfromthoseestimates.
developmentactivitiesaregenerallyreflectedasareductionof
42 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTANNUALCLOSINGDATE RECLASSIFICATION
TheCompanyfollowstheconceptofafiscalyear,whichendson Certainpriorperiodamountshavebeenreclassifiedtoconformto
theSundaynearesttotheendofthemonthofDecember.Normally currentyearpresentation.
eachfiscalyearconsistsof52weeks,buteveryfiveorsixyearsthe
fiscalyearconsistsof53weeks,aswasthecasein2009andwill
bethecaseagainin2014.
2.Cash,CashEquivalentsandCurrentMarketableSecurities
________________J_a_n_u_a_r_y_3_,_2_0_10_________________ _______________D_e_c_e_m_b_e_r_2_8_,_2_0_0_8_______________
Amortized Unrealized Estimated Amortized Unrealized Estimated
(DollarsinMillions) Cost Gains/(Losses) FairValue Cost Gains/(Losses) FairValue
CurrentInvestments
Cash $2,517 — 2,517 3,276 — 3,276
Governmentsecuritiesandobligations 13,370 1 13,371 7,486 4 7,490
Corporatedebtsecurities 426 — 426 627 1 628
Moneymarketfunds 1,890 — 1,890 813 — 813
Timedeposits 1,222 — 1,222 607 — 607
Totalcash,cashequivalentsandcurrentmarketablesecurities $19,425 1 19,426 12,809 5 12,814
AsofJanuary3,2010,currentmarketablesecuritiesconsistof TheCompanycapitalizesinterestexpenseaspartofthecostof
$3,434millionand$181millionofgovernmentsecuritiesandobliga- constructionoffacilitiesandequipment.Interestexpensecapital-
tionsandcorporatedebtsecurities,respectively. izedin2009,2008and2007was$101million,$147millionand
AsofDecember28,2008,currentmarketablesecuritiescon- $130million,respectively.
sistof$1,663million,$342millionand$36millionofgovernment Depreciationexpense,includingtheamortizationofcapitalized
securitiesandobligations,corporatedebtsecuritiesandtime interestin2009,2008and2007,was$2.1billion,$2.0billionand
deposits,respectively. $1.9billion,respectively.
Fairvalueofgovernmentsecuritiesandobligationsand Uponretirementorotherdisposalofproperty,plantandequip-
corporatedebtsecuritieswereestimatedusingquotedbroker ment,thecostsandrelatedamountsofaccumulateddepreciation
pricesinactivemarkets. oramortizationareeliminatedfromtheassetandaccumulated
TheCompanyinvestsitsexcesscashinbothdepositswith depreciationaccounts,respectively.Thedifference,ifany,between
majorbanksthroughouttheworldandotherhigh-qualitymoney thenetassetvalueandtheproceedsarerecordedinearnings.
marketinstruments.TheCompanyhasapolicyofmakinginvest-
mentsonlywithcommercialinstitutionsthathaveatleastanA
5.IntangibleAssetsandGoodwill
(orequivalent)creditrating.
Attheendof2009and2008,thegrossandnetamountsofintangi-
bleassetswere:
3.Inventories
(DollarsinMillions) 2009 2008
Attheendof2009and2008,inventorieswerecomprisedof:
Intangibleassetswithdefinitelives:
(DollarsinMillions) 2009 2008 Patentsandtrademarks—gross $5,697 5,119
Rawmaterialsandsupplies $1,144 839 Lessaccumulatedamortization 2,177 1,820
Goodsinprocess 1,395 1,372 Patentsandtrademarks—net $3,520 3,299
Finishedgoods 2,641 2,841
Otherintangibles—gross $7,808 7,376
$5,180 5,052
Lessaccumulatedamortization 2,680 2,433
Otherintangibles—net $5,128 4,943
4.Property,PlantandEquipment Totalintangibleassetswithdefinitelives—gross $13,505 12,495
Attheendof2009and2008,property,plantandequipmentatcost Lessaccumulatedamortization 4,857 4,253
andaccumulateddepreciationwere: Totalintangibleassetswithdefinitelives—net $8,648 8,242
Intangibleassetswithindefinitelives:
(DollarsinMillions) 2009 2008
Landandlandimprovements $ 714 886 Trademarks $5,938 5,734
Buildingsandbuildingequipment 8,863 7,720 Purchasedin-processresearchanddevelopment* 1,737 —
Machineryandequipment 17,153 15,234 Totalintangibleassetswithindefinitelives $7,675 5,734
Constructioninprogress 2,521 3,552 Totalintangibleassets—net $16,323 13,976
29,251 27,392 *Purchasedin-processresearchanddevelopmentwillbeaccountedforasanindefinite-
Lessaccumulateddepreciation 14,492 13,027 livedintangibleassetuntiltheunderlyingprojectiscompletedorabandoned.
$14,759 14,365
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 43GoodwillasofJanuary3,2010andDecember28,2008,as AsrequiredbyU.S.GAAPforderivativeinstrumentsandhedg-
allocatedbysegmentofbusinessisasfollows: ingactivities,allderivativeinstrumentsaretoberecordedonthe
balancesheetatfairvalue.Changesinthefairvalueofderivatives
MedDev
arerecordedeachperiodincurrentearningsorothercomprehen-
(DollarsinMillions) Consumer Pharm andDiag Total
siveincome,dependingonwhetherthederivativeisdesignatedas
GoodwillatDecember30,2007 $8,125 964 5,034 14,123
partofahedgetransaction,andifso,thetypeofhedgetransaction.
Acquisitions 191 — 286 477
Thedesignationasacashflowhedgeismadeattheentrance
Currencytranslation/other (842) (1) (38) (881)
dateintothederivativecontract.Atinception,allderivativesare
GoodwillatDecember28,2008 $7,474 963 5,282 13,719 expectedtobehighlyeffective.Changesinthefairvalueofa
Acquisitions — 271 401 672 derivativethatisdesignatedasacashflowhedgeandishighly
Currencytranslation/other* 600 10 (139) 471 effectivearerecordedinaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome
GoodwillatJanuary3,2010 $8,074 1,244 5,544 14,862 untiltheunderlyingtransactionaffectsearnings,andarethen
reclassifiedtoearningsinthesameaccountasthehedgedtransac-
*Includesreclassificationbetweensegments.
tion.Gains/lossesonnetinvestmenthedgesareaccountedfor
Theweightedaverageamortizationperiodsforpatentsand throughthecurrencytranslationaccountandareinsignificant.
trademarksandotherintangibleassetsare17yearsand28years, Onanongoingbasis,theCompanyassesseswhethereachderiva-
respectively.Theamortizationexpenseofamortizableassetsfor tivecontinuestobehighlyeffectiveinoffsettingchangesinthe
thefiscalyearsendedJanuary3,2010,December28,2008and cashflowsofhedgeditems.Ifandwhenaderivativeisnolonger
December30,2007was$675million,$788millionand$844mil- expectedtobehighlyeffective,hedgeaccountingisdiscontinued.
lionbeforetax,respectively.Certainpatentsandintangibleassets Hedgeineffectiveness,ifany,isincludedincurrentperiodearnings
werewrittendowntofairvalueduringfiscalyears2009,2008and inother(income)andexpense,net,andwasinsignificantforthe
2007,withtheresultingchargeincludedinamortizationexpense. fiscalyearendedJanuary3,2010andDecember28,2008.Refer
Theestimatedamortizationexpenseforthefivesucceeding toNote13fordisclosuresofmovementsinAccumulatedOther
yearsapproximates$700millionbeforetax,peryear.Substantially ComprehensiveIncome.
alloftheamortizationexpenseisincludedincostofproductssold. AsofJanuary3,2010,thebalanceofdeferrednetgainson
derivativesincludedinaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome
was$145millionafter-tax.Foradditionalinformation,seeNote13.
6.FairValueMeasurements TheCompanyexpectsthatsubstantiallyalloftheamountrelated
Duringthefiscalfirstquarterof2009,inaccordancewithU.S. toforeignexchangecontractswillbereclassifiedintoearningsover
GAAPtheCompanyadoptedthestandardrelatedtodisclosures thenext12monthsasaresultoftransactionsthatareexpectedto
aboutderivativeinstrumentsandhedgingactivities.Thisstandard occuroverthatperiod.Themaximumlengthoftimeoverwhichthe
requiresqualitativedisclosuresaboutobjectivesandstrategiesfor Companyishedgingtransactionexposureis18monthsexcluding
usingderivatives,quantitativedisclosuresaboutfairvalueamounts interestrateswaps.Theamountultimatelyrealizedinearningswill
ofgainandlossesonderivativeinstruments,anddisclosuresabout differasforeignexchangerateschange.Realizedgainsandlosses
credit-risk-relatedcontingentfeaturesinderivativeagreements. areultimatelydeterminedbyactualexchangeratesatmaturityof
TheCompanyusesforwardexchangecontractstomanageits thederivative.
exposuretothevariabilityofcashflows,primarilyrelatedtothefor- Thefollowingtableisasummaryoftheactivityforthefiscal
eignexchangeratechangesoffutureintercompanyproductand yearendedJanuary3,2010relatedtodesignatedderivativesas
third-partypurchasesofrawmaterialsdenominatedinforeigncur- definedintheCodification:
rency.TheCompanyalsousescrosscurrencyinterestrateswapsto
managecurrencyriskprimarilyrelatedtoborrowings.Bothtypesof Gain/(Loss) Gain/(Loss)
Gain/(Loss) reclassedfrom recognized
derivativesaredesignatedascashflowhedges.TheCompanyalso recognizedin Accumulated inOther
usesforwardexchangecontractstomanageitsexposuretothe CashFlowHedges Accumulated OCIinto Income/
(DollarsinMillions) OCI(1) income(1) Expense(2)
variabilityofcashflowsforrepatriationofforeigndividends.These
Foreignexchangecontracts $(63) (47)(A) 1
contractsaredesignatedasnetinvestmenthedges.Additionally,
theCompanyusesforwardexchangecontractstooffsetitsexpo-
Foreignexchangecontracts (173) 70(B) (1)
suretocertainforeigncurrencyassetsandliabilities.Theseforward Foreignexchangecontracts 5 13(C) —
exchangecontractsarenotdesignatedashedgesandtherefore, Crosscurrencyinterestrateswaps 241 (16)(D) —
changesinthefairvaluesofthesederivativesarerecognizedin Foreignexchangecontracts 28 (6)(E) (12)
earnings,therebyoffsettingthecurrentearningseffectofthe Total $ 38 14 (12)
relatedforeigncurrencyassetsandliabilities.TheCompanydoes
(1)Effectiveportion
notenterintoderivativefinancialinstrumentsfortradingorspecu-
(2)Ineffectiveportion
lativepurposes,orcontaincreditriskrelatedcontingentfeaturesor
(A)IncludedinSalestocustomer
requirementstopostcollateral.OnanongoingbasistheCompany
(B)IncludedinCostofproductssold
monitorscounterpartycreditratings.TheCompanyconsiderscredit (C)IncludedinResearchexpense
non-performancerisktobelow,becausetheCompanyentersinto (D)IncludedinInterest(Income)/InterestExpense,net
agreementswithcommercialinstitutionsthathaveatleastanA (E)IncludedinOther(Income)/Expense,net
(orequivalent)creditrating.AsofJanuary3,2010,theCompany
hadnotionalamountsoutstandingforforwardforeignexchange ForthefiscalyearendedJanuary3,2010,againof$21millionwas
contractsandcrosscurrencyinterestrateswapsof$21billionand recognizedinOther(income)/expense,net,relatingtoforeign
$4billion,respectively. exchangecontractsnotdesignatedashedginginstrumentsunder
theCodification.
44 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTDuringthefiscalfirstquarterof2008,inaccordancewithU.S. During2009,theCompanyacquiredsubstantiallyalloftheassets
GAAP,theCompanyadoptedthestandardrelatedtofairvaluemeas- andrightsofElan’sAlzheimer’sImmunotherapyProgramthrougha
urementsexceptfornon-financialassetsandliabilitiesrecognizedor newlyformedcompany,JANSSENAlzheimerImmunotherapy(JAI),
disclosedatfairvalueonanon-recurringbasis,whichbecameeffec- ofwhichtheCompanyowns50.1%andElanowns49.9%.Inaddi-
tiveduringthefirstfiscalquarterof2009.Theeffectofadoptionon tion,theCompanypurchasedapproximately107millionnewly
December29,2008ofthisstandardfornon-financialassetsandlia- issuedAmericanDepositaryReceipts(ADRs)ofElan,representing
bilitiesrecordedatfairvalueonanon-recurringbasisdidnothavea 18.4%ofElan’soutstandingordinaryshares.Aspartofthistransac-
materialimpactontheCompany’sfinancialpositionandresultsof tion,theCompanypaid$885milliontoElanandcommittedtofund
operations.Thisstandarddefinesfairvalue,establishesaframework upto$250millionofElan’sshareofresearchanddevelopment
formeasuringfairvalueandexpandsdisclosuresaboutfairvalue spendingbyJAI.Ofthistotalconsiderationof$1,135million,$793
measurements.Duringthefiscalfirstquarterof2008,theCompany millionrepresentsthefairvalueofthe18.4%investmentinElan
adoptedthestandardrelatedtofairvalueoptionforfinancialassets basedonElan’ssharepriceinanactivelytradedmarketasofthe
andfinancialliabilities.ThisstandardpermitstheCompanytomeas- dateofthistransaction.TheIPR&Drelatedtothistransactionwas
urecertainfinancialassetsandfinancialliabilitiesatfairvalue.The $679millionandisassociatedwithbapineuzumab,apotentialfirst-
Companyassessedthefairvalueoptionmadeavailableuponadopting in-classtreatmentthatisbeingevaluatedforslowingtheprogres-
thisstandard,andhaselectednottoapplythefairvalueoptiontoany sionofAlzheimer’sDisease.ThevalueoftheIPR&Dwascalculated
financialinstrumentsthatwerenotalreadyrecognizedatfairvalue. usingcashflowprojectionsdiscountedfortheriskinherentinsuch
U.S.GAAPdefinesfairvalueastheexitpricethatwouldbe projects.Probabilityofsuccessfactorsrangingfrom40–50%were
receivedtosellanassetorpaidtotransferaliability.Fairvalueisa usedtoreflectinherentclinicalandregulatoryrisk.Thediscount
market-basedmeasurementthatshouldbedeterminedusing rateappliedwas26%.Thenon-controllinginterestrelatedtothis
assumptionsthatmarketparticipantswoulduseinpricinganasset transactionwas$590million,whichtheCompanyhasrecordedin
orliability.Theauthoritativeliteratureestablishesathree-levelhier- othernon-currentliabilities.
archytoprioritizetheinputsusedinmeasuringfairvalue.Thelevels During2009,theCompanyenteredintoastrategiccollabora-
withinthehierarchyaredescribedinthetablebelowwithlevel1 tionwithCrucellN.V.whichwillfocusonthediscovery,develop-
havingthehighestpriorityandlevel3havingthelowest. mentandcommercializationofmonoclonalantibodiesandvaccines
Thefairvalueofaderivativefinancialinstrument(i.e.forward forthetreatmentandpreventionofinfluenzaandotherinfectious
exchangecontract,currencyswap)istheaggregationbycurrencyof andnon-infectiousdiseases.Inaddition,theCompany,throughits
allfuturecashflowsdiscountedtoitspresentvalueattheprevailing affiliate,purchasedapproximately18%ofCrucell’soutstanding
marketinterestratesandsubsequentlyconvertedtotheU.S.dollarat ordinarysharesforanaggregatepurchasepriceof$448million.
thecurrentspotforeignexchangerate.TheCompanydoesnot Ofthetotalconsiderationpaid,$329millionrepresentsthefair
believethatfairvaluesofthesederivativeinstrumentsmateriallydif- valueoftheinvestmentbasedonCrucell’ssharepriceinanactively
ferfromtheamountsthatcouldberealizeduponsettlementormatu- tradedmarketasofthedateofthetransactionwiththeexcess
rity,orthatthechangesinfairvaluewillhaveamaterialeffectonthe recordedtoresearchanddevelopmentexpensein2009.
Company’sresultsofoperations,cashflowsorfinancialposition. TheCompanydidnothaveanyothersignificantfinancial
TheCompanyalsoholdsequityinvestmentswhichareclassi- assetsorliabilitieswhichwouldrequirerevisedvaluationsunder
fiedaslevel1sincetheyaretradedinanactiveexchangemarket. thisstandardthatarerecognizedatfairvalue.
TheCompany’ssignificantfinancialassetsandliabilitiesmeasuredatfairvalueasofJanuary3,2010andDecember28,2008wereasfollows:
Significant
Quotedpricesin other Significant
activemarketsfor observable unobservable
identicalassets inputs inputs 2009 2008
(DollarsinMillions) Level1 Level2 Level3 Total Total*
Derivativesdesignatedashedginginstruments:
Assets:
Foreignexchangecontracts $ — 436 — 436 1,238
Crosscurrencyinterestrateswaps — 126** — 126 110
Total — 562 — 562 1,348
Liabilities:
Foreignexchangecontracts — 608 — 608 1,298
Crosscurrencyinterestrateswaps — 571*** — 571 1,033
Total — 1,179 — 1,179 2,331
Derivativesnotdesignatedashedginginstruments:
Assets:
Foreignexchangecontracts — 33 — 33 84
Liabilities:
Foreignexchangecontracts — 40 — 40 47
Otherinvestments $1,134 — — 1,134 41
*2008assetsandliabilitiesareallclassifiedasLevel2withtheexceptionofotherinvestmentsof$41millionwhichareclassifiedasLevel1.
**Includes$119millionofnon-currentassets.
***Includes$517millionofnon-currentliabilities.
SeeNotes2and7forfinancialassetsandliabilitiesheldatcarryingamountontheConsolidatedBalanceSheet.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 457.Borrowings TheCompanyfiledashelfregistrationwiththeSecuritiesand
Thecomponentsoflong-termdebtareasfollows: ExchangeCommissionthatbecameeffectiveMarch11,2008which
enablestheCompanytoissueanunlimitedaggregateprincipal
Effective Effective amountindebtsecuritiesandwarrantstopurchasedebtsecurities.
(DollarsinMillions) 2009 Rate% 2008 Rate%
Aggregatematuritiesoflong-termobligationscommencingin
6.625%Notesdue2009 — — 199 6.80
2009are:
5.15%Debenturesdue2012 $ 599 5.18% 599 5.18
3.80%Debenturesdue2013 500 3.82 500 3.82 (DollarsinMillions) After
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014
5.55%Debenturesdue2017 1,000 5.55 1,000 5.55
$34 35 615 507 9 7,057
5.15%Debenturesdue2018 898 5.15 898 5.15
4.75%Notesdue2019
(1BEuro1.4382)(2)/(1BEuro1.4000)(3) 1,429(2)5.35 1,390(3)5.35 8.IncomeTaxes
3%ZeroCouponConvertible Theprovisionfortaxesonincomeconsistsof:
SubordinatedDebenturesdue2020 188 3.00 183 3.00
6.73%Debenturesdue2023 250 6.73 250 6.73 (DollarsinMillions) 2009 2008 2007
Currentlypayable:
5.50%Notesdue2024
(500MMGBP1.6189)(2)/ U.S.taxes $2,410 2,334 2,990
(500MMGBP1.4759)(3) 803(2)5.71 731(3)5.71 Internationaltaxes 1,515 1,624 1,479
6.95%Notesdue2029 294 7.14 294 7.14 3,925 3,958 4,469
4.95%Debenturedue2033 500 4.95 500 4.95 Deferred:
5.95%Notesdue2037 995 5.99 995 5.99 U.S.taxes 187 126 (722)
5.86%Debenturesdue2038 700 5.86 700 5.86 Internationaltaxes (623) (104) (1,040)
Other(IncludesIndustrial (436) 22 (1,762)
RevenueBonds) 101 102
$3,489 3,980 2,707
8,257(4)5.42(1) 8,341(4)5.46(1)
Lesscurrentportion 34 221
AcomparisonofincometaxexpenseattheU.S.statutoryrateof
$8,223 8,120 35%in2009,2008and2007,totheCompany’seffectivetaxrate
(1)Weightedaverageeffectiverate. isasfollows:
(2)TranslationrateatJanuary3,2010.
(3)TranslationrateatDecember28,2008. (DollarsinMillions) 2009 2008 2007
(4)Theexcessofthefairvalueoverthecarryingvalueofdebtwas$0.8billionin2009and U.S. $7,141 6,579 5,237
$1.4billionin2008.
International 8,614 10,350 8,046
Fairvalueofthenon-currentdebtwasestimatedusingmarket Earningsbeforetaxesonincome: $15,755 16,929 13,283
prices,whichwerecorroboratedbyquotedbrokerpricesin Taxrates:
activemarkets. U.S.statutoryrate 35.0% 35.0 35.0
TheCompanyhasaccesstosubstantialsourcesoffundsat
IrelandandPuertoRicooperations (5.1) (6.8) (8.8)
numerousbanksworldwide.InSeptember2009,theCompany
Researchandorphandrugtaxcredits (0.6) (0.6) (0.8)
securedanew364-dayCreditFacility.Totalcreditavailabletothe
U.S.stateandlocal 1.8 1.6 2.1
Companyapproximates$10billionwhichexpiresSeptember23,
InternationalsubsidiariesexcludingIreland (6.7) (5.6) (7.3)
2010.Interestchargedonborrowingsunderthecreditlineagree-
U.S.manufacturingdeduction (0.4) (0.4) (0.3)
mentsisbasedoneitherbidsprovidedbybanks,theprimerateor
LondonInterbankOfferedRates(LIBOR),plusapplicablemargins. In-processresearchand
development(IPR&D) 0.0 0.4 2.1
Commitmentfeesundertheagreementsarenotmaterial.
OnJuly28,2000,ALZACorporation,asubsidiaryofthe U.S.Taxinternationalincome (1.6) (0.5) (1.9)
Company,completedaprivateofferingofthe3%ZeroCoupon Allother (0.3) 0.4 0.3
ConvertibleSubordinatedDebentures,whichwereissuedata Effectivetaxrate 22.1% 23.5 20.4
priceof$551.26per$1,000principalamountatmaturity.Under
thetermsofthe3%Debentures,holdersareentitledtoconvert TheCompanyhassubsidiariesmanufacturinginIrelandunderan
theirdebenturesintoapproximately15.0millionsharesof incentivetaxrate.Inaddition,theCompanyhassubsidiariesoperat-
Johnson&Johnsonstockatapriceof$40.102pershare.Approxi- inginPuertoRicoundervarioustaxincentivegrants.Thedecrease
mately11.4millionshareshavebeenissuedasofJanuary3, inthe2009taxratewasprimarilyduetoincreasesintaxable
2010,duetovoluntaryconversionsbynoteholders.Attheoption incomeinlowertaxjurisdictionsrelativetotaxableincomeinhigher
oftheholder,the3%Debenturesmayberepurchasedbythe taxjurisdictions.Theincreaseinthe2008taxratewasmainly
CompanyonJuly28,2013,atapurchasepriceequaltotheissue attributedtoincreasesintaxableincomeinhighertaxjurisdictions
priceplusaccretedoriginalissuediscounttosuchpurchasedate. relativetotaxableincomeinlowerjurisdictions,aswellasabusi-
TheCompany,atitsoption,mayalsoredeemanyorallofthe3% nessrestructuringofcertaininternationalsubsidiariesin2007,
DebenturesafterJuly28,2003attheissuepriceplusaccreted resultinginaone-timebenefitof$267million,whichreducedthe
originalissuediscount. 2007effectivetaxrateby2%.
Throughout2009theCompanycontinuedtohaveaccessto
liquiditythroughthecommercialpapermarket.Short-termborrow-
ingsandthecurrentportionoflong-termdebtamountedtoapproxi-
mately$6.3billionattheendof2009,ofwhich$5.8billionwas
borrowedundertheCommercialPaperProgram.Theremainder
representsprincipallylocalborrowingbyinternationalsubsidiaries.
46 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTTemporarydifferencesandcarryforwardsfor2009and2008 TheCompanyclassifiesliabilitiesforunrecognizedtaxbenefits
areasfollows: andrelatedinterestandpenaltiesaslong-termliabilities.Interest
expenseandpenaltiesrelatedtounrecognizedtaxbenefitsareclas-
2009 2008
sifiedasincometaxexpense.DuringthefiscalyearendedJanuary3,
______D_e_fe_r_r_e_d_T_a_x_____ ______D_e_fe_r_r_e_d_T_a_x_____
2010,theCompanyrecognized$85millionofinterestexpenseand
(DollarsinMillions) Asset Liability Asset Liability
$30millionofinterestincomewithanafter-taximpactof$36mil-
Employeerelatedobligations $2,153 2,615
lionexpense.ForthefiscalyearendedDecember28,2008,the
Stockbasedcompensation 1,291 1,296
Companyrecognized$106millionofinterestexpensewithanafter-
Depreciation (661) (523)
taximpactof$69million.ForthefiscalyearendedDecember30,
Non-deductibleintangibles (2,377) (1,791)
2007,theCompanyrecognized$58millionofinterestexpenseand
InternationalR&Dcapitalized
$42millionofinterestincomewithanafter-taximpactof$10mil-
fortax 1,989 1,914
lionexpense.Thetotalamountofaccruedinterestwas$309million
Reserves&liabilities 1,014 688
and$227millionin2009and2008,respectively.
Incomereportedfor
taxpurposes 648 629
Netoperatingloss 9.EmployeeRelatedObligations
carryforwardinternational 615 393
Attheendof2009and2008,employeerelatedobligations
Miscellaneousinternational 1,474 (110) 964 (251) recordedontheConsolidatedBalanceSheetwere:
MiscellaneousU.S. 799 1,828
(DollarsinMillions) 2009 2008
Totaldeferredincometaxes $9,983 (3,148) 10,327 (2,565)
Pensionbenefits $2,792 4,382
Postretirementbenefits 2,245 2,217
Thedifferencebetweenthenetdeferredtaxonincomeperthe
Postemploymentbenefits 1,504 870
balancesheetandthenetdeferredtaxaboveisincludedintaxes
Deferredcompensation 790 772
onincomeonthebalancesheet.The2009and2008deferred
taxMiscellaneousU.S.includescurrentyeartaxreceivables.The Totalemployeeobligations 7,331 8,241
Companyhasawholly-ownedinternationalsubsidiarywhichhas Lesscurrentbenefitspayable 562 450
cumulativenetlosses.TheCompanybelievesthatitismorelikely Employeerelatedobligations—long-term $6,769 7,791
thannotthatthesubsidiarywillrealizefuturetaxableincome
sufficienttoutilizethesedeferredtaxassets. Prepaidemployeerelatedobligationsof$266millionand$136mil-
Thefollowingtablesummarizestheactivityrelatedto lionfor2009and2008,respectively,areincludedinotherassetson
unrecognizedtaxbenefits: theconsolidatedbalancesheet.
(DollarsinMillions) 2009 2008 2007
Beginningofyear $1,978 1,653 1,262 10.PensionsandOtherBenefitPlans
Increasesrelatedtocurrentyeartaxpositions 555 545 487 TheCompanysponsorsvariousretirementandpensionplans,
Increasesrelatedtopriorperiodtaxpositions 203 87 77 includingdefinedbenefit,definedcontributionandtermination
Decreasesrelatedtopriorperiodtaxpositions (163) (142) (117) indemnityplans,whichcovermostemployeesworldwide.The
Settlements (87) (137) (14) Companyalsoprovidespostretirementbenefits,primarilyhealth
Lapseofstatuteoflimitations (83) (28) (42) care,toallU.S.retiredemployeesandtheirdependents.
Endofyear $2,403 1,978 1,653 Manyinternationalemployeesarecoveredbygovernment-
sponsoredprogramsandthecosttotheCompanyisnotsignificant.
Retirementplanbenefitsareprimarilybasedontheemployee’s
TheCompanyhad$2.4billionand$2.0billionofunrecognizedtax
compensationduringthelastthreetofiveyearsbeforeretirement
benefits,asofJanuary3,2010andDecember28,2008,respec-
andthenumberofyearsofservice.Internationalsubsidiarieshave
tively.Alloftheunrecognizedtaxbenefitsof$2.4billionatJanuary
plansunderwhichfundsaredepositedwithtrustees,annuitiesare
3,2010,ifrecognized,wouldaffecttheCompany’sannualeffective
purchasedundergroupcontracts,orreservesareprovided.
taxrate.TheCompanyconductsbusinessandfilestaxreturnsin
TheCompanydoesnotfundretireehealthcarebenefitsin
numerouscountriesandcurrentlyhastaxauditsinprogresswitha
advanceandhastherighttomodifytheseplansinthefuture.
numberoftaxauthorities.TheU.S.InternalRevenueService(IRS)
TheCompanyusesthedateofitsconsolidatedfinancialstate-
hascompleteditsauditforthetaxyearsthrough2002.Inother
ments(January3,2010andDecember28,2008,respectively)as
majorjurisdictionswheretheCompanyconductsbusiness,theyears
themeasurementdateforallU.S.andinternationalretirementand
remainopengenerallybacktotheyear2002withsomejurisdictions
otherbenefitplans.
remainingopenasfarbackas1995.TheCompanydoesnotexpect
InaccordancewithU.S.GAAPtheCompanyhasadopted
thatthetotalamountofunrecognizedtaxbenefitswillsignificantly
therecentstandardsrelatedtoemployers’accountingfordefined
changeoverthenexttwelvemonths.TheCompanybelievesthatitis
benefitpensionandotherpostretirementplans.
possiblethatwithinthenexttwelvemonths,theIRSmaycomplete
itsauditofthetaxyears2003–2005.Thecloseoftheauditmay
resultinthereductionofunrecognizedtaxbenefits.TheCompanyis
notabletoprovideareasonablyreliableestimateofthetimingof
anyotherfuturetaxpaymentsrelatingtouncertaintaxpositions.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 47NetperiodicbenefitcostsfortheCompany’sdefinedbenefitretirementplansandotherbenefitplansfor2009,2008and2007
includethefollowingcomponents:
____________R_e_t_ir_e_m_e_n_t_P_la_n_s____________ ___________O_t_h_e_r_B_e_n_e_fi_t_P_la_n_s___________
(DollarsinMillions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007
Servicecost $511 545 597 $137 142 140
Interestcost 746 701 656 174 166 149
Expectedreturnonplanassets (934) (876) (809) (1) (2) (2)
Amortizationofpriorservicecost 13 10 10 (5) (4) (7)
Amortizationofnettransitionasset 1 2 1 — — —
Recognizedactuariallosses 155 62 186 55 64 66
Curtailmentsandsettlements (11) 7 5 (1) — —
Netperiodicbenefitcost $481 451 646 $359 366 346
ThenetperiodicbenefitcostattributabletoU.S.retirementplanswas$286million,$220millionand$379millionin2009,2008and
2007,respectively.
Amountsexpectedtoberecognizedinnetperiodicbenefitcost lifeexpectancy.Theamortizationofgainsandlossesfortheother
inthecomingyearfortheCompany’sdefinedbenefitretirement U.S.benefitplansisdeterminedbyusinga10%corridorofthe
plansandotherpostretirementplans: greaterofthemarketvalueofassetsortheprojectedbenefitobliga-
tion.Totalunamortizedgainsandlossesinexcessofthecorridorare
(DollarsinMillions)
amortizedovertheaverageremainingfutureservice.
Amortizationofnettransitionobligation $ 1
Priorservicecosts/benefitsfortheU.S.pensionplansare
Amortizationofnetactuariallosses 296
amortizedovertheremainingfutureserviceofplanparticipantsat
Amortizationofpriorservicecost 5 thetimeoftheplanamendment.Priorservicecost/benefitforthe
otherU.S.benefitplansisamortizedovertheaverageremaining
UnrecognizedgainsandlossesfortheU.S.pensionplansareamor- servicetofulleligibilityageofplanparticipantsatthetimeofthe
tizedovertheaverageremainingfutureserviceforeachplan.For planamendment.
planswithnoactiveemployees,theyareamortizedovertheaverage
Theweighted-averageassumptionsinthefollowingtablerepresenttheratesusedtodeveloptheactuarialpresentvalueofprojected
benefitobligationfortheyearlistedandalsothenetperiodicbenefitcostforthefollowingyear.
____________R_e_t_ir_e_m_e_n_t_P_la_n_s____________ ___________O_t_h_e_r_B_e_n_e_fi_t_P_la_n_s___________
(DollarsinMillions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007
U.S.BenefitPlans
Discountrate 6.50% 6.50 6.50 6.50% 6.50 6.50
Expectedlong-termrateofreturnonplanassets 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
Rateofincreaseincompensationlevels 4.50 4.50 4.50 4.50 4.50 4.50
InternationalBenefitPlans
Discountrate 5.75% 6.00 5.50 6.75% 7.25 6.50
Expectedlong-termrateofreturnonplanassets 8.00 8.00 8.25 — — —
Rateofincreaseincompensationlevels 4.00 4.00 4.00 4.75 4.50 4.50
TheCompany’sdiscountratesaredeterminedbyconsidering Thefollowingtabledisplaystheassumedhealthcarecosttrend
currentyieldcurvesrepresentinghighquality,long-termfixed rates,forallindividuals:
incomeinstruments.Theresultingdiscountratesareconsistent
HealthCarePlans 2009 2008
withthedurationofplanliabilities.
Healthcarecosttrendrateassumedfornextyear 8.00% 9.00
Theexpectedlong-termrateofreturnonplanassetsassump-
Ratetowhichthecosttrendrateisassumed
tionisdeterminedusingabuildingblockapproach,considering
todecline(ultimatetrend) 5.00% 5.00
historicalaveragesandrealreturnsofeachassetclass.Incertain
Yeartheratereachestheultimatetrendrate 2017 2015
countries,wherehistoricalreturnsarenotmeaningful,considera-
tionisgiventolocalmarketexpectationsoflong-termreturns.
Aone-percentage-pointchangeinassumedhealthcarecosttrend
rateswouldhavethefollowingeffect:
One-Percentage- One-Percentage-
(DollarsinMillions) PointIncrease PointDecrease
HealthCarePlans
Totalinterestandservicecost $34 $(28)
Postretirementbenefitobligation 315 (254)
48 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTThefollowingtablesetsforthinformationrelatedtothebenefitobligationandthefairvalueofplanassetsatyear-end2009and2008for
theCompany’sdefinedbenefitretirementplansandotherpostretirementplans:
_____R_e_t_i_re_m__en_t_P_l_a_n_s_____ ____O__th_e_r_B_e_n_e_f_it_P_l_a_n_s____
(DollarsinMillions) 2009 2008 2009 2008
ChangeinBenefitObligation
Projectedbenefitobligation—beginningofyear $11,923 12,002 $2,765 2,721
Servicecost 511 545 137 142
Interestcost 746 701 174 166
Planparticipantcontributions 50 60 — —
Amendments 3 10 — 1
Actuariallosses(gains) 412 (318) 51 (124)
Divestitures&acquisitions 15 — 13 (2)
Curtailments&settlements&restructuring (3) (2) 748 —
Benefitspaidfromplan (570) (535) (313) (122)
Effectofexchangerates 362 (540) 15 (17)
Projectedbenefitobligation—endofyear* $13,449 11,923 $3,590 2,765
ChangeinPlanAssets
Planassetsatfairvalue—beginningofyear $7,677 10,469 $ 17 29
Actualreturn(loss)onplanassets 2,048 (2,787) 4 (7)
Companycontributions 1,354 978 308 117
Planparticipantcontributions 50 60 — —
Settlements — (1) — —
Benefitspaidfromplanassets (570) (535) (313) (122)
Effectofexchangerates 364 (507) — —
Planassetsatfairvalue—endofyear $10,923 7,677 $ 16 17
Fundedstatusat—endofyear* $(2,526) (4,246) $(3,574) (2,748)
AmountsRecognizedintheCompany’sBalanceSheetconsistofthefollowing:
Non-currentassets $ 266 136 $ — —
Currentliabilities (53) (45) (484) (212)
Non-currentliabilities (2,739) (4,337) (3,090) (2,536)
Totalrecognizedintheconsolidatedbalancesheet—endofyear $(2,526) (4,246) $(3,574) (2,748)
AmountsRecognizedinAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeconsistofthefollowing:
Netactuarialloss $ 3,415 4,209 $ 924 1,006
Priorservicecost(credit) 47 43 (23) (29)
Unrecognizednettransitionobligation 5 6 — —
Totalbeforetaxeffects $ 3,467 4,258 $ 901 977
AccumulatedBenefitObligations—endofyear* $11,687 10,357
ChangesinPlanAssetsandBenefitObligationsRecognizedinOtherComprehensiveIncome
Netperiodicbenefitcost $ 481 451 $ 359 366
Netactuarial(gain)loss (704) 3,344 48 60
Amortizationofnetactuarialloss (134) (68) (131) (65)
Priorservicecost 3 10 — 1
Amortizationofpriorservicecost (13) (11) 5 6
Effectofexchangerates 57 (102) 2 (1)
Totalrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome,beforetax $ (791) 3,173 $ (76) 1
Totalrecognizedinnetperiodicbenefitcostandothercomprehensiveincome $ (310) 3,624 $ 283 367
*TheCompanydoesnotfundcertainplans,asfundingisnotrequired.$1.2billionoftheprojected
benefitobligationand$1.2billionoftheunderfundedstatusforeachofthefiscalyears2009and
2008relatestotheunfundedpensionplans.$1.0billionand$0.9billionoftheaccumulatedbenefit
obligationforthefiscalyears2009and2008,respectively,relatetotheseunfundedpensionplans.
Planswithaccumulatedbenefitobligationsinexcessofplanassetsconsistofthefollowing:
_____R_e_t_ir_e_m__en_t__P_la_n_s_____
(DollarsinMillions) 2009 2008
Accumulatedbenefitobligation $(4,065) (9,885)
Projectedbenefitobligation (4,663) (11,379)
Planassetsatfairvalue 2,564 7,021
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49ThefollowingtabledisplaystheprojectedfuturebenefitpaymentsfromtheCompany’sretirementandotherbenefitplans:
(DollarsinMillions) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015-2019
Projectedfuturebenefitpayments
Retirementplans $558 553 582 604 636 3,925
Otherbenefitplans—gross $209 198 196 198 197 995
Medicarerebates (9) — — — — —
Otherbenefitplans—net $200 198 196 198 197 995
In2009,theCompanycontributed$839millionand$515million TheCompanyplanstocontinuetofunditsU.S.definedbenefit
toitsU.S.andinternationalpensionplans,respectively.Inaddition, planstocomplywiththeAct.
theCompanyfunded$500milliontoitsU.S.plansinthefirstmonth Internationalplansarefundedinaccordancewithlocal
of2010. regulations.Additionaldiscretionarycontributionsaremadewhen
In2006,CongresspassedthePensionProtectionActof2006. deemedappropriatetomeetthelong-termobligationsoftheplans.
TheActamendedtheEmployeeRetirementIncomeSecurityAct Forcertainplans,fundingisnotacommonpractice,asfunding
(ERISA)forplanyearsbeginningafter2007andestablishednew providesnoeconomicbenefit.ConsequentlytheCompanyhas
minimumfundingstandardsforU.S.employerdefinedbenefitplans. severalpensionplansthatarenotfunded.
ThefollowingtabledisplaystheprojectedfutureminimumcontributionstotheCompany’sU.S.andinternationalunfundedretirement
plans.TheseamountsdonotincludeanydiscretionarycontributionsthattheCompanymayelecttomakeinthefuture.
(DollarsinMillions) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015-2019
Projectedfuturecontributions
UnfundedU.S.retirementplans $34 36 38 40 44 288
UnfundedInternationalretirementplans $32 29 31 33 32 186
Eachpensionplanisoverseenbyalocalcommitteeorboardthatisresponsiblefortheoveralladministrationandinvestmentofthepension
plans.Indetermininginvestmentpolicies,strategiesandgoals,eachcommitteeorboardconsidersfactorsincludinglocalpensionrulesand
regulations;localtaxregulations;availabilityofinvestmentvehicles(separateaccounts,commingledaccounts,insurancefunds,etc.);
fundedstatusoftheplans;ratioofactivestoretirees;durationofliabilities;andotherrelevantfactorsincludingdiversification,liquidityof
localmarketsandliquidityofbasecurrency.AmajorityoftheCompany’spensionfundsareopentonewentrantsandareexpectedtobe
on-goingplans.Permittedinvestmentsareprimarilyliquidand/orlisted,withlittlerelianceonilliquidandnon-traditionalinvestmentssuch
ashedgefunds.Anassetallocationof75%equitiesand25%fixedincomeisgenerallypursuedunlesslocalregulationsandilliquidity
requireotherwise.
TheCompany’sretirementplanassetallocationattheendof2009and2008andtargetallocationsfor2010areasfollows:
Percentof Target
________P_la_n_A__ss_e_t_s_______ Allocation
2009 2008 2010
U.S.RetirementPlans
Equitysecurities 76% 70% 75%
Debtsecurities 24 30 25
Totalplanassets 100% 100% 100%
InternationalRetirementPlans
Equitysecurities 65% 61% 65%
Debtsecurities 34 38 34
Realestateandother 1 1 1
Totalplanassets 100% 100% 100%
TheCompany’sotherbenefitplansareunfundedexceptforU.S.life DETERMINATIONOFFAIRVALUE
insurancecontractassetsof$16millionand$17millionatJanuary3, ThePlanhasanestablishedandwell-documentedprocessfor
2010andDecember28,2008,respectively. determiningfairvalues.Fairvalueisbaseduponquotedmarket
ThefairvalueofJohnson&Johnsoncommonstockdirectly prices,whereavailable.Iflistedpricesorquotesarenotavailable,
heldinplanassetswas$469million(4.3%oftotalplanassets)at fairvalueisbaseduponmodelsthatprimarilyuse,asinputs,
January3,2010and$416million(5.4%oftotalplanassets)at market-basedorindependentlysourcedmarketparameters,
December28,2008. includingyieldcurves,interestrates,volatilities,equityordebt
prices,foreignexchangeratesandcreditcurves.
WhilethePlanbelievesitsvaluationmethodsareappropriate
andconsistentwithothermarketparticipants,theuseofdifferent
methodologiesorassumptionstodeterminethefairvalueofcertain
financialinstrumentscouldresultinadifferentestimateoffairvalue
atthereportingdate.
50 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTVALUATIONHIERARCHY Ifquotedmarketpricesarenotavailableforthespecificsecurity,
Theauthoritativeliteratureestablishesathree-levelhierarchytopri- thenfairvaluesareestimatedbyusingpricingmodels,quoted
oritizetheinputsusedinmeasuringfairvalue.Thelevelswithinthe pricesofsecuritieswithsimilarcharacteristicsordiscountedcash
hierarchyaredescribedinthetablebelowwithLevel1havingthe flowsandareclassifiedasLevel2.Level3debtinstrumentsare
highestpriorityandLevel3havingthelowest. pricedbasedonunobservableinputs.
Afinancialinstrument’scategorizationwithinthevaluationhierar- • Equitysecurities—Commonstocksarevaluedattheclosing
chyisbaseduponthelowestlevelofinputthatissignificanttothe pricereportedonthemajormarketonwhichtheindividualsecuri-
fairvaluemeasurement. tiesaretraded.Substantiallyallcommonstockisclassifiedwithin
Followingisadescriptionofthevaluationmethodologiesused Level1ofthevaluationhierarchy.
fortheinvestmentsmeasuredatfairvalue. • Commingledfunds—Theinvestmentsarepublicinvestment
• Short-terminvestments—Cashandquotedshort-terminstru- vehiclesvaluedusingtheNAVprovidedbythefundadministrator.
mentsarevaluedattheclosingpriceortheamountheldondeposit TheNAVisbasedonthevalueoftheunderlyingassetsownedby
bythecustodianbank.Otherinvestmentsarethroughinvestment thefund,minusitsliabilities,andthendividedbythenumberof
vehiclesvaluedusingtheNetAssetValue(NAV)providedbythe sharesoutstanding.AssetsintheLevel2categoryhaveaquoted
administratorofthefund.TheNAVisbasedonthevalueofthe marketpriceinamarketthatisnotactive.
underlyingassetsownedbythefund,minusitsliabilities,andthen • Insurancecontracts—Theinstrumentsareissuedbyinsurance
dividedbythenumberofsharesoutstanding.TheNAVisaquoted companies.Thefairvalueisbasedonnegotiatedvalueandthe
priceinamarketthatisnotactiveandclassifiedasLevel2. underlyinginvestmentsheldinseparateaccountportfoliosaswell
• Governmentandagencysecurities—Alimitednumberofthese asconsideringthecreditworthinessoftheissuer.Theunderlying
investmentsarevaluedattheclosingpricereportedonthemajor investmentsaregovernment,asset-backedandfixedincome
marketonwhichtheindividualsecuritiesaretraded.Wherequoted securities.Ingeneral,insurancecontractsareclassifiedasLevel3as
pricesareavailableinanactivemarket,theinvestmentsareclassified therearenoquotedpricesnorotherobservableinputsforpricing.
withinLevel1ofthevaluationhierarchy.Ifquotedmarketpricesare • Otherassets—Otherassetsarerepresentedprimarilybylimited
notavailableforthespecificsecurity,thenfairvaluesareestimated partnershipsandrealestateinvestments,aswellascommercial
byusingpricingmodels,quotedpricesofsecuritieswithsimilar loansandcommercialmortgagesthatarenotclassifiedascorporate
characteristicsordiscountedcashflows.Whenquotedmarketprices debt.Otherassetsthatareexchangelistedandactivelytradedare
forasecurityarenotavailableinanactivemarket,theyareclassified classifiedasLevel1whileinactivelytradedassetsareclassifiedas
asLevel2. Level2.Mostlimitedpartnershipsrepresentinvestmentsinprivate
• Debtinstruments—Alimitednumberoftheseinvestmentsare equityandsimilarfundsthatarevaluedbythegeneralpartners.
valuedattheclosingpricereportedonthemajormarketonwhich These,aswellasanyotherassetsvaluedusingunobservableinputs,
theindividualsecuritiesaretraded.Wherequotedpricesareavail- areclassifiedasLevel3.
ableinanactivemarket,theinvestmentsareclassifiedasLevel1.
ThefollowingtablesetsforththetrustinvestmentsmeasuredatfairvalueasofJanuary3,2010:
QuotedPrices Significant
inActive Other Significant
Marketsfor Observable Unobservable
IdenticalAssets Inputs Inputs
(DollarsinMillions) (Level1) (Level2) (Level3) TotalAssets
Short-terminvestmentfunds $ 91 358 — 449
Governmentandagencysecurities — 1,165 — 1,165
Debtinstruments 3 1,145 5 1,153
Equitysecurities 5,068 58 15 5,141
Commingledfunds — 2,673 26 2,699
Insurancecontracts — — 32 32
Otherassets 31 171 82 284
Trustinvestmentsatfairvalue $5,193 5,570 160 10,923
LEVEL3GAINSANDLOSSES
ThetablebelowsetsforthasummaryofchangesinthefairvalueofthePlan’sLevel3assetsfortheyearendedJanuary3,2010:
Debt Equity Commingled Insurance Other Total
(DollarsinMillions) Instruments Securities Funds Contracts Assets Level3
BalanceDecember28,2008 $7 15 15 29 85 151
Realizedgains(losses) — — — 3 — 3
Unrealizedgains(losses) 2 (2) (2) — (3) (5)
Purchases,sales,issuancesandsettlements,net (4) 2 13 — — 11
BalanceJanuary3,2010 $5 15 26 32 82 160
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5111.SavingsPlan 13.AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome
TheCompanyhasvoluntary401(k)savingsplansdesignedto Componentsofothercomprehensiveincome/(loss)consistof
enhancetheexistingretirementprogramscoveringeligibleemploy- thefollowing:
ees.TheCompanymatchesapercentageofeachemployee’scontri-
Total
butionsconsistentwiththeprovisionsoftheplanforwhichhe/she
Gains/ Accumulated
iseligible.TotalCompanymatchingcontributionstotheplanswere Foreign Gains/ (Losses)on Other
$163million,$166millionand$169millionin2009,2008and2007, Currency (Losses)on Employee Derivatives Comprehensive
(DollarsinMillions) Translation Securities BenefitPlans &Hedges Income/(Loss)
respectively.
December31,2006 $ (158) 61 (2,030) 9 (2,118)
2007changes
12.CapitalandTreasuryStock Unrealizedgain(loss) — 28 — (78)
Changesintreasurystockwere: Netamountreclassed
tonetearnings — (5) — 24
(AmountsinMillionsExceptTreasuryStock ______T_r_e_a_su_r_y_S_t_o_c_k______ Net2007changes 786 23 670 (54) 1,425
NumberofSharesinThousands) Shares Amount
December30,2007 $ 628 84 (1,360) (45) (693)
BalanceatDecember31,2006 226,612 $10,974
2008changes
Employeecompensationandstockoptionplans (33,296) (2,180)
Unrealizedgain(loss) — (32) — 94
Conversionofsubordinateddebentures (194) (13)
Netamountreclassed
Repurchaseofcommonstock 86,498 5,607
tonetearnings — (27) — 72
BalanceatDecember30,2007 279,620 14,388
Net2008changes (2,499) (59) (1,870) 166 (4,262)
Employeecompensationandstockoptionplans (29,906) (2,005)
December28,2008 $(1,871) 25 (3,230) 121 (4,955)
Conversionofsubordinateddebentures (19) (1)
2009changes
Repurchaseofcommonstock 100,970 6,651
Unrealizedgain(loss) — (52) — 38
BalanceatDecember28,2008 350,665 19,033
Netamountreclassed
Employeecompensationandstockoptionplans (22,161) (1,377)
tonetearnings — (3) — (14)
Conversionofsubordinateddebentures (96) (6)
Net2009changes 1,363 (55) 565 24 1,897
Repurchaseofcommonstock 37,114 2,130
January3,2010 $ (508) (30) (2,665) 145 (3,058)
BalanceatJanuary3,2010 365,522 $19,780
Thetaxeffectontheunrealizedgains/(losses)ontheequitysecuri-
AggregatesharesofCommonStockissuedwereapproximately
tieswasincomeof$14millionin2009andexpenseof$14million
3,120millionsharesattheendof2009,2008and2007.
and$46millionin2008and2007,respectively.Thetaxeffect
Cashdividendspaidwere$1.930persharein2009,compared
relatedtoemployeebenefitplanswas$302million,$1,090million
withdividendsof$1.795persharein2008and$1.620pershare
and$349millionin2009,2008and2007,respectively.Thetax
in2007.
effectonthegains/(losses)onderivativesandhedgeswasexpense
of$78millionand$70millionin2009and2008,respectively,and
incomeof$24millionin2007.SeeNote6foradditionalinformation
relatingtoderivativesandhedging.
Thecurrencytranslationadjustmentsarenotadjustedfor
incometaxesastheyrelatetopermanentinvestmentsin
internationalsubsidiaries.
52 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORT14.InternationalCurrencyTranslation 16.RentalExpenseandLeaseCommitments
Fortranslationofitssubsidiariesoperatinginnon-U.S.Dollarcur- Rentalsofspace,vehicles,manufacturingequipmentandofficeand
rencies,theCompanyhasdeterminedthatthelocalcurrenciesof dataprocessingequipmentunderoperatingleaseswereapproxi-
itsinternationalsubsidiariesarethefunctionalcurrenciesexcept mately$322millionin2009,$309millionin2008and$302million
thoseinhighlyinflationaryeconomies,whicharedefinedasthose in2007.
whichhavehadcompoundcumulativeratesofinflationof100% Theapproximateminimumrentalpaymentsrequiredunder
ormoreduringthepastthreeyears,orwhereasubstantialportion operatingleasesthathaveinitialorremainingnon-cancelablelease
ofitscashflowsarenotinthelocalcurrency. termsinexcessofoneyearatJanuary3,2010are:
Inconsolidatinginternationalsubsidiaries,balancesheetcur-
(DollarsinMillions) After
rencyeffectsarerecordedasacomponentofaccumulatedother
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 Total
comprehensiveincome.Thisequityaccountincludestheresults
$178 150 128 103 87 94 740
oftranslatingallbalancesheetassetsandliabilitiesatcurrent
exchangerates,exceptforthoselocatedinhighlyinflationary Commitmentsundercapitalleasesarenotsignificant.
economies.Thetranslationofbalancesheetaccountsforhighly
inflationaryeconomiesarereflectedintheoperatingresults.
Ananalysisofthechangesduring2009,2008and2007for 17.CommonStock,StockOptionPlansandStock
foreigncurrencytranslationadjustmentsisincludedinNote13. CompensationAgreements
Netcurrencytransactionandtranslationgainsandlosses STOCKOPTIONS
includedinother(income)expensewerelossesof$210million, AtJanuary3,2010,theCompanyhad11stock-basedcompen-
$31millionand$23millionin2009,2008and2007,respectively. sationplans.Thesharesoutstandingareforcontractsunderthe
Company’s1995and2000StockOptionPlans,the2005Long-
TermIncentivePlan,the1997Non-EmployeeDirector’sPlanand
15.EarningsPerShare
theALZA,Inverness,andSciosStockOptionPlans.During2009,
Thefollowingisareconciliationofbasicnetearningspershareto nooptionsorrestrictedsharesweregrantedunderanyofthese
dilutednetearningspershareforthefiscalyearsendedJanuary3, plansexceptunderthe2005Long-TermIncentivePlan.
2010,December28,2008andDecember30,2007: Thecompensationcostthathasbeenchargedagainstincome
fortheseplanswas$628million,$627millionand$698millionfor
(SharesinMillionsExceptPerShareData) 2009 2008 2007
2009,2008and2007,respectively.Thetotalincometaxbenefit
Basicnetearningspershare $ 4.45 4.62 3.67
recognizedintheincomestatementforshare-basedcompensation
Averageshares
costswas$210million,$210millionand$238millionfor2009,
outstanding—basic 2,759.5 2,802.5 2,882.9
2008and2007,respectively.Share-basedcompensationcosts
Potentialsharesexercisable
capitalizedaspartofinventorywereinsignificantinallperiods.
understockoptionplans 118.0 179.0 178.6
Stockoptionsexpire10yearsfromthedateofgrantandvest
Less:sharesrepurchased
overserviceperiodsthatrangefromsixmonthstofiveyears.All
undertreasurystockmethod (92.0) (149.6) (154.5)
optionsaregrantedattheaverageofthehighandlowpricesofthe
Convertibledebtshares 3.6 3.7 3.7
Company’scommonstockontheNewYorkStockExchangeon
Adjustedaverageshares
thedateofgrant.Underthe2005Long-TermIncentivePlan,the
outstanding—diluted 2,789.1 2,835.6 2,910.7
Companymayissueupto260millionsharesofcommonstock.
Dilutednetearningspershare $ 4.40 4.57 3.63
Sharesavailableforfuturegrantsunderthe2005Long-Term
IncentivePlanwere139.7millionattheendof2009.
Thedilutednetearningspersharecalculationincludesthedilutive
TheCompanysettlesemployeestockoptionexerciseswith
effectofconvertibledebtthatisoffsetbytherelatedreduction
treasuryshares.Treasurysharesarereplenishedthroughoutthe
ininterestexpenseof$4millionafter-taxforyears2009,2008
yearforthenumberofsharesusedtosettleemployeestock
and2007.
optionexercises.
Dilutednetearningspershareexcludes121million,59million
Thefairvalueofeachoptionawardwasestimatedonthedate
and64millionsharesunderlyingstockoptionsfor2009,2008and
ofgrantusingtheBlack-Scholesoptionvaluationmodelthatuses
2007,respectively,astheexercisepriceoftheseoptionswas
theassumptionsnotedinthefollowingtable.Expectedvolatility
greaterthantheiraveragemarketvalue,whichwouldresultinan
representsablendedrateof4-yeardailyhistoricalaveragevolatility
anti-dilutiveeffectondilutedearningspershare.
rate,anda5-weekaverageimpliedvolatilityratebasedonat-the-
moneytradedJohnson&Johnsonoptionswithalifeof2years.
Historicaldataisusedtodeterminetheexpectedlifeoftheoption.
Therisk-freeratewasbasedontheU.S.Treasuryyieldcurvein
effectatthetimeofgrant.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53Theaveragefairvalueofoptionsgrantedwas$8.35,$7.66,and StockoptionsexercisableatDecember28,2008andDecember30,
$11.67in2009,2008,and2007,respectively.Thefairvaluewas 2007were144,962atanaveragepriceof$56.25andanaverage
estimatedbasedontheweightedaverageassumptionsof: lifeof5.3yearsand137,310atanaveragepriceof$52.33andan
averagelifeof5.6years,respectively.
2009 2008 2007
Risk-freerate 2.71% 2.97% 4.78%
RESTRICTEDSHAREUNITS
Expectedvolatility 19.5% 15.0% 14.7%
TheCompanygrantsrestrictedshareunitswithavestingperiod
Expectedlife 6.0yrs 6.0yrs 6.0yrs ofthreeyears.TheCompanysettlesemployeestockissuancewith
Dividendyield 3.30% 2.90% 2.50% treasuryshares.Treasurysharesarereplenishedthroughoutthe
yearforthenumberofsharesusedforemployeestockissuances.
AsummaryofoptionactivityunderthePlanasofJanuary3,2010, AsummaryofshareactivityunderthePlanasofJanuary3,2010:
December28,2008,andDecember30,2007andchangesduring
theyearsendingonthosedatesispresentedbelow: Outstanding
(SharesinThousands) Shares
Aggregate SharesatDecember31,2006 6,885
Weighted Intrinsic Sharesgranted 8,029
Outstanding Average Value
(SharesinThousands) Shares ExercisePrice (DollarsinMillions) Sharesissued (33)
SharesatDecember31,2006 242,927 $54.57 $2,788 Sharescanceled/forfeited (1,220)
Optionsgranted 26,789 65.61 SharesatDecember30,2007 13,661
Optionsexercised (33,224) 45.92 Sharesgranted 10,105
Optionscanceled/forfeited (7,863) 63.00 Sharesissued (40)
SharesatDecember30,2007 228,629 56.83 $2,411 Sharescanceled/forfeited (1,468)
SharesatDecember28,2008 22,258
Optionsgranted 22,428 61.80
Sharesgranted 11,172
Optionsexercised (30,033) 50.27
Sharesissued (5,714)
Optionscanceled/forfeited (5,525) 61.90
Sharescanceled/forfeited (1,392)
SharesatDecember28,2008 215,499 58.14 $ 597
SharesatJanuary3,2010 26,324
Optionsgranted 21,576 58.32
Optionsexercised (18,225) 50.97
Theaveragefairvalueoftherestrictedshareunitsgrantedwas
Optionscanceled/forfeited (6,131) 61.85
$52.79,$56.70and$60.86in2009,2008and2007,respectively,
SharesatJanuary3,2010 212,719 $58.66 $1,310 usingthefairmarketvalueatthedateofgrant.Thefairvalueof
restrictedshareunitswasdiscountedfordividends,whicharenot
Thetotalintrinsicvalueofoptionsexercisedwas$184million,$506 paidontherestrictedshareunitsduringthevestingperiod.Thefair
million,and$625millionin2009,2008and2007,respectively.The valueofrestrictedshareunitssettledwas$308.4million,$2.5mil-
totalunrecognizedcompensationcostwas$612millionasofJanu- lionand$1.8millionin2009,2008and2007,respectively.
ary3,2010,$632millionasofDecember28,2008and$652mil-
lionasofDecember30,2007.Theweightedaverageperiodforthis
costtoberecognizedwas1.16years,1.06yearsand1.01yearsfor
2009,2008,and2007,respectively.
Thefollowingtablesummarizesstockoptionsoutstandingand
exercisableatJanuary3,2010:
(_S_h_a_r_es__in_T__h_ou_s_a_n_d_s_)____________________O_u_t_st_a_n_d_in_g__________ _____E_x_e_r_c_is_a_b_le_____
Average Average
Exercise Average Exercise Exercise
PriceRange Options Life(1) Price Options Price
$7.33-$28.09 104 1.5 $22.89 104 $22.89
$31.27-$40.08 131 0.3 35.83 131 35.83
$41.26-$49.86 1,024 1.2 47.09 1,024 47.09
$50.52-$52.11 17,328 0.8 50.70 17,328 50.70
$52.13-$53.77 22,193 3.1 52.22 22,152 52.22
$53.93-$54.89 26,155 4.0 53.93 26,156 53.93
$55.01-$58.25 26,332 2.1 57.30 26,328 57.30
$58.33-$65.10 63,805 7.7 59.48 21,367 58.48
$65.62-$68.37 55,647 5.8 65.97 33,759 66.19
212,719 5.0 $58.66 148,349 $57.26
(1)Averagecontractualliferemaininginyears.
54 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORT18.SegmentsofBusiness(1)andGeographicAreas
__________S_a_l_e_s_to__C_u_s_to_m__e_rs_(2_)__________
(DollarsinMillions) 2009 2008 2007
Consumer—
UnitedStates $6,837 6,937 6,408
International 8,966 9,117 8,085
Total 15,803 16,054 14,493
Pharmaceutical—
UnitedStates 13,041 14,831 15,603
International 9,479 9,736 9,263
Total 22,520 24,567 24,866
MedicalDevicesandDiagnostics—
UnitedStates 11,011 10,541 10,433
International 12,563 12,585 11,303
Total 23,574 23,126 21,736
Worldwidetotal $61,897 63,747 61,095
____________O_p_e_r_a_t_in_g_P_r_o_f_it____________ ___________I_d_e_n_ti_fi_a_b_le__A_s_se_t_s___________
(DollarsinMillions) 2009(5) 2008(6) 2007(7) 2009 2008 2007
Consumer $2,475 2,674 2,277 $24,671 23,765 26,550
Pharmaceutical 6,413 7,605 6,540 21,460 19,544 19,780
MedicalDevicesandDiagnostics 7,694 7,223 4,846 22,853 20,779 19,978
Total 16,582 17,502 13,663 68,984 64,088 66,308
Less:Expensenotallocatedtosegments(3) 827 573 380
Generalcorporate(4) 25,698 20,824 14,646
Worldwidetotal $15,755 16,929 13,283 $94,682 84,912 80,954
AdditionstoProperty, Depreciationand
___________P_l_a_n_t_&_E_q_u_i_p_m_e_n_t___________ _____________A__m_o_r_ti_z_at_i_o_n_____________
(DollarsinMillions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007
Consumer $ 439 499 504 $513 489 472
Pharmaceutical 535 920 1,137 922 986 1,033
MedicalDevicesandDiagnostics 1,114 1,251 919 1,124 1,146 1,080
Segmentstotal 2,088 2,670 2,560 2,559 2,621 2,585
Generalcorporate 277 396 382 215 211 192
Worldwidetotal $2,365 3,066 2,942 $2,774 2,832 2,777
__________S_a_l_e_s_to__C_u_s_to_m__e_rs_(2_)__________ ___________Lo_n_g_-_L_iv_e_d_A__ss_e_t_s_(8_)__________
(DollarsinMillions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007
UnitedStates $30,889 32,309 32,444 $22,399 21,674 21,685
Europe 15,934 16,782 15,644 17,347 14,375 15,578
WesternHemisphereexcludingU.S. 5,156 5,173 4,681 3,540 3,328 3,722
Asia-Pacific,Africa 9,918 9,483 8,326 1,868 1,898 1,261
Segmentstotal 61,897 63,747 61,095 45,154 41,275 42,246
Generalcorporate 790 785 702
Othernonlong-livedassets 48,738 42,852 38,006
Worldwidetotal $61,897 63,747 61,095 $94,682 84,912 80,954
(1)SeeNote1foradescriptionofthesegmentsinwhichtheCompanyoperates.
(2)Exportsalesarenotsignificant.In2009,2008and2007,theCompanydidnothaveacustomerthatrepresented10%oftotalrevenues.
(3)Amountsnotallocatedtosegmentsincludeinterest(income)expense,non-controllinginterestsandgeneralcorporate(income)expense.
(4)Generalcorporateincludescashandmarketablesecurities.
(5)Includes$1,186millionofrestructuringexpense,comprisedof$369million,$496million,and$321millionfortheConsumer,Pharmaceutical,andMedicalDevicesandDiagnostics
segments,respectively.Includes$386millionoffourthquarternetlitigationgain,comprisedofa$92millionexpenseinthePharmaceuticalsegmentandagainof$478millioninthe
MedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegment.
(6)Includes$7millionand$174millionofIPR&DfortheConsumerandMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegments,respectively.Includes$379millionoffourthquarternetlitigationgain,
comprisedofa$50millionexpenseintheConsumersegmentandagainof$429millionintheMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegment.TheMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegment
alsoincludes$536milliongainonthedivestitureoftheProfessionalWoundCarebusinessofEthicon,Inc.
(7)Includes$745millionofrestructuringexpense,comprisedof$15million,$429million,and$301millionfortheConsumer,Pharmaceutical,andMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegments,
respectively.TheMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegmentincludes$807millionofIPR&D.ThePharmaceuticalsegmentalsoincludes$678millionforthewrite-downoftheNATRECOR®
intangibleasset.
(8)Long-livedassetsincludeproperty,plantandequipment,netfor2009,2008and2007of$14,759,$14,365and$14,185,respectively,andintangibleassetsandgoodwill,netfor2009,
2008and2007of$31,185,$27,695and$28,763,respectively.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5519.SelectedQuarterlyFinancialData(unaudited)
Selectedunauditedquarterlyfinancialdatafortheyears2009and2008aresummarizedbelow:
______________________2_0__0_9_______________________ _______________________2_0_0_8______________________
First Second Third Fourth First Second Third Fourth
(DollarsinMillionsExceptPerShareData) Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter(1) Quarter Quarter(2) Quarter Quarter(3)
Segmentsalestocustomers
Consumer $3,711 3,854 3,989 4,249 4,064 4,036 4,099 3,855
Pharmaceutical 5,780 5,498 5,249 5,993 6,429 6,340 6,113 5,685
MedDevices&Diagnostics 5,535 5,887 5,843 6,309 5,701 6,074 5,709 5,642
Totalsales $15,026 15,239 15,081 16,551 16,194 16,450 15,921 15,182
Grossprofit 10,775 10,789 10,647 11,239 11,580 11,699 11,147 10,810
Earningsbeforeprovisionfortaxesonincome 4,643 4,263 4,245 2,604 4,747 4,375 4,290 3,517
Netearnings 3,507 3,208 3,345 2,206 3,598 3,327 3,310 2,714
Basicnetearningspershare $ 1.27 1.16 1.21 0.80 1.27 1.18 1.19 0.98
Dilutednetearningspershare $ 1.26 1.15 1.20 0.79 1.26 1.17 1.17 0.97
(1)Thefourthquarterof2009includesanafter-taxchargeof$852millionforrestructuringand$212millionafter-taxofincomefromnetlitigation.
(2)Thesecondquarterof2008includesanafter-taxchargeof$40millionforIPR&D.
(3)Thefourthquarterof2008includesanafter-taxchargeof$141millionforIPR&D,$229millionafter-taxofincomefromnetlitigationand$331millionafter-taxgainonthedivestitureof
theProfessionalWoundCarebusinessofEthicon,Inc.ThegainfromthedivestitureoftheProfessionalWoundCarebusinessofEthicon,Inc.wasreinvestedinthebusiness.
20.BusinessCombinationsandDivestitures Certainbusinesseswereacquiredfor$1,214millionincashand
Certainbusinesseswereacquiredfor$2,470millionincashand $114millionofliabilitiesassumedduring2008.Theseacquisitions
$875millionofliabilitiesassumedandnon-controllinginterests wereaccountedforbythepurchasemethodand,accordingly,
during2009.Theseacquisitionswereaccountedforbythepur- resultsofoperationshavebeenincludedinthefinancialstatements
chasemethodand,accordingly,resultsofoperationshavebeen fromtheirrespectivedatesofacquisition.
includedinthefinancialstatementsfromtheirrespectivedates The2008acquisitionsincluded:AmicAB,aprivatelyheld
ofacquisition. Swedishdeveloperofinvitrodiagnostictechnologiesforusein
The2009acquisitionsincluded:MentorCorporation,aleading point-of-careandnear-patientsettings;BeijingDabaoCosmetics
supplierofmedicalproductsfortheglobalaestheticsmarket; Co.,Ltd.,acompanythatsellspersonalcarebrandsinChina;
CougarBiotechnology,Inc.,adevelopmentstagebiopharmaceutical SurgRx,Inc.,aprivatelyhelddeveloperoftheadvancedbipolar
companywithaspecificfocusononcology;FinsburyOrthopaedics tissuesealingsystemusedintheENSEAL®familyofdevices;
Limited,aprivatelyheldUK-basedmanufacturerandglobaldistrib- HealthMedia,Inc.,aprivatelyheldcompanythatcreatesweb-based
utoroforthopaedicimplants;GlosterEurope,aprivatelyhelddevel- behaviorchangeinterventions;LGEPerformanceSystems,Inc.,a
operofinnovativedisinfectionprocessesandtechnologiesto privatelyheldcompanyknownasHumanPerformanceInstitute™,
preventhealthcare-acquiredinfectionsandsubstantiallyallofthe whichdevelopsscience-basedtrainingprogramstoimprove
assetsandrightsofElan’sAlzheimer’sImmunotherapyProgram employeeengagementandproductivityandOmrixBiopharmaceu-
throughanewlyformedcompany,ofwhichtheCompanyowns ticals,Inc.,afullyintegratedbiopharmaceuticalcompanythat
50.1%andElanowns49.9%. developsandmarketsbiosurgicalandimmunotherapyproducts.
Theexcessofpurchasepriceovertheestimatedfairvalueof Theexcessofpurchasepriceovertheestimatedfairvalueof
tangibleassetsacquiredamountedto$2,940millionandhasbeen tangibleassetsacquiredamountedto$891millionandhasbeen
assignedtoidentifiableintangibleassets,withanyresidualrecorded assignedtoidentifiableintangibleassets,withanyresidualrecorded
togoodwill.Ofthisamount,approximately$1,737millionhasbeen togoodwill.Approximately$181millionhasbeenidentifiedasthe
identifiedasthevalueofIPR&Dprimarilyassociatedwiththeacqui- valueofIPR&DassociatedwiththeacquisitionsofOmrixBiophar-
sitionsofCougarBiotechnology,Inc.andsubstantiallyallofthe maceuticals,Inc.,AmicAB,SurgRx,Inc.andHealthMedia,Inc.
assetsandrightsofElan’sAlzheimer’sImmunotherapyProgram. TheIPR&DchargerelatedtotheacquisitionofOmrixBiophar-
Additionally,approximately$1,107millionhasbeenidentifiedasthe maceuticals,Inc.was$127millionandisassociatedwithstand-
valueofotherintangibleassets,includingpatents&technologyand aloneandcombinationbiosurgicaltechnologiesusedtoachieve
customerrelationshipsprimarilyassociatedwiththeacquisitionof hemostasis.ThevalueoftheIPR&Dwascalculatedusingcash
MentorCorporation. flowprojectionsdiscountedfortheriskinherentinsuchprojects.
TheIPR&DrelatedtotheacquisitionofCougarBiotechnology, Probabilityofsuccessfactorsrangingfrom60–90%wereused
Inc.was$971millionandisassociatedwithabirateroneacetate,a toreflectinherentclinicalandregulatoryrisk.Thediscountrate
latestage,first-in-classcompoundforthetreatmentofprostatecan- appliedwas14%.Asoftheendofthe2008fiscalyear,97.8%ofthe
cer.ThevalueoftheIPR&Dwascalculatedusingcashflowprojec- outstandingsharesofCommonStockofOmrixBiopharmaceuticals,
tionsdiscountedfortheriskinherentinsuchprojects.Probabilityof
successfactorsrangingfrom60–85%wereusedtoreflectinherent
clinicalandregulatoryrisk.Thediscountrateappliedwas23.5%.
RefertoNote6forinformationrelatedtotheElantransaction.
56 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTInc.hadbeentenderedbystockholders.Excludingsharesthat Note21—LegalProceedings
weretenderedsubjecttoguaranteeddeliveryprocedures,90.2% PRODUCTLIABILITY
oftheoutstandingsharesofCommonStockhadbeentendered. TheCompany’ssubsidiariesareinvolvedinnumerousproduct
OnDecember30,2008theCompanycompletedtheacquisition liabilitycasesintheUnitedStates,manyofwhichconcernalleged
ofOmrixBiopharmaceuticals,Inc. adversereactionstodrugsandmedicaldevices.Thedamages
TheIPR&DchargerelatedtotheacquisitionofAmicABwas claimedaresubstantial,andwhiletheCompanyisconfidentofthe
$40millionandisassociatedwithpoint-of-caredeviceand4CAST adequacyofthewarningsandinstructionsforusethataccompany
Chiptechnologies.ThevalueoftheIPR&Dwascalculatedusing suchproducts,itisnotfeasibletopredicttheultimateoutcomeof
cashflowprojectionsdiscountedfortheriskinherentinsuch litigation.However,theCompanybelievesthatifanyproductliabil-
projects.Thediscountrateappliedwas20%. ityresultsfromsuchcases,itwillbesubstantiallycoveredbyexist-
TheIPR&DchargerelatedtotheacquisitionofSurgRx,Inc.was ingamountsaccruedintheCompany’sbalancesheetand,where
$7millionandisassociatedwithvesselcuttingandsealingsurgical available,bythird-partyproductliabilityinsurance.
devices.ThevalueoftheIPR&Dwascalculatedusingcashflowpro- MultipleproductsofJohnson&Johnsonsubsidiaries
jectionsdiscountedfortheriskinherentinsuchprojects.Probability aresubjecttonumerousproductliabilityclaimsandlawsuits.
ofsuccessfactorsrangingfrom90–95%wereusedtoreflectinher- Thereareasignificantnumberofclaimantswhohavepending
entclinicalandregulatoryrisk.Thediscountrateappliedwas18%. lawsuitsorclaimsregardinginjuriesallegedlyduetoORTHO
TheIPR&DchargerelatedtotheacquisitionofHealthMedia, EVRA®,RISPERDAL®,LEVAQUIN®,DURAGESIC®,theCHARITÉ™
Inc.was$7millionandisassociatedprimarilywithprocess ArtificialDiscandCYPHER®Stent.Theseclaimantsseeksub-
enhancementstosoftwaretechnology.ThevalueoftheIPR&Dwas stantialcompensatoryand,whereavailable,punitivedamages.
calculatedusingcashflowprojectionsdiscountedfortheriskinher- WithrespecttoRISPERDAL®,theAttorneysGeneralofeight
entinsuchprojects.Aprobabilityofsuccessfactorof90%was statesandtheOfficeofGeneralCounseloftheCommonwealthof
usedtoreflectinherentrisk.Thediscountrateappliedwas14%. PennsylvaniahavefiledactionsseekingreimbursementofMedicaid
Certainbusinesseswereacquiredfor$1,388millionincashand orotherpublicfundsforRISPERDAL®prescriptionswrittenfor
$232millionofliabilitiesassumedduring2007.Theseacquisitions off-labeluse,compensationfortreatingtheircitizensforalleged
wereaccountedforbythepurchasemethodand,accordingly, adversereactionstoRISPERDAL®,civilfinesorpenalties,punitive
resultsofoperationshavebeenincludedinthefinancialstatements damages,orotherrelief.TheAttorneyGeneralofTexashasjoineda
fromtheirrespectivedatesofacquisition. quitamactioninthatstateseekingsimilarrelief.Certainofthese
The2007acquisitionsincluded:ConorMedsystems,Inc.,a actionsalsoseekinjunctivereliefrelatingtothepromotionof
cardiovasculardevicecompany,withnewdrugdeliverytechnology; RISPERDAL®.TheAttorneysGeneralofmorethan40otherstates
RobertReid,Inc.,aJapaneseorthopedicproductdistributor;and haveindicatedapotentialinterestinpursuingsimilarlitigation
Maya’sMom,Inc.,asocialmediacompany. againsttheCompany’ssubsidiary,JanssenPharmaceuticaInc.
Theexcessofpurchasepriceovertheestimatedfairvalue (Janssen)(nowOrtho-McNeil-JanssenPharmaceuticalsInc.
oftangibleassetsacquiredamountedto$636millionandhas (OMJPI)),andhaveobtainedatollingagreementstayingtherun-
beenassignedtoidentifiableintangibleassets,withanyresidual ningofthestatuteoflimitationswhiletheyinquireintotheissues.
recordedtogoodwill.Approximately$807millionhasbeenidenti- Inaddition,therearesixcasesfiledbyunionhealthplansseeking
fiedasthevalueofIPR&DassociatedwiththeacquisitionofConor damagesforallegedoverpaymentsforRISPERDAL®,severalof
Medsystems,Inc. whichseekcertificationasclassactions.Inthecasebroughtbythe
TheIPR&DchargerelatedtotheacquisitionofConor AttorneyGeneralofWestVirginia,basedonclaimsforallegedcon-
Medsystems,Inc.was$807millionandisassociatedwithresearch sumerfraudastoDURAGESIC®aswellasRISPERDAL®,Janssen
relatedtothediscoveryandapplicationofthestenttechnology. (nowOMJPI)wasfoundliableanddamageswereassessedat
ThevalueoftheIPR&Dwascalculatedusingcashflowprojections $4.5million.OMJPIhasfiledanappeal.
discountedfortheriskinherentinsuchprojects.Thediscountrate NumerousclaimsandlawsuitsintheUnitedStatesrelating
appliedwas19%. tothedrugPROPULSID®,withdrawnfromgeneralsalebythe
Supplementalproformainformationfor2009,2008and2007 Company’sJanssen(nowOMJPI)subsidiaryin2000,havebeen
inaccordancewithU.S.GAAPstandardsrelatedtobusinesscombi- resolvedorarecurrentlyenrolledinsettlementprogramswithan
nations,andgoodwillandotherintangibleassets,isnotprovided,as aggregatecapbelow$100million.Similarlitigationconcerning
theimpactoftheaforementionedacquisitionsdidnothaveamate- PROPULSID®ispendinginCanada,whereanationalclassactionof
rialeffectontheCompany’sresultsofoperations,cashflowsor personsallegingadversereactionstothedrughasbeencertified
financialposition. andasettlementprograminstitutedwithanaggregatecapbelow
WiththeexceptionofthedivestitureoftheProfessional $10million.
WoundCarebusinessofEthicon,Inc.,whichresultedinagainof
$536millionbeforetax,andisrecordedinother(income)expense, AFFIRMATIVESTENTPATENTLITIGATION
net,in2008,divestituresin2009,2008and2007didnothavea InpatentinfringementactionstriedinDelawareFederalDistrict
materialeffectontheCompany’sresultsofoperations,cashflows Courtinlate2000,CordisCorporation(Cordis),asubsidiaryof
orfinancialposition. Johnson&Johnson,obtainedverdictsofinfringementandpatent
validity,anddamageawardsagainstBostonScientificCorporation
(BostonScientific)andMedtronicAVE,Inc.(Medtronic)basedon
anumberofCordisvascularstentpatents.InDecember2000,the
juryinthedamageactionagainstBostonScientificreturnedaver-
dictof$324millionandthejuryintheMedtronicactionreturneda
verdictof$271million.TheCourtofAppealsfortheFederalCircuit
hasupheldliabilityinthesecases,andonSeptember30,2008,the
districtcourtenteredjudgments,includinginterest,intheamounts
of$702millionand$521millionagainstBostonScientificand
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 57Medtronic,respectively.Medtronicpaid$472millioninOctober AppealsfortheFederalCircuitheldtheDingpatentinvalidanda
2008,representingthejudgment,netofamountsexchangedinset- judgmentinfavorofCordisinthatcasehasbeenentered.InMarch
tlementofanumberofotherlitigationsbetweenthecompanies. 2009,theCourtofAppealsfortheFederalCircuitupheldthejudg-
Thenetsettlementof$472millionwasrecordedasacredittoother mentthatCordis’CYPHER®StentinfringedBostonScientific’sJang
(income)expense,netinthe2008consolidatedstatementofearn- patent.Thecasehasbeenremandedforatrialontheissuesofdam-
ings.InSeptember2009,CordissettledthiscasewithBostonScien- agesandwillfulness.TheJangcasehasbeendismissedaspartof
tifictogetherwiththeKasenthofer/FontirrocheandDingcases theJanuary2010settlementdescribedintheparagraphabove
describedbelow,foranetpaymentof$716million.Aspartofthat relatingtotheExpress2™,Taxus®andLiberte®stents.
settlementBostonScientificreceivedapaiduplicensetothe InGermany,BostonScientifichadseveralactionsbasedonits
FontirrochefamilyofpatentsworldwideandCordisreceivedapaid DingpatentspendingagainsttheCordisCYPHER®Stent.Boston
licensetotheKastenhoferandDingfamiliesofpatentsworldwide ScientificalsohadbroughtactionsinBelgium,theNetherlands,
andthepartiessettledallpendinglawsuitsworldwiderelatingto Germany,FranceandItalyunderitsKastenhoferpatent,which
thesepatents.Thereceiptof$716million,lesstheimpactofother purportstocovertwo-layercatheterssuchasthoseusedtodeliver
litigationmatters,resultedinacredittoother(income)expense,net theCYPHER®Stent.Thesecaseshavebeensettledaspartofthe
of$386millioninthefiscalfourthquarterof2009.Inaddition,in September2009settlementdescribedabove.
May2009,Medtronicpaid$270milliontosettleadditionalpatent TrialinBostonScientific’sU.S.casebasedontheKastenhofer
infringementclaimsassertedbyCordisbasedonitsvascularstent patentinFederalDistrictCourtinCaliforniaconcludedinOctober
patents,whichwasrecordedasacredittoother(income)expense, 2007withajuryfindingthatthepatentwasinvalid.Thejuryalso
netinthefiscalsecondquarterof2009. foundforCordisonitscounterclaimthatsalebyBostonScientificof
InJanuary2003,Cordisfiledapatentinfringementaction itsballooncathetersandstentdeliverysystemsinfringeCordis’
againstBostonScientificinDelawareFederalDistrictCourtaccus- Fontirrochepatent.TheCourthasdeniedBostonScientific’spost
ingitsExpress2™,Taxus®andLiberte®stentsofinfringingthePal- trialmotions.ThiscasewassettledaspartoftheSeptember2009
mazpatentthatexpiredinNovember2005.TheLiberte®stentwas settlementdescribedabove.
alsoaccusedofinfringingCordis’Graypatentthatexpiresin2016. InMay2008,Centocor,Inc.(Centocor)(nowCentocorOrtho
InJune2005,ajuryfoundthattheExpress2™,Taxus®andLiberte® BiotechInc.(COBI))filedalawsuitagainstGenentech,Inc.(Genen-
stentsinfringedthePalmazpatentandthattheLiberte®stentalso tech)inU.S.DistrictCourtfortheCentralDistrictofCaliforniaseek-
infringedtheGraypatent.OnMarch31,2009,theU.S.Courtof ingtoinvalidatetheCabillyIIpatent.Priortofilingsuit,Centocor
AppealsfortheFederalCircuitaffirmedthisjudgment.Thecase hadasublicenseunderthispatentfromCelltech(whowaslicensed
wasremandedtothedistrictcourtforatrialondamagesandwill- byGenentech)forREMICADE®andhadbeenpayingroyaltiesto
fulness.CordisalsofiledalawsuitinDelawareFederalDistrictCourt Celltech.Centocorhasterminatedthatsublicenseandstopped
inOctoberof2008allegingthatBostonScientific’ssalesofTaxus® payingroyalties.Genentechhasfiledacounterclaimallegingthat
andLiberte®afterJuneof2005infringesCordis’Graypatent.On REMICADE®infringesitsCabillyIIpatentsandthatthemanufacture
January29,2010,thesecasestogetherwiththeJangcasereferred ofREMICADE®,STELARA™,SIMPONI™andReoPro®alsoinfringes
tointheparagraphbelow,weresettled.Underthetermsoftheset- oneofitsotherpatentsrelatingtothepurificationofantibodiesmade
tlement,BostonScientificpaidCordis$1.0billiononFebruary1, throughrecombinantDNAtechniques.Thecourthasscheduleda
2010,andwillpayCordisanadditional$725millionplusintereston hearingforSummaryJudgmentMotionsinAugust2010.
January3,2011.CordisgrantedBostonScientificapaidupworld- InApril2009,abenchtrialwasheldbeforetheFederalDistrict
widelicenseunderthePalmazandGraypatentsandBostonScien- CourtfortheMiddleDistrictofFloridaontheliabilityphaseof
tificgrantedCordisapaidupworldwidelicenseundertheJang Ciba’spatentinfringementlawsuitallegingthatJohnson&Johnson
patentsforallstentssoldbyCordisexceptthe2.25mmsizeCypher. VisionCare,Inc.’s(JJVC)ACUVUE®OASYS™lensesinfringethree
CordishasseveralpendinglawsuitsinNewJerseyand oftheirNicholsonpatents.InAugust2009,theDistrictCourtfound
DelawareFederalDistrictCourtagainstGuidantCorporation twoofthesepatentsvalidandinfringedandenteredjudgment
(Guidant),AbbottLaboratories,Inc.(Abbott),BostonScientificand againstJJVC.JJVChasappealedthatjudgmenttotheCourtof
MedtronicallegingthattheXienceV™(Abbott),Promus™(Boston AppealsfortheFederalCircuit.OnMarch22,2010,theDistrict
Scientific)andEndeavor®(Medtronic)drugelutingstentsinfringe CourtwillholdahearingonCiba’smotionforapermanentinjunc-
severalpatentsownedbyorlicensedtoCordis.Inoneofthecases tion.IfthejudgmentisupheldonappealtheCourtwillschedule
againstBostonScientific,allegingthatsalesoftheirPromus™stent anothertrialtodeterminedamagesandwillfulness.
infringedWrightandFaloticopatents,onJanuary20,2010the InMay2009,AbbottBiotechnologyLtd.filedapatentinfringe-
DistrictCourtinDelawarefoundtheWright/Faloticopatentinvalid mentlawsuitagainstCentocor(nowCOBI)intheUnitedStatesDis-
forlackofwrittendescriptionand/orlackofenablement.Cordis trictCourtfortheDistrictofMassachusetts.Thesuitallegesthat
intendstoappealthisruling. Centocor’sSIMPONI™product,ahumananti-TNFalphaantibody,
infringesAbbott’s’394patent(theSalfeldpatent).Thecasehas
PATENTLITIGATIONAGAINSTVARIOUS beenstayedpendingtheresolutionofanarbitrationfiledbyCento-
JOHNSON&JOHNSONSUBSIDIARIES cordirectedtoitsclaimthatitislicensedunderthe’394patent.The
TheproductsofvariousJohnson&Johnsonsubsidiariesarethe arbitrationisscheduledforMarch2010.
subjectofvariouspatentlawsuits,theoutcomesofwhichcould InAugust2009,AbbottGmbH&Co.(AbbottGmbH)and
potentiallyadverselyaffecttheabilityofthosesubsidiariestosell AbbottBioresearchCenterfiledapatentinfringementlawsuit
thoseproducts,orrequirethepaymentofpastdamagesand againstCOBIintheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrictof
futureroyalties. Massachusetts.ThesuitallegesthatCOBI’sSTELARA™product
InJuly2005,ajuryinFederalDistrictCourtinDelawarefound infringestwoU.S.patentsassignedtoAbbottGmbH.InAugust
thattheCordisCYPHER®StentinfringedBostonScientific’sDing 2009,COBIfiledacomplaintforadeclaratoryjudgmentofnon-
’536patentandthattheCordisCYPHER®andBXVELOCITY® infringementandinvalidityoftheAbbottGmbHpatentsinthe
StentsalsoinfringedBostonScientific’sJang’021patent.Thejury UnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrictofColumbia.Onthe
alsofoundbothofthosepatentsvalid.InJanuary2009,theCourtof samedate,alsointheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrictof
58 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTColumbia,COBIfiledaComplaintforReviewofaPatentInterfer- Texas.OnJune28,2009ajuryreturnedaverdictfindingthepatent
enceDecisiongrantingpriorityofinventionononeofthetwo validandwillfullyinfringed,andawardedCentocordamagesof
assertedpatentstoAbbottGmbH.InAugust2009,AbbottGmbH approximately$1.7billion.AbenchtrialonAbbott’sdefenses,of
andAbbottLaboratoriesLimitedbroughtapatentinfringementsuit inequitableconductandprosecutionlaches,washeldinAugust
inCanadaallegingthatSTELARA™infringesAbbottGmbH’sCana- 2009,andtheDistrictCourtdecidedtheseissuesinfavorofCento-
dianpatent.ThecasesfiledbyCOBIintheDistrictofColumbiahave cor.AllofAbbott’sposttrialmotionshavebeendeniedexceptthat
beentransferredtotheDistrictofMassachusetts. theDistrictCourtgrantedAbbott’smotiontooverturnthejuryfind-
InAugust2009,BayerHealthcareLLCfiledsuitagainstCOBI ingofwillfulness.Judgmentintheamountof$1.9billionwas
inMassachusettsDistrictCourtalleginginfringementbyCOBI’s enteredinfavorofCentocorinDecember2009andAbbotthas
SIMPONI™productofitspatentrelatingtohumananti-TNFanti- filedanappealtotheCourtofAppealsfortheFederalCircuit.The
bodies.BayerhasalsofiledsuitunderitsEuropeancounterpartto Companyhasnotreflectedanyofthe$1.9billioninitsconsolidated
thesepatentsinGermanyandtheNetherlands. financialstatements.Centocorhasalsofiledanewlawsuitinthe
InJune2009,Centocor’s(nowCOBI)lawsuitallegingthat EasternDistrictofTexasseekingdamagesforinfringementofthe
Abbott’sHUMIRAanti-TNFalphaproductinfringesCentocor’s’775 ’775patentattributabletosalesofHUMIRAsubsequenttothejury
patentwenttotrialinFederalDistrictCourtintheEasternDistrictof verdictinJune2009.
ThefollowingchartsummarizesvariouspatentlawsuitsconcerningproductsoftheCompany’ssubsidiariesthathaveyettoproceed
totrial:
J&J Plaintiff/
Product Company Patents PatentHolder Court TrialDate** DateFiled
CYPHER®Stent Cordis Wall Wall E.D.TX Q2/11 11/07
CYPHER®Stent Cordis Saffran Saffran E.D.TX Q2/11 10/07
BloodGlucoseMetersandStrips LifeScan Wilsey RocheDiagnostics D.DE * 11/07
REMICADE®,ustekinumab, Centocor/COBI CabillyII Genentech C.D.CA * 05/08
golimumab,ReoPro®
SIMPONI™ Centocor/COBI Salfeld AbbottLaboratories MA * 05/09
SIMPONI™ Centocor/COBI Boyle BayerHealthcare MA * 08/09
STELARA™ Centocor/COBI Salfeld AbbottGmbH MA/DC * 08/09
*Trialdatetobescheduled.
**QreflectstheCompany’sfiscalquarter.
LITIGATIONAGAINSTFILERSOFABBREVIATEDNEWDRUG non-infringement,invalidityandunenforceabilityofthesepatents.
APPLICATIONS(ANDAs) IntheeventthesubsidiaryoftheCompanyinvolvedisnotsuccess-
Thefollowingchartindicateslawsuitspendingagainstgenericfirms fulintheseactions,orthestatutory30-monthstayexpiresbeforea
thatfiledAbbreviatedNewDrugApplications(ANDAs)seekingto rulingfromthedistrictcourtisobtained,thefirmsinvolvedwillhave
marketgenericformsofproductssoldbyvarioussubsidiariesof theability,uponFDAapproval,tointroducegenericversionsofthe
theCompanypriortoexpirationoftheapplicablepatentscovering productatissueresultinginverysubstantialmarketshareand
thoseproducts.TheseANDAstypicallyincludeallegationsof revenuelossesfortheproductoftheCompany’ssubsidiary.
Asnotedinthefollowingchart,30-monthstaysexpiredduring2009,andwillexpirein2010,2011and2012withrespecttoANDA
challengesregardingvariousproducts:
BrandName Patent/NDA Generic Trial Date 30-Month
Product Holder Challenger Court Date** Filed StayExpiration
CONCERTA® McNeil-PPC Andrx D.DE Q4/07 09/05 None
18,27,36and54mgcontrolled ALZA KUDCO D.DE * 01/10 05/12
releasetablet
LEVAQUIN®250,500,750mgtablet Ortho-McNeil Lupin D.NJ * 10/06 03/09
ORTHOTRI-CYCLEN®LO Ortho-McNeil Watson D.NJ * 10/08 03/11
0.18mg/0.025mg,0.215mg/0.025mg Sandoz D.NJ * 06/09 10/11
and0.25mg/0.025mg D.NJ * 06/12
ULTRAMER®100,200,300mgtablet Ortho-McNeil/Biovail Par D.DE Q2/09 05/07 09/09
06/07 11/09
10/07 03/10
ULTRAMER®100,200,300mgtablet Ortho-McNeil/Biovail Impax D.DE Q2/10 08/08 01/11
11/08 03/11
ULTRAMER®100,200,300mgtablet Ortho-McNeil/Biovail Paddock D.DRD.Minn. * 09/09 01/12
ULTRAMER®100,200,300mgtablet Ortho-McNeil/Biovail Cipher D.DE * 10/09 03/12
ULTRAMER®100,200,300mgtablet Ortho-McNeil/Biovail Lupin D.DE * 01/10 06/12
*Trialdatetobescheduled.
**QreflectstheCompany’sfiscalquarter.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 59IntheactionagainstBarrPharmaceuticals,Inc.(Barr)(nowa theDelawaredecisioninvalidatingtheRAZADYNE®usepatent.
wholly-ownedsubsidiaryofTevaPharmaceuticalIndustriesLTD.) Asaresult,thiscasewillnotbereopened.
regardingORTHOTRI-CYCLEN®LO,inJanuary2008,theCom- IntheactionagainstLupinPharmaceuticals,Inc.(Lupin)
pany’ssubsidiaryOrthoWomen’sHealth&Urology,aDivisionof regardingitsANDAconcerningLEVAQUIN®,Lupincontendsthat
Ortho-McNeil-JanssenPharmaceuticals,Inc.(OMJPI),andBarr theU.S.PatentandTrademarkOfficeimproperlygrantedapatent
agreedtoanon-bindingtermsheettosettlethelitigation,which termextensiontothepatentthatOrtho-McNeil(nowOrtho-
settlementdiscussionsarestillunderway.Thetrialcourtpostponed McNeil-JanssenPharmaceuticals,Inc.(OMJPI))licensesfrom
theJanuary2008trialwithoutsettinganewtrialdate.InJune DaiichiPharmaceuticals,Inc.(Daiichi).Lupinallegesthattheactive
2009,Barrlauncheditsgenericproduct“atrisk”beforetrial.OMJPI ingredientinLEVAQUIN®wasthesubjectofpriormarketing,and
soughtapreliminaryinjunctionandrecallofBarrproductwhichthe thereforewasnoteligibleforthepatenttermextension.Lupincon-
CourtgrantedinJuly2009.InJuly2009,thepartiesenteredintoa cedesvalidityandthatitsproductwouldviolatethepatentifmar-
definitiveagreementtosettlethelawsuit.Underthetermsofthe ketedpriortotheexpirationoftheoriginalpatentterm.Summary
settlement,Barrobtainedareleaseforitssalesofitsgenericproduct judgmentagainstLupinwasgrantedinMay2009andLupin
inexchangeforanundisclosedroyaltypayment.Barralsoobtaineda appealed.OralargumentwasheldinSeptember2009.Adecision
non-exclusive,royalty-bearinglicensetore-enterthemarketon ispending.
December31,2015,orearlierincertainlimitedcircumstances. IntheULTRAM®ERactions,Ortho-McNeilPharmaceutical,
InOctober2008,theCompany’ssubsidiaryOMJPIfiledsuitin Inc.(Ortho-McNeil)(nowOMJPI),filedlawsuits(eachfordifferent
FederalDistrictCourtinNewJerseyagainstWatsonLaboratories, dosages)againstParPharmaceuticals,Inc.andParPharmaceuticals
Inc.(Watson)inresponsetoWatson’sANDAregardingORTHO Companies,Inc.(Par)inMay,JuneandOctober2007ontwo
TRI-CYCLEN®LO.InJune2009,theCompany’ssubsidiaryOMJPI TramadolERformulationpatentsownedbyPurduePharma
filedsuitinFederalDistrictCourtinNewJerseyagainstSandoz ProductsL.P.(Purdue)andNappPharmaceuticalGroupLtd.(Napp).
Laboratories,Inc.(Sandoz)inresponsetoSandoz’sANDAregarding OMJPIalsofiledlawsuits(eachfordifferentdosages)againstImpax
ORTHOTRI-CYCLEN®LO.TheSandozandWatsoncaseshave Laboratories,Inc.(Impax)onaTramadolERformulationpatent
beenconsolidated. ownedbyPurdueandNappinAugustandNovember2008.Purdue,
InJanuary2010,theCompany’ssubsidiaryOMJPIfiledsuitin NappandBiovailLaboratoriesInternationalSRL(Biovail)(theNDA
FederalDistrictCourtinNewJerseyagainstLupinLtd.andLupin holder)joinedasco-plaintiffsinthelawsuitsagainstParandImpax,
Pharmaceuticals,Inc.(collectively“Lupin”)inresponsetoLupin’s butBiovailandOMJPIweresubsequentlydismissedforlackof
ANDAregardingORTHOTRI-CYCLEN®LO. standing.ThetrialagainstPartookplaceinApril2009.InAugust
IntheactionagainstBarrandAlphaPharmwithrespecttotheir 2009,theCourtissuedadecisionfindingthepatents-in-suitinvalid.
ANDAchallengestotheRAZADYNE®patentthatJanssen(now Purduehasappealedthatdecision.ThetrialagainstImpaxissched-
OMJPI)licensesfromSynaptech,Inc.(Synaptech),afour-daynon- uledforJune2010.InNovember2009,thecaseagainstImpaxwas
jurytrialwasheldintheFederalDistrictCourtinDelawareinMay stayedwiththeconsentofallparties.InSeptemberandOctober
2007.InAugust2008,thecourtheldthatthepatentwasinvalid 2009,respectively,PurduefiledsuitsagainstPaddockLaboratories,
becauseitwasnotenabled.Janssen(OMJPI)andSynaptechhave Inc.(Paddock)andCipherPharmaceuticalsInc.(Cipher)onits
appealedthedecision.Sincethecourt’sdecision,multiplegeneric TramadolERformulationpatents.
companieshavereceivedfinalapprovalsfortheirproductsandhave InJanuary2010,PurduefiledasuitagainstLupinLtd.(Lupin)
launched“atrisk”pendingappeal.Additionalgenericapprovalsand onitsTramadolERformulationpatents.
launchescouldoccuratanytime.InSeptember2009,theCourtof InSeptember2009,CentocorOrthoBiotechProducts,L.P.
Appealsaffirmedthejudgmentthatthepatentisinvalid. (COBI,LP)intervenedinaninventorshipdisputebetweenKansas
IntheactionbyMcNEIL-PPC,Inc.(McNeil-PPC)andALZA UniversityCenterforResearch(KUCR)involvingcertainU.S.
Corporation(ALZA)againstAndrxCorporation(Andrx)with government-ownedVELCADE®formulationpatents.KUCRbrought
respecttoitsANDAchallengetotheCONCERTA®patents,afive- thisactionagainsttheU.S.governmentintheDistrictofKansas
daynon-jurytrialwasheldintheFederalDistrictCourtinDelaware seekingtoaddtwoKansasUniversityscientiststothepatents.
inDecember2007.InMarch2009,thecourtruledthatone TheU.S.governmentlicensedthepatents(andtheirforeigncoun-
CONCERTA®patentwouldnotbeinfringedbyAndrx’sproposed terparts)toMillenniumPharmaceuticals,Inc.,whointurnsubli-
genericproductandthatthepatentwasinvalidbecauseitwasnot censedthepatents(andtheirforeigncounterparts)toCOBI,LP
enabled.ThecourtdismissedwithoutprejudiceAndrx’sdeclaratory forcommercialmarketingoutsidetheU.S.IfKUCRsucceedsinits
judgmentsuitonasecondpatentforlackofjurisdiction.McNeil- co-inventorshipclaimandestablishesco-ownershipintheU.S.
PPCandALZAfiledanappealinMay2009.Theappealscourt VELCADE®formulationpatents,weanticipatethatKUCRwilliniti-
heardargumentonFebruary3,2010.Adecisionispending. ateactionstoestablishco-inventorshipandco-ownershipwith
ALZAandOMJPIfiledasecondsuitinFederalDistrictCourtin respecttotheforeigncounterpartpatentsinthecountrieswhere
DelawareagainstKremers-Urban,LLCandKUDCOIreland,Ltd. COBI,LPhascommercialmarketingrights.IfKUCRinKansasis
(KUDCO)inJanuary2010inresponsetoKUDCO’sANDAchal- successful,thismayadverselyaffectCOBI,LP’slicenserightsin
lengeregardingCONCERTA®tablets.Initsnoticeletter,KUDCO thosecountries.
contendsthattwoALZApatentsforCONCERTA®areinvalidand
notinfringedbyaKUDCOgeneric. AVERAGEWHOLESALEPRICE(AWP)LITIGATION
IntheRAZADYNE®ERcases,alawsuitwasfiledagainstBarr Johnson&Johnsonandseveralofitspharmaceuticalsubsidiaries,
ontheRAZADYNE®usepatentthatJanssen(nowOMJPI)licenses alongwithnumerousotherpharmaceuticalcompanies,aredefen-
fromSynaptechinJune2006.InSeptember2008,theabove- dantsinaseriesoflawsuitsinstateandfederalcourtsinvolvingalle-
discussedDelawaredecisioninvalidatingtheRAZADYNE®use gationsthatthepricingandmarketingofcertainpharmaceutical
patentresultedinentryofjudgmentforBarronthatpatent,butthe productsamountedtofraudulentandotherwiseactionableconduct
casewillbereopenedifJanssen(nowOMJPI)andSynaptechwin because,amongotherthings,thecompaniesallegedlyreportedan
onappeal.BarrhasreceivedFDAapprovalofitsproductandhas inflatedAverageWholesalePrice(AWP)forthedrugsatissue.
launched“atrisk.”InSeptember2009,theFederalCircuitaffirmed Manyofthesecases,bothfederalactionsandstateactions
60 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTremovedtofederalcourt,havebeenconsolidatedforpre-trialpur- InSeptember2004,plaintiffsinanemploymentdiscrimination
posesinaMulti-DistrictLitigation(MDL)inFederalDistrictCourt litigationinitiatedagainsttheCompanyin2001inFederalDistrict
inBoston,Massachusetts.Theplaintiffsinthesecasesinclude CourtinNewJerseymovedtocertifyaclassofallAfricanAmerican
classesofprivatepersonsorentitiesthatpaidforanyportionofthe andHispanicsalariedemployeesoftheCompanyanditsaffiliatesin
purchaseofthedrugsatissuebasedonAWP,andstategovernment theU.S.,whowereemployedatanytimefromNovember1997to
entitiesthatmadeMedicaidpaymentsforthedrugsatissuebased thepresent.Plaintiffsseekmonetarydamagesfortheperiod1997
onAWP. throughthepresent(includingpunitivedamages)andequitable
TheMDLCourtidentifiedclassesofMassachusetts-onlypri- relief.TheCourtdeniedplaintiffs’classcertificationmotionin
vateinsurersproviding“Medi-gap”insurancecoverageandprivate December2006andtheirmotionforreconsiderationinApril2007.
payersforphysician-administereddrugswherepaymentswere Plaintiffssoughttoappealthesedecisionsand,inApril2008,the
basedonAWP(“Class2”and“Class3”),andanationalclassof CourtofAppealsruledthatplaintiffs’appealofthedenialofclass
individualswhomadeco-paymentsforphysician-administered certificationwasuntimely.InJuly2009,plaintiffsfiledamotionfor
drugscoveredbyMedicare(“Class1”).AtrialofthetwoMassachu- certificationofamodifiedclass,whichtheCompanyisopposing.
setts-onlyclassactionsconcludedbeforetheMDLCourtinDecem- Plaintiffsareengagedinfurtherdiscoveryofindividualplaintiffs’
ber2006.InJune2007,theMDLCourtissuedpost-trialrulings, claims.Thehearingonplaintiffs’motionforclasscertificationis
dismissingtheJohnson&Johnsondefendantsfromthecaseregard- scheduledforJuly2010.
ingallclaimsofClasses2and3,andsubsequentlyofClass1aswell. InMarch2005,DePuyOrthopaedics,Inc.(DePuy),aJohnson
PlaintiffsappealedtheClass1judgmentand,inSeptember2009, &Johnsonsubsidiary,receivedasubpoenafromtheU.S.Attorney’s
theCourtofAppealsvacatedthejudgmentandremandedfor Office,DistrictofNewJersey,seekingrecordsconcerningcontrac-
furtherproceedingsintheDistrictCourt.AWPcasesbroughtby tualrelationshipsbetweenDePuyandsurgeonsorsurgeons-in-
variousAttorneysGeneralhaveproceededtotrialagainstother traininginvolvedinhipandkneereplacementandreconstructive
manufacturers.OnestatecaseagainstcertainoftheCompany’s surgery.ThisinvestigationwasresolvedbyDePuyandthefourother
subsidiarieshasbeensetfortrialinlate2010,andotherstatecases leadingsuppliersofhipandkneeimplantsinlateSeptember2007
arelikelytobesetfortrialthereafter. byagreementswiththeU.S.Attorney’sOfficefortheDistrictof
NewJersey.Thesettlementsincludedan18-monthDeferredProse-
OTHER cutionAgreement(DPA),acceptancebyeachcompanyofamoni-
InJuly2003,Centocor(nowCOBI),aJohnson&Johnsonsub- tortoassurecompliancewiththeDPAand,withrespecttofourof
sidiary,receivedarequestthatitvoluntarilyprovidedocumentsand thefivecompanies,paymentofsettlementmoniesandentryinto
informationtothecriminaldivisionoftheU.S.Attorney’sOffice, fiveyearCorporateIntegrityAgreements.DePuypaid$85millionas
DistrictofNewJersey,inconnectionwithitsinvestigationintovari- itssettlement.ThetermoftheMonitorshipundertheDeferred
ousCentocormarketingpractices.Subsequentrequestsfordocu- ProsecutionAgreementconcludedonMarch27,2009,andanorder
mentshavebeenreceivedfromtheU.S.Attorney’sOffice.Boththe dismissingallchargeswasenteredonMarch30,2009.
CompanyandCentocorhaverespondedtotheserequestsfor InNovember2007,theAttorneyGeneraloftheCommon-
documentsandinformation. wealthofMassachusettsissuedaCivilInvestigativeDemandto
InDecember2003,Ortho-McNeil(nowOMJPI)receiveda DePuyseekinginformationregardingfinancialrelationships
subpoenafromtheU.S.Attorney’sOfficeinBoston,Massachusetts betweenanumberofMassachusetts-basedorthopedicsurgeons
seekingdocumentsrelatingtothemarketing,includingallegedoff- andprovidersandDePuy.DePuyisrespondingtoMassachusetts’
labelmarketing,ofthedrugTOPAMAX®(topiramate).Additional additionalrequests.
subpoenasfordocumentshavebeenreceived,andcurrentandfor- InJuly2005,SciosInc.(Scios),aJohnson&Johnsonsubsidiary,
meremployeeshavetestifiedbeforeagrandjury.Discussionsare receivedasubpoenafromtheU.S.Attorney’sOffice,DistrictofMas-
underwayinanefforttoresolvethismatter,butwhetheragreement sachusetts,seekingdocumentsrelatedtothesalesandmarketingof
canbereachedandonwhattermsisuncertain. NATRECOR®.Sciosrespondedtothesubpoena.InearlyAugust
InJanuary2004,Janssen(nowOMJPI)receivedasubpoena 2005,Scioswasadvisedthattheinvestigationwouldbehandledby
fromtheOfficeoftheInspectorGeneraloftheU.S.OfficeofPerson- theU.S.Attorney’sOfficefortheNorthernDistrictofCaliforniain
nelManagementseekingdocumentsconcerningsalesandmarket- SanFrancisco.Additionalrequestsfordocumentshavebeenreceived
ingof,anyandallpaymentstophysiciansinconnectionwithsales andrespondedtoandformerSciosemployeeshavetestifiedbeforea
andmarketingof,andclinicaltrialsfor,RISPERDAL®(risperidone) grandjuryinSanFrancisco.Thequitamcomplaintswereunsealed
from1997to2002.Documentssubsequentto2002havealsobeen onFebruary19,2009.TheU.S.governmenthasintervenedinoneof
requested.Anadditionalsubpoenaseekinginformationaboutmar- thequitamactions,andfiledacomplaintagainstSciosandtheCom-
ketingofandadversereactionstoRISPERDAL®wasreceivedfrom panyinJune2009.SciosandJohnson&Johnsonhavefiledamotion
theU.S.Attorney’sOfficefortheEasternDistrictofPennsylvaniain todismissthequitamcomplaintfiledbythegovernment,andthat
November2005.Subpoenasseekingtestimonyfromvariouswit- motionwasdenied.Thecriminalinvestigationiscontinuinganddis-
nessesbeforeagrandjuryhavealsobeenreceived.Janssenis cussionsareunderwayinanefforttosettlethismatter.Whethera
cooperatinginrespondingtoongoingrequestsfordocuments settlementcanbereachedandonwhattermsisuncertain.
andwitnesses.Thegovernmentiscontinuingtoactivelyinvestigate InSeptember2005,theCompanyreceivedasubpoenafrom
thismatter.InFebruary2010,thegovernmentservedCivilInvestiga- theU.S.Attorney’sOffice,DistrictofMassachusetts,seekingdocu-
tiveDemandsseekingadditionalinformationrelatingtosalesand mentsrelatedtosalesandmarketingofeightdrugstoOmnicare,
marketingofRISPERDAL®andsalesandmarketingofINVEGA®. Inc.,amanagerofpharmaceuticalbenefitsforlong-termcarefacili-
InSeptember2004,OrthoBiotechInc.(OrthoBiotech)(now ties.TheJohnson&Johnsonsubsidiariesinvolvedrespondedtothe
COBI),receivedasubpoenafromtheU.S.OfficeofInspectorGen- subpoena.SeveralemployeesoftheCompany’spharmaceutical
eral’sDenver,Coloradofieldofficeseekingdocumentsdirectedto subsidiarieshavebeensubpoenaedtotestifybeforeagrandjury
thesalesandmarketingofPROCRIT®(Epoetinalfa)from1997 inconnectionwiththisinvestigation.InApril2009,theCompany
tothepresent,aswellastodealingswithU.S.OncologyInc.,a wasservedwiththecomplaintsintwocivilquitamcasesrelatedto
healthcareservicesnetworkforoncologists.OrthoBiotech(now marketingofprescriptiondrugstoOmnicare,Inc.OnJanuary15,
COBI)hasrespondedtothesubpoena.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 612010,thegovernmentfiledacomplaintinterveninginthecases. withinthepharmaceuticalsector.Becausethisisasectorinquiry,
ThecomplaintassertsclaimsunderthefederalFalseClaimsActand itisnotbasedonanyspecificallegationthattheCompanyhas
arelatedstatelawclaiminconnectionwiththemarketingofseveral violatedECcompetitionlaw.Theinquirybeganwithunannounced
drugstoOmnicare. raidsofasubstantialnumberofpharmaceuticalcompanies
InNovember2005,AmgenInc.(Amgen)filedsuitagainst throughoutEurope,includingJohnson&Johnsonaffiliates.InMarch
Hoffmann-LaRoche,Inc.(Roche)intheU.S.DistrictCourtforthe 2008,theECissueddetailedquestionnairestoapproximately100
DistrictofMassachusettsseekingadeclarationthattheRoche companies,includingJohnson&Johnsonaffiliates.InNovember
productCERA,whichRochehasindicateditwouldseektointroduce 2008,theECissuedapreliminaryreportsummarizingitsfindings.
intotheUnitedStates,infringesanumberofAmgenpatentscon- ThefinalreportwasissuedonJuly8,2009.
cerningEPO.AmgenlicensesEPOforsaleintheUnitedStatesto InMarch2008,theCompanyreceivedaletterrequestfrom
OrthoBiotech(nowCOBI)fornon-dialysisindications.Trialinthis theAttorneyGeneraloftheStateofMichigan.Therequestseeks
actionconcludedinOctober2007withaverdictinAmgen’sfavor, documentsandinformationrelatingtonominalpricetransactions.
findingthepatentsvalidandinfringed.Thejudgeissuedaprelimi- TheCompanyrespondedtotherequestandwillcooperatewiththe
naryinjunctionblockingtheCERAlaunch,andsubsequentlymade inquiry.
theinjunctionpermanent.TheFederalCircuitupheldtheentryofa InJune2008,theCompanyreceivedasubpoenafromthe
permanentinjunction.Thismatterhasbeensettledpursuanttoan UnitedStatesAttorney’sOfficefortheDistrictofMassachusetts
agreementbetweentheparties. relatingtothemarketingofbiliarystentsbytheCompany’sCordis
InFebruary2006,theCompanyreceivedasubpoenafromthe subsidiary.Cordisiscooperatinginrespondingtothesubpoena.
U.S.Securities&ExchangeCommission(SEC)requestingdocu- InSeptember2008,MultilanAG(Multilan),anindirectsub-
mentsrelatingtotheparticipationbyseveralJohnson&Johnson sidiaryofSchering-PloughCorporation,commencedarbitration
subsidiariesintheUnitedNationsIraqOilforFoodProgram.The againstJanssenPharmaceuticaNVforanallegedwrongfultermina-
subsidiariesarecooperatingwiththeSECandU.S.Departmentof tionofanagreementrelatingtopaymentsinconnectionwithtermi-
Justice(DOJ)inproducingresponsivedocuments. nationofcertainmarketingrights.Multilanseeksdeclaratoryrelief,
InFebruary2007,theCompanyvoluntarilydisclosedtothe specificperformanceanddamages.Thiscasewasrecentlysettled
DOJandtheSECthatsubsidiariesoutsidetheUnitedStatesare andachargewasrecordedtootherincome(expense),net,inthe
believedtohavemadeimproperpaymentsinconnectionwiththe fiscalfourthquarterof2009.
saleofmedicaldevicesintwosmall-marketcountries,whichpay- InFebruary2009,BasileaPharmaceuticaAG(Basilea)brought
mentsmayfallwithinthejurisdictionoftheForeignCorruptPrac- anarbitrationagainsttheCompanyandvariousaffiliatesalleging
ticesAct(FCPA).Inthecourseofcontinuingdialogueswiththe thattheCompanybreachedthe2005LicenseAgreementforcefto-
agencies,otherissuespotentiallyrisingtothelevelofFCPAviola- biproleby,amongotherthings,failingtosecureFDAapprovalofthe
tionsinadditionalmarketshavebeenbroughttotheattentionofthe cSSSI(skin)indicationandallegedlyfailingtoproperlydevelopthe
agenciesbytheCompany.TheCompanyhasprovidedandwillcon- pneumoniaindication.Basileaisseekingtorecoverdamagesanda
tinuetoprovideadditionalinformationtotheDOJandSEC,andwill declarationthattheCompanymateriallybreachedtheagreement.
cooperatewiththeagencies’reviewsofthesematters.Lawenforce- Thismatterhasbeenscheduledforanarbitrationhearingcom-
mentagenciesofanumberofothercountriesarealsopursuing mencinginJune2010followedbypost-trialsubmissions.
investigationsofmattersvoluntarilydisclosedbytheCompanyto InApril2009,theCompanyreceivedaHIPPAsubpoena
theDOJandSEC.Discussionsareunderwayinanefforttoresolve fromtheU.S.Attorney’sOfficefortheDistrictofMassachusetts
thesematters,andtheIraqOilforFoodmatterreferencedabove,but (Boston)seekinginformationregardingtheCompany’sfinancial
whetheragreementcanbereachedandonwhattermsisuncertain. relationshipwithseveralpsychiatrists.TheCompanyisresponding
InMarch2007,theCompanyreceivedseparatesubpoenas tothisrequest.
fromtheU.S.Attorney’sOfficeinPhiladelphia,theU.S.Attorney’s InApril2009,Ortho-ClinicalDiagnostics,Inc.(OCD)received
OfficeinBostonandtheU.S.Attorney’sOfficeinSanFrancisco.The agrandjurysubpoenafromtheU.S.DepartmentofJustice,
subpoenasrelatetoinvestigationsbythesethreeofficesreferenced AntitrustDivision,requestingdocumentsandinformationforthe
aboveconcerning,respectively,salesandmarketingofRISPERDAL® periodbeginningSeptember1,2000throughthepresent,pertaining
byJanssen(nowOMJPI),TOPAMAX®byOrtho-McNeil(now toaninvestigationofallegedviolationsoftheantitrustlawsinthe
OMJPI)andNATRECOR®byScios.Thesubpoenasrequestinforma- bloodreagentsindustry.TheCompanyisintheprocessofcomply-
tionregardingtheCompany’scorporatesupervisionandoversight ingwiththesubpoena.Intheweeksfollowingthepublicannounce-
ofthesethreesubsidiaries,includingtheirsalesandmarketingof mentthatOCDhadreceivedasubpoenafromtheAntitrust
thesedrugs.TheCompanyrespondedtotheserequests.Inaddition, Division,multipleclassactioncomplaintswerefiled.Thevarious
theU.S.Attorney’sOfficeinBostonhasissuedsubpoenasforgrand caseswereconsolidatedforpre-trialpurposesintheEastern
jurytestimonytoseveralemployeesofJohnson&Johnson. DistrictofPennsylvania.
InMay2007,theNewYorkStateAttorneyGeneralissueda InMay2009,theNewJerseyAttorneyGeneralissuedasub-
subpoenaseekinginformationrelatingtothemarketingandsafety poenatoDePuyOrthopaedics,Inc.,seekinginformationregarding
ofPROCRIT®.TheCompanyisrespondingtotheserequests. thefinancialinterestofclinicalinvestigatorswhoperformedclinical
InApril2007,theCompanyreceivedtwosubpoenasfromthe studiesforDePuyOrthopaedics,Inc.andDePuySpine,Inc.The
OfficeoftheAttorneyGeneraloftheStateofDelaware.Thesub- Companyisrespondingtotheserequests.
poenasseekdocumentsandinformationrelatingtonominalpricing InMay2009,COBIcommencedanarbitrationproceeding
agreements.Forpurposesofthesubpoenas,nominalpricingagree- beforetheAmericanArbitrationAssociationagainstSchering-
mentsaredefinedasagreementsunderwhichtheCompanyagreed PloughCorporationanditssubsidiarySchering-Plough(Ireland)
toprovideapharmaceuticalproductforlessthantenpercentofthe Company(collectively,Schering-Plough).COBIandSchering-
AverageManufacturerPricefortheproduct.TheCompany Plougharepartiestoaseriesofagreements(theDistribution
respondedtotheserequests.
InJanuary2008,theEuropeanCommission(“EC”)beganan
industry-wideantitrustinquiryconcerningcompetitiveconditions
62 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTAgreements)thatgrantSchering-Ploughtheexclusiverighttodis- of$362millionand$76millionrelatedtoleaseholdandcontract
tributethedrugsREMICADE®andSIMPONI™worldwide,except obligations.The$362millionofassetwrite-offsrelatetoinventory
withintheUnitedStates,Japan,Taiwan,Indonesia,andthePeople’s of$113million(recordedincostofproductssold),property,plant
RepublicofChina(includingHongKong)(the“Territory”).COBI andequipmentof$107million,intangibleassetsof$81millionand
distributesREMICADE®andSIMPONI™,thenextgeneration otherassetsof$61million.Additionally,aspartofthisprogramthe
treatment,withintheUnitedStates.Inthearbitration,COBI Companyplanstoeliminateapproximately7,500positionsofwhich
seeksadeclarationthattheagreementandmergerbetween approximately700havebeeneliminatedsincetherestructuring
Merck&Co.,Inc.(Merck)andSchering-Ploughconstitutesa wasannounced.
changeofcontrolunderthetermsoftheDistributionAgreements Thefollowingtablesummarizestheseverancechargesandthe
thatpermitsCOBItoterminatetheAgreements.Thetermination associatedspendingforthefiscalyearended2009:
oftheDistributionAgreementswouldreturntoCOBItheright
Asset
todistributeREMICADE®andSIMPONI™withintheTerritory.
(DollarsinMillions) Severance Write-Offs Other Total
Schering-PloughhasfiledaresponsetoCOBI’sarbitrationdemand
2009restructuringcharge $748 362 76 1,186
thatdeniesthatithasundergoneachangeofcontrol.Thearbitra-
Currentyearactivity (62) (149) (28) (239)
torshavebeenselectedandthematterwillbeproceedingto
Reservebalance,
arbitrationinlateSeptember2010.
January3,2010* $686 213 48 947
InDecember2009,theStateofIsrael(ShebaMedicalCenter)
filedalawsuitagainstthreeOmrixentities.Inthelawsuit,theState *Cashoutlaysforseveranceareexpectedtobesubstantiallypaidoutoverthenext12to18
monthsinaccordancewiththeCompany’splansandlocallaws.
claimedthatanemployeeofagovernment-ownedhospitalwasthe
inventoronseveralpatentsrelatedtofibringluetechnology,thathe Foradditionalinformationontherestructuringasitrelatestothe
developedwhilehewasagovernmentemployee.TheStateclaims segments,seeNote18.
thathehadnorighttotransferanyintellectualpropertytoOmrix Inthethirdquarterof2007,theCompanyannouncedrestruc-
becauseitbelongstotheState.TheStateisseekingdamagesplus turinginitiativesinanefforttoimproveitsoverallcoststructure.
royaltyonQUIXIL™andEVICEL™or,alternatively,transferofthe Thisactionwastakentooffsettheanticipatednegativeimpacts
patentstotheState. associatedwithgenericcompetitioninthePharmaceuticalsegment
InrecentyearstheCompanyhasreceivednumerousrequests andchallengesinthedrug-elutingstentmarket.TheCompany’s
fromavarietyofUnitedStatesCongressionalCommitteestopro- Pharmaceuticalssegmenthasreduceditscostbasebyconsolidat-
duceinformationrelevanttoongoingcongressionalinquiries.Itis ingcertainoperations,whilecontinuingtoinvestinrecently
theCompany’spolicytocooperatewiththeseinquiriesbyproduc- launchedproductsanditslate-stagepipelineofnewproducts.The
ingtherequestedinformation. Cordisfranchisehasmovedtoamoreintegratedbusinessmodelto
Withrespecttoalltheabovematters,theCompanyandits addressthemarketchangesunderwaywithdrug-elutingstentsand
subsidiariesarevigorouslycontestingtheallegationsasserted tobetterservethebroadspectrumofitspatients’cardiovascular
againstthemandotherwisepursuingdefensestomaximizethe needs,whilereducingitscostbase.TheCompanyacceleratedsteps
prospectofsuccess.TheCompanyanditssubsidiariesinvolvedin tostandardizeandstreamlinecertainaspectsofitsenterprise-wide
thesematterscontinuallyevaluatetheirstrategiesinmanaging functionssuchashumanresources,financeandinformationtech-
thesemattersand,whereappropriate,pursuesettlementsandother nologytosupportgrowthacrossthebusiness,whilealsoleveraging
resolutionswherethoseareinthebestinterestoftheCompany. itsscalemoreeffectivelyinareassuchasprocurementtobenefitits
TheCompanyisalsoinvolvedinanumberofotherpatent, operatingcompanies.Additionally,aspartofthisprogramthe
trademarkandotherlawsuitsincidentaltoitsbusiness.Theulti- Companyeliminatedapproximately4,600positions.
matelegalandfinancialliabilityoftheCompanyinrespecttoall TheCompanyrecorded$745millioninrelatedpre-taxcharges
claims,lawsuitsandproceedingsreferredtoabovecannotbeesti- duringthefiscalthirdquarterof2007,ofwhich,approximately$500
matedwithanycertainty.However,intheCompany’sopinion,based millionofthepre-taxrestructuringchargesrequiredcashpayments.
onitsexaminationofthesematters,itsexperiencetodateanddis- The$745millionofrestructuringchargesconsistsofseverancecosts
cussionswithcounsel,theultimateoutcomeoflegalproceedings, of$450million,assetwrite-offsof$272millionand$23million
netofliabilitiesaccruedintheCompany’sbalancesheet,isnot relatedtoleaseholdobligations.The$272millionofassetwrite-offs
expectedtohaveamaterialadverseeffectontheCompany’sfinan- relatetoproperty,plantandequipmentof$166million,intangible
cialcondition,althoughtheresolutioninanyreportingperiodofone assetsof$48millionandotherassetsof$58million.Therestructur-
ormoreofthesematterscouldhaveasignificantimpactonthe inginitiativeannouncedin2007hasbeencompleted.
Company’sresultsofoperationsandcashflowsforthatperiod.
23.SubsequentEvents
22.Restructuring
OnJanuary20,2010,theCompanycompletedtheacquisitionof
Inthefourthquarterof2009,theCompanyannouncedglobal AcclarentInc.foranetpurchasepriceofapproximately$785mil-
restructuringinitiativesdesignedtostrengthentheCompany’sposi- lion.AcclarentInc.isamedicaltechnologycompanydedicatedto
tionasoneoftheworld’sleadingglobalhealthcarecompanies.This designing,developingandcommercializingdevicesthataddress
programwillallowtheCompanytoinvestinnewgrowthplatforms; conditionsaffectingtheear,noseandthroat.
ensurethesuccessfullaunchofitsmanynewproductsandcontin- TheCompanyhasperformedanevaluationofsubsequent
uedgrowthofitscorebusinesses;andprovideflexibilitytoadjustto eventsthroughMarch1,2010,thedatetheCompanyissuedthese
thechangedandevolvingglobalenvironment. financialstatements.
Duringthefiscalfourthquarterof2009,theCompany
recorded$1.2billioninrelatedpre-taxchargesofwhich,approxi-
mately$830millionofthepre-taxrestructuringchargesare
expectedtorequirecashpayments.The$1.2billionofrestructuring
chargesconsistsofseverancecostsof$748million,assetwrite-offs
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 63ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm
TotheShareholdersandBoardofDirectorsofJohnson&Johnson: controlbasedontheassessedrisk.Ourauditsalsoincludedper-
formingsuchotherproceduresasweconsiderednecessaryinthe
Inouropinion,theaccompanyingconsolidatedbalancesheetsand circumstances.Webelievethatourauditsprovideareasonable
therelatedconsolidatedstatementsofearnings,statementsof basisforouropinions.
equity,andstatementsofcashflowspresentfairly,inallmaterial AsdiscussedinNote1totheConsolidatedFinancialStatements,
respects,thefinancialpositionofJohnson&Johnsonanditssub- theCompanychangedthemannerinwhichitaccountsforbusiness
sidiaries(“theCompany”)atJanuary3,2010andDecember28, combinationsin2009.
2008,andtheresultsoftheiroperationsandtheircashflowsfor Acompany’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingisa
eachofthethreeyearsintheperiodendedJanuary3,2010incon- processdesignedtoprovidereasonableassuranceregardingthe
formitywithaccountingprinciplesgenerallyacceptedintheUnited reliabilityoffinancialreportingandthepreparationoffinancial
StatesofAmerica.Alsoinouropinion,theCompanymaintained,in statementsforexternalpurposesinaccordancewithgenerally
allmaterialrespects,effectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreport- acceptedaccountingprinciples.Acompany’sinternalcontrolover
ingasofJanuary3,2010,basedoncriteriaestablishedinInternal financialreportingincludesthosepoliciesandproceduresthat(i)
Control—IntegratedFrameworkissuedbytheCommitteeofSpon- pertaintothemaintenanceofrecordsthat,inreasonabledetail,
soringOrganizationsoftheTreadwayCommission(COSO).The accuratelyandfairlyreflectthetransactionsanddispositionsofthe
Company’smanagementisresponsibleforthesefinancialstate- assetsofthecompany;(ii)providereasonableassurancethattrans-
ments,formaintainingeffectiveinternalcontroloverfinancial actionsarerecordedasnecessarytopermitpreparationoffinancial
reportingandforitsassessmentoftheeffectivenessofinternalcon- statementsinaccordancewithgenerallyacceptedaccountingprin-
troloverfinancialreporting,includedintheaccompanying,“Man- ciples,andthatreceiptsandexpendituresofthecompanyarebeing
agement’sReportonInternalControloverFinancialReporting.”Our madeonlyinaccordancewithauthorizationsofmanagementand
responsibilityistoexpressopinionsonthesefinancialstatements directorsofthecompany;and(iii)providereasonableassurance
andontheCompany’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting regardingpreventionortimelydetectionofunauthorizedacquisi-
basedonourintegratedaudits.Weconductedourauditsinaccor- tion,use,ordispositionofthecompany’sassetsthatcouldhavea
dancewiththestandardsofthePublicCompanyAccountingOver- materialeffectonthefinancialstatements.
sightBoard(UnitedStates).Thosestandardsrequirethatweplan Becauseofitsinherentlimitations,internalcontroloverfinan-
andperformtheauditstoobtainreasonableassuranceabout cialreportingmaynotpreventordetectmisstatements.Also,pro-
whetherthefinancialstatementsarefreeofmaterialmisstatement jectionsofanyevaluationofeffectivenesstofutureperiodsare
andwhethereffectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingwas subjecttotheriskthatcontrolsmaybecomeinadequatebecauseof
maintainedinallmaterialrespects.Ourauditsofthefinancialstate- changesinconditions,orthatthedegreeofcompliancewiththe
mentsincludedexamining,onatestbasis,evidencesupportingthe policiesorproceduresmaydeteriorate.
amountsanddisclosuresinthefinancialstatements,assessingthe
accountingprinciplesusedandsignificantestimatesmadebyman-
agement,andevaluatingtheoverallfinancialstatementpresenta-
tion.Ourauditofinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingincluded
obtaininganunderstandingofinternalcontroloverfinancialreport-
ing,assessingtheriskthatamaterialweaknessexists,andtesting NewYork,NewYork
andevaluatingthedesignandoperatingeffectivenessofinternal March1,2010
64 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2009 ANNUAL REPORTManagement’sReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReporting
UnderSection404oftheSarbanes-OxleyActof2002,manage- establishedbytheCommitteeofSponsoringOrganizationsofthe
mentisrequiredtoassesstheeffectivenessoftheCompany’sinter- TreadwayCommission(COSO)in“InternalControl-Integrated
nalcontroloverfinancialreportingasoftheendofeachfiscalyear Framework.”Thesecriteriaareintheareasofcontrolenvironment,
andreport,basedonthatassessment,whethertheCompany’s riskassessment,controlactivities,informationandcommunication,
internalcontroloverfinancialreportingiseffective. andmonitoring.TheCompany’sassessmentincludedextensive
ManagementoftheCompanyisresponsibleforestablishing documenting,evaluatingandtestingthedesignandoperatingeffec-
andmaintainingadequateinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting. tivenessofitsinternalcontrolsoverfinancialreporting.
TheCompany’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingisdesigned BasedontheCompany’sprocessesandassessment,as
toprovidereasonableassuranceastothereliabilityoftheCompany’s describedabove,managementhasconcludedthat,asofJanuary3,
financialreportingandthepreparationofexternalfinancialstate- 2010,theCompany’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting
mentsinaccordancewithgenerallyacceptedaccountingprinciples. waseffective.
Internalcontrolsoverfinancialreporting,nomatterhowwell TheeffectivenessoftheCompany’sinternalcontrolover
designed,haveinherentlimitations.Therefore,internalcontrolover financialreportingasofJanuary3,2010hasbeenauditedby
financialreportingdeterminedtobeeffectivecanprovideonly PricewaterhouseCoopersLLP,anindependentregisteredpublic
reasonableassurancewithrespecttofinancialstatementprepara- accountingfirm,asstatedintheirreport,whichappearsherein.
tionandmaynotpreventordetectallmisstatements.Moreover,
projectionsofanyevaluationofeffectivenesstofutureperiodsare
subjecttotheriskthatcontrolsmaybecomeinadequatebecause
ofchangesinconditions,orthatthedegreeofcompliancewiththe
policiesorproceduresmaydeteriorate.
TheCompany’smanagementhasassessedtheeffectivenessof WilliamC.Weldon DominicJ.Caruso
theCompany’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingasofJanuary Chairman,BoardofDirectors, VicePresident,Finance,
3,2010.Inmakingthisassessment,theCompanyusedthecriteria andChiefExecutiveOfficer andChiefFinancialOfficer
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 65SummaryofOperationsandStatisticalData
1999-2009
(DollarsinMillionsExceptPerShareFigures) 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
Salestocustomer—U.S. $30,889 32,309 32,444 29,775 28,377 27,770 25,274 22,455 19,825 17,316 15,532
Salestocustomer—International 31,008 31,438 28,651 23,549 22,137 19,578 16,588 13,843 12,492 11,856 11,825
Totalsales 61,897 63,747 61,095 53,324 50,514 47,348 41,862 36,298 32,317 29,172 27,357
Costofproductssold 18,447 18,511 17,751 15,057 14,010 13,474 12,231 10,498 9,622 8,987 8,559
Selling,marketingandadministrativeexpenses 19,801 21,490 20,451 17,433 17,211 16,174 14,463 12,520 11,510 10,675 10,182
Researchexpense 6,986 7,577 7,680 7,125 6,462 5,344 4,834 4,094 3,704 3,186 2,821
Purchasedin-processresearchanddevelopment — 181 807 559 362 18 918 189 105 66 —
Interestincome (90) (361) (452) (829) (487) (195) (177) (256) (456) (429) (266)
Interestexpense,netofportioncapitalized 451 435 296 63 54 187 207 160 153 204 255
Other(income)expense,net (526) (1,015) 534 (671) (214) 15 (385) 294 185 (94) 119
Restructuring 1,073 — 745 — — — — — — — —
46,142 46,818 47,812 38,737 37,398 35,017 32,091 27,499 24,823 22,595 21,670
Earningsbeforeprovisionfortaxesonincome 15,755 16,929 13,283 14,587 13,116 12,331 9,771 8,799 7,494 6,577 5,687
Provisionfortaxesonincome 3,489 3,980 2,707 3,534 3,056 4,151 2,923 2,522 2,089 1,813 1,554
Netearnings 12,266 12,949 10,576 11,053 10,060 8,180 6,848 6,277 5,405 4,764 4,133
Percentofsalestocustomers 19.8 20.3 17.3 20.7 19.9 17.3 16.4 17.3 16.7 16.3 15.1
Dilutednetearningspershareofcommonstock $ 4.40 4.57 3.63 3.73 3.35 2.74 2.29 2.06 1.75 1.55 1.34
Percentreturnonaverageshareholders’equity 26.4 30.2 25.6 28.3 28.2 27.3 27.1 26.4 24.0 25.3 26.0
Percentincrease(decrease)overpreviousyear:
Salestocustomers (2.9) 4.3 14.6 5.6 6.7 13.1 15.3 12.3 10.8 6.6 14.9
Dilutednetearningspershare (3.7) 25.9 (2.7) 11.3 22.3 19.7 11.2 17.7 12.9 15.7 34.0
Supplementaryexpensedata:
Costofmaterialsandservices(1) $27,651 29,346 27,967 22,912 22,328 21,053 18,568 16,540 15,333 14,113 13,922
Totalemploymentcosts 14,587 14,523 14,571 13,444 12,364 11,581 10,542 8,942 8,153 7,376 6,727
Depreciationandamortization 2,774 2,832 2,777 2,177 2,093 2,124 1,869 1,662 1,605 1,592 1,510
Maintenanceandrepairs(2) 567 583 483 506 510 462 395 360 372 327 322
Totaltaxexpense(3) 5,052 5,558 4,177 4,857 4,285 5,215 3,890 3,325 2,854 2,517 2,221
Supplementarybalancesheetdata:
Property,plantandequipment,net 14,759 14,365 14,185 13,044 10,830 10,436 9,846 8,710 7,719 7,409 7,155
Additionstoproperty,plantandequipment 2,365 3,066 2,942 2,666 2,632 2,175 2,262 2,099 1,731 1,689 1,822
Totalassets 94,682 84,912 80,954 70,556 58,864 54,039 48,858 40,984 38,771 34,435 31,163
Long-termdebt 8,223 8,120 7,074 2,014 2,017 2,565 2,955 2,022 2,217 3,163 3,429
Operatingcashflow 16,571 14,972 15,022 14,248 11,799 11,089 10,571 8,135 8,781 6,889 5,913
Commonstockinformation
Dividendspaidpershare $1.930 1.795 1.620 1.455 1.275 1.095 0.925 0.795 0.700 0.620 0.550
Shareholders’equitypershare $18.37 15.35 15.25 13.59 13.01 10.95 9.25 7.79 8.05 6.82 5.73
Marketpricepershare(year-endclose) $64.41 58.56 67.38 66.02 60.10 63.42 50.62 53.11 59.86 52.53 46.63
Averagesharesoutstanding(millions)—basic 2,759.5 2,802.5 2,882.9 2,936.4 2,973.9 2,968.4 2,968.1 2,998.3 3,033.8 2,993.5 2,978.2
—diluted 2,789.1 2,835.6 2,910.7 2,961.0 3,002.8 2,992.7 2,995.1 3,049.1 3,089.3 3,075.2 3,090.4
Employees(thousands) 115.5 118.7 119.2 122.2 115.6 109.9 110.6 108.3 101.8 100.9 99.8
(1)Netofinterestandotherincome.
(2)Alsoincludedincostofmaterialsandservicescategory.
(3)Includestaxesonincome,payroll,propertyandotherbusinesstaxes.
66 SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS AND STATISTICAL DATAShareholderReturnPerformanceGraphs
SHAREHOLODER RETURN PERFORMANCE GRAPHS 67ReconciliationofNon-GAAPFinancialMeasures
ThetablesbelowareprovidedtoreconcilecertainfinancialdisclosuresintheLettertoShareholders,page1.
’09vs.’08 ’08vs.’07
(DollarsinMillionsExceptPerShareData) 2009 2008 2007 %Change %Change
Earningsbeforeprovisionfortaxesonincome—asreported $15,755 16,929 13,283 (6.9)% 27.4
Purchasedin-processresearch&development(IPR&D) — 181 807
Netgainonfourthquarterlitigation (386) (379) —
Restructuringexpense 1,186 — 745
NATRECOR®intangibleassetwrite-down — — 678
Earningsbeforeprovisionfortaxesonincome—asadjusted $16,555 16,731 15,513 (1.1)% 7.9
NetEarnings—asreported $12,266 12,949 10,576 (5.3)% 22.4
Purchasedin-processresearch&development(IPR&D) — 181 807
Netgainonfourthquarterlitigation (212) (229) —
Restructuringexpense 852 — 528
NATRECOR®intangibleassetwrite-down — — 441
Internationaltaxgainonrestructuring — — (267)
NetEarnings—asadjusted $12,906 12,901 12,085 0.0% 6.8
Dilutednetearningspershare—asreported $ 4.40 4.57 3.63 (3.7)% 25.9
Purchasedin-processresearch&development(IPR&D) — 0.06 0.28
Netgainonfourthquarterlitigation (0.08) (0.08) —
Restructuringexpense 0.31 — 0.18
NATRECOR®intangibleassetwrite-down — — 0.15
Internationaltaxgainonrestructuring — — (0.09)
Dilutednetearningspershare—asadjusted $ 4.63 4.55 4.15 1.8% 9.6
’09vs.’08 ’08vs.’07
(DollarsinMillions) 2009 2008 2007 %Change %Change
Netcashflowsfromoperatingactivities $16,571 14,972 15,022
Additionstoproperty,plantandequipment (2,365) (3,066) (2,942)
FreeCashFlow $14,206 11,906 12,080 19.3 (1.4)
TheCompanybelievesinvestorsgainadditionalperspectiveofunderlyingbusinesstrendsandresultsbyprovidingfreecashflow,ameasure
ofearningsbeforetax,netearningsanddilutednetearningspersharethatexcludesIPR&Dchargesandotherspecialitemsinordertoeval-
uateongoingbusinessoperations.Thesenon-GAAPfinancialmeasuresshouldnotbeconsideredreplacementsfor,andshouldberead
togetherwith,themostcomparableGAAPfinancialmeasures.
68 RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURESPRiNCiP al OffiCE The Company is required to file as an Exhibit diVidENd REiNVESTMENT PlaN
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza to its Form 10-K for each fiscal year certifica- The Plan allows for full or partial
New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933 tions under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley dividend reinvestment, and additional monthly
(732) 524-0400 Act signed by the Chief Executive Officer cash investments up to $50,000 per year,
and the Chief Financial Officer. In addition, in Johnson & Johnson common stock without
aNNual MEETiNg
the Company is required to submit a certifica- brokerage commissions or service charges
The Annual Meeting of Shareholders will take
tion signed by the Chief Executive Officer on stock purchases. If you are interested in
place April 22, 2010, at the Hyatt Regency
to the New York Stock Exchange within 30 days participating in the Plan and need an authoriza-
New Brunswick, 2 Albany Street, New Brunswick,
following the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. tion form and/or more information, please call
New Jersey. The meeting will convene at 10 a.m.
Copies of the certifications filed for previous Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
All shareholders are cordially invited to attend.
years are posted on the Company’s Corporate at (800) 328-9033 or (781) 575-2718
A formal Notice of Meeting, Proxy Statement
Governance web site, and future certifications (outside the U.S.).
and Proxy have been sent to shareholders.
will be posted promptly upon filing.
HEaRiNg iMP aiREd
CORPORaTE gOVERNaNCE
COMMON STOCk Shareholders who have inquiries regarding
Copies of the Company’s 2009 Annual Report
Listed on New York Stock Exchange stock-related matters can communicate directly
on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q
Stock Symbol JNJ with Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
and Current Reports on Form 8-K to
via a telecommunications device (TDD).
the Securities and Exchange Commission, SHaREHOldER REla TiONS CONTaCT
The telephone number for this service is
Proxy Statement, and this Annual Report Steven M. Rosenberg
(800) 952-9245 or (781) 575-2692
are available online at www.investor.jnj.com/ Corporate Secretary
(outside the U.S.).
sec-filings.cfm, or to shareholders without (732) 524-2455
charge upon written request to the Secretary at Registered shareholders who wish to receive
iNVESTOR RElaTiONS CONTaCT
the Company’s principal address or by calling electronic notice of online access to future
Louise Mehrotra
(800) 950-5089. annual reports and proxy materials instead
Vice President, Investor Relations
of paper copies may register online:
In addition, on the Company’s (800) 950-5089
Corporate Governance web site at (732) 524-6492 www.computershare-na.com/green
www.investor.jnj.com/governance.cfm, Beneficial Johnson & Johnson shareholders
TRaNSfER a gENT aNd RE giSTRaR
shareholders can view the Company’s Questions regarding stock holdings, (you own shares through a broker or bank) can
Principles of Corporate Governance, certificate replacement/transfer, dividends register for online delivery of
Charters of the Audit Committee, and address changes should be directed to: materials by going to:
Compensation & Benefits Committee Computershare Trust Company, N.A. http://enroll.icsdelivery.com/jnj
and Nominating & Corporate Governance 250 Royall Street
JOHNSON & JOHNSON ON THE WEB
Committee, Policy on Business Conduct Canton, MA 02021
Company website: www.jnj.com
for Employees and Code of Business (800) 328-9033 or
Conduct & Ethics for Members of the Board (781) 575-2718 (outside the U.S.) Online annual report:
of Directors and Executive Officers. www.computershare.com www.investor.jnj.com/ 2009annualreport
Copies of these documents are available Company blog: www.jnjbtw.com
to shareholders without charge upon written The paper used in this publication is made from
Johnson & Johnson history blog:
30% and 100% post-consumer recycled fiber, is
request to the Secretary at the Company’s Forest Stewardship Council certified for chain of custody www.kilmerhouse.com
principal address. and was manufactured with green energy credits for purchase
of electricity generated from renewable-energy sources Facebook: Follow the Johnson & Johnson
such as wind and low-impact hydro resources.
Network
Twitter: @JNJComm
YouTube: www.youtube.com/JNJhealth
©Johnson & Johnson 2010
THE fOllOWiNg TRadEMaRk S aNd TRadE NaMES Of JOHNSON & JOHNSON aNd iTS affilia TEd COMPaNiES aPPEaR iN THiS REPORT :
1-Day aCUVUE TrUEyE, aCCLarENT, aCIPHEX/ParIET, aCTIVE NaTUraLS, aCTIVE NaTUraLS INSTITUTE, aCTIVE PHOTOBarrIEr COMPLEX, aCUVUE TrUEyE, aVEENO, BIOSENSE
WEBSTEr, BX VELOCITy, CarTO, CELLSEarCH, CENTOCOr OrTHO BIOTECH, CENTOCOr rESEarCH & DEVELOPMENT, CHarITÉ, CLEaN & CLEar, CONCErTa, COrDIS, COUGar
BIOTECHNOLOGy, CyPHEr, DEPUy, DEPUy INSTITUTE, DEPUy OrTHOPaEDICS, DaBaO, DIaBETES CarE INSTITUTE, DUraGESIC, EarTHWarDS, ENSEaL, ETHICON, ETHICON
ENDO-SUrGEry, EVICEL, FEVErFEW PFE, FINSBUry OrTHOPaEDICS, FLEX HD, GLOSTEr EUrOPE, HarMONIC, HELIOPLEX, INTELENCE, INVEGa, INVEGa SUSTENNa, JaNSSEN
aLZHEIMEr IMMUNOTHEraPy, JaNSSEN-CILaG, JOHNSON & JOHNSON, JOHNSON & JOHNSON CONSUMEr GrOUP OF COMPaNIES, JOHNSON & JOHNSON DIaBETES INSTITUTE,
JOHNSON & JOHNSON PHarMaCEUTICaL rESEarCH & DEVELOPMENT, JOHNSON’S, LE PETIT MarSEILLaIS, LEVaQUIN/FLOXIN, LIFESCaN, LISTErINE, MCNEIL NUTrITIONaLS,
MEMOryGEL, MENTOr, NaTrECOr, NEUTrOGENa, NUCyNTa, OaSyS, OrTHO-CLINICaL DIaGNOSTICS, OrTHO EVra, OrTHO TrI-CyCLEN LO, PINNaCLE COMPLETE, PrEZISTa,
PrILIGy, PrOCrIT/EPrEX, PrOPULSID, QUIXIL, raZaDyNE, rEaCH, rEaLIZE, rEMICaDE, rEOPrO, rISPErDaL, rISPErDaL CONSTa, rOC, SEDaSyS, SILENT, SIMPONI, SKIN ID, SPLENDa,
STELara, SUN CrySTaLS, SUrGIFLO, TIBOTEC, TIBOTEC PHarMaCEUTICaLS, TIBOTEC-VIrCO VIrOLOGy BVBa, TOPaMaX, TrU-VU, ULTraM Er, VaNIa EXPaNSION, VErIDEX,
THE VISION CarE INSTITUTE, XIaN-JaNSSEN PHarMaCEUTICaL
THE fOllOWiNg TRadEMaRk S aNd TRadE NaMES Of OTHER COMP aNiES alSO aPPEaR iN THiS REPORT :
academy for Educational Development, american academy of Dermatology, american Society of Plastic Surgeons, Bayer HealthCare aG (rivaroxaban), Children Without Worms, Cleveland Clinic,
Crucell, Elan, Forest Stewardship Council, Gilead Sciences, Global alliance for TB Drug Development, Good Housekeeping, Grünenthal, Mayo Clinic, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center,
Merck & Co., Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma, National Children’s Oral Health Foundation, Pfizer, Prix Galien, royal Marsden Hospital, Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics, Task Force for Global Health,
TerraCycle, Tianjin Medical University Cancer Hospital, U.S. agency for International Development, U.S. Food and Drug administration, Velcade (Millennium: The Takeda Oncology Company),
World Wildlife Fund
1NUCYNTA® is co-developed with Grünenthal GmbH.
2Centocor Ortho Biotech, Inc. has marketing rights for REMICADE® in the U.S., while Xian-Janssen Pharmaceutical, Ltd. markets the product in China and Janssen-Cilag in Hong Kong.
Distribution agreements are in place with Merck & Co., Inc. and Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation in other markets throughout the world.
CORPORATE AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATIONOUR C R E DO
We believe our first responsibility is to the doctors, nurses and patients, to mothers
and fathers and all others who use our products and services. In meeting their needs,
everything we do must be of high quality. We must constantly strive to reduce our costs in order
to maintain reasonable prices. Customers’ orders must be serviced promptly and accurately.
Our suppliers and distributors must have an opportunity to make a fair profit.
We are responsible to our employees, the men and women who work with us
throughout the world. Everyone must be considered as an individual. We must respect their
dignity and recognize their merit. They must have a sense of security in their jobs.
Compensation must be fair and adequate, and working conditions clean, orderly and safe.
We must be mindful of ways to help our employees fulfill their family responsibilities.
Employees must feel free to make suggestions and complaints. There must be equal opportunity
for employment, development and advancement for those qualified. We must provide
competent management, and their actions must be just and ethical.
We are responsible to the communities in which we live and work and to the world community
as well. We must be good citizens—support good works and charities and bear our
fair share of taxes. We must encourage civic improvements and better health and education.
We must maintain in good order the property we are privileged to use,
protecting the environment and natural resources.
Our final responsibility is to our stockholders. Business must make a sound profit.
We must experiment with new ideas. Research must be carried on, innovative programs
developed and mistakes paid for. New equipment must be purchased, new facilities provided and
new products launched. Reserves must be created to provide for adverse times.
When we operate according to these principles, the stockholders should realize a fair return.