ANNUAL REPOR t 2011Johnson & Johnson will continue to
bring meaningful innovations to people
around the world so they can live
better and healthier lives.
We are deeply committed and dedicated
to the people who use our products, our employees,
the communities in which we live and work,
and you, our shareholders.
Most important, we will never lose sight
of who we are.
ON tHE COVER Matt Cox, who has type 1 diabetes and uses the waterproof ANIMAS® VIBE™ insulin pump, swam an English Channel
relay to raise money for the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation. Matt wants to show his son, Jack, who also has type 1 diabetes, that
the condition need not hold him back in life. Read Matt’s story on page 16.CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
To Our Shareholders
T
hroughout our annual report this year, you’ll read the severe economic decline; the tightening of consumer
about how Johnson & Johnson is bringing meaningful spending and health care budgets; over-the-counter (OTC)
innovation to our patients and customers, and making product quality issues at McNeil Consumer Healthcare and
a difference in their lives in a personal way—from the recall of the DePuy ASR™ Hip System.
Brunhilde Wecker, who made a full recovery from her stroke Our company was severely tested.
thanks to our new blood clot retrieval and removal device, In managing through this stretch, we relied heavily on the resolve
to our own Bill Hait, an oncologist whose vision and insights of our people and on our time-tested business model: our broad
helped accelerate the approval of a wholly new treatment for base in health care, our decentralized management structure,
prostate cancer. managing for the long term and the values set forth in Our Credo.
These stories remind us why health care is such a rewarding We made necessary restructurings to our business to manage
endeavor. They excite me about the future of Johnson & Johnson. our cost structure, simplify our operations, and ensure the most
Over the past few years, we have navigated steadily through a efficient use of our capital for the long-term benefit of patients
series of significant challenges, keeping a long-term perspective, and shareholders.
maintaining a disciplined approach to Our management team and employees
managing our investments for growth and took critical actions to preserve the core
our portfolio of broadly based businesses, values and strengths of our business.
and staying true to our operating model and We remained committed to retaining the
values. We have turned the corner on a trust of our patients and customers, taking
particularly difficult period. responsibility and instituting new measures
In 2011, the year Johnson & Johnson to ensure that our products live up to the
celebrated its 125th anniversary, we high quality standards that our customers
returned to sales growth, launched a expect and deserve.
number of innovative new products to As 2011 came to a close, we moved through
address unmet health care needs across the a turning point. The headwinds from patent
globe, and advanced our pipelines, which expirations, tough portfolio choices, litigation
today are among the best in the industry. matters and OTC product quality issues had
We strengthened our product portfolios been, or were being, addressed.
and leadership positions in many areas, At the same time, our continued
including immunology, oncology, surgical William C. WeldOn investments in research and development
Chairman, Board of Directors, and
devices and emerging markets. And we (R&D), equaling nearly $37 billion over the
Chief Executive Officer
focused on scientific innovation to maintain past five years, yielded nine major approvals
or build share in other key growth markets. for new pharmaceutical products in the
We are delivering meaningful innovations in health care and United States—including STELARA® (ustekinumab) and SIMPONI®
building a more agile company to seize market opportunities. (golimumab) in immunology; PREZISTA® (darunavir) and
All the while, we’ve remained committed to Our Credo and the INTELENCE® (etravirine) in HIV; ZYTIGA® (abiraterone acetate) in
long-held values that have enabled us to succeed now for decades. oncology; and XARELTO® (rivaroxaban) in cardiovascular disease.
Though we continue to face difficult and uncertain The emphasis we place on R&D has also led to exciting
macroeconomic conditions, our ongoing investments have us innovations in our Medical Devices and Diagnostics (MD&D) and
well positioned to grow and increase our market leadership in Consumer platforms, such as contact lenses, electrophysiology,
one of the most important and rewarding industries in the world advanced energy, biosurgicals, oral care and skin care.
while delivering sustainable growth for our shareholders. We have replenished or advanced our pipelines with new
technologies, like the Fibrin Pad for hemostasis, as well as
Our Five-Year JOurneY compounds like canagliflozin for diabetes and bapineuzumab for
Several years ago, we set out to build on our strong foundation Alzheimer’s disease.
and sustain our track record of growth, even as we prepared to With our focus on financial discipline, capital has been
address a daunting challenge: the patent expirations for two of returned to shareholders in the form of dividends and share
our major drugs, RISPERDAL® (risperidone) and TOPAMAX® repurchases. Capital has also been used for important long-term
(topiramate). Together, these products had combined peak-year investments in strategic alliances and acquisitions like Pfizer
sales of more than $6 billion. We also prepared ourselves for Consumer Healthcare and Beijing Dabao Cosmetics Company, Ltd.
other market issues to which we had a good line of sight. in the Consumer business; Crucell N.V. and Elan Corporation plc
Additional developments could not be as easily foreseen: in our Pharmaceuticals business; and the pending acquisition
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER 1of Synthes, Inc. in the MD&D business. are creating demand for health care. Populations in the
When I look back at how we faced this period of industry and developed world are aging rapidly, and we consume more
global change, and how we have managed, I am proud of the health care as we grow older. Global expansion and growth,
people of Johnson & Johnson. They have shown the ingenuity, though slower than a few years ago, also lead to growing
resiliency, tenacity, integrity and compassion that you would demand for health care, especially in emerging markets.
expect of a global leader in human health care. Our investments continue to be aligned with these market
opportunities to address unmet medical needs. Cancers,
2011 results
mental health disorders, diabetes, heart disease, stroke,
Johnson & Johnson returned to delivering operational sales growth
rheumatoid arthritis and HIV are all among the most
in 2011. We grew adjusted earnings1 for the 28th consecutive year.
significant diseases—and they are markets where today we
Our worldwide sales were $65.0 billion, an increase of 5.6 percent.
either have leadership or are increasing investments to gain
Sales increased operationally 2.8 percent, reflecting the strength of
leadership.
new product launches in our Pharmaceuticals business segment,
steady performance across our MD&D franchise, science-based • G overnment payers and regulators: As health care reform
innovations in our Consumer business and strong growth in evolves around the world, governments are requiring more
emerging markets. cost-effective health care solutions.
Approximately 70 percent of our sales were from products with We recognize these priorities and are making investments
No. 1 or No. 2 global market share positions. Approximately in personalized medicine and companion diagnostics,
25 percent of our sales were from products introduced in the past especially in the areas of oncology and anti-psychotics, that
five years. are geared toward how we can better target treatments,
With our continued focus on financial discipline, our adjusted monitor results and be more efficient in product development.
earnings were $13.9 billion1 and adjusted earnings per share were As the regulatory environment has become much more
$5.001, representing increases of 4.4 percent and 5.0 percent, intense, we share a common goal with regulators: saving lives,
respectively. easing people’s suffering and addressing unmet medical needs
We invested $7.5 billion in R&D and advanced robust pipelines with meaningful innovations. We support strong regulatory
across all three of our business segments. environments that ensure patient safety while enabling the
We generated significant free cash flow of approximately fast and efficient approval of potentially life-saving medicines
$11.4 billion2, maintained our AAA credit rating and increased the and treatments.
dividend to our shareholders for the 49th consecutive year. • Industry trends: Bringing new innovations to market
Solid and consistent returns to shareholders have been a requires significant investments, access to the best minds
hallmark of Johnson & Johnson. During 2011, we generated a and talent, and adaptability to ever-changing markets.
one-year total shareholder return of nearly 10 percent, exceeding It is more important than ever for companies to be agile,
the Standard & Poor’s 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average. Over collaborative and able to thrive with new business models.
longer timeframes, we continue to compare favorably to those We have always looked to complement our development
indices. With a long-term management focus, our company has efforts with acquisitions and collaborations that help us
remained a solid investment choice for decades. (For more details, gain new capabilities or provide access to technology,
see the 2011 Business Segment Highlights on pages 4 and 5.) products and compounds that we can accelerate to market.
The collaborations in Alzheimer’s disease with Elan and Pfizer,
FOrCes shaping health Care
and in HIV with Gilead Sciences, Inc., are just a few of our
As we look ahead, we see three major forces shaping the health
promising ventures.
care environment: macroeconomic conditions, the role of
government payers and regulators, and industry trends. Clearly,
Well pOsitiOned FOr grOWth
each poses continuing challenges. But inherent in each are also Overall, Johnson & Johnson is well positioned to address these
opportunities … and we are seizing them. evolving market forces and opportunities:
• Macroeconomic conditions: Slowing economic growth, the • B ecause of the ways we are delivering meaningful innovations
uncertainty in financial markets, high unemployment and to patients and customers;
pressure on health care costs have all contributed to
• B ecause of the steps we have taken to build a more agile company;
constraints on health care spending.
These dynamics are balanced by demographic trends that • A nd because of our commitment to the operating model and
NET SALES DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE DIVIDENDS PAID PER SHARE
(in billions of dollars) (in dollars) (in dollars)
$4.78 $2.250
$61.1 $63.7 $61.9 $61.6 $65.0 $4.57 $4.40 $1.930 $2.110
$1.795
$3.63 $3.49 $1.620
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
2 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTvalues that have enabled such a consistent track record of approach each decision: patients and customers first, then our
success. employees, our communities, and our shareholders.
The last few years have offered significant challenges, but our
aChieving meaningFul innO vatiOn commitment to Our Credo has remained the foundation of our
We have learned there are many paths to achieving meaningful response. It provides a common set of values that hold together
innovation. For us, the first step is to identify the significant unmet our approximately 118,000 employees in 60 countries and more
need and market opportunity where we believe Johnson & Johnson than 250 operating companies.
can make a difference for patients. Our responsibility as a global citizen is rooted in Our Credo.
We first look for areas where we have capabilities, insights and For more than 125 years our innovations and philanthropy have
unique advantages that can shape the opportunity. Then we touched the lives of billions of people, particularly in areas of the
search both inside and outside our companies to find the latest world where access to basic health care is a challenge.
science and research to address these needs. In addition to our In 2011, we were honored to be recognized by the United
own R&D, we use strategic alliances, licensing arrangements, Nations as Humanitarian of the Year for our work in this regard.
acquisitions and venture capital investments to give us insight We reported strong progress in the inaugural year of our five-year
into and access to the next big breakthrough. Finally, we leverage pledge to help save and improve the lives of 120 million women
the breadth of our resources in development, supply chain, and children annually in developing countries as part of the
marketing and sales to bring these innovative products to market. United Nations Millennium Development Goals.
Our Pharmaceuticals business has followed this model with its We are proud of this and the many other programs driven by the
pursuit of better treatments for hepatitis C and cardiovascular passion of our employees and hundreds of equally passionate
disease. For hepatitis C, which infects about 170 million people partners around the world.
worldwide, we partnered with Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. on the
development of telaprevir. It was approved in 2011 and is now Our COmmitment tO YOu
being marketed as INCIVO® in Europe. It has been an honor and a privilege to serve as your Chief
Also in 2011, we partnered with Bayer Healthcare on the Executive Officer for these past 10 years. Our success in
development and launch of XARELTO®, for prevention of deep developing outstanding leaders from within Johnson & Johnson is
vein thrombosis in knee or hip replacement surgery and for reflected in the selection of Alex Gorsky as the next CEO to lead
reducing the risk of stroke and systemic embolism in patients our great company forward, effective on April 26, 2012, the date of
with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. our Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The decision involved a
Other times, we may choose an acquisition to broaden our rigorous, thorough and formal multi-year process.
portfolio with a new capability or to gain entry into a new piece of Alex is an experienced and disciplined leader who will take the
the market with a technology we don’t have in our own pipeline. reins of our company during a turbulent time for health care but a
That was the case with the REVIVE™ SE Device, the innovative very promising time for Johnson & Johnson.
product that helped save Mrs. Wecker’s life, which came to us I can assure you, our shareholders, that Johnson & Johnson will
through the acquisition of Micrus Endovascular LLC in 2010. It is continue to shape and lead the future of health care. We will do
now an important new option in the treatment of ischemic stroke. this by delivering meaningful innovations to patients and
In the case of the Fibrin Pad, we started out as strategic partners customers, building a more agile business to seize new market
with Israel-based Omrix Pharmaceuticals Ltd., working to solve opportunities, and remaining committed to a proven operating
unmet medical needs in surgical bleeding. As the collaboration model and set of values, embodied by Our Credo, that make all of
developed, we determined that an acquisition would allow us to us proud.
better manage the complex development and intricate regulatory Thanks to the extraordinary achievements and dedication of
filings necessary to achieve success for this convergent product, our people, Johnson & Johnson is better positioned today than at
which is anxiously awaited by surgeons. any time in recent history to deliver sustainable growth for you,
Another approach is to use our broad base of businesses and our loyal shareholders.
expertise to tackle a disease state on multiple fronts. Diabetes is
one example. We can offer devices like blood glucose monitors
and insulin pumps; develop new drugs, as we are with
canagliflozin; and help patients and consumers achieve healthier
William C. Weldon
living through our Consumer Wellness & Prevention business
Chairman, Board of Directors, and Chief Executive Officer
and nutritional products such as SPLENDA® Sweeteners.
March 14, 2012
Operating With agilitY On a Base OF s trOng values
Just as important as the way we innovate is the way we operate.
We have focused on improving our operations to reflect our
commitment to delivering high-quality products and to adapt to
the rapidly evolving marketplace.
Beyond meaningful innovations and agility, the foundation of
our decades of sustained growth remains an unwavering
1 Excludes special items.
commitment to our operating model and values.
2 F ree cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital spending. See
The tenets of Our Credo provide a clear focus for how we Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on page 72.
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER 32011 Business Segment
Highlights
A
fter two challenging years, collaborations with companies like Pharmacyclics, Inc., with
which we will jointly develop and market an anti-cancer
Johnson & Johnson returned
compound, building our strength in oncology.
to delivering operational sales In terms of pipeline progress in 2011, we were the U.S.
leader in new molecular entity approvals with three: ZYTIGA®
growth in 2011. We continued to
in oncology, XARELTO® (rivaroxaban) in cardiovascular
strengthen our platform for leadership disease and EDURANT® (rilpivirine) in HIV. This progress
in the Pharmaceuticals business segment is the result of our
and profitable growth through new
commitment to continued investment in product launches
product launches, strong pipelines and and pipeline compounds.
investments in key growth areas.
mediCal deviCes and diagnO stiCs
With $25.8 billion in sales in 2011, our Medical Devices and
Johnson & Johnson has three distinct business segments Diagnostics (MD&D) business unit is the largest medical device
that share a common focus on human health. business in the world. Operational sales growth was just under
2 percent.
pharmaCeutiCals The year saw many challenges in several MD&D markets, as
With $24.4 billion in sales in 2011, we are the eighth largest well as issues with the DePuy ASR™ Hip System recall. European
pharmaceuticals business in the world and the sixth largest austerity measures, pricing pressures and a slowdown in elective
biotech business. Strong operational growth of 6.2 percent surgeries driven by continued economic pressures have all
was driven by recently launched products like STELARA® contributed to more tempered growth rates. Despite these
(ustekinumab), SIMPONI® (golimumab), ZYTIGA® (abiraterone challenges, our MD&D business segment is competing well in
acetate), INCIVO® (telaprevir) and INVEGA® SUSTENNA® a global market that has undergone dynamic change.
(paliperidone palmitate). In 2011, MD&D showed strong double-digit growth
Through 2011, we built on the continued success of recently in the BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) markets
launched products to strengthen our leadership position where we have introduced many innovative products.
in core therapeutic areas including immunology, infectious Meanwhile, in Asia-Pacific and Europe, we have been rolling
disease, neuroscience and oncology. For products launched out 1-DAY ACUVUE® MOIST® Brand Contact Lenses for
between 2009 and 2011, Johnson & Johnson led the United ASTIGMATISM.
States in new pharmaceutical products this past year. We continued to advance important products through
We expanded our immunology leadership and sales with the the regulatory process. In 2011, 75 percent of the MD&D
amendment to our global distribution agreement with Merck & Co. pipeline advanced to the next major milestone. Breakthrough
on our largest-selling product, REMICADE® (infliximab), and products like the SEDASYS® System, the first computer-assisted
SIMPONI® (golimumab). personalized sedation system, and the Fibrin Pad, in the area
We also received approval of INCIVO® in Europe for of surgical bleeding, are progressing with the U.S. Food and
hepatitis C, which is marketed as INCIVEK™ by our strategic Drug Administration. We also are increasing investments
partner, Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc., in the U.S. in emerging markets, with new innovation centers in India
We completed the acquisition of Crucell N.V., building a and China, while continuing to support a number of training
key leadership position in vaccines. And we entered into new institutes around the world.
4 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTWith these actions and others, our
pharmaceutical segment sales
MD&D business unit has been able to REMICADE®
sales by major product $5.5
sustain the No. 1 or No. 2 leadership
(in billions of dollars) 19.1%
positions in 80 percent of our key
2011 Sales: $24.4 RISPERD $A 1L® . 6CONSTA®
platforms while growing or maintaining
Sales Change 5.5%
share in the majority of these platforms.
Total: 8.8%
We’ve also made some strategic Operational*: 6.2% PROCR $IT 1® ./ 6EPREX® V $EL 1CA .D 3E®
portfolio decisions in this business (16.1%) 18.0%
segment, such as refocusing our
cardiovascular business. In 2011, PREZISTA®
$1.2
we exited the drug-eluting stent 41.3%
business and shifted investments to LEVAQUIN®/FLOXIN®
$0.6
higher-growth, higher-need areas like (54.1%)
electrophysiology. These decisions
CONCERTA®
$1.3
will help to fund growth potential in
(3.9%)
other promising areas. Decisions to
ACIPHEX®/PARIET®
acquire Synthes, Inc. and strengthen $1.0
our leadership position in orthopaedics, (3.1%) OTHER
$10.3
as well as our acquisition of SterilMed,
18.2%
Inc. for its experience in re-processing
surgical instruments, are examples of
medical devices and diagnostics
ETHICON
how we are continuously looking across segment sales ENDO $-S 5U .R 1GERY®
our business for the best long-term 6.8%
sales by major Franchise
growth opportunities. (in billions of dollars)
2011 Sales: $25.8
COnsumer ET $H 4IC .O 9N®
Sales Change ORTHO-CLINICAL
With $14.9 billion in sales in 2011, 8.2% DIAGNOSTICS®
Total: 4.8% $2.2
our Consumer business segment is Operational*: 1.7% 5.4%
the sixth largest consumer health care
company in the world. Operational sales
declined just under 1 percent, reflecting
the impact of remediation and supply V CIS AI RO EN
issues associated with our U.S. over-the- DIAB $ET 2E .S 6 CARE $2.9
8.8%
counter (OTC) business. The decline was 7.4%
partially offset by solid growth in certain
franchises including Skin Care and Oral
C Na Er Ue T, w Ri Oth
G
s Et Nro An ®g
a
p ne dr f to hr em La ISn Tce Es
R
f Ir Nom
E®
D $E 5PU .Y 8® CARD $I CO 2AV RA .E 3SCULAR
Mouthwash brands. 4.0% (10.3%)
Our Consumer group continued
expanding into emerging markets
with the acquisition of a line of OTC Consumer segment sales SKIN CARE
$3.7
cough-and-cold brands in Russia from sales by major Franchise 7.6%
J.B. Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals (in billions of dollars)
Limited. We also continued to innovate, 2011 Sales: $14.9
introducing NEUTROGENA® Naturals, Sales Change
AVEENO® SMART ESSENTIALS™, Total: 2.0%
NICORETTE® QUICKMIST™ and Operational*: (0.7%)
LISTERINE® ZERO™.
WOMEN’S
The recovery and remediation of PHARMAO CT EC
U TICALS
H $E 1AL .T 8H
the McNeil Consumer Healthcare & NU $TR 4IT .I 4ONALS (2.8%)
business continues. The major (3.2%)
commitments to date under the Consent
Decree with the U.S. Food and Drug
WOUND CARE/
Administration have been achieved, and OTHER
$1.0
several products have already returned
0.0%
to market. Volume will continue to ramp
ORAL CARE
up, and products will be reintroduced $1.6 BABY CARE
$2.4
throughout 2012. *Operationalexcludestheimpactofcurrency 6.4% 5.9%
2011 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS 5PHARMACEUTICALS
Accelerating Cancer R&D
F
or Bill Hait, the most compelling science is that Johnson & Johnson acquired Cougar
Biotechnology in July 2009. Based on
which holds the greatest promise for developing
positive results from a completed Phase III
medicines that address high unmet needs. study, marketing applications were filed
with regulatory authorities in the U.S.,
“A network that allows you to have insights into
Europe and other countries in 2010. The
what is going on in the world of science is essential,”
entire development program proceeded
says Hait, M.D., Ph.D., Global Head, Janssen Research & very rapidly: It was less than six years from
the time the first patient was treated to
Development, LLC. “It takes an understanding of both
marketing approvals in the U.S., Canada,
the medical need and the most compelling science to the European Union and Switzerland.
get meaningful innovations to patients quickly.”
a new aPProa Ch To CanCer r&D
One example is ZYTIGA® (abiraterone surgical reduction of hormones, some A noted oncologist before joining
acetate), an oral, once-daily medication cancers continue to rely on them. Before Johnson & Johnson in March 2007, Hait
for use in combination with prednisone the approval of ZYTIGA®, treatment has been a catalyst for change, bringing
for the treatment of men with metastatic options to extend life for men with focus and helping to centralize R&D within
castration-resistant prostate cancer this kind of metastatic castration- therapeutic areas. Within oncology, Hait
(CRPC) who have received prior resistant prostate cancer were limited to created Tumor Strategy Groups (TSG)
chemotherapy containing docetaxel. chemotherapy. When this was no longer focused on three areas of high unmet
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration effective, patients were out of treatment need: hematological malignancies, lung
granted marketing approval for ZYTIGA® options. cancer and prostate cancer. TSGs further
in April 2011 after an expedited Abiraterone acetate was discovered specialize by using the tumor micro-
six-month review. An accelerated by Imperial Cancer Research at Royal environment as the strategic research focus.
regulatory review process granted by Marsden Hospital in London. It was “The tumor is no longer viewed as a
the European Medicines Agency led to licensed to Cougar Biotechnology, Inc., tumor cell living in isolation. A tumor cell
marketing authorization by the European which began testing the compound in men is very close to its environment, and it’s
Commission in September 2011. with CRPC who were taking androgen using its environment to grow better,”
How this transformative prostate deprivation therapy. says Hait.
cancer treatment came to market “This breakthrough research hinged That kind of insight enabled the
exemplifies a fundamental shift in the on scientific understanding of the tumor paradigm-changing scientific progress
approach to research and development micro-environment—specifically, the idea that led to ZYTIGA®, validating the TSG
that is being applied across Janssen that the tumor itself could be the source approach.
Research & Development. of the remaining testosterone,” says Importantly, Hait also helped open
compound leader for abiraterone acetate minds to look beyond the company’s own
Transforming ProsTaTe CanCer Michael L. Meyers, M.D., Ph.D., Janssen labs and invest in science, wherever that
TreaTmenT Research & Development, LLC. science may be.
Globally, prostate cancer is the second “By identifying the key science for “Drug development is very competitive
most frequently diagnosed cancer in men these patients and the fact that this drug and difficult,” says Hait. “One way to be at
and the fifth most common cancer overall. was already being developed, the way the cutting edge is not to be walled inside
According to estimates by the National to accelerate the process was to try to your own brick and mortar. You have to
Cancer Institute, more than 240,000 new collaborate or acquire the drug,” says Hait, be out there to see the most exciting new
cases of prostate cancer were diagnosed in who recognized the value of abiraterone things that are developing.”
the U.S. in 2011, while nearly 34,000 men acetate and championed the acquisition Collaborations are one way of being out
died from the disease. of Cougar Biotechnology. “The fact that there, and they promise to fuel advances
Androgen hormones, such as it worked so well shortened the timeline in oncology research and development.
testosterone, are known to fuel prostate between the start of the Phase III trial and For example, an ongoing agreement with
cancer tumors, and despite chemical or registration of the drug.” the David H. Koch Institute for Integrative
6 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTsighTs seT on s CienCe Bill Hait has a vision for future research and development.
The focus is on finding and mining the most compelling science to bring products to market faster.
Cancer Research at the Massachusetts Massachusetts General Hospital to develop drug discovery and development.
Institute of Technology fosters oncology and commercialize a next-generation Hait says the key to meaningful
research and technology development circulating tumor cell (CTC) technology for collaborations is to have the right people
in the areas of cancer diagnostics, cancer capturing, counting and characterizing internally. “Like-minded people seek each
biology pre-malignancies, genetic models tumor cells found in patients’ blood. It will other out,” says Hait. “At the end of the day
of disease and profiles of the tumor micro- enable CTCs to be used both by oncologists, it’s the terms of the contract, but to get to
environment. as a diagnostic tool for personalizing that point the other company or group has
Another important collaboration, patient care, and by researchers, to to have confidence that the people they are
announced in January 2011, is with accelerate and improve the process of working with are really experts.”
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 7Curing
Hepatitis C
INCIVO® (telaprevir)*, a new
direct-acting antiviral protease
inhibitor for the treatment of
genotype 1** chronic hepatitis C
virus (HCV) in combination
with pegylated interferon and
ribavirin, was approved in
European Member States in
September 2011. “The arrival
of direct-acting antivirals will
offer more patients hope for
a cure,” says Charles Gore,
President, World Hepatitis
Alliance.
According to the World
Health Organization, about
170 million people worldwide
are infected with hepatitis C.
Because it can have serious
long-term health consequences
—such as cirrhosis, liver
cancer and liver transplanta-
tion—hepatitis C carries a high
economic burden for patients
and society.
Named one of the top 10
medical innovations of 2011 by
Moving From Treatment manUfaCTUring VaCCines
the Cleveland Clinic, telaprevir
Kyung Mi Choi works at
doubles the chances of clearing
to Prevention Crucell’s ultramodern vaccine
the virus in half the treatment
manufacturing facility,
time compared with prior
which opened in 2011 in
standard treatments in the
Incheon, South Korea.
majority of HCV genotype 1
Vaccines are fundamentally that’s affordable for the It is one of the largest such patients.
different from pharmaceutical majority of the globe. facilities in the world. Jim Witek, Global Medical
medicines. That’s what Crucell, Affairs Leader for INCIVO®,
“A vaccine prepares acquired by an affiliate of vaccine used worldwide by says this product is a new
the body for whenever a virus Johnson & Johnson in UNICEF, the world’s largest highlight of the Janssen
attacks you,” explains Jaap February 2011, is working distributor of childhood Pharmaceutical Companies’
Goudsmit, Chief Scientific to do with a new, ultramodern vaccines. expanding infectious disease
Officer, Crucell N.V. “You manufacturing facility in Crucell is also working to portfolio. “Our R&D in serious
vaccinate healthy people, Incheon, South Korea. evaluate possibilities of using infections such as HIV/AIDS,
whereas drugs are used to treat One of the largest such vaccines beyond preventing HCV and tuberculosis has
sick people. The aim of facilities in the world, it is infectious diseases. One area of allowed us to bring innovative
vaccination is to prevent capable of making more than focus is prevention of diseases therapies that are helping to
disease.” 100 million doses per year of the elderly, such as certain redefine and improve treat-
It takes more than scientific of pentavalent vaccine, cancers and Alzheimer’s ment outcomes,” he says.
expertise. As our Pharmaceu- a combination of five vaccines disease.
* INCIVO® (telaprevir) was co-developed
ticals business grows beyond in one: diphtheria, tetanus, “We dream of a world by Vertex Pharmaceuticals and Tibotec,
an affiliate of Janssen Pharmaceutical
a treatment model to one whooping cough, hepatitis B where there are no more
Companies of Johnson & Johnson.
that includes prevention with and haemophilus influenza infectious diseases,” says Johan The Janssen Companies have the right to
commercialize telaprevir in Europe, Latin
vaccines, an equally important type b (the bacteria that Van Hoof, Managing Director,
America, the Middle East, Africa, India,
consideration is the ability to causes meningitis, pneumonia Crucell. “Or where there are Australia and New Zealand under the
make hundreds of millions and otitis). The facility makes infectious diseases, they’re
commercial name INCIVO®.
** The most common genotype in Europe
of doses of vaccine at a price half of all the pentavalent under control.” and the U.S.
8 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTAddressing the Burden of HIV Expanding
Our
In March 2011, several non- with multiple medicines in one Since 2007, licensing agree- Immunology
exclusive licenses were granted tablet that will simplify HIV ments have been used with
to generic manufacturers in therapy. Four of these agree- generic manufacturers to make Leadership
South Africa and India to ments were signed prior to these HIV medicines available
manufacture, market and receiving regulatory approvals at a low special access price to
distribute rilpivirine, an for rilpivirine, allowing generic 65 countries that have a high
investigational anti-HIV manufacturers to make generic HIV burden, including India
medication subsequently rilpivirine and the combination and nations in sub-Saharan In 2011, global approvals and
granted approval by the U.S. pill available more quickly. Africa. More recently the agree- an amended distribution
Food and Drug Administration Collaboration with generic ments have been modified to agreement with Merck & Co.,
(FDA) and the European companies extends beyond provide access to rilpivirine Inc. helped Janssen
Medicines Agency. licensing to sharing technical in 112 low-resource countries, Pharmaceuticals, Inc. expand
“Johnson & Johnson has skills and providing help to including Vietnam and its leadership and geographic
expanded the scope of its ensure safety and quality as well. Thailand, covering more than presence in immunology,
Global Access Program and In May 2011, the FDA 80 percent of people living serving more patients.
licensed generic partners to granted approval of EDURANT® with HIV worldwide. STELARA® (ustekinumab),
speed access to rilpivirine, (rilpivirine) for treatment- a treatment for moderate to
an important new medicine naïve adults (those who have aCCess To meDiCines severe plaque psoriasis now
to treat HIV,” says Alan never taken HIV therapy). It is HIV medications help Thabo approved in 61 countries, was
Staple, Manager of Strategic the third anti-HIV medication feel strong so he can enjoy recognized with the prestigious
Relationships, the Clinton commercialized by Janssen time with his mother in South Prix Galien USA Award as the
Health Access Initiative. Therapeutics, Division of Africa. Johnson & Johnson Best Biotechnology Product.
Agreements now exist with Janssen Products, LP; together expanded its Global Access STELARA® is in Phase III
five generic manufacturers to with PREZISTA® (darunavir) Program in 2011 to make its studies for the treatment of
ensure widespread access to and INTELENCE® (etravirine), HIV portfolio available to psoriatic arthritis and Crohn’s
and supply of rilpivirine, both the company can provide more people like him, who disease, and Phase II studies for
as a single-agent medicine and treatment options for patients otherwise might not get the the treatment of sarcoidosis and
as a fixed-dose combination at all stages of the disease. medicines they need. primary biliary cirrhosis.
SIMPONI® (golimumab), a
once-monthly subcutaneously
administered anti-TNF-alpha
therapy, has now achieved
approvals in 45 countries.
SIMPONI® is in Phase III stud-
ies for treatment of ulcerative
colitis and juvenile idiopathic
arthritis, and as an intravenous
formulation for rheumatoid
arthritis. It is also in a Phase II
study for sarcoidosis.
In September, REMICADE®
(infliximab) received U.S.
Food and Drug Administration
approval as the first biologic
treatment for pediatric ulcer-
ative colitis, marking the
16th approval in the U.S.
REMICADE® is now available
in 106 countries.
In July, marketing rights for
REMICADE® and SIMPONI®
were transferred from Merck
to the Janssen Pharmaceutical
Companies in approximately
150 territories.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 9CONSUMER
Innovating Iconic Brands
A
s a mother of seven, mommy blogger Christine BAND-AID® Brand Adhesive Bandages
use QUILTVENT™ technology, which
Young tends to a good number of scrapes and
promotes breathability—a feature
cuts. “My kids bike, skateboard, climb trees and consumers have said they want—and
enables the bandage to wick away blood,
are always on the go, so there’s always a scrape
leaving the wound clean.
or cut or bruise,” says Christine, whose daughter and six The NEOSPORIN® brand, meanwhile,
is entering the eczema skin care area
sons range in age from 1 to 11.
with NEOSPORIN® ESSENTIALS™,
When Christine treats her children’s campaign also brought fun activities and three new products designed for people
“owies,” she sings the “Always Squeeze the commercial’s brightly colored puppets with eczema, plus a trial pack that
Then Stick™” song from a TV commercial to large events, including the Baby Buggy contains them all. The line includes a
in which cheerful puppets sing about Bedtime Bash, a charity event attended gentle and nonirritating daily care
always using NEOSPORIN® antibiotic by celebrity parents and children. And wash; a moisturizing cream that has
ointment together with BAND-AID® Brand the initiative reached out to influential been clinically shown to restore visibly
Adhesive Bandages for minor wounds. mommy and daddy bloggers, who spread healthier skin in three days; and, for
“It’s catchy and gets stuck in our heads. the word through social media. itch flare-ups, a hydrocortisone cream.
We’re singing it all day long,” Christine says. Christine, for example, who had used All have unique RELIPID™ formulas,
the two products together long before she which contain a humectant, emollient,
Marketing for today’s ConsuMers became an ambassador for the campaign, lipid and botanical blend to help retain
Nearly 100 years old, BAND-AID® Brand is promoted “Always Squeeze Then Stick™” moisture, which is essential for healthy-
one of the first Johnson & Johnson brands. through Twitter and at several parent looking skin.
The NEOSPORIN® brand, which joined the blogger events. She hosted a video contest “We put so much heart, sweat and
Johnson & Johnson trademark portfolio in for her blog’s readers and posted a video of passion into innovating these formulas,”
2006 with the Pfizer Consumer Healthcare her own family in Lincoln, Calif., dancing says Elena Fernandez-Kleinlein, Senior
acquisition, has long represented the gold and singing the song. Director, R&D, Global Topical Health Care,
standard in antibiotic ointments. “It appeals to a broader audience Johnson & Johnson Family of Consumer
“If any brands were naturally meant beyond just us moms,” Christine says. Companies. “We’re proud to be able to
to be together, it’s the NEOSPORIN® and “My older kids are pretty good about help eczema sufferers.”
BAND-AID® Brands,” says Susan Tang, helping to treat the younger kids. It’s not Other heritage brands are also
Group Brand Director, U.S. Topical Health just mom squeezing then sticking. It’s the launching innovative products to
Care, Johnson & Johnson Family of oldest siblings too.” meet consumer needs. For example,
Consumer Companies. After all, she notes, NEUTROGENA®, a 58-year-old iconic
parents have trusted them for generations developing trusted new produC ts brand, learned from consumer insight
to care for their children, the products Across the Johnson & Johnson Family that parents have a hard time getting their
share the same store aisle and, when used of Consumer Companies, iconic brands little swimmer to sit still long enough to
together, provide exceptional wound care. are using innovation to drive growth dry off and reapply sunscreen. This led to
Yet only 2 percent of consumers use and meet consumer needs. Efforts range the 2011 launch of NEUTROGENA® Wet
an antibiotic cream with a bandage, from marketing and educational tools Skin Sunblock Spray, the first sunscreen
according to one study. To reinforce the to creative packaging to research and designed to be applied directly to wet skin.
message that the products should be used development that leads to new products The sprays quickly became the top-selling
together, Johnson & Johnson Consumer from historic brands. new products in the sun category.
Companies, Inc. developed the “Always The NEOSPORIN® and BAND-AID® Also in 2011, Neutrogena Corporation
Squeeze Then Stick™” initiative and ran a Brands, for example, are also launching launched the first products in its line
commercial in English and Spanish. The new products in early 2012. The new of NEUTROGENA® Naturals face and
10 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTBringing Brands togetHer When Christine Young’s children experience a scrape or cut, she sings the “Always Squeeze
Then Stick™” song as she uses NEOSPORIN® antibiotic ointment and BAND-AID® Brand Adhesive Bandages to help them feel better.
The marketing campaign brings together the two iconic brands.
lip products. The five products are, on packaging and built a first-of-its-kind an easy-to-use design. The marketing
average, 94 percent naturally derived, green server, which runs the brand’s campaign and commercials focused on
with no harsh chemical sulfates, parabens, website solely on solar and wind energy. demonstrating the spray’s fast action,
petrochemicals, dyes or phthalates. The NICORETTE® team, meanwhile, which deeply resonated with consumers.
The Neutrogena science team examined extended the brand’s long history with the “Consumers have trusted our
thousands of natural ingredients to find launch of NICORETTE® QUICKMIST™, brands for generations. We must invest
the best bionutrients, such as Peruvian a fast-acting mouth spray for relief from in our heritage brands to keep them
Tara Seed, to promote healthy-looking cigarette cravings. The development and successful and relevant to consumer
skin. In addition, NEUTROGENA® launch involved a host of innovations needs,” says Jesse Wu, Worldwide
Naturals uses environmentally sensitive based on consumer insight, including Chairman, Consumer Group,
post-consumer recycled material in its the desire for speed, effectiveness and Johnson & Johnson.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 11Aspiring Customers in wHat ConsuMers want A better understanding of emerging
market consumers, like Heleneide Pereira de Brito, helps our
Emerging Markets Consumer business satisfy needs.
of the population.” the-counter business of J.B.
LISTERINE® ESSENCIAL™ Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals
appeals to such consumers Ltd., including its DOKTOR MOM®
Heleneide Pereira de Brito of consumers in 2010. through its new design, brand, a well-known line of
São Paulo, Brazil, feels more “In most emerging markets, lower cost and comprehensive products for mid-tier
confident with fresh breath and including Brazil, there are marketing campaign that consumers in Russia. Such
a beautiful smile. many people who aspire to speaks to their aspirations. acquisitions are helping
“Feeling good about purchase traditional Western The Consumer business to expand the portfolio of
how they look helps brands but are looking for continues to gain a deeper products that meet consumer
consumers also feel more affordability and a combination understanding of needs in needs in emerging markets.
prepared to accomplish of benefits that create value,” emerging markets through- “By leveraging our existing
things in their daily lives,” says Takis Baladis, Area out the world, leading to capabilities, as well as our
says Karina Lensing, Senior Vice President, Emerging enhanced products and consumer and marketing
Brand Manager, LISTERINE®, Markets, Europe, Middle East, marketing that better connect strengths, we can continue
Johnson & Johnson Industrial Africa, Johnson & Johnson to consumers. to innovate, drive growth and
Ltda., Brazil, sharing an Consumer Family of In 2011, for example, the meet new consumer needs
insight that helped bring Companies. “These consumers Johnson & Johnson Family of in emerging markets,”
LISTERINE® ESSENCIAL™ to make up a significant portion Companies acquired the over- Baladis says.
12 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTSupporting Sustainable Sourcing
When consumers in palm oil is increasing at an equal to 100 percent of our with nongovernmental
France unwrap a LE PETIT unsustainable rate, causing estimated palm oil use were organizations (NGOs) and
MARSEILLAIS® bar of damage to rainforests and purchased from the GreenPalm supporting projects to increase
soap, they may notice an threatening the environments program, which is endorsed by the availability of certified
additional logo: that of the of several endangered species. the RSPO. sustainable palm oil supplies.
GreenPalm program. LE PETIT “Even though we represent a “The GreenPalm program For example, a partnership with
MARSEILLAIS® recently began small portion of global palm oil allows us to demonstrate our the Dutch NGO Solidaridad
using the GreenPalm logo on usage—less than 0.2 percent in commitment to our Healthy trains farmers in sustainable
packaging to highlight efforts 2011—we joined the Future 2015 goal of sourcing palm oil farming techniques.
supporting sustainable palm Roundtable for Sustainable all palm oil and palm oil “We are doing everything
oil production. Palm Oil (RSPO) in 2006 to derivatives from certified we can to accelerate and
Palm oil and ingredients help make a difference in the sustainable sources,” says promote the growth of
derived from palm oil are sustainability of this important Simon Perry, Sourcing sustainable palm oil,” says
commonly used in personal ingredient,” says Paulette Frank, Manager, Johnson & Johnson Frank. “We’re a small user, but
care products such as soaps, Vice President, Sustainability Family of Consumer Companies. we have a big voice.”
lotions, shampoos and creams. and Environment, Health and To achieve the 2015 goal,
The oil, which comes from the Safety, Johnson & Johnson Johnson & Johnson has a Returning
fruit of the oil palm tree, is also Family of Consumer Companies. global palm oil sourcing
used in the production of food In 2010 and 2011, strategy that includes engaging Quality
and biofuel. The demand for sustainable palm oil certificates our suppliers, collaborating
McNeil
Products
McNeil Consumer Healthcare
continues to make progress
against commitments to
return high-quality products to
shelves for consumers.
Shipments have resumed
for a number of adult and
children’s TYLENOL®
products. We anticipate that
key selected products will
continue to be reintroduced
throughout 2012. A number
of Johnson & Johnson
manufacturing facilities—
and hundreds of supply
chain associates—have been
involved in the effort to return
these trusted brands to store
shelves.
Work also continues to
outfit the manufacturing
facility in Fort Washington,
Pa., with state-of-the-art
equipment and processes
to provide quality products
to consumers. Upon its
reopening, the site will be
a world-class facility for
reduCing our iMpa Ct As part of efforts to encourage sustainable palm oil supply and sourcing, manufacturing over-the-
Johnson & Johnson works with organizations that engage in sustainable palm oil farming practices. counter liquid medicines.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 13MEDICAL DEVICES & DIAGNOSTICS
Reviving and
Recovering
W
hen Ehrenfried Wecker of Wiesenbach,
Germany, returned home from the bakery
with breakfast rolls one morning in August,
he found his wife, Brunhilde, in bed,
waving at him with one arm and unable to speak.
“I took her other hand and when I let change in paradigms in medicine,”
it go, the hand just fell down,” he says. He Prof. Bendszus says. “It’s dramatic.”
realized she couldn’t move her right side.
“I knew immediately that my wife had a Significant need
severe stroke and that every minute would Each year 15 million people suffer stroke
count,” Mr. Wecker says. An ambulance worldwide. Of these, 5 million die and
rushed Mrs. Wecker, 64, to the hospital, another 5 million are permanently
where evaluation including an MRI disabled. Stroke is the leading cause of
showed she was experiencing an acute death after heart disease and cancer,
ischemic stroke, a blockage of an artery and a leading cause of serious long-
leading to the brain. term disability. Hemorrhagic strokes
The doctor proposed using a new occur when an artery in the brain bursts;
option, the REVIVE™ SE Device, a self- ischemic strokes, in which blood flow to
expanding blood clot retrieval and removal the brain is blocked, account for about
device designed to remove blood clots and 90 percent of strokes each year.
restore blood flow to the brain in patients The REVIVE™ SE Device is the first
having acute ischemic stroke. “I said, ‘I device from Codman & Shurtleff, Inc. for
don’t think it could get much worse’ and ischemic stroke and marks a new growth
asked them to do what they thought would area for the Johnson & Johnson company,
be best for my wife,” Mr. Wecker recalls. which is developing additional stroke
The minimally invasive procedure took products. “This is the beginning of a long-
only 25 minutes, an advantage because term commitment to bring forward more of Micrus Endovascular Corporation,
the damage can become more serious the innovations that advance the treatment a global developer and manufacturer
longer the brain is deprived of blood. of stroke and improve patient care and of minimally invasive devices for
“The patient could have suffered outcomes,” says Karen Prange, General hemorrhagic and ischemic stroke. It now
severe permanent impairment or could Manager and Vice President, Codman operates under Codman Neurovascular,
have died,” says her surgeon, Prof. Martin Neurovascular Business. a global neuroscience and neurovascular
Bendszus, M.D., Chairman, Department of The company received European Union company that develops and markets
Neuroradiology, University Hospital of approval for the REVIVE™ SE Device in products for the diagnosis and treatment
Heidelberg, Germany. “But she could move February 2011 and launched the device of neurological disorders. Codman is part
her body and speak the next day, and left there in September. While it is not of the DePuy Family of Companies, which
the hospital one week later. She’s approved for distribution in the United has a rich history of pioneering products in
absolutely fine now—it’s really amazing.” States, clinical trials are being planned for orthopaedic and neurological care.
The hospital now routinely uses the potential future use. A fast-growth area, the neurovascular
REVIVE™ SE Device for acute ischemic The REVIVE™ SE Device represents the market is expanding at more than
stroke. “It’s rare that you experience a success of the September 2010 acquisition 10 percent annually.
14 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTlife afteR StRoKe The REVIVE™ SE Device helped save Brunhilde Wecker’s life when she suffered a stroke.
She enjoys her active lifestyle and time in her garden with her husband, Ehrenfried.
a full life ReS toRed stroke and the complete paralysis of Wecker’s husband and son visited, “We
Mrs. Wecker’s MRI had located the blood her right side. Before the procedure, couldn’t believe she was sitting there,
clot in a vessel on the left side of her brain. neurologists had also administered the waving and smiling at us, and that she
Prof. Bendszus inserted the REVIVE™ SE standard treatment for ischemic stroke, could speak perfectly fine,” Mr. Wecker
Device into her groin with a microcatheter tPA, a clot-dissolving drug. says. She left the hospital six days after her
and guided it up an artery to the blockage The next day, Mrs. Wecker was served stroke, not needing rehabilitation.
area while watching the image on a screen. potatoes and roast pork for lunch, but Once home, Mrs. Wecker resumed
The device’s mesh basket expanded, no one had cut up the meat for her. “So I her full lifestyle, working as a tax adviser,
pushing the clot against the vessel wall tried cutting up the meat myself, and my visiting her grandchildren and enjoying her
and restoring blood flow to the brain. Prof. hand worked,” she says. “The day before, garden. “I can do everything I did before,”
Bendszus then retrieved and removed I couldn’t move my hand, and now I was she says. “The operation took just 25
the blood clot that caused Mrs. Wecker’s cutting schweinebraten!” When Mrs. minutes, and it probably saved my life.”
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 15Setting an Example the ANIMAS® VIbE™ Device in undertaking. But Matt
June 2011. It’s the first and only persevered.
continuous glucose monitoring “When I got in the water,
(CGM)-enabled insulin pump to say I was scared would be
“Diabetes has never been in an almost 14-hour relay system with DExCOM G4™ a massive understatement.
one of the factors that I’ve swim across the English CGM technology, which When it was over, it was a
allowed to hold me back. Channel to raise money for allows for real-time glucose huge relief,” says Matt.
It’s a medical condition, and the Juvenile Diabetes Research information, alerts for high and “Diabetes has been a big
you’ve just got to deal with it,” Foundation. All three swimmers low readings, and glucose trend part of my life, but it’s in the
says Matt Cox, who lives in the with diabetes wore their information. background, and that’s where
village of High Lane in waterproof* ANIMAS® VIbE™ While the ANIMAS® VIbE™ I try to keep it.”
northwest England. insulin pumps as they braved Device helped Matt manage his
* The ANIMAS® insulin pump is water-
For Matt, setting a the cold waters. diabetes during the channel proof up to 3.6 meters for 24 hours. The
positive example is especially “Without my pump, this swim, it was still no easy DExCOM G4™ Transmitter is waterproof
at 2.4 meters for 24 hours.
important because his son, would not have been possible.
Jack, also has type 1 diabetes. It was clearly doable with the inSPiRational SWiM Matt Cox took part in a relay swim across
In July 2011, Matt joined right tools,” says Matt. the English Channel with support from his family. He wanted to
six swimmers, two of whom Animas Corporation show his son, Jack, that diabetes shouldn’t hold him back from
also have type 1 diabetes, received CE Mark approval for accomplishing his goals.
16 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTManaging
for Growth
A number of strategic decisions
were made in 2011 to reshape
the portfolio of devices
and diagnostics businesses
and redeploy resources to
accelerate growth over the
long term.
In April 2011,
Johnson & Johnson announced
it planned to acquire Synthes,
Inc., a premier global
developer and manufacturer
of orthopaedics devices. The
acquisition, which would
be the largest purchase in
Johnson & Johnson history,
will strengthen the Company’s
leadership position in the
global orthopaedics market.
In September 2011,
Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc.
announced an agreement
to acquire SterilMed, Inc., a
leader in the reprocessing and
Replacing a Knee,
remanufacturing of medical iMPRoVed outlooK After
devices. This broadens the a successful knee replacement
Restoring a Life
portfolio of products offered surgery, Mrs. Kamatchi (left,
to increasingly cost-conscious with daughter Dhanalakshmi)
hospital customers. can focus on her family
The Cardiovascular Care and household tasks, not on
franchise exited the drug- Mrs. Ramasamy Kamatchi is a underserved patients like her pain.
eluting stent business to better 57-year-old farmer in Trichy, Mrs. Kamatchi. The company is
focus on areas with the most India, whose life has been also committed to the safe and neurological disorders.
significant medical needs and transformed by the DePuy effective use of these products. “As we teach, we also learn
the greatest opportunities REACh™ Knee. After suffering By 2016, India will need more about the needs of sur-
for growth, such as its leading from debilitating knee pain three times as many joint- geons and their patients, and
electrophysiology business. for more than 10 years, she replacement surgeons as it we can feed these insights into
We continue to make underwent knee-replacement has today to treat the number our product innovation and
progress on all aspects of the surgery and is again able to care of patients suffering from market access strategies,” says
Synthes acquisition, including for her family and enjoy activities debilitating arthritis. Helping Michael del Prado, Company
the integration planning with her grandchildren. “Now to address this gap is the Group Chairman, Asia-Pacific.
process, and continue to I can pay less attention to my state-of-the-art DePuy “These strategies work
expect the transaction to close knee and more to my family,” Institute for Advanced together to help build health
in the first half of 2012. Synthes says Mrs. Kamatchi. “I am very Education and Research, which care capacity in India and
and the DePuy franchise will happy and satisfied.” opened near Chennai, the throughout the region.”
be well positioned to succeed By developing new R&D capital city of Tamil Nadu, in The DePuy Institute in
at a time of dramatic change and commercial models that July 2011. Through the transfer Chennai is one of more than 25
in the orthopaedics market, meet specific emerging market of knowledge and development professional education centers
offering patients, surgeons and needs, DePuy Orthopaedics, of skills, this facility will that the Johnson & Johnson
hospitals a broad range Inc. is making such life- increase the capacity of India’s Family of Companies has built
of innovative technologies changing technologies health care professionals to around the world to serve
to meet their orthopaedics accessible and affordable care for people suffering from unique patient needs in
needs. to hundreds of millions of osteoarthritis, and spinal and emerging markets.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 17OUR COMMiTMENT
Remaining Steadfast
T
he Tohoku Pacific Coast earthquake and
tsunami struck Japan on Friday, March 11.
In the wake of the disaster, Toshiaki Kobayashi—
responsible for operations of a manufacturing,
distribution and labeling facility in Sukagawa—was just
one of 5,000 Johnson & Johnson colleagues in Japan
whose immediate concern was for others.
“After the earthquake and tsunami, Vision Care operations in Tokyo suffered
my first priority was to ensure all our water damage due to sprinklers but
employees were safe, that our facility was no major damage and re-established
safe and that our community was safe. 100 percent function by March 15.
After that, I was anxious to get to work for The Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics (OCD)
our customers,” says Kobayashi, Sukagawa office in Sendai was severely damaged,
Plant Manager, Johnson & Johnson and employees were relocated to a
Medical Company (JJMC), Division of JJMC office until repairs could be made.
Johnson & Johnson K.K. The OCD office reopened later that month.
The Sukagawa plant is primarily a A Janssen facility escaped initial damage
manufacturing and distribution center but suffered minor damage four days
for medical devices, including STERRAD® later from an earthquake in the Mount
Sterilization Products and CARTO® 3 Fuji area. Operations resumed there by
System, advanced 3-D imaging technology. March 16. But a Sendai branch office of
It handles labeling for almost all the Medical JJMC was not operational, and heavily
Devices and Diagnostics products sold damaged Sukagawa was closed to undergo
in Japan. Damages at the facility were repairs. Concurrently, supply chain leaders
significant. identified and contacted hundreds of
suppliers to assess and validate safety
Assessing the DAmAge measures for raw materials and finished by regulatory agencies, then secured for
Immediately after the disaster, and in products. labeling.
the face of the subsequent risk of radiation Manufacturing was suspended.
exposure from a damaged nuclear power RecoveRy Begins The affected product, CiDEx® OPA, is
plant, leaders of Johnson & Johnson “When we toured the [Sukagawa] building also produced at a Gargrave, United
Supply Chain initiated extensive the day after the disaster, it was very Kingdom, facility. The JJMC team
and ongoing assessments of the miserable,” says Hiroyuki Watanabe, fast-tracked regulatory approval to make
Company’s operations and distribution Senior Manager, JJMC Quality Assurance. the U.K. product available in Japan during
and supplier networks throughout Japan. Kobayashi, a 30-year employee, says recovery. An external manufacturer was
The priority: ensure the safety of products the first couple of days were focused on contracted to ramp up production to
and raw materials in the Company’s cleaning. “Everything became a challenge cover demand.
supply chain. as supplies stopped,” he says. “Working in “The turnaround time for this
Within the first few days, a cross- the Sukagawa plant was very difficult, with regulatory review and approval were
functional team quickly located all no water, toilet or food available.” unprecedented, thanks to the strong
employees and found them to be safe. But emergency supplies, including food support from the JJMC team, including
Then assessments were made at each and water, arrived from Tokyo. That helped regulatory affairs,” explains Watanabe.
operating company. Consumer company during the recovery work at the plant. By March 25, five labeling rooms were
sites had no damage and within 24 hours Labeling at Sukagawa was restarted at operating at almost 100 percent capacity,
of the disaster had products ready to be about 80 percent capacity nearly a week while repairs to the manufacturing line
donated to shelter camps, towns and after the disaster. Additional space in continued. All repairs to the automated
anywhere else they were needed. Tokyo was promptly audited and approved distribution warehouse were completed.
18 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTcARing foR customeRs Once employees were found to be safe after the earthquake and tsunami, Toshiaki Kobayashi says they
focused on how fast they could get back to serving customers, despite significant damage to a Sukagawa facility.
“We were all thinking, ‘How much faster Children and World Vision. shortages of fuel, electricity, food and
can we get back to distributing products In Japan, Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K.’s other necessary items, employees in Japan
to our customers?’” says Kobayashi. “All support for rescue efforts included worked tirelessly around the clock to
employees shared this focus and worked donating medical equipment, supplies and re-establish support and supplies to the
together—it was amazing.” funding for a group of 600 doctors patients, doctors and families who need
working in affected areas. The Vision Care our products, repaired damaged facilities
AiD to JAPAn Division provided free lenses to patients and provided much needed assistance to
To assist the people of Japan during and relief workers in seven affected the Tohoku region.
this difficult time, the Johnson & Johnson prefectures, identifying clinics to serve as “Culturally, Japanese people have a
Family of Companies made a significant emergency lens distribution points. strong team spirit that was important to
financial commitment, as well as product The Japan President’s Council approved helping us make a successful recovery,” says
donations. In addition, employees a recommendation to use funds pledged Kobayashi. “Still, I could not have expected
and retirees of the Johnson & Johnson by the Johnson & Johnson Family of such surprisingly good teamwork.”
Companies donated generously to disaster Companies in Japan for mid- and longer- He emphasizes that caring for people is
relief partners including the Japanese term projects. also part of Japanese culture and says,
Red Cross Society, Direct Relief “The biggest lesson I’d like others to learn
International, International Rescue BAck to the Business of cARing from this disaster is the importance of
Committee, Project HOPE, Save the In spite of indescribable hardships and caring for and helping each other.”
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 19OUR CARING
Together, a Meaningful
Difference
W
hen you look after a woman, when passion in order to make a difference to
local organizations.
you look after mothers, you look after
“With a private sector perspective, we
the family,” says Babatunde Osotimehin, bring an enthusiasm for strategic planning
and a willingness to try and implement
M.D., Executive Director of UNFPA,
innovative approaches,” says Sharon
the United Nations Population Fund. “It is important D’Agostino, Vice President, Worldwide
Corporate Contributions & Community
that we have a holistic way of dealing with poverty and
Relations. “We bring a rigor for metrics
and evaluation, and our work to help
other factors that make women and children vulnerable,
programs demonstrate measurable
particularly in program countries where these women outcomes provides organizations with
data that can attract additional sources
and children live.”
of funding.”
UNFPA, together with UNAIDS, most of them in sub-Saharan Africa and The Company’s diverse partners
UNICEF, the World Bank and the World South Asia. For every woman who dies, are aligned with the strategic mission
Health Organization (WHO), make around 20 more are seriously injured or of making life-changing, long-term
up the H4+ partnership, a coordinated suffer disabilities. And every day, about differences in human health. “We
initiative that ensures these international 10,000 newborns die within their first recognize that those closest to the most
organizations work together for women’s 28 days of life. pressing health care concerns are best able
and children’s health through local Most of these deaths can be prevented. to address local needs,” says D’Agostino.
programs. In 2011, Johnson & Johnson Factors including poor health infra- For example, in Japan,
became the first private sector partner to structure and a lack of qualified health Johnson & Johnson supports an
support the H4+. workers can mean the most basic and organization called Resilience that
“We are happy to have natural act of giving life instead becomes provides assistance to women who are
Johnson & Johnson as the first private a cause of death—a time of hope for the involved in or have gone through abusive
sector organization coming forward as a future instead becomes a time of family relationships. Resilience offers a 12-session
true partner on this initiative,” says crisis and despair. series of workshops and lectures that aim
Dr. Osotimehin. “I believe that with Ethiopia and Tanzania are areas where to educate survivors of abuse and enable
support from Johnson & Johnson, we can the risk to mothers and newborns is high, them to heal, so that they will be better
make an even bigger difference on the and the governments’ commitments equipped to re-enter the community, start
ground and save more lives.” to improving maternal-child health are working or build new relationships.
strong. H4+ and Johnson & Johnson are “If we could get connected to others
Building on a legacy of caring providing training programs in these areas who are able to provide support when it is
“The partnership with the H4+ is one for health care workers so critical care can needed, then I think we could change this
component of our response to the United reach mothers and newborns. world bit by bit,” says Sachi Nakajima, the
Nations Secretary General’s call to action organization’s founder and herself a
for a renewed global effort to achieve Working With community-Based survivor.
the Millennium Development Goals by organizations
2015,” says Joy Marini, Director, Corporate Johnson & Johnson is inspired by Our doing more as relationships gro W
Contributions, Johnson & Johnson. Credo to partner with hundreds of Many partner relationships grow over
“Our efforts are in keeping with our long- organizations in caring for people time in ways that contribute to people’s
standing commitment to the health and throughout the world. The Company lives, our planet and our business. One
well-being of mothers and children.” works with partners on over 700 programs such longstanding collaboration is with
While global maternal mortality has in more than 50 countries, helping to the World Wildlife Fund (WWF). More
been reduced by one-third in the past 20 implement new approaches that often than 10 years ago, Johnson & Johnson
years, H4+ members report that every enable these programs to expand and reach became an early adopter of the WWF
day, approximately 1,000 women die from more people. Employees around Climate Savers program. The Company
pregnancy complications and childbirth— the world volunteer their time, skills and set a goal to achieve a 7 percent absolute
20 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTcaring for Women and children Dr. Babatunde Osotimehin is Executive Director of UNFPA.
“Our greatest hope for the H4+ collaboration is that we will make a difference in the lives of the people we serve,” he says.
“If we bring all our efforts together in synergy, we can do a lot more than we can as individual organizations.”
reduction in CO2 emissions from WWF’s “Healthy Communities, Healthy same way, WWF has provided critical
1990–2010. As of 2010, Johnson & Johnson Ecosystems” program in Africa, which input about a responsible sourcing policy
surpassed the goal, achieving an absolute links the health of the environment to the for palm oil. Johnson & Johnson is working
reduction of more than 23 percent. health of local people. Johnson & Johnson with WWF to identify opportunities to
“Johnson & Johnson set a really high bar was also an early participant in WWF’s support projects that promote sustainable
at a time when other companies were not Global Forest & Trade Network, focused practices in the field.
setting greenhouse gas reduction targets,” on reliable, sustainable sourcing of “With Johnson & Johnson we are
says Suzanne Apple, Vice President, paper and wood products. While the working in a number of areas that are
Business & Industry, WWF. “It sent a strong Company is not in the paper or pulp important to both of us,” says Apple.
message to other companies to participate.” business, Apple says Johnson & Johnson “By joining forces, we can have a bigger
The collaboration expanded to again sent a strong message, this time to impact on creating a more sustainable
include a philanthropic commitment to suppliers that came to the table. In the future for our planet.”
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 21First row, left to right
Board of Directors
WILLIAM C. WELDON
Chairman, Board of Directors;
Chief Executive Officer; and
Chairman, Executive Committee
MARY SUE COLEMAN, PH.D.
President, University of Michigan
JAMES G. CULLEN
Retired President and Chief
Operating Officer, Bell Atlantic
Corporation
Second row, left to right
IAN E.L. DAVIS
Senior Advisor, Apax Partners;
Former Chairman and Worldwide
Managing Director, McKinsey &
Company
MICHAEL M.E. JOHNS, M.D.
Chancellor, Emory University
SUSAN L. LINDQUIST, PH.D.
Member and Former Director,
Whitehead Institute for
Biomedical Research; Professor
of Biology, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology
Third row, left to right
ANNE M. MULCAHY
Former Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer,
Xerox Corporation
LEO F. MULLIN
Retired Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer, Delta Air
Lines, Inc.
WILLIAM D. PEREZ
Senior Advisor, Greenhill & Co.,
Inc.; Retired President and
Chief Executive Officer,
Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company
Fourth row, left to right
CHARLES PRINCE
Retired Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer, Citigroup Inc.
DAVID SATCHER, M.D., PH.D.
Director, Center of Excellence
on Health Disparities; Director,
Satcher Health Leadership
Institute and Poussaint-Satcher-
Cosby Chair in Mental Health,
Morehouse School of Medicine;
Former U.S. Surgeon General
RONALD A. WILLIAMS
Former Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer, Aetna Inc.
22 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTNOMINATING & CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Committees of
The Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee,
composed entirely of independent Directors, is responsible
the Board
for overseeing corporate governance matters, reviewing
possible candidates for Board membership and recommending
nominees for election. The Committee is also responsible for
overseeing the process for performance evaluations of the Board
and its committees. Additionally, the Committee reviews the
Company’s executive succession plans and executive resources.
AUDIT
William D. Perez, Chairman
The Audit Committee, composed entirely of independent
James G. Cullen
Directors, helps the Board oversee the Company’s financial
Anne M. Mulcahy
accounting and reporting practices. It recommends the
Charles Prince
independent public auditor for appointment by the Board and
reviews its performance. In addition, the Committee monitors
the adequacy of internal accounting practices, procedures and PUBLIC POLICY
controls; reviews the Company’s financial reporting process The Public Policy Advisory Committee reviews the Company’s
and disclosure procedures; and helps the Board oversee the policies, programs and practices on public health issues
Company’s legal compliance programs. regarding the environment and the health and safety of
employees. The Committee also reviews the Company’s
James G. Cullen, Chairman
governmental affairs and policies and other public policy issues
Mary Sue Coleman, Ph.D.
facing the Company. The Committee advises and makes
Ian E.L. Davis
recommendations to the Board on these issues, as appropriate.
Leo F. Mullin
The Public Policy Advisory Committee is composed of
independent Directors; one of the Company’s Vice Chairmen,
COMPENSATION & BENEFITS Executive Committee; and the Vice Presidents for Global
The Compensation & Benefits Committee, composed entirely Corporate Affairs, Government Affairs and Policy, and
of independent Directors, establishes the Company’s executive Global Supply Chain.
compensation philosophy and principles and approves the
Leo F. Mullin, Chairman
annual compensation and long-term incentives for the
Ian E.L. Davis
Company’s directors and executive officers. The Committee
Susan L. Lindquist, Ph.D.
also reviews the philosophy and policies of the non-Board
David Satcher, M.D., Ph.D.
Management Compensation Committee, which determines
Ronald A. Williams
management compensation and establishes perquisites and
other compensation policies for non-executive employees. Alex Gorsky
Additionally, the Committee oversees the management of the Clifford E. Holland
various retirement, pension, long-term incentive, savings, Robert Salerno
health and welfare plans that cover the Company’s employees. Michael E. Sneed
Charles Prince, Chairman
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Michael M.E. Johns, M.D.
The Science and Technology Advisory Committee, composed
Anne M. Mulcahy
of independent Directors and the Company’s Vice President,
William D. Perez
Science and Technology, helps the Board with scientific matters
Ronald A. Williams
impacting the Company’s business, including monitoring the
strategy and effectiveness of the Company’s research and
FINANCE development organization; reviewing the effectiveness of
The Finance Committee exercises the authority of the Board scientific aspects of the Company’s product safety processes;
during the intervals between Board meetings. The Finance overseeing major business development activities related to the
Committee is composed of the Chairman of the Board and the acquisition of new science or technology; and identifying and
Presiding Director. understanding significant new science and technology policy
issues and trends.
William C. Weldon, Chairman
James G. Cullen David Satcher, M.D., Ph.D., Chairman
Mary Sue Coleman, Ph.D.
Michael M.E. Johns, M.D.
Susan L. Lindquist, Ph.D.
Garry A. Neil, M.D.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 23Board of Directors
CORPORATE OFFICERS EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
WILLIAM C. WELDON ALEX GORSKY The Executive Committee of Johnson & Johnson
Chairman, Board of Directors Vice Chairman
is the principal management group responsible
Chief Executive Officer Executive Committee
for the strategic operations and allocation of the
Chairman, Executive Committee
SHERILYN S. MCCOY resources of the Company. This Committee oversees
Vice Chairman and coordinates the activities of the Consumer,
DOMINIC J. CARUSO
Vice President, Finance Executive Committee Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices and Diagnostics
Chief Financial Officer business segments.
JOHN A. PAPA
Executive Committee Treasurer
DOUGLAS K. CHIA MICHAEL H. ULLMANN
Corporate Secretary Vice President
Assistant General Counsel General Counsel
Executive Committee
STEPHEN J. COSGROVE
Corporate Controller
Chief Accounting Officer
PETER M. FASOLO
Vice President
Global Human Resources
Executive Committee
WORLDWIDE CHAIRMEN COMPANY GROUP CHAIRMEN
JESSE J. WU CHARLES E. AUSTIN
CONSUMER GROUP
ROBERTO DE O. MARQUES
JOAQUIN DUATO MICHAEL J.F. DEL PRADO
PAUL STOFFELS, M.D.
GRACE DEL ROSARIO CASTANO
PHARMACEUTICALS GROUP
SETH H.Z. FISCHER
KAREN A. LICITRA GARY P. FISCHETTI
GLOBAL MEDICAL SOLUTIONS
JANE GRIFFITHS
GROUP
WILLIAM N. HAIT, M.D., PH.D.
GARY J. PRUDEN
JOSE ANTONIO JUSTINO
GLOBAL SURGERY GROUP
GUY J. LEBEAU, M.D.
ASHLEY McEVOY
PATRICK D. MUTCHLER
MICHEL PAUL
JACQUES PEETERS
PERICLES P. STAMATIADES
JENNIFER L. TAUBERT
KIM TAYLOR
NICHOLAS J. VALERIANI
24 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTCorporateGovernanceandManagement’sResponsibility
Johnson&JohnsonisguidedbythevaluessetforthinOurCredo, PricewaterhouseCoopersLLP,anindependentregisteredpublic
createdbyGeneralRobertWoodJohnsonin1943.Theseprinciples accountingfirm,isengagedtoperformanintegratedauditofour
haveguidedusovertheyearsandcontinuetosetthetoneof consolidatedfinancialstatementsandinternalcontroloverfinancial
integrityfortheentireCompany.Atalllevels,theemployeesof reporting.TheReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccounting
Johnson&Johnsonarecommittedtotheethicalprinciplesembod- Firmisonpage68.
iedinOurCredoandtheseprincipleshavebeenwovenintothe TheAuditCommitteeofourBoardofDirectorsiscomposed
fabricoftheCompany. solelyofindependentdirectorswiththefinancialknowledgeand
ThevaluesarticulatedinOurCredoextendtoouraccounting experiencetoprovideappropriateoversight.Wereviewinternal
andfinancialresponsibilitiestoJohnson&Johnsonshareholders controlmattersandkeyaccountingandfinancialreportingissues
andinvestors.We,themanagementofJohnson&Johnson,are withtheAuditCommitteeonaregularbasis.Inaddition,theinde-
responsiblefortheintegrityandobjectivityoftheaccompanying pendentauditors,theGeneralCounsel,theChiefFinancialOfficer,
financialstatementsandrelatedinformation.Wearealsoresponsi- theChiefComplianceOfficerandtheVicePresidentofInternal
bleforensuringthatfinancialdataisreportedaccuratelyandina AuditregularlymeetinprivatesessionswithourAuditCommittee
mannerthatfacilitatestheunderstandingofthisdata. todiscusstheresultsoftheirwork,includingobservationsonthe
Asevidenceofourcommitmenttothisresponsibility,we adequacyofinternalfinancialcontrols,thequalityoffinancial
maintainawell-designedsystemofinternalaccountingcontrols, reportingandconfirmationthattheyareproperlydischargingtheir
encouragestrongandeffectivecorporategovernancefromour responsibilitiesandotherrelevantmatters.
BoardofDirectors,continuouslyreviewourbusinessresultsand OurExecutiveCommitteeiscontinuouslyinvolvedinthe
strategicchoices,andfocusonfinancialstewardship. reviewoffinancialresultsaswellasdevelopingandunderstanding
Ourcorporatestaffofprofessionallytrainedinternalauditors, strategiesandkeyinitiativesforlong-termgrowth.Ourintentisto
whotravelworldwide,monitoroursystemofinternalaccounting ensurethatwemaintainobjectivityinourbusinessassessments,
controlsdesignedtoprovidereasonableassurancethatassetsare constructivelychallengetheapproachtobusinessopportunitiesand
safeguardedandthattransactionsandeventsarerecordedproperly. issues,andmonitorourbusinessresultsandtherelatedcontrols.
Ourinternalcontrolsincludeself-assessmentsandinternalreviews Ourconsolidatedfinancialstatementsandfinancialdatathat
ofouroperatingcompanies. followhavebeenpreparedinconformitywithaccountingprinciples
During2011,theCompanycontinuedtoinvestsignificanttime generallyacceptedintheUnitedStatesofAmericaandinclude
andresourcesinordertoensurecompliancewithSection404of amountsthatarebaseduponourbestjudgments.Wearecommit-
theSarbanes-OxleyActof2002.Basedontheworkperformed,we tedtopresentanddiscussresultsofoperationsinaclearand
haveconcludedthatourinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting transparentmannerinordertoprovidetimely,comprehensiveand
waseffectiveasofJanuary1,2012.WereferyoutoManagement’s understandableinformationtoourshareholders.
ReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReportingonpage69.
Werequirethemanagementteamsofouroperatingcompa-
niestocertifytheircompliancewithourPolicyonBusinessConduct,
whichsetsforththeCompany’scommitmenttoconductitsbusi-
nessaffairswithintegrityandcomplywiththegoverninglawsand
regulations.Wehaveasystematicprogramdesignedtoensure
compliancewiththesepoliciesandprovidemeansofreportingany
concernsaboutviolationsofthepolicy.Pleasevisitourwebsiteat WilliamC.Weldon DominicJ.Caruso
www.investor.jnj.com/governance/conduct.cfmtoviewourPolicy Chairman,BoardofDirectors, VicePresident,Finance,
onBusinessConduct. andChiefExecutiveOfficer andChiefFinancialOfficer
TableofContents
MANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSIS AUDITEDCONSOLIDATEDFINANCIALSTATEMENTS
26 OrganizationandBusinessSegments 37 ConsolidatedBalanceSheets
26 ResultsofOperations 38 ConsolidatedStatementsofEarnings
27 AnalysisofSalesbyBusinessSegments 39 ConsolidatedStatementsofEquity
29 AnalysisofConsolidatedEarningsBeforeProvision 40 ConsolidatedStatementsofCashFlows
forTaxesonIncome 41 NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements
32 LiquidityandCapitalResources 68 ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm
33 OtherInformation 69 Management’sReportonInternalControlOver
36 CautionaryFactorsThatMayAffectFutureResults FinancialReporting
SUPPORTINGSCHEDULES
70 SummaryofOperationsandStatisticalData2001–2011
71 ShareholderReturnPerformanceGraphs
72 ReconciliationofNon-GAAPFinancialMeasures
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 25Management’sDiscussionandAnalysisofResultsofOperationsandFinancialCondition
OrganizationandBusinessSegments MANAGEMENT’SOBJECTIVES
TheCompanymanageswithinastrategicframeworkaimedat
DESCRIPTIONOFTHECOMPANYANDBUSINESSSEGMENTS
achievingsustainablegrowth.Toaccomplishthis,theCompany’s
Johnson&Johnsonanditssubsidiaries(theCompany)have
managementoperatesthebusinessconsistentwithcertainstrate-
approximately117,900employeesworldwideengagedinthe
gicprinciplesthathaveprovensuccessfulovertime.Tothisend,the
researchanddevelopment,manufactureandsaleofabroadrange
Companyparticipatesingrowthareasinhumanhealthcareandis
ofproductsinthehealthcarefield.TheCompanyconductsbusiness
committedtoattainingleadershippositionsinthesegrowthareas
invirtuallyallcountriesoftheworldwiththeprimaryfocuson
throughthedevelopmentofhighquality,innovativeproductsand
productsrelatedtohumanhealthandwell-being.
services.Newproductsintroducedwithinthepastfiveyears
TheCompanyisorganizedintothreebusinesssegments:
accountedforapproximately25%of2011sales.In2011,$7.5billion,
Consumer,PharmaceuticalandMedicalDevicesandDiagnostics.
or11.6%ofsales,wasinvestedinresearchanddevelopment.This
TheConsumersegmentincludesabroadrangeofproductsusedin
investmentreflectsmanagement’scommitmenttotheimportance
thebabycare,skincare,oralcare,woundcareandwomen’shealth
ofongoingdevelopmentofnewanddifferentiatedproductsand
fields,aswellasnutritionalandover-the-counterpharmaceutical
servicestosustainlong-termgrowth.
productsandwellnessandpreventionplatforms.Theseproducts
Withmorethan250operatingcompanieslocatedin60
aremarketedtothegeneralpublicandsoldbothtoretailoutlets
countries,theCompanyviewsitsprincipleofdecentralizedman-
anddistributorsthroughouttheworld.ThePharmaceuticalsegment
agementasanassetandfundamentaltothesuccessofabroadly
includesproductsinthefollowingareas:anti-infective,antipsy-
basedbusiness.Italsofostersanentrepreneurialspirit,combining
chotic,contraceptive,dermatology,gastrointestinal,hematology,
theextensiveresourcesofalargeorganizationwiththeabilityto
immunology,neurology,oncology,painmanagement,thrombosis,
anticipateandreactquicklytolocalmarketchangesandchallenges.
vaccinesandinfectiousdiseases.Theseproductsaredistributed
TheCompanyiscommittedtodevelopingglobalbusinesslead-
directlytoretailers,wholesalersandhealthcareprofessionalsfor
erswhocanachievegrowthobjectives.Businessesaremanagedfor
prescriptionuse.TheMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegment
thelong-terminordertosustainleadershippositionsandachieve
includesabroadrangeofproductsdistributedtowholesalers,hos-
growththatprovidesanenduringsourceofvaluetoourshareholders.
pitalsandretailers,usedprincipallyintheprofessionalfieldsby
OurCredounifiesthemanagementteamandtheCompany’s
physicians,nurses,therapists,hospitals,diagnosticlaboratoriesand
dedicatedemployeesinachievingtheseobjectives,andprovidesa
clinics.TheseproductsincludeCardiovascularCare’selectrophysi-
commonsetofvaluesthatserveasaconstantreminderofthe
ologyandcirculatorydiseasemanagementproducts;DePuy’s
Company’sresponsibilitiestoitscustomers,employees,communi-
orthopaedicjointreconstruction,spinalcare,neurologicaland
tiesandshareholders.TheCompanybelievesthatthesebasic
sportsmedicineproducts;Ethicon’ssurgicalcare,aestheticsand
principles,alongwithitsoverallmissionofimprovingthequality
women’shealthproducts;EthiconEndo-Surgery’sminimallyinva-
oflifeforpeopleeverywhere,willenableJohnson&Johnsonto
sivesurgicalproductsandadvancedsterilizationproducts;Diabetes
continuetobeamongtheleadersinthehealthcareindustry.
Care’sbloodglucosemonitoringandinsulindeliveryproducts;
Ortho-ClinicalDiagnostics’professionaldiagnosticproductsand
ResultsofOperations
VisionCare’sdisposablecontactlenses.
TheCompany’sstructureisbasedupontheprincipleof
ANALYSISOFCONSOLIDATEDSALES
decentralizedmanagement.TheExecutiveCommitteeof In2011,worldwidesalesincreased5.6%to$65.0billion,compared
Johnson&Johnsonistheprincipalmanagementgroupresponsible todecreasesof0.5%in2010and2.9%in2009.Thesesales
forthestrategicoperationsandallocationoftheresourcesofthe changesconsistedofthefollowing:
Company.ThisCommitteeoverseesandcoordinatestheactivities
oftheConsumer,PharmaceuticalandMedicalDevicesand Sales(decrease)/increasedueto: 2011 2010 2009
Volume 3.1% (0.5) (0.2)
Diagnosticsbusinesssegments.
Inallofitsproductlines,theCompanycompeteswithcompa- Price (0.3) (0.8) (0.1)
niesbothlocallyandglobally,throughouttheworld.Competition Currency 2.8 0.8 (2.6)
existsinallproductlineswithoutregardtothenumberandsizeof Total 5.6% (0.5) (2.9)
thecompetingcompaniesinvolved.Competitioninresearch,involv-
ingthedevelopmentandtheimprovementofnewandexisting SalesbyU.S.companieswere$28.9billionin2011,$29.5billionin
productsandprocesses,isparticularlysignificant.Thedevelopment 2010and$30.9billionin2009.Thisrepresentsdecreasesof1.8%
ofnewandinnovativeproductsisimportanttotheCompany’ssuc- in2011,4.7%in2010and4.4%in2009.Salesbyinternational
cessinallareasofitsbusiness.Thisalsoincludesprotectingthe companieswere$36.1billionin2011,$32.1billionin2010and
Company’sportfolioofintellectualproperty.Thecompetitiveenvi- $31.0billionin2009.Thisrepresentsanincreaseof12.4%in2011,
ronmentrequiressubstantialinvestmentsincontinuingresearchand anincreaseof3.6%in2010andadecreaseof1.4%in2009.
inmaintainingsalesforces.Inaddition,thedevelopmentandmain-
tenanceofcustomerdemandfortheCompany’sconsumerproducts
involvessignificantexpendituresforadvertisingandpromotion.
26 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTintheminimumMedicaidrebateratefrom15.1%to23.1%andalso
70
U.S.and
extendedtherebatetodrugsprovidedthroughMedicaidmanaged
InternationalSales 60
careorganizations.Additionally,in2011,discountswereprovided
for10Years
(inbillionsofdollars) 50 ontheCompany’sbrand-namedrugstopatientswhofallwithinthe
MedicarePartDcoveragegap“donuthole.”Theimpactwasan
40
U.S. increaseinsalesrebatesreducingsalesrevenuebyapproximately
International 30 $425millionand$400millionin2011and2010,respectively.
In2011,companiesthatsellbrandedprescriptiondrugstospeci-
20
fiedU.S.Governmentprogramspaidanannualnon-taxdeductiblefee
10
basedonanallocationofthecompany’smarketshareoftotalbranded
0 ’01 ’02 ’03 ’04 ’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 prescriptiondrugsalesfromtheprioryear.The2011fullyearimpactto
selling,marketingandadministrativeexpenseswas$140million.Under
thecurrentlaw,beginningin2013,theCompanywillberequiredtopay
Thefive-yearcompoundannualgrowthratesforworldwide, ataxdeductible2.3%excisetaximposedonthesaleofcertainmedical
U.S.andinternationalsaleswere4.0%,(0.6)%and8.9%,respec- devices.The2013taxisestimatedtobebetween$200–$250million
tively.Theten-yearcompoundannualgrowthratesforworldwide, andwillberecordedinselling,marketingandadministrativeexpenses.
U.S.andinternationalsaleswere7.2%,3.8%and11.2%,respectively.
Salesby 70
70 Segment
Salesby 60
Geographic (inbillionsofdollars)
60
Region 50
(inbillionsofdollars) 50
Consumer 40
Pharmaceutical
U.S. 40 MedicalDevices 30
E Wu ero sp tee rnHemisphere 30 andDiagnostics 20
excludingU.S.
20
Asia Pacific,Africa 10
10
0 ’09 ’10 ’11
0
’09 ’10 ’11
AnalysisofSalesbyBusinessSegments
SalesinEuropeachievedgrowthof10.4%ascomparedtothe
prioryear,includingoperationalgrowthof5.3%andapositiveimpact CONSUMERSEGMENT
fromcurrencyof5.1%.SalesintheWesternHemisphere(excluding Consumersegmentsalesin2011were$14.9billion,anincreaseof
theU.S.)achievedgrowthof15.6%ascomparedtotheprioryear, 2.0%from2010,a0.7%operationaldeclinewasoffsetbyapositive
includingoperationalgrowthof12.2%andapositiveimpactfrom currencyimpactof2.7%.U.S.Consumersegmentsaleswere
currencyof3.4%.SalesintheAsia-Pacific,Africaregionachieved $5.2billion,adecreaseof6.7%.Internationalsaleswere$9.7billion,
growthof13.5%ascomparedtotheprioryear,includingoperational anincreaseof7.3%,whichincluded2.9%operationalgrowthanda
growthof6.6%andapositiveimpactfromcurrencyof6.9%. positivecurrencyimpactof4.4%.
In2011,2010and2009,theCompanydidnothaveacustomer TheOver-the-Counter(OTC)PharmaceuticalsandNutritionals
thatrepresented10%ormoreoftotalconsolidatedrevenues. franchisesaleswere$4.4billion,adecreaseof3.2%from2010.
The2009resultsbenefitedfromtheinclusionofa53rdweek. SalesintheU.S.werenegativelyimpactedbythesuspensionofpro-
(SeeNote1totheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsforAnnual ductionatMcNeilConsumerHealthcare’sFortWashington,Penn-
ClosingDatedetails).TheCompanyestimatedthatthefiscalyear sylvaniafacilityaswellastheimpactonproductionvolumesrelated
2009growthratewasenhancedbyapproximately0.5%duetothe toongoingeffortstoenhancequalityandmanufacturingsystemsat
53rdweek. itsothermanufacturingsites.
Duringthefiscalfirstquarterof2011,aconsentdecreewas
U.S.HEALTHCAREREFORM signedwiththeU.S.FoodandDrugAdministration(FDA),whichgov-
ThePatientProtectionandAffordableCareActandtheHealthCare ernscertainMcNeilConsumerHealthcaremanufacturingoperations.
andEducationReconciliationActof2010weresignedintolawin Theconsentdecreeidentifiesproceduresthatwillhelpprovideaddi-
March2010.Thehealthcarereformlegislationincludedanincrease tionalassuranceofproductqualitytotheFDA.McNeilcontinuesto
MajorConsumerFranchiseSales:
%Change
(DollarsinMillions) 2011 2010 2009 ’11vs.’10 ’10vs.’09
OTCPharmaceuticals&Nutritionals $ 4,402 4,549 5,630 (3.2)% (19.2)
SkinCare 3,715 3,452 3,467 7.6 (0.4)
BabyCare 2,340 2,209 2,115 5.9 4.4
Women’sHealth 1,792 1,844 1,895 (2.8) (2.7)
OralCare 1,624 1,526 1,569 6.4 (2.7)
WoundCare/Other 1,010 1,010 1,127 0.0 (10.4)
Total $14,883 14,590 15,803 2.0% (7.7)
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 27operatethemanufacturingfacilitiesinLasPiedras,PuertoRicoand PROCRIT®(Epoetinalfa)andEPREX®(Epoetinalfa)hadcom-
Lancaster,Pennsylvania,howeverproductionvolumesfromthesefacil- binedsalesof$1.6billionin2011,adeclineof16.1%comparedtothe
itieshavebeenimpactedduetotheadditionalreviewandapproval prioryear.LowersalesofPROCRIT®andEPREX®wereprimarilydue
processesrequired.Regardingtheproductspreviouslyproducedatthe toadecliningmarketforErythropoiesisStimulatingAgents(ESAs)
FortWashingtonfacility,McNeilcontinuestoworkonthere-sitingof andincreasedcompetitionforEPREX®.
theseproductstootherfacilities.McNeilismakingprogressonthe RISPERDAL®CONSTA®(risperidone),along-actinginjectable
validationsatthesealternativesitesandamodestamountofproducts antipsychotic,achievedsalesof$1.6billionin2011,representingan
returnedtothemarketinthefourthquarterof2011.Productswill increaseof5.5%ascomparedtotheprioryearduetointernational
continuetobereintroducedthroughout2012and2013. growth.TotalU.S.salesoftheCompany’slong-actinginjectables,
TheSkinCarefranchiseachievedsalesof$3.7billionin2011, includingRISPERDAL®CONSTA®andINVEGA®SUSTENNA®
a7.6%increaseascomparedttootheprioryearprimarilyduetogrowth (paliperidonepalmitate),increasedbystrongdoubledigitsversus
intheNEUTROGENA®,DABAO®,JOHNSON’S®AdultandLEPETIT ayearagoduetoanincreaseintheCompany’scombinedmarket
MARSEILLAIS®productlines.TheBabyCarefranchisesalesgrew shareintheantipsychoticmarket.
by5.9%to$2.3billionin2011,primarilyduetogrowthincleansers, VELCADE®(bortezomib),aproductforthetreatmentof
wipesandhaircare.TheWomen’sHealthfranchisesaleswere multiplemyeloma,forwhichtheCompanyhascommercialrights
$1.8billion,adecreaseof2.8%primarilyimpactedbythedivestiture inmarketsoutsidetheU.S.,achievedsalesof$1.3billionin2011,
ofcertainbrands.TheOralCarefranchisesalesgrewby6.4%to representinganincreaseof18.0%primarilyduetostronggrowth
$1.6billionin2011,primarilyduetoincreasedsalesofLISTERINE® inAsiaandLatinAmerica.
products.TheWoundCare/Otherfranchisesaleswere$1.0billion CONCERTA®(methylphenidateHCl)saleswere$1.3billion,a
in2011,flatascomparedtotheprioryear. declineof3.9%comparedtotheprioryear.TheU.S.supplyanddis-
Consumersegmentsalesin2010were$14.6billion,adecrease tributionagreementwithWatsonLaboratories,Inc.todistributean
of7.7%from2009,with8.9%ofthischangeduetoanoperational authorizedgenericversionofCONCERTA®becameeffectiveMay1,
declinepartiallyoffsetbypositivecurrencyimpactof1.2%.U.S.Con- 2011.AllregionsoutsidetheU.S.achievedsalesgrowth.
sumersegmentsaleswere$5.5billion,adecreaseof19.3%.Interna- PREZISTA®(darunavir),aproteaseinhibitorforthetreatment
tionalsaleswere$9.1billion,anincreaseof1.2%,withanoperational ofHIV,achievedsalesof$1.2billionin2011,representingan
declineof1.0%offsetbypositivecurrencyimpactof2.2%. increaseof41.3%ascomparedtotheprioryearprimarilydueto
marketsharegrowth.
PHARMACEUTICALSEGMENT ACIPHEX®/PARIET®(rabeprazolesodium)saleswere
ThePharmaceuticalsegmentachievedsalesof$24.4billionin2011, $1.0billion,adeclineof3.1%versustheprioryearduetoincreased
representinganincreaseof8.8%overtheprioryear,withopera- competitionfromgenericsinthecategory.
tionalgrowthof6.2%andapositivecurrencyimpactof2.6%. LEVAQUIN®(levofloxacin)/FLOXIN®(ofloxacin)saleswere
U.S.saleswere$12.4billion,adecreaseof1.1%.International $0.6billion,adeclineof54.1%versustheprioryearduetotheloss
saleswere$12.0billion,anincreaseof21.3%,whichincluded ofmarketexclusivityintheU.S.inJune2011.LEVAQUIN®sales
15.5%operationalgrowthandapositivecurrencyimpactof5.8%. willcontinuetodeclineinthefirsthalfof2012versusthefirsthalf
REMICADE®(infliximab),abiologicapprovedforthetreatment of2011.
ofanumberofimmunemediatedinflammatorydiseases,achieved In2011,OtherPharmaceuticalsaleswere$10.3billion,repre-
salesof$5.5billionin2011,withgrowthof19.1%overtheprioryear.On sentinggrowthof18.2%overtheprioryear.Contributorstothe
acombinedbasis,U.S.exportandinternationalsalesofREMICADE® increaseweresalesofnewlyacquiredproductsfromCrucellN.V.
increasednearly50%duetotheimpactoftheagreementwithMerck (Crucell)andnewlyapprovedproductsincludingZYTIGA®
&Co.,Inc.(Merck),complementedbyinternationalmarketgrowth. (abirateroneacetate)andINCIVO®(telaprevir).Additionalcontrib-
OnApril15,2011,theCompanyannounceditreachedanagreement utorstothegrowthwereSTELARA®(ustekinumab),INVEGA®
withMerckwhichincludeddistributionrightstoREMICADE®and SUSTENNA®(paliperidonepalmitate),SIMPONI®(golimumab),
SIMPONI®(golimumab)whereby,effectiveJuly1,2011,certainterrito- NUCYNTA®(tapentadol),andINTELENCE®(etravirine).This
rieswererelinquishedtotheCompany.OnJuly1,2011,theCompany growthwaspartiallyoffsetbylowersalesofDURAGESIC®/Fentanyl
begantorecordsalesofproduct,previouslyrecordedbyMerck,from Transdermal(fentanyltransdermalsystem),andTOPAMAX®
certainterritories,includingCanada,Brazil,AustraliaandMexico, (topiramate)duetocontinuedgenericcompetition.
whichwerepreviouslysuppliedbyMerck.
MajorPharmaceuticalProductSales*:
%Change
(DollarsinMillions) 2011 2010 2009 ’11vs.’10 ’10vs.’09
REMICADE®(infliximab) $ 5,492 4,610 4,304 19.1% 7.1
PROCRIT®/EPREX®(Epoetinalfa) 1,623 1,934 2,245 (16.1) (13.9)
RISPERDAL®CONSTA®(risperidone) 1,583 1,500 1,425 5.5 5.3
VELCADE®(bortezomib) 1,274 1,080 933 18.0 15.8
CONCERTA®(methylphenidateHCl) 1,268 1,319 1,326 (3.9) (0.5)
PREZISTA®(darunavir) 1,211 857 592 41.3 44.8
ACIPHEX®/PARIET®(rabeprazolesodium) 975 1,006 1,096 (3.1) (8.2)
LEVAQUIN®/FLOXIN®(levofloxacin/ofloxacin) 623 1,357 1,550 (54.1) (12.5)
OtherPharmaceuticals 10,319 8,733 9,049 18.2 (3.5)
Total $24,368 22,396 22,520 8.8% (0.6)
*Prioryearamountshavebeenreclassifiedtoconformtocurrentpresentation.
28 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTDuring2011,theCompanyreceivedseveralregulatoryapprovals TheEthiconEndo-Surgeryfranchiseachievedsalesof$5.1billion
including:U.S.approvalfortwoindicationsforXARELTO®(rivaroxa- in2011,a6.8%increaseovertheprioryear.Growthwasattributable
ban),ananti-coagulantco-developedwithBayerHealthCare,the toincreasedsalesofAdvancedSterilizationandHARMONIC®prod-
firstonefortheprevention(prophylaxis)ofdeepveinthrombosis uctlines,andoutsidetheU.S.,theEndoMechanicalproductline.
(DVT)whichmayleadtoapulmonaryembolism(PE)inpeople Additionally,salesofnewlyacquiredproductsfromSterilMedcon-
undergoingkneeorhipreplacementsurgery,andthesecondoneto tributedtothegrowth.Totalgrowthwasnegativelyimpactedbythe
reducetheriskofstrokeandsystemicembolisminpatientswithnon- divestitureoftheBreastCarebusinessinthethirdquarterof2010.
valvularatrialfibrulation;EDURANT®(rilpivirine),inboththeU.S. TheEthiconfranchiseachievedsalesof$4.9billionin2011,
andtheEuropeanUnion(EU),forHIVintreatment-naïvepatients; an8.2%increaseovertheprioryear.Emergingmarketgrowth
INCIVO®(telaprevir),intheEUforthetreatmentofhepatitisCvirus; insutures,newlylaunchedproductsETHICONPHYSIOMESH®and
andZYTIGA®(abirateroneacetate),intheU.S.andEU,forthetreat- ETHICONSECURESTRAP™,andgrowthinthebiosurgical,Women’s
mentofmetasticcastration-resistantprostatecancer.Inaddition, HealthandUrologyandAcclarentproductlinescontributedtothe
theFDAapprovedadditionalindicationsforREMICADE®(inflix- increaseinsales.
imab),forthetreatmentofmoderatelytoseverelyactiveulcerative TheVisionCarefranchiseachievedsalesof$2.9billionin2011,
colitisinpediatricpatients,andNUCYNTA®ER(tapentadol) an8.8%increaseovertheprioryear.Contributorstothegrowth
extended-releasetablets,anoralanalgesic,forthemanagementof were1-DAYACUVUE®andastigmatismlenses.
moderatetoseverechronicpaininadults. TheDiabetesCarefranchiseachievedsalesof$2.7billionin
TheCompanysubmittedNewDrugApplications(NDAs)to 2011,a7.4%increaseovertheprioryear.Thegrowthwasprimarily
theFDAseekingapprovalfortheuseofXARELTO®(rivaroxaban), duetosalesintheOneTouch®productline.
anoralanticoagulant,toreducetheriskofthromboticcardio- SalesintheCardiovascularCarefranchisewere$2.3billion,a
vasculareventsinpatientswithAcuteCoronarySyndrome,andfor declineof10.3%versustheprioryear.Saleswereimpactedbythe
NUCYNTA®ER(tapentadol)extended-releasetablets,anoral Company’sdecisiontoexitthedrug-elutingstentmarketandlower
analgesic,forthemanagementofneuropathicpainassociatedwith salesofendovascularproductsduetoincreasedcompetition.Sales
diabeticperipheralneuropathyinadults. fordrug-elutingstentswereapproximately11%and25%ofthetotal
Pharmaceuticalsegmentsalesin2010were$22.4billion,a CardiovascularCarefranchisesalesin2011and2010,respectively.
decreaseof0.6%from2009,withanoperationaldeclineof1.0% Thedeclineinsaleswaspartiallyoffsetbystronggrowthin
andapositivecurrencyimpactof0.4%.U.S.saleswere$12.5billion, BiosenseWebster,theCompany’selectrophysiologybusiness.
adecreaseof4.0%.Internationalsaleswere$9.9billion,an TheOrtho-ClinicalDiagnosticsfranchiseachievedsalesof
increaseof4.2%,whichincluded3.4%operationalgrowthanda $2.2billionin2011,a5.4%increaseovertheprioryear.Thegrowth
positivecurrencyimpactof0.8%. wasprimarilyattributabletothestrengthoftheVITROS®5600and
3600Analyzers,partiallyoffsetbylowersalesindonorscreening.
MEDICALDEVICESANDDIAGNOSTICSSEGMENT TheMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegmentachievedsales
TheMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegmentachievedsalesof of$24.6billionin2010,representinganincreaseof4.4%overthe
$25.8billionin2011,representinganincreaseof4.8%overtheprior prioryear,withoperationalgrowthof3.4%andapositivecurrency
year,withoperationalgrowthof1.7%andapositivecurrencyimpact impactof1.0%.U.S.saleswere$11.4billion,anincreaseof3.6%
of3.1%.U.S.saleswere$11.4billion,adecreaseof0.4%ascom- overtheprioryear.Internationalsaleswere$13.2billion,anincrease
paredtotheprioryear.Internationalsaleswere$14.4billion,an of5.0%overtheprioryear,withgrowthof3.0%fromoperations
increaseof9.2%overtheprioryear,withoperationalgrowthof andapositivecurrencyimpactof2.0%.
3.4%andapositivecurrencyimpactof5.8%.
TheDePuyfranchiseachievedsalesof$5.8billionin2011,a AnalysisofConsolidatedEarnings
4.0%increaseovertheprioryear.Thisgrowthwasprimarilydueto
BeforeProvisionforTaxesonIncome
salesofMiteksportsmedicineandtraumaproductlines,andnewly
acquiredproductsfromMicrus.Thegrowthwaspartiallyoffsetby Consolidatedearningsbeforeprovisionfortaxesonincome
lowersalesofkneesandhipsintheU.S.duetoincreasedcompeti- decreasedby$4.5billionto$12.4billionin2011ascomparedto
tion,continuedpricingpressure,asoftermarketandtheimpactof $16.9billionin2010,adecreaseof27.1%.Thedecreasewasprimarily
theDePuyASR™Hiprecall. duetocostsassociatedwithproductliabilityandlitigationexpenses,
theimpactoftheOTCandDePuyASR™Hiprecallsandtherestruc-
turingexpenserelatedtotheCardiovascularCarebusiness.Addi-
tionally,investmentspending,thefeeonbrandedpharmaceutical
MajorMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticsFranchiseSales:
%Change
(DollarsinMillions) 2011 2010 2009 ’11vs.’10 ’10vs.’09
DEPUY® $ 5,809 5,585 5,372 4.0% 4.0
ETHICONENDO-SURGERY® 5,080 4,758 4,492 6.8 5.9
ETHICON® 4,870 4,503 4,122 8.2 9.2
VisionCare 2,916 2,680 2,506 8.8 6.9
DiabetesCare 2,652 2,470 2,440 7.4 1.2
CardiovascularCare* 2,288 2,552 2,679 (10.3) (4.7)
ORTHO-CLINICALDIAGNOSTICS® 2,164 2,053 1,963 5.4 4.6
Total $25,779 24,601 23,574 4.8% 4.4
*PreviouslyreferredtoasCORDIS®
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 29productsincurredduetotheU.S.healthcarereformlegislation,and In2011,costofproductssoldasapercenttosalesincreasedcom-
theintegrationcosts,includinganinventorystep-upcharge,associ- paredtotheprioryear.Thiswasprimarilyattributabletoongoing
atedwiththeacquisitionofCrucellcontributedtothedecreasein remediationcostsintheConsumerOTCbusinessandinventory
earnings.Thiswaspartiallyoffsetbygainsfromdivestitures. write-offsduetotherestructuringoftheCardiovascularCarebusi-
The2010increaseof7.6%ascomparedto2009wasprimarily ness.Inaddition,lowermarginsandintegrationcosts,includingan
relatedtolowerselling,marketingandadministrativeexpensesdue inventorystep-upcharge,associatedwiththeacquisitionofCrucell
tocostcontainmentactionsresultingfromtherestructuringplanini- negativelyimpactedcostofproductssold.Percenttosalesofsell-
tiatedandimplementedin2009,incomefromlitigationsettlements ing,marketingandadministrativeexpensesincreasedin2011com-
andthegainonthedivestitureoftheBreastCarebusinessofEthicon paredtotheprioryearprimarilyduetoinvestmentspending,aswell
Endo-Surgery,Inc.Thiswaspartiallyoffsetbycostsassociatedwith asthefeeonbrandedpharmaceuticalproductsincurredduetothe
productliabilityexpenseandtheimpactoftheOTCandDePuy U.S.healthcarereformlegislation.
ASR™Hiprecalls.Additionaloffsetswerelowernetsellingpricesin In2010,costofproductssoldasapercenttosalesincreased
thePharmaceuticalbusinessduetoU.S.healthcarereformlegisla- comparedtotheprioryearprimarilyduetocostsassociatedwith
tionandpricereductionsincertainMedicalDevicesandDiagnostics theimpactoftheOTCrecallandremediationeffortsintheCon-
businesses.The2009decreaseof6.9%ascomparedto2008 sumerbusiness,lowernetsellingpricesinthePharmaceuticalbusi-
wasprimarilyrelatedtolowersales,thenegativeimpactofproduct nessduetoU.S.healthcarereformlegislationandpricereductions
mix,lowerinterestincomeduetolowerratesofinterestearned incertainMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticsbusinesses.Addition-
andrestructuringchargesof$1.2billion.Thiswaspartiallyoffsetby ally,unfavorableproductmixattributabletothelossofmarket
lowerselling,marketingandadministrativeexpensesduetocost exclusivityforTOPAMAX®contributedtotheincrease.Therewasa
containmenteffortsacrossallthebusinesses.Asapercenttosales, decreaseinthepercenttosalesofselling,marketingandadminis-
consolidatedearningsbeforeprovisionfortaxesonincomein2011 trativeexpensesin2010comparedtotheprioryearprimarilydueto
was19.0%versus27.5%in2010. costcontainmentinitiativesprincipallyresultingfromtherestruc-
Thesectionsthatfollowhighlightthesignificantcomponents turingplanimplementedin2009.Thedecreasewaspartiallyoffset
ofthechangesinconsolidatedearningsbeforeprovisionfortaxes bylowernetsellingpricesinthePharmaceuticalbusinessdueto
onincome. U.S.healthcarereformlegislationandpricereductionsincertain
MedicalDevicesandDiagnosticsbusinesses.
CostofProductsSoldandSelling,MarketingandAdministrative
In2009,costofproductssoldasapercenttosalesincreased
Expenses:Costofproductssoldandselling,marketingand
comparedtotheprioryearprimarilyduetothecontinuednegative
administrativeexpensesasapercenttosaleswereasfollows:
impactofproductmixandinventorywrite-offsassociatedwith
%ofSales 2011 2010 2009 therestructuringactivity.Additionally,2008includedcertainnon-
Costofproductssold 31.3% 30.5 29.8 recurringpositiveitems.Therewasadecreaseinthepercentto
Percentpointincreaseovertheprioryear 0.8 0.7 0.7 salesofselling,marketingandadministrativeexpensesin2009
comparedtotheprioryearprimarilyduetocostcontainmentefforts
Selling,marketingandadministrativeexpenses 32.3 31.5 32.0
acrossallthebusinessesandtheannualizedsavingsrecognized
Percentpointincrease/(decrease)overthe
fromthe2007restructuringprogram.Inaddition,in2008the
prioryear 0.8 (0.5) (1.7)
Companyutilizedtheproceedsassociatedwiththedivestitureof
theProfessionalWoundCarebusinessofEthicon,Inc.tofund
increasedinvestmentspending.
ResearchandDevelopmentexpensebysegmentofbusinesswasasfollows:
2011 2010 2009
(DollarsinMillions) Amount %ofSales* Amount %ofSales* Amount %ofSales*
Consumer $ 659 4.4% 609 4.2 632 4.0
Pharmaceutical 5,138 21.1 4,432 19.8 4,591 20.4
MedicalDevicesandDiagnostics 1,751 6.8 1,803 7.3 1,763 7.5
Totalresearchanddevelopmentexpense $7,548 11.6% 6,844 11.1 6,986 11.3
Percentincrease/(decrease)overtheprioryear 10.3% (2.0) (7.8)
*Asapercenttosegmentsales
ResearchandDevelopmentExpense:Researchanddevelopment Restructuring:In2011,CordisCorporation,asubsidiaryof
activitiesrepresentasignificantpartoftheCompany’sbusiness. Johnson&Johnson,announcedthediscontinuationofitsclinical
Theseexpendituresrelatetotheprocessesofdiscovering,testing developmentprogramfortheNEVO™Sirolimus-ElutingCoronary
anddevelopingnewproducts,improvingexistingproducts,aswell StentandcessationofthemanufactureandmarketingofCYPHER®
asensuringproductefficacyandregulatorycompliancepriorto andCYPHERSELECT®PlusSirolimus-ElutingCoronaryStentsby
launch.TheCompanyremainscommittedtoinvestinginresearch theendof2011.TheCompanywillfocusonothercardiovascular
anddevelopmentwiththeaimofdeliveringhighqualityandinnova- therapieswheresignificantpatientneedsexist.Inthefiscalsecond
tiveproducts.In2011,worldwidecostsofresearchanddevelopment quarterof2011,theCompanyrecordedapre-taxchargeof$676
activitiesincreasedby10.3%comparedto2010.Theincreasein million,ofwhich$87millionisincludedincostofproductssold.
thePharmaceuticalsegmentwasprimarilyduetohigherlevelsof In2009,theCompanyannouncedglobalrestructuringinitiatives
spendingtoadvancetheCompany’sPharmaceuticalpipeline.The expectedtogeneratepre-tax,annualcostsavingsofapproximately
decreaseintheMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegmentwasdue $1.5billionwhenfullyimplemented.Theassociatedsavingshaspro-
tothediscontinuationofitsclinicaldevelopmentprogramforthe videdadditionalresourcestoinvestinnewgrowthplatforms,ensure
NEVO™Sirolimus-ElutingCoronaryStent. thesuccessfullaunchoftheCompany’smanynewproductsand
30 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTcontinuedgrowthofthecorebusinesses,andprovideflexibilityto costsassociatedwiththerecallofcertainOTCproductspartially
adjusttothechangedandevolvingglobalenvironment.Inthefiscal offsetbythegainonthedivestitureofMONISTAT®.In2010,
fourthquarterof2009,theCompanyrecordedapre-taxchargeof Consumersegmentoperatingprofitdecreased5.4%from2009.
$1.2billion,ofwhich$113millionwasincludedincostofproductssold. Theprimaryreasonsforthedecreaseintheoperatingprofitwere
SeeNote22totheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsfor lowersalesandhighercostsassociatedwiththerecallofcertain
additionaldetailsrelatedtotherestructuring. OTCproductsandthesuspensionofproductionatMcNeil
ConsumerHealthcare’sFortWashington,Pennsylvaniafacility.
Other(Income)Expense,Net:Other(income)expense,net
includesroyaltyincome;gainsandlossesrelatedtothesaleand PharmaceuticalSegment:In2011,Pharmaceuticalsegment
write-downofcertaininvestmentsinequitysecuritiesheldby operatingprofitdecreased9.6%from2010.Theprimarydriversof
Johnson&JohnsonDevelopmentCorporation;gainsandlosseson thedecreaseintheoperatingprofitmarginwerehigherlitigation
thedisposalofproperty,plantandequipment;currencygainsand expensesrecordedin2011,theimpactoftheU.S.healthcare
losses;non-controllinginterestsandlitigationsettlements.In2011, reformfee,andlowermarginsandintegrationcosts,includingan
theunfavorablechangeof$3.5billioninother(income)expense, inventorystep-upcharge,associatedwiththeCrucellacquisition.
net,wasprimarilyduetolitigationexpensesof$1.7billionin2011as ThiswaspartiallyoffsetbygainsonthedivestituresoftheAnimal
comparedtoa$1.0billionnetgainfromlitigationsettlementsin HealthBusinessandOrthoDermatologics,thegainrelatedtothe
2010.Additionally,2011ascomparedto2010includedhigher Company’searlierinvestmentinCrucell,andlowermanufacturing
expensesof$1.0billionrelatedtoproductliability,$0.2billionfor costs.In2010,Pharmaceuticalsegmentoperatingprofitincreased
costsrelatedtotheDePuyASR™Hiprecallprogramandanadjust- 10.5%from2009.Theprimaryreasonsfortheincreaseinoperating
mentof$0.5billiontothevalueofthecurrencyoptionanddeal profitwerelowermanufacturingcosts,thegainonadivestiture,and
costsrelatedtotheplannedacquisitionofSynthes,Inc.Included benefitsfromcostimprovementinitiativesrelatedtotherestruc-
in2011werehighergainsonthedivestituresofbusinessesof turingplanimplementedin2009,partiallyoffsetby$333million
$0.6billionascomparedto2010. ofexpenserelatedtolitigationmatters,increasedproductliability
In2010,thefavorablechangeof$0.2billioninother(income) expenseandtheimpactofthenewlyenactedU.S.healthcare
expense,netascomparedto2009,wasprimarilyduetoanetgain reformlegislation.
fromlitigationsettlementsandgainsonthedivestitureofbusinesses
MedicalDevicesandDiagnosticsSegment:In2011,Medical
partiallyoffsetbyproductliabilityexpense.In2009,other(income)
DevicesandDiagnosticssegmentoperatingprofitdecreased36.4%
expense,netincludednetlitigationsettlementsof$0.4billion.
from2010.Theprimarydriversofthedeclineintheoperatingprofit
marginintheMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegmentwereprod-
OPERATINGPROFITBYSEGMENT
uctliabilityandlitigationexpenses,costsassociatedwiththeDePuy
Operatingprofitsbysegmentofbusinesswereasfollows:
ASR™Hiprecallprogram,restructuringexpense,costsincurred
Percentof relatedtotheplannedacquisitionofSynthes,Inc.andincreased
SegmentSales investmentspending.In2010,MedicalDevicesandDiagnostics
(DollarsinMillions) 2011 2010 2011 2010 segmentoperatingprofitincreased7.5%from2009.Theimproved
Consumer $ 2,096 2,342 14.1% 16.1 operatingprofitwasduetoagainof$1.3billionfromnetlitigation
Pharmaceutical 6,406 7,086 26.3 31.6 mattersandthegainonthedivestitureoftheBreastCarebusiness
MedicalDevicesand recordedin2010.Thiswaspartiallyoffsetbyincreasedproduct
Diagnostics 5,263 8,272 20.4 33.6 liabilityexpense,$280millionofcostsassociatedwiththeDePuy
Total(1) 13,765 17,700 21.2 28.7 ASR™HiprecallprogramandpricereductionsincertainMedical
Less:Expensesnotallocated DevicesandDiagnosticsbusinesses.
tosegments(2) 1,404 753
Interest(Income)Expense:Interestincomein2011decreasedby
Earningsbeforeprovision
$16millionascomparedtotheprioryearduetolowerratesofinter-
fortaxesonincome $12,361 16,947 19.0% 27.5
estearneddespitehigheraveragecashbalances.Cash,cashequiva-
(1)SeeNote18totheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsformoredetails. lentsandmarketablesecuritiestotaled$32.3billionattheendof
(2)Amountsnotallocatedtosegmentsincludeinterest(income)expense,non-controlling 2011,andaveraged$30.0billionascomparedtothe$23.6billion
interests,andgeneralcorporate(income)expense.Includedin2011,wasa$0.5billion
averagecashbalancein2010.Theincreaseintheaveragecashbal-
expensefortheadjustmenttothevalueofthecurrencyoptionrelatedtotheplanned
acquisitionofSynthes,Inc. ancewasprimarilyduetocashgeneratedfromoperatingactivities
andnetcashproceedsfromdivestitures.
OperatingProfit 18 Interestexpensein2011increasedby$116millionascompared
bySegment to2010duetoahigheraveragedebtbalance.Thetotaldebtbalance
(inbillionsofdollars) 15 attheendof2011was$19.6billionascomparedto$16.8billionat
theendof2010.Thehigheraveragedebtbalanceof$18.2billionin
12
Consumer 2011versus$15.7billionin2010wasduetoincreasedborrowings.
Pharmaceutical 9 TheCompanyincreasedborrowings,capitalizingonfavorableterms
MedicalDevices
inthecapitalmarkets.Theproceedsoftheborrowingswereused
andDiagnostics
6 forgeneralcorporatepurposes.
Interestincomein2010increasedby$17millionovertheprior
3
yearduetohigheraveragecashbalances.Cash,cashequivalents
0 ’09 ’10 ’11 andmarketablesecuritiestotaled$27.7billionattheendof2010,
andaveraged$23.6billionascomparedtothe$15.6billionaverage
cashbalancein2009.Theincreaseintheaveragecashbalancewas
ConsumerSegment:In2011,Consumersegmentoperatingprofit
primarilyduetocashgeneratedfromoperatingactivitiesandnet
decreased10.5%from2010.Theprimarydriversofthedeclinein
cashproceedsfromlitigationmattersanddivestitures.
operatingprofitwereunfavorableproductmixandremediation
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 31Interestexpensein2010wasrelativelyflatascomparedto Operating 18
2009duetoaloweraverageratedespiteahigherdebtbalance.The CashFlowand
totaldebtbalanceattheendof2010was$16.8billionascompared CapitalExpenditures 15
to$14.5billionattheendof2009.Thehigheraveragedebtbalance (inbillionsofdollars)
12
of$15.7billionin2010versus$13.5billionin2009wasdueto
CapitalExpenditures
increasedborrowings.TheCompanyincreasedborrowings,capital- OperatingCashFlow 9
izingonfavorabletermsinthecapitalmarkets.Theproceedsofthe
borrowingswereusedforgeneralcorporatepurposes. 6
Interestincomein2009decreasedby$271millionascom-
3
paredto2008duetolowerratesofinterestearneddespitehigher
averagecashbalances.Thecashbalance,includingmarketable 0
’09 ’10 ’11
securities,was$19.4billionattheendof2009,andaveraged
$15.6billionascomparedtothe$12.2billionaveragecashbalance
in2008.Theincreaseintheaveragecashbalancewasprimarily CONCENTRATIONOFCREDITRISK
duetocashgeneratedfromoperatingactivities. Globalconcentrationofcreditriskwithrespecttotradeaccounts
Interestexpensein2009increasedby$16millionascompared receivablescontinuestobelimitedduetothelargenumberofcus-
to2008duetoahigherdebtbalance.Thenetdebtbalanceatthe tomersgloballyandadherencetointernalcreditpoliciesandcredit
endof2009was$14.5billionascomparedto$11.9billionattheend limits.RecenteconomicchallengesinItaly,Spain,GreeceandPortu-
of2008.Thehigheraveragedebtbalanceof$13.5billionin2009 gal(theSouthernEuropeanRegion)haveimpactedcertainpayment
versus$12.9billionin2008wasprimarilyrelatedtofundingacquisi- patterns,whichhavehistoricallybeenlongerthanthoseexperi-
tionsandinvestmentsandthepurchaseoftheCompany’sCommon encedintheU.S.andotherinternationalmarkets.Thetotalnet
StockundertheCommonStockrepurchaseprogramannounced tradeaccountsreceivablebalanceintheSouthernEuropeanRegion
onJuly9,2007. wasapproximately$2.4billionasofJanuary1,2012andapproxi-
mately$2.3billionasofJanuary2,2011.Approximately$1.4billion
ProvisionforTaxesonIncome:Theworldwideeffectiveincometax
asofJanuary1,2012andapproximately$1.3billionasofJanuary2,
ratewas21.8%in2011,21.3%in2010and22.1%in2009.The2011
2011oftheSouthernEuropeanRegionnettradeaccountsreceivable
taxrateincreasedascomparedto2010duetocertainU.S.expenses
balancerelatedtotheCompany’sConsumer,VisionCareand
whicharenotfullytaxdeductibleandhigherU.S.statetaxespar-
DiabetesCarebusinessesaswellascertainPharmaceuticaland
tiallyoffsetbyincreasesintaxableincomeinlowertaxjurisdictions
MedicalDevicesandDiagnosticscustomerswhichareinlinewith
relativetohighertaxjurisdictions.The2010taxratedecreasedas
historicalcollectionpatterns.
comparedto2009duetodecreasesintaxableincomeinhighertax
Theremainingbalanceofnettradeaccountsreceivableinthe
jurisdictionsrelativetotaxableincomeinlowertaxjurisdictionsand
SouthernEuropeanRegionhasbeennegativelyimpactedbythe
certainU.S.taxadjustments.
timingofpaymentsfromcertaingovernmentownedorsupported
healthcarecustomersaswellascertaindistributorsofthePharma-
LiquidityandCapitalResources ceuticalandMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticslocalaffiliates.The
totalnettradeaccountsreceivablebalanceforthesecustomers
LIQUIDITY&CASHFLOWS
Cashandcashequivalentswere$24.5billionattheendof2011as wereapproximately$1.0billionatJanuary1,2012andJanuary2,
comparedwith$19.4billionattheendof2010.Theprimarysources 2011.TheCompanycontinuestoreceivepaymentsfromthesecus-
ofcashthatcontributedtothe$5.1billionincreaseversustheprior tomersandinsomecaseslatepaymentpremiums.Forcustomers
yearwere$14.3billionofcashgeneratedfromoperatingactivities, wherepaymentisexpectedoverperiodsoftimelongerthanone
$3.0billionnetproceedsfromlongandshort-termdebt,$1.3billion year,revenueandtradereceivableshavebeendiscountedoverthe
proceedsfromthedisposalofassetsandproceedsfromnetinvest- estimatedperiodoftimeforcollection.Allowancesfordoubtful
mentsalesof$0.5billion.Themajorusesofcashweredividends accountshavebeenincreasedforthesecustomers,buthavebeen
toshareholdersof$6.2billion,capitalspendingof$2.9billion, immaterialtodate.TheCompanywillcontinuetoworkclosely
acquisitionsof$2.8billion,therepurchaseofCommonStock,net withthesecustomers,monitortheeconomicsituationandtake
ofproceedsfromtheexerciseofoptionsof$1.3billionandotherof appropriateactionsasnecessary.
$0.8billionprimarilyrelatedtointangibleassets.
Cashflowsfromoperationswere$14.3billionin2011.Themajor FINANCINGANDMARKETRISK
sourcesofcashflowwerenetincomeof$9.7billion,adjustedfor TheCompanyusesfinancialinstrumentstomanagetheimpactof
non-cashchargesfordepreciationandamortization,stockbased foreignexchangeratechangesoncashflows.Accordingly,the
compensationanddeferredtaxprovisionof$2.9billion.Theremain- Companyentersintoforwardforeignexchangecontractstoprotect
ingchangetooperatingcashflowof$1.7billionwasprimarilydueto thevalueofcertainforeigncurrencyassetsandliabilitiesandto
anincreaseinothercurrentandnon-currentliabilitiesrelatedto hedgefutureforeigncurrencytransactionsprimarilyrelatedtoprod-
accrualsrecordedforlitigationmatters,productliabilityand uctcosts.Gainsorlossesonthesecontractsareoffsetbythegains
employeebenefitplans. orlossesontheunderlyingtransactions.A10%appreciationofthe
In2011,theCompanycontinuedtohaveaccesstoliquidity U.S.DollarfromtheJanuary1,2012marketrateswouldincreasethe
throughthecommercialpapermarket.Foradditionaldetailson unrealizedvalueoftheCompany’sforwardcontractsby$235mil-
borrowings,seeNote7totheConsolidatedFinancialStatements. lion.Conversely,a10%depreciationoftheU.S.Dollarfromthe
TheCompanyanticipatesthatoperatingcashflows,existing January1,2012marketrateswoulddecreasetheunrealizedvalueof
creditfacilitiesandaccesstothecommercialpapermarketswill theCompany’sforwardcontractsby$287million.Ineitherscenario,
providesufficientresourcestofundoperatingneedsin2012. thegainorlossontheforwardcontractwouldbeoffsetbythegain
orlossontheunderlyingtransaction,andtherefore,wouldhaveno
impactonfutureanticipatedearningsandcashflows.
TheCompanyhedgestheexposuretofluctuationsincurrency
exchangerates,andtheeffectoncertainassetsandliabilitiesin
32 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTforeigncurrency,byenteringintocurrencyswapcontracts.A1% combinationofavailablecashanddebt.Inaddition,theCompany
changeinthespreadbetweenU.S.andforeigninterestratesonthe hasanannualprogramtorepurchasesharesforuseinemployee
Company’sinterestratesensitivefinancialinstrumentswouldeither stockandincentiveplans.
increaseordecreasetheunrealizedvalueoftheCompany’sswap TheCompanyincreaseditsdividendin2011forthe49thcon-
contractsbyapproximately$232million.Ineitherscenario,at secutiveyear.Cashdividendspaidwere$2.25persharein2011
maturity,thegainorlossontheswapcontractwouldbeoffsetby comparedwithdividendsof$2.11persharein2010,and$1.93per
thegainorlossontheunderlyingtransaction,andtherefore,would sharein2009.Thedividendsweredistributedasfollows:
havenoimpactonfutureanticipatedcashflows.
2011 2010 2009
TheCompanydoesnotenterintofinancialinstrumentsfor
Firstquarter $0.54 0.49 0.46
tradingorspeculativepurposes.Further,theCompanyhasapolicy
Secondquarter 0.57 0.54 0.49
ofonlyenteringintocontractswithpartiesthathaveatleastanA
(orequivalent)creditrating.Thecounter-partiestothesecontracts Thirdquarter 0.57 0.54 0.49
aremajorfinancialinstitutionsandthereisnosignificantconcentra- Fourthquarter 0.57 0.54 0.49
tionofexposurewithanyonecounter-party.Managementbelieves Total $2.25 2.11 1.93
theriskoflossisremote.
TheCompanyhasaccesstosubstantialsourcesoffundsat OnJanuary3,2012,theBoardofDirectorsdeclaredaregularquar-
numerousbanksworldwide.InSeptember2011,theCompany terlycashdividendof$0.57pershare,payableonMarch13,2012,
securedanew364-dayCreditFacility.Totalcreditavailabletothe toshareholdersofrecordasofFebruary28,2012.TheCompany
Companyapproximates$10billion,whichexpiresSeptember20, expectstocontinuethepracticeofpayingregularcashdividends.
2012.Interestchargedonborrowingsunderthecreditlineagree-
mentisbasedoneitherbidsprovidedbybanks,theprimerateor
OtherInformation
LondonInterbankOfferedRates(LIBOR),plusapplicablemargins.
Commitmentfeesundertheagreementarenotmaterial. CRITICALACCOUNTINGPOLICIESANDESTIMATES
Totalborrowingsattheendof2011and2010were$19.6billion Management’sdiscussionandanalysisofresultsofoperations
and$16.8billion,respectively.Theincreaseinborrowingsbetween andfinancialconditionarebasedontheCompany’sconsolidated
2011and2010wasaresultoffinancingforgeneralcorporatepur- financialstatementsthathavebeenpreparedinaccordancewith
poses.In2011,netcash(cashandcurrentmarketablesecurities,net accountingprinciplesgenerallyacceptedintheU.S.(GAAP).The
ofdebt)was$12.6billioncomparedtonetcashof$10.9billionin preparationofthesefinancialstatementsrequiresthatmanagement
2010.Totaldebtrepresented25.6%oftotalcapital(shareholders’ makeestimatesandassumptionsthataffecttheamountsreported
equityandtotaldebt)in2011and22.9%oftotalcapitalin2010. forrevenues,expenses,assets,liabilitiesandotherrelateddisclo-
Shareholders’equitypershareattheendof2011was$20.95 sures.Actualresultsmayormaynotdifferfromtheseestimates.The
comparedwith$20.66atyear-end2010,anincreaseof1.4%. Companybelievesthattheunderstandingofcertainkeyaccounting
AsummaryofborrowingscanbefoundinNote7tothe policiesandestimatesareessentialinachievingmoreinsightinto
ConsolidatedFinancialStatements. theCompany’soperatingresultsandfinancialcondition.Thesekey
accountingpoliciesincluderevenuerecognition,incometaxes,legal
andself-insurancecontingencies,valuationoflong-livedassets,
CONTRACTUALOBLIGATIONSANDCOMMITMENTS
TheCompany’scontractualobligationsareprimarilyforleases,debt assumptionsusedtodeterminetheamountsrecordedforpensions
andunfundedretirementplans,withnoothersignificantobliga- andotheremployeebenefitplansandaccountingforstockoptions.
tions.Tosatisfytheseobligations,theCompanywillusecashfrom
RevenueRecognition:TheCompanyrecognizesrevenuefrom
operations.ThefollowingtablesummarizestheCompany’scontrac-
productsaleswhengoodsareshippedordelivered,andtitleand
tualobligationsandtheiraggregatematuritiesasofJanuary1,2012
riskoflosspasstothecustomer.Provisionsforcertainrebates,sales
(seeNotes7,10and16totheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsfor
incentives,tradepromotions,coupons,productreturnsanddis-
furtherdetails):
countstocustomersareaccountedforasreductionsinsalesinthe
sameperiodtherelatedsalesarerecorded.
Long-term Intereston Unfunded
Debt Debt Retirement Operating Productdiscountsgrantedarebasedonthetermsofarrange-
(DollarsinMillions) Obligations Obligations Plans Leases Total mentswithdirect,indirectandothermarketparticipants,aswell
2012 $ 616 560 61 188 1,425 asmarketconditions,includingpriceschargedbycompetitors.
2013 1,545 527 62 162 2,296 Rebates,thelargestbeingtheMedicaidrebateprovision,areesti-
2014 1,816 508 64 131 2,519 matedbasedoncontractualterms,historicalexperience,trend
2015 — 501 69 104 674 analysisandprojectedmarketconditionsinthevariousmarkets
2016 898 496 77 82 1,553 served.TheCompanyevaluatesmarketconditionsforproductsor
After2016 8,710 4,765 455 65 13,995 groupsofproductsprimarilythroughtheanalysisofwholesalerand
otherthird-partysell-throughandmarketresearchdata,aswellas
Total $13,585 7,357 788 732 22,462
internallygeneratedinformation.
Salesreturnsaregenerallyestimatedandrecordedbasedon
Fortaxmatters,seeNote8totheConsolidatedFinancialStatements.
historicalsalesandreturnsinformation.Productsthatexhibit
unusualsalesorreturnpatternsduetodating,competitionorother
SHAREREPURCHASEANDDIVIDENDS
marketingmattersarespecificallyinvestigatedandanalyzedaspart
OnJuly9,2007,theCompanyannouncedthatitsBoardofDirectors
oftheaccountingforsalesreturnaccruals.
approvedastockrepurchaseprogramauthorizingtheCompanyto
Salesreturnsallowancesrepresentareserveforproductsthat
buybackupto$10.0billionoftheCompany’sCommonStock.As
maybereturnedduetoexpiration,destructioninthefield,orin
ofJanuary2,2011,theCompanyrepurchasedanaggregateof
specificareas,productrecall.Thereturnsreserveisbasedonhis-
158.3millionsharesofJohnson&JohnsonCommonStockatacost
toricalreturntrendsbyproductandbymarketasapercenttogross
of$10.0billionandthestockrepurchaseprogramwascompleted.
sales.InaccordancewiththeCompany’saccountingpolicies,the
TheCompanyfundedthesharerepurchaseprogramthrougha
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 33Companygenerallyissuescredittocustomersforreturnedgoods. CONSUMERSEGMENT
TheCompany’ssalesreturnsreservesareaccountedforinaccor-
Balanceat Balanceat
dancewiththeU.S.GAAPguidanceforrevenuerecognitionwhen
Beginning Payments/ End
rightofreturnexists.Salesreturnsreservesarerecordedatfullsales (DollarsinMillions) ofPeriod Accruals Credits ofPeriod
value.SalesreturnsintheConsumerandPharmaceuticalsegments 2011
arealmostexclusivelynotresalable.Salesreturnsforcertainfran- Accruedrebates(1) $131 346 (350) 127
chisesintheMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegmentaretypically Accruedreturns 145 103 (134) 114
resalablebutarenotmaterial.TheCompanyrarelyexchangesprod-
Accruedpromotions 294 1,520 (1,574) 240
uctsfrominventoryforreturnedproducts.Thesalesreturnsreserve
Subtotal $570 1,969 (2,058) 481
forthetotalCompanyhasrangedbetween1.0%and1.2%ofannual
Reservefordoubtfulaccounts 57 3 (17) 43
nettradesalesduringthepriorthreefiscalreportingyears2011,
Reserveforcashdiscounts 21 226 (225) 22
2010and2009.
Promotionalprograms,suchasproductlistingallowancesand Total $648 2,198 (2,300) 546
cooperativeadvertisingarrangements,arerecordedintheyear
2010
incurred.Continuingpromotionalprogramsincludecouponsand
Accruedrebates(1) $121 361 (351) 131
volume-basedsalesincentiveprograms.Theredemptioncostof
Accruedreturns 127 156 (138) 145
consumercouponsisbasedonhistoricalredemptionexperienceby
Accruedpromotions 272 2,418 (2,396) 294
productandvalue.Volume-basedincentiveprogramsarebasedon
estimatedsalesvolumesfortheincentiveperiodandarerecorded Subtotal $520 2,935 (2,885) 570
asproductsaresold.TheCompanyalsoearnsservicerevenuefor Reservefordoubtfulaccounts 107 6 (56) 57
co-promotionofcertainproducts.Forallyearspresented,service Reserveforcashdiscounts 21 249 (249) 21
revenueswerelessthan2%oftotalrevenuesandareincludedin Total $648 3,190 (3,190) 648
salestocustomers.Thesearrangementsareevaluatedtodetermine
(1)Includesreserveforcustomerrebatesof$34millionatJanuary1,2012and$50millionat
theappropriateamountstobedeferred.
January2,2011,recordedasacontraasset.
Inaddition,theCompanyentersintocollaborationarrange-
mentsthatcontainmultiplerevenuegeneratingactivities.The PHARMACEUTICALSEGMENT
revenueforthesearrangementsisrecognizedaseachactivityis
performedordelivered,basedontherelativefairvalue.Upfront Balanceat Balanceat
Beginning Payments/ End
feesreceivedaspartofthesearrangementsaredeferredandrecog- (DollarsinMillions) ofPeriod Accruals Credits ofPeriod
nizedasrevenueearnedovertheobligationperiod.SeeNote1to 2011
theConsolidatedFinancialStatementsforadditionaldisclosures
Accruedrebates(1)(2) $1,520 4,732 (4,661) 1,591
oncollaborations.
Accruedreturns 294 105 (15) 384
Reasonablylikelychangestoassumptionsusedtocalculatethe
Accruedpromotions 83 187 (187) 83
accrualsforrebates,returnsandpromotionsarenotanticipatedto
Subtotal $1,897 5,024 (4,863) 2,058
haveamaterialeffectonthefinancialstatements.TheCompany
currentlydisclosestheimpactofchangestoassumptionsinthe Reservefordoubtfulaccounts 145 20 (8) 157
quarterlyorannualfilinginwhichthereisamaterialfinancial Reserveforcashdiscounts 54 392 (401) 45
statementimpact. Total $2,096 5,436 (5,272) 2,260
Belowaretablesthatshowtheprogressionofaccruedrebates,
2010
returns,promotions,reservefordoubtfulaccountsandreservefor
Accruedrebates(1)(2) $1,064 4,768 (4,312) 1,520
cashdiscountsbysegmentofbusinessforthefiscalyearsended
Accruedreturns 342 27 (75) 294
January1,2012andJanuary2,2011.
Accruedpromotions 84 135 (136) 83
Subtotal $1,490 4,930 (4,523) 1,897
Reservefordoubtfulaccounts 83 91 (29) 145
Reserveforcashdiscounts 48 379 (373) 54
Total $1,621 5,400 (4,925) 2,096
(1)Includesreserveforcustomerrebatesof$298millionatJanuary1,2012and$320million
atJanuary2,2011,recordedasacontraasset.
(2)IncludesadditionalsalesrebatestoMedicaidmanagedcareorganizationsasaresultof
theU.S.healthcarereformlegislation.
34 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTMEDICALDEVICESANDDIAGNOSTICSSEGMENT futurecashflowsinevaluatingthevalueoftheCompany’sproperty,
plantandequipment,goodwillandintangibleassets.Asthese
Balanceat Balanceat
assumptionsandestimatesmaychangeovertime,itmayormaynot
Beginning Payments/ End
(DollarsinMillions) ofPeriod Accruals Credits ofPeriod benecessaryfortheCompanytorecordimpairmentcharges.
2011
EmployeeBenefitPlans:TheCompanysponsorsvariousretirement
Accruedrebates(1) $495 3,253 (3,251) 497
andpensionplans,includingdefinedbenefit,definedcontribution
Accruedreturns 201 352 (369) 184
andterminationindemnityplans,whichcovermostemployees
Accruedpromotions 50 67 (44) 73 worldwide.Theseplansarebasedonassumptionsforthediscount
Subtotal $746 3,672 (3,664) 754 rate,expectedreturnonplanassets,expectedsalaryincreasesand
Reservefordoubtfulaccounts 138 54 (31) 161 healthcarecosttrendrates.SeeNote10totheConsolidatedFinan-
Reserveforcashdiscounts 35 342 (345) 32 cialStatementsforfurtherdetailsontheseratesandtheeffecta
ratechangewouldhaveontheCompany’sresultsofoperations.
Total $919 4,068 (4,040) 947
2010 StockBasedCompensation:TheCompanyrecognizescompensa-
tionexpenseassociatedwiththeissuanceofequityinstrumentsto
Accruedrebates(1)(2) $454 3,271 (3,230) 495
employeesfortheirservices.Thefairvalueofeachawardisesti-
Accruedreturns 220 334 (353) 201
matedonthedateofgrantusingtheBlack-Scholesoptionvaluation
Accruedpromotions 73 111 (134) 50
modelandisexpensedinthefinancialstatementsoverthevesting
Subtotal $747 3,716 (3,717) 746
period.Theinputassumptionsusedindeterminingfairvalueare
Reservefordoubtfulaccounts 143 33 (38) 138 theexpectedlife,expectedvolatility,risk-freerateandthedividend
Reserveforcashdiscounts 32 484 (481) 35 yield.SeeNote17totheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsfor
Total $922 4,233 (4,236) 919 additionalinformation.
(1)Includesreserveforcustomerrebatesof$324millionatJanuary1,2012and$331million
atJanuary2,2011,recordedasacontraasset. NEWACCOUNTINGPRONOUNCEMENTS
(2)AccrualsandPayments/Creditsfor2010havebeenrevisedby$908milliontoappropriately RefertoNote1totheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsforrecently
reflectnon-cashcredits/adjustments,consistentwithcurrentyearpresentationrelatedto adoptedaccountingpronouncementsandrecentlyissuedaccount-
theEthiconfranchise,previouslyreportednetintheAccrualscolumn.
ingpronouncementsnotyetadoptedasofJanuary1,2012.
IncomeTaxes:Incometaxesarerecordedbasedonamounts
refundableorpayableforthecurrentyearandincludetheresultsof ECONOMICANDMARKETFACTORS
anydifferencebetweenU.S.GAAPaccountingandtaxreporting, TheCompanyisawarethatitsproductsareusedinanenvironment
recordedasdeferredtaxassetsorliabilities.TheCompanyestimates where,formorethanadecade,policymakers,consumersandbusi-
deferredtaxassetsandliabilitiesbasedoncurrenttaxregulations nesseshaveexpressedconcernsabouttherisingcostofhealthcare.
andrates.Changesintaxlawsandratesmayaffectrecorded Inresponsetotheseconcerns,theCompanyhasalong-standing
deferredtaxassetsandliabilitiesinthefuture.Managementbelieves policyofpricingproductsresponsibly.Fortheperiod2001–2011,in
thatchangesintheseestimateswouldnothaveamaterialeffecton theUnitedStates,theweightedaveragecompoundannualgrowth
theCompany’sresultsofoperations,cashflowsorfinancialposition. rateoftheCompany’snetpriceincreasesforhealthcareproducts
AtJanuary1,2012andJanuary2,2011,thecumulative (prescriptionandover-the-counterdrugs,hospitalandprofessional
amountsofundistributedinternationalearningswereapproximately products)wasbelowtheU.S.ConsumerPriceIndex(CPI).
$41.6billionand$37.0billion,respectively.AtJanuary1,2012and Inflationratescontinuetohaveaneffectonworldwide
January2,2011,theCompany’sforeignsubsidiariesheldbalances economiesand,consequently,onthewaycompaniesoperate.The
ofcashandcashequivalentsintheamountsof$24.5billionand CompanyaccountedforoperationsinVenezuelaashighlyinflation-
$18.7billion,respectively.TheCompanyintendstocontinueto aryin2010and2011,asthepriorthree-yearcumulativeinflation
reinvestitsundistributedinternationalearningstoexpandits ratesurpassed100%.Inthefaceofincreasingcosts,theCompany
internationaloperations;therefore,noU.S.taxexpensehasbeen strivestomaintainitsprofitmarginsthroughcostreductionpro-
recordedwithrespecttotheundistributedportionnotintended grams,productivityimprovementsandperiodicpriceincreases.
forrepatriation. TheCompanyisexposedtofluctuationsincurrencyexchange
SeeNote8totheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsfor rates.A1%changeinthevalueoftheU.S.Dollarascomparedto
furtherinformationregardingincometaxes. allforeigncurrenciesinwhichtheCompanyhadsales,incomeor
expensein2011wouldhaveincreasedordecreasedthetranslation
LegalandSelfInsuranceContingencies:TheCompanyrecords
offoreignsalesbyapproximately$350millionandincomeby
accrualsforvariouscontingenciesincludinglegalproceedingsand
$75million.
productliabilityclaimsastheseariseinthenormalcourseofbusi-
TheCompanyfacesvariousworldwidehealthcarechanges
ness.Theaccrualsarebasedonmanagement’sjudgmentastothe
thatmaycontinuetoresultinpricingpressuresthatincludehealth
probabilityoflossesand,whereapplicable,actuariallydetermined
carecostcontainmentandgovernmentlegislationrelatingtosales,
estimates.Additionally,theCompanyrecordsinsurancereceivable
promotionsandreimbursementofhealthcareproducts.
amountsfromthird-partyinsurerswhenrecoveryisprobable.As
Changesinthebehaviorandspendingpatternsofpurchasers
appropriate,reservesagainstthesereceivablesarerecordedforesti-
ofhealthcareproductsandservices,includingdelayingmedical
matedamountsthatmaynotbecollectedfromthird-partyinsurers.
procedures,rationingprescriptionmedications,reducingthe
TheCompanyfollowstheprovisionsofU.S.GAAPwhenrecord-
frequencyofphysicianvisitsandforegoinghealthcareinsurance
inglitigationrelatedcontingencies.Aliabilityisrecordedwhenaloss
coverage,asaresultofthecurrentglobaleconomicdownturn,
isprobableandcanbereasonablyestimated.Thebestestimateofa
maycontinuetoimpacttheCompany’sbusinesses.
losswithinarangeisaccrued;however,ifnoestimateintherangeis
TheCompanyalsooperatesinanenvironmentwhichhas
betterthananyother,theminimumamountisaccrued.
becomeincreasinglyhostiletointellectualpropertyrights.Generic
Long-LivedandIntangibleAssets:TheCompanyassesseschanges drugfirmshavefiledAbbreviatedNewDrugApplications(ANDAs)
ineconomicconditionsandmakesassumptionsregardingestimated
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 35seekingtomarketgenericformsofmostoftheCompany’skeyphar- CautionaryFactorsThatMayAffect
maceuticalproducts,priortoexpirationoftheapplicablepatents
FutureResults
coveringthoseproducts.IntheeventtheCompanyisnotsuccessful
indefendingthepatentclaimschallengedinANDAfilings,the ThisAnnualReportcontainsforward-lookingstatements.Forward-
genericfirmswillthenintroducegenericversionsoftheproductat lookingstatementsdonotrelatestrictlytohistoricalorcurrentfacts
issue,resultinginthepotentialforsubstantialmarketshareand andanticipateresultsbasedonmanagement’splansthataresubject
revenuelossesforthatproduct.Forfurtherinformationseethe touncertainty.Forward-lookingstatementsmaybeidentifiedby
discussionon“LitigationAgainstFilersofAbbreviatedNewDrug theuseofwordssuchas“plans,”“expects,”“will,”“anticipates,”
Applications”inNote21totheConsolidatedFinancialStatements. “estimates”andotherwordsofsimilarmeaninginconjunctionwith,
amongotherthings,discussionsoffutureoperations,financialper-
formance,theCompany’sstrategyforgrowth,productdevelopment,
LEGALPROCEEDINGS
Johnson&Johnsonandcertainofitssubsidiariesareinvolvedin regulatoryapproval,marketpositionandexpenditures.
variouslawsuitsandclaimsregardingproductliability,intellectual Forward-lookingstatementsarebasedoncurrentexpectations
property,commercialandothermatters;governmentalinvestiga- offutureevents.TheCompanycannotguaranteethatanyforward-
tions;andotherlegalproceedingsthatarisefromtimetotimein lookingstatementwillbeaccurate,althoughtheCompanybelieves
theordinarycourseofbusiness. thatithasbeenreasonableinitsexpectationsandassumptions.
TheCompanyrecordsaccrualsforsuchcontingencieswhenit Investorsshouldrealizethatifunderlyingassumptionsproveinac-
isprobablethataliabilitywillbeincurredandtheamountoftheloss curateorthatunknownrisksoruncertaintiesmaterialize,actual
canbereasonablyestimated.TheCompanyhasaccruedforcertain resultscouldvarymateriallyfromtheCompany’sexpectationsand
litigationmattersandcontinuestomonitoreachrelatedlegalissue projections.Investorsarethereforecautionednottoplaceundue
andadjustaccrualsfornewinformationandfurtherdevelopments relianceonanyforward-lookingstatements.TheCompanydoesnot
inaccordancewithASC450-20-25.Fortheseandotherlitigation undertaketoupdateanyforward-lookingstatementsasaresultof
andregulatorymatterscurrentlydisclosedforwhichalossisproba- newinformationorfutureeventsordevelopments.
bleorreasonablypossible,theCompanyisunabletodeterminean Risksanduncertaintiesinclude,butarenotlimitedto,general
estimateofthepossiblelossorrangeoflossbeyondtheamounts industryconditionsandcompetition;economicfactors,suchas
alreadyaccrued.Thesematterscanbeaffectedbyvariousfactors, interestrateandcurrencyexchangeratefluctuations;technological
includingwhetherdamagessoughtintheproceedingsareunsub- advances,newproductsandpatentsattainedbycompetitors;chal-
stantiatedorindeterminate;scientificandlegaldiscoveryhasnot lengesinherentinnewproductdevelopment,includingobtaining
commencedorisnotcomplete;proceedingsareinearlystages; regulatoryapprovals;challengestopatents;significantlitigation
matterspresentlegaluncertainties;therearesignificantfactsin adversetotheCompany;impactofbusinesscombinations;financial
dispute;ortherearenumerouspartiesinvolved. distressandbankruptciesexperiencedbysignificantcustomers
IntheCompany’sopinion,basedonitsexaminationofthese andsuppliers;changestogovernmentallawsandregulationsand
matters,itsexperiencetodateanddiscussionswithcounsel,the U.S.andforeignhealthcarereforms;trendstowardhealthcarecost
ultimateoutcomeoflegalproceedings,netofliabilitiesaccruedin containment;increasedscrutinyofthehealthcareindustrybygov-
theCompany’sbalancesheet,isnotexpectedtohaveamaterial ernmentagencies;changesinbehaviorandspendingpatternsof
adverseeffectontheCompany’sfinancialposition.However,the purchasersofhealthcareproductsandservices;financialinstability
resolutioninanyreportingperiodofoneormoreofthesematters, ofinternationaleconomiesandsovereignrisk;disruptionsdue
eitheraloneorintheaggregate,mayhaveamaterialadverse tonaturaldisasters;manufacturingdifficultiesordelays;product
effectontheCompany’sresultsofoperations,andcashflowsfor efficacyorsafetyconcernsresultinginproductrecallsor
thatperiod. regulatoryaction.
SeeNote21totheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsfor TheCompany’sreportonForm10-KfortheyearendedJanuary
furtherinformationregardinglegalproceedings. 1,2012includes,inExhibit99,adiscussionofadditionalfactorsthat
couldcauseactualresultstodifferfromexpectations.TheCompany
notesthesefactorsaspermittedbythePrivateSecuritiesLitigation
COMMONSTOCKMARKETPRICES
TheCompany’sCommonStockislistedontheNewYorkStock ReformActof1995.
ExchangeunderthesymbolJNJ.Thecompositemarketpriceranges
forJohnson&JohnsonCommonStockduring2011and2010were:
2011 2010
High Low High Low
Firstquarter $63.54 57.50 65.95 61.89
Secondquarter 67.37 59.25 66.20 57.55
Thirdquarter 68.05 59.08 62.70 56.86
Fourthquarter 66.32 60.83 64.92 61.25
Year-endclose $65.58 61.85
36 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTConsolidatedBalanceSheets Johnson&JohnsonandSubsidiaries
AtJanuary1,2012andJanuary2,2011(DollarsinMillionsExceptShareandPerShareData)(Note1) 2011 2010
Assets
Currentassets
Cashandcashequivalents(Notes1and2) $ 24,542 19,355
Marketablesecurities(Notes1and2) 7,719 8,303
Accountsreceivabletrade,lessallowancesfordoubtfulaccounts$361(2010,$340) 10,581 9,774
Inventories(Notes1and3) 6,285 5,378
Deferredtaxesonincome(Note8) 2,556 2,224
Prepaidexpensesandotherreceivables 2,633 2,273
Totalcurrentassets 54,316 47,307
Property,plantandequipment,net(Notes1and4) 14,739 14,553
Intangibleassets,net(Notes1and5) 18,138 16,716
Goodwill(Notes1and5) 16,138 15,294
Deferredtaxesonincome(Note8) 6,540 5,096
Otherassets 3,773 3,942
Totalassets $113,644 102,908
LiabilitiesandShareholders’Equity
Currentliabilities
Loansandnotespayable(Note7) $ 6,658 7,617
Accountspayable 5,725 5,623
Accruedliabilities 4,608 4,100
Accruedrebates,returnsandpromotions 2,637 2,512
Accruedcompensationandemployeerelatedobligations 2,329 2,642
Accruedtaxesonincome 854 578
Totalcurrentliabilities 22,811 23,072
Long-termdebt(Note7) 12,969 9,156
Deferredtaxesonincome(Note8) 1,800 1,447
Employeerelatedobligations(Notes9and10) 8,353 6,087
Otherliabilities 10,631 6,567
Totalliabilities 56,564 46,329
Shareholders’equity
Preferredstock—withoutparvalue
(authorizedandunissued2,000,000shares) — —
Commonstock—parvalue$1.00pershare(Note12)
(authorized4,320,000,000shares;issued3,119,843,000shares) 3,120 3,120
Accumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(Note13) (5,632) (3,531)
Retainedearnings 81,251 77,773
78,739 77,362
Less:commonstockheldintreasury,atcost(Note12)
(395,480,000sharesand381,746,000shares) 21,659 20,783
Totalshareholders’equity 57,080 56,579
Totalliabilitiesandshareholders’equity $113,644 102,908
SeeNotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37ConsolidatedStatementsofEarnings Johnson&JohnsonandSubsidiaries
(DollarsinMillionsExceptPerShareFigures)(Note1) 2011 2010 2009
Salestocustomers $65,030 61,587 61,897
Costofproductssold 20,360 18,792 18,447
Grossprofit 44,670 42,795 43,450
Selling,marketingandadministrativeexpenses 20,969 19,424 19,801
Researchanddevelopmentexpense 7,548 6,844 6,986
Interestincome (91) (107) (90)
Interestexpense,netofportioncapitalized(Note4) 571 455 451
Other(income)expense,net 2,743 (768) (526)
Restructuring(Note22) 569 — 1,073
Earningsbeforeprovisionfortaxesonincome 12,361 16,947 15,755
Provisionfortaxesonincome(Note8) 2,689 3,613 3,489
Netearnings $ 9,672 13,334 12,266
Basicnetearningspershare(Notes1and15) $ 3.54 4.85 4.45
Dilutednetearningspershare(Notes1and15) $ 3.49 4.78 4.40
Cashdividendspershare $ 2.25 2.11 1.93
Basicaveragesharesoutstanding(Notes1and15) 2,736.0 2,751.4 2,759.5
Dilutedaveragesharesoutstanding(Notes1and15) 2,775.3 2,788.8 2,789.1
SeeNotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements
38 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTConsolidatedStatementsofEquity Johnson&JohnsonandSubsidiaries
Accumulated
Other Treasury
Comprehensive Retained Comprehensive CommonStock Stock
(DollarsinMillions)(Note1) Total Income Earnings Income IssuedAmount Amount
Balance,December28,2008 $42,511 63,379 (4,955) 3,120 (19,033)
Netearnings 12,266 12,266 12,266
Cashdividendspaid (5,327) (5,327)
Employeecompensationandstockoptionplans 1,404 21 1,383
Repurchaseofcommonstock (2,130) (2,130)
Other (33) (33)
Othercomprehensiveincome,netoftax:
Currencytranslationadjustment 1,363 1,363 1,363
Unrealizedlossesonsecurities (55) (55) (55)
Employeebenefitplans 565 565 565
Gainsonderivatives&hedges 24 24 24
Totalcomprehensiveincome 14,163
Balance,January3,2010 $50,588 70,306 (3,058) 3,120 (19,780)
Netearnings 13,334 13,334 13,334
Cashdividendspaid (5,804) (5,804)
Employeecompensationandstockoptionplans 1,731 (63) 1,794
Repurchaseofcommonstock (2,797) (2,797)
Othercomprehensiveincome,netoftax:
Currencytranslationadjustment (461) (461) (461)
Unrealizedgainsonsecurities 54 54 54
Employeebenefitplans (21) (21) (21)
Lossesonderivatives&hedges (45) (45) (45)
Totalcomprehensiveincome 12,861
Balance,January2,2011 $56,579 77,773 (3,531) 3,120 (20,783)
Netearnings 9,672 9,672 9,672
Cashdividendspaid (6,156) (6,156)
Employeecompensationandstockoptionplans 1,760 111 1,649
Repurchaseofcommonstock (2,525) (2,525)
Other (149) (149)
Othercomprehensiveincome,netoftax:
Currencytranslationadjustment (557) (557) (557)
Unrealizedgainsonsecurities 424 424 424
Employeebenefitplans (1,700) (1,700) (1,700)
Lossesonderivatives&hedges (268) (268) (268)
Totalcomprehensiveincome 7,571
Balance,January1,2012 $57,080 81,251 (5,632) 3,120 (21,659)
SeeNotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 39ConsolidatedStatementsofCashFlows Johnson&JohnsonandSubsidiaries
(DollarsinMillions)(Note1) 2011 2010 2009
Cashflowsfromoperatingactivities
Netearnings $ 9,672 13,334 12,266
Adjustmentstoreconcilenetearningstocashflowsfrom
operatingactivities:
Depreciationandamortizationofpropertyandintangibles 3,158 2,939 2,774
Stockbasedcompensation 621 614 628
Deferredtaxprovision (836) 356 (436)
Accountsreceivableallowances 32 12 58
Changesinassetsandliabilities,netofeffectsfromacquisitions:
(Increase)/decreaseinaccountsreceivable (915) (207) 453
(Increase)/decreaseininventories (715) (196) 95
Increase/(decrease)inaccountspayableandaccruedliabilities 493 20 (507)
(Increase)/decreaseinothercurrentandnon-currentassets (1,625) (574) 1,209
Increaseinothercurrentandnon-currentliabilities 4,413 87 31
Netcashflowsfromoperatingactivities 14,298 16,385 16,571
Cashflowsfrominvestingactivities
Additionstoproperty,plantandequipment (2,893) (2,384) (2,365)
Proceedsfromthedisposalofassets 1,342 524 154
Acquisitions,netofcashacquired(Note20) (2,797) (1,269) (2,470)
Purchasesofinvestments (29,882) (15,788) (10,040)
Salesofinvestments 30,396 11,101 7,232
Other(primarilyintangibles) (778) (38) (109)
Netcashusedbyinvestingactivities (4,612) (7,854) (7,598)
Cashflowsfromfinancingactivities
Dividendstoshareholders (6,156) (5,804) (5,327)
Repurchaseofcommonstock (2,525) (2,797) (2,130)
Proceedsfromshort-termdebt 9,729 7,874 9,484
Retirementofshort-termdebt (11,200) (6,565) (6,791)
Proceedsfromlong-termdebt 4,470 1,118 9
Retirementoflong-termdebt (16) (32) (219)
Proceedsfromtheexerciseofstockoptions/excesstaxbenefits 1,246 1,226 882
Netcashusedbyfinancingactivities (4,452) (4,980) (4,092)
Effectofexchangeratechangesoncashandcashequivalents (47) (6) 161
Increaseincashandcashequivalents 5,187 3,545 5,042
Cashandcashequivalents,beginningofyear(Note1) 19,355 15,810 10,768
Cashandcashequivalents,endofyear(Note1) $24,542 19,355 15,810
Supplementalcashflowdata
Cashpaidduringtheyearfor:
Interest $ 576 491 533
Incometaxes 2,970 2,442 2,363
Supplementalscheduleofnon-cashinvestingandfinancingactivities
Treasurystockissuedforemployeecompensationand
stockoptionplans,netofcashproceeds $ 433 673 541
Conversionofdebt 1 1 2
Acquisitions
Fairvalueofassetsacquired $ 3,025 1,321 3,345
Fairvalueofliabilitiesassumedandnon-controllinginterests (228) (52) (875)
Netcashpaidforacquisitions $ 2,797 1,269 2,470
SeeNotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements
40 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTNotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements
1.SummaryofSignificantAccountingPolicies expenseintheCompany’sfinancialstatementandwillbeamortized
PRINCIPLESOFCONSOLIDATION onastraight-linebasisfortheyearaspertheFASBguidance.The
Theconsolidatedfinancialstatementsincludetheaccountsof adoptionofthisstandarddidnothaveamaterialimpactonthe
Johnson&Johnsonanditssubsidiaries(theCompany). Company’sresultsofoperations,cashflowsorfinancialposition.
Intercompanyaccountsandtransactionsareeliminated.
RECENTLYISSUEDACCOUNTINGSTANDARDS
DESCRIPTIONOFTHECOMPANYANDBUSINESSSEGMENTS NOTADOPTEDASOFJANUARY1,2012
TheCompanyhasapproximately117,900employeesworldwide Duringthefiscalthirdquarterof2011,theFASBissuedamendments
engagedintheresearchanddevelopment,manufactureandsaleof togoodwillimpairmenttesting.Undertheamendmentsinthisupdate,
abroadrangeofproductsinthehealthcarefield.TheCompany anentityhastheoptiontofirstassessqualitativefactorstodetermine
conductsbusinessinvirtuallyallcountriesoftheworldanditspri- whethertheexistenceofeventsorcircumstancesleadstoadetermi-
maryfocusisonproductsrelatedtohumanhealthandwell-being. nationthatitismorelikelythannotthatthefairvalueofareporting
TheCompanyisorganizedintothreebusinesssegments: unitislessthanitscarryingamount.If,afterassessingthetotalityof
Consumer,PharmaceuticalandMedicalDevicesandDiagnostics. eventsorcircumstances,anentitydeterminesitisnotmorelikelythan
TheConsumersegmentincludesabroadrangeofproductsusedin notthatthefairvalueofareportingunitislessthanitscarrying
thebabycare,skincare,oralcare,woundcareandwomen’shealth amount,thenperformingthetwo-stepimpairmenttestisunneces-
fields,aswellasnutritionalandover-the-counterpharmaceutical sary.However,ifanentityconcludesotherwise,thenitisrequiredto
productsandwellnessandpreventionplatforms.Theseproducts performthefirststepofthetwo-stepimpairmenttest.Thisguidance
aremarketedtothegeneralpublicandsoldbothtoretailoutlets iseffectiveforannualandinterimgoodwillimpairmenttestsper-
anddistributorsthroughouttheworld.ThePharmaceuticalsegment formedforfiscalyearsbeginningafterDecember15,2011.Theadop-
includesproductsinthefollowingareas:anti-infective,antipsychotic, tionofthisstandardisnotexpectedtohaveamaterialimpactonthe
contraceptive,dermatology,gastrointestinal,hematology,immunol- Company’sresultsofoperations,cashflowsorfinancialposition.
ogy,neurology,oncology,painmanagement,thrombosis,vaccines Duringthefiscalsecondquarterof2011,theFASBissuedan
andinfectiousdiseases.Theseproductsaredistributeddirectlyto amendmenttothedisclosurerequirementsforpresentationofcom-
retailers,wholesalersandhealthcareprofessionalsforprescription prehensiveincome.Theamendmentrequiresthatallnon-owner
use.TheMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegmentincludesabroad changesinstockholders’equitybepresentedeitherinasinglecon-
rangeofproductsdistributedtowholesalers,hospitalsandretailers, tinuousstatementofcomprehensiveincomeorintwoseparatebut
usedprincipallyintheprofessionalfieldsbyphysicians,nurses,thera- consecutivestatements.Thisguidanceiseffectiveretrospectively
pists,hospitals,diagnosticlaboratoriesandclinics.Theseproducts fortheinterimperiodsandannualperiodsbeginningafterDecem-
includeCardiovascularCare’selectrophysiologyandcirculatory ber15,2011;however,theFASBagreedtoanindefinitedeferralof
diseasemanagementproducts;DePuy’sorthopaedicjointrecon- thereclassificationrequirement.Theadoptionofthisstandardisnot
struction,spinalcare,neurologicalandsportsmedicineproducts; expectedtohaveamaterialimpactontheCompany’sresultsof
Ethicon’ssurgicalcare,aestheticsandwomen’shealthproducts; operations,cashflowsorfinancialposition.
EthiconEndo-Surgery’sminimallyinvasivesurgicalproductsand Duringthefiscalsecondquarterof2011,theFASBissued
advancedsterilizationproducts;DiabetesCare’sbloodglucosemoni- amendmentstodisclosurerequirementsforcommonfairvalue
toringandinsulindeliveryproducts;Ortho-ClinicalDiagnostics’ measurement.Theseamendmentsresultinconvergenceoffair
professionaldiagnosticproductsandVisionCare’sdisposable valuemeasurementanddisclosurerequirementsbetweenU.S.Gen-
contactlenses. erallyAcceptedAccountingPrinciples(GAAP)andInternational
FinancialReportingStandards(IFRS).Thisguidanceiseffective
NEWACCOUNTINGPRONOUNCEMENTS prospectivelyfortheinterimperiodsandannualperiodsbeginning
RECENTLYADOPTEDACCOUNTINGPRONOUNCEMENTS afterDecember15,2011.Earlyadoptionisprohibited.Theadoption
Duringthefiscalfirstquarterof2011,theCompanyadoptedthe ofthisstandardisnotexpectedtohaveamaterialimpactonthe
FinancialAccountingStandardsBoard(FASB)guidanceandamend- Company’sresultsofoperations,cashflowsorfinancialposition.
mentsissuedrelatedtorevenuerecognitionunderthemilestone
method.Theobjectiveoftheaccountingstandardupdateistopro- CASHEQUIVALENTS
videguidanceondefiningamilestoneanddeterminingwhenitmay TheCompanyconsiderssecuritieswithmaturitiesofthreemonths
beappropriatetoapplythemilestonemethodofrevenuerecognition orless,whenpurchased,tobecashequivalents.
forresearchordevelopmenttransactions.Thisupdatebecameeffec-
tiveonaprospectivebasisformilestonesachievedinfiscalyears,and INVESTMENTS
interimperiodswithinthoseyears,beginningonorafterJune15, Short-termmarketablesecuritiesarecarriedatcost,whichapproxi-
2010.Theadoptionofthisstandarddidnothaveamaterialimpacton matesfairvalue.Investmentsclassifiedasavailable-for-saleare
theCompany’sresultsofoperations,cashflowsorfinancialposition. carriedatestimatedfairvaluewithunrealizedgainsandlosses
Duringthefiscalfirstquarterof2011,theCompanyadopted recordedasacomponentofaccumulatedothercomprehensive
theFASBguidanceonhowpharmaceuticalcompaniesshouldrecog- income.Long-termdebtsecuritiesthattheCompanyhastheability
nizeandclassifyintheCompany’sfinancialstatements,thenon- andintenttoholduntilmaturityarecarriedatamortizedcost.
deductibleannualfeepaidtotheGovernmentinaccordancewiththe Managementdeterminestheappropriateclassificationofitsinvest-
PatientProtectionandAffordableCareAct,asamendedbythe mentindebtandequitysecuritiesatthetimeofpurchaseand
HealthCareandEducationReconciliationAct.Thisfeeisbasedonan re-evaluatessuchdeterminationateachbalancesheetdate.The
allocationofacompany’smarketshareoftotalbrandedprescription Companyperiodicallyreviewsitsinvestmentsinequitysecurities
drugsalestoU.S.governmentprogramsfromtheprioryear.Theesti- forimpairmentandadjuststheseinvestmentstotheirfairvalue
matedfeewasrecordedasaselling,marketingandadministrative whenadeclineinmarketvalueisdeemedtobeotherthan
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 41temporary.Iflossesonthesesecuritiesareconsideredtobeother Promotionalprograms,suchasproductlistingallowancesand
thantemporary,thelossisrecognizedinearnings. cooperativeadvertisingarrangements,arerecordedintheyear
incurred.Continuingpromotionalprogramsincludecouponsand
PROPERTY,PLANTANDEQUIPMENTANDDEPRECIATION volume-basedsalesincentiveprograms.Theredemptioncostof
Property,plantandequipmentarestatedatcost.TheCompany consumercouponsisbasedonhistoricalredemptionexperience
utilizesthestraight-linemethodofdepreciationovertheestimated byproductandvalue.Volume-basedincentiveprogramsarebased
usefullivesoftheassets: ontheestimatedsalesvolumesfortheincentiveperiodandare
recordedasproductsaresold.TheCompanyalsoearnsservicerev-
Buildingandbuildingequipment 20–40years
enueforco-promotionofcertainproductsandincludesitinsalesto
Landandleaseholdimprovements 10–20years
customers.Thesearrangementsareevaluatedtodeterminethe
Machineryandequipment 2–13years
appropriateamountstobedeferred.
TheCompanycapitalizescertaincomputersoftwareanddevelopment
costs,includedinmachineryandequipment,whenincurredinconnec- SHIPPINGANDHANDLING
tionwithdevelopingorobtainingcomputersoftwareforinternaluse. Shippingandhandlingcostsincurredwere$1,022million,$945mil-
Capitalizedsoftwarecostsareamortizedovertheestimateduseful lionand$964millionin2011,2010and2009,respectively,andare
livesofthesoftware,whichgenerallyrangefrom3to8years. includedinselling,marketingandadministrativeexpense.The
TheCompanyreviewslong-livedassetstoassessrecoverability amountofrevenuereceivedforshippingandhandlingislessthan
usingundiscountedcashflows.Whencertaineventsorchangesin 0.5%ofsalestocustomersforallperiodspresented.
operatingoreconomicconditionsoccur,animpairmentassessment
maybeperformedontherecoverabilityofthecarryingvalueof INVENTORIES
theseassets.Iftheassetisdeterminedtobeimpaired,thelossis Inventoriesarestatedatthelowerofcostormarketdeterminedby
measuredbasedonthedifferencebetweentheasset’sfairvalueand thefirst-in,first-outmethod.
itscarryingvalue.Ifquotedmarketpricesarenotavailable,the
Companywillestimatefairvalueusingadiscountedvalueof INTANGIBLEASSETSANDGOODWILL
estimatedfuturecashflows. TheauthoritativeliteratureonU.S.GAAPrequiresthatgoodwilland
intangibleassetswithindefinitelivesbeassessedannuallyfor
REVENUERECOGNITION impairment.TheCompanycompletedtheannualimpairmenttest
TheCompanyrecognizesrevenuefromproductsaleswhenthe for2011inthefiscalfourthquarterandnoimpairmentwasdeter-
goodsareshippedordeliveredandtitleandriskoflosspasstothe mined.Futureimpairmenttestswillbeperformedannuallyin
customer.Provisionsforcertainrebates,salesincentives,tradepro- thefiscalfourthquarter,orsoonerifatriggeringeventoccurs.
motions,coupons,productreturnsanddiscountstocustomersare Purchasedin-processresearchanddevelopmentisaccountedforas
accountedforasreductionsinsalesinthesameperiodtherelated anindefinitelivedintangibleassetuntiltheunderlyingprojectis
salesarerecorded. completed,atwhichpointtheintangibleassetwillbeaccountedfor
Productdiscountsgrantedarebasedonthetermsofarrange- asadefinitelivedintangibleasset,orabandoned,atwhichpointthe
mentswithdirect,indirectandothermarketparticipants,aswell intangibleassetwillbewrittenoff.
asmarketconditions,includingpriceschargedbycompetitors. Intangibleassetsthathavefiniteusefullivescontinuetobe
Rebates,thelargestbeingtheMedicaidrebateprovision,areesti- amortizedovertheirusefullives,andarereviewedforimpairment
matedbasedoncontractualterms,historicalexperience,trend whenwarrantedbyeconomicconditions.SeeNote5forfurther
analysisandprojectedmarketconditionsinthevariousmarkets detailsonIntangibleAssetsandGoodwill.
served.TheCompanyevaluatesmarketconditionsforproductsor
groupsofproductsprimarilythroughtheanalysisofwholesalerand FINANCIALINSTRUMENTS
otherthird-partysell-throughandmarketresearchdata,aswellas AsrequiredbyU.S.GAAP,allderivativeinstrumentsarerecordedon
internallygeneratedinformation. thebalancesheetatfairvalue.Changesinthefairvalueofderivatives
Salesreturnsaregenerallyestimatedandrecordedbasedon arerecordedeachperiodincurrentearningsorothercomprehensive
historicalsalesandreturnsinformation.Productsthatexhibit income,dependingonwhetherthederivativeisdesignatedaspartof
unusualsalesorreturnpatternsduetodating,competitionor ahedgetransaction,andifso,thetypeofhedgetransaction.
othermarketingmattersarespecificallyinvestigatedandanalyzed TheCompanydocumentsallrelationshipsbetweenhedged
aspartoftheaccountingforsalesreturnsaccruals. itemsandderivatives.Theoverallriskmanagementstrategy
Salesreturnsallowancesrepresentareserveforproductsthat includesreasonsforundertakinghedgetransactionsandentering
maybereturnedduetoexpiration,destructioninthefield,orinspe- intoderivatives.Theobjectivesofthisstrategyare:(1)minimize
cificareas,productrecall.Thereturnsreserveisbasedonhistorical foreigncurrencyexposure’simpactontheCompany’sfinancial
returntrendsbyproductandbymarketasapercenttogrosssales. performance;(2)protecttheCompany’scashflowfromadverse
InaccordancewiththeCompany’saccountingpolicies,the movementsinforeignexchangerates;(3)ensuretheappropriate-
Companygenerallyissuescredittocustomersforreturnedgoods. nessoffinancialinstruments;and(4)managetheenterpriserisk
TheCompany’ssalesreturnsreservesareaccountedforinaccor- associatedwithfinancialinstitutions.SeeNote6foradditional
dancewithU.S.GAAPguidanceforrevenuerecognitionwhenright informationonFinancialInstruments.
ofreturnexists.Salesreturnsreservesarerecordedatfullsales
value.SalesreturnsintheConsumerandPharmaceuticalsegments PRODUCTLIABILITY
arealmostexclusivelynotresalable.Salesreturnsforcertainfran- Accrualsforproductliabilityclaimsarerecorded,onanundis-
chisesintheMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegmentaretypically countedbasis,whenitisprobablethataliabilityhasbeenincurred
resalablebutarenotmaterial.TheCompanyrarelyexchangesprod- andtheamountoftheliabilitycanbereasonablyestimatedbased
uctsfrominventoryforreturnedproducts.Thesalesreturnsreserve onexistinginformation.Theaccrualsareadjustedperiodicallyas
forthetotalCompanyhasrangedbetween1.0%and1.2%ofannual additionalinformationbecomesavailable.Asaresultofcostand
salestocustomersduringthepriorthreefiscalreportingyears2011, availabilityfactors,effectiveNovember1,2005,theCompany
2010and2009.
42 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTceasedpurchasingthird-partyproductliabilityinsurance.Basedon operations.Ingeneral,theincomestatementpresentationforthese
theavailabilityofpriorcoverage,receivablesforinsurancerecover- collaborationsisasfollows:
iesrelatedtoproductliabilityclaimsarerecordedonanundis-
Nature/TypeofCollaboration StatementofEarningsPresentation
countedbasis,whenitisprobablethatarecoverywillberealized.
Third-partysaleofproduct Salestocustomers
Royalties/milestonespaidto
CONCENTRATIONOFCREDITRISK
collaborativepartner
Globalconcentrationofcreditriskwithrespecttotradeaccounts
(post-regulatoryapproval)* Costofgoodssold
receivablescontinuestobelimitedduetothelargenumberof
Royaltiesreceivedfromcollaborativepartner Otherincome(expense),net
customersgloballyandadherencetointernalcreditpoliciesand
Upfrontpayments&milestones
creditlimits.RecenteconomicchallengesinItaly,Spain,Greeceand
paidtocollaborativepartner
Portugal(theSouthernEuropeanRegion)haveimpactedcertain
(pre-regulatoryapproval) Researchanddevelopmentexpense
paymentpatterns,whichhavehistoricallybeenlongerthanthose
Researchanddevelopmentpayments
experiencedintheU.S.andotherinternationalmarkets.Thetotal
tocollaborativepartner Researchanddevelopmentexpense
nettradeaccountsreceivablebalanceintheSouthernEuropean
Researchanddevelopment
Regionwasapproximately$2.4billionasofJanuary1,2012and
paymentsreceivedfrom
approximately$2.3billionasofJanuary2,2011.Approximately
collaborativepartner ReductionofResearchanddevelopmentexpense
$1.4billionasofJanuary1,2012andapproximately$1.3billionasof
*Milestonesarecapitalizedasintangibleassetsandamortizedtocostofgoodssoldover
January2,2011oftheSouthernEuropeanRegionnettradeaccounts
theusefullife.
receivablebalancerelatedtotheCompany’sConsumer,VisionCare
andDiabetesCarebusinessesaswellascertainPharmaceutical
ADVERTISING
andMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticscustomerswhichareinline
Costsassociatedwithadvertisingareexpensedintheyearincurred
withhistoricalcollectionpatterns.
andareincludedinselling,marketingandadministrativeexpenses.
Theremainingbalanceofnettradeaccountsreceivableinthe Advertisingexpensesworldwide,whichcomprisedtelevision,radio,
SouthernEuropeanRegionhasbeennegativelyimpactedbythe printmediaandInternetadvertising,were$2.6billion,$2.5billion
timingofpaymentsfromcertaingovernmentownedorsupported and$2.4billionin2011,2010and2009,respectively.
healthcarecustomersaswellascertaindistributorsofthePharma-
ceuticalandMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticslocalaffiliates.The
INCOMETAXES
totalnettradeaccountsreceivablebalanceforthesecustomers Incometaxesarerecordedbasedonamountsrefundableorpayable
wereapproximately$1.0billionatJanuary1,2012andJanuary2, forthecurrentyearandincludetheresultsofanydifference
2011.TheCompanycontinuestoreceivepaymentsfromthesecus- betweenU.S.GAAPaccountingandtaxreporting,recordedas
tomersandinsomecaseslatepaymentpremiums.Forcustomers deferredtaxassetsorliabilities.TheCompanyestimatesdeferred
wherepaymentisexpectedoverperiodsoftimelongerthanone taxassetsandliabilitiesbasedoncurrenttaxregulationsandrates.
year,revenueandtradereceivableshavebeendiscountedoverthe Changesintaxlawsandratesmayaffectrecordeddeferredtax
estimatedperiodoftimeforcollection.Allowancesfordoubtful assetsandliabilitiesinthefuture.Managementbelievesthat
accountshavebeenincreasedforthesecustomers,buthavebeen changesintheseestimateswouldnothaveamaterialeffectonthe
immaterialtodate.TheCompanywillcontinuetoworkclosely Company’sresultsofoperations,cashflowsorfinancialposition.
withthesecustomers,monitortheeconomicsituationandtake AtJanuary1,2012andJanuary2,2011,thecumulative
appropriateactionsasnecessary. amountsofundistributedinternationalearningswereapproximately
$41.6billionand$37.0billion,respectively.AtJanuary1,2012and
RESEARCHANDDEVELOPMENT January2,2011,theCompany’sforeignsubsidiariesheldbalances
Researchanddevelopmentexpensesareexpensedasincurred. ofcashandcashequivalentsintheamountsof$24.5billionand
Upfrontandmilestonepaymentsmadetothirdpartiesinconnec- $18.7billion,respectively.TheCompanyintendstocontinueto
tionwithresearchanddevelopmentcollaborationsareexpensedas reinvestitsundistributedinternationalearningstoexpandits
incurreduptothepointofregulatoryapproval.Paymentsmadeto internationaloperations;therefore,noU.S.taxexpensehasbeen
thirdpartiessubsequenttoregulatoryapprovalarecapitalizedand recordedwithrespecttotheundistributedportionnotintended
amortizedovertheremainingusefullifeoftherelatedproduct. forrepatriation.
Amountscapitalizedforsuchpaymentsareincludedinother SeeNote8totheConsolidatedFinancialStatementsfor
intangibles,netofaccumulatedamortization. furtherinformationregardingincometaxes.
TheCompanyentersintocollaborativearrangements,typically
withotherpharmaceuticalorbiotechnologycompanies,todevelop
NETEARNINGSPERSHARE
andcommercializedrugcandidatesorintellectualproperty.These
Basicearningspershareiscomputedbydividingnetearningsavail-
arrangementstypicallyinvolvetwo(ormore)partieswhoareactive
abletocommonshareholdersbytheweightedaveragenumberof
participantsinthecollaborationandareexposedtosignificantrisks
commonsharesoutstandingfortheperiod.Dilutedearningsper
andrewardsdependentonthecommercialsuccessoftheactivities.
sharereflectsthepotentialdilutionthatcouldoccurifsecurities
Thesecollaborationsusuallyinvolvevariousactivitiesbyoneor
wereexercisedorconvertedintocommonstockusingthetreasury
moreparties,includingresearchanddevelopment,marketingand
stockmethod.
sellinganddistribution.Often,thesecollaborationsrequireupfront,
milestoneandroyaltyorprofitsharepayments,contingentuponthe
USEOFESTIMATES
occurrenceofcertainfutureeventslinkedtothesuccessoftheasset
Thepreparationofconsolidatedfinancialstatementsinconformity
indevelopment.Amountsduefromcollaborativepartnersrelated
withaccountingprinciplesgenerallyacceptedintheU.S.requires
todevelopmentactivitiesaregenerallyreflectedasareductionof
managementtomakeestimatesandassumptionsthataffectthe
researchanddevelopmentexpensebecausetheperformanceof
amountsreported.Estimatesareusedwhenaccountingforsales
contractdevelopmentservicesisnotcentraltotheCompany’s
discounts,rebates,allowancesandincentives,productliabilities,
incometaxes,depreciation,amortization,employeebenefits,
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 43contingenciesandintangibleassetandliabilityvaluations.For 3.Inventories
instance,indeterminingannualpensionandpost-employmentben- Attheendof2011and2010,inventorieswerecomprisedof:
efitcosts,theCompanyestimatestherateofreturnonplanassets,
(DollarsinMillions) 2011 2010
andthecostoffuturehealthcarebenefits.Actualresultsmayor
Rawmaterialsandsupplies $1,206 1,073
maynotdifferfromthoseestimates.
TheCompanyfollowstheprovisionsofU.S.GAAPwhenrecord- Goodsinprocess 1,637 1,460
inglitigationrelatedcontingencies.Aliabilityisrecordedwhenaloss Finishedgoods 3,442 2,845
isprobableandcanbereasonablyestimated.Thebestestimateofa Totalinventories $6,285 5,378
losswithinarangeisaccrued;however,ifnoestimateintherangeis
betterthananyother,theminimumamountisaccrued.
4.Property,PlantandEquipment
ANNUALCLOSINGDATE Attheendof2011and2010,property,plantandequipmentatcost
TheCompanyfollowstheconceptofafiscalyear,whichendsonthe andaccumulateddepreciationwere:
SundaynearesttotheendofthemonthofDecember.Normally
(DollarsinMillions) 2011 2010
eachfiscalyearconsistsof52weeks,buteveryfiveorsixyearsthe
Landandlandimprovements $ 754 738
fiscalyearconsistsof53weeks,aswasthecasein2009,andwillbe
Buildingsandbuildingequipment 9,389 9,079
thecaseagainin2015.
Machineryandequipment 19,182 18,032
RECLASSIFICATION Constructioninprogress 2,504 2,577
Certainpriorperiodamountshavebeenreclassifiedtoconformto Totalproperty,plantandequipment,gross $31,829 30,426
currentyearpresentation. Lessaccumulateddepreciation 17,090 15,873
Totalproperty,plantandequipment,net $14,739 14,553
2.Cash,CashEquivalentsandCurrent
TheCompanycapitalizesinterestexpenseaspartofthecostofcon-
MarketableSecurities
structionoffacilitiesandequipment.Interestexpensecapitalizedin
Attheendof2011and2010,cash,cashequivalentsandcurrent
2011,2010and2009was$84million,$73millionand$101million,
marketablesecuritieswerecomprisedof:
respectively.
(DollarsinMillions) 2011 2010 Depreciationexpense,includingtheamortizationofcapitalized
Cash $ 2,709 2,293 interestin2011,2010and2009,was$2.3billion,$2.2billionand
Governmentsecuritiesandobligations 27,017 22,349 $2.1billion,respectively.
Corporatedebtsecurities 489 225 Uponretirementorotherdisposalofproperty,plantandequip-
ment,thecostsandrelatedamountsofaccumulateddepreciation
Moneymarketfunds 1,590 2,135
oramortizationareeliminatedfromtheassetandaccumulated
Timedeposits 456 656
depreciationaccounts,respectively.Thedifference,ifany,between
Totalcash,cashequivalentsand
thenetassetvalueandtheproceedsarerecordedinearnings.
currentmarketablesecurities $32,261 27,658
Theestimatedfairvaluewas$32,262millionasofJanuary1,2012 5.IntangibleAssetsandGoodwill
reflectinga$1millionunrealizedgainingovernmentsecuritiesand Attheendof2011and2010,thegrossandnetamountsof
obligations.Theestimatedfairvaluewasthesameasthecarrying intangibleassetswere:
valueasofJanuary2,2011.
AsofJanuary1,2012,currentmarketablesecuritiesconsisted (DollarsinMillions) 2011 2010
of$7,545millionand$174millionofgovernmentsecuritiesand Intangibleassetswithdefinitelives:
obligations,andcorporatedebtsecurities,respectively. Patentsandtrademarks—gross $ 7,947 6,660
AsofJanuary2,2011,currentmarketablesecuritiesconsisted Lessaccumulatedamortization 2,976 2,629
of$8,153millionand$150millionofgovernmentsecuritiesand Patentsandtrademarks—net $ 4,971 4,031
obligations,andcorporatedebtsecurities,respectively.
Otherintangibles—gross $ 8,716 7,674
Fairvalueofgovernmentsecuritiesandobligationsandcorpo-
Lessaccumulatedamortization 3,432 2,880
ratedebtsecuritieswereestimatedusingquotedbrokerpricesin
Otherintangibles—net $ 5,284 4,794
activemarkets.
TheCompanyinvestsitsexcesscashinbothdepositswith Intangibleassetswithindefinitelives:
majorbanksthroughouttheworldandotherhigh-qualitymoney Trademarks $ 6,034 5,954
marketinstruments.TheCompanyhasapolicyofmakinginvest- Purchasedin-processresearchanddevelopment 1,849 1,937
mentsonlywithcommercialinstitutionsthathaveatleastanA
Totalintangibleassetswithindefinitelives $ 7,883 7,891
(orequivalent)creditrating.
Totalintangibleassets—net $18,138 16,716
TheacquisitionofCrucellN.V.duringthefiscalfirstquarterof2011
increasedpurchasedin-processresearchanddevelopmentby
approximately$1.0billionandpatentsandtrademarksbyapproxi-
mately$0.7billion.Duringthefiscalsecondquarterof2011,the
Companyreclassifiedapproximately$1.0billionfrompurchased
in-processresearchanddevelopmenttoamortizableother
intangiblestoreflectthecommercializationofZYTIGA®.
44 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTGoodwillasofJanuary1,2012andJanuary2,2011,asallocated currentearningseffectoftherelatedforeigncurrencyassetsand
bysegmentofbusiness,wasasfollows: liabilities.TheCompanydoesnotenterintoderivativefinancial
instrumentsfortradingorspeculativepurposes,orcontaincreditrisk
MedDevices
relatedcontingentfeaturesorrequirementstopostcollateral.Onan
(DollarsinMillions) Consumer Pharmaceuticals andDiagnostics Total
ongoingbasis,theCompanymonitorscounterpartycreditratings.
GoodwillatJanuary3,2010 $8,074 1,244 5,544 14,862
TheCompanyconsiderscreditnon-performancerisktobelow,
Acquisitions — — 397 397
becausetheCompanyentersintoagreementswithcommercialinsti-
Currencytranslation/other* 70 (19) (16) 35
tutionsthathaveatleastanA(orequivalent)creditrating.Asof
GoodwillatJanuary2,2011 $8,144 1,225 5,925 15,294 January1,2012,theCompanyhadnotionalamountsoutstandingfor
Acquisitions 251 538 198 987 forwardforeignexchangecontractsandcrosscurrencyinterestrate
Currencytranslation/other (97) (42) (4) (143) swapsof$22billionand$3billion,respectively.
GoodwillatJanuary1,2012 $8,298 1,721 6,119 16,138 Allderivativeinstrumentsarerecordedonthebalancesheetat
fairvalue.Changesinthefairvalueofderivativesarerecordedeach
*Includesreclassificationbetweensegments.
periodincurrentearningsorothercomprehensiveincome,depending
Theweightedaverageamortizationperiodsforpatentsandtrade- onwhetherthederivativeisdesignatedaspartofahedgetransaction,
marksandotherintangibleassetsare17yearsand26years, andifso,thetypeofhedgetransaction.
respectively.Theamortizationexpenseofamortizableassetswas Thedesignationasacashflowhedgeismadeattheentrancedate
$852million,$748millionand$675millionbeforetax,forthefiscal intothederivativecontract.Atinception,allderivativesareexpected
yearsendedJanuary1,2012,January2,2011andJanuary3,2010, tobehighlyeffective.Changesinthefairvalueofaderivativethatis
respectively,whichincludesthewritedownsofcertainpatents designatedasacashflowhedgeandishighlyeffectivearerecorded
andintangibleassets.Thesewritedownsdidnothaveamaterial inaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincomeuntiltheunderlying
impactontheCompany’sresultsofoperations,cashflowsor transactionaffectsearnings,andarethenreclassifiedtoearningsin
financialposition. thesameaccountasthehedgedtransaction.Gains/lossesonnet
Theestimatedamortizationexpenseforthefivesucceeding investmenthedgesareaccountedforthroughthecurrencytranslation
yearsapproximates$840millionbeforetax,peryear.Substantially accountandareinsignificant.Onanongoingbasis,theCompany
alloftheamortizationexpenseisincludedincostofproductssold. assesseswhethereachderivativecontinuestobehighlyeffectiveinoff-
settingchangesinthecashflowsofhedgeditems.Ifandwhenaderiva-
tiveisnolongerexpectedtobehighlyeffective,hedgeaccountingis
6.FairValueMeasurements discontinued.Hedgeineffectiveness,ifany,isincludedincurrentperiod
TheCompanyusesforwardexchangecontractstomanageitsexpo- earningsinOther(income)expense,net.RefertoNote13fordisclo-
suretothevariabilityofcashflows,primarilyrelatedtotheforeign suresofmovementsinAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome.
exchangeratechangesoffutureintercompanyproductandthird- AsofJanuary1,2012,thebalanceofdeferrednetlosseson
partypurchasesofrawmaterialsdenominatedinforeigncurrency. derivativesincludedinaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome
TheCompanyalsousescrosscurrencyinterestrateswapstomanage was$168millionafter-tax.Foradditionalinformation,seeNote13.
currencyriskprimarilyrelatedtoborrowings.Bothtypesofderivatives TheCompanyexpectsthatsubstantiallyalloftheamountrelatedto
aredesignatedascashflowhedges.TheCompanyalsousesforward foreignexchangecontractswillbereclassifiedintoearningsoverthe
exchangecontractstomanageitsexposuretothevariabilityofcash next12monthsasaresultoftransactionsthatareexpectedtooccur
flowsforrepatriationofforeigndividends.Thesecontractsaredesig- overthatperiod.Themaximumlengthoftimeoverwhichthe
natedasnetinvestmenthedges.Additionally,theCompanyuses Companyishedgingtransactionexposureis18months,excluding
forwardexchangecontractstooffsetitsexposuretocertainforeign interestrateswaps.Theamountultimatelyrealizedinearningswill
currencyassetsandliabilities.Theseforwardexchangecontractsare differasforeignexchangerateschange.Realizedgainsandlosses
notdesignatedashedgesandtherefore,changesinthefairvaluesof areultimatelydeterminedbyactualexchangeratesatmaturityof
thesederivativesarerecognizedinearnings,therebyoffsettingthe thederivative.
ThefollowingtableisasummaryoftheactivityrelatedtodesignatedderivativesforthefiscalyearsendedJanuary1,2012and
January2,2011:
Gain/(Loss)
Gain/(Loss) reclassifiedfrom Gain/(Loss)
recognizedin AccumulatedOCI recognizedin
CashFlowHedges AccumulatedOCI(1) intoincome(1) Otherincome/expense(2)
(DollarsinMillions) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
Foreignexchangecontracts $ (60) (66) (9)(A) (52)(A) (1) (2)
Foreignexchangecontracts (103) (296) (154)(B) (300)(B) 2 (38)
Foreignexchangecontracts 24 51 (22)(C) 57(C) (1) 5
Crosscurrencyinterestrateswaps (406) (40) (45)(D) 6(D) — —
Foreignexchangecontracts 45 18 (2)(E) 1(E) 1 3
Total $(500) (333) (232) (288) 1 (32)
Allamountsshowninthetableabovearenetoftax.
(1)Effectiveportion
(2)Ineffectiveportion
(A)IncludedinSalestocustomers
(B)IncludedinCostofproductssold
(C)IncludedinResearchanddevelopmentexpense
(D)IncludedinInterest(income)/Interestexpense,net
(E)IncludedinOther(income)expense,net
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 45ForthefiscalyearsendedJanuary1,2012andJanuary2,2011,aloss thehierarchyaredescribedbelowwithLevel1havingthehighest
of$23millionand$31million,respectively,wasrecognizedinOther priorityandLevel3havingthelowest.
(income)expense,net,relatingtoforeignexchangecontractsnot Thefairvalueofaderivativefinancialinstrument(i.e.forward
designatedashedginginstruments. exchangecontract,currencyswap)istheaggregationbycurrencyof
Inaddition,duringthefiscalsecondquarterof2011,the allfuturecashflowsdiscountedtoitspresentvalueattheprevailing
Companyenteredintoanoptiontohedgethecurrencyriskassoci- marketinterestratesandsubsequentlyconvertedtotheU.S.Dollar
atedwiththecashportionofthepaymentfortheplannedacquisi- atthecurrentspotforeignexchangerate.TheCompanydoesnot
tionofSynthes,Inc.Theoptionwasnotdesignatedasahedge,and believethatfairvaluesofthesederivativeinstrumentsmaterially
therefore,changesinthefairvalueoftheoptionarerecognizedin differfromtheamountsthatcouldberealizeduponsettlementor
Other(income)expense,net.DuringthefiscalyearendedJanuary1, maturity,orthatthechangesinfairvaluewillhaveamaterialeffect
2012,themarktomarketadjustmenttoreducethevalueofthecur- ontheCompany’sresultsofoperations,cashflowsorfinancialposi-
rencyoptionwas$450millionwhichexpiredinJanuary2012.The tion.TheCompanyalsoholdsequityinvestmentsthatareclassified
costbasisoftheoptionwas$467million. asLevel1astheyaretradedinanactiveexchangemarket.
Duringthefiscalfourthquarterof2011,theCompanyreclassi- Thefollowingthreelevelsofinputsareusedtomeasure
fiedforeigncurrencybondmarktomarketadjustmentsfromforeign fairvalue:
currencytranslationtogain/(loss)onderivativesandhedges.There
Level1—Quotedpricesinactivemarketsforidenticalassets
wasnonetimpactwithinothercomprehensiveincomeasaresult
andliabilities.
ofthisreclassification.
Fairvalueistheexitpricethatwouldbereceivedtosellan Level2—Significantotherobservableinputs.
assetorpaidtotransferaliability.Fairvalueisamarket-based
Level3—Significantunobservableinputs.
measurementthatshouldbedeterminedusingassumptionsthat
marketparticipantswoulduseinpricinganassetorliability.
Theauthoritativeliteratureestablishesathree-levelhierarchyto
prioritizetheinputsusedinmeasuringfairvalue.Thelevelswithin
TheCompany’ssignificantfinancialassetsandliabilitiesmeasuredatfairvalueasofJanuary1,2012andJanuary2,2011wereasfollows:
2011 2010
(DollarsinMillions) Level1 Level2 Level3 Total Total(1)
Derivativesdesignatedashedginginstruments:
Assets:
Foreignexchangecontracts $ — 442 — 442 321
Crosscurrencyinterestrateswaps(2) — 15 — 15 17
Total — 457 — 457 338
Liabilities:
Foreignexchangecontracts — 452 — 452 586
Crosscurrencyinterestrateswaps(3) — 594 — 594 502
Total — 1,046 — 1,046 1,088
Derivativesnotdesignatedashedginginstruments:
Assets:
Foreignexchangecontracts — 29 — 29 19
SwissFrancOption* — 17 — 17 —
Total — 46 — 46 19
Liabilities:
Foreignexchangecontracts — 34 — 34 39
Otherinvestments(4) $1,563 — — 1,563 1,165
* CurrencyoptionrelatedtotheplannedacquisitionofSynthes,Inc.
(1)2010assetsandliabilitiesareallclassifiedasLevel2withtheexceptionofotherinvestmentsof$1,165millionwhichareclassifiedasLevel1.
(2)Includes$15millionand$14millionofnon-currentassetsforthefiscalyearsendingJanuary1,2012andJanuary2,2011,respectively.
(3)Includes$594millionand$502millionofnon-currentliabilitiesforthefiscalyearsendingJanuary1,2012andJanuary2,2011,respectively.
(4)Classifiedasnon-currentotherassets.
SeeNotes2and7forfinancialassetsandliabilitiesheldatcarryingamountontheConsolidatedBalanceSheet.
46 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORT7.Borrowings TheCompanyhasashelfregistrationwiththeU.S.Securities
Thecomponentsoflong-termdebtareasfollows: andExchangeCommissionthatenablestheCompanytoissuedebt
securitiesandwarrantstopurchasedebtsecuritiesonatimely
Effective Effective
basis.TheCompanyissuedbondsinMay2011foratotalof$4.4bil-
(DollarsinMillions) 2011 Rate% 2010 Rate%
lionforgeneralcorporatepurposes.
5.15%Debenturesdue2012 $ 599 5.18% 599 5.18
Aggregatematuritiesoflong-termobligationscommencingin
0.70%Notesdue2013 500 0.75 — —
2011are:
3.80%Debenturesdue2013 500 3.82 500 3.82
3monthLIBOR+0%FRNdue2013 500 0.46 — — (DollarsinMillions) After
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016
3monthLIBOR+0.09%FRNdue2014 750 0.55 — —
$616 1,545 1,816 — 898 8,710
1.20%Notesdue2014 999 1.24 — —
2.15%Notesdue2016 898 2.22 — —
5.55%Debenturesdue2017 1,000 5.55 1,000 5.55 8.IncomeTaxes
5.15%Debenturesdue2018 898 5.15 898 5.15 Theprovisionfortaxesonincomeconsistsof:
4.75%Notesdue2019
(DollarsinMillions) 2011 2010 2009
(1BEuro1.2892)(2)/
Currentlypayable:
(1BEuro1.3268)(3) 1,282(2)5.35 1,319(3)5.35
U.S.taxes $2,392 2,063 2,410
3%ZeroCouponConvertible
SubordinatedDebenturesdue2020 199 3.00 194 3.00 Internationaltaxes 1,133 1,194 1,515
2.95%Debenturesdue2020 541 3.15 541 3.15 Totalcurrentlypayable 3,525 3,257 3,925
3.55%Notesdue2021 446 3.67 — — Deferred:
6.73%Debenturesdue2023 250 6.73 250 6.73 U.S.taxes (690) (4) 187
5.50%Notesdue2024 Internationaltaxes (146) 360 (623)
(500MMGBP1.5421)(2)/ Totaldeferred (836) 356 (436)
(500MMGBP1.5403)(3) 765(2)5.71 764(3)5.71
Provisionfortaxesonincome $2,689 3,613 3,489
6.95%Notesdue2029 294 7.14 294 7.14
4.95%Debenturesdue2033 500 4.95 500 4.95
AcomparisonofincometaxexpenseattheU.S.statutoryrateof
5.95%Notesdue2037 995 5.99 995 5.99 35%in2011,2010and2009,totheCompany’seffectivetaxrateis
5.85%Debenturesdue2038 700 5.86 700 5.86 asfollows:
4.50%Debenturesdue2040 539 4.63 539 4.63
(DollarsinMillions) 2011 2010 2009
4.85%Notesdue2041 298 4.89 — —
U.S. $ 3,634 6,392 7,141
Other 132 76
International 8,727 10,555 8,614
13,585(4)4.08(1) 9,169(4)5.25(1)
Earningsbeforetaxesonincome: $12,361 16,947 15,755
Lesscurrentportion 616 13
Taxrates:
$12,969 9,156
U.S.statutoryrate 35.0% 35.0 35.0
(1)Weightedaverageeffectiverate. InternationaloperationsexcludingIreland (14.0) (7.5) (6.7)
(2)TranslationrateatJanuary1,2012.
IrelandandPuertoRicooperations (1.8) (5.1) (5.1)
(3)TranslationrateatJanuary2,2011.
Researchandorphandrugtaxcredits (0.8) (0.6) (0.6)
(4)Theexcessofthefairvalueoverthecarryingvalueofdebtwas$2.0billionin2011and
$1.0billionin2010. U.S.stateandlocal 2.1 1.0 1.8
U.S.manufacturingdeduction (0.8) (0.5) (0.4)
Fairvalueofthenon-currentdebtwasestimatedusingmarket
U.S.taxoninternationalincome (0.4) (0.6) (1.6)
prices,whichwerecorroboratedbyquotedbrokerpricesin
Allother(1) 2.5 (0.4) (0.3)
activemarkets.
TheCompanyhasaccesstosubstantialsourcesoffundsat Effectivetaxrate 21.8% 21.3 22.1
numerousbanksworldwide.InSeptember2011,theCompany (1)IncludesU.S.expensesnotfullytaxdeductibleprimarilyrelatedtolitigationexpense.
securedanew364-dayCreditFacility.Totalcreditavailabletothe
Companyapproximates$10billion,whichexpiresSeptember20, TheCompanyhassubsidiariesoperatinginPuertoRicoundervarious
2012.Interestchargedonborrowingsunderthecreditlineagree- taxincentivegrants.Theincreaseinthe2011taxratewasprimarily
mentsisbasedoneitherbidsprovidedbybanks,theprimerateor duetocertainU.S.expenseswhicharenotfullytaxdeductible
LondonInterbankOfferedRates(LIBOR),plusapplicablemargins. andhigherU.S.statetaxespartiallyoffsetbyincreasesintaxable
Commitmentfeesundertheagreementsarenotmaterial. incomeinlowertaxjurisdictionsrelativetohighertaxjurisdictions.
Throughout2011,theCompanycontinuedtohaveaccessto Thedecreaseinthe2010taxrateascomparedto2009wasprima-
liquiditythroughthecommercialpapermarket.Short-termborrow- rilyduetodecreasesintaxableincomeinhighertaxjurisdictions
ingsandthecurrentportionoflong-termdebtamountedtoapproxi- relativetotaxableincomeinlowertaxjurisdictionsandcertain
mately$6.7billionattheendof2011,ofwhich$5.3billionwas U.S.taxadjustments.
borrowedundertheCommercialPaperProgram.Theremainder
representsprincipallylocalborrowingbyinternationalsubsidiaries.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 47Temporarydifferencesandcarryforwardsfor2011and2010 unrecognizedtaxbenefitswillsignificantlychangeoverthenext
wereasfollows: twelvemonths.TheCompanyisnotabletoprovideareasonably
reliableestimateofthetimingofanyotherfuturetaxpayments
2011 2010
relatingtouncertaintaxpositions.
DeferredTax DeferredTax
TheCompanyclassifiesliabilitiesforunrecognizedtaxbenefits
(DollarsinMillions) Asset Liability Asset Liability
andrelatedinterestandpenaltiesaslong-termliabilities.Interest
Employeerelatedobligations $ 3,028 2,211
expenseandpenaltiesrelatedtounrecognizedtaxbenefitsareclas-
Stockbasedcompensation 1,358 1,225
sifiedasincometaxexpense.TheCompanyrecognizedaftertax
Depreciation (865) (769)
interestof$47millionexpense,$34millionincomeand$36million
Non-deductibleintangibles (2,997) (2,725)
expensein2011,2010and2009,respectively.Thetotalamountof
InternationalR&Dcapitalized accruedinterestwas$350millionand$264millionin2011and
fortax 1,509 1,461
2010,respectively.
Reserves&liabilities 1,527 948
Incomereportedfortaxpurposes 903 691
9.EmployeeRelatedObligations
Netoperatingloss
Attheendof2011and2010,employeerelatedobligationsrecorded
carryforwardinternational 1,183 1,134
ontheConsolidatedBalanceSheetwere:
Miscellaneousinternational 1,261 (422) 1,326 (106)
MiscellaneousU.S. 817 470 (DollarsinMillions) 2011 2010
Pensionbenefits $3,937 2,175
Totaldeferredincometaxes $11,586 (4,284) 9,466 (3,600)
Postretirementbenefits 2,843 2,359
Thedifferencebetweenthenetdeferredtaxonincomeperthe Postemploymentbenefits 1,129 1,379
balancesheetandthenetdeferredtaxaboveisincludedintaxes Deferredcompensation 863 820
onincomeonthebalancesheet.TheCompanyhaswholly-owned Totalemployeeobligations 8,772 6,733
internationalsubsidiariesthathavecumulativenetlosses.The Lesscurrentbenefitspayable 419 646
Companybelievesthatitismorelikelythannotthatthesesub-
Employeerelatedobligations—non-current $8,353 6,087
sidiarieswillrealizefuturetaxableincomesufficienttoutilizethese
deferredtaxassets.
Prepaidemployeerelatedobligationsof$249millionand$615mil-
Thefollowingtablesummarizestheactivityrelatedto
lionfor2011and2010,respectively,areincludedinotherassetson
unrecognizedtaxbenefits:
theConsolidatedBalanceSheet.
(DollarsinMillions) 2011 2010 2009
Beginningofyear $2,307 2,403 1,978 10.PensionsandOtherBenefitPlans
Increasesrelatedtocurrentyeartaxpositions 402 465 555 TheCompanysponsorsvariousretirementandpensionplans,
Increasesrelatedtopriorperiodtaxpositions 87 68 203 includingdefinedbenefit,definedcontributionandtermination
Decreasesrelatedtopriorperiodtaxpositions (77) (431) (163) indemnityplans,whichcovermostemployeesworldwide.The
Settlements (16) (186) (87) Companyalsoprovidespost-retirementbenefits,primarilyhealth
care,toallU.S.retiredemployeesandtheirdependents.
Lapseofstatuteoflimitations (4) (12) (83)
Manyinternationalemployeesarecoveredbygovernment-
Endofyear $2,699 2,307 2,403
sponsoredprogramsandthecosttotheCompanyisnotsignificant.
Retirementplanbenefitsareprimarilybasedontheemployee’s
Theunrecognizedtaxbenefitsof$2.7billionatJanuary1,2012,if
compensationduringthelastthreetofiveyearsbeforeretirement
recognized,wouldaffecttheCompany’sannualeffectivetaxrate.
andthenumberofyearsofservice.Internationalsubsidiarieshave
TheCompanyconductsbusinessandfilestaxreturnsinnumerous
plansunderwhichfundsaredepositedwithtrustees,annuitiesare
countriesandcurrentlyhastaxauditsinprogresswithanumberof
purchasedundergroupcontracts,orreservesareprovided.
taxauthorities.TheU.S.InternalRevenueService(IRS)hascom-
TheCompanydoesnotfundretireehealthcarebenefitsin
pleteditsauditforthetaxyearsthrough2005;however,therearea
advanceandhastherighttomodifytheseplansinthefuture.
limitednumberofissuesremainingopenforpriortaxyearsgoing TheCompanyusesthedateofitsconsolidatedfinancial
backto1999.InothermajorjurisdictionswheretheCompanycon- statements(January1,2012andJanuary2,2011,respectively)as
ductsbusiness,theyearsremainopengenerallybacktotheyear themeasurementdateforallU.S.andinternationalretirementand
2003.TheCompanydoesnotexpectthatthetotalamountof otherbenefitplans.
48 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTNetperiodicbenefitcostsfortheCompany’sdefinedbenefitretirementplansandotherbenefitplansfor2011,2010and2009include
thefollowingcomponents:
RetirementPlans OtherBenefitPlans
(DollarsinMillions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009
Servicecost $ 638 550 511 $149 134 137
Interestcost 853 791 746 188 202 174
Expectedreturnonplanassets (1,108) (1,005) (934) (1) (1) (1)
Amortizationofpriorservicecost 9 10 13 (3) (4) (5)
Amortizationofnettransitionasset 1 1 1 — — —
Recognizedactuariallosses 388 236 155 45 48 55
Curtailmentsandsettlements — 1 (11) — — (1)
Netperiodicbenefitcost $ 781 584 481 $378 379 359
ThenetperiodicbenefitcostattributabletoU.S.retirementplans UnrecognizedgainsandlossesfortheU.S.pensionplansareamor-
was$414million,$294millionand$286millionin2011,2010and tizedovertheaverageremainingfutureserviceforeachplan.For
2009,respectively. planswithnoactiveemployees,theyareamortizedovertheaverage
Amountsexpectedtoberecognizedinnetperiodicbenefitcost lifeexpectancy.Theamortizationofgainsandlossesfortheother
inthecomingyearfortheCompany’sdefinedbenefitretirement U.S.benefitplansisdeterminedbyusinga10%corridorofthe
plansandotherpost-retirementplans: greaterofthemarketvalueofassetsortheprojectedbenefitobliga-
tion.Totalunamortizedgainsandlossesinexcessofthecorridorare
(DollarsinMillions)
amortizedovertheaverageremainingfutureservice.
Amortizationofnettransitionobligation $ 1
Priorservicecosts/benefitsfortheU.S.pensionplansare
Amortizationofnetactuariallosses 553
amortizedovertheremainingfutureserviceofplanparticipantsat
Amortizationofpriorservicecost 4 thetimeoftheplanamendment.Priorservicecost/benefitforthe
otherU.S.benefitplansisamortizedovertheaverageremaining
servicetofulleligibilityageofplanparticipantsatthetimeofthe
planamendment.
Theweighted-averageassumptionsinthefollowingtablerepresenttheratesusedtodeveloptheactuarialpresentvalueofprojected
benefitobligationfortheyearlistedandalsothenetperiodicbenefitcostforthefollowingyear.
____________R_e_t_ir_e_m_e_n_t_P_la_n_s____________ ___________O_t_h_e_r_B_e_n_e_fi_t_P_la_n_s___________
(DollarsinMillions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009
U.S.BenefitPlans
Discountrate 5.22% 5.98 6.50 5.22% 5.98 6.50
Expectedlong-termrateofreturnonplanassets 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
Rateofincreaseincompensationlevels 4.25 4.25 4.50 4.25 4.25 4.50
InternationalBenefitPlans
Discountrate 4.94% 5.26 5.75 5.64% 6.32 6.75
Expectedlong-termrateofreturnonplanassets 7.87 8.00 8.00 — — —
Rateofincreaseincompensationlevels 4.05 4.00 4.00 4.70 4.75 4.75
TheCompany’sdiscountratesaredeterminedbyconsideringcur- Thefollowingtabledisplaystheassumedhealthcarecosttrend
rentyieldcurvesrepresentinghighquality,long-termfixedincome rates,forallindividuals:
instruments.Theresultingdiscountratesareconsistentwiththe
HealthCarePlans 2011 2010
durationofplanliabilities.
Healthcarecosttrendrateassumedfornextyear 7.50% 7.50
Theexpectedlong-termrateofreturnonplanassetsassump-
Ratetowhichthecosttrendrateisassumed
tionisdeterminedusingabuildingblockapproach,considering
todecline(ultimatetrend) 5.00% 5.00
historicalaveragesandrealreturnsofeachassetclass.Incertain
Yeartheratereachestheultimatetrendrate 2018 2018
countries,wherehistoricalreturnsarenotmeaningful,considera-
tionisgiventolocalmarketexpectationsoflong-termreturns.
Aone-percentage-pointchangeinassumedhealthcarecosttrend
rateswouldhavethefollowingeffect:
One-Percentage- One-Percentage-
(DollarsinMillions) PointIncrease PointDecrease
HealthCarePlans
Totalinterestandservicecost $ 42 $ (33)
Post-retirementbenefitobligation 422 (337)
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49Thefollowingtablesetsforthinformationrelatedtothebenefitobligationandthefairvalueofplanassetsatyear-end2011and2010forthe
Company’sdefinedbenefitretirementplansandotherpost-retirementplans:
RetirementPlans OtherBenefitPlans
(DollarsinMillions) 2011 2010 2011 2010
ChangeinBenefitObligation
Projectedbenefitobligation—beginningofyear $14,993 13,449 $3,572 3,590
Servicecost 638 550 149 134
Interestcost 853 791 188 202
Planparticipantcontributions 54 42 — —
Amendments (24) — — —
Actuariallosses 1,698 815 213 115
Divestitures&acquisitions 14 — — —
Curtailments&settlements&restructuring (6) (10) — —
Benefitspaidfromplan (659) (627) (320) (476)
Effectofexchangerates (137) (17) (12) 7
Projectedbenefitobligation—endofyear $17,424 14,993 $3,790 3,572
ChangeinPlanAssets
Planassetsatfairvalue—beginningofyear $13,433 10,923 $ 14 16
Actualreturnonplanassets (102) 1,466 (1) 2
Companycontributions 1,135 1,611 315 472
Planparticipantcontributions 54 42 — —
Settlements (2) (7) — —
Divestitures&acquisitions (2) — — —
Benefitspaidfromplanassets (659) (627) (320) (476)
Effectofexchangerates (121) 25 — —
Planassetsatfairvalue—endofyear $13,736 13,433 $ 8 14
Fundedstatus—endofyear $(3,688) (1,560) $(3,782) (3,558)
AmountsRecognizedintheCompany’sBalanceSheetconsistofthefollowing:
Non-currentassets $ 249 615 $ — —
Currentliabilities (59) (54) (346) (576)
Non-currentliabilities (3,878) (2,121) (3,436) (2,982)
Totalrecognizedintheconsolidatedbalancesheet—endofyear $(3,688) (1,560) $(3,782) (3,558)
AmountsRecognizedinAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncomeconsistofthefollowing:
Netactuarialloss $ 6,030 3,539 $1,218 1,017
Priorservicecost(credit) 6 39 (18) (21)
Unrecognizednettransitionobligation 3 4 1 —
Totalbeforetaxeffects $ 6,039 3,582 $1,201 996
AccumulatedBenefitObligations—endofyear $15,452 13,134
ChangesinPlanAssetsandBenefitObligationsRecognizedinOtherComprehensiveIncome
Netperiodicbenefitcost 781 584 378 379
Netactuarialloss 2,903 354 197 134
Amortizationofnetactuarial(loss)gain (388) (242) 8 (46)
Priorservicecost (24) — — —
Amortizationofpriorservice(cost)credit (9) (10) 3 4
Effectofexchangerates (25) 13 (3) 3
Totalrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome,beforetax $ 2,457 115 $ 205 95
Totalrecognizedinnetperiodicbenefitcostandothercomprehensiveincome $ 3,238 699 $ 583 474
TheCompanyplanstocontinuetofunditsU.S.QualifiedPlanstocomplywiththePensionProtectionActof2006.InternationalPlansare
fundedinaccordancewithlocalregulations.Additionaldiscretionarycontributionsaremadewhendeemedappropriatetomeetthelong-
termobligationsoftheplans.Forcertainplans,fundingisnotacommonpractice,asfundingprovidesnoeconomicbenefit.Consequently,
theCompanyhasseveralpensionplansthatarenotfunded.
In2011,theCompanycontributed$689millionand$446milliontoitsU.S.andinternationalpensionplans,respectively.
50 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTThefollowingtabledisplaysthefundedstatusoftheCompany’sU.S.Qualified&Non-Qualifiedpensionplansandinternationalfunded
andunfundedpensionplansatJanuary1,2012andJanuary2,2011,respectively:
U.S.Plans InternationalPlans
QualifiedPlans Non-QualifiedPlans FundedPlans UnfundedPlans
(DollarsinMillions) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
Planassets $ 9,132 8,815 — — 4,604 4,618 — —
Projectedbenefitobligation 10,283 8,460 1,155 955 5,626 5,215 360 363
Accumulatedbenefitobligation 9,147 7,561 903 761 5,078 4,489 324 323
Over(Under)FundedStatus
Projectedbenefitobligation (1,151) 355 (1,155) (955) (1,022) (597) (360) (363)
Accumulatedbenefitobligation $ (15) 1,254 (903) (761) (474) 129 (324) (323)
Planswithaccumulatedbenefitobligationsinexcessofplanassetshaveanaccumulatedbenefitobligation,projectedbenefitobligation
andplanassetsof$13.8billion,$15.4billionand$11.7billion,respectivelyattheendof2011and$2.4billion,$2.8billionand$0.8billion,
respectivelyattheendof2010.
ThefollowingtabledisplaystheprojectedfuturebenefitpaymentsfromtheCompany’sretirementandotherbenefitplans:
(DollarsinMillions) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017-2021
Projectedfuturebenefitpayments
Retirementplans $627 636 653 682 730 4,475
Otherbenefitplans—gross 365 277 216 218 218 1,112
Medicarerebates (11) — — — — —
Otherbenefitplans—net $354 277 216 218 218 1,112
ThefollowingtabledisplaystheprojectedfutureminimumcontributionstotheCompany’sU.S.andinternationalunfundedretirement
plans.TheseamountsdonotincludeanydiscretionarycontributionsthattheCompanymayelecttomakeinthefuture.
(DollarsinMillions) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017-2021
Projectedfuturecontributions
UnfundedU.S.retirementplans $39 41 44 47 51 329
Unfundedinternationalretirementplans $22 21 20 22 26 126
Eachpensionplanisoverseenbyalocalcommitteeorboardthatisresponsiblefortheoveralladministrationandinvestmentofthepension
plans.Indetermininginvestmentpolicies,strategiesandgoals,eachcommitteeorboardconsidersfactors,including:localpensionrules
andregulations;localtaxregulations;availabilityofinvestmentvehicles(separateaccounts,commingledaccounts,insurancefunds,etc.);
fundedstatusoftheplans;ratioofactivestoretirees;durationofliabilities;andotherrelevantfactorsincluding,diversification,liquidityof
localmarketsandliquidityofbasecurrency.AmajorityoftheCompany’spensionfundsareopentonewentrantsandareexpectedtobe
on-goingplans.Permittedinvestmentsareprimarilyliquidand/orlisted,withlittlerelianceonilliquidandnon-traditionalinvestmentssuch
ashedgefunds.Anassetallocationof75%equitiesand25%fixedincomeisgenerallypursuedunlesslocalregulationsandilliquidity
requireotherwise.
TheCompany’sretirementplanassetallocationattheendof2011and2010andtargetallocationsfor2012areasfollows:
Percentof Target
PlanAssets Allocation
2011 2010 2012
U.S.RetirementPlans
Equitysecurities 74% 79 75
Debtsecurities 26 21 25
Totalplanassets 100% 100 100
InternationalRetirementPlans
Equitysecurities 62% 65 64
Debtsecurities 38 35 36
Totalplanassets 100% 100 100
TheCompany’sotherbenefitplansareunfundedexceptforU.S.life ThefairvalueofJohnson&JohnsonCommonStockdirectly
insurancecontractassetsof$8millionand$14millionatJanuary1, heldinplanassetswas$476million(3.5%oftotalplanassets)at
2012andJanuary2,2011,respectively. January1,2012and$453million(3.4%oftotalplanassets)at
January2,2011.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 51DETERMINATIONOFFAIRVALUEOFPLANASSETS similarcharacteristicsordiscountedcashflows.Whenquoted
ThePlanhasanestablishedandwell-documentedprocessfor marketpricesforasecurityarenotavailableinanactivemarket,
determiningfairvalues.Fairvalueisbaseduponquotedmarket theyareclassifiedasLevel2.
prices,whereavailable.Iflistedpricesorquotesarenotavailable,
• Debtinstruments—Alimitednumberoftheseinvestmentsare
fairvalueisbaseduponmodelsthatprimarilyuse,asinputs,
valuedattheclosingpricereportedonthemajormarketonwhich
market-basedorindependentlysourcedmarketparameters,includ-
theindividualsecuritiesaretraded.Wherequotedpricesareavail-
ingyieldcurves,interestrates,volatilities,equityordebtprices,
ableinanactivemarket,theinvestmentsareclassifiedasLevel1.If
foreignexchangeratesandcreditcurves.
quotedmarketpricesarenotavailableforthespecificsecurity,then
WhilethePlanbelievesitsvaluationmethodsareappropriate
fairvaluesareestimatedbyusingpricingmodels,quotedpricesof
andconsistentwithothermarketparticipants,theuseofdifferent
securitieswithsimilarcharacteristicsordiscountedcashflowsand
methodologiesorassumptionstodeterminethefairvalueofcertain
areclassifiedasLevel2.Level3debtinstrumentsarepricedbased
financialinstrumentscouldresultinadifferentestimateoffairvalue
onunobservableinputs.
atthereportingdate.
• Equitysecurities—Commonstocksarevaluedattheclosing
pricereportedonthemajormarketonwhichtheindividualsecuri-
VALUATIONHIERARCHY
tiesaretraded.Substantiallyallcommonstockisclassifiedwithin
Theauthoritativeliteratureestablishesathree-levelhierarchyto
Level1ofthevaluationhierarchy.
prioritizetheinputsusedinmeasuringfairvalue.Thelevelswithin
thehierarchyaredescribedinthetablebelowwithLevel1having • Commingledfunds—Theinvestmentsarepublicinvestment
thehighestpriorityandLevel3havingthelowest. vehiclesvaluedusingtheNAVprovidedbythefundadministrator.
Afinancialinstrument’scategorizationwithinthevaluation TheNAVisbasedonthevalueoftheunderlyingassetsownedby
hierarchyisbaseduponthelowestlevelofinputthatissignificant thefund,minusitsliabilities,andthendividedbythenumberof
tothefairvaluemeasurement. sharesoutstanding.AssetsintheLevel2categoryhaveaquoted
Followingisadescriptionofthevaluationmethodologiesused marketpriceinamarketthatisnotactive.
fortheinvestmentsmeasuredatfairvalue. • Insurancecontracts—Theinstrumentsareissuedbyinsurance
• Short-terminvestments—Cashandquotedshort-terminstru- companies.Thefairvalueisbasedonnegotiatedvalueandthe
mentsarevaluedattheclosingpriceortheamountheldondeposit underlyinginvestmentsheldinseparateaccountportfoliosaswell
bythecustodianbank.Otherinvestmentsarethroughinvestment asconsideringthecreditworthinessoftheissuer.Theunderlying
vehiclesvaluedusingtheNetAssetValue(NAV)providedbythe investmentsaregovernment,asset-backedandfixedincomesecuri-
administratorofthefund.TheNAVisbasedonthevalueofthe ties.Ingeneral,insurancecontractsareclassifiedasLevel3asthere
underlyingassetsownedbythefund,minusitsliabilities,andthen arenoquotedpricesnorotherobservableinputsforpricing.
dividedbythenumberofsharesoutstanding.TheNAVisaquoted • Otherassets—Otherassetsarerepresentedprimarilybylimited
priceinamarketthatisnotactiveandclassifiedasLevel2. partnershipsandrealestateinvestments,aswellascommercial
• Governmentandagencysecurities—Alimitednumberofthese loansandcommercialmortgagesthatarenotclassifiedascorporate
investmentsarevaluedattheclosingpricereportedonthemajor debt.Otherassetsthatareexchangelistedandactivelytradedare
marketonwhichtheindividualsecuritiesaretraded.Wherequoted classifiedasLevel1,whileinactivelytradedassetsareclassifiedas
pricesareavailableinanactivemarket,theinvestmentsareclassi- Level2.Mostlimitedpartnershipsrepresentinvestmentsinprivate
fiedwithinLevel1ofthevaluationhierarchy.Ifquotedmarketprices equityandsimilarfundsthatarevaluedbythegeneralpartners.
arenotavailableforthespecificsecurity,thenfairvaluesareesti- These,aswellasanyotherassetsvaluedusingunobservableinputs,
matedbyusingpricingmodels,quotedpricesofsecuritieswith areclassifiedasLevel3.
ThefollowingtablesetsforththetrustinvestmentsmeasuredatfairvalueasofJanuary1,2012andJanuary2,2011:
QuotedPrices Significant
inActive Other Significant
Marketsfor Observable Unobservable
IdenticalAssets Inputs Inputs
(Level1) (Level2) (Level3) TotalAssets
(DollarsinMillions) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
Short-terminvestmentfunds $ 161 80 632 371 — — 793 451
Governmentandagencysecurities 59 69 1,528 1,484 — — 1,587 1,553
Debtinstruments 1 5 1,106 1,149 9 13 1,116 1,167
Equitysecurities 6,682 6,744 2 14 16 24 6,700 6,782
Commingledfunds 8 1 3,375 3,173 33 35 3,416 3,209
Insurancecontracts — — — — 25 29 25 29
Otherassets 1 10 33 150 65 82 99 242
Trustinvestmentsatfairvalue $6,912 6,909 6,676 6,341 148 183 13,736 13,433
52 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTLEVEL3GAINSANDLOSSES
ThetablebelowsetsforthasummaryofchangesinthefairvalueofthePlan’sLevel3assetsfortheyearsendedJanuary1,2012and
January2,2011:
Debt Equity Commingled Insurance Other Total
(DollarsinMillions) Instruments Securities Funds Contracts Assets Level3
BalanceJanuary3,2010 $ 5 15 26 32 82 160
Realizedgains(losses) (1) — — (3) 1 (3)
Unrealizedgains(losses) 1 4 4 — (3) 6
Purchases,sales,issuancesandsettlements,net 8 5 5 — 2 20
BalanceJanuary2,2011 13 24 35 29 82 183
Realizedgains(losses) — 3 — 1 — 4
Unrealizedgains(losses) 1 (2) (6) (2) (17) (26)
Purchases,sales,issuancesandsettlements,net (5) (9) 4 (3) — (13)
BalanceJanuary1,2012 $ 9 16 33 25 65 148
11.SavingsPlan 13.AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome
TheCompanyhasvoluntary401(k)savingsplansdesignedto Componentsofothercomprehensiveincome/(loss)consistof
enhancetheexistingretirementprogramscoveringeligibleemploy- thefollowing:
ees.TheCompanymatchesapercentageofeachemployee’s
Total
contributionsconsistentwiththeprovisionsoftheplanforwhich
Gains/ Accumulated
he/sheiseligible.TotalCompanymatchingcontributionstothe Foreign Gains/ (Losses)on Other
planswere$157million,$157millionand$163millionin2011,2010 Currency (Losses)on Employee Derivatives Comprehensive
(DollarsinMillions) Translation Securities BenefitPlans &Hedges Income/(Loss)
and2009,respectively.
December28,2008 $(1,871) 25 (3,230) 121 (4,955)
2009changes
12.CapitalandTreasuryStock Unrealizedgain(loss) — (52) — 38
Changesintreasurystockwere: Netamountreclassed
tonetearnings — (3) — (14)
(AmountsinMillionsExceptTreasury TreasuryStock
Net2009changes 1,363 (55) 565 24 1,897
StockSharesinThousands) Shares Amount
BalanceatDecember28,2008 350,665 $19,033 January3,2010 $ (508) (30) (2,665) 145 (3,058)
Employeecompensationandstockoptionplans (22,257) (1,383) 2010changes
Repurchaseofcommonstock 37,114 2,130 Unrealizedgain(loss) — 99 — (333)
Netamountreclassed
BalanceatJanuary3,2010 365,522 19,780
tonetearnings — (45) — 288
Employeecompensationandstockoptionplans (28,866) (1,794)
Net2010changes (461) 54 (21) (45) (473)
Repurchaseofcommonstock 45,090 2,797
January2,2011 $ (969) 24 (2,686) 100 (3,531)
BalanceatJanuary2,2011 381,746 20,783
2011changes
Employeecompensationandstockoptionplans (26,007) (1,649)
Unrealizedgain(loss) — 565 — (500)
Repurchaseofcommonstock 39,741 2,525
Netamountreclassed
BalanceatJanuary1,2012 395,480 $21,659
tonetearnings — (141) — 232
Net2011changes (557) 424 (1,700) (268) (2,101)
AggregatesharesofCommonStockissuedwereapproximately
3,119,843,000sharesattheendof2011,2010and2009. January1,2012 $(1,526) 448 (4,386) (168) (5,632)
Cashdividendspaidwere$2.25persharein2011,compared
withdividendsof$2.11persharein2010,and$1.93pershare Thetaxeffectontheunrealizedgains/(losses)onequitysecurities
in2009. wasexpenseof$241millionin2011,expenseof$13millionin
2010andincomeof$14millionin2009.Thetaxeffectrelatedto
employeebenefitplanswas$915million,$11millionand$302mil-
lionin2011,2010and2009,respectively.Thetaxeffectonthe
gains/(losses)onderivativesandhedgeswasincomeof$90million
in2011andexpenseof$54millionand$78millionin2010and
2009,respectively.SeeNote6foradditionalinformationrelating
toderivativesandhedging.
Thecurrencytranslationadjustmentsarenotadjustedfor
incometaxesastheyrelatetopermanentinvestmentsin
internationalsubsidiaries.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5314.InternationalCurrencyTranslation 17.CommonStock,StockOptionPlansandStock
Fortranslationofitssubsidiariesoperatinginnon-U.S.Dollarcur- CompensationAgreements
rencies,theCompanyhasdeterminedthatthelocalcurrenciesofits AtJanuary1,2012,theCompanyhad4stock-basedcompensa-
internationalsubsidiariesarethefunctionalcurrenciesexceptthose tionplans.Thesharesoutstandingareforcontractsunderthe
inhighlyinflationaryeconomies,whicharedefinedasthosewhich Company’s2000StockOptionPlan,the2005Long-TermIncentive
havehadcompoundcumulativeratesofinflationof100%ormore Plan,the1997Non-EmployeeDirector’sPlanandScios,Inc.Stock
duringthepastthreeyears,orwhereasubstantialportionofits OptionPlans.During2011,nooptionsorrestrictedshareswere
cashflowsarenotinthelocalcurrency. grantedunderanyoftheseplansexceptunderthe2005Long-Term
Inconsolidatinginternationalsubsidiaries,balancesheetcur- IncentivePlan.
rencyeffectsarerecordedasacomponentofaccumulatedother Thecompensationcostthathasbeenchargedagainstincome
comprehensiveincome.Thisequityaccountincludestheresults fortheseplanswas$621million,$614millionand$628millionfor
oftranslatingallbalancesheetassetsandliabilitiesatcurrent 2011,2010and2009,respectively.Thetotalincometaxbenefit
exchangerates,exceptforthoselocatedinhighlyinflationary recognizedintheincomestatementforshare-basedcompensation
economies.Thetranslationofbalancesheetaccountsforhighly costswas$207million,$205millionand$210millionfor2011,
inflationaryeconomiesarereflectedintheoperatingresults. 2010and2009,respectively.Thetotalunrecognizedcompensation
Ananalysisofthechangesduring2011,2010and2009for costwas$562million,$613millionand$612millionfor2011,2010
foreigncurrencytranslationadjustmentsisincludedinNote13. and2009,respectively.Theweightedaverageperiodforthiscost
NetcurrencytransactiongainsandlossesincludedinOther toberecognizedwas0.97years,1.05yearsand1.16yearsfor2011,
(income)expensewerelossesof$10million,$130millionand 2010,and2009,respectively.Share-basedcompensationcosts
$210millionin2011,2010and2009,respectively. capitalizedaspartofinventorywereinsignificantinallperiods.
STOCKOPTIONS
15.EarningsPerShare
Stockoptionsexpire10yearsfromthedateofgrantandvest
Thefollowingisareconciliationofbasicnetearningspershareto overserviceperiodsthatrangefromsixmonthstofouryears.
dilutednetearningspershareforthefiscalyearsendedJanuary1, Alloptionsaregrantedattheaverageofthehighandlowpricesof
2012,January2,2011andJanuary3,2010: theCompany’sCommonStockontheNewYorkStockExchange
onthedateofgrant.Underthe2005Long-TermIncentivePlan,
(InMillionsExceptPerShareData) 2011 2010 2009
theCompanymayissueupto260millionsharesofcommonstock.
Basicnetearningspershare $ 3.54 4.85 4.45
Sharesavailableforfuturegrantsunderthe2005Long-Term
Averageshares
IncentivePlanwere104.9millionattheendof2011.
outstanding—basic 2,736.0 2,751.4 2,759.5
TheCompanysettlesemployeestockoptionexerciseswith
Potentialsharesexercisable
treasuryshares.Treasurysharesarereplenishedthroughoutthe
understockoptionplans 158.3 156.1 118.0
yearforthenumberofsharesusedtosettleemployeestock
Less:sharesrepurchased
optionexercises.
undertreasurystockmethod (122.6) (122.3) (92.0)
Thefairvalueofeachoptionawardwasestimatedonthedate
Convertibledebtshares 3.6 3.6 3.6
ofgrantusingtheBlack-Scholesoptionvaluationmodelthatuses
Adjustedaverageshares
theassumptionsnotedinthefollowingtable.Expectedvolatility
outstanding—diluted 2,775.3 2,788.8 2,789.1
representsablendedrateof4-yeardailyhistoricalaveragevolatility
Dilutednetearningspershare $ 3.49 4.78 4.40
rate,anda5-weekaverageimpliedvolatilityratebasedonat-the-
moneytradedJohnson&Johnsonoptionswithalifeof2years.
Thedilutednetearningspersharecalculationincludesthedilutive
Historicaldataisusedtodeterminetheexpectedlifeoftheoption.
effectofconvertibledebtthatisoffsetbytherelatedreduction
Therisk-freeratewasbasedontheU.S.Treasuryyieldcurvein
ininterestexpenseof$4millionafter-taxforyears2011,2010
effectatthetimeofgrant.
and2009.
Theaveragefairvalueofoptionsgrantedwas$7.47,$8.03and
Dilutednetearningspershareexcludes51million,66million
$8.35,in2011,2010,and2009,respectively.Thefairvaluewas
and121millionsharesunderlyingstockoptionsfor2011,2010and
estimatedbasedontheweightedaverageassumptionsof:
2009,respectively,astheexercisepriceoftheseoptionswas
greaterthantheiraveragemarketvalue,whichwouldresultinan 2011 2010 2009
anti-dilutiveeffectondilutedearningspershare. Risk-freerate 2.41% 2.78% 2.71%
Expectedvolatility 18.2% 17.4% 19.5%
Expectedlife 6.0yrs 6.0yrs 6.0yrs
16.RentalExpenseandLeaseCommitments
Dividendyield 3.60% 3.30% 3.30%
Rentalsofspace,vehicles,manufacturingequipmentandofficeand
dataprocessingequipmentunderoperatingleaseswereapproxi-
mately$313million,$299millionand$322millionin2011,2010and
2009,respectively.
Theapproximateminimumrentalpaymentsrequiredunder
operatingleasesthathaveinitialorremainingnon-cancelablelease
termsinexcessofoneyearatJanuary1,2012are:
(DollarsinMillions) After
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 Total
$188 162 131 104 82 65 732
Commitmentsundercapitalleasesarenotsignificant.
54 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTAsummaryofoptionactivityunderthePlanasofJanuary1,2012, StockoptionsexercisableatJanuary2,2011andJanuary3,2010
January2,2011andJanuary3,2010andchangesduringtheyears were141,275atanaveragepriceof$59.25andanaveragelifeof
endingonthosedatesispresentedbelow: 4.7yearsand148,349atanaveragepriceof$57.26andanaverage
lifeof5.0years,respectively.
Weighted Aggregate
Outstanding Average IntrinsicValue
(SharesinThousands) Shares ExercisePrice (DollarsinMillions) RESTRICTEDSHAREUNITS
SharesatDecember28,2008 215,499 $58.14 $ 597 TheCompanygrantsrestrictedshareunitswithavestingperiodof
threeyears.TheCompanysettlesemployeestockissuanceswith
Optionsgranted 21,576 58.32
treasuryshares.Treasurysharesarereplenishedthroughoutthe
Optionsexercised (18,225) 50.97
yearforthenumberofsharesusedforemployeestockissuances.
Optionscanceled/forfeited (6,131) 61.85
AsummaryofshareactivityunderthePlanasofJanuary1,2012:
SharesatJanuary3,2010 212,719 58.66 1,310
Outstanding
Optionsgranted 13,996 62.62
(SharesinThousands) Shares
Optionsexercised (25,020) 51.84 SharesatDecember28,2008 22,258
Optionscanceled/forfeited (8,005) 62.36 Granted 11,172
SharesatJanuary2,2011 193,690 59.68 648 Issued (5,714)
Optionsgranted 9,530 62.21 Canceled/forfeited (1,392)
Optionsexercised (20,160) 56.65 SharesatJanuary3,2010 26,324
Optionscanceled/forfeited (3,601) 62.38 Granted 12,003
SharesatJanuary1,2012 179,459 $60.10 $1,004 Issued (6,297)
Canceled/forfeited (2,296)
Thetotalintrinsicvalueofoptionsexercisedwas$167million, SharesatJanuary2,2011 29,734
$278millionand$184millionin2011,2010and2009,respectively. Granted 11,478
Thefollowingtablesummarizesstockoptionsoutstandingand Issued (8,300)
exercisableatJanuary1,2012:
Canceled/forfeited (1,886)
(SharesinThousands) Outstanding Exercisable SharesatJanuary1,2012 31,026
Average Average
Exercise Average Exercise Exercise Theaveragefairvalueoftherestrictedshareunitsgrantedwas
PriceRange Options Life(1) Price Options Price
$55.90,$56.69and$52.79in2011,2010and2009,respectively,
$27.57-$49.86 93 1.4 $46.53 93 $46.53
usingthefairmarketvalueatthedateofgrant.Thefairvalueof
$50.52-$52.80 17,586 1.1 52.20 17,567 52.20
restrictedshareunitswasdiscountedfordividends,whichare
$53.00-$57.30 35,004 1.3 55.19 35,004 55.19
notpaidontherestrictedshareunitsduringthevestingperiod.
$57.44-$58.34 36,660 5.5 58.33 18,389 58.34 Thefairvalueofrestrictedshareunitssettledwas$458.9million,
$58.42-$65.10 39,951 7.3 62.14 16,943 61.77 $375.0millionand$308.4millionin2011,2010and2009,
$65.62-$68.37 50,165 3.8 65.97 50,130 65.97 respectively.
179,459 4.2 $60.10 138,126 $59.94
(1)Averagecontractualliferemaininginyears.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5518.SegmentsofBusiness(1)andGeographicAreas
SalestoCustomers(2)
(DollarsinMillions) 2011 2010 2009
Consumer—
UnitedStates $ 5,151 5,519 6,837
International 9,732 9,071 8,966
Total 14,883 14,590 15,803
Pharmaceutical—
UnitedStates 12,386 12,519 13,041
International 11,982 9,877 9,479
Total 24,368 22,396 22,520
MedicalDevicesandDiagnostics—
UnitedStates 11,371 11,412 11,011
International 14,408 13,189 12,563
Total 25,779 24,601 23,574
Worldwidetotal $65,030 61,587 61,897
OperatingProfit IdentifiableAssets
(DollarsinMillions) 2011(5) 2010(6) 2009(7) 2011 2010 2009
Consumer $ 2,096 2,342 2,475 $ 24,210 23,753 24,671
Pharmaceutical 6,406 7,086 6,413 23,747 19,961 21,460
MedicalDevicesandDiagnostics 5,263 8,272 7,694 23,609 23,277 22,853
Total 13,765 17,700 16,582 71,566 66,991 68,984
Less:Expensenotallocatedtosegments(3) 1,404 753 827
Generalcorporate(4) 42,078 35,917 25,698
Worldwidetotal $12,361 16,947 15,755 $113,644 102,908 94,682
AdditionstoProperty, Depreciationand
Plant&Equipment Amortization
(DollarsinMillions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009
Consumer $ 670 526 439 $ 631 532 513
Pharmaceutical 729 508 535 958 912 922
MedicalDevicesandDiagnostics 1,095 1,113 1,114 1,331 1,270 1,124
Segmentstotal 2,494 2,147 2,088 2,920 2,714 2,559
Generalcorporate 399 237 277 238 225 215
Worldwidetotal $2,893 2,384 2,365 $3,158 2,939 2,774
SalestoCustomers(2) Long-LivedAssets(8)
(DollarsinMillions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009
UnitedStates $28,908 29,450 30,889 $ 23,529 23,315 22,399
Europe 17,129 15,510 15,934 19,056 16,791 17,347
WesternHemisphereexcludingU.S. 6,418 5,550 5,156 3,517 3,653 3,540
Asia-Pacific,Africa 12,575 11,077 9,918 2,163 2,089 1,868
Segmentstotal 65,030 61,587 61,897 48,265 45,848 45,154
Generalcorporate 750 715 790
Othernonlong-livedassets 64,629 56,345 48,738
Worldwidetotal $65,030 61,587 61,897 $113,644 102,908 94,682
(1)SeeNote1foradescriptionofthesegmentsinwhichtheCompanyoperates.
(2)Exportsalesarenotsignificant.In2011,2010and2009,theCompanydidnothaveacustomerthatrepresented10%oftotalrevenues.
(3)Amountsnotallocatedtosegmentsincludeinterest(income)expense,non-controllinginterestsandgeneralcorporate(income)expense.Includedin2011,wasa$0.5billionexpensefor
theadjustmenttothevalueofthecurrencyoptionrelatedtotheplannedacquisitionofSynthes,Inc.
(4)Generalcorporateincludescashandmarketablesecurities.
(5)Includes$1,710millionofnetlitigationexpense,comprisedof$1,668millionand$42millioninthePharmaceuticalandMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegments,respectively.Includes
$1,600millionofproductliabilityexpense,comprisedof$73millioninthePharmaceuticalsegmentand$1,527millionintheMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegment.Includes
$656millionofnetrestructuringexpense,comprisedof$676millionexpenseintheMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegmentandagainof$20millioninthePharmaceuticalsegment.
TheMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegmentalsoincludes$521millionexpenseforthecostassociatedwiththeDePuyASR™Hiprecallprogram.
(6)Includes$966millionofnetlitigationgain,comprisedof$333millionexpenseinthePharmaceuticalsegmentandagainof$1,299millionintheMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegment.
Includes$569millionofproductliabilityexpense,comprisedof$114millioninthePharmaceuticalsegmentand$455millionintheMedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegment.TheMedical
DevicesandDiagnosticssegmentalsoincludes$280millionexpenseforthecostassociatedwiththeDePuyASR™Hiprecallprogram.
(7)Includes$1,186millionofrestructuringexpense,comprisedof$369million,$496million,and$321millionfortheConsumer,Pharmaceutical,andMedicalDevicesandDiagnostics
segments,respectively.Includes$386millionoffourthquarternetlitigationgain,comprisedofa$92millionexpenseinthePharmaceuticalsegmentandagainof$478millioninthe
MedicalDevicesandDiagnosticssegment.
(8)Long-livedassetsincludeproperty,plantandequipment,netfor2011,2010and2009of$14,739,$14,553and$14,759,respectively,andintangibleassetsandgoodwill,netfor2011,2010
and2009of$34,276,$32,010and$31,185,respectively.
56 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORT19.SelectedQuarterlyFinancialData(unaudited)
Selectedunauditedquarterlyfinancialdatafortheyears2011and2010aresummarizedbelow:
2011 2010
First Second Third Fourth First Second Third Fourth
(DollarsinMillionsExceptPerShareData) Quarter(1) Quarter(2) Quarter(3) Quarter(4) Quarter(5) Quarter(6) Quarter Quarter(7)
Segmentsalestocustomers
Consumer $ 3,682 3,793 3,740 3,668 3,766 3,647 3,567 3,610
Pharmaceutical 6,059 6,233 5,982 6,094 5,638 5,553 5,495 5,710
MedicalDevicesandDiagnostics 6,432 6,571 6,283 6,493 6,227 6,130 5,920 6,324
Totalsales $16,173 16,597 16,005 16,255 15,631 15,330 14,982 15,644
Grossprofit 11,395 11,425 10,933 10,917 11,103 10,700 10,388 10,604
Earningsbeforeprovisionfortaxesonincome 4,510 3,422 4,111 318 6,280 4,220 4,219 2,228
Netearnings 3,476 2,776 3,202 218 4,526 3,449 3,417 1,942
Basicnetearningspershare $ 1.27 1.01 1.17 0.08 1.64 1.25 1.24 0.71
Dilutednetearningspershare $ 1.25 1.00 1.15 0.08 1.62 1.23 1.23 0.70
(1)Thefirstquarterof2011includesanafter-taxchargeof$271millionfromlitigationandproductliabilityexpenses,andDePuyASR™Hiprecallcosts.
(2)Thesecondquarterof2011includesafter-taxchargesof$549millionforrestructuring,$325millionfromlitigation,productliabilityexpensesandDePuyASR™Hiprecallcosts,partially
offsetbya$102millionafter-taxgainassociatedwithanadjustmenttothevalueofthecurrencyoptionrelatedtotheplannedacquisitionofSynthes,Inc.
(3)Thethirdquarterof2011includesa$241millionafter-taxchargeassociatedwithanadjustmenttothevalueofthecurrencyoptionanddealcostsrelatedtotheplannedacquisitionof
Synthes,Inc.
(4)Thefourthquarterof2011includesafter-taxchargesof$1,022millionfromnetlitigationsettlements,$1,217millionforproductliabilityexpenses,$336millionforthecostassociatedwith
theDePuyASR™Hiprecallprogramand$338millionassociatedwithanadjustmenttothevalueofthecurrencyoptionanddealcostsrelatedtotheplannedacquisitionofSynthes,Inc.
(5)Thefirstquarterof2010includes$910millionafter-taxofincomefromnetlitigation.
(6)Thesecondquarterof2010includes$67millionafter-taxofincomefromnetlitigation.
(7)Thefourthquarterof2010includesanafter-taxchargeof$279millionfromnetlitigationsettlements,anafter-taxchargeof$404millionforproductliabilityexpenseandanafter-tax
chargeof$239millionforthecostassociatedwiththeDePuyASR™Hiprecallprogram.
20.BusinessCombinationsandDivestitures commonstock,subjecttocertainconditions,wouldbeexchanged
Certainbusinesseswereacquiredfor$2,797millionincashand forapproximately35%incashand65%inJohnson&Johnson
$228millionofliabilitiesassumedduring2011.Theseacquisitions commonstock.Synthes,Inc.isapremierglobaldeveloperand
wereaccountedforbythepurchasemethodand,accordingly, manufactureroforthopaedicsdevices.OnDecember15,2011,a
resultsofoperationshavebeenincludedinthefinancialstatements specialmeetingofstockholderswasheldattheSynthes’officesand
fromtheirrespectivedatesofacquisition. theSynthesshareholdersapprovedtheproposaltoadopttheagree-
The2011acquisitionsincluded:CrucellN.V.,aglobalbiophar- mentandplanofmerger.Theacquisitionisexpectedtocloseinthe
maceuticalcompanyfocusedontheresearchanddevelopment, firsthalfof2012.
productionandmarketingofvaccinesandantibodiesagainstinfec- Certainbusinesseswereacquiredfor$1,269millionincashand
tiousdiseaseworldwide;theover-the-counter(OTC)brandsof $52millionofliabilitiesassumedduring2010.Theseacquisitions
J.B.Chemicals&PharmaceuticalsLimited,includingRINZA®,Russia’s wereaccountedforbythepurchasemethodand,accordingly,
leadingmulti-symptomcoughandcoldbrand,andDOKTORMOM®, resultsofoperationshavebeenincludedinthefinancialstatements
Russia’snumbertwosellingcoughbrand,aswellasseveralother fromtheirrespectivedatesofacquisition.
brands;fullownershipoftheJohnson&Johnson-MerckConsumer The2010acquisitionsincluded:Acclarent,Inc.,aprivatelyheld
PharmaceuticalsCo.jointventureintheU.S.fromMerckSharp& medicaltechnologycompanydedicatedtodesigning,developing
DohmeCorp;andSterilMed,Inc.,aleaderinthereprocessingand andcommercializingdevicesthataddressconditionsaffectingthe
re-manufacturingofmedicaldevicesintheU.S. ear,noseandthroat(ENT);RespiVertLtd.,aprivatelyhelddrug
Theexcessofpurchasepriceovertheestimatedfairvalueof discoverycompanyfocusedondevelopingsmall-molecule,inhaled
tangibleassetsacquiredamountedto$2,657millionandhasbeen therapiesforthetreatmentofpulmonarydiseases;andMicrus
assignedtoidentifiableintangibleassets,withanyresidualrecorded EndovascularCorporation,aglobaldeveloperandmanufacturerof
togoodwill.Ofthisamount,approximately$982millionhasbeen minimallyinvasivedevicesforhemorrhagicandischemicstroke.
identifiedasthevalueofIPR&Dassociatedwiththeacquisitionof Theexcessofpurchasepriceovertheestimatedfairvalueof
CrucellN.V. tangibleassetsacquiredamountedto$1,185millionandhasbeen
TheIPR&DrelatedtotheacquisitionofCrucellN.V.of$982mil- assignedtoidentifiableintangibleassets,withanyresidualrecorded
lionisassociatedwithvaccinesandantibodiesthatpreventand/or togoodwill.Ofthisamount,approximately$213millionhasbeen
treatinfectiousdiseases.ThevalueoftheIPR&Dwascalculated identifiedasthevalueofIPR&Dassociatedwiththeacquisitionsof
usingcashflowprojectionsdiscountedfortheriskinherentinsuch Acclarent,Inc.,RespiVertLtd.andMicrusEndovascularCorporation.
projects.Probabilityofsuccessfactorsrangingfrom14–81%were TheIPR&DrelatedtotheacquisitionofAcclarent,Inc.was
usedtoreflectinherentclinicalandregulatoryrisk.Thediscountrate $75millionandisassociatedwithnovel,endoscopic,catheter-
appliedwas16%. baseddevicestomeettheneedsofENTpatients.Thevalueofthe
Duringthefiscalsecondquarterof2011,theCompanyentered IPR&Dwascalculatedusingcashflowprojectionsdiscountedfor
intoadefinitiveagreementtoacquireSynthes,Inc.forapproximately theriskinherentinsuchprojects.Probabilityofsuccessfactors
$21.3billion,approximately$19.3billionnetofcashacquired,subject rangingfrom50–53%wereusedtoreflectinherentclinicaland
tothetermsofthemergeragreementandcurrencyvaluesatthetime regulatoryrisk.Thediscountrateappliedwas16%.
ofclosing.Underthetermsoftheagreement,eachshareofSynthes
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 57TheIPR&DrelatedtotheacquisitionofRespiVertLtd.,was $793millionrepresentsthefairvalueofthe18.4%investmentin
$100millionandisassociatedwithnarrowspectrumkinase ElanbasedonElan’ssharepriceinanactivelytradedmarketasof
inhibitorswithauniqueprofileofanti-inflammatoryactivitiesas thedateofthistransaction.TheIPR&Drelatedtothistransaction
treatmentsformoderatetosevereasthma,ChronicObstructive was$679millionandisassociatedwithbapineuzumab,apotential
PulmonaryDisease(COPD)andCysticFibrosis(CF).Thevalueof first-in-classtreatmentthatisbeingevaluatedforslowingthepro-
theIPR&Dwascalculatedusingcashflowprojectionsdiscounted gressionofAlzheimer’sDisease.ThevalueoftheIPR&Dwascalcu-
fortheriskinherentinsuchprojects.Probabilityofsuccessfactors latedusingcashflowprojectionsdiscountedfortheriskinherentin
rangingfrom10–12%wereusedtoreflectinherentclinicaland suchprojects.Probabilityofsuccessfactorsrangingfrom40–50%
regulatoryrisk.Thediscountrateappliedwas17%. wereusedtoreflectinherentclinicalandregulatoryrisk.Thedis-
TheIPR&DrelatedtotheacquisitionofMicrusEndovascular countrateappliedwas26%.Thenon-controllinginterestrelatedto
Corporationwas$38millionandisassociatedwithischemicand thistransactionwas$590million,whichtheCompanyhasrecorded
flowdivertertechnologies.ThevalueoftheIPR&Dwascalculated inothernon-currentliabilities.
usingcashflowprojectionsdiscountedfortheriskinherentinsuch Supplementalproformainformationfor2011,2010and2009in
projects.Probabilityofsuccessfactorsrangingfrom50–75%were accordancewithU.S.GAAPstandardsrelatedtobusinesscombina-
usedtoreflectinherentclinicalandregulatoryrisk.Thediscount tions,andgoodwillandotherintangibleassets,isnotprovided,as
rateappliedwas14%. theimpactoftheaforementionedacquisitionsdidnothaveamate-
Certainbusinesseswereacquiredfor$2,470millionincash rialeffectontheCompany’sresultsofoperations,cashflowsor
and$875millionofliabilitiesassumedandnon-controllinginterests financialposition.
during2009.Theseacquisitionswereaccountedforbythepur- During2011,theCompanydivestituresincluded,theAnimal
chasemethodand,accordingly,resultsofoperationshavebeen HealthBusinesstoElanco,aDivisionofEliLilly,MONISTAT®in
includedinthefinancialstatementsfromtheirrespectivedates Canada,theU.S.anditsterritories(includingPuertoRico),assets
ofacquisition. oftheOrthoDermatologicsdivisionintheU.S.tosubsidiariesof
The2009acquisitionsincluded:MentorCorporation,aleading ValeantPharmaceuticalsInternational,Inc.andtheSurgicalInstru-
supplierofmedicalproductsfortheglobalaestheticsmarket; mentsBusinessofCodman&Shurtleff,Inc.In2011,thegainson
CougarBiotechnology,Inc.,adevelopmentstagebiopharmaceutical thedivestituresofbusinesseswere$1.0billion.During2010,the
companywithaspecificfocusononcology;FinsburyOrthopaedics CompanydivestituresincludedtheBreastCareBusinessofEthicon
Limited,aprivatelyheldUK-basedmanufacturerandglobaldis- Endo-SurgeryInc.Thegainsonthedivestitureswererecognizedin
tributoroforthopaedicimplants;GlosterEurope,aprivatelyheld Other(income)expense,net.
developerofinnovativedisinfectionprocessesandtechnologiesto
preventhealthcare-acquiredinfectionsandsubstantiallyallofthe
21.LegalProceedings
assetsandrightsofElan’sAlzheimer’sImmunotherapyProgram
throughanewlyformedcompany,ofwhichtheCompanyowns Johnson&Johnsonandcertainofitssubsidiariesareinvolvedin
50.1%andElanowns49.9%. variouslawsuitsandclaimsregardingproductliability,intellectual
Theexcessofpurchasepriceovertheestimatedfairvalueof property,commercialandothermatters;governmentalinvestiga-
tangibleassetsacquiredamountedto$2,940millionandhasbeen tions;andotherlegalproceedingsthatarisefromtimetotimein
assignedtoidentifiableintangibleassets,withanyresidualrecorded theordinarycourseoftheirbusiness.
togoodwill.Ofthisamount,approximately$1,737millionhasbeen TheCompanyrecordsaccrualsforsuchcontingencieswhenit
identifiedasthevalueofIPR&Dprimarilyassociatedwiththeacqui- isprobablethataliabilitywillbeincurredandtheamountoftheloss
sitionsofCougarBiotechnology,Inc.andsubstantiallyallofthe canbereasonablyestimated.AsofJanuary1,2012,theCompany
assetsandrightsofElan’sAlzheimer’sImmunotherapyProgram. hasdeterminedthattheliabilitiesassociatedwithcertainlitigation
Additionally,approximately$1,107millionhasbeenidentifiedas mattersareprobableandcanbereasonablyestimated.The
thevalueofotherintangibleassets,includingpatentsandtechnol- Companyhasaccruedforthesemattersandwillcontinuetomoni-
ogyandcustomerrelationshipsprimarilyassociatedwiththe toreachrelatedlegalissueandadjustaccrualsfornewinformation
acquisitionofMentorCorporation. andfurtherdevelopmentsinaccordancewithASC450-20-25.For
TheIPR&DrelatedtotheacquisitionofCougarBiotechnology, theseandotherlitigationandregulatorymatterscurrentlydisclosed
Inc.was$971millionandisassociatedwithabirateroneacetate,a forwhichalossisprobableorreasonablypossible,theCompanyis
latestage,first-in-classcompoundforthetreatmentofprostate unabletodetermineanestimateofthepossiblelossorrangeof
cancer.ThevalueoftheIPR&Dwascalculatedusingcashflowpro- lossbeyondtheamountsalreadyaccrued.Thesematterscanbe
jectionsdiscountedfortheriskinherentinsuchprojects.Probability affectedbyvariousfactors,includingwhetherdamagessoughtin
ofsuccessfactorsrangingfrom60–85%wereusedtoreflect theproceedingsareunsubstantiatedorindeterminate;scientificand
inherentclinicalandregulatoryrisk.Thediscountrateapplied legaldiscoveryhasnotcommencedorisnotcomplete;proceedings
was23.5%. areinearlystages;matterspresentlegaluncertainties;thereare
During2009,theCompanyacquiredsubstantiallyallofthe significantfactsindispute;ortherearenumerouspartiesinvolved.
assetsandrightsofElan’sAlzheimer’sImmunotherapyProgram IntheCompany’sopinion,basedonitsexaminationofthese
throughanewlyformedcompany,JanssenAlzheimerImmunother- matters,itsexperiencetodateanddiscussionswithcounsel,the
apy(JAI),ofwhichtheCompanyowns50.1%andElanowns49.9%. ultimateoutcomeoflegalproceedings,netofliabilitiesaccruedinthe
Inaddition,theCompanypurchasedapproximately107million Company’sbalancesheet,isnotexpectedtohaveamaterialadverse
newlyissuedAmericanDepositaryReceipts(ADRs)ofElan,repre- effectontheCompany’sfinancialposition.However,theresolution
senting18.4%ofElan’soutstandingordinaryshares.Aspartofthis inanyreportingperiodofoneormoreofthesematters,eitheralone
transaction,theCompanypaid$885milliontoElanandcommitted orintheaggregate,mayhaveamaterialadverseeffectonthe
tofundupto$250millionofElan’sshareofresearchanddevelop- Company’sresultsofoperations,andcashflowsforthatperiod.
mentspendingbyJAI.Ofthistotalconsiderationof$1,135million,
58 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTPRODUCTLIABILITY (EES)intheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrictofConnecti-
CertainofJohnson&Johnson’ssubsidiariesareinvolvedinnumerous cutallegingthatseveralfeaturesofEES’sHARMONIC®Scalpel
productliabilitycases.Thedamagesclaimedaresubstantial,and infringedfourTycopatents.InOctober2007,onmotionsforsum-
whilethesesubsidiariesareconfidentoftheadequacyofthewarn- maryjudgmentpriortotheinitialtrial,anumberofclaimswere
ingsandinstructionsforusethataccompanytheproductsatissue,it foundinvalidandanumberwerefoundinfringed.However,noclaim
isnotfeasibletopredicttheultimateoutcomeoflitigation.The wasfoundbothvalidandinfringed.TrialcommencedinDecember
Companyhasestablishedproductliabilityaccrualsincompliance 2007,andthecourtdismissedthecasewithoutprejudiceon
withASC450-20basedoncurrentlyavailableinformation,whichin groundsthatTycodidnotownthepatentsinsuit.Thedismissal
somecasesmaybelimited.Changestotheaccrualsmayberequired withoutprejudicewasaffirmedonappeal.InJanuary2010,Tyco
inthefutureasadditionalinformationbecomesavailable. filedanothercomplaintintheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtforthe
MultipleproductsofJohnson&Johnson’ssubsidiariesaresub- DistrictofConnecticutassertinginfringementofthreeofthefour
jecttoproductliabilityclaimsandlawsuitsinwhichclaimantsseek patentsfromthepreviouslawsuitandaddingnewproducts.Tyco
substantialcompensatoryand,whereavailable,punitivedamages, isseekingmonetarydamagesandinjunctiverelief.Thiscaseis
includingLEVAQUIN®,theASR™XLAcetabularSystemandDePuy scheduledtobetriedinMay2012.
ASR™HipResurfacingSystem,thePINNACLE®AcetabularCup StartinginMarch2006,CordisCorporation(Cordis)filed
System,RISPERDAL®,pelvicmeshes,theCYPHER®Stentand patentinfringementlawsuitsintheUnitedStatesDistrictCourts
DURAGESIC®/fentanylpatches.AsofJanuary1,2012,therewere fortheDistrictsofNewJerseyandDelaware,againstGuidant
approximately3,800claimantswithpendinglawsuitsregarding Corporation(Guidant),AbbottLaboratories,Inc.(Abbott),Boston
injuriesallegedlyduetoLEVAQUIN®,4,700withrespecttothe ScientificCorporation(BostonScientific)andMedtronicAve,Inc.
ASR™XLAcetabularSystemandDePuyASR™HipResurfacing (Medtronic)allegingthattheXienceV™(Abbott),Promus™
System,860withrespecttothePINNACLE®AcetabularCup (BostonScientific)andEndeavor®(Medtronic)drugelutingstents
System,420withrespecttoRISPERDAL®,480withrespectto infringeseveralofCordis’sWright/Faloticopatents.Cordissought
pelvicmeshes,95withrespecttotheCYPHER®Stent,and60with monetaryrelief.InJanuary2010,inoneofthecasesagainstBoston
respecttoDURAGESIC®/fentanylpatches. Scientific,theUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrictof
InAugust2010,DePuyOrthopaedics,Inc.(DePuy)announced DelawarefoundtheWright/Faloticopatentsinvalidforlackofwrit-
aworldwidevoluntaryrecallofitsASR™XLAcetabularSystemand tendescriptionand/orlackofenablement.InJune2011,theCourtof
DePuyASR™HipResurfacingSystemusedinhipreplacementsur- AppealsfortheFederalCircuitaffirmedtheruling,andinSeptember
gery.ClaimsforpersonalinjuryhavebeenmadeagainstDePuyand 2011,itdeniedCordis’smotionforare-hearing.
Johnson&Johnson,andthenumberofpendinglawsuitscontinues InOctober2007,BruceSaffran(Saffran)filedapatentinfringe-
toincrease.TheCompanycontinuestoreceiveinformationwith mentlawsuitagainstJohnson&JohnsonandCordisintheUnited
respecttopotentialcostsassociatedwiththisrecall.Inthefourth StatesDistrictCourtfortheEasternDistrictofTexasalleging
quarterof2011,theCompanyincreaseditsaccrualsfortheDePuy infringementonU.S.PatentNo.5,653,760.InJanuary2011,ajury
ASR™Hiprecallprogramandrelatedproductliabilityafterthe returnedaverdictfindingthatCordis’ssalesofitsCYPHER®Stent
Companycompletedananalysisofnewinformation,includingthe willfullyinfringedapatentissuedtoSaffran.Thejuryawarded
numberofexpectedclaims,recentlyupdatedrevisionratesofthe Saffran$482million.InMarch2011,theCourtenteredjudgment
recalledproductsandproductliabilityexpensepercase.Changes againstCordisintheamountof$593million,representingthejury
totheseaccrualsmayberequiredinthefutureasadditional verdict,plus$111millioninpre-judgmentinterest.TheDistrict
informationbecomesavailable. CourthasdeniedCordis’smotiontooverturnthejuryverdictandto
TheCompanybelievesthattheultimateresolutionofthese vacatethejudgment.Cordishasappealedthejudgment.Because
mattersbasedonhistoricalandreasonablylikelyfuturetrendsisnot theCompanybelievesthatthepotentialforanunfavorableoutcome
expectedtohaveamaterialadverseeffectontheCompany’sfinan- isnotprobable,ithasnotestablishedanaccrualwithrespectto
cialposition,annualresultsofoperationsandcashflows.Theresolu- thecase.
tioninanyinterimreportingperiodcouldhaveamaterialimpacton InNovember2007,RocheDiagnosticsOperations,Inc.,etal.
theCompany’sresultsofoperationsandcashflowsforthatperiod. (Roche)filedapatentinfringementlawsuitagainstLifeScan,Inc.
(LifeScan)intheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrictof
INTELLECTUALPROPERTY Delaware,accusingLifeScan’sentireOneTouch®lineofblood
CertainofJohnson&Johnson’ssubsidiariesaresubject,fromtime glucosemonitoringsystemsofinfringementoftwopatentsrelated
totime,tolegalproceedingsandclaimsrelatedtopatent,trademark totheuseofmicroelectrodesensors.InSeptember2009,LifeScan
andotherintellectualpropertymattersarisingoutoftheirbusiness. obtainedafavorablerulingonclaimconstructionthatprecludeda
Themostsignificantofthesemattersaredescribedbelow. findingofinfringement.TheCourtenteredjudgmentagainstRoche
inJuly2010andRocheappealed.TheCourtofAppealsreversedthe
PATENTINFRINGEMENT DistrictCourt’srulingonclaimconstructionandremandedthecase
CertainofJohnson&Johnson’ssubsidiariesareinvolvedinlawsuits totheDistrictCourtfornewfindingsontheissue.Rocheisseeking
challengingthecoverageand/orvalidityofthepatentsontheir monetarydamagesandinjunctiverelief.
products.Althoughthesesubsidiariesbelievethattheyhavesub- StartinginFebruary2008,Cordisfiledpatentinfringement
stantialdefensestothesechallengeswithrespecttoallmaterial lawsuitsintheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrictofNew
patents,therecanbenoassuranceastotheoutcomeofthese JerseyagainstGuidant,Abbott,BostonScientificandMedtronic
matters,andalossinanyofthesecasescouldpotentiallyadversely allegingthattheXienceV™(Abbott),Promus™(BostonScientific)
affecttheabilityofthesesubsidiariestoselltheirproducts,or andEndeavor®(Medtronic)drugelutingstentsinfringeseveralof
requirethepaymentofpastdamagesandfutureroyalties. Wyeth’s(nowPfizerInc.)Morrispatents,whichhavebeenlicensed
toCordis.Cordissoughtmonetaryrelief.InJanuary2012,theDis-
MEDICALDEVICESANDDIAGNOSTICS trictCourtgrantedthedefendants’motiontoinvalidatetheMorris
InOctober2004,TycoHealthcareGroup,LP(Tyco)andU.S.Surgi- patentsforlackofenablementandfailuretoadequatelydescribe
calCorporationfiledalawsuitagainstEthiconEndo-Surgery,Inc.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 59thefullscopeoftheinvention.Cordiswillappealthisdecisiontothe inGermanyandtheNetherlands.ThecourtintheNetherlandsheld
CourtofAppealsfortheFederalCircuit. theDutchpatentinvalidandenteredjudgmentinfavorofJBI’sEuro-
InJune2009,RembrandtVisionTechnologies,L.P.(Rembrandt) peanaffiliate,JanssenBiologicsB.V.Bayerappealedthatjudgment
filedapatentinfringementlawsuitagainstJohnson&JohnsonVision intheNetherlands.Inaddition,inMarch2010,Janssen-CilagNV
Care,Inc.(JJVC)intheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheEastern filedarevocationactionintheHighCourtinLondonseekingto
DistrictofTexasallegingthatJJVC’smanufactureandsaleofits invalidateBayer’sUKpatentrelatingtohumananti-TNFantibodies.
ACUVUE®ADVANCE®andACUVUE®OASYS®HydrogelContact InMay2011,JBIsettledallofthesecasesandreceivedapaid-up,
LensesinfringetheirU.S.PatentNo.5,712,327(theChangpatent). royalty-freelicensetothefamilyofpatentsinsuit.
Rembrandtisseekingmonetaryrelief.Thecaseisscheduledfortrial
inApril2012. LITIGATIONAGAINSTFILERSOFABBREVIATEDNEWDRUG
InNovember2011,HowmedicaOsteonicsCorp.(Howmedica) APPLICATIONS(ANDAs)
andStrykerIrelandLtd.(Stryker)filedapatentinfringementlawsuit Thefollowingsummarizeslawsuitspendingagainstgenericcompa-
againstDePuyOrthopaedics,Inc.(DePuy)intheUnitedStatesDistrict niesthatfiledAbbreviatedNewDrugApplications(ANDAs)seek-
CourtfortheDistrictofNewJerseyalleginginfringementbyDePuy’s ingtomarketgenericformsofproductssoldbyvarioussubsidiaries
PINNACLE®AcetabularCupSystemandDURALOC®AcetabularCup ofJohnson&Johnsonpriortoexpirationoftheapplicablepatents
Systemofapatentrelatingtoadual-lockingmechanismfeatureinan coveringthoseproducts.TheseANDAstypicallyincludeallegations
acetabularcupsystem.HowmedicaandStrykerareseekingmonetary ofnon-infringement,invalidityandunenforceabilityofthese
damagesandinjunctiverelief.Notrialdatehasbeenset. patents.Intheeventthesesubsidiariesarenotsuccessfulinthese
actions,orthestatutory30-monthstaysexpirebeforetheUnited
PHARMACEUTICAL StatesDistrictCourtrulingsareobtained,thethird-partycompanies
InApril2007,Centocor,Inc.(Centocor)(nowJanssenBiotech,Inc. involvedwillhavetheability,uponapprovaloftheUnitedStates
(JBI))filedapatentinfringementlawsuitagainstAbbottLaborato- FoodandDrugAdministration(FDA),tointroducegenericversions
ries,Inc.(Abbott)intheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheEastern oftheproductsatissue,resultinginverysubstantialmarketshare
DistrictofTexasallegingthatAbbott’sHumira®anti-TNFalpha andrevenuelossesforthoseproducts.
productinfringesCentocor’sU.S.Patent7,070,775.InJune2009,a
juryreturnedaverdictfindingthepatentvalidandinfringed,and CONCERTA®
awardedJBIdamagesofapproximately$1.7billion.InFebruary2011, InJanuary2010,ALZACorporation(ALZA)andOrtho-McNeil-
theCourtofAppealsreversedtheJune2009decisionandthe JanssenPharmaceuticals,Inc.(OMJPI)(nowJanssenPharmaceuti-
judgmentoftheDistrictCourt,andinFebruary2012,theUnited cals,Inc.(JPI))filedapatentinfringementlawsuitintheUnited
StatesSupremeCourtdeclinedtoreviewthedecision. StatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrictofDelawareagainstKremers-
InMay2009,AbbottBiotechnologyLtd.(Abbott)fileda Urban,LLCandKUDCOIreland,Ltd.(collectively,KUDCO)in
patentinfringementlawsuitagainstCentocor(nowJBI)inthe responsetoKUDCO’sANDAseekingapprovaltomarketageneric
UnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrictofMassachusetts versionofCONCERTA®beforetheexpirationoftwoofALZAand
allegingthatSIMPONI®infringesAbbott’sU.S.PatentNos. JPI’spatentsrelatingtoCONCERTA®.KUDCOfiledcounterclaims
7,223,394and7,451,031(theSalfeldpatents).Abbottisseeking allegingnon-infringementandinvalidity.ALZAandJPIsubsequently
monetarydamagesandinjunctiverelief.Notrialdatehasbeenset. removedoneofthepatentsfromthelawsuit.InSeptember2011,the
ThepartieswillparticipateinanarbitrationinApril2012onthe partiesenteredintoasettlementagreementpursuanttowhich
issueofJBI’sdefensethatAbbottisequitablystoppedfrom KUDCOwasgrantedalicensetomarketitsgenericversionof
assertingthepatents. CONCERTA®startingonJuly1,2012,assumingKUDCOobtains
InAugust2009,AbbottGmbH&Co.(AbbottGmbH)and FDAapproval.
AbbottBioresearchCenterfiledapatentinfringementlawsuit InNovember2010,ALZAandOMJPI(nowJPI)filedapatent
againstCentocor(nowJBI)intheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfor infringementlawsuitintheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtforthe
theDistrictofMassachusettsallegingthatSTELARA®infringestwo DistrictofDelawareagainstImpaxLaboratories,Inc.(Impax),Teva
UnitedStatespatentsassignedtoAbbottGmbH.JBIfiledacom- PharmaceuticalsUSA,Inc.,andTevaPharmaceuticalIndustriesLtd.
plaintintheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrictofColumbia (collectively,Teva)inresponsetoImpaxandTeva’sfilingofamajor
foradeclaratoryjudgmentofnon-infringementandinvalidityof amendmenttoitsANDAseekingapprovaltomarketageneric
theAbbottGmbHpatents,aswellasaComplaintforReviewofa versionofCONCERTA®beforetheexpirationofALZAandJPI’s
PatentInterferenceDecisionthatgrantedpriorityofinventionon patentrelatingtoCONCERTA®.ImpaxandTevafiledcounterclaims
oneofthetwoassertedpatentstoAbbottGmbH.Thecaseshave allegingnon-infringementandinvalidity.InMay2011,ALZAand
beentransferredfromtheDistrictofColumbiatotheDistrictof JPIfiledasecondlawsuitagainstTevainresponsetoTeva’sfiling
Massachusetts.Notrialdatehasbeenset.AlsoinAugust2009, ofasecondmajoramendmenttoitsANDAseekingapprovalto
AbbottGmbHandAbbottLaboratoriesLimitedbroughtapatent marketadditionaldosagestrengthsofitsgenericCONCERTA®
infringementlawsuitinTheFederalCourtofCanadaallegingthat productbeforetheexpirationofALZAandJPI’spatentrelatingto
STELARA®infringesAbbottGmbH’sCanadianpatent.Notrialdate CONCERTA®.Ineachoftheabovecases,ALZAandJPIareseeking
hasbeensetintheCanadianCase.Ineachofthesecases,Abbott anOrderenjoiningthedefendantsfrommarketingitsgeneric
isseekingmonetarydamagesandinjunctiverelief. versionofCONCERTA®priortotheexpirationofALZAandJPI’s
InAugust2009,BayerHealthCareLLC(Bayer)filedapatent CONCERTA®patent.
infringementlawsuitagainstCentocorOrthoBiotechInc.(nowJBI)
inUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrictofMassachusetts ORTHOTRI-CYCLEN®LO
allegingthatthemanufactureandsalebyJBIofSIMPONI®infringes InOctober2008,OMJPI(nowJPI)andJohnson&JohnsonPharma-
aBayerpatentrelatingtohumananti-TNFantibodies.InJanuary ceuticalResearch&Development,L.L.C.(nowJanssenResearch&
2011,thecourtissuedjudgmentdismissingBayer’sinfringement Development,LLC(JRD))filedapatentinfringementlawsuitagainst
claims.Bayerappealedthisruling.Inaddition,inNovember2009, WatsonLaboratories,Inc.andWatsonPharmaceuticals,Inc.
BayerfiledalawsuitunderitsEuropeancounterparttothesepatents (collectively,Watson)intheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtforthe
60 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTDistrictofNewJerseyinresponsetoWatson’sANDAseeking InMarch2011,TibotecandG.D.Searlefiledapatentinfringe-
approvaltomarketagenericversionofJPI’sproductpriortothe mentlawsuitagainstTevaPharmaceuticalsUSA,Inc.andTeva
expirationofJPI’spatentrelatingtoORTHOTRI-CYCLEN®LO(the Pharmaceuticals,Ltd.(collectively,Teva)intheUnitedStates
OTCLOpatent).Watsonfiledacounterclaimalleginginvalidityof DistrictCourtfortheDistrictofNewJerseyinresponsetoTeva’s
thepatent.Inaddition,inJanuary2010,JPIfiledapatentinfringe- ANDAseekingapprovaltomarketagenericversionofPREZISTA®
mentlawsuitagainstLupinLtd.andLupinPharmaceuticals,Inc. beforetheexpirationofcertainpatentsrelatingtoPREZISTA®that
(collectively,Lupin)intheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtforthe TiboteceitherownsorexclusivelylicensesfromG.D.Searle.
DistrictofNewJerseyinresponsetoLupin’sANDAseeking InMarch2011,Tibotecfiledapatentinfringementlawsuit
approvaltomarketagenericversionofORTHOTRI-CYCLEN®LO againstHeteroDrugs,Ltd.UnitIIIandHeteroUSAInc.(collectively,
priortotheexpirationoftheOTCLOpatent.Lupinfiledacounter- Hetero)intheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrictofNew
claimalleginginvalidityofthepatent.TheLupinandWatsoncases JerseyinresponsetoHetero’sANDAseekingapprovaltomarketa
havebeenconsolidated.InFebruary2012,JPIandWatsonentered genericversionofPREZISTA®beforetheexpirationofcertain
intoasettlementagreement.Pursuanttothesettlementagreement, patentsrelatingtoPREZISTA®thatTibotecexclusivelylicensesfrom
thepartiesenteredintoasupplyagreementwherebyJPIwillsupply G.D.Searle.InJuly2011,uponagreementbytheparties,theCourt
toWatsonacombinationaloralcontraceptivecontainingcertain enteredastayofthelawsuitpendingafinaldecisioninthelawsuit
specifiedcompoundsfromDecember31,2015(orearlierunder againstTevawithrespecttothevalidityand/orenforceabilityofthe
certaincircumstances)throughtheexpirationofthe‘815patenton patentsthatTiboteclicensesfromG.D.Searle,withHeteroagreeing
December6,2019.Inaddition,intheeventWatsondoesnotwishto tobeboundbysuchfinaldecision.
exerciseitsrightsunderthesupplyagreement,JPIhasgrantedWat- InSeptember2011,theCourtconsolidatedtheabovelawsuits,
sonalicensetomarketWatson’sANDAproductfromDecember31, aswellaslawsuitsbroughtbytheUnitedStatesGovernment
2015(orearlierundercertaincircumstances)throughDecember6, againsteachofthedefendantsforinfringementofaUnitedStates
2019.AtrialdatefortheLupincasehasbeensetforMarch2012. Government-ownedpatentrelatingtoPREZISTA®,forpurposesof
InNovember2010,OMJPI(nowJPI)filedapatentinfringe- pre-trialdiscoveryandtrial,withtheprovisothatafterdiscoveryis
mentlawsuitagainstMylanInc.andMylanPharmaceuticals,Inc. completed,anypartycanmovetohavethecasesde-consolidated
(collectively,Mylan),andFamyCare,Ltd.(FamyCare)intheUnited fortrial.
StatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrictofNewJerseyinresponseto Ineachoftheabovelawsuits,TibotecisseekinganOrder
FamyCare’sANDAseekingapprovaltomarketagenericversionof enjoiningthedefendantsfrommarketingtheirgenericversionsof
ORTHOTRI-CYCLEN®LOpriortotheexpirationoftheOTCLO PREZISTA®beforetheexpirationoftherelevantpatents.
patent.MylanandFamyCarefiledcounterclaimsalleginginvalidity
ofthepatent. OTHERINTELLECTUALPROPERTYMATTERS
InOctober2011,JPIfiledapatentinfringementlawsuitagainst InSeptember2009,CentocorOrthoBiotechProducts,L.P.(now
SunPharmaGlobalFZEandSunPharmaceuticalIndustries(collec- JanssenProducts,LP(JPLP))intervenedinaninventorshiplawsuit
tively,Sun)intheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrictof filedbytheUniversityofKansasCenterforResearch,Inc.(KUCR)
NewJerseyinresponsetoSun’sANDAseekingapprovaltomarketa againsttheUnitedStatesofAmerica(USA)intheUnitedStates
genericversionofORTHOTRI-CYCLEN®LOpriortotheexpiration DistrictCourtfortheDistrictofKansas.KUCRallegesthattwo
oftheOTCLOpatent. KUCRscientistsshouldbeaddedasinventorsontwoUSA-owned
Ineachoftheabovecases,JRDand/orJPIareseekingan patentsrelatingtoVELCADE®.TheUSAlicensedthepatents(and
Orderenjoiningthedefendantsfrommarketingtheirgeneric theirforeigncounterparts)toMillenniumPharmaceuticals,Inc.
versionsofORTHOTRI-CYCLEN®LObeforetheexpirationofthe (MPI),whointurnsublicensedthepatents(andtheirforeign
OTCLOpatent. counterparts)toJPLPforcommercialmarketingoutsidetheUnited
States.InJuly2010,thepartiesreachedasettlementagreementto
PREZISTA® resolvethedisputesinthiscaseandwillsubmittheinventorship
InNovember2010,Tibotec,Inc.(nowTibotec,LLC)andTibotec issuetoarbitration.Thecasehasbeenstayedpendingthearbitra-
Pharmaceuticals,Inc.(collectively,Tibotec)filedapatentinfringe- tion.Asaresultofthesettlementagreement,theoutcomeof
mentlawsuitagainstLupin,Ltd.,LupinPharmaceuticals,Inc. thearbitrationregardinginventorshipwilldeterminewhetherpre-
(collectively,Lupin),Mylan,Inc.andMylanPharmaceuticals,Inc. specifiedpaymentswillbemadetoKUCR,butwillnotaffectJPLP’s
(collectively,Mylan)intheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheDis- righttomarketVELCADE®.ThearbitrationtookplaceinDecember
trictofNewJerseyinresponsetoLupin’sandMylan’srespective 2011andadecisionisexpectedinApril2012.
ANDAsseekingapprovaltomarketgenericversionsofTibotec’s InDecember2009,theStateofIsraelfiledalawsuitintheDis-
PREZISTA®productbeforetheexpirationofTibotec’spatentrelat- trictCourtinTelAvivJaffaagainstOmrixBiopharmaceuticals,Inc.
ingtoPREZISTA®.LupinandMylaneachfiledcounterclaimsalleging andvariousaffiliates(Omrix).Inthelawsuit,theStateclaimsthat
non-infringementandinvalidity.InJuly2011,Tibotecfiledanother anemployeeofagovernment-ownedhospitalwastheinventoron
patentinfringementlawsuitagainstLupinintheUnitedStatesDis- severalpatentsrelatedtofibringluetechnologythattheemployee
trictCourtfortheDistrictofNewJerseyinresponsetoLupin’ssup- developedwhilehewasagovernmentemployee.TheStateclaims
plementtoitsANDAtoaddnewdosagestrengthsforitsproposed thathehadnorighttotransferanyintellectualpropertytoOmrix
product.InAugust2011,TibotecandG.D.Searle&Company(G.D. becauseitbelongstotheState.TheStateisseekingdamagesplus
Searle)filedapatentinfringementlawsuitagainstLupinandMylan royaltiesonQUIXIL™andEVICEL™products,oralternatively,
inresponsetotheirnoticelettersadvisingthattheirANDAsare transferofthepatentstotheState.
seekingapprovaltomarketgenericversionsofTibotec’sPREZISTA®
productbeforetheexpirationoftwopatentsrelatingtoPREZISTA®
thatTibotecexclusivelylicensesfromG.D.Searle.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 61InJanuary2011,Genentech,Inc.(Genentech)initiatedan RISPERDAL®
arbitrationagainstUCBCelltech(Celltech)seekingdamagesfor InJanuary2004,JanssenPharmaceuticaInc.(Janssen)(now
allegedlycooperatingwithCentocor(nowJBI)toimproperly JanssenPharmaceuticals,Inc.(JPI))receivedasubpoenafromthe
terminateaprioragreementinwhichJBIwassublicensedunder OfficeoftheInspectorGeneraloftheUnitedStatesOfficeofPer-
Genentech’sCabillypatents.JBIhasanindemnityagreementwith sonnelManagementseekingdocumentsconcerningsalesandmar-
Celltech,andCelltechhasassertedthatJBIisliableforanydamages ketingof,anyandallpaymentstophysiciansinconnectionwith
CelltechmayberequiredtopayGenentechinthatarbitration.Trial salesandmarketingof,andclinicaltrialsfor,RISPERDAL®from1997
isscheduledforJune2012. to2002.Documentssubsequentto2002havealsobeenrequested
bytheDepartmentofJustice.Anadditionalsubpoenaseekinginfor-
GOVERNMENTPROCEEDINGS mationaboutmarketingof,andadversereactionsto,RISPERDAL®
Likeothercompaniesinthepharmaceuticalandmedicaldevices wasreceivedfromtheUnitedStatesAttorney’sOfficefortheEast-
anddiagnosticsindustries,Johnson&Johnsonandcertainofits ernDistrictofPennsylvaniainNovember2005.Numeroussubpoe-
subsidiariesaresubjecttoextensiveregulationbynational,state nasseekingtestimonyfromvariouswitnessesbeforeagrandjury
andlocalgovernmentagenciesintheUnitedStatesandothercoun- werealsoreceived.JPIcooperatedinrespondingtotheserequests
triesinwhichtheyoperate.Asaresult,interactionwithgovernment fordocumentsandwitnesses.TheUnitedStatesDepartmentof
agenciesisongoing.Themostsignificantlitigationbroughtby,and JusticeandtheUnitedStatesAttorney’sOfficefortheEasternDis-
investigationsconductedby,governmentagenciesarelistedbelow. trictofPennsylvania(theGovernment)arecontinuingtoactively
Itispossiblethatcriminalchargesandsubstantialfinesand/orcivil pursuebothcriminalandcivilactions.InFebruary2010,theGovern-
penaltiesordamagescouldresultfromgovernmentinvestigations mentservedCivilInvestigativeDemandsseekingadditionalinfor-
orlitigation. mationrelatingtosalesandmarketingofRISPERDAL®andsales
andmarketingofINVEGA®.Thefocusofthesemattersisthe
AVERAGEWHOLESALEPRICE(AWP)LITIGATION allegedpromotionofRISPERDAL®andINVEGA®foroff-labeluses.
Johnson&Johnsonandseveralofitspharmaceuticalsubsidiaries TheGovernmenthasnotifiedJPIthattherearealsopendingquitam
(theJ&JAWPDefendants),alongwithnumerousotherpharmaceu- actionsallegingoff-labelpromotionofRISPERDAL®.TheGovern-
ticalcompanies,aredefendantsinaseriesoflawsuitsinstateand mentinformedJPIthatitwillinterveneinthesequitamactionsand
federalcourtsinvolvingallegationsthatthepricingandmarketing fileasupersedingcomplaint.
ofcertainpharmaceuticalproductsamountedtofraudulentand Discussionshavebeenongoinginanefforttoresolvecriminal
otherwiseactionableconductbecause,amongotherthings,the penaltiesundertheFoodDrugandCosmeticActrelatedtothe
companiesallegedlyreportedaninflatedAverageWholesalePrice promotionofRISPERDAL®.Anagreementinprincipleonkeyissues
(AWP)forthedrugsatissue.Payorsallegedthattheyusedthose relevanttoadispositionofcriminalchargespursuanttoasingle
AWPsincalculatingproviderreimbursementlevels.Manyofthese misdemeanorviolationoftheFoodDrugandCosmeticActhasbeen
cases,bothfederalactionsandstateactionsremovedtofederal reached,butcertainissuesremainopenbeforeasettlementcanbe
court,wereconsolidatedforpre-trialpurposesinaMulti-District finalized.During2011,theCompanyaccruedamountstocoverthe
Litigation(MDL)intheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrict financialcomponentoftheproposedcriminalsettlement.
ofMassachusetts. Inaddition,discussionswithstateandfederalgovernment
Theplaintiffsinthesecasesincludedthreeclassesofprivate representativestoresolvetheseparatecivilclaimsrelatedtothe
personsorentitiesthatpaidforanyportionofthepurchaseofthe marketingofRISPERDAL®andINVEGA®,includingthoseunderthe
drugsatissuebasedonAWP,andstategovernmententitiesthat FalseClaimsAct(thequitamactions),arestillongoing.Although
madeMedicaidpaymentsforthedrugsatissuebasedonAWP.In itstillremainsunclearwhetherasettlementcanbereachedwith
June2007,afteratrialonthemerits,theMDLCourtdismissedthe respecttothefederalandstatecivilclaims,therehasbeenasub-
claimsoftwooftheplaintiffclassesagainsttheJ&JAWPDefen- stantialnarrowingoftheissuesandpotentialliability,andin2011,the
dants.InMarch2011,theCourtdismissedtheclaimsofthethird Companyestablishedanaccrualtocovertheestimatedfinancial
classagainsttheJ&JAWPDefendantswithoutprejudice. componentofthepotentialfederalcivilsettlement.Ifanegotiated
AWPcasesbroughtbyvariousAttorneysGeneralhavepro- resolutioncannotbereached,civillitigationrelatingtotheallegations
ceededtotrialagainstothermanufacturers.Severalstatecases ofoff-labelpromotionofRISPERDAL®and/orINVEGA®islikely.
againstcertainofJohnson&Johnson’ssubsidiarieshavebeenset- TheAttorneysGeneralofmultiplestates,includingAlaska,
tled,includingKentucky,whichhadbeensetfortrialinJanuary Arkansas,Louisiana,Massachusetts,Mississippi,Montana,New
2012.KansasissetfortrialinMarch2013,andotherstatecasesare Mexico,Pennsylvania,SouthCarolina,TexasandUtah,havepending
likelytobesetfortrial.Inaddition,anAWPcaseagainsttheJ&J actionsagainstJanssen(nowJPI)seekingoneormoreofthefollow-
AWPDefendantsbroughtbytheCommonwealthofPennsylvania ingremedies:reimbursementofMedicaidorotherpublicfundsfor
wastriedinCommonwealthCourtinOctoberandNovember2010. RISPERDAL®prescriptionswrittenforoff-labeluse,compensation
TheCourtfoundintheCommonwealth’sfavorwithregardtocertain fortreatingtheircitizensforallegedadversereactionsto
ofitsclaimsunderthePennsylvaniaUnfairTradePracticesandCon- RISPERDAL®,civilfinesorpenalties,damagesfor“overpayments”
sumerProtectionLaw(“UTPL”),enteredaninjunction,andawarded bythestateandothers,violationsofstateconsumerfraudstatutes,
$45millioninrestitutionand$6.5millionincivilpenalties.The punitivedamages,orotherreliefrelatingtoallegedunfairbusiness
CourtfoundintheJ&JAWPDefendants’favorontheCommon- practices.Certainoftheseactionsalsoseekinjunctivereliefrelating
wealth’sclaimsofunjustenrichment,misrepresentation/fraud,civil tothepromotionofRISPERDAL®.InJanuary2012,JPIagreedto
conspiracy,andoncertainoftheCommonwealth’sclaimsunderthe settlealawsuitfiledbytheAttorneyGeneralofTexas.Trialinthe
UTPL.TheJ&JAWPDefendantshaveappealedtheCommonwealth lawsuitbroughtbytheAttorneyGeneralofArkansasisscheduled
Court’sUTPLrulingtothePennsylvaniaSupremeCourt.The tocommenceinMarch2012;JPIhasfiledmotionsforsummary
CompanybelievesthattheJ&JAWPDefendantshavestrongargu- judgmentintheArkansasmatter.
mentssupportingtheirappeal.BecausetheCompanybelievesthat TheAttorneyGeneralofWestVirginiacommencedsuitin
thepotentialforanunfavorableoutcomeisnotprobable,ithasnot 2004againstJanssen(nowJPI)basedonclaimsofallegedcon-
establishedanaccrualwithrespecttotheverdict. sumerfraudastoDURAGESIC®,aswellasRISPERDAL®.JPIwas
62 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTfoundliableanddamageswereassessedat$4.5million.JPIfiledan MCNEILCONSUMERHEALTHCARE
appeal,andinNovember2010,theWestVirginiaSupremeCourt StartinginJune2010,McNeilConsumerHealthcareDivisionof
reversedthetrialcourt’sdecision.InDecember2010,theAttorney McNEIL-PPC,Inc.(McNeilConsumerHealthcare)andcertainaffili-
GeneralofWestVirginiadismissedthecaseasitrelatedto ates,includingJohnson&Johnson(theCompanies),receivedgrand
RISPERDAL®withoutanypayment.Thereafter,JPIsettledthecase jurysubpoenasfromtheUnitedStatesAttorney’sOfficefortheEast-
insofarasitrelatedtoDURAGESIC®. ernDistrictofPennsylvaniarequestingdocumentsbroadlyrelatingto
In2004,theAttorneyGeneralofLouisianafiledamulti-count recentrecallsofvariousproductsofMcNeilConsumerHealthcare,
ComplaintagainstJanssen(nowJPI).Johnson&Johnsonwaslater andtheFDAinspectionsoftheFortWashington,Pennsylvaniaand
addedasadefendant.ThecasewastriedinOctober2010.The Lancaster,Pennsylvaniamanufacturingfacilities,aswellascertain
issuetriedtothejurywaswhetherJohnson&JohnsonorJPIhad documentsrelatingtorecentrecallsofasmallnumberofproducts
violatedtheState’sMedicaidFraudAct(theAct)throughmisrepre- ofothersubsidiaries.Inaddition,inFebruary2011,thegovernment
sentationsallegedlymadeinthemailingofaNovember2003Dear servedMcNEIL-PPC,Inc.(McNEIL-PPC)withaCivilInvestigative
HealthCareProfessionalletterregardingRISPERDAL®.Thejury Demandseekingrecordsrelevanttoitsinvestigationtodetermineif
returnedaverdictthatJPIandJohnson&Johnsonhadviolatedthe therewasaviolationoftheFederalFalseClaimsAct.TheCompanies
Actandawarded$257.7millionindamages.Thetrialjudgesubse- arecooperatingwiththeUnitedStatesAttorney’sOfficeinrespond-
quentlyawardedtheAttorneyGeneralcounselfeesandexpensesin ingtothesesubpoenas.
theamountof$73million.Johnson&Johnson’sandJPI’smotionfor TheCompanieshavealsoreceivedCivilInvestigativeDemands
anewtrialwasdenied.Johnson&JohnsonandJPIhavefiledan frommultipleStateAttorneysGeneralOfficesbroadlyrelatingto
appealandbelievethattheyhavestrongargumentssupportingthe theMcNeilrecallissues.TheCompaniescontinuetocooperatewith
appeal.TheCompanybelievesthatthepotentialforanunfavorable theseinquiries.InJanuary2011,theOregonAttorneyGeneralfileda
outcomeisnotprobable,andtherefore,theCompanyhasnot civilcomplaintagainstJohnson&Johnson,McNEIL-PPCand
establishedanaccrualwithrespecttotheverdict. McNeilHealthcareLLCinstatecourtallegingcivilviolationsofthe
In2007,theOfficeofGeneralCounseloftheCommonwealth OregonUnlawfulTradePracticesActrelatingtoanearlierrecallofa
ofPennsylvaniafiledalawsuitagainstJanssen(nowJPI)onamulti- McNeilOTCproduct.Afteraremovaltofederalcourt,thecasewas
CountComplaintrelatedtoJanssen’ssaleofRISPERDAL®tothe remandedbacktostatecourtinOregon.TheCompaniesfileda
Commonwealth’sMedicaidprogram.ThetrialoccurredinJune motiontodismissinFebruary2012.
2010.Thetrialjudgedismissedthecaseafterthecloseofthe InMarch2011,theUnitedStatesfiledacomplaintforinjunctive
plaintiff’sevidence.TheCommonwealth’spost-trialmotionswere reliefintheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheEasternDistrictof
denied.TheCommonwealthfiledanappealinApril2011.Theoral PennsylvaniaagainstMcNEIL-PPCandtwoofitsemployees,alleg-
argumentisscheduledtotakeplaceinMay2012. ingthatMcNEIL-PPCisinviolationofFDAregulationsregardingthe
In2007,theAttorneyGeneralofSouthCarolinafiledalawsuit manufactureofdrugsatthefacilitiesitoperatesinLancaster,Penn-
againstJohnson&JohnsonandJanssen(nowJPI)onseveralcounts. sylvania,FortWashington,Pennsylvania,andLasPiedras,Puerto
InMarch2011,thematterwastriedonliabilityonly,atwhichtime Rico.Onthesameday,thepartiesfiledaconsentdecreeofperma-
thelawsuitwaslimitedtoclaimsofviolationoftheSouthCarolina nentinjunctionresolvingtheclaimssetforthinthecomplaint.The
UnfairTradePracticeAct,including,amongothers,questionsof CourtapprovedandenteredtheconsentdecreeonMarch16,2011.
whetherJohnson&JohnsonorJPIengagedinunfairordeceptive Theconsentdecree,whichissubjecttoongoingenforcement
actsorpracticesintheconductofanytradeorcommerceby bythecourt,requiresMcNEIL-PPCtotakeenhancedmeasuresto
distributingtheNovember2003DearHealthCareProfessional remediatethethreefacilities.TheFortWashingtonfacility,which
letterregardingRISPERDAL®orintheiruseoftheproduct’s wasvoluntarilyshutdowninApril2010,willremainshutdownuntil
FDA-approvedlabel.ThejuryfoundinfavorofJohnson&Johnson athird-partyconsultantcertifiesthatitsoperationswillbeincom-
andagainstJPI.InJune2011,theCourtawardedcivilpenaltiesof pliancewithapplicablelaw,andtheFDAconcurswiththethird-
approximately$327.1million.JPIhasappealedthisjudgment.The partycertification.TheLancasterandLasPiedrasfacilitiesmay
CompanybelievesthatJPIhasstrongargumentssupportingan continuetomanufactureanddistributedrugs,providedthatathird
appealandthatthepotentialforanunfavorableoutcomeisnot partyreviewsmanufacturingrecordsforselectedbatchesofdrugs
probable.Therefore,theCompanyhasnotestablishedanaccrual releasedfromthefacilities,andcertifiesthatanydeviations
withrespecttotheverdict. revieweddonotadverselyaffectthequalityoftheselectedbatches.
TheAttorneysGeneralofapproximately40otherstateshave McNEIL-PPChassubmittedaworkplantotheFDAforremediation
indicatedapotentialinterestinpursuingsimilarlitigationagainst oftheLancasterandLasPiedrasfacilities;thatplanissubjectto
JPI,andhaveobtainedatollingagreementstayingtherunningofthe FDAapproval.Third-partybatchrecordreviewmayceaseiftheFDA
statuteoflimitationswhiletheypursueacoordinatedcivilinvesti- hasstatedthatthefacilitiesappeartobeincompliancewithappli-
gationofJPIregardingpotentialconsumerfraudactionsinconnec- cablelaw.Eachfacilityissubjecttoafive-yearauditperiodbya
tionwiththemarketingofRISPERDAL®. thirdpartyafterthefacilityhasbeendeemedbytheFDAtobein
In2011,theCompanyestablishedanaccrualwithrespectto apparentcompliancewithapplicablelaw.
theabovestatematters.
IntheCompany’sopinion,theultimateresolutionofanyof
theaboveRISPERDAL®mattersisnotexpectedtohaveamaterial
adverseeffectontheCompany’sfinancialposition,althoughthe
resolutioninanyreportingperiodcouldhaveamaterialimpacton
theCompany’sresultsofoperationsandcashflowsforthatperiod.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 63OMNICARE OTHER
InSeptember2005,Johnson&Johnsonreceivedasubpoenafrom InJuly2005,SciosInc.(Scios)receivedasubpoenafromtheUnited
theUnitedStatesAttorney’sOfficefortheDistrictofMassachusetts, StatesAttorney’sOfficefortheDistrictofMassachusetts,seeking
seekingdocumentsrelatedtothesalesandmarketingofeightdrugs documentsrelatedtothesalesandmarketingofNATRECOR®.
toOmnicare,Inc.(Omnicare),amanagerofpharmaceuticalbene- InAugust2005,Scioswasadvisedthattheinvestigationwouldbe
fitsforlong-termcarefacilities.InApril2009,Johnson&Johnson handledbytheUnitedStatesAttorney’sOfficefortheNorthern
andcertainofitspharmaceuticalsubsidiarieswereservedintwo DistrictofCaliforniainSanFrancisco.InFebruary2009,twoquitam
civilquitamcasesassertingclaimsundertheFederalFalseClaims complaintswereunsealedintheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfor
Actandrelatedstatelawclaimsallegingthatthedefendantspro- theNorthernDistrictofCalifornia,alleging,amongotherthings,
videdOmnicarewithrebatesandotherallegedkickbacks,causing improperactivitiesinthepromotionofNATRECOR®.InJune2009,
OmnicaretofilefalseclaimswithMedicaidandothergovernment theUnitedStatesgovernmentintervenedinoneofthequitam
programs.InJanuary2010,thegovernmentintervenedinbothof actions,andfiledacomplaintagainstSciosandJohnson&Johnson
thesecases,namingJohnson&Johnson,Ortho-McNeil-Janssen seekingreliefundertheFederalFalseClaimsActandassertinga
Pharmaceuticals,Inc.(nowJanssenPharmaceuticals,Inc.(JPI)), claimofunjustenrichment.Thecivilcaseisproceedinganddiscovery
andJohnson&JohnsonHealthCareSystemsInc.asdefendants. isongoing.InOctober2011,theCourtapprovedasettlementofthe
Subsequently,theCommonwealthofMassachusetts,Virginia,and criminalcaseinwhichSciospledguiltytoasinglemisdemeanorvio-
Kentucky,andtheStatesofCaliforniaandIndianaintervenedinthe lationoftheFood,Drug&CosmeticActandpaidafineof$85million.
action.Thedefendantsmovedtodismissthecomplaints,andin InFebruary2007,Johnson&Johnsonvoluntarilydisclosedto
February2011,theUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrictof theUnitedStatesDepartmentofJustice(DOJ)andtheUnited
Massachusettsdismissedonequitamcaseentirelyanddismissed StatesSecurities&ExchangeCommission(SEC)thatsubsidiaries
theothercaseinpart,rejectingallegationsthatthedefendantshad outsidetheUnitedStatesarebelievedtohavemadeimproperpay-
violatedtheirobligationtoreportits“bestprice”tohealthcarepro- mentsinconnectionwiththesaleofmedicaldevicesintwosmall-
gramofficials.ThedefendantssubsequentlymovedtheCourtto marketcountries,whichpaymentsmayfallwithinthejurisdiction
reconsideritsdecisionnottodismissthesecondcaseinitsentirety, oftheForeignCorruptPracticesAct(FCPA).Inthecourseof
whichtheCourtdeniedinMay2011.TheclaimsoftheUnitedStates continuingdialogueswiththeagencies,otherissuespotentially
andindividualstatesremainpending. risingtothelevelofFCPAviolationsinadditionalmarketswere
InNovember2005,alawsuitwasfiledundersealbyScott broughttotheattentionoftheagenciesbyJohnson&Johnson.In
Bartz,aformeremployee,intheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtforthe addition,inFebruary2006,Johnson&Johnsonreceivedasubpoena
EasternDistrictofPennsylvaniaagainstJohnson&Johnsonandcer- fromtheSECrequestingdocumentsrelatingtotheparticipation
tainofitspharmaceuticalsubsidiaries(theJ&JDefendants),along byseveralofitssubsidiariesintheUnitedNationsIraqOilforFood
withco-defendantsMcKessonCorporation(McKesson)andOmni- Program.InApril2011,Johnson&JohnsonresolvedtheFCPA
care,Inc.TheBartzcomplaintraisesmanyissuesincommonwith andOilforFoodmattersthroughsettlementswiththeDOJ,SEC
theOmnicare-relatedlitigationdiscussedabovealreadypending andUnitedKingdomSeriousFraudOffice.Thesesettlements
beforetheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrictofMassachu- requiredpaymentsofapproximately$78millioninfinancialpenal-
setts,suchasbestpriceandanumberofkickbackallegations.After ties.AspartofthesettlementwiththeDOJ,Johnson&Johnson
investigation,theUnitedStatesdeclinedtointervene.Thecasewas enteredintoaDeferredProsecutionAgreementthatrequires
subsequentlyunsealedinJanuary2011.InFebruary2011,theplain- Johnson&Johnsontocompleteathree-yeartermofenhanced
tifffiledanamendedcomplaint,whichwasplacedunderseal. compliancepractices.
Thereafter,ontheJ&JDefendants’motion,thecasewastransferred InJune2008,Johnson&Johnsonreceivedasubpoenafrom
totheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrictofMassachusetts, theUnitedStatesAttorney’sOfficefortheDistrictofMassachu-
whereitiscurrentlypending.InApril2011,theamendedcomplaint settsrelatingtothemarketingofbiliarystentsbyCordisCorpora-
wasorderedunsealedandallegesavarietyofcausesofactionunder tion(Cordis).Cordisiscurrentlycooperatinginrespondingtothe
theFederalFalseClaimsActandcorrespondingstateandlocal subpoena.Inaddition,inJanuary2010,acomplaintwasunsealedin
statutes,includingthattheJ&JDefendantsengagedinvarious theUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheNorthernDistrictofTexas
impropertransactionsthatwereallegedlydesignedtoreportfalse seekingdamagesagainstCordisforallegedviolationsoftheFederal
prescriptiondrugpricestothefederalgovernmentinorderto FalseClaimsActandseveralsimilarstatelawsinconnectionwith
reducetheJ&JDefendants’Medicaidrebateobligations.Thecom- themarketingofbiliarystents.TheUnitedStatesDepartmentof
plaintfurtherallegesthattheJ&JDefendantsimproperlyretaliated Justiceandseveralstateshavedeclinedtointerveneatthistime.In
againsttheplaintiffforhavingraisedtheseallegationsinternally. April2011,theUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheNorthernDistrict
Bartzseeksmultipleformsofrelief,includingdamagesandrein- ofTexasdismissedthecomplaintwithoutprejudice.
statementtoapositionwiththesamesenioritystatus. InOctober2011,theEuropeanCommissionannouncedthat
TheJ&JDefendantssubsequentlymovedtodismissthecom- itopenedaninvestigationconcerninganagreementbetween
plaintinMay2011,andoralargumentwasheldinAugust2011.In Janssen-CilagB.V.andSandozB.V.relatingtothesupplyoffentanyl
June2011,Bartzfiledanoticeofintenttovoluntarilydismiss patchesinTheNetherlands.Theinvestigationseekstodetermine
McKessonandOmnicarefromthecaseandaddedMcKesson whethertheagreementinfringesEuropeancompetitionlaw.
SpecialtyPharmaceuticals,LLC,asaco-defendant.Thepartiesare InrecentyearsJohnson&Johnsonhasreceivednumerous
awaitingarulingonthemotiontodismiss. requestsfromavarietyofUnitedStatesCongressionalCommittees
toproduceinformationrelevanttoongoingcongressionalinquiries.
ItisJohnson&Johnson’spolicytocooperatewiththeseinquiriesby
producingtherequestedinformation.
64 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTGENERALLITIGATION Merck&Co.,Inc.(Merck)andSchering-Ploughconstituteda
InSeptember2004,Plaintiffsinanemploymentdiscriminationliti- changeofcontrolunderthetermsoftheDistributionAgreements
gationinitiatedagainstJohnson&Johnsonin2001intheUnited thatpermittedJBItoterminatetheAgreements.InApril2011,
StatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrictofNewJerseymovedtocertify Johnson&Johnson,JBIandMerckannouncedanagreementto
aclassofallAfricanAmericanandHispanicsalariedemployeesof amendtheDistributionAgreements.Thisagreementconcluded
Johnson&JohnsonanditsaffiliatesintheUnitedStates,whowere thearbitrationproceeding.
employedatanytimefromNovember1997tothepresent.Plaintiffs PursuanttothetermsoftheamendedDistributionAgree-
soughtmonetarydamagesfortheperiod1997throughthepresent ments,onJuly1,2011,Merck’ssubsidiary,Schering-Plough(Ireland)
(includingpunitivedamages)andequitablerelief.TheCourtdenied relinquishedexclusivemarketingrightsforREMICADE®and
Plaintiffs’classcertificationmotioninDecember2006andtheir SIMPONI®toJohnson&Johnson’sJanssenpharmaceuticalcompa-
motionforreconsiderationinApril2007.Plaintiffssoughttoappeal niesinterritoriesincludingCanada,CentralandSouthAmerica,the
thesedecisions,andinApril2008,theCourtofAppealsruledthat MiddleEast,AfricaandAsiaPacific(relinquishedterritories).Merck
Plaintiffs’appealofthedenialofclasscertificationwasuntimely.In retainedexclusivemarketingrightsthroughoutEurope,Russiaand
July2009,Plaintiffsfiledamotionforcertificationofamodified Turkey(retainedterritories).Theretainedterritoriesrepresent
class,whichJohnson&Johnsonopposed.TheDistrictCourtdenied approximately70percentofMerck’s2010revenueofapproxi-
Plaintiffs’motioninJuly2010,andtheCourtofAppealsdenied mately$2.8billionfromREMICADE®andSIMPONI®,whilethe
Plaintiffs’requestforleavetoappealthedenialofcertificationofthe relinquishedterritoriesrepresentapproximately30percent.In
modifiedclass.InMay2011,thecasewasdismissedwithprejudice. addition,asofJuly1,2011,allprofitderivedfromMerck’sexclusive
StartinginJuly2006,fivelawsuitswerefiledinUnitedStates distributionofthetwoproductsintheretainedterritoriesisbeing
DistrictCourtfortheDistrictofNewJerseybyvariousemployers equallydividedbetweenMerckandJBI.Underthepriortermsofthe
andemployeebenefitplansandfundsseekingtorecoveramounts DistributionAgreements,thecontributionincome(profit)split,
theypaidforRISPERDAL®forplanparticipants.Ingeneral,Plaintiffs whichwasat58percenttoMerckand42percenttoJBI,wouldhave
allegethatJohnson&Johnsonandcertainofitspharmaceutical declinedforMerckandincreasedforJBIeachyearuntil2014,when
subsidiariesengagedinoff-labelmarketingofRISPERDAL®in itwouldhavebeenequallydivided.JBIalsoreceivedaone-time
violationofthefederalandNewJerseyRICOstatutes.Inaddition, paymentof$500millioninApril2011,whichisbeingamortized
Plaintiffsassertedvariousstatelawclaims.Allofthecaseswere overtheperiodoftheagreement.
consolidatedintoonecaseseekingclassactionstatus,butshortly InApril2010,aputativeclassactionlawsuitwasfiledinthe
thereafter,oneactionwasvoluntarilydismissed.InDecember UnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheNorthernDistrictofCalifornia
2008,theCourtdismissedtheactionsofthefourremainingplain- byrepresentativesofnursinghomeresidentsortheirestates
tiffs.InApril2010,thoseplaintiffsfiledanewconsolidatedclass againstJohnson&Johnson,Omnicare,Inc.(Omnicare),andother
actionagainstJohnson&JohnsonandJanssen,L.P.(nowJanssen unidentifiedcompaniesorindividuals.InFebruary2011,Plaintiffs
Pharmaceuticals,Inc.(JPI));andinMarch2011,thatactionwasdis- filedasecondamendedcomplaintassertingthatcertainrebate
missed.InApril2011,oneofthoseplaintiffsfiledanoticeofappeal agreementsbetweenJohnson&JohnsonandOmnicareincreased
withtheUnitedStatesCourtofAppealsfortheThirdCircuit.That theamountofmoneyspentonpharmaceuticalsbythenursing
appealwasdismissedinJuly2011. homeresidentsandviolatedtheShermanActandtheCalifornia
InApril2009,Ortho-ClinicalDiagnostics,Inc.(OCD)received Business&ProfessionsCode.Thesecondamendedcomplaintalso
agrandjurysubpoenafromtheUnitedStatesDepartmentof assertedaclaimofunjustenrichment.Plaintiffssoughtmultiple
Justice,AntitrustDivision,requestingdocumentsandinformation formsofmonetaryandinjunctiverelief.Johnson&Johnsonmoved
fortheperiodbeginningSeptember1,2000throughthepresent, todismissthesecondamendedcomplaintinMarch2011.TheCourt
pertainingtoaninvestigationofallegedviolationsoftheantitrust grantedthemotioninitsentiretyinAugust2011,dismissingall
lawsinthebloodreagentsindustry.OCDcompliedwiththesub- claimsassertedbyPlaintiffs.InOctober2011,theCourtdismissed
poena.InFebruary2011,OCDreceivedaletterfromtheAntitrust theactionwithprejudice.Theplaintiffsfiledanoticeofappealin
DivisionindicatingthatithadcloseditsinvestigationinNovember November2011.TheappealispendingbeforetheUnitedStates
2010.InJune2009,followingthepublicannouncementthatOCD CourtofAppealsfortheNinthCircuit.
hadreceivedagrandjurysubpoena,multipleclassactioncom- StartinginApril2010,anumberofshareholderderivativelaw-
plaintsseekingdamagesforallegedpricefixingwerefiledagainst suitswerefiledintheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrictof
OCD.Thevariouscaseswereconsolidatedforpre-trialpurposes NewJerseyagainstcertaincurrentandformerdirectorsandofficers
intheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheEasternDistrictof ofJohnson&Johnson.Johnson&Johnsonisnamedasanominal
Pennsylvania.Discoveryisongoing. defendant.TheseactionswereconsolidatedinAugust2010intoone
InMay2009,CentocorOrthoBiotechInc.(nowJanssen lawsuit:InreJohnson&JohnsonDerivativeLitigation.Anamendedcon-
Biotech,Inc.(JBI))commencedanarbitrationproceedingbefore solidatedcomplaintwasfiledinDecember2010.Additionally,in
theAmericanArbitrationAssociationagainstSchering-PloughCor- September2010,anothershareholderderivativelawsuitwasfiled
porationanditssubsidiarySchering-Plough(Ireland)Company(col- inNewJerseySuperiorCourtagainstcertaincurrentandformer
lectively,Schering-Plough).JBIandSchering-Plougharepartiestoa directorsandofficersofJohnson&Johnson.Johnson&Johnsonis
seriesofagreements(DistributionAgreements)thatgrantSchering- namedasanominaldefendantinthisactionaswell.Thepartiesto
PloughtheexclusiverighttodistributethedrugsREMICADE®and thisactionhavestipulatedthatitshallbestayeduntiltheInre
SIMPONI®worldwide,exceptwithintheUnitedStates,Japan, Johnson&JohnsonDerivativeLitigationiscompletelyresolved.
Taiwan,Indonesia,andthePeople’sRepublicofChina(including
HongKong).JBIdistributesREMICADE®andSIMPONI®,thenext
generationtreatment,withintheUnitedStates.Inthearbitration,
JBIsoughtadeclarationthattheagreementandmergerbetween
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 65Theseshareholderderivativeactionsaresimilarintheirclaims wasfiledinDecember2011.InJanuary2012,Johnson&Johnson
andcollectivelytheyassertavarietyofallegedbreachesoffiduciary movedtodismissorstaythestatelawsuitspendingresolutionof
duties,including,amongotherthings,thatthedefendantsallegedly thefederallawsuit.Inaddition,Johnson&Johnsonintendsto
engagedin,approvedof,orfailedtoremedyorpreventdefective movetodismissorstaythestatelawsuitsonthegroundsthatthe
medicaldevices,improperpharmaceuticalrebates,improperoff- plaintiffsfailedtomakeademandontheBoardofDirectors.
labelmarketingofpharmaceuticalandmedicaldeviceproducts, InSeptember2011,twoadditionalshareholderderivativelaw-
violationsofcurrentgoodmanufacturingpracticeregulationsthat suitswerefiledintheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrictof
resultedinproductrecalls,andthattheyfailedtodisclosetheafore- NewJerseynamingJohnson&Johnson’scurrentdirectorsandone
mentionedallegedmisconductintheCompany’sfilingsunderthe formerdirectorasdefendantsandJohnson&Johnsonasthenominal
SecuritiesExchangeActof1934.Eachcomplaintseeksavarietyof defendant.Theselawsuitsallegethatthedefendantsbreachedtheir
relief,includingmonetarydamagesandcorporategovernance fiduciarydutiesintheirdecisionswithrespecttothecompensation
reforms.Johnson&Johnsonmovedtodismisstheseactionsonthe oftheChiefExecutiveOfficerduringtheperiodfrom2008through
grounds,interalia,thattheplaintiffsfailedtomakeademandupon thepresent,andthatthedefendantsmademisleadingstatementsin
theBoardofDirectors.InSeptember2011,InreJohnson&Johnson Johnson&Johnson’sannualproxystatements.Oneoftheselawsuits
DerivativeLitigationwasdismissedwithoutprejudiceandwithleave hasbeenvoluntarilydismissed.Anamendedcomplainthasbeen
tofileanamendedcomplaint. filedintheother.InDecember2011,Johnson&Johnsonmovedto
Johnson&JohnsonfiledareportintheInreJohnson&Johnson dismisstheremaininglawsuitonthegroundsthattheplaintifffailed
DerivativeLitigationmatterinJuly2011,preparedbyaSpecialCom- tomakeademandupontheBoardofDirectors.
mitteeoftheBoardofDirectors,whichinvestigatedtheallegations StartinginMay2010,multiplecomplaintsseekingclassaction
containedinthederivativeactionsandinanumberofshareholder certificationrelatedtotheMcNeilrecallshavebeenfiledagainst
demandlettersthattheBoardreceivedin2010raisingsimilar McNeilConsumerHealthcareandcertainaffiliates,including
issues.TheSpecialCommitteewasassistedinitsinvestigationby Johnson&Johnson,intheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheEast-
independentcounsel.TheSpecialCommittee’sreportrecom- ernDistrictofPennsylvania,theNorthernDistrictofIllinois,the
mended:i)thatJohnson&Johnsonrejecttheshareholderdemands CentralDistrictofCalifornia,theSouthernDistrictofOhioandthe
andtakewhateverstepsarenecessaryorappropriatetosecuredis- EasternDistrictofMissouri.Theseconsumercomplaintsallegegen-
missalofthederivativelitigationandii)thattheBoardofDirectors erallythatpurchasersofvariousMcNeilmedicinesareowedmone-
createanewRegulatoryandComplianceCommitteechargedwith tarydamagesandpenaltiesbecausetheypaidpremiumpricesfor
responsibilityformonitoringandoversightoftheCompany’sHealth defectivemedicationsratherthanlessexpensivealternativemedica-
CareComplianceandQuality&Compliancesystemsandissues. tions.Allbutonecomplaintseekscertificationofanation-wideclass
Johnson&Johnson’sBoardofDirectorsunanimouslyadoptedthe ofpurchasersofthesemedicines,whereasonecomplaint,theHar-
SpecialCommittee’srecommendations.InAugust2011,twoshare- veycase,seekscertificationofaclassofMOTRIN®IBpurchasers
holderswhohadsubmittedshareholderdemandlettersin2010 inMissouri.InOctober2010,theJudicialPanelonMultidistrict
filedshareholderderivativelawsuitsintheUnitedStatesDistrict Litigation(JPML)consolidatedalloftheconsumercomplaints,
CourtfortheDistrictofNewJerseynamingvariouscurrentand exceptfortheHarveycase,whichwasconsolidatedinMarch2011,
formerofficersanddirectorsasdefendantsandchallengingthe forpretrialproceedingsintheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtforthe
Board’srejectionoftheirdemands.InNovember2011,theCourt EasternDistrictofPennsylvania.InJanuary2011,theplaintiffsin
consolidatedthesetwocases.Johnson&Johnsonhassecuredan allofthecasesexcepttheHarveycasefileda“Consolidated
extensionoftimetorespondtothecomplaint,andwill,ifnecessary, AmendedCivilConsumerClassActionComplaint”(CAC)naming
movetoterminatetheselawsuitsonthebasisoftheBoard’s additionalpartiesandclaims.InJuly2011,theCourtgranted
decisiontoadopttheSpecialCommittee’srecommendations. Johnson&Johnson’smotiontodismisstheCACwithoutprejudice,
Twoadditionalshareholderderivativelawsuitswerefiledin butpermittedtheplaintiffstofileanamendedcomplaintwithinthirty
May2011intheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrictofNew daysofthedismissalorder.InAugust2011,theplaintiffsfileda
Jersey,andtwoothershareholderderivativelawsuitswerefiledin SecondAmendedCivilConsumerClassActionComplaint(SAC).
NewJerseySuperiorCourtinMay2011andAugust2011,all Johnson&JohnsonmovedtodismisstheSACinSeptember2011.
namingJohnson&Johnson’scurrentdirectorsasdefendantsand Thissecondmotiontodismissispending.
Johnson&Johnsonasthenominaldefendant.Thecomplaintsallege Separately,inSeptember2011,Johnson&Johnson,
breachesoffiduciarydutiesrelatedtotheCompany’scompliance Johnson&JohnsonInc.andMcNeilConsumerHealthcareDivision
withtheForeignCorruptPracticesActandparticipationinthe ofJohnson&JohnsonInc.receivedaNoticeofCivilClaimfiledin
UnitedNationsIraqOilForFoodProgram,thattheCompanyhas theSupremeCourtofBritishColumbia,Canada(theCanadianCivil
suffereddamagesasaresultofthoseallegedbreaches,andthatthe Claim).TheCanadianCivilClaimisaputativeclassactionbrought
defendantsfailedtodisclosetheallegedmisconductinthe onbehalfofpersonswhoresideinBritishColumbiaandwhopur-
Company’sfilingsundertheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934.Plain- chasedvariousMcNeilchildren’sover-the-countermedicines
tiffsseekmonetarydamages,andoneplaintiffalsoseekscorporate duringtheperiodbetweenSeptember20,2001andthepresent.
governancereforms.ThefederallawsuitswereconsolidatedinJuly TheCanadianCivilClaimallegesthatthedefendantsviolatedthe
2011,andanamendedconsolidatedcomplaintwasfiledinAugust CanadianBusinessPracticesandConsumerProtectionAct,and
2011.InOctober2011,Johnson&Johnsonmovedtodismissthe otherCanadianstatutesandcommonlaws,bysellingmedicines
consolidatedfederallawsuitonthegroundsthattheplaintiffsfailed thatdidnotcomplywithCanadianGoodManufacturingPractices.
tomakeademandupontheBoardofDirectors.Thestatelawsuits
wereconsolidatedinNovember2011andaconsolidatedcomplaint
66 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2011 ANNUAL REPORTInSeptember2010,ashareholder,RonaldMonk,filedalawsuit 22.Restructuring
intheUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfortheDistrictofNewJersey Inthefiscalsecondquarterof2011,CordisCorporation,asubsidiary
seekingclasscertificationandallegingthatJohnson&Johnsonand ofJohnson&Johnson,announcedthediscontinuationofitsclinical
certainindividuals,includingexecutiveofficersandemployeesof developmentprogramfortheNEVO™Sirolimus-ElutingCoronary
Johnson&Johnson,failedtodisclosethatanumberofmanufactur- StentandcessationofthemanufactureandmarketingofCYPHER®
ingfacilitieswerefailingtomaintaincurrentgoodmanufacturing andCYPHERSELECT®PlusSirolimus-ElutingCoronaryStentsby
practices,andthatasaresult,thepriceofJohnson&Johnson’s theendof2011.TheCompanywillfocusonothercardiovascular
stockhasdeclinedsignificantly.Plaintiffseekstopursueremedies therapieswheresignificantpatientneedsexist.
undertheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934torecoverhisalleged Asaresultoftheabovementionedrestructuringplan
economiclosses.InDecember2011,Johnson&Johnson’smotionto announcedbyCordisCorporation,theCompanyrecorded
dismisswasgrantedinpartanddeniedinpart.Plaintiffhasmoved $676millioninrelatedpre-taxcharges,ofwhichapproximately
theCourttoreconsiderpartoftheDecember2011ruling.Defen- $164millionofthepre-taxrestructuringchargesrequirecashpay-
dantsfiledanswerstotheremainingclaimsoftheAmended ments.The$676millionofrestructuringchargesconsistsofasset
ComplaintinFebruary2012. write-offsof$512millionand$164millionrelatedtoleaseholdand
InApril2011,OMJPharmaceuticals,Inc.(OMJPR)fileda contractobligationsandotherexpenses.The$512millionofasset
lawsuitagainsttheUnitedStatesinUnitedStatesDistrictCourtfor write-offsrelatetoproperty,plantandequipmentof$265million,
theDistrictofPuertoRicoallegingoverpaymentoffederalincome intangibleassetsof$160millionandinventoryof$87million
taxesforthetaxyearsendedNovember30,1999andNovember30, (recordedincostofproductssold).TheCordisrestructuring
2000.OMJPRallegesthattheInternalRevenueServiceerro- programhasbeensubstantiallycompleted.
neouslycalculatedOMJPR’staxcreditsunderSection936ofthe TheCompanyrecordedanaccrualforrestructuringinthe
TaxCode.Discoveryisongoing. fourthquarterof2009,whichwassubstantiallycompletedin2011.
InAugust2011,anarbitrationpanelruledthatMitsubishi Foradditionalinformationontherestructuringasitrelatesto
TanabePharmaCorporation(Tanabe),JanssenBiotech,Inc.’s(JBI’s) thesegments,seeNote18.
distributorofREMICADE®inJapan,couldseektomodifythepropor-
tionofnetsalesrevenuethatTanabemustremittoJBIinexchange
fordistributionrightsandcommercialsupplyofREMICADE®(the
SupplyPrice).TanabecommencedthearbitrationagainstCentocor
OrthoBiotech,Inc.(nowJBI)in2009pursuanttotheparties’
distributionagreement,whichgrantsTanabetherighttodistribute
REMICADE®inJapanandcertainotherpartsofAsia.JBIhascoun-
terclaimedforanincreaseintheSupplyPrice.Ahearingwasheldin
November2011todeterminetheappropriatesplitofrevenueanda
decisionisanticipatedinthesecondhalfof2012.
Johnson&Johnsonoritssubsidiariesarealsopartiestoanum-
berofproceedingsbroughtundertheComprehensiveEnvironmen-
talResponse,Compensation,andLiabilityAct,commonlyknownas
Superfund,andcomparablestate,localorforeignlawsinwhichthe
primaryreliefsoughtisthecostofpastand/orfutureremediation.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 67ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm
TotheShareholdersandBoardofDirectorsofJohnson&Johnson: andevaluatingthedesignandoperatingeffectivenessofinternal
controlbasedontheassessedrisk.Ourauditsalsoincludedper-
Inouropinion,theaccompanyingconsolidatedbalancesheetsand
formingsuchotherproceduresasweconsiderednecessaryinthe
therelatedconsolidatedstatementsofearnings,statementsof
circumstances.Webelievethatourauditsprovideareasonable
equity,andstatementsofcashflowspresentfairly,inallmaterial
basisforouropinions.
respects,thefinancialpositionofJohnson&Johnsonanditssub-
Acompany’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingisa
sidiaries(“theCompany”)atJanuary1,2012andJanuary2,2011,
processdesignedtoprovidereasonableassuranceregardingthe
andtheresultsoftheiroperationsandtheircashflowsforeachof
reliabilityoffinancialreportingandthepreparationoffinancial
thethreeyearsintheperiodendedJanuary1,2012inconformity
statementsforexternalpurposesinaccordancewithgenerally
withaccountingprinciplesgenerallyacceptedintheUnitedStates
acceptedaccountingprinciples.Acompany’sinternalcontrolover
ofAmerica.Alsoinouropinion,theCompanymaintained,inall
financialreportingincludesthosepoliciesandproceduresthat(i)
materialrespects,effectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting
pertaintothemaintenanceofrecordsthat,inreasonabledetail,
asofJanuary1,2012,basedoncriteriaestablishedinInternal
accuratelyandfairlyreflectthetransactionsanddispositionsofthe
Control—IntegratedFrameworkissuedbytheCommitteeofSpon-
assetsofthecompany;(ii)providereasonableassurancethattrans-
soringOrganizationsoftheTreadwayCommission(COSO).The
actionsarerecordedasnecessarytopermitpreparationoffinancial
Company’smanagementisresponsibleforthesefinancialstate-
statementsinaccordancewithgenerallyacceptedaccountingprin-
ments,formaintainingeffectiveinternalcontroloverfinancial
ciples,andthatreceiptsandexpendituresofthecompanyarebeing
reportingandforitsassessmentoftheeffectivenessofinternal
madeonlyinaccordancewithauthorizationsofmanagementand
controloverfinancialreporting,includedintheaccompanying
directorsofthecompany;and(iii)providereasonableassurance
“Management’sReportonInternalControloverFinancialReport-
regardingpreventionortimelydetectionofunauthorizedacquisi-
ing.”Ourresponsibilityistoexpressopinionsonthesefinancial
tion,use,ordispositionofthecompany’sassetsthatcouldhavea
statementsandontheCompany’sinternalcontroloverfinancial
materialeffectonthefinancialstatements.
reportingbasedonourintegratedaudits.Weconductedouraudits
Becauseofitsinherentlimitations,internalcontroloverfinan-
inaccordancewiththestandardsofthePublicCompanyAccounting
cialreportingmaynotpreventordetectmisstatements.Also,pro-
OversightBoard(UnitedStates).Thosestandardsrequirethatwe
jectionsofanyevaluationofeffectivenesstofutureperiodsare
planandperformtheauditstoobtainreasonableassuranceabout
subjecttotheriskthatcontrolsmaybecomeinadequatebecauseof
whetherthefinancialstatementsarefreeofmaterialmisstatement
changesinconditions,orthatthedegreeofcompliancewiththe
andwhethereffectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingwas
policiesorproceduresmaydeteriorate.
maintainedinallmaterialrespects.Ourauditsofthefinancialstate-
mentsincludedexamining,onatestbasis,evidencesupportingthe
amountsanddisclosuresinthefinancialstatements,assessingthe
accountingprinciplesusedandsignificantestimatesmadeby
management,andevaluatingtheoverallfinancialstatementpresen-
tation.Ourauditofinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingincluded
obtaininganunderstandingofinternalcontroloverfinancialreport- NewYork,NewYork
ing,assessingtheriskthatamaterialweaknessexists,andtesting February23,2012
68 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRMManagement’sReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReporting
UnderSection404oftheSarbanes-OxleyActof2002,manage- establishedbytheCommitteeofSponsoringOrganizationsofthe
mentisrequiredtoassesstheeffectivenessoftheCompany’sinter- TreadwayCommission(COSO)in“InternalControl-Integrated
nalcontroloverfinancialreportingasoftheendofeachfiscalyear Framework.”Thesecriteriaareintheareasofcontrolenvironment,
andreport,basedonthatassessment,whethertheCompany’s riskassessment,controlactivities,informationandcommunication,
internalcontroloverfinancialreportingiseffective. andmonitoring.TheCompany’sassessmentincludedextensive
ManagementoftheCompanyisresponsibleforestablishing documenting,evaluatingandtestingthedesignandoperating
andmaintainingadequateinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting. effectivenessofitsinternalcontrolsoverfinancialreporting.
TheCompany’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingisdesigned BasedontheCompany’sprocessesandassessment,as
toprovidereasonableassuranceastothereliabilityoftheCompany’s describedabove,managementhasconcludedthat,asofJanuary1,
financialreportingandthepreparationofexternalfinancialstate- 2012,theCompany’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting
mentsinaccordancewithgenerallyacceptedaccountingprinciples. waseffective.
Internalcontrolsoverfinancialreporting,nomatterhowwell TheeffectivenessoftheCompany’sinternalcontrolover
designed,haveinherentlimitations.Therefore,internalcontrolover financialreportingasofJanuary1,2012hasbeenauditedby
financialreportingdeterminedtobeeffectivecanprovideonly PricewaterhouseCoopersLLP,anindependentregisteredpublic
reasonableassurancewithrespecttofinancialstatementprepara- accountingfirm,asstatedintheirreport,whichappearsherein.
tionandmaynotpreventordetectallmisstatements.Moreover,
projectionsofanyevaluationofeffectivenesstofutureperiodsare
subjecttotheriskthatcontrolsmaybecomeinadequatebecauseof
changesinconditions,orthatthedegreeofcompliancewiththe
policiesorproceduresmaydeteriorate.
TheCompany’smanagementhasassessedtheeffectivenessof WilliamC.Weldon DominicJ.Caruso
theCompany’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingasofJanuary Chairman,BoardofDirectors, VicePresident,Finance,
1,2012.Inmakingthisassessment,theCompanyusedthecriteria andChiefExecutiveOfficer andChiefFinancialOfficer
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 69SummaryofOperationsandStatisticalData
2001-2011
(DollarsinMillionsExceptPerShareFigures) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
Salestocustomers—U.S. $ 28,908 29,450 30,889 32,309 32,444 29,775 28,377 27,770 25,274 22,455 19,825
Salestocustomers—International 36,122 32,137 31,008 31,438 28,651 23,549 22,137 19,578 16,588 13,843 12,492
Totalsales 65,030 61,587 61,897 63,747 61,095 53,324 50,514 47,348 41,862 36,298 32,317
Costofproductssold 20,360 18,792 18,447 18,511 17,751 15,057 14,010 13,474 12,231 10,498 9,622
Selling,marketingandadministrativeexpenses 20,969 19,424 19,801 21,490 20,451 17,433 17,211 16,174 14,463 12,520 11,510
Researchanddevelopmentexpense 7,548 6,844 6,986 7,577 7,680 7,125 6,462 5,344 4,834 4,094 3,704
Purchasedin-processresearchanddevelopment — — — 181 807 559 362 18 918 189 105
Interestincome (91) (107) (90) (361) (452) (829) (487) (195) (177) (256) (456)
Interestexpense,netofportioncapitalized 571 455 451 435 296 63 54 187 207 160 153
Other(income)expense,net 2,743 (768) (526) (1,015) 534 (671) (214) 15 (385) 294 185
Restructuring 569 — 1,073 — 745 — — — — — —
52,669 44,640 46,142 46,818 47,812 38,737 37,398 35,017 32,091 27,499 24,823
Earningsbeforeprovisionfortaxesonincome 12,361 16,947 15,755 16,929 13,283 14,587 13,116 12,331 9,771 8,799 7,494
Provisionfortaxesonincome 2,689 3,613 3,489 3,980 2,707 3,534 3,056 4,151 2,923 2,522 2,089
Netearnings 9,672 13,334 12,266 12,949 10,576 11,053 10,060 8,180 6,848 6,277 5,405
Percentofsalestocustomers 14.9 21.7 19.8 20.3 17.3 20.7 19.9 17.3 16.4 17.3 16.7
Dilutednetearningspershareofcommonstock $ 3.49 4.78 4.40 4.57 3.63 3.73 3.35 2.74 2.29 2.06 1.75
Percentreturnonaverageshareholders’equity 17.0 24.9 26.4 30.2 25.6 28.3 28.2 27.3 27.1 26.4 24.0
Percentincrease(decrease)overpreviousyear:
Salestocustomers 5.6 (0.5) (2.9) 4.3 14.6 5.6 6.7 13.1 15.3 12.3 10.8
Dilutednetearningspershare (27.0) 8.6 (3.7) 25.9 (2.7) 11.3 22.3 19.7 11.2 17.7 12.9
Supplementaryexpensedata:
Costofmaterialsandservices $ 28,932 27,586 27,651 29,346 27,967 22,912 22,328 21,053 18,568 16,540 15,333
Totalemploymentcosts 15,202 13,934 14,587 14,523 14,571 13,444 12,364 11,581 10,542 8,942 8,153
Depreciationandamortization 3,158 2,939 2,774 2,832 2,777 2,177 2,093 2,124 1,869 1,662 1,605
Maintenanceandrepairs(1) 771 657 567 583 483 506 510 462 395 360 372
Totaltaxexpense(2) 4,230 5,070 5,052 5,558 4,177 4,857 4,285 5,215 3,890 3,325 2,854
Supplementarybalancesheetdata:
Property,plantandequipment,net 14,739 14,553 14,759 14,365 14,185 13,044 10,830 10,436 9,846 8,710 7,719
Additionstoproperty,plantandequipment 2,893 2,384 2,365 3,066 2,942 2,666 2,632 2,175 2,262 2,099 1,731
Totalassets 113,644 102,908 94,682 84,912 80,954 70,556 58,864 54,039 48,858 40,984 38,771
Long-termdebt 12,969 9,156 8,223 8,120 7,074 2,014 2,017 2,565 2,955 2,022 2,217
Operatingcashflow 14,298 16,385 16,571 14,972 15,022 14,248 11,799 11,089 10,571 8,135 8,781
Commonstockinformation
Dividendspaidpershare $ 2.250 2.110 1.930 1.795 1.620 1.455 1.275 1.095 0.925 0.795 0.700
Shareholders’equitypershare 20.95 20.66 18.37 15.35 15.25 13.59 13.01 10.95 9.25 7.79 8.05
Marketpricepershare(year-endclose) 65.58 61.85 64.41 58.56 67.38 66.02 60.10 63.42 50.62 53.11 59.86
Averagesharesoutstanding(millions)—basic 2,736.0 2,751.4 2,759.5 2,802.5 2,882.9 2,936.4 2,973.9 2,968.4 2,968.1 2,998.3 3,033.8
—diluted 2,775.3 2,788.8 2,789.1 2,835.6 2,910.7 2,961.0 3,002.8 2,992.7 2,995.1 3,049.1 3,089.3
Employees(thousands) 117.9 114.0 115.5 118.7 119.2 122.2 115.6 109.9 110.6 108.3 101.8
(1)Alsoincludedincostofmaterialsandservicescategory.
(2)Includestaxesonincome,payroll,propertyandotherbusinesstaxes.
70 SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS AND STATISTICAL DATAShareholderReturnPerformanceGraphs
SetforthbelowarelinegraphscomparingthecumulativetotalshareholderreturnontheCompany'sCommonStockforperiodsoffiveyears
andtenyearsendingDecember31,2011,againstthecumulativetotalreturnoftheStandard&Poor's500StockIndex,theStandard&Poor's
PharmaceuticalIndexandtheStandard&Poor'sHealthCareEquipmentIndex.Thegraphsandtablesassumethat$100wasinvested
onDecember31,2006andDecember31,2001ineachoftheCompany'sCommonStock,theStandard&Poor's500StockIndex,the
Standard&Poor'sPharamaceuticalIndexandtheStandard&Poor'sHealthCareEquipmentIndexandthatalldividendswerereinvested.
5-YearCumulative $125
TotalShareholderReturn
(2006–2011)
Johnson & Johnson
S&P500Index $105
S&PPharmaceutical
Index
S&PHealthCare
EquipmentIndex $85
5-YearC.A.G.R.
J&J 3.0%
S&P500 (0.2%)
S&PPharm 3.8%
S&P H/C Equip (1.1%) $65
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Johnson&Johnson $100.00 103.61 95.56 106.34 105.72 116.17
S&P500Index $100.00 105.49 66.46 84.05 96.71 98.76
S&P Pharmaceutical Index $100.00 104.65 85.61 101.54 102.33 120.50
S&PHealthCareEquipmentIndex $100.00 105.13 76.07 97.96 95.31 94.55
10-YearCumulative $150
TotalShareholderReturn
(2001–2011)
Johnson & Johnson
S&P500Index $125
S&PPharmaceutical
Index
S&P Health Care
Equipment Index
$100
10-YearC.A.G.R.
J&J 3.6%
S&P500 2.9%
S&PPharm 0.8%
S&P H/C Equip 2.5% $75
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Johnson&Johnson $100.00 92.12 90.17 112.87 109.08 122.65 127.08 117.21 130.42 129.66 142.49
S&P500Index $100.00 77.90 100.24 111.15 116.61 135.02 142.44 89.74 113.49 130.59 133.34
S&PPharmaceuticalIndex $100.00 79.96 86.98 80.52 77.81 90.14 94.34 77.17 91.53 92.24 108.63
S&P HealthCare Equipment Index $100.00 87.36 115.35 129.91 129.98 135.33 142.28 102.95 132.58 128.99 127.95
SHAREHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE GRAPHS 71ReconciliationofNon-GAAPFinancialMeasures
ThetablesbelowareprovidedtoreconcilecertainfinancialdisclosuresintheLettertoShareholders,page1.
’11vs.’10 ’10vs.’09
(DollarsinMillionsExceptPerShareData) 2011 2010 2009 %Change %Change
Earningsbeforeprovisionfortaxesonincome—asreported $12,361 16,947 15,755 (27.1)% 7.6
Netlitigationsettlementsloss(gain) 1,710 (966) (386)
Productliabilityexpenses 1,600 569 —
Restructuringexpense 656 — 1,186
DePuyASR™Hiprecallprogram 521 280 —
AdjustmenttothevalueofthecurrencyoptionandcostsrelatedtoplannedacquisitionofSynthes,Inc. 491 — —
In-processresearchanddevelopment 14 — —
Earningsbeforeprovisionfortaxesonincome—asadjusted $17,353 16,830 16,555 3.1% 1.7
NetEarnings—asreported $ 9,672 13,334 12,266 (27.5)% 8.7
Netlitigationsettlementsloss(gain) 1,466 (698) (212)
Productliabilityexpenses 1,279 404 —
Restructuringexpense 536 — 852
DePuyASR™Hiprecallprogram 426 239 —
AdjustmenttothevalueofthecurrencyoptionandcostsrelatedtoplannedacquisitionofSynthes,Inc. 477 — —
In-processresearchanddevelopment 11 — —
NetEarnings—asadjusted $13,867 13,279 12,906 4.4% 2.9
DilutedNetEarningspershare—asreported $ 3.49 4.78 4.40 (27.0)% 8.6
Netlitigationsettlementsloss(gain) 0.53 (0.25) (0.08)
Productliabilityexpenses 0.46 0.14 —
Restructuringexpense 0.19 — 0.31
DePuyASR™Hiprecallprogram 0.16 0.09 —
AdjustmenttothevalueofthecurrencyoptionandcostsrelatedtoplannedacquisitionofSynthes,Inc. 0.17 — —
In-processresearchanddevelopment — — —
DilutedNetEarningspershare—asadjusted $ 5.00 4.76 4.63 5.0% 2.8
’11vs.’10 ’10vs.’09
(DollarsinMillions) 2011 2010 2009 %Change %Change
Netcashflowsfromoperatingactivities $14,298 16,385 16,571
Additionstoproperty,plantandequipment (2,893) (2,384) (2,365)
FreeCashFlow $11,405 14,001 14,206 (18.5)% (1.4)
TheCompanyprovidesearningsbeforeprovisionfortaxesonincome,netearnings,netearningspershare(diluted)andnetcashflows
fromoperatingactivitiesonanadjustedbasisbecausemanagementbelievesthatthesemeasuresprovideusefulinformationtoinvestors.
Amongotherthings,thesemeasuresmayassistinvestorsinevaluatingtheCompany’sresultsofoperationsperiodoverperiod.Invarious
periods,thesemeasuresmayexcludesuchitemsassignificantcostsassociatedwithacquisitions,restructuring,litigation,andchangesin
applicablelawsandregulations(includingsignificantaccountingortaxmatters).Thesespecialitemsmaybehighlyvariable,difficultto
predict,andofasizethatsometimeshassubstantialimpactontheCompany’sreportedresultsofoperationsforaperiod.Management
usesthesemeasuresinternallyforplanning,forecastingandevaluatingtheperformancesoftheCompany’sbusinesses,includingallocating
resourcesandevaluatingresultsrelativetoemployeeperformancecompensationtargets.Unlikeearningsbeforeprovisionfortaxeson
income,netearnings,netearningspershare(diluted)andnetcashflowsfromoperatingactivitiespreparedinaccordancewithGAAP,
adjustedearningsbeforeprovisionfortaxesonincome,adjustednetearnings,adjustednetearningspershare(diluted)andfreecashflow
maynotbecomparablewiththecalculationofsimilarmeasuresforothercompanies.Thesenon-GAAPfinancialmeasuresarepresented
solelytopermitinvestorstomorefullyunderstandhowmanagementassessestheperformanceoftheCompany.Thelimitationsofusing
thesenon-GAAPfinancialmeasuresasperformancemeasuresarethattheyprovideaviewoftheCompany’sresultsofoperationswithout
includingalleventsduringaperiod,suchastheeffectsofanacquisition,restructuring,litigation,andchangesinapplicablelawsand
regulations(includingsignificantaccountingortaxmatters)anddonotprovideacomparableviewoftheCompany’sperformancetoother
companiesinthehealthcareindustry.Investorsshouldconsidernon-GAAPfinancialmeasuresinadditionto,andnotasreplacementsfor,
orsuperiorto,measuresoffinancialperformancepreparedinaccordancewithGAAP.
72 RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURESPRINCIPAL OFFICE COMMON StOCK JOHNSON & JOHNSON ON tHE WEB
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza Listed on New York Stock Exchange Company website: www.jnj.com
New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933 Stock Symbol: JNJ
Online annual report:
(732) 524-0400
SHAREHOLDER RELAtIONS CONtACt www.investor.jnj.com/2011annualreport
ANNUAL MEEtING Douglas K. Chia
The Annual Meeting of Shareholders will take Corporate Secretary Our blog: www.jnjbtw.com
place April 26, 2012, at the Hyatt Regency New (732) 524-2455
Brunswick, 2 Albany Street, New Brunswick, Our history blog: www.kilmerhouse.com
INVEStOR RELAtIONS CONtACt
New Jersey. The meeting will convene at 10 a.m.
Louise Mehrotra
All shareholders are cordially invited to attend.
Vice President, Investor Relations www.facebook.com/JNJ
A formal Notice of Meeting, Proxy Statement
(800) 950-5089
and Proxy have been sent to shareholders.
@JNJComm; @JNJStories; @JNJVideo;
(732) 524-6492
@JNJHistory
CORPORAtE GOVERNANCE
tRANSFER AGENt AND REGIStRAR
Copies of the Company’s 2011 Annual Report
Questions regarding stock holdings, www.youtube.com/JNJhealth
on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
certificate replacement/transfer, dividends and
10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K to the
address changes should be directed to:
Securities and Exchange Commission, Proxy
Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
Statement, and this Annual Report are available Scan this code into your
250 Royall Street
online at www.investor.jnj.com/sec-filings.cfm, smartphone to view the
Canton, MA 02021
or to shareholders without charge upon written multimedia version of
(800) 328-9033 or
request to the Secretary at the Company’s this report.
(781) 575-2718 (outside the U.S.)
principal address or by calling (800) 950-5089.
www.computershare.com
In addition, on the Company’s Corporate DIVIDEND REINVEStMENt PLAN
Governance website at www.investor.jnj.com/ The Plan allows for full or partial
governance/materials.cfm, shareholders can dividend reinvestment, and additional monthly
view the Company’s Principles of Corporate cash investments up to $50,000 per year, in
Governance, Charters of the Audit Committee, Johnson & Johnson common stock without
Compensation & Benefits Committee and brokerage commissions or service charges
Nominating & Corporate Governance on stock purchases. If you are interested in
Committee, Policy on Business Conduct for participating in the Plan and need an authoriza-
Employees and Code of Business Conduct & tion form and/or more information, please call
Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
and Executive Officers. Copies of these at (800) 328-9033 or (781) 575-2718
documents are available to shareholders (outside the U.S.).
without charge upon written request to the
Secretary at the Company’s principal address. HEARING IMPAIRED
Shareholders who have inquiries regarding
The Company is required to file as an Exhibit to stock-related matters can communicate directly
its Form 10-K for each fiscal year certifications with Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act via a telecommunications device (TDD).
signed by the Chief Executive Officer and The telephone number for this service is
the Chief Financial Officer. In addition, the (800) 952-9245 or (781) 575-2692 (outside
Company is required to submit a certification the U.S.). The paper used in this publication is made from
signed by the Chief Executive Officer to the 30% and 100% post-consumer recycled fiber,
New York Stock Exchange within 30 days ELECtRONIC DELIVERY NOtIFICAtION is Forest Stewardship Council™ certified for
following the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Registered shareholders who wish to receive chain of custody and was manufactured with
Copies of the certifications filed for previous electronic notice of online access to future green energy credits for purchase of electricity
years are posted on the Company’s Corporate annual reports and proxy materials instead of generated from renewable-energy sources
Governance website, and future certifications paper copies may register online: such as wind and low-impact hydro resources.
will be posted promptly upon filing. www.computershare-na.com/green.
Beneficial Johnson & Johnson shareholders
(you own shares through a broker or bank) can
register for online delivery of materials by going
to http://enroll.icsdelivery.com/jnj.
The Johnson & Johnson annual report contains many
of the valuable trademarks and trade names owned and
used by the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies in
the United States and internationally to distinguish
products and services of outstanding quality.
©Johnson & Johnson 2012
CORPORATE AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATIONOne Johnson & Johnson Plaza, New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933