2018 Health
for Humanity
Report
Progress in Citizenship & Sustainability2018 Health for Humanity Report 2
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Contents
Overview 3 Our People 62 Environmental Health 116
Johnson & Johnson At-A-Glance 3 Attracting the Most Talented People 64 EHS&S Management 118
Our Credo 5 Creating Unique Career Opportunities 68 Climate & Energy 119
Message from Our Leaders 6 Engaging, Empowering and Inspiring 71 Waste & Water Management 126
2018 Year in Brief 10 Advancing Diversity & Inclusion 75 Product Sustainability 129
Providing Safe Workplaces 78
Our Approach 12 Championing Health & Wellness 81 Appendix 135
Health for Humanity Strategy & Progress 13 GRI Index 136
Sustainability Governance 21 Responsible Business Practices 83 UNGC Index 136
Setting Priorities 22 Product Quality, Safety & Reliability 84 Data Summary 136
Engaging with Our Stakeholders 23 Ethics & Transparency 94 About This Report 137
Respect for Human Rights 101 Independent Assurance Statements 138
Better Health for All 26 Information Security & Privacy 103
World Without Disease 27 Strong Corporate Governance 105 References 144
Enhancing Access to Healthcare 40 Responsible Supply Base 107
Innovating for Better Health 44
Strengthening Health Systems 51
Contributing to Community Health 562018 Health for Humanity Report 3
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Overview
~260
The Johnson & Johnson The Johnson & Johnson
Medical Devices Family of Consumer
operating companies
Companies Companies
Johnson & Johnson 140,861
At-A-Glance Comprised of surgical, Offers the world’s largest range of
employees
orthopaedic, eye health, medical consumer health products. From
GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7 specialty businesses as well baby care and oral care to beauty,
as interventional solutions for health and healing, we anticipate
~60
cardiovascular and neurovascular needs and create solutions and
Our Purpose disease. Representing the most experiences to help people live
countries of operation
comprehensive surgical technology healthy, vibrant lives.
Johnson & Johnson is the largest and most
and specialty solutions business
diversified healthcare company in the world. We in the world, the group offers an 2018 Sales: $13,853 million
$10,775M
have been caring for people since 1886. unparalleled breadth of products,
services, programs and R&D
Our Values capabilities directed at advancing R&D investment
patient care while delivering clinical
We are driven by Our Credo, a set of values and
and economic value to healthcare The Janssen
principles that challenges and inspires us to put the $81,581M
systems worldwide. Pharmaceutical Companies
needs and wellbeing of the people we serve first.
of Johnson & Johnson
2018 Sales: $26,994 million total sales
Our Business
Our global headquarters are in New Brunswick,
$15,297M
New Jersey, USA. Johnson & Johnson has been Address some of the most
listed on the New York Stock Exchange since 1944 devastating and complex diseases
under the symbol JNJ. For changes in our business of our time, focusing on six net earnings
therapeutic areas: immunology,
during the reporting period, please visit page 71 of
infectious diseases and vaccines,
our 2018 Annual Report. neuroscience, oncology, $127.27
cardiovascular and metabolism,
and pulmonary hypertension. By market price per share,
investing in a transformative future, year-end close
we are changing the way diseases
are prevented, intercepted, treated
and cured.
2018 Sales: $40,734 million2018 Health for Humanity Report 4
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Our Brands
Every day, we touch millions of lives with our products. Following are select brands that represent the diversity of the Johnson & Johnson
product portfolio in our three business segments, spanning the continuum of healthcare.
Consumer Medical Devices Pharmaceutical2018 Health for Humanity Report 5
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Our Credo
GRI 102-16
come. These conversations were then replicated by teams across
the Enterprise to inspire individual accountability and commitment.
At the core, these changes reflect Johnson & Johnson's More
commitment to all of humanity, and push thinking beyond the
Resources
traditional definition of health to provide people with solutions and
experiences that improve their whole life. We brought patients
to the front of the list of stakeholders in the first paragraph of
133 Years of Innovative Credo-Driven
Our Credo as we know they are waiting for our life-saving and
Decisions That Have Made
life-enhancing products and solutions. We added inclusion,
Johnson & Johnson the Healthcare
fulfillment and purpose to the second paragraph of Our Credo as
Leader It Is Today
not only are diversity and inclusion the way we've done business
for more than 130 years, but we know that it's not enough to have
a diverse workforce in order to be successful. We need to create
Johnson & Johnson employees in Asia-Pacific region
an environment where people are supported and empowered The Power of Our Credo:
celebrating the global Credo Day.
to bring forward their unique backgrounds, driving innovation in Johnson & Johnson Chairman and
service of our shared purpose to change the trajectory of health for CEO Alex Gorsky Reflects on the
humanity. These and other enhancements reflect the Company's Legacy of the Company's Historic
responsibility to ensure it remains just as forward-thinking as the
In 2018, Johnson & Johnson marked the 75th anniversary of Mission Statement
day it was introduced.
Our Credo, the set of values that ground and guide the decision
making of our employees around the world. In addition to
On December 13, 2018, the Company held its first annual Credo
celebrating the enduring power of this document, for the first time
Day celebration, commemorating 75 years from the date that
in more than three decades, we updated Our Credo to ensure it
General Johnson first presented Our Credo to the Board of
remains both timeless and timely.
Directors in 1943. More than 30,000 employees in locations around
the world participated in a Global Town Hall, attended unique
These enhancements were informed and shaped by the feedback
celebrations, and joined outreach efforts to bring the spirit of the
of our employees around the world. Employees were challenged
Credo to their local communities.
to expand their understanding of our commitments, reflect and
have open conversations about opportunities to better live Our
Our Credo is more than words—it is a set of promises to
Credo, and take ownership of each responsibility through daily
which every individual, team and company across our business
actions. The Executive Committee led in-depth conversations on
are actively dedicated everyday. Most importantly, these
each paragraph, discussing with employees how we are living our
enhancements ensure Our Credo positions us to continue to place
values, where we can show up stronger for those we serve, and
the needs of those we serve at the forefront of everything we do.
how we can continue to improve human health for generations to2018 Health for Humanity Report 6
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Message from Our Leaders
GRI 102-14
Statement from Chairman & CEO At Johnson & Johnson, we know that meeting those
challenges head on means addressing disease along the
Dear Johnson & Johnson Stakeholders,
entire continuum of health: from prevention to interception to
cure. We’re making great progress on our preventive HIV and
2018 marked a meaningful anniversary for our Company.
Ebola vaccines. As a committed partner in the global fight
Seventy-five years ago, we enshrined one of our most against tuberculosis (TB), we’re delivering on our Health for
enduring values into Our Credo: to put the needs and Humanity 2020 Goal to treat the disease by increasing access
wellbeing of those we serve first. By always prioritizing those to our multidrug-resistant TB therapy, bedaquiline.
we serve—something we’ve done since our founding—we’ve
You can also see our commitment to expanding access in our
grown from a purveyor of surgical dressings to the largest
second annual Janssen U.S. Transparency Report. It details all
broadly based healthcare company in the world.
the ways we’re working to secure and expand patient access
At Johnson & Johnson, we believe we’re uniquely positioned while leading in our commitment to visible, accountable
Alex Gorsky meeting with employees on his visit
to bring together science, people, technology and the ideas and responsible drug pricing practices in the United States.
to Australia.
needed to profoundly change the trajectory of health for Globally, we make the same commitment to expand access
humanity. That scale and reach come with a huge sense of and it helped land us a #3 position on the Access to Medicine
responsibility—every decision we make can have an enduring Index. supporting our employees with everything from best-in-
impact across the globe. class health programs to investing in their personal and
We recognize that we cannot solve all the pressing professional growth.
Our 2018 Health for Humanity Report is an invitation for you healthcare challenges alone and are proud to work in close
to experience the work we do. You’ll see how our ethos of partnership with healthcare organizations around the world. Putting the needs of those we serve first also means
results, transparency and accountability runs through our key In sub-Saharan Africa, for example, we’re piloting a series protecting our shared environment and natural resources.
focus areas: better health for the whole world, investing in of collaborations to create an affordable, scalable quality Our Consumer business segment joined 240 other
our people, responsible business practices and safeguarding care model for the treatment of severe mental illness. That organizations in the New Plastics Economy Global
the environmental health of our planet. Living by these same collaborative spirit informs much of our philanthropic Commitment to tackle the urgent environmental challenge
values is how we’ve helped to address some of the greatest investment. Take our historical support of workers at the front of plastic waste. This initiative expands upon our broader
healthcare needs in modern history while delivering long- lines of healthcare. This year, we expanded that commitment organizational commitment to advance environmental
term value for all the stakeholders we serve. by joining the Health for All alliance to ensure that 450,000 sustainability in our own operations and in our supply base.
frontline healthcare workers around the world get the training
The stakes continue to get higher. A rising middle class, they need. To ensure we’re always investing for the future and keeping
now in the billions around the globe, is demanding quality, the long-term view, we’re participating in important initiatives
accessible healthcare in unprecedented ways. Our However, none of these achievements would be possible like the Embankment Project for Inclusive Capitalism, CECP’s
increasingly aging population is redefining standards of care. without our incredible global workforce. As part of our 75th Strategic Investor Initiative and the U.S. Business Roundtable.
Scientific advances and technological disruption give us anniversary enhancement of Our Credo, we emphasized our With these expert partners, we’re helping to shift the
the opportunity and means to constantly innovate. And the commitment to always creating a diverse culture of respect, conversation in the financial markets toward a long-term view
health impacts of climate change provide the urgency for inclusion and belonging. And, as always, we continue our and measurement of the value to society that a business like
more action. push to have one of the healthiest workforces in the world by ours creates.2018 Health for Humanity Report 7
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Our Health for Humanity Report demonstrates how we’ve
used our history of innovation to change the health and
wellbeing of everyone we serve. Our unique mix of talent,
know-how and values is how we’ll change the world—not
just as leaders in healthcare, but also as global citizens and
champions of transforming lives and communities.
In the meantime, we recognize there is always more to do,
and we welcome the challenge to make sure we’re even more
sustainable, innovative and responsible moving forward.
Alex Gorsky
Chairman, Board of Directors
and Chief Executive Officer2018 Health for Humanity Report 8
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Q&A with Our CFO What are Johnson & Johnson’s current sustainability
priorities?
How does the changing healthcare landscape impact
Our current key sustainability priorities are Product
Johnson & Johnson’s priorities when it comes to
Quality Safety & Reliability, Ethics & Compliance, Access &
environmental, social and governance practices?
Affordability, Global Public Health and Innovation, which align
Through our Priority Topics Assessment process, we to the areas of focus for us as a global healthcare company.
continuously ensure that we are identifying and prioritizing We are also currently working to review and evolve our
the environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues that priorities list, as the stakeholder expectations and the business
matter most to our stakeholders—and to our Company’s environments in which we operate continue to evolve.
purpose to change the trajectory of health for humanity.
If you look at the ESG priorities outlined in this report, From the perspective of Johnson & Johnson’s CFO, there are
they reflect and encompass many of the challenges and a few sustainability priorities that are of particular importance
opportunities we face in today’s dynamic healthcare to me: Ethics & Compliance and Innovation. These priorities Joseph J. Wolk (left), Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer for Johnson & Johnson.
landscape, such as aging populations, the impacts of are integral to the Finance organization’s efforts to create
climate change on health, and the increasing importance long-term value that reflect the values of Our Credo. For
of robotics and AI to medicine. We know that as one of the example, inherent in Ethics & Compliance is our commitment of the strength of our broad-based business, and reflect
world’s largest healthcare companies, we have a unique to pay our fair share of taxes at the local, state, federal and our relentless drive for innovation, rigorous portfolio
responsibility in leading the industry forward on these international levels. From this vantage point, management, purposeful execution and a disciplined capital
matters. As always, Our Credo guides us to ensure that we Johnson & Johnson helps the communities in which we allocation strategy, all of which are regularly reviewed with
are multi-faceted in determining our ESG priorities. operate by contributing to their economic strength, stability our Board of Directors.
and growth for the long term.
Whether you call it “corporate social responsibility,” “ESG
As the Chief Financial Officer, why do you care about
I’m very proud of the fact that our commitment to innovation factors” or “long-term value creation,” the concept of creating
sustainability?
has enabled us to pursue both our purpose and performance value for our stakeholders and society at large has been a
We have long believed that continuing to improve with equal commitment. It is Johnson & Johnson’s relentless vital part of how we have done business since the Company’s
the sustainability of our business is integral to focus on transformational innovation, science and technology inception in 1886. Our Credo is Johnson & Johnson’s original
Johnson & Johnson’s ability to achieve financial success that enables our strong financial performance. As a result, sustainability framework document, as it recognizes that
and create long-term value for our stakeholders. As a leader this financial performance enables us to sustain and exceed strong returns to our shareholders are achievable in concert
and financial steward of Johnson & Johnson, one of my our investment in innovation. In fact, in 2018 we invested with meeting the needs of all our stakeholders reflected in
responsibilities is to manage risk. Managing sustainability risk approximately $11 billion in research and development, not the four paragraphs of Our Credo—the patients, doctors
is a component of our approach to overall risk management. only a record level for our Company, but this also positioned us and nurses, mothers and fathers and all others who use our
Sustainability provides us with the opportunity to as one of the top 10 companies investing globally in innovation. products and services; our employees; our communities; and
contribute to enhancing compliance and reducing operating our shareholders.
costs, while also improving our business processes and
How would you describe the Johnson & Johnson approach
efficiencies. Sustainability practices are embedded in our to long-term value creation? How are you using disclosure at Johnson & Johnson?
operations, resulting in innovative manufacturing processes
and transformative products, which enable us to deliver Managing for the long-term is a central principle for our We believe that transparency benefits all participants in the
environmental, societal and economic benefits. Company and has been a powerful generator of value over healthcare system and we take our responsibility seriously.
our history. Our years of robust performance are indicative We are a leader in providing transparency about our
commitment to profoundly advance health for humanity, as
well as how we price our medicines and invest our resources.2018 Health for Humanity Report 9
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
We communicate these important disclosures, and many
other topics, through the Health for Humanity Report you are
reading now, our annual Janssen U.S. Transparency Report,
our Proxy Statement, our Annual Report and other Company
SEC filings. Through these disclosures, we aim to provide a
holistic view of how we create long-term value for Our Credo
stakeholders, as well as our Company’s position on important
topics. We look forward to feedback from our stakeholders
on these issues and are always open to new ideas and ways
we can enhance our disclosures or practices.2018 Health for Humanity Report 10
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
2018 Year in Brief
Highlights of the year
SYMTUZA (darunavir, cobicistat, emtricitabine, and tenofovir Advanced development of a
Celebrated Our Credo
alafenamide), the first and only complete darunavir-based revolutionary CAR-T therapy
75th Anniversary
single-tablet regimen to treat HIV-1 approved by the U.S. FDA for multiple myeloma
Broader use of bedaquiline to treat
Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc. joined the
#3 on Access to Medicines Index MDR-TB patients recommended by the
New Plastics Economy Global Commitment
World Health Organization
Launched a pilot program in Rwanda to
Expanded partnership with UNICEF with a
improve access to mental healthcare Launched new JOHNSON'S Baby $10 million pledge
Impact made
Our Patients & Consumers Our Employees Our Communities & Planet Our Shareholders
38,994 16,343 104,479 56
patients provided access to employees trained in the principles of health workers educated in 67 countries consecutive years of dividend increases
MDR-TB treatment ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE
51,503 44.2% 31% $10,775M
patients provided access of Manager and above talent movement electricity use from renewable invested in R&D
to HIV treatment that was across function, energy sources
country or sector lines*
* Represents the proportion of employees in Manager and above job categories who in their career progression movement (including upward promotion, downward demotion, or lateral transfer) crossed
function, country or business segment lines.2018 Health for Humanity Report 11
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Recognitions
Member of Member of the Billion
Top company on
#LinkedInTopCompanies list Dollar Roundtable for FTSE4Good Index
as one of the world’s most supplier diversity Series constituent
sought-after employers
for the 8th consecutive year
Working Mother 100 Best Companies
(for 33rd consecutive year) – Top 10 and Thai FDA Quality Award Included in CDP Climate
Best Companies for Working Dads for the 2nd consecutive year Change A list
Received CDP Water Security
A- rating
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s National Top 100 List of the Ranked #3 on the 2018 Access to
largest green power users from the Green Power Partnership Medicine Index
#8 on Drucker Institute's Recognized as a trendsetter by the Center of
Recognized as CDP Supplier
Management Top 250 ranking Political Accountability’s 2018 CPA-Zicklin Index of
Engagement Leader 2018
(the best-run U.S. companies of 2018) Corporate Political Disclosure and Accountability
#1 in the pharmaceutical category of
FORTUNE Magazine's "World's Most FORBES The World's Most 2018 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's
Admired Companies" Reputable Companies For Corporate SmartWay Excellence Award Winner
Responsibility 2018
for the 6th consecutive year2018 Health for Humanity Report 12
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Our Approach
At Johnson & Johnson, we blend heart, science and ingenuity
to profoundly change the trajectory of health for humanity. This
aspiration includes positively impacting patients and all others
who use our products, as well as the health of our employees,
our communities and the planet. We seek to provide solutions for
some of the world’s most pressing global public health challenges
and work collectively—within our walls and externally with
partners—to advance better health for all. Our citizenship and
sustainability approach is inextricably linked to our vision of a
world where a healthy mind, body and environment are within
reach for everyone, everywhere. It's based on:
• Continuing to raise the bar for ourselves by setting five-year
public commitments to both improve our performance and
demonstrate leadership across environmental, social and
economic topics relevant to our business;
• Measuring our progress against public commitments and
reporting it externally;
• Continuing to strengthen our governance of citizenship and
sustainability activities across the Enterprise;
• Conducting periodic Priority Topics Assessments to ensure
that in the ever-changing business environment we prioritize
and focus on issues that are relevant to our stakeholders and
can impact our business;
• Engaging with our stakeholders to understand and address
their views and expectations.2018 Health for Humanity Report 13
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Health for Humanity Strategy & Progress
J&J-1, J&J-2, J&J-4
We focus our citizenship and sustainability efforts where we
believe Johnson & Johnson can achieve the greatest impact
by leveraging the power of our people, expertise, and global
partnerships.
More
Our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals are aligned with Resources
our Company’s purpose and reflect the areas where our
stakeholders expect us to lead. We believe that achieving
these Goals is integral to Johnson & Johnson’s long-term Visit our Sustainable
success, and we consider them to be the Key Performance Development Goals webpage
Indicators of our citizenship and sustainability approach.
Johnson & Johnson is also committed to supporting
implementation of the United Nations Sustainable
View our Health for Humanity
Development Goals though both our Health for Humanity
2020 Goals
2020 Goals and our UN SDG commitments, and a separate
set of commitments across five key issue areas where we
are uniquely positioned to create sustainable and scalable
impact.
We report out our progress annually. Progress against
our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and our UN SDG
commitments, and all associated data presented in
the Scorecards, were independently assured by ERM
Certification & Verification Services (ERM CVS).2018 Health for Humanity Report 14
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Health for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress Scorecard
The following Scorecard provides an update on progress we have made against our 2020 Goals.
Achieved
On track: expected to meet the Goal by 2020
In progress: so far progressing more slowly than expected; plans are in place to meet the Goal by 2020
Off track: not progressing as expected; currently at risk of not meeting the Goal by 2020
Goal 2020 Target Progress Made in 2016-2018 Notable Status
1. Develop and Expand the database documenting the Data from the expanded patient database Achieved
deliver innovative, effectiveness, efficacy and safety profile of allowed for publication on effectiveness,
lifechanging bedaquiline (SIRTURO) through collaborative efficacy and safety of SIRTURO in two peer-
solutions to address efforts to further increase access. reviewed journals.
the world’s major
health challenges.
Collaborate on Phase 3 trials and make Positive topline results available for two Phase On track
regulatory submissions for rilpivirine LA, the 3 clinical trials of the all-injectable regimen
first all-injectable depot regimen for HIV. (cabotegravir LA from ViiV Healthcare and
EDURANT [rilpivirine] LA from Janssen).
2. Deliver innovative Produce and donate 1 billion doses of 592 million doses of VERMOX donated in 30 Cumulatively 1.4 billion doses of VERMOX donated since 2006. On track
healthcare access VERMOX (mebendazole) to treat >100 million countries with 304.6 million** children having
and training children per year at risk for intestinal worms. been targeted for treatment.
programs that
impact a billion
Deliver HIV/AIDS therapy access to a 50,980 adult patients and 523 pediatric patients • The estimates of the number of patients receiving access are In progress
lives in underserved
cumulative 130,000 adults and 5,000 received access to HIV/AIDS therapy with the based on the best available therapy access models developed
areas.*
children. branded and generic versions of PREZISTA, by our Global Public Health Access team in collaboration with
INTELENCE and EDURANT.*** an external partner.
• While we expect our pediatric numbers to increase over
the next two years based on our access activities and
the addition of more countries to the New Horizons
Collaborative, treating HIV in pediatric and adolescents still
has considerable challenges, including: lack of viral load
monitoring, limited access to genotypic tests, and limited
patient identification data. For these reasons, we predict that
we are at risk of not achieving our pediatric target.
* “Underserved” refers to populations that are disadvantaged because of ability to pay, ability to access care, ability to access comprehensive healthcare, or other disparities for reasons of race, religion, language group or social status.
** Progress on the number of children targeted in 2018 was slightly lower than projected due to a delay in receiving country orders to ship product. We expect our 2019 total to be higher as a result.
*** We revised our calculation methodology to increase accuracy and now report on a 12-month rolling average, which includes a 1.25% wastage and 75% adherence factor.2018 Health for Humanity Report 15
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Goal 2020 Target Progress Made in 2016-2018 Notable Status
Deliver access to MDR-TB therapy to a 75,869 patients received access to MDR-TB • We enabled access to SIRTURO in all 30 high-burden MDR- On track
cumulative 200,000 patients, potentially therapy with SIRTURO (bedaquiline). TB countries.
curing* 157,000 people** with MDR-TB of the
• Based on our global bedaquiline uptake forecast models, built
disease. For 6,959 patients provided access in 2016, an
upon publicly available WHO individual treatment numbers,
estimated 6,110** have been potentially cured,
we predict a non-linear rate of growth in bedaquiline use in
based on the 87.8% cure rate.*
the next years.
Together with partners, train 30,000 skilled Together with partners, trained 58,665 birth On track
birth attendants to assist 6 million births. attendants, who assisted in 3,046,240 births.
Support the delivery of 6 million eye care In partnership with Lions Club International, Progress in 2018 is estimated based on delivery of eye screenings On track
screenings to underserved children and supported delivery of 7.9 million eye care and corrective treatments (spectacles) in 2017. Actual 2018 data
corrective treatments (spectacles) as needed screenings and 73,018 corrective treatments becomes available after our report data collection cut-off date.
to 100,000 underserved children. (spectacles) to underserved children.
3. Collaborate with Activate signature partnerships/initiatives STAYFREE activated the partnership with On track
government, for five of our largest Consumer brands to UNICEF to improve menstrual health and
nonprofit and private promote the health and well-being of people hygiene management among adolescent girls in
sector to foster new in need around the world. three additional states in India. In prior years we
models of health that activated partnerships with JOHNSON'S and
improve economic LISTERINE.
wellbeing and
healthcare in key
Drive policy thought leadership and strategic • More than 700 engagements conducted with The pilot project on supporting financing models through private On track
emerging markets.
engagements to expand healthcare access government officials and other partners in health insurance in Thailand was completed in 2018.
and coverage in at least three emerging Brazil, Mexico, Philippines, Russia and Rwanda.
markets (including Brazil, China and India),
• Existing pilot projects in Brazil, China, Mexico,
and lead three to five pilots to demonstrate
Philippines and Russia are ongoing. New pilots
the results of these efforts.
launched in Colombia, Indonesia, Philippines
and Rwanda.
* The updated cure rate is 87.8% for patients treated with bedaquiline containing regimens, based on The Lancet Respiratory Medicine, Volume 392, September 2018, Pages 821-834.
** As communicated through the product label, SIRTURO is taken for six months as part of a combination therapy with multiple other drugs; in total, a patient often requires up to two years of treatment to be cured.2018 Health for Humanity Report 16
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Goal 2020 Target Progress Made in 2016-2018 Notable Status
4. Fully integrate New and existing products representing 20% New and existing products representing 19.6% On track
sustainable design of Johnson & Johnson revenue achieved of Johnson & Johnson revenue achieved
solutions into our EARTHWARDS recognition for sustainable EARTHWARDS recognition.*
product innovation innovation improvements.
processes.
Increase the recyclability of our Consumer Continued recycling-related partnerships to These include: partnerships with two waste cooperatives in On track
product packaging to 90+% (on a weight advance development of recycling infrastructure Brazil; a partnership with a waste cooperative in India; and a
basis) via design and partnerships in five in Brazil, India and Vietnam. partnership with an environmental NGO in Vietnam.
key markets where mature recycling
infrastructure exists (Canada, France,
Germany, UK and U.S.).** In three other
markets where recycling infrastructure is less
mature engage in partnerships to advance
material recovery and recycling efforts.
5. Reduce our impacts Reduce absolute carbon emissions 20% by CO 2 emissions decreased by 26% globally since On track
on climate and water 2020, and 80% by 2050. 2010 (Scope 1 and Scope 2).
resources.
Produce/procure 35% of electricity from 31% of total electricity consumption generated On track
renewable sources by 2020; aspire to power from renewable sources.
all facilities with renewable energy by 2050.
Conduct a comprehensive water risk 69% of all high-risk sites identified in water 100% of the manufacturing/R&D locations completed the On track
assessment at 100% of manufacturing/R&D risk assessment process developed mitigation comprehensive water risk assessment in 2016. Newly acquired
locations and implement resource protection plans and have budget allocated to start sites are assessed within three full calendar years post-
plans at the high-risk sites. implementation in 2019. acquisition.
* Percentage not inclusive of products newly recognized in 2018.
** In 2018 Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc. signed the New Plastics Economy Global Commitment. By joining this global multi-stakeholder initiative, we set a new ambitious 2025 plastics packaging commitment, which supersedes
our 2020 target. Progress against the new 2025 commitment will be reported in another section of this Report starting in 2020. We will continue reporting our progress on helping advance material recovery and recycling efforts in less
mature markets in this Scorecard.2018 Health for Humanity Report 17
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Goal 2020 Target Progress Made in 2016-2018 Notable Status
6. Collaborate with Enroll suppliers covering 80% of our spend* in Enrolled suppliers covering approximately On track
our suppliers our Sustainable Procurement Program. 61% of spend in our Sustainable Procurement
to accelerate Program.
environmental and
social improvements
Consistently achieve benchmark spending • Exceeded benchmark diverse supplier The 13 countries outside the U.S. where we have started diverse On track
across the value
with U.S. diverse suppliers and small spending at 9.7% and benchmark small supplier tracking are: Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China,
chain.
suppliers, and double the number of supplier spending at 18.9% of total U.S. Colombia, Germany, Japan, Mexico, South Africa, Spain,
countries with established supplier diversity spend. Switzerland and UK.
and inclusion programs.**
• Expanded our supplier diversity and inclusion
programs to one additional country (Japan)
for a total of 13 countries against the baseline
of six.
7. Empower and Empower and engage employees • 50,200 employees completed ENERGY FOR 77,732 employees have completed the principles of ENERGY On track
engage the toward a “personal best” in health and PERFORMANCE training. FOR PERFOMANCE training since the start of the program,
Johnson & Johnson wellbeing via: training of at least 100,000 representing 77.7% progress against our 2020 target of training
• 96,753 employees engaged in health and
family of employees employees in the principles of ENERGY 100,000 employees.
wellbeing via the use of digital health tools
to become the FOR PERFORMANCE***; connecting at
since 2016.
healthiest workforce. least 100,000 employees to their health via
innovative digital health tools; and providing • 117,132 and 121,446 employees provided
access to at least 100,000 employees to both access to 70% implemented healthy eating
fully implemented**** healthy eating and fully and healthy movement cultures, respectively.
implemented healthy movement cultures.
* Based on spend data from prior calendar year.
** Total spend represents addressable spend, i.e., products and services that procurement teams can negotiate with suppliers to meet business goals.
*** We count our 28,000 active employees who completed ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE training prior to January 1, 2016, towards progress against this target.
**** Defined as 100% implementation of policies, programs and practices for both healthy eating and healthy movement.2018 Health for Humanity Report 18
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
UN Sustainable Development Goals Progress Scorecard
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a global framework for progress toward a more sustainable future. In trying to determine
the unique impact Johnson & Johnson would contribute to the global community to create a healthier, more equitable world, we developed
a clear, pragmatic process to create a commitment to accelerate the SDGs that reflects our unique constellation of strengths. The Company’s
commitment is focused in five areas in which Johnson & Johnson is positioned to create sustainable and scalable impact: health workforce,
women’s and children’s health, essential surgery, global disease challenges, and environmental health.
We seek to mobilize and inspire employees, consumers, communities, and our global network to improve health globally. While we aim
to achieve outcomes in all of the Company’s s work, the identified targets for the SDG commitment are reflective of the Company’s reach
The Company’s SDG commitment focuses
— individuals whose lives may benefit from our combined efforts with our partners. To that end, we developed a measurement reporting
on SDGs 3, 5 and 17. Learn more here.
framework that involves the annual tracking of progress toward focus area targets, ensuring accountability of our work.
Achieved
On track: expected to meet the Goal by 2020
In progress: so far progressing more slowly than expected; plans are in place to meet the Goal by 2020
Off track: not progressing as expected; currently at risk of not meeting the Goal by 2020
Aspiration 5-Year Target (2016-2020) Progress for 2016-2018 implementation years Notable Status
1. Health Workforce: A 650,000 health workers will have 324,900 healthcare providers (50% of overall goal Recipients of leadership training, skills training, and In progress
world where the current received training to better deliver quality achieved). education programs focused on health workforce
and future healthcare healthcare. development - including China Neonatal Resuscitation
workforce has the Program, NurseConnect, mothers2mothers, North Star
necessary competencies Alliance, Uganda Academy for Health Innovation and
to deliver high quality Impact, and Management Development Institute.
healthcare.
Learn more
2. Women’s & Children’s 60 million women and children will have 33.6 million women and children (56% of overall Programs including MomConnect, mMitra, Grameen In progress
Health: A world where received support and tools to enable a goal achieved). Foundation, War on Worms, Born On Time, DREAMS
every woman and child healthy future. Thina Abantu Abasha, and projects on CARINGCROWD
survives and has the provide access to quality care, optimal development, and
opportunity for a healthy gender equality and empowerment.
future.
Learn more2018 Health for Humanity Report 19
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Aspiration 5-Year Target (2016-2020) Progress for 2016-2018 implementation years Notable Status
3. Essential Surgery: 50 million people will have had access to 37.6 million beneficiaries (75% of overall goal Over the past three years, the Medical and Surgical On track
A world where safe, safe, essential, and timely surgical care. achieved). Skills Institute trained more than 21,000 healthcare
essential and timely professionals from 9 countries in West Africa. It is
surgical care can be estimated that these trained individuals will serve over 37
accessed by all to save million patients.
lives, prevent disability,
promote economic Learn more
growth, and reduce social
marginalization.
4. Global Disease 175 million individuals will have benefited 306 million beneficiaries (175% of overall goal Johnson & Johnson's VERMOX (mebendazole) Donation Achieved
Challenges: A world from Johnson & Johnson solutions that achieved). Program was the primary driver for exceeding this goal early,
where innovations and prevent, control and eliminate global with an estimated 304.6 million school-aged children in 30
holistic health solutions diseases. countries having received VERMOX treatments.
prevent, control
An estimated 50,900 adult patients and 520 child patients
and eliminate global
received access to HIV/AIDS therapy.
disease challenges and
epidemics. Since 2016, enabled access to SIRTURO (bedaquiline) in all
30 high MDR-TB burden countries, and delivered access to
over 75,800 patients.
Learn more
5. Environmental Health: 60 million citizens living across 30 cities 13 million citizens impacted through 2018. Cities: Amman, Jordan; Athens, Greece; Auckland, New In progress
A world where all people will have benefited from climate and air Zealand; Barcelona, Spain; Bogota, Colombia; Chengdu,
25 cities in program have been trained and have
have healthy places to quality actions that have the potential to committed to implementing at least one climate China; Chennai, India; Dar es Salaam, Tanzania; Dubai,
positively impact public health. UAE; Durban, South Africa; Hanoi, Vietnam; Ho Chi Minh
live, work and play. action relating to air pollution improvements and
City, Vietnam; Jakarta, Indonesia; Johannesburg, South
health co-benefits.
Africa; Karachi, Pakistan; Medellin, Colombia; Mexico
5 cities have already significantly implemented City, Mexico; Nairobi, Kenya; Paris, France; Quezon
actions: Dar es Salaam, Durban, Medellin, Quezon City, Philippines; Quito, Ecuador; Salvador, El Salvador;
City and Venice. Santiago, Chile; Rome, Italy; Venice, Italy.
1 “demonstrator” city (Los Angeles) is
Learn more
undertaking multiple climate actions. Expert hired
with Johnson & Johnson funding to plan/implement
actions.2018 Health for Humanity Report 20
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Challenges of reporting and assuring progress against the we do not always report unique individuals reached. For Global Disease Challenges
SDG goals example, in a program such as NurseConnect, which provides
When it comes to quantifying the progress against this goal,
information and support to nurses via mobile messages, a
Collaboration is at the heart of the SDGs—these ambitious a large part of the data comes from the number of VERMOX
nurse subscribing and participating in the service in 2016 will
goals cannot be achieved by one party alone but involve doses donated, measured through the number of doses
be counted as a beneficiary in each subsequent year for the
governments, business and communities working together to shipped. Historical data shows that about 80% – 90% of the
length of time that he or she remains with the program (i.e.
achieve significant sustainability impacts and improvements children targeted for treatment in endemic countries receive
until unsubscribing). Every year, this nurse will benefit from
to peoples’ lives. We believe our commitment to partnership two treatments each year. We thus have used a factorial of 1.6
new messages, based on research, evidence and content
and collaboration helps us to achieve extraordinary results – 1.8 to estimate the number of children treated each year. The
development. We also do not have 100% reporting as some
even though quantifying impacts and benefits across many number of children treated estimated for 2016 was based on
data come in after organizational publication deadlines, which
partnerships is complex. the factorial of 1.6. For 2017 and 2018 the figure is based on the
means we may have some undercounting. To remedy this, we
factorial of 1.8.
We have therefore reported and sought assurance on the have reduced the amount of time the partners have to report
progress against the 5-year targets which support our SDG post project completion. Still, due to their own organizational
Environmental Health
goals. We have reported on progress based on the best processes and difficulties obtaining timely data from remote
information we have available, from our operations and those areas in some cases, some partners report after our auditing Success in achieving the desired impact for this goal depends
of our partners. However, we recognize that due to the nature deadline. In order to capture the full range of our reach, we are on C40 city members initiating climate actions before 2020.
of the projects supporting the targets, the data are subject to updating our results for 2016 and 2017 with data reported past In order to achieve the scale of impact, actions need to be
limitations including estimates, extrapolations and reliance on the auditing deadline for those years. ambitious and, therefore, take time to develop and implement.
data and information provided by a broad range of partners C40 is working with the current administrations of their city
that we work with to achieve these goals. For certain goals, Essential Surgery members to support their planned actions, however there
assumptions are used that could result in an overstatement is always a risk that actions do not get implemented due to
A large part of the data and progress for this goal comes from
or understatement of lives benefited when trying to quantify changes in wider city circumstances (e.g. political or funding
the work we undertake with The Medical and Surgical Skills
performance in challenging environments. We summarize changes). We will aim to manage this risk by focusing on
Institute (MSSI) in Ghana. The MSSI reports the numbers,
below some key information to provide our stakeholders ambitious actions with larger scale impact spread across a
nationalities and disciplines of medical professionals that
with some insight into the challenges of reporting SDG goal number of cities, conducting careful vetting of proposed
complete each MSSI course. However, estimating the
performance. projects and making city participation as easy as possible.
number of patients benefiting from the skills and knowledge
obtained in a course requires the use of estimates and When the Environmental Health goal was established in late
Health Workforce, Women’s and Children’s Health extrapolations to account for the number of patients treated 2016, a qualifier was placed on the original target of 100 million
Many of our programs are co-funded, and while we per week, potential duplicate visits (e.g., same patient citizens living across 30 cities. As we noted at the time, those
make every effort to only report beneficiaries/healthcare being seen by a doctor and a nurse trained by MSSI), and potential figures were to be revised once cities and actions
professionals reached by our portion of the program, the retention time for the knowledge gained. We have used were confirmed with C40 Cities. In 2018, these details were
sometimes that is not possible. We do not have a direct line of conservative estimates for knowledge retention (1 year) and confirmed and the number of potential citizens benefiting was
sight to the data collection processes, as the data are gathered have not included the potential for the multiplier effect of revised to 60 million over the five-year goal.
by our partners on the ground. Some of our partners have data the “train-the-trainer,” where trained medical professionals
quality assurance protocols, but some do not. For the purposes go on to train others. This year we have worked with MSSI
of our reporting, we assume each pregnant woman bears to revise their feedback forms to include some validation of
one infant—we do not use an estimation factor to discount the assumptions of patients treated per healthcare worker
for stillbirths or add for multiple births. For our goals, we trained. This validation will continue into 2019 and the results
count the number of individuals reached per year, aggregated will be reflected in future reporting.
over five years, which means that for multi-year programs2018 Health for Humanity Report 21
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Sustainability Governance
GRI 102-19, 102-20, 102-29
Starting at the Board of Directors level, the governance impact, ESG issues. The EGC has a formalized process and The Enterprise Governance Council Working Group
of citizenship and sustainability at Johnson & Johnson protocols for this governing body, including the quarterly (EGCWG) is the cross-functional “activation arm” of the
encompasses our three business segments (Consumer, assessment of an ESG priority topics scorecard, proprietary EGC. The EGCWG is comprised of key enterprise functions
Medical Devices and Pharmaceutical) as well as global reputational research on our identified ESG priority topics, and draws on the expertise of various subject matter experts
enterprise functions. The Science, Technology & and ongoing elevation of topics for further review and across the Company, consulting with external advisors for
Sustainability Committee (STSC) has general assessment. This process is informed by our Enterprise Risk additional specialized insight, as needed, to drive actions
oversight of our sustainability activities. Along with our Management (ERM) Framework, which assists the EGC, identified by the EGC. This diverse working group met
Johnson & Johnson Executive Committee, the STSC reviews management teams and the Board of Directors in identifying four times in 2018 to review the status of key projects and
annual progress against our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, potential business risks. For more information, please see emerging ESG topics and issues identified through our
initiatives being advanced by the Enterprise Governance our Enterprise Risk Management Framework. Further, ESG proprietary global intelligence system that analyzes which
Council, and our overall citizenship and sustainability efforts. priority topics are integrated into the ongoing standardized stakeholders, platforms and programs have the most impact
Select members of the Executive Committee review the approach to risk assessments across the Enterprise by risk on reputation. The EGCWG has accountability for tracking
Health for Humanity Report. functions with management, which ensures a clear and and managing the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, UN
consistent view of existing and emerging risk, identifies SDG commitments, and our Health for Humanity Report,
Our office of Corporate Governance is responsible for controls, and enables mitigations to be established to address and works proactively across the Enterprise to foster
raising visibility to citizenship and sustainability issues and those risks. The outcomes of these assessments are reflected engagement around goal progress and commitments.
activities that span multiple groups across the Enterprise, in the progress updates shared as part of the ESG priority
and for facilitating connections between teams and topics scorecard reviews by the EGC. In addition to people across the Enterprise with formal job
departments around governance of environment, social responsibilities related to citizenship and sustainability,
and governance (ESG) topics. In partnership with our In 2018, the EGC led initiatives to further embed governance thousands of employees around the globe support the
Environmental Health, Safety & Sustainability, Global processes around key ways in which we work across the implementation of our strategic citizenship and sustainability
Public Health, Global Community Impact and Sustainable Enterprise, helping to improve our corporate culture and initiatives in their everyday work and help us make steady
Procurement teams, Corporate Governance connects and connectivity. In addition, the EGC kicked off work to refresh progress toward our bold vision of changing the trajectory of
aligns various activities that contribute to advancing our the Company’s ESG priority topics and establish an Enterprise health for humanity.
citizenship and sustainability agenda. Human Rights Working Group. The EGC continues to drive
increased preparedness for ESG issues management, and
To enhance our corporate governance structure, in early fosters alignment and coordination of internal and external
2016 we established the Johnson & Johnson Enterprise engagement efforts on these issues. Another important
Governance Council (EGC). The EGC is comprised of senior function of the EGC is to review and support progress against
leaders who represent our three business segments and our our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and United Nations
global enterprise functions with line of sight to, and ability to Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDG) commitments.2018 Health for Humanity Report 22
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Priority Topics Assessment
Stakeholder expectations and the business environment in which
we operate constantly evolve. Our Priority Topics Assessment
(PTA) process helps us identify and prioritize the environmental,
social and governance (ESG) topics that matter most to our
stakeholders and our Company. The results inform and shape our
sustainability priorities and reporting. We have been conducting
PTAs every two to three years since 2008, with our most recent
assessment conducted in 2016. The stakeholder feedback from that
2016 assessment continues to inform our reporting for this Report
reflecting 2018. A detailed description of the 2016 PTA process,
methodology, and definitions of topics be can found here.
For this Report we grouped our priority topics into four main sections,
as shown in the Priority Topics Assessment grid on the right:
Importance to Stakeholders
tcapmI
latnemnorivnE
,cimonocE
,laicoS
rof
laitnetoP
Lower Higher
rehgiH
rewoL
Setting Priorities
GRI 102-47
PQSR
Ethics &
Compliance
Access &
Affordability
Innovation
Global Public Health
Workplace Safety
Ingredients
Community Impact &
Procurement & Development*
Supplier Management
Human Rights
Data Protection & Privacy
Counterfeiting & Illicit Trade Diverse & Inclusive Workforce
Better Health for All
Product
Our People Stewardship
Corporate Healthy Workforce
Responsible Business Practices Climate & Governance
Energy
Environmental Health
Human Capital
Development
Product End of Life
Certain priority topics are reflected in multiple sections because of
Waste
the their cross-cutting nature.
Economic Performance*
To see how our Priority Topics map to the Global Reporting Initiative Compensation &
Standards, please see this table. Remuneration Water
Biodiversity
*Market Presence and Indirect Economic Development are reported as part of Economic Performance and
Community Impact & Development, respectively.2018 Health for Humanity Report 23
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Engaging with Our Stakeholders
GRI 102-12, 102-13, 102-21, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44
As a global healthcare company, we interact with numerous In determining with whom to engage with respect to We also partnered with Business for Social Responsibility
stakeholder groups at the global, national and local levels. environment, social and governance topics, we take into (BSR), a global nonprofit organization focused on
Our Credo, written 75 years ago, acknowledges the diversity consideration a variety of factors, including: corporate sustainability, on a formalized stakeholder
of stakeholders to whom we are responsible, and serves as feedback initiative. BSR solicited reactions and insights on the
our guide. Such engagement helps us learn about emerging • Alignment of our goals and values with those of the 2017 Health for Humanity Report content from a broad base
stakeholder group;
sustainability topics while supporting Johnson & Johnson in of stakeholders reflecting global public health institutions,
creating long-term value for our Company and society. • Ability to improve human health, social, environmental investors, NGOs, and environmental leaders. Their guidance
and other outcomes because of this engagement; and feedback have been integrated into the 2018 Health for
The deep and longstanding relationships we cultivate with • Opportunity for mutual learning. Humanity Report. In addition, this stakeholder feedback has
our stakeholders are vital to both our Credo-driven business been integrated into business and functional group strategies
strategies and our citizenship and sustainability approach. Throughout 2018, members of our management team met across the Enterprise, and the important insights will inform
Our broad and consistent stakeholder engagement is with a significant number of our shareholders to discuss our our 2019 Priority Topics Assessment and Health for Humanity
essential to building successful business strategies and Health for Humanity sustainability approach. This includes 2025 goal setting.
achieving our goal to deliver the best products and services our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and other citizenship
possible. and sustainability commitments, as well as transparency Stakeholder Engagement on This Report
around key environmental, social and governance measures. Various internal stakeholders across Johnson & Johnson's
Stakeholder engagement occurs at all levels of the
We hosted our first Health for Humanity Report webinar with global teams provided their input into this Report. The final
Company, and information gained through these
investors to accompany the release of our annual Health for content has been reviewed by the members of the
interactions is communicated through line management
Humanity Report, providing shareholders the opportunity to Executive Committee.
and, as appropriate, to senior management, including
engage and ask questions of leaders in Investor Relations,
the Johnson & Johnson Executive Committee and Board
Product Quality & Compliance, Medical Safety, Global Public
of Directors. The goal of our decentralized approach is
Health and Environmental Health, Safety and Sustainability.
to connect our stakeholders with the most appropriate
internal resources to address their needs and concerns, To ensure we’re always investing for the future, we’re
which benefits both our business and our stakeholders. As participating in important initiatives like the Embankment
necessary to ensure consistency of approach, for broad- Project for Inclusive Capitalism, CECP’s Strategic Investor
based stakeholder engagements we leverage a customer Initiative and the Business Roundtable. With these expert
relationship management system to provide visibility and partners, we’re helping to shift the conversation in the
management across the Enterprise. financial markets toward a long-term view and measurement
of the value to society that a business like ours creates.2018 Health for Humanity Report 24
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Our Stakeholders
Stakeholder Group Methods of Engagement Issues
Advocacy Groups/Trade Organizational memberships, direct engagement, dialogue, sponsorships, conferences, Product quality, safety and reliability, ethical business practices and performance, access to and
Associations research efforts affordability of medicines, global public health, community engagement and impact, product innovation,
diversity, responsible sourcing, ingredient issues, workplace safety
Consumers Dedicated 24-hour, 7-days-a-week toll-free hotline in 23 languages, Johnson & Johnson Product quality, safety and reliability, proper product use, access to our products, materials/ingredients in
website, brand websites, social media, focus groups, clinical trials our products, data protection and privacy, socially beneficial products, proper disposal of products, ethical
behavior and performance
Customers Direct contact through sales, customer relationship managers, customer call centers, Product quality, safety and reliability, sales and distributions, supply and demand for products, ethical
customer meetings, industry trade groups/meetings business practices, data protection and privacy, issues related to products, packaging, product end of life,
pricing, manufacturing processes
Employees Our Credo survey, intranets, newsletters, company webcasts, town hall meetings, Ethical business practices, business performance, sustainable innovation, workplace health and safety,
quarterly business updates, training sessions, anonymous 24-hour, 7-days-a-week toll- human capital development, diversity and inclusion, human rights, access to and affordability of medicines,
free hotline in 23 languages data protection and privacy
Government/Policy Makers Governmental affairs liaisons, direct engagement, Johnson & Johnson Political Action Compliance with regulations, ethical business practices, research and development activities, innovation in
Committee, meetings, advocacy healthcare, pricing, access, policy positions, marketing practices
Healthcare Providers Sales representatives, continuing medical education liaisons, education initiatives, Product quality, safety and reliability, workplace health and safety, human rights, ethical business practices,
clinical researchers, advisory boards, support and education programs for caregivers product pricing and availability, access to and affordability of medicines, employee health and wellness,
human capital development
Socially Responsible Investors Annual report, annual sustainability report, annual shareholders meeting, investor Product quality, safety and reliability, workplace health and safety, human rights, ethical business practices,
releases, quarterly earnings, road shows, completion of surveys, Johnson & Johnson product pricing and availability, access to and affordability of medicines, employee health and wellness,
website, conferences, dialogue, direct engagement human capital development
Local Communities Direct local engagement, philanthropic efforts, employee volunteers, sponsorships, Environmental issues, site expansions or closures, employment, transportation, safety and health issues,
collaborative partnerships emergency planning, local community issues, volunteer efforts
NGOs Direct engagement, dialogue, collaborative partnerships, sponsorships, organizational Diverse organizations with interests across all areas of our business
memberships, conferences, social media
Quasi-Governmental Direct engagement, collaborative partnerships, face-to-face meetings, research, Product quality, safety and reliability, studying/addressing health issues, ethical business practices
Organizations/Academic academic studies
Institutions
Suppliers Direct engagement, collaborative partnerships, Responsibility Standards for Suppliers, Product quality, safety and reliability, ethical business practices, procurement practices, workplace health
outreach by category leaders, supplier scorecards, face-to-face meetings, trainings and and safety, environmental and sustainability practices, human rights in the workplace, data protection and
workshops, supplier diversity initiatives, surveys, assessments and audits privacy, product innovation, diversity and inclusion2018 Health for Humanity Report 25
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Memberships
We participate in several non-governmental and advocacy organizations and industry associations on topics of interest and
priority to the Company. Select memberships and associations include:
• Advanced Medical Technology Association • Consumer Goods Forum • National Health Council
• Asia Pacific Medical Technology Association • Consumer Healthcare Products Association • New Horizons Collaborative
• Association for the Advancement of Medical • Corporate Eco Forum • New York University School of Medicine
Instrumentation
• Cosmetics Europe • Personal Care Products Council
• Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
• Council of Supply Chain Manufacturing Professionals • Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America
• Biotechnology Industry Organization
• Embankment Project for Inclusive Capitalism • Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative
• BIO Ventures for Global Health
• European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and • The Conference Board
• Business Roundtable Associations
• The Sustainability Consortium
• California Healthcare Institute • GS1
• United Nations
• CDP (formerly titled Carbon Disclosure Project) • Harvard Medical School
• United Nations Global Compact
• Chief Executives for Corporate Purpose (CECP) Strategic • Healthcare Businesswomen’s Association
Investor Initiative • United States Agency for International Development
• HealthCare Institute of New Jersey
• Children Without Worms • U.S. Chamber of Commerce
• Healthcare Leadership Council
• Climate Leadership Council • United Way – local chapters
• Medtech Europe
• Closed Loop Fund • World Health Organization2018 Health for Humanity Report 26
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Better Health for All
GRI 103-2; 103-3
At Johnson & Johnson, we have made it our • Launched a new program in Rwanda to
business to advance better health. For more enable access to modern anti-psychotics
than 130 years, we have been committed for the broad population, and treated the
first person with 3-month long-acting
to improving the health of individuals,
paliperidone palmitate.
families and communities around the
world, including the most vulnerable
• Enabled access to SIRTURO in 114
and underserved populations. Today, we countries, including all 30 high
continue to invest and collaborate to help MDR-TB burden countries, provided
solve some of the most complex global access to 75 countries through the
health challenges. By harnessing Johnson bedaquiline donation program, and
& Johnson’s breadth, scale and legacy of delivered access to over 82,509
scientific innovation, we strive to live Our patients between 2012 and 2018.
Credo values and change the trajectory of
• Continued expanding access to proven
health for humanity.
interventions and developing new,
innovative tools to treat and prevent
In this section, we describe a wide range
HIV, including positive primary analysis
of strategies, approaches and initiatives
results of the two Phase 3 clinical studies
that the Johnson & Johnson Family of for a novel, long-acting injectable two-
Companies continues to progress in order drug regimen to treat HIV.
to deliver Better Health for All around
the world, addressing specific healthcare Areas of Opportunity
challenges and needs. In this Report,
• Continue to build capabilities in digital
we provide a broad overview of our health, focusing on integrated solutions
engagement and activities in each area. to improve access to medicines.
We encourage you to visit our website for
additional information. • Encourage open, candid and evidence-
based multi-stakeholder dialogue
Key Achievements in 2018 to engage the global community
on overcoming access challenges,
• Made a significant investment to
strengthening health systems and
expand the footprint and capabilities
outcomes-based financing.
of our dedicated Global Public Health
organization in Africa with fully • Strengthen measurement of health
operational regional offices, each outcomes by continuing to embed
staffed with local employees. monitoring and evaluation across all
programs.2018 Health for Humanity Report 27
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
World Without Disease
J&J-2 (GRI 103)
Addressing critical public health challenges requires bold
leadership and novel approaches. Despite tremendous progress in
medical science and technology during the last decades, significant “We recognize that our efforts to advance better
health gaps remain for many people around the globe. Emerging
health for all by establishing ecosystems of care are
new global challenges will require collective effort and partnerships
a major undertaking, and that our goals are daunting
to deliver solutions. Johnson & Johnson Global Public Health
in all respects. But we know that with our breadth,
(GPH) is the first fully dedicated organization within a healthcare
scale and long-term relationships in all facets of
company focused on combining innovative R&D, novel access
health, we are uniquely positioned to take the lead.
programs, country-based operations and advocacy. GPH aims to
We believe better health is the foundation of social ACHIEVED
ensure that treatments and technologies are available, affordable
advancement. When people are healthy, they can
and accessible for the world’s most underserved populations as we
gain an education, take care of their families and 2020 SDG Commitment Progress
work to realize a world without disease.
contribute productively to their economies; better
5-year Target: 175 million individuals
health for all means thriving communities. ”
Our GPH strategy tackles some of the world’s most pressing will have benefited from
health challenges, targeting transformational health outcomes Jaak Peeters, Global Head, Johnson & Johnson Global Johnson & Johnson solutions that
for individuals and communities. This includes aspirations to Public Health prevent, control and eliminate glob-
eliminate human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and tuberculosis al diseases.
(TB), and reduce the burden of neglected tropical diseases and
2016-2018 Progress: 306 million
non-communicable diseases alongside addressing critical issues
beneficiaries (175% of overall goal
such as mental health and the threat of drug resistance and global
achieved).
pandemics.
View Scorecard
As a global healthcare leader, Johnson & Johnson is at the forefront
of addressing the world’s most intractable diseases. In 2018, we
maintained our planned actions to reduce the burden of prominent
diseases and are on track against our published targets, advancing
better health for adults and children around the world.2018 Health for Humanity Report 28
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Making HIV History
There are currently around 37 million people globally living with
“ We are in a golden age in HIV vaccine science.
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/AIDS1 and many more are
Currently we are exploring two different active HIV
affected by the challenges remaining in the areas of prevention,
vaccine strategies as well as evaluating whether a
treatment, access and public education. The Janssen Pharmaceutical
trial using neutralizing antibodies can protect against
Companies of Johnson & Johnson (Janssen) have been on the front
HIV. In the next 4 years, we have the potential to
lines of fighting HIV for decades through the introduction of eight
change the game, and bring valuable tools to the
transformational HIV medicines, including three antiviral agents
public to protect communities from HIV.”
and five combination products developed in partnership. We are
innovating to help patients currently facing a lifetime of treatment
Professor Glenda Gray, President & CEO of the South African
through simplified, innovative regimens. Additionally, the discovery
Medical Research Council (SAMRC) and Protocol Chair of the
and development of an investigational preventive vaccine is a Imbokodo study
major part of our work. We are also engaged in early science for Expanding our world-class
a functional cure, investigating strategies to help patients achieve vaccine manufacturing
treatment-free remission. capabilities
a robust HIV antibody response in all healthy volunteers. Further,
Preventive HIV Vaccine In 2018, we opened our state-of-the-
at the 2018 HIV Research for Prevention Conference in Madrid,
art vaccines launch facility in the
In July 2018, The Lancet published initial immune response data Spain, we shared the primary analysis of immune response data
Netherlands. The facility is constructed
regarding our investigational mosaic-based preventive vaccine for a tetravalent (4-valent) version of the mosaic-based preventive for production of late-stage (Phase
regimen against HIV-1 infection. The Lancet paper provided the first vaccine against HIV-1 infection. In this Phase 1/2a study, known as 3) clinical trial supplies for Janssen’s
detailed analysis of the first results from the early-stage (Phase the TRAVERSE study, the tetravalent vaccine was well-tolerated investigational vaccines targeting HIV,
1/2a) study, known as the APPROACH study, which was conducted among HIV negative volunteers, and significantly enhanced the Respiratory Syncytial Virus, Ebola, and
among 393 healthy HIV-uninfected adults in Rwanda, South Africa, breadth of immune responses to different HIV-1 strains compared a universal influenza vaccine. Pending
Thailand, Uganda and the United States. The data generated to the trivalent version that was evaluated in APPROACH. regulatory approvals, the facility will
suggest that the vaccine regimen was well-tolerated and elicited also be ready to manufacture the first
The early findings from the APPROACH and TRAVERSE studies batches of vaccines for real-world use.
were critical in enabling us to progress to the next stage: the
first-ever large-scale efficacy study for the mosaic-based
vaccine regimen. Paul Stoffels, M.D., Vice Chair of the Executive
“ Developing a vaccine against HIV is a top priority Committee and Chief Scientific Officer, Johnson & Johnson,
and will be a critical tool to help create a world provided an update on this study—called Imbokodo—at the
without AIDS. We’re joining forces with the world’s Global Citizen Festival in New York City in September 2018, which
leading HIV researchers and global health advocates Johnson & Johnson supported as the Major Health Partner for the
to help advance our experimental vaccine. Working third consecutive year. Together with partners like the National
together, our goal is to make HIV history. ” Institutes of Health, the HIV Vaccine Trials Network, the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation and the South African Medical Research
Paul Stoffels, Vice Chair of the Executive Committee Council, among many others, Janssen is conducting this study in
and Chief Scientific Officer, Johnson & Johnson five southern African countries in an effort to identify mechanisms
to prevent the spread of HIV and lead the way to developing a
global vaccine effective against the multiple strains of the virus.2018 Health for Humanity Report 29
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Progress Towards Novel Treatment Regimen we have progressed several initiatives to broaden access to HIV
treatment, such as partnering with the U.S. President's Emergency
The development of novel medicines with extended release
Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) on two of their key platforms, IN PROGRESS
suspension for injection may reduce the impact of treatment on
DREAMS and MenStar, and expanded our capabilities to meet
people’s lives. This novel approach would signify a much-needed 2020 Goal Progress
supplies for patients who need them around the world, such as
treatment evolution for people living with HIV, moving from dosing
through the New Horizons Collaboration. Some examples are noted 50,980
365 to just 12 or even six times per year. Janssen, in collaboration
below.
with ViiV Healthcare, is investigating the potential of a long-acting
injectable treatment regimen combining long-acting rilpivirine
(Janssen) and cabotegravir (ViiV) for the treatment of HIV. Empowering youth in South Africa to reduce the spread of HIV
Girls and young women account for 74% of new HIV infections adult patients and 523 pediatric patients
In August and October 2018, Janssen and ViiV Healthcare
among adolescents in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA).2 To address this received access to HIV/AIDS therapy
announced primary findings from the two global Phase 3 trials –
growing challenge, PEPFAR, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, with the branded and generic versions of
ATLAS and FLAIR. Both ATLAS and FLAIR met criteria for non-
Girl Effect, Johnson & Johnson, ViiV, and others partnered to PREZISTA, INTELENCE and EDURANT.
inferiority of this novel monthly regimen versus standard-of-care
create DREAMS, an ambitious $385 million initiative across
daily oral regimens. The Phase 3 results from these studies show 10 countries in SSA dedicated to helping girls develop into View Scorecard
that a two-drug injectable treatment regimen may provide people
Determined, Resilient, Empowered, AIDS-free, Mentored, and Safe
living with HIV the option of managing their virus with just 12
women.
injection visits a year.
In 2018, in South Africa, we launched “DREAMS, Thina Abantu
Partnering to Make HIV History
Abasha,” a youth-led peer-to-peer initiative aimed at empowering
In addition to these advances in creating a global vaccine for HIV, youth to substantially reduce the rate of HIV infections. During
the year, we expanded the program from KwaZulu-Natal to
Gauteng, two provinces with the highest rates of HIV infection.
“Thina Abantu Abasha” is Zulu for “We the Youth” and is based on
the premise that no action of empowering the youth should take
“ Children are more prone to developing drug
place without the direct involvement of youth themselves. True
resistance to first-line therapies, and yet the
to its name, the program is an entirely youth-driven initiative. The
supply of the second-line medicines they need is
program content, design and implementation model was directed
constrained. By working together with innovator
by the Youth Leadership Team consisting of eight dynamic young
companies like Johnson & Johnson, as well as
people with a passion for youth empowerment and HIV reduction.
generic manufacturers, PEPFAR is determined to
The program, which is undertaken in collaboration with the United
address this critical gap. Because we know that if
Nations Population Fund South Africa, the Department of Health
we don’t take action now, the pediatric HIV care
Youth Program and She Conquers, focuses on empowering young
challenge will only grow. ”
people with leadership, employability and sexual and reproductive
health resources—three themes identified by youth as key
Ambassador Deborah L. Birx, M.D., U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator
empowerment drivers in preventing the spread of HIV.
and U.S. Special Representative for Global Health Diplomacy2018 Health for Humanity Report 30
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Our pledge to the MenStar Coalition Partnering to end HIV in Uganda
In 2018, we confirmed our pledge to the MenStar coalition, which In 2018, we partnered with Baylor-Uganda, a Ugandan HIV not-for-
brings together seven global founding partners to expand the profit organization, and Pepal to host The International Summit on
diagnoses and treatment of HIV infections in men, particularly in Leadership in Healthcare in Uganda. The two-day summit brought
sub-Saharan Africa. This a key way forward to breaking the cycle together national and international stakeholders, including the
of HIV transmission and ultimately ending the AIDS epidemic as a Prime Minister and State Minster for Health of Uganda, to share
public health threat by 2030. strategies for success for leadership in healthcare. The summit was
a platform to showcase and develop ideas for sustainability and the
Expanding global access to HIV treatment for children in need launch of a new leadership academy.
For nearly five years, Janssen has been working to address the needs
of this significantly underserved population in sub-Saharan Africa. In
2013, Janssen launched the New Horizons Collaborative, a first-of-
its-kind pediatric HIV treatment donation program now available
in 10 countries, to provide treatment, including child-friendly
formulations, free of charge to eligible countries able to advance
pediatric HIV treatment. Learn more about the program here.
In 2018, Janssen and PEPFAR launched a new initiative aimed at
expanding global access to HIV antiretroviral therapy (ART) for
children in in the developing world. Worldwide, approximately 1.8
million children under age 15 have HIV, and most are living in sub-
Saharan Africa.3 Only 52% of these children are on HIV treatment.4
Janssen will work to provide sustainable access to a pediatric
formulation of its medicine, darunavir (75mg).
Progress in reducing HIV risk for women
As part of our multi-year partnership with the nonprofit
International Partnership for Microbicides (IPM), IPM applied to
the European Medicines Agency for approval of their monthly
dapivirine vaginal ring that reduces the risk of HIV-1 infection in
young women, offering a discreet prevention tool for women. Read
more here.2018 Health for Humanity Report 31
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Eradicating Tuberculosis further consolidated our partnership with Pharmstandard with
a Memorandum of Understanding to enable Pharmstandard to
Tuberculosis (TB) is the world’s deadliest infectious disease. Despite manufacture and globally export bedaquiline. ON TRACK
being preventable and—with timely diagnosis and appropriate
treatment—curable, an estimated 1.6 million people die of TB every Several notable events in 2018 have begun to broaden the use of 2020 Goal Progress
year. Approximately 95% of these deaths occur in low- and middle- bedaquiline globally. In June 2018, South Africa became the first
75,869
income countries.5 country to recommend an injection-free, bedaquiline-containing
regimen for all eligible MDR-TB patients. This decision was based
Growing resistance to the most commonly used TB drugs is
on programmatic data showing reduced mortality and improved
compounding this challenge. Multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB) is a
patient outcomes for patients on bedaquiline-containing regimens.
persistent and growing threat; in fact, the World Health Organization Later in the year, the WHO issued new guidelines recommending patients received access to MDR-TB
(WHO) estimates that nearly half a million new cases of MDR-TB the use of bedaquiline as a core drug for inclusion in conventional therapy with SIRTURO (bedaquiline). For
occur worldwide each year,6 and drug-resistant TB now accounts for (long-course) regimens unless its use is contraindicated.8 6,959 patients provided access in 2016,
one third of all deaths due to antimicrobial resistance (AMR).7 an estimated 6,110 have been potentially
To enable a more rapid scale-up of bedaquiline to MDR-TB patients, cured, based on the 87.8% cure rate.
To learn more about our commitment to TB, please visit www.jnj.
Johnson & Johnson announced a not-for-profit price in July
com/tb. To read more about our AMR efforts, please visit our AMR 2018. This offer was extended to more than 130 eligible countries View Scorecard
section.
procuring through the Stop TB Partnership’s Global Drug Facility,
including all previously donation-eligible countries.
In 2012, Johnson & Johnson brought forward SIRTURO
(bedaquiline), the first novel TB antibiotic in nearly half a century.
Since then, we have partnered extensively in high-burden countries Catalyzing TB innovation
to provide access to and ensure appropriate use of our treatment In the lead-up to the first-ever UN High-Level Meeting on
and to raise awareness about TB more broadly. Tuberculosis in September 2018, Johnson & Johnson co-hosted the
landmark TB Innovation Summit with the Stop TB Partnership, the
As part of this effort, in 2015, Johnson & Johnson launched a
World Economic Forum, the United Nations Foundation, and the
four-year donation program with the U.S. Agency for International
Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria. The Summit focused on
Development (USAID) and JSC Pharmstandard, one of the leading
the urgent need for innovation—both in the lab and on the ground
Russian pharmaceutical manufacturers. We originally committed
in high-burden countries—to drive progress toward the shared
to donate 30,000 courses of bedaquiline to up to 110 eligible
goal of ending TB. Paul Stoffels, M.D., Vice Chair of the Executive
low- and middle-income countries; however, in response to high
Committee and Chief Scientific Officer, Johnson & Johnson, spoke
demand, we more than tripled our commitment. In 2018, we also
on a panel and highlighted the important role of the private sector
in driving innovation. To support the Sustainable Development Goal
target of ending TB by 2030, he also announced our comprehensive
82,509 10-year TB initiative, with the goal of saving an estimated 1.8 million
lives and preventing 12 million new infections. Through this initiative,
we will work with partners to improve detection of undiagnosed
courses of bedaquiline delivered to patients in need in
cases of TB, broaden access to bedaquiline, and accelerate R&D to
more than 114 countries between 2012 and 2018
discover next-generation TB medicines and multi-drug regiments.2018 Health for Humanity Report 32
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Expanding access in South Africa and China raise awareness of TB at the community level.
At the TB 2018 Conference in July, Johnson & Johnson
announced a landmark collaboration with South Africa aimed Ending pediatric TB in Vietnam
at scaling up access to bedaquiline by offering the medicine TB remains the leading cause of mortality among all infectious
to South Africa—and to more than 130 additional eligible diseases in Vietnam. Children are hard hit by TB, as the disease
countries—at a not-for-profit price. This commitment was is harder to detect and also progresses more rapidly in this
made in recognition of South Africa’s unparalleled leadership population. Less than 50% of children with TB in Vietnam
in the fight against MDR-TB. Earlier in 2018, South Africa receive the preventive therapy that could reduce their risk of
became the first country in the world to recommend replacing developing the active form of the disease.9
injectable drugs with bedaquiline for the treatment of MDR-TB.
Bedaquiline. To help address this public health crisis, in 2016, the global
health nonprofit PATH and Johnson & Johnson formed a
Johnson & Johnson is supporting the Chinese government in unique partnership, known as Breath for Life. The goal was to
its efforts to end TB, including by improving case detection, work with local partners to improve the detection, diagnosis
training healthcare professionals to manage TB and MDR-TB and management of TB in a heavily burdened area in Vietnam-
more effectively and, appropriately, raising awareness and Nghe An. Two years on, there are indications of progress that
reducing stigma among the public, and accelerating access to the number of pediatric TB cases detected in Nghe An and
effective treatment in collaboration with partners. the number of eligible children receiving preventive therapy
have significantly increased. Also, Breath for Life supported
Since 2016, Johnson & Johnson has been partnering with
hundreds of health workers receiving specialized training in
China’s National Health Commission (NHC), Bill & Melinda
pediatric TB detection and treatment.
Gates Foundation and the Chinese Center for Disease Control
and Prevention (China CDC) to undertake a New Drug
Introduction Program, aimed at ensuring appropriate access
to our MDR-TB treatment.
Additionally, in 2018 we launched a collaboration with the
NHC, China CDC and diagnostic manufacturer Cepheid aimed
at accelerating TB and MDR-TB patient finding in poverty-
stricken regions in China.
Advancing progress toward a TB-free India
India has the highest burden of TB and MDR-TB in the world.
Last year, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced
a bold vision for a TB-free India by 2025—also outlined
in Government of India’s National Strategic Plan for TB
Elimination. In support of this, we are collaborating with
the Government of India and other partners to tackle TB
by supporting their efforts to increase access to treatment,
improve diagnostic capacity, train healthcare providers, and2018 Health for Humanity Report 33
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Combating Neglected Tropical Diseases
1.4B+
Neglected tropical diseases (NTDs), a diverse group of ON TRACK
communicable diseases common primarily in developing countries,
cause substantial illness in more than one billion people worldwide.10 doses of mebendazole donated since 2006 2020 Goal Progress
These diseases, including dengue, roundworm and hookworm,
592
impact the poorest, most vulnerable people on the planet and M
people living in poverty are the most affected. We continue to target
We also work continuously with the WHO, Ministries of Health in
resources to combat NTDs through R&D, product donations and
endemic countries, and other partners to ensure medicines reach
partnerships. To facilitate additional research and breakthrough
children in need. For more than a decade, Johnson & Johnson has
innovation in NTDs, Janssen shares 80,000 chemical compounds doses of VERMOX donated in 30
been a lead contributor to Children Without Worms that supports
from its Jump-stARter molecular library with the global research countries with 304.6 million children
STH initiatives. Additionally, we are leading STH research initiatives
community to help collaborators accelerate treatment and having been targeted for treatment.
via partnerships with other industry, academia and NGO partners.
prevention of NTD’s, along with TB, malaria, and other diseases
common in the developing world. Through a Johnson & Johnson Foundation grant, we support the View Scorecard
War on Worms campaign in partnership with University of the
Intestinal worms: Soil-transmitted helminthiasis (STH) is among
Philippines Manila to implement school-based, teacher-assisted
the most common infections worldwide, affecting the most
deworming programs, coupled with improvements in water,
deprived communities. Approximately 1.5 billion people are infected
sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) and health promotion, trained over
worldwide, with children disproportionately at risk. According to the
12,000 health workers and benefited more than two million children
WHO, more than 800 million children live in endemic areas in need
in the Philippines. The campaign also includes the donation of the
of treatment.11
deworming medicine VERMOX.
As an original signatory of the 2012 London Declaration on
Dengue: Dengue is a viral infection transmitted by mosquito, and
Neglected Tropical Diseases, we have met our commitments of
one of the leading causes of hospitalization and death among
donating up to 200 million doses annually and developing a new
children in Asia and Latin America. Worldwide prevalence is
chewable, child-friendly formulation of VERMOX (mebendazole) to
growing, with potential for an epidemic in many countries. The WHO
treat STH. In 2018, we extended our existing donation commitment
listed dengue in the top 10 global health threats in 2019; today, more
an additional five years to donate 200 million doses annually through
than 125 countries live in fear of the next epidemic.12
2025.
The aim of our dengue program is to develop a potent, first-in-class
We also submitted a prequalification dossier to the WHO in 2018
antiviral for the prevention of dengue, both for travelers to—and
for VERMOX CHEWABLE, a new formulation of mebendazole that
vulnerable populations living in—dengue-endemic areas.
can either be chewed or mixed with a small amount of water to
form a soft mass that's easier for very young children to swallow. In 2018, we reached a significant milestone as we entered the clinical
The dossier was prequalified by the WHO in April 2019, marking development stage by starting a First in Human investigational
an important milestone in our efforts to combat STH infections in small molecule inhibitor study in October. We are partnering in this
underserved regions around the world. The VERMOX CHEWABLE is initiative with the Wellcome Trust, a global charitable foundation,
available in limited quantities this year, and in 2020 will replace the and the University of Leuven in Belgium for the development of
current solid tablet in Johnson & Johnson’s donation program, which antiviral medicines to fight dengue.
will enable us to reach one of the most vulnerable populations—
children as young as one year of age—with this critical medicine.2018 Health for Humanity Report 34
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Transforming Mental Healthcare As part of this effort, we are:
Worldwide, mental illness devastates individuals, families and • Supporting the first-ever government-initiated national mental
communities, and is a growing global public health challenge. health survey to better understand the prevalence and burden
Three-quarters of all people suffering from mental illness live in of mental health disorders in low-resource settings and further
low- and middle-income countries with fewer than one in 50 people inform policy, budgets and healthcare provider resourcing for
with severe mental illnesses in these countries receiving the delivery of high-quality mental healthcare.
evidence-based treatment.13
• Accelerating access to innovative schizophrenia medicines,
including undertaking a clinical study to determine the value
Access to care is complicated by several challenges, such as
and impact of introducing long-acting injectable treatments
insufficient data on the burden of mental illness; the lack of trained
(paliperidone palmitate).
healthcare providers; inconsistent access to care and affordable,
quality medicines; and strong social stigma associated with mental • Enabling Partners in Health through a three-year Dr. Diane Gashumba, Rwanda Minister of
illness. Treating severe mental illness, including schizophrenia, Johnson & Johnson Foundation grant to expand and scale Health with Paul Stoffels, M.D., Vice Chair
represents a significant investment for the healthcare system. up their innovative Mentoring and Enhanced Supervision of the Executive Committee and Chief
at Health Centers (MESH) model for mental health in two Scientific Officer, Johnson & Johnson.
With more than 60 years of supporting those affected by mental additional districts in Rwanda. The MESH model integrates
illness, Johnson & Johnson is committed to expanding access to mental healthcare into a community-based healthcare setting,
transformational mental health innovations to positively impact increasing the number of trained mental healthcare workers
and facilitating patient access to quality care within the
people’s lives. In August 2018, Johnson & Johnson announced a
communities where they live.
comprehensive partnership with the Rwanda Ministry of Health
to strengthen and expand access to quality mental healthcare
• Supporting the Centre for Global Mental Health, co-hosted by
in the country. Over the past 25 years, Rwanda has made the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine and King’s
significant progress in this field. Together, we aim to transform College London, to assist the development of a new generation
mental healthcare in the country through a series of innovative of mental healthcare professionals on the front lines of care in
collaborations, demonstrating that it is possible to apply an communities throughout Africa and other parts of the world.
affordable, sustainable and scalable quality care model for the
treatment of severe mental illness, specifically schizophrenia, in This is the first systematic effort to integrate mental healthcare
low- and middle-income countries. into the public primary healthcare system in Rwanda. Through
this innovative work, we aspire to change the trajectory of mental
health treatment and care in sub-Saharan Africa and beyond.
The stigma of mental illness
“ The Ministry of Health believes this partnership As a way of continuing Dr. Paul Janssen's legacy of championing
comes in due time as addressing severe mental illness science for humanity, in 2018 we launched a new initiative, The Art
is one of our priority areas in order to ensure equitable & Science of Ending Stigma About Mental Illness, with the mission
access to mental health services for those in need. ” to reduce cultural stigma of mental illness and increase awareness
of the biological basis of brain disorders. The program combines
Dr. Diane Gashumba, Honorable Minister of Health for Rwanda the transcendent nature of art in its many forms with the rationality
of science to engage the public in understanding mental illness and
how we can work together to conquer stigma.2018 Health for Humanity Report 35
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
New for treatment-resistant depression
In 2018, Janssen submitted a New Drug Application to U.S. Food
and Drug Administration (FDA) and a Marketing Authorization “ We are bringing mental health to the
Application to the European Medicines Agency seeking approval attention of the world and we’re committed to
of esketamine nasal spray for treatment-resistant depression (TRD) advancing innovation and access and
in adults. In March 2019, the U.S. FDA-approved SPRAVATO destigmatizing mental health. ”
(esketamine) CIII nasal spray for adults with TRD who have cycled
Paul Stoffels, M.D., Vice Chairman of the Executive
through multiple treatments without relief. SPRAVATO uses the
Committee and Chief Scientific Officer,
first new mechanism of action in decades to treat major depressive
Johnson & Johnson
disorder.14 15 16 Esketamine has U.S. FDA Breakthrough Therapy
Designations for treatment-resistant depression and for a second
indication, major depressive disorder with imminent risk for
suicide, which is currently in clinical development.
New for schizophrenia
In 2018, the U.S. FDA approved an expansion to the U.S. Prescribing
Information for our treatment (paliperidone palmitate) to include
real-world data demonstrating its superior effectiveness for
adults living with schizophrenia in delaying time to relapse versus
commonly prescribed oral antipsychotics. This marks an important
milestone in our work to serve the needs of our mental health
community, and enables us to engage healthcare professionals with
clear evidence of how our medicine performs in the patients they
are likely to see every day in clinical practice.2018 Health for Humanity Report 36
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Global Health Security & hemorrhagic fever. MERS first emerged in humans in Saudi Arabia
in 2012 and has since spread to infect more than 2,200 people in
Preventing Pandemics
dozens of countries, killing one in three of those it infects. Both
The global community is extremely vulnerable to infectious the Lassa and Nipah viruses cause small but serious outbreaks of
diseases with pandemic potential. In today’s hyper-connected disease in Asia and Africa, and experts say they have shown the
world, these diseases can have staggering public health and capacity to spread across borders and become fast-growing and
economic consequences. Globally, outbreaks of such diseases are potential deadly epidemics.
occurring with increasing frequency, exacerbated by globalization,
urbanization and growing resistance of pathogens to available The Johnson & Johnson Office of the Chief Medical Officer
drugs. partnered with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’
(HHS) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and
Johnson & Johnson believes that global health security is Response to develop innovative products that address the possibly
One of the first study volunteers is
everyone’s responsibility and requires coordinated effort from damaging health effects of chemical, biological, radiation and
vaccinated with the Janssen Ebola vaccine
governments, civil society and healthcare companies. Our experts nuclear threats, emerging infectious diseases, and antimicrobial
in Sierra Leone, Africa.
are working tirelessly to help prevent the next pandemic. resistant infections.
We are actively engaged in global pandemic preparedness across Ebola: Johnson & Johnson has been a leader in efforts to help
multiple disease areas. Through Janssen, we are developing new prevent Ebola outbreaks. In partnership with the National Institute
vaccines and treatments to combat a wide range of infectious of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and the Biomedical Advanced
diseases that are already pandemics, such as HIV and tuberculosis Research and Development Authority (BARDA) in the United
(TB), or that have pandemic potential, including Ebola, Zika and States, Europe’s Innovative Medicines Initiative, Bavarian Nordic
influenza. A/S and other stakeholders, we accelerated clinical testing of an
investigational two-dose Ebola vaccine regimen in development
To address other known threats and prepare for those that may
at Janssen. This led to multiple Janssen-sponsored clinical studies
emerge, we were founding members of a unique public-private
for the Ebola vaccine across Africa, Europe and the United States.
partnership, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations
Positive Phase 1 findings were published in 2017, showing that 100%
(CEPI), which now finances and coordinates the development of
of healthy volunteers receiving the vaccine regimen generated an
new vaccines to prevent and contain infectious disease epidemics.
Ebola virus-specific antibody response that was still high after one
CEPI, supported by Germany, Japan, Norway and the UK, the Bill
year following vaccination.
& Melinda Gates Foundation, Wellcome Trust and others, seeks to
give the world an insurance policy against epidemics by delivering We are closely monitoring the current Ebola outbreak in the
a pipeline of promising vaccine candidates that are tested and Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and stand ready to
ready for use as soon as a disease breaks out. mobilize our resources and expertise if we are called upon to do so.
We have maintained a significant stockpile for the express purpose
Research to prevent new epidemics of tackling such outbreaks. If deemed appropriate by the WHO or
authorities in the DRC, we will mobilize to make supplies of our
In 2018, CEPI allocated funding of $19 million to experts at Janssen
investigational vaccine available to public health authorities and the
Vaccines and The Jenner Institute at the University of Oxford to
people of the DRC.
work on the development of new vaccines against three major
diseases: the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) virus; the
brain-damaging Nipah virus; and the Lassa virus, which causes2018 Health for Humanity Report 37
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Pandemic Influenza: Because of their ease of transmission and Monash University and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical
rapid mutations, influenza viruses continue to pose a significant Medicine—and has added other compounds known to be safe and
threat to global public health. Every year, more than one billion effective to the joint program.
flu cases are reported worldwide, resulting in five million cases
of severe illness and up to 650,000 deaths globally.17 To address New collaboration with BARDA to improve health security
this challenge, we partner with many of the world’s leading
experts, policy makers, academic and clinical institutions, NGOs, In 2018, we entered into a collaboration with BARDA on a
and other pharmaceutical companies for the development of crowdsourcing initiative to develop new respiratory protection
innovative medicines and vaccines. For example, our partnership devices to protect both healthcare workers and the public,
with the BARDA part of the U.S. HHS is designed to develop a including children, in the event of a health security threat. The
comprehensive portfolio of therapeutics and vaccines to protect crowdsourcing platform selected was our JLABS incubator
communities in the event of an influenza pandemic and other QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE, which we leverage to find scientists,
infectious disease threats. companies and entrepreneurs with healthcare innovations that
could bring our research to the next level. In this partnership,
We continue to explore ways to stem the generation of new viral QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE will be the first platform of its kind in a
mutations and develop new diagnostic tools for early identification, healthcare setting, and we expect the outcome to benefit BARDA’s
while collaborating to develop an investigational single universal mission to make available medical countermeasures to address
vaccine to help protect against influenza. One development, an health security threats.
oral influenza treatment, pimodivir, began Phase 3 clinical trials in
January 2018.
Zika: The unprecedented Zika virus epidemic across the Americas
in 2016 led the WHO to declare Zika a public health emergency
of international concern. In response to the outbreak, particularly
in Brazil, Johnson & Johnson partnered with IPADS, a Brazilian
NGO, and the National Council of Municipal Health Secretaries, to
help develop ZikaLab, an initiative to train healthcare providers on
Zika, including transmission, prevention, diagnosis, treatment and
follow-up. In addition, Janssen is collaborating with the Beth Israel
Deaconess Medical Center to develop a Zika vaccine.
Malaria: We collaborate with Medicines for Malaria Venture
(MMV) to help develop better medicines to protect vulnerable
populations from malaria, including children and pregnant women.
We are combining our expertise—Janssen in long-acting injectable
formulation technology and MMV in malaria drug development—
to develop a slow release dosage form that provides protection
against malaria for up to three months with a single injection.
In 2018, the combined team began investigations with P218—a
compound with the potential to provide protection against malaria,
discovered through an MMV partnership with BIOTEC Thailand,2018 Health for Humanity Report 38
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Overcoming Antimicrobial Resistance We are working on multiple fronts to fulfill our AMR Roadmap
commitments. We currently provide 22 antimicrobial medicines
AMR Leadership
Antimicrobials, including antibiotics, are one of the greatest (including antiviral medicines) in 114 countries, of which seven are
Benchmark
discoveries in modern medicine and have been key to increasing listed on the WHO's Model List of Essential Medicines. Much of our
life expectancy. The spread of drug-resistant pathogens, known as work is focused on tackling multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-
antimicrobial resistance (AMR), is a growing public health concern. TB), given our long legacy of fighting TB. Moreover, MDR-TB alone
Overuse of antibiotics, or not using them as prescribed, contributes accounts for approximately one-third of AMR-related deaths. In 2018, the Antimicrobial Resistance
to growth of resistant bacteria, which renders antibiotics less Benchmark was published, providing
effective or ineffective. It is estimated that by 2050, AMR infections Five ways we are supporting global AMR efforts the first independent assessment of
could cause 10 million deaths annually, more than those caused by 1. Supporting work on ensuring antibiotics are being used only in how 30 of the largest pharmaceutical
cancer or diabetes today.18 patients who need them companies are responding to AMR.
Johnson & Johnson was highlighted
A comprehensive multi-partner approach is needed to address • Our education efforts for healthcare professionals include as one of the two pharmaceutical
the complex challenges of AMR. As one of the original signatories topics such as appropriate use, diagnosis, pharmacovigilance, companies leading the AMR efforts
of the Davos Declaration, in 2016, Johnson & Johnson joined the and adverse event reporting and monitoring of side effects. with the highest number of activities,
and specifically the contribution of
industry-wide call to curb development of AMR, also endorsing For example, through unrestricted educational grants, we
our work on TB was noted. To read
the Roadmap on Progress for Combating AMR in the same year. have engaged the International Union against TB and Lung
the AMR Benchmark, visit https://
We have also been active members of the AMR Industry Alliance Disease since 2014 to impart medical education programs accesstomedicinefoundation.org/amr-
(AMRIA), one of the largest private sector coalitions addressing on MDR-TB in Peru and South Africa. We also supported benchmark.
antimicrobial resistance. Through AMRIA, we have contributed to USAID training on the implementation of a Pharmacovigilance
multiple position papers and presentations, and have participated Program for TB drugs for staff from national TB programs and
in working groups. health authorities in several countries.
We recognize that there is no one-size-fits-all approach to • To support the rollout and appropriate use of bedaquiline,
addressing AMR. We welcome and support legislative changes that Johnson & Johnson provides healthcare provider training and
will streamline regulatory pathways. Additionally, we believe new maintains pharmacovigilance and surveillance activities to
incentive mechanisms are needed to remove economic barriers monitor resistance to bedaquiline and companion treatments
to support investment in AMR, such as orphan or breakthrough within the same regimen. To date, we have provided more
designations and continued use of priority review vouchers. than 82,500 courses of bedaquiline for patients in 114
countries since first approval, including nearly 39,000 in 2018
alone.
2. Improving access to existing and future antibiotics
Antimicrobial Resistance • We use mechanisms such as tiered pricing, partnerships with
Statement public health organizations, and donation programs and other
mechanisms as appropriate on a country-by-country basis
Download to help achieve broad and timely access to our medicines in
a way that is locally affordable. Examples of our initiatives
are the program to broaden access to MDR-TB therapy with
bedaquiline and our HIV medicines access program.2018 Health for Humanity Report 39
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
• One of the major drivers of AMR-related infections in the For more details, see the AMR Alliance website.
United States and Europe is hospital-acquired infections.19
Across Johnson & Johnson Medical Devices, we seek to 5. Supporting new ways for open collaboration between industry
prevent these infections through a variety of antimicrobial and and the public sector
sterilization technologies, including antibiotic-containing bone • We maintain several partnerships to advance AMR research,
cements, chlorhexidine protective disks and more. such as our initiative with the Institute of Microbial
Technology in India to help accelerate the discovery of
3. Monitoring AMR through surveillance as part of Johnson &
innovative new treatments for TB, and our agreement with
Johnson R&D efforts
the Indian Council for Medical Research to bolster clinical
• Bedaquiline is a relatively new antimicrobial agent trial capacity in India to support faster development and
but, with widespread use, resistance may emerge. The approval of TB medicines for India.
bedaquiline Drug Resistance Emergence Assessment in
MDR-TB (DREAM) is a global drug resistance surveillance
study implemented by Johnson & Johnson to assess the
emergence of resistance to bedaquiline. By mid-2018,
thousands of bacteria recovered from TB patients from 10
countries were tested; preliminary results indicate that the
prevalence of resistance to bedaquiline has remained very
low.
4. Reducing the environmental impact from the production of
antibiotics
• In 2018, we continued to assess the performance of our own
manufacturing sites and those of key external manufacturers
in controlling releases of antibiotics into the environment. We
also worked with our industry partners and the Pharmaceutical
Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) to integrate a common framework
for assessing antibiotic manufacturing operations into standard
auditing protocols. In addition, we worked with our industry
partners and independent technical experts to establish
science-driven, risk-based targets for discharge concentrations
for antibiotics.2018 Health for Humanity Report 40
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Enhancing Access to Healthcare
J&J-1 (GRI 103)
Despite remarkable achievements in science and medicine, millions Improving Access and Affordability
of people still lack access to healthcare services.20 As the world’s
To enhance and sustain broader access to our medicines and
largest healthcare company, Johnson & Johnson is committed to
devices, we pursue a wide variety of approaches appropriate
improving access to our innovative medicines, vaccines, devices
to the specific reimbursement systems and legal guidelines of
and diagnostics in all countries. Availability
different countries. Using tools such as equity-based tiered pricing
Many factors impede access to basic health services and risk and partnerships with public health organizations, we strive to
optimum health outcomes for underserved populations. In addition engage stakeholders to help achieve broad and timely access to
to the affordability of medicines, weak health infrastructure, lack our medicines in a way that is affordable locally. We believe that Appropriate Access Affordability
Use
of skilled health workforce, inadequate financing options to cover equitable tiered pricing—which considers and reflects the economic
medical needs, and insufficient regulatory capacity to run effective conditions of the country, the purchasing power of the patients, the
healthcare delivery systems all have varying impacts in different disease burden, and the specific product under consideration—can
countries. provide a fair and sustainable approach to improving access across Adoption
different markets, particularly in emerging healthcare systems.
Our approach to improving access to healthcare is embodied in
our business strategy and led with a dual focus: Janssen’s Global Improving access and affordability takes several forms, in addition
Commercial Strategy Organization leads access strategies across to pricing decisions. We maintain an advanced approach to 4 A’s of Access
the developed world, and our Global Public Health team leads sharing intellectual property to lower the price of development
access strategies in resource-limited settings. Our approach and access to medicines in relevant markets. We also promote Availability - Industry, research institutes,
includes: rapid product registration to ensure medicines can be available supply channels.
Affordability - Price level, state finance,
• Improving affordability through various mechanisms, such personal income.
as equity-based tiered pricing, value-based reimbursement Adoption - Healthcare infrastructure,
schemes, licensing agreements and product donation programs; performance & evidence-based policy.
Approriate Use - Compliance/Drug resistance
“ Johnson & Johnson has been consistently a
• Continuous innovation for better health, aimed at reducing the education & training.
leader in the last four Access to Medicine Indices,
burden of the world’s most intractable diseases;
bringing forward valuable treatments in areas
such as TB and recently addressing mental health
• Strengthening public healthcare systems around the world
in low- and middle-income countries. Its Global
through health workforce capacity building, medical education,
Public Health Unit is a model among the industry on
and improving supply chain operations; and
access planning and results for several therapeutic
• Contributing to community health through a range of initiatives areas, constantly challenging itself to do more. As
that provide support for patients in different countries. a company with a strong R&D pipeline and a global
network capable of further addressing the needs of
Johnson & Johnson is an original signatory of the BSR Guiding those in the most challenging countries, we encourage
Principles on Access to Healthcare that underscore the importance Johnson & Johnson to take even more action. ”
of reducing the global burden of disease through collaboration,
Jay Iyer, Executive Director, Access to Medicine Foundation
R&D, expanding availability of healthcare services, developing
health systems resources, and respecting human rights.2018 Health for Humanity Report 41
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
as soon as possible in different markets. In addition, we engage Partnership for access
in partnerships, training and capacity building, and several other
We are members of the Access Accelerated partnership, a first- Johnson & Johnson Ranks
initiatives to help make our medicines promptly available for those
of-its-kind global initiative addressing the rising threat of several Among Top Companies
who need them.
diseases in low- and middle-income countries. The partnership Worldwide Expanding
gathers a broad group of stakeholders, including the World Bank,
Access to Medicines
Key access initiatives the Union for International Cancer Control, and pharmaceutical
Three ongoing access initiatives reflected in our Health for companies with a shared vision of working toward the UN
Humanity 2020 Goals include: Sustainable Development Goal target to reduce premature deaths
For nearly a decade, Johnson &
from non-communicable diseases by one third by 2030. The
Johnson has ranked among the top
• Expanding access to HIV/AIDS treatment, developing the first initiative will focus on access to primary healthcare, as well as
three companies working to expand
HIV vaccine, and improving HIV diagnostics; financing, regulatory and service barriers.
global access to medicines, according
• Ensuring affordable and sustainable access to MDR-TB treatments; to the Access to Medicine Index (ATMI).
• Promoting treatments to address neglected tropical diseases. Access-driven pricing strategies The 2018 Index highlights Johnson
& Johnson’s unique global public
We carefully consider three components when pricing our medicines:
health business unit, commitment to
Enhancing access for ZYTIGA R&D for diseases of the developing
1. Value to patients, the healthcare system and society. We
Under Johnson & Johnson's Value, Access and Pricing policy, we world, and leadership in health system
consider how each medicine will improve patient health as
strengthening. Johnson & Johnson
have a commitment to ensuring timely access to our medicines in
well as the medicine’s potential to reduce other costs, such as was also highlighted as one of the two
a way that is affordable locally. Understanding that for resource-
surgeries, hospital stays or long-term care, and the improvement pharmaceutical companies leading the
limited settings, public finances for healthcare spending are often
the medicine represents over the existing standard of care. AMR efforts with the highest number of
significantly constrained, Janssen works with public payers, where
activities; specifically, the contribution
appropriate, to optimize coverage of our products in relevant 2. The importance of maintaining affordable access to of our work on TB was called out as a
disease states, including oncology. For example: Janssen has sought medicines for people who need them. We consider not just the best practice.
list price, but also the discounts and rebates we provide insurers,
to enable access for patients to ZYTIGA (abiraterone acetate) for
pharmacy benefit managers, governments, hospitals, physicians,
metastatic prostate cancer in low affordability countries through a
and other providers of care to support broad access to our
variety of pricing and access program offerings and mechanisms,
medicines.
including equity-based tiered pricing and patient access programs.
3. The importance of preserving our ability to develop future
Supporting access in the U.S.
groundbreaking cures and treatments. We have an obligation
In the United States, we provide resources to patients, caregivers to ensure that the sale of our medicines provides us with the
and healthcare providers through the Janssen CarePath program, resources necessary to invest in future R&D to address serious,
which helps patients gain and maintain access to the Janssen unmet medical needs.
medicines they are prescribed. In 2018, we helped approximately
one million patients with access, affordability and treatment
through the Janssen CarePath program, including approximately
550,000 commercially insured patients who reduced their out-of-
pocket costs through the Janssen CarePath Savings Program. For
more information, see the 2018 Janssen U.S. Transparency Report.2018 Health for Humanity Report 42
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Transparency on pricing WIPO Re:Search, the international research consortium led from an unmet public health perspective and affordability,
by the nonprofit BIO Ventures for Global Health and the which is grounded in Janssen’s Value, Access and Pricing
Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson
United Nations World Intellectual Property Organization (VAP) framework. This process aims to understand the unmet
releases an annual U.S. Transparency Report reflecting our
(WIPO), Janssen has opened segments of its molecule medical need in a market, how the compound addresses the
commitment to putting patients first, including how we invest
library—containing a set of 80,000 diverse, high-quality unmet need, relevant price comparisons, the cost burden of
our resources, price our medicines, and help people who need
chemical compounds—to the global research community to the disease, and the affordability of the medicine consistent
Janssen medicines get access to them. Read more in our section
enable collaborators to identify and advance promising drug with Gross National Income per capita. VAP is applied
on Upholding Transparency.
candidates that might have activity against NTDs, and others systematically for all Janssen R&D products.
Intellectual Property such as malaria and TB. For more information on neglected
tropical diseases, see this section. Innovating with Patient Engagement
We believe that flexible intellectual property management
Patients have always been at the center of everything
is a key element in an effective and sustainable access Accelerating Product Registration
we do. With the role of the patient changing—from a
to medicines strategy, especially in low-income and
We are committed to the timely registration of our products recipient of care to a collaborative partner—we are on a
low-to-middle-income countries. Intellectual property
to ensure early access and availability of our medicines as mission to embed the patient voice throughout our product
systems encourage innovation and allow us to invest in
well as helping strengthen the regulatory science capabilities development cycles in our Pharmaceutical and Medical
new technologies, fund R&D, and bring transformational
of local authorities to expedite product registrations, shaping Devices businesses, beginning with disease area strategies
medicines to the market. We work with international funders,
the environment to accelerate registrations in countries through clinical trial designs, product formulation and
local governments and non-governmental organizations
with limited regulatory resources. We work with the WHO product marketing. Our latest innovations are focused on
to develop approaches that benefit patients in need, while
to prequalify certain medicines as an important step toward empowering patients and addressing gaps in how healthcare
continuing to uphold the value of intellectual property in all
advancing global access. To further accelerate submissions, is delivered. In some cases, we invite patients to co-create
parts of the world. For more information, see our Intellectual
we maintain a program that assesses emerging markets’ with us by helping to modify product design.
Property Statement.
regulatory and commercialization needs during key R&D
Johnson & Johnson is a member of the Patent Information milestones, and integrates these needs into our global Using technology to improve patient engagement
Initiative for Medicines (Pat-INFORMED), a joint initiative strategies, tracking the speed of getting these products to
The Integrated Smart Trial & Engagement Platform
that aims to “promote the accessibility of patent information patients by using an integrated dashboard.
(iSTEP) is a first-of-its-kind tool that replaces paper-based
for health agencies tasked with procurement of medicines.”
The focus of our registration efforts in these countries processes with digital tools to manage medicine supply, drug
The Pat-INFORMED database seeks to link public patent
continues to be prioritized by: accountability, patient medication intake and health data.
information to registered medicines in a global online portal
iSTEP also enables personalized patient engagement during
that helps health professionals navigate the medicine- • high-burden disease prevalence;
the clinical trial. Through a smartphone app, iSTEP provides
procurement process for the benefit of patients. • immediate patients in need; reminders, dosing instructions and tutorial videos with a goal
• healthcare infrastructure; to educate patients and help them to adhere to the treatment
Sharing molecular libraries to fight neglected diseases and regimen. Plans are to utilize iSTEP across multiple Phase 2
• maturity of treatment programs;
pandemic threats and 3 trials in the 2019/2020 timeframe.
• the existence of global/multilateral programs; and
As part of the Johnson & Johnson global public health
commitment, Janssen Pharmaceutica NV (Janssen) • economic vulnerability. We also use eConsent, which uses modern technology
and multimedia components to create an interactive
has established collaboration agreements with the goal
During the development of a compound, the need for specific and engaging informed consent experience for potential
of accelerating the discovery of new treatments for
access provisions for resource-limited countries is assessed trial participants. Janssen pioneered the implementation
tuberculosis, malaria, neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) and
of eConsent in multi-country/multi-language trials, has
other diseases prevalent in the developing world. Through
helped to enable broad cross-industry adoption, and is a2018 Health for Humanity Report 43
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
key contributor to the TransCelerate BioPharma eConsent statistically relevant results—improving retention in care
initiative. The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory for women supported through the program over 18 months
Agency recently issued a statement on the use of eConsent in post-delivery.
More Resources
the UK, and Belgium has approved electronic signatures.
Promoting online health advocates
We also use technology to help those managing mental
illness, such as family members and other caregivers who In 2018, the Janssen U.S. fourth annual HEALTHEVOICES
play a critical role in the treatment process. Janssen is conference brought together 120 advocates representing Learn more about HEALTHEVOICES
conducting a unique study to determine whether caregivers more than 35 different health communities for skill-building,
might fare better if provided with individualized training and networking and empowerment. HEALTHEVOICES continues
interactive support. We participate in industry initiatives to be the only event dedicated exclusively to strengthening
and, as part of a European collaboration, we demonstrated a an increasingly prominent group of influencers: online
groundbreaking virtual reality technology, called SchizoLab, to help health advocates. HEALTHEVOICES provides resources and
people better understand what it is like to live with schizophrenia. inspiration to empower these advocates to strengthen their
and caregivers through many of the decisions they must
patient and caregiver communities.
make when faced with the disease. Guided by our mission
to provide patients and caregivers with up-to-date cancer
Improving patient adherence
5 resources and information, Cancer.com helps patients
To encourage the development of new approaches to find information they want about their disease and receive
Johnson & Johnson products are included in the improving patient adherence to treatment regimens, in 2018, tailored content related to their own cancer diagnosis.
WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal Products we created a QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE on this topic through
our JLABS innovation ecosystem. According to the Network Advancing patient engagement industry-wide
for Excellence in Health Innovation (NEHI), poor medication
For the past 15 years, EyeforPharma’s annual Patient Summit
adherence is estimated to cost more than $290 billion in
Europe has been a key event, bringing together patient
avoidable U.S. medical spending annually. Empowering
advocates and industry representatives to discuss advancing
Improving the prevention of mother-to-child HIV patients, caregivers, and providers through connected
patient engagement and advocacy across the health sector.
transmission health technology innovation is recommended by NEHI to
In 2018, more than 300 delegates attended the summit
foster patient-specific adherence solutions. The winner of
Since 2016, Janssen has been partnering with Solidarity
in London, including two keynote speakers and several
the Challenge, HealthBeacon Ltd., was awarded $75,000
and Action Against The HIV Infection in India, a non-
delegates from Johnson & Johnson.
to help scale its smart system that tracks whether patients
governmental organization working to strengthen HIV
have taken their medications and helps them stay adherent
prevention, care, support and treatment interventions in
to their prescription schedule. The system has been clinically
India. The collaborative program utilizes locally relevant
reviewed, validated by the pharmaceutical industry, and
approaches to educate pregnant women with know-how to
integrated into patient care programs throughout Canada
prevent mother-to-child HIV transmission. Leveraging the
and Europe, with opportunities to expand further into North
unique CONNECT FOR LIFE approach, HIV-positive pregnant
America and other regions.
women are enrolled in the program and followed for 18
months post-delivery across two states in India, addressing
the disease burden in private and public healthcare facilities. Providing guidance on dealing with cancer
In 2018, the program has been scaled to an additional four
In 2018, Janssen Oncology debuted a novel way to help
high-burden states, addressing the needs of both rural and
support patients with the launch of Cancer.com, a one-
urban HIV-positive women, and has also demonstrated
stop digital destination designed to help guide patients2018 Health for Humanity Report 44
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Innovating for Better Health
J&J-3 (GRI 103)
Johnson & Johnson has a 133-year legacy of impacting human whether internal or external, and we are driven by our commitment
health through scientific research and innovation. We pursue to evolve, thrive and invest in an ever-changing ecosystem. $10,775M
breakthroughs in science and technology in our own laboratories
and through our powerful network of scientists and entrepreneurs Pharmaceutical invested in R&D
all over the world. We combine a strong internal focus on R&D and
We focus our pharmaceutical research and development on
strategic external partnerships with an emphasis on local solutions
preventing and treating diseases in areas of medicine where we can
to meet different healthcare needs across the world.
make the most meaningful impact. Our R&D is currently focused 16.4%
Our innovation culture permeates Johnson & Johnson in a on the following areas of medicine: Cardiovascular & Metabolism,
transformational ecosystem that builds on the ingenuity of our Immunology, Infectious Diseases & Vaccines, Neuroscience, of Johnson & Johnson employees
people and external networks. The practical ways we advance Oncology, and Pulmonary Hypertension. involved in R&D activities21
innovation include:
We invest in modern data science to unlock disease insights
• We hire top scientists, medical and technology experts to and deliver better outcomes for patients. Janssen Research &
advance the Johnson & Johnson product pipeline. Development is also investing significantly in new drug modalities
such as engineered cells, engineered viruses and gene therapy to
• We harness and scale breakthroughs in science and technology.
make a profound difference to patients—a difference that goes
• Through our four global Innovation Centers, we identify
beyond what can be achieved using today’s traditional approach of
the best external innovation to partner with startups,
small molecules and monoclonal antibodies. We focus on treating
entrepreneurs, biotech and other innovators.
the disease as early in its course as possible and on creating
• JLABS, the Johnson & Johnson network of open innovation regimens that head progressively toward cure. We have created
health sciences incubators, gives life science startup companies
a new approach within our pharmaceutical R&D where we are
access to all the tools they need to take their breakthrough
pursuing research in validated biological pathways that we believe
ideas from concept to commercialization.
are central to several diseases.
• We maintain the longest-established corporate venture fund
in the life sciences industry, and have been making strategic We also recognize that the best science does not always reside in a
venture and equity investments in life science innovations for single company. It exists within us and all around us. Bringing new
more than four decades.
medicines to patients requires collaboration and partnership. A
large part of our success stems from the work we do with dynamic,
Mission-Oriented R&D
diverse partners, including startup companies, academic centers,
Guided by Our Credo, R&D at Johnson & Johnson starts with hospitals and health systems, government agencies, biotechnology
the needs of those we serve: patients, consumers and healthcare organizations, and other biopharmaceutical companies.
providers. In each of our business segments, we prioritize the
product pipeline based on the opportunity to address unmet These collaborations allow us to use our resources more efficiently,
medical needs and improve lives. We also consider the potential and further enable the process of developing breakthrough
for commercial success, which allows us to reinvest on behalf of medicines to create real value for patients, their families,
patients and consumers. We pursue the most compelling science, and communities.2018 Health for Humanity Report 45
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Innovation Design
Research & Development:
As a broadly based global healthcare company with Company Incubation:
expertise in all stages of R&D, we work to provide Providing hundreds of incubation options
a wide range of R&D support, from discovery and for our partners around the globe through
early development through clinical trial design and our JLABS.
regulatory strategy.
Our Vision:
Positively impact
human health through
innovation.
Innovation Acceleration: Strategic Investing:
Innovation Centers focused on accessing innovation from all Johnson & Johnson Innovation – JJDC is the
sources, from inception to early stages of development, with strategic venture capital arm of Johnson & Johnson
the potential to make a transformational impact on the health and a long-term investment partner to
and lives of people around the globe. healthcare entrepreneurs.
Pharmaceutical Medical Devices Consumer2018 Health for Humanity Report 46
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Today, we have approximately 140 active collaborations and R&D resources are also used to improve existing, U.S. Food and
partnerships from discovery to late-stage development. Here are Drug Administration (FDA)-approved products. This investment has
some examples: enabled us to advance more than 100 medicine candidates.
More
• Through our commitment to partner with those whose Over the past five years (2014 – 2018), we have had a total of Resources
innovative thinking will bring new and creative solutions to six new medicines approved by the FDA. Five of these six new
the field of medicine, Janssen is collaborating with Legend medicines were granted priority review by the FDA. Priority review
Biotech USA, Inc. to develop a chimeric antigen receptor is an expedited review program reserved for products that treat For additional examples of
T cell therapy (CAR-T), which harnesses the body’s own a serious condition and would provide a significant improvement innovative solutions, see Better
immune system to fight cancer. CAR-T therapy is a type of for patients in terms of safety or effectiveness. During this same
Health for All section
immunotherapy, which involves extracting a patient’s white time period, we received eight FDA Fast Track designations, which
blood cells, genetically modifying them in a laboratory, and facilitate development and expedite review of drugs that treat
re-administering the modified cells to the patient to permit serious conditions and fill unmet medical needs. We also received
the cells to attack the disease. The hope is that treatment approvals for more than 30 expanded indications or new product
will lead to longer remissions from disease for patients where formulations that enable new groups of patients to benefit from our
conventional treatments are no longer providing benefit. medicines.
Every year in the United States, more than 30,000 patients
are diagnosed with multiple myeloma, and more than 12,000 Since the FDA established the Breakthrough Therapy Designation
patients die from the disease.22 in 2012, we have received nine FDA Breakthrough Therapy
Designations for indications for five of our investigational medicines.
• Janssen is collaborating with Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals, A Breakthrough Therapy Designation is a process that expedites
Inc. to develop an early-stage ribonucleic acid interference the development and review of an investigational medicine that is
(RNAi) candidate, along with utilization of a platform that intended to address a serious condition when preliminary clinical
blocks production of disease-causing proteins. This brings us evidence indicates that the medicine may demonstrate a substantial
closer to developing an effective therapy with the potential to improvement over other available treatment.
increase rates of functional cure for people living with chronic
hepatitis B viral infection. Hepatitis B is a life-threatening viral Medical Devices
infection of the liver which, if it becomes chronic, can cause
At the Johnson & Johnson Medical Devices Companies, we are
cirrhosis—scarring of liver tissue—and liver cancer. The World
building a better health experience and enabling people everywhere
Health Organization cites hepatitis B as a global public health
to live life more fully. We combine our breadth and depth across
problem with 257 million people living with the disease and
surgical and orthopedic technologies, eye health, and interventional
887,000 deaths in 2015.23 While a preventative vaccine is
solutions with the scale and expertise of Johnson & Johnson to meet
available, cure rates for those infected remain low, and most
the changing needs of patients, health providers and our world. We
patients require lifelong therapy. RNAi therapy candidates
are addressing healthcare’s most pressing challenges and creating
have been shown to have an effect on hepatitis B viral
solutions for a lifetime of overall health.
infection replication pathways and on the production of viral
proteins.24 Our work with this investigational treatment and
As one of the most comprehensive medical devices businesses in
other assets within our clinical development pipeline makes us
the world, we are working to design and disrupt every major stage
optimistic that we can achieve higher rates of functional cure
of the healthcare experience. We focus on creating breakthrough
for patients worldwide.2018 Health for Humanity Report 47
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
innovations, advanced medical a layer of triclosan, play a significant
technologies and patient-centered role in reducing the risk of infections
A snapshot of JLABS First JLABS in Europe
solutions that enable smarter health, and helping patients recover.
activity in 2018
better value and improved outcomes. We
• Our new SURGICEL Powder
aim to improve the health experience for
Absorbable Hemostat, was selected The Belgium-based JLINX incubator, a
patients, physicians, health systems and
as the Gold Winner in the Drug- collaboration launched in 2016 between
others along the spectrum of care. Delivery Devices and Combination Accelerating Growth Janssen and Bioqube Ventures, has now
Products category of the 20th Annual • JLABS has supported over 450 transitioned into a JLABS, making this
Our legacy of pioneering medical device Medical Design Excellence Awards companies over more than 6 years, the first JLABS in Europe. JLABS@BE
innovation continued in 2018 with the competition. SURGICEL Powder 44% increase in 2018 over 2017 will accommodate up to 30 life science
following: advances blood clotting and rapidly startups focused on innovations
stops continuous, broad-surface • $11.6 billion in financing secured in across the entire healthcare spectrum,
• Johnson & Johnson Vision oozing of blood in many surgical 2018 (23% more than in 2017) including biotech, pharmaceuticals,
introduced ACUVUE OASYS with situations. • 12 companies now publicly traded medical devices, consumer and
TRANSITIONS LIGHT INTELLIGENT healthtech sectors.
TECHNOLOGY, a first-of-its-kind • 88% of JLABS companies are
contact lens that provides wearers Consumer currently in business or acquired
with vision correction and a dynamic Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc. Supporting Diverse Entrepreneurs
photochromic filter that helps to
believes in caring for people around the
continuously balance the amount of • 111 companies (26%), are led by Top 100 Global Innovator
world by anticipating their needs and
light entering the eye. These contact women, (56% more than in 2017)
creating solutions and experiences that
lenses seamlessly adjust from clear • 98 companies (23%) are minority-
help them and those they care for live
to dark in response to changing light led, (78% more than in 2017)
conditions, reducing exposure to healthy, vibrant lives. Johnson & Johnson For the sixth consecutive year, in 2018,
bright light indoors and outdoors, Consumer, known for its iconic brands, is • 58% of companies are led by first- Johnson & Johnson was named a
including filtering blue light and one of the largest and most scientifically time entrepreneurs, 42% are led by Clarivate Analytics Top 100 Global
blocking UV rays. driven consumer businesses in the world. serial entrepreneurs Innovator. The Top 100 Global Innovator
Most of our products are endorsed Creating the Innovation Ecosystem list spotlights the world’s most innovative
• In the UK, the National Health Service as #1 in their category by healthcare organizations that prioritize investments
(NHS) Innovation and Technology • 170 JPALs, industry-leading experts in unique and enduring inventions.
professionals.
Payment program went live on April 1, and high-ranking business leaders
2018, with four healthcare innovations from Johnson & Johnson’s global
Our R&D capabilities are focused on
that will be fast-tracked into use. network, coached and mentored
One of these is our ETHICON Plus providing scientifically and clinically JLABS residents throughout the year
proven solutions for consumer needs. Our
Sutures, recognized for reducing the • 60+ Investor Hub members
risk of hospital infections such as the R&D is strategically organized around More
methicillin-resistant staphylococcus consumer needs, in Consumer Healthcare • 45+ companies providing business
aureus (MRSA) “super bug.” (Pain, Cough/Cold, Allergy, Digestive services to JLABS portfolio Resources
companies
More than a quarter of hospital- Health, Smoking Cessation, Oral Care,
acquired infections are surgical site Wound Care, Feminine Care) and in
infections,25 most of which can be Skin Care (Baby, Face, Sun, Body, Hair). 2018 JLABS Impact Report
prevented; Plus Sutures, coated with2018 Health for Humanity Report 48
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
are 500+ active opportunities and collaborations ranging from
licensing and acquisition deals with big and small companies
Digital for improved
“ As alumni, JLABS offered to continue to mentor to academic consortia, individual academic relationships and medical adherence
us. Through the JPALS program, we connected government collaborations.
with Johnson & Johnson’s global regulatory experts
whose deep knowledge and experience is invaluable Our innovation incubator
to us. ” The Johnson & Johnson CARE4TODAY
JLABS, our open-innovation ecosystem for healthcare
Connect, a medication management
Wendye Robbins, President & CEO, Blade Therapeutics entrepreneurs, has become a significant force in health innovation, mobile app that currently delivers
supporting hundreds of entrepreneurs around the globe working digital interventions, Behavior Change
to turn breakthrough science into transformative solutions in Techniques, including planning,
biotech, pharmaceutical, medical devices, consumer and digital prompt-cues, self-monitoring, and
We deliver products and solutions grounded in deep consumer health programs. JLABS’ no-strings-attached model has helped feedback and monitoring to help
insights and backed by strong research. We seek important new entrepreneurs without taking any equity or intellectual property, patients manage their treatments
technologies and solutions that can be accelerated to consumers encouraging collaboration while providing access to the world’s and get the support they need. In
the EU, by applying the methodology
through co-creation with external innovators and our internal R&D leading experts, executives and businesspeople to help companies
developed by the Sustainable
teams. grow. Also, JLABS maintains Investor Hubs, a network of global
Healthcare Coalition and the NHS
investors, at each of its sites to mentor and potentially invest in
Sustainable Development Unit to Total
Inspired by research from consumer studies, LISTERINE introduced
JLABS portfolio companies. Knee Replacement surgery integrated
the most significant oral care innovation in decades: LISTERINE
with the CARE4TODAY digital app,
GO! TABS, solid Clean Mint tablets that transform into a swishable,
New partnering office in Australia we demonstrated not only a reduction
alcohol-free liquid when chewed to deliver fresh breath for up to in patient’s length of stay, but also
four hours. Made from food-grade ingredients, the product (sold In 2018, we launched the Johnson & Johnson Innovation Partnering minimized waste, energy consumption,
under the name READY! TABS in the United States) was formulated Office in collaboration with the Victorian State Government and and carbon emissions associated with
to neutralize odor molecules—even in areas a toothbrush can’t Monash University. The new facility will accelerate healthcare the patient care pathway.
reach, like the back of the tongue—and be safely swallowed. innovation and commercialization in Victoria and beyond.
LISTERINE GO! TABS are helping consumers re-think their JJIPO@Monash will focus on nurturing the next generation of
everyday oral care routine with a revolutionary new form that innovators by delivering training, mentoring and networking
works with today’s on-the-go lifestyle. programs to connect innovators in Victoria with the global
Johnson & Johnson innovation network.
Our Innovation Ecosystem
Our commitment to the global community of innovators and 3D printing research laboratory
creating a fertile ecosystem is broad and deep through multiple
In 2018, we announced our plan to establish our first 3D bioprinting
Johnson & Johnson Innovation nodes. These include business
research laboratory at Trinity College Dublin in collaboration
development, venture investment, incubation, and the R&D
with Advanced Materials and Bioengineering Research. This
resources from across our Company working in tandem to advance
collaboration will focus on advancing personalized, bioprinted
science and technology at all stages of innovation. Today, there
healthcare solutions for patients and consumers while furthering2018 Health for Humanity Report 49
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
our vision to positively impact human health through innovation. Surgery 4.0
This collaboration focuses on developing 3D-printed biological
With our wide reach and presence around the world,
implants to treat people affected by degenerative diseases such
Johnson & Johnson has a significant opportunity and responsibility
as osteoarthritis, a disease of the joints caused by the breakdown
to deliver on the promise of Digital Surgery and profoundly
of cartilage and bone tissue. Osteoarthritis affects an estimated
change healthcare for generations to come. We are building a
500,000 people in the Republic of Ireland, with about 10,000 hip
comprehensive digital ecosystem that uses advanced technologies
and knee replacements undertaken annually.
across all types of surgical procedures before, during and after
surgery, leveraging connected intelligence to deliver enhanced
Digital Health Innovations
experiences and outcomes for patients, surgeons, and healthcare
At Johnson & Johnson, we always remain true to our roots as an systems. The technologies from Verb Surgical, our strategic
innovative startup established in 1886. Through the decades, partnership with Google parent Alphabet Inc.’s Verily Life
we have contributed to the evolution of science and technology, Sciences and our acquisition of Orthotaxy’s robotic technology
from pioneering the development of sterile surgery at the turn of for orthopaedics, together with our market-leading surgical
the 20th century to current research on a differentiated robotic- instruments, medical implants and solutions, create the foundation
assisted surgery platform in orthopedics, and to developing the of this comprehensive digital ecosystem.
first HIV vaccine. We are confident that in today’s rapidly changing
healthcare landscape, Johnson & Johnson is uniquely positioned
Innovations in digital health at the frontline of healthcare
to lead the next frontier in medical innovation, powered by science
and technology. Importantly, we leverage technology and smart With Johnson & Johnson Foundation grants, we support the
solutions to empower the health workforce on the front lines of development of health technology that connects people at the
care. front lines of care to information, to each other, and to health
systems. Our partners such as Living Goods and Medic Mobile,
With more than $2 billion annual investment in technology, we are have digitally empowered nurses, midwives and community health
investing for the future to shape the way healthcare is delivered, workers in eight countries with tools for clinical guidance and tech
managed and experienced. platforms to serve thousands of patients.
MomConnect, a flagship program of the South African National
Tech for better health outcomes
Department of Health, has registered mothers to receive vital
Johnson & Johnson entered into a research study in collaboration health information via mobile messaging, including via WhatsApp.
with Apple Inc. to investigate whether a new heart health program NurseConnect, a companion program to MomConnect, is helping
using an app from Johnson & Johnson in combination with Apple build peer support and learning communities among nurses and
Watch’s irregular rhythm notifications and ECG app can accelerate midwives. In 2018, NurseConnect allowed the South African
the diagnosis and improve health outcomes of the 33 million people National Department of Health to instantly alert midwives/nurses
worldwide living with atrial fibrillation (AFib), a condition that can about the source of the world’s largest listeriosis outbreak.
lead to stroke and other potentially devastating complications.
In the United States alone, AFib is responsible for approximately
130,000 deaths and 750,000 hospitalizations every year. Planning
for the study began in 2018, and was publicly announced in
January; the study will launch later this year.2018 Health for Humanity Report 50
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
CONNECT FOR LIFE is a patient-centric, mobile health
platform funded by Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of
Johnson & Johnson that engages in partnerships with leading
health advocates to improve the understanding of, and attitudes
toward, diseases such as HIV, TB and other infectious diseases. The
program aims to address major challenges in disease management
by using interactive voice response to manage: medication-
adherence, clinic-attendance, prevention of new infections,
provision of health tips and retention to achieve lasting positive
impact against some of the greatest public health challenges.
In 2018, CONNECT FOR LIFE improved anti-retroviral therapy
adherence and promoted HIV viral load suppression in people
living with HIV in India, Uganda and the Philippines, and has been
deployed in Rwanda to support and manage mental health patients
from relapsing.
Democratizing dermatology
Leveraging our expertise in skin imaging science, we are helping
people understand their skin at a deeper level. In 2018, we
launched the NEUTROGENA SKIN 360 app to help democratize
dermatology. The smartphone-enabled tool measures the skin’s
health above and below the surface, using technology once only
available to dermatologists to record metrics including pore size,
fine lines, and moisture levels. The NEUTROGENA SKIN 360 app
then uses proprietary algorithms (based on decades of industry-
leading research) and machine learning to recommend the right
products from our portfolio for each user and help track results
over time.2018 Health for Humanity Report 51
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Strengthening Health Systems
Strong, well-functioning health systems are imperative for a multi-stakeholder platform to promote collaborative working in
advancing human health. Around the world, we leverage our countries and globally on health systems strengthening, supported
global expertise in health and on-the-ground presence in many by the WHO and the World Bank, among others. We hope that this ON TRACK
regions to advocate for tailored solutions that help strengthen initiative will enable us, together with many partners, to forge a
2020 Goal Progress
local health systems. We advocate for universal access to care; clear path to universal healthcare around the world.
pilot sustainable financing solutions together with strategic 700+
partners so that people can cover their health needs; and educate Advancing the healthcare system in China
and empower professionals on the front lines, such as nurses,
One important pillar in “Healthy China 2030,” set forth by China’s
midwives, community health workers and caregivers. Working
central government, is to improve the country’s current universal
with many stakeholders, including community leaders, healthcare
health coverage system and increase healthcare quality. In 2018, engagements conducted with
companies, non-governmental organizations, payers, providers
Johnson & Johnson partnered with the China Development and government officials and other
and policy makers, we make an impact by filling gaps in care,
Research Foundation, a public organization with the mission to partners in Brazil, Philippines, Russia,
promoting value-based care and aiming to keep people well at
promote economic development and social progress, on a project Rwanda, and Mexico.
every age and every stage of life.
to improve China’s multi-level medical insurance system. The
Universal Health Coverage goal is to identify opportunities to improve the basic medical Existing pilot projects in Brazil, China,
insurance system through a stronger connection to supplementary Mexico, Philippines and Russia are
We believe that good health is at the heart of human development;
commercial health insurance for patients seeking better access. ongoing. New pilots launched in
every individual should have access to quality, affordable and
The project concluded in March 2019, and recommendations will Colombia, Indonesia, Philippines
reliable essential healthcare services; no one should have to forgo
be submitted to the State Council for consideration. and Rwanda.
treatment or be forced into poverty because of the cost of care.
View Scorecard
This philosophy underlies our support for global Universal Health
Coverage (UHC). Championed by the World Health Organization
(WHO), efforts to achieve UHC are a global priority, also reflected in
the UN Sustainable Development Goal 3: healthy lives and wellbeing Universal Health
for all at all ages. At Johnson & Johnson, we are firmly committed to Coverage Statement
doing our part to ensure that the promise of UHC becomes a reality.
Around the world, we have hundreds of health-related programs, Download
and we strive to align these with government priorities and advocate
for quality healthcare, especially for women and children. We believe
that tailored strategies that align local needs, resources and market
conditions must be part of the solution.
“The Right Start” -
JOHNSON'S Baby in
Building stronger universal healthcare systems26
partnership with Save
In 2018, we engaged intensively with the WHO on the topic of UHC
and the ways in which we could support collaborative initiatives, the Children
and we formally joined the UHC2030 Private Sector Constituency,2018 Health for Humanity Report 52
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
One of the newer ways in which we are investing in health
entrepreneurs with a social impact mission is through our impact
“ At JOHNSON’S Baby we care about the investment initiative. We are focused on a limited number of ON TRACK
development of babies and are determined to help investment opportunities over a five- to seven-year horizon. To
2020 Goal Progress
them thrive. Through the Right Start initiative, we date, we have made a number of investments that aim to reach
aim to raise awareness and ensure more babies vulnerable populations in Kenya, Southeast Asia and the UK. Together with partners, trained
receive the care and protection they deserve.”
We maintain a range of partnerships, in most cases funded by 58,665
Makis Kosmatos, Area Managing Director, Africa, grants through our Johnson & Johnson Foundation and Johnson &
Middle East and Turkey, Johnson & Johnson Johnson Corporate Citizenship Trust, that take a life-span approach
Consumer Inc. to health workforce strengthening, engaging young people in
science and an interest in health careers, providing scholarships for
birth attendants, who assisted in
nursing or midwifery education, and advancing the next generation
3,046,240 births.
with leadership and management training.
The Right Start for babies
View Scorecard
Some 230 million babies around the world do not have birth Some of our partnerships include:
certificates, resulting in a lack of basic human rights, needs, and
• The Medical and Surgical Skills Institute, based in Ghana, where
protection.27 This lack of identity can also lead to displacement,
more than 21,000 healthcare professionals have received critical
statelessness, and the inability to prove that a child is a minor in
skills training over the past three years. Learn more here.
the eyes of the law. In 2018, The Right Start Initiative was launched Partnered with 230 organizations to
in Ethiopia and Lebanon, where governments are actively trying to • The AO Alliance Foundation in low- and middle-income advance the training, skills-building
register as many affected babies as possible. Alongside international countries in Africa to develop skills and motivation among and leadership development of 104,479
humanitarian organization Save the Children, JOHNSON’S Baby is national and regional healthcare workers, that can maximize health workers, including:
determined to give these babies the right start by making invisible the opportunities afforded by available resources for care of the 6,327
injured and in need of surgery.
children visible, and changing the course of their lives. The three-
year program focuses on building capacity among staff in key
midwives
governmental institutions through a selection of trainings and Alliances to advance education for community health workers
workshops, while driving birth registrations in both countries.
In 2018, we announced a new partnership with the Health for All 32,804
Alliance to ensure that community healthcare workers around
Supporting the Front Lines of Healthcare
the world can access the skills and digital tools they need to help community workers
At Johnson & Johnson, we invest in education and training for save and improve lives. We will support these training efforts with
the global health workforce—the people on the front lines of funding and other resources. 37,352
healthcare, such as nurses, midwives, community health workers,
caregivers and others who deliver treatments and support to our
nurses
communities every day. These everyday heroes provide everything
Johnson & Johnson
from health education to preventive wellness solutions and clinical in 67
interventions. Their skills, knowledge and passion are instrumental Announces the Health
to improving health outcomes for the world’s most vulnerable for All Alliance countries
people and their families.2018 Health for Humanity Report 53
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
We supported the Strategic Innovation for Community Health Strengthening professional midwifery training programs
(STICH) pilot program in Nairobi, Kenya, in partnership with
Considering that maternal deaths are still occurring in medical
INSEAD, to help further develop leadership and innovation among
centers, many of which are oversaturated and lack resources,
community and primary-care workers across Sub-Saharan Africa.
Johnson & Johnson partners with UNFPA in Mexico to focus on the
quality of care afforded to patients by strengthening training for
professional midwifery.
STICH Cohort 2018
To that end, UNFPA is working to increase the participation of
IN PROGRESS
professional midwives in maternal health services to help reduce
maternal deaths by addressing births that present no complications
2020 SDG Commitment Progress
at the primary care level, with added support from a trusted and
accessible referral system. Currently in its second phase, the project 5-year Target: 60 million women
Partnering for maternal and newborn health
involves working with 11 professional midwifery schools across the and children will have received
Born on Time is our partnership with the Government of Canada in country by training healthcare providers, improving infrastructure support and tools to enable a
Bangladesh, Ethiopia and Mali to prevent preterm birth by targeting and providing technical support. healthy future.
risk factors related to lifestyle, infection, contraception, and nutrition.
2016-2018 Progress: 33.6 million
By 2020, Born On Time aims to reach more than 1.8 million women
women and children (56% of overall
and adolescent girls, and train more than 8,000 healthcare providers,
goal achieved).
including 1,825 community health workers in Bangladesh, Ethiopia and
Mali. Based on year two reporting of Johnson & Johnson support of View Scorecard
this training, the program is poised to far exceed its initial five-year goals.
Save the Children programs, through Johnson & Johnson
support in Bangladesh, Ethiopia, the Philippines and the UK,
train healthcare providers to support maternal, newborn, and
child health. The Helping Babies Breathe initiative, in partnership
with Save the Children, has aided the training of skilled birth
attendants in neonatal resuscitation in 11 countries to date, with
the latest expansion of the program to Guatemala in 2018.
We also partnered with United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA)
to end maternal deaths in humanitarian and fragile settings, and
helped provide midwives in Haiti and Liberia with Emergency
Obstetrics and Newborn Care (EmONC) training, reaching
women and girls with health services.2018 Health for Humanity Report 54
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Expanding quality emergency obstetrics and newborn in healthcare. We introduced new television and digital advertising,
care in Nigeria celebrating nursing innovation throughout history that has changed
Enhancing skills in India
human health, as well as a new website, nursing.jnj.com, for current
The Johnson & Johnson partnership with the Wellbeing Foundation
and prospective nurses. The inaugural Johnson & Johnson Nurses
Africa and the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine was expanded
Innovate QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE then invited nurses in the
in 2018 throughout Kwara State in Nigeria. The partnership, which In India, Johnson & Johnson Medical
United States to submit ideas for new devices, health technologies,
was already active in several regions of Kwara State, focuses on India launched a specialized bus to
protocols or treatment approaches with the power to profoundly
quality of EmONC service so that more mothers survive childbirth travel across the country and provide
impact patient care, for the opportunity to receive up to $100,000
and more newborns are born healthy. hands-on surgery training to healthcare
in grants and mentoring and coaching from Johnson & Johnson, via professionals in the next five years.
JLABS, our open-innovation ecosystem of healthcare entrepreneurs, Named "Johnson & Johnson Institute on
to move their ideas forward. Learn more about our commitment to Wheels," this mobile training center will
nursing at nursing.jnj.com. enhance the surgical skills of doctors,
“ Partnerships like ours are so important because nurses, and paramedical staff to address
of the huge improvements that can readily be Supporting nursing skills, leadership development and resiliency the demands of today's healthcare
delivery system and provide better
made. 80% of all maternal deaths result from five
As part of our ongoing commitment to advancing health and outcomes to patients of India.
complications which can be treated by qualified and
wellbeing and caring for the most vulnerable communities,
trained health professionals: hemorrhage, sepsis,
Johnson & Johnson has engaged in the following programs and
eclampsia, complications of abortion and obstructed
partnerships:
labor. Our training is successful because it equips
doctors, nurses and midwives, as a collective team, • Supported the Duke-Johnson & Johnson Nurse Leadership Supporting surgical needs
with the skills needed to overcome these obstetric Program, currently in its fifth cycle, providing advanced
emergencies. ” practice nurses working in community practice settings with
skills to effectively and efficiently deliver primary care services
We marked a 25-year partnership
Her Excellency Mrs Toyin Ojora Saraki, Founder-President of the to vulnerable populations.
milestone with Mercy Ships, supporting
Wellbeing Foundation Africa
its mission of providing hope, healing
• Partnered with Sigma since 2002 on the Maternal-Child Health
and resilience by providing hygiene kits
Nurse Leadership Academy to develop the leadership skills of
and surgical products, like ETHICON
maternal and child health nurses and nurse midwives as they
sutures, as well as through our
strive to improve the quality of healthcare for underserved
partnership on the Essential Surgical
Empowering nurses around the world women and children.
Skills Course that focuses on healthcare
system strengthening.
At Johnson & Johnson, we believe that nurses are changing the • Supported, since 2001, nurses graduating from the Aga Khan
trajectory of health and are our critical partners on the front lines University's School of Nursing and Midwifery who have been
of care. Our many programs across the Enterprise help support deployed across health facilities in the East Africa region. Learn
and elevate the visibility and impact of nursing in healthcare by more about this program here.
championing nurse-led innovation, supporting skill development,
• Supported development of the Care for the Caregiver
developing leaders and strengthening nurse resiliency.
educational self-help tool kit in partnership with the Texas
Nurses Association and Texas Organization of Nurse Executives
In 2018, Johnson & Johnson Nursing evolved its nursing advocacy
in the wake of Hurricane Harvey, to address moral distress
strategy from a 15-year emphasis on nursing recruitment in the
and promote moral resilience, for nurses working in disaster
United States to a new focus on championing nurse-led innovation recovery situations.2018 Health for Humanity Report 55
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Shifting to Value-Based Care innovative products and cancer treatment at home which improved
healthcare outcomes for patients and the society. The initiative is
At Johnson & Johnson, we believe a value-based healthcare system
aligned with the Ministry of Health’s focus to deliver value-based
has tremendous potential to improve the health of populations,
healthcare to provide sustainable quality healthcare services amid
increase access to care, and limit costs. The transition to a
rising costs for the people of Singapore.
value-based healthcare system will require many stakeholders—
healthcare companies, payers, providers and policy makers—to
work together and create an ecosystem of care. Working with our
partners, we have implemented a range of innovative value-based
initiatives, from agreements based on achieving specific clinical ON TRACK
endpoints, to ones linked to offsetting other healthcare expenditures.
2020 SDG Commitment Progress
Value-based care saves money 5-year Target: 50 million people will
Our global CareAdvantage initiative in the Medical Devices have had access to safe, essential,
segment was launched in 2017 as a tool to help healthcare and timely surgical care.
providers navigate value-based care (VBC), adjusted to meet the 2016-2018 Progress: 37.6 million
different needs of regional care systems. Data-driven, holistic and beneficiaries (75% of overall goal
grounded in Johnson & Johnson’s deep expertise and insights, achieved).
CareAdvantage helps providers and health systems in several
countries implement value-based action plans while optimizing
View Scorecard
patient care.
Advancing VBC in Singapore
In 2018, we hosted the second annual Value-Based Care Forum in
Singapore. Together with more than 120 local healthcare leaders
from the Ministry of Health and the full spectrum of public and
private healthcare representatives and experts, we explored VBC
and outcomes from different perspectives, using examples of
successful implementation as a source of insight. A highlight of the
event was the keynote from Dr. Kevin J. Bozic, a recognized leader
in orthopedic surgery and value-based healthcare payment and
delivery models in the United States. Key local clinicians shared on
partnership projects with Johnson & Johnson relating to wearables,2018 Health for Humanity Report 56
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Contributing to Community Health
GRI 203 (103), 203-1, 203-2
Our Credo defines the concept that “We are responsible to
the communities in which we live and work and to the world
community as well.” At Johnson & Johnson, we fulfill this ON TRACK ON TRACK
obligation by actively engaging in our communities across the
2020 Goal Progress 2020 Goal Progress
globe. We support the people at the front lines of delivering care,
so that communities can more effectively address the health STAYFREE activated the partnership In partnership with Lions Club
needs of the world’s most vulnerable people. Our giving, products, with UNICEF to improve menstrual International, supported delivery of
innovation, and business initiatives help create a better world and health and hygiene management
7.9M
environment for people around the globe. among adolescent girls in three
additional states in India. In prior
Our programs and solutions are developed through global
years we activated partnerships with
leadership and regional and country-level colleagues to meet
JOHNSON'S and LISTERINE.
community needs while aligning with enterprise-wide priorities
eye care screenings and 73,018
where Johnson & Johnson has unique knowledge and skills to View Scorecard
corrective treatments (spectacles) to
make a difference.
underserved children.
We mobilize partners for the benefit of our communities through View Scorecard
partnership, financial support, activation of our large employee
base and advocacy for priority health issues. We work with our
community partners in a collaborative spirit, based on mutual trust
and aligned values.
Our employees are actively involved in volunteering in our
community initiatives, as well as through other community
engagement programs.
For more about employee volunteering, see Our People section.2018 Health for Humanity Report 57
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Global Signature Partnerships and Platforms
We maintain several global partnerships and platforms that “ We are incredibly proud of the work we've
advance healthcare and improve people’s lives.
done with UNICEF helping to ensure that children
everywhere have a healthy future. This renewed
In 2018, we engaged with our partners through strategic
commitment will strengthen our efforts to support
investments, and through our own platforms, around specific needs
and advocate for women and children, as well as the
and events.
frontline health workers who care for them. ”
Examples of Our Global Signature Partnerships:28
Lauren Moore, Vice President,
Global Community Impact, Johnson & Johnson
UNICEF
For nearly 30 years, Johnson & Johnson and UNICEF have worked
together to empower healthcare providers in 20 countries. On
Nicole Mark, Senior Financial Analyst,
World Children’s Day, Johnson & Johnson strengthened this
communities in Vietnam and the Philippines. Global Regulatory Affairs on an Operation
long-standing partnership by announcing a $10 million expanded
Smile mission in 2018 to Madagascar.
global partnership with UNICEF to support the crucial work of
frontline health workers in delivering care to newborns, children Save the Children29
and mothers around the world including among indigenous
Our partnership of more than two decades with Save the Children
demonstrates the shared priority we place on addressing the
needs of the most vulnerable children. Our programs include:
newborn survival, psychosocial support of Syrian refugee children,
immediate response to humanitarian crises, employee engagement,
and joint advocacy. In 2018, we renewed our global partnership to
improve the survival and healthy development of children under
age five, especially newborns. We also launched a new digital tool
designed to turn the fun things kids say into charitable donations
called Wisdom by Kids. Through 2019, the platform will focus on
benefiting Save the Children during its 2019 centennial year.
Examples of our Global Signature Activation Platforms:
Operation Smile
By supporting the education of indigenous midwives, For more than 30 years, Johnson & Johnson has helped Operation
Johnson & Johnson is helping save maternal and newborn Smile with financial and product contributions to provide smiles to
lives among remote mountainous ethnic communities in children around the world born with cleft lips and palates. In May
Vietnam—this effort is part of a $10 million expanded global
2018, we again held our annual Smile Week, supporting fundraising
partnership with UNICEF announced in 2018, one of the
through a range of initiatives around the world. To transform lives
Company's largest commitments to date.
with Operation Smile, our Johnson & Johnson employees work as
Photo credit: Paul Bettings2018 Health for Humanity Report 58
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
volunteers on medical missions and experience firsthand what our opportunities for pledges to be matched. Projects on
support means to these children. CARINGCROWD tackle a wide range of health topics, including
clean water, infectious diseases, maternal health, mental health,
More
Global Citizen medical equipment and health worker training.
Resources
Since 2016, Johnson & Johnson partnered with social action
Donate a Photo
platform Global Citizen to address public health challenges. In
Donate a Photo is the way Johnson & Johnson connects people
Overview of key programs
to nonprofits, increasing awareness and resources for deserving
and initiatives
causes including women’s and children’s health, healthy families,
health workforce, environmental health, global disease challenges,
essential surgery, education and equality and emergency relief.
Available in Canada, Japan, the UK and the United States, for every An interactive map of our initiatives
photo shared through the Donate a Photo app, Johnson & Johnson around the globe
donates US$1 to a social cause.
CARINGCROWD
Since its launch, CARINGCROWD has generated:
2018, we had a strong presence at the Global Citizen Festival in
$1,250,637 pledged by individuals
Johannesburg, South Africa, on World AIDS Day. See Making HIV
History for more details on this event. $709,987 matched by
Johnson & Johnson
CARINGCROWD
246 successful campaigns for health projects in 38
At Johnson & Johnson, we are uniquely positioned to apply countries
our capabilities to help enable large-scale change for good.
One way we are doing that is through the creation of our 102 nonprofit beneficiaries
free CARINGCROWD crowdfunding platform for nonprofit
organizations that is entirely dedicated to improving global
public health. Anyone in the world can make a pledge on
CARINGCROWD, and Johnson & Johnson provides substantial2018 Health for Humanity Report 59
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Our Giving to assess and rapidly respond—in many cases within hours—to
critical health needs with an array of consumer, pharmaceutical
At Johnson & Johnson, inspired by Our Credo, we use our scale
and medical products. Through partners such as Heart to Heart
and resources for good, contributing to many causes and initiatives More
International, MAP International and Americares, we deliver
around the world to help advance health and improve people’s emergency medicine and relief supplies to families affected by these Resources
lives—both on a global level and at local levels—through targeted
events. In 2018, we leveraged the Johnson & Johnson network and
initiatives providing local support, engaging employees in our
passion of employees in times of crisis to provide immediate aid to
communities, supporting them in the case of emergencies, and
communities affected by natural disasters working with six partners. Learn more about our approach to
donating products for a range of needs.
More than $11 million in cash and products were donated to support disaster
the disaster response efforts in countries including Bangladesh,
Our community giving and social impact programs are funded and
India, Indonesia, Kenya, Liberia, Peru, Turkey, South Somalia, the
supported through a variety of entities:30
United States and Yemen.
• Our Global Community Impact partnerships and other strategic
We support our employees who volunteer to assist when disaster
charitable initiatives via the Johnson & Johnson Foundation;
strikes. In 2018, we created a new First Responder Time-Off Policy,
• The Johnson & Johnson Patient Assistance Foundation; allowing employees who serve as Emergency Volunteer Workers
to take up to 40 hours a year of paid time off if an emergency
• The Johnson & Johnson Corporate Citizenship Trust; summons requires the employee to be late or absent from work.
Employees are also able to leave work to respond to the summons
• Various corporate functional divisions and operating companies as needed. The policy currently applies to employees in the United
across our three business segments around the world; States and Puerto Rico.
• Employee volunteering and (often matched) fundraising for
Disaster response
local causes;
In 2018, we allocated $0.86 million in cash and $10.43 million worth
• Product donations. of Johnson & Johnson products in support for immediate, mid- and
long-term response to natural disasters, including Syria refugee
crisis, hurricanes Harvey, Maria, Michael and Florence, earthquake
and tsunami in Indonesia, among others.
Statement on Charitable
Contributions Product donations
Download Globally, we aim to support patients and our partners in every way
we can, and that includes non-cash contributions. As one of the
first companies to sign the WHO Guidelines for Donated Drugs,
and as a founding member of the Partnership for Quality Medical
Community disaster preparedness and relief
Donations (PQMD), Johnson & Johnson ensures that all its product
Johnson & Johnson strives to be a trusted community partner, donations follow global standards and best practices. We work with
including in times of crisis. In the immediate aftermath of any major the PQMD to further strengthen their product donation guidelines.
disaster, we work with international relief partners and local affiliates2018 Health for Humanity Report 60
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Our Approach to Disaster Response
In the event of a disaster, the Johnson & Johnson Crisis Management
Team, comprised of many cross-functional teams across the
Enterprise, ensures coordination and alignment to meet our
commitment to the safety and wellbeing of our employees and
their families, and to ensure our products get to where they are
needed most. To that end, we work together toward preparedness,
prevention, response, and quick recovery following a crisis.
We work with trusted partners on the front lines of care to help
communities by coordinating product donations, and through
programs that help communities recover,
rebuild and become resilient.
Ensuring the Safety
and Security of Our Employees:
Our first priority is helping our
employees and their families meet basic
needs and get back on their feet.
Helping Communities Recover,
Ensuring Business Continuity:
Rebuild, and be Resilient:
Our businesses are required to maintain a
Since our first recorded disaster response
strong business continuity management
in 1906, the Johnson & Johnson Family of
program with centralized coordination and
Companies has responded consistently
crisis management for regional events.
to major natural and man-made disasters
around the world.
Supporting Employee
Volunteerism & Giving:
Johnson & Johnson has strong
employee engagement programs that
support employees' giving back to their
communities.2018 Health for Humanity Report 61
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
We have longstanding relationships with strategic partners
who have proven track records in product donations for
Our Performance
disaster relief and for specific health conditions in low- and
middle-income countries. Product donations managed Our Giving 2018 2017 2016
by these partners align closely with the conditions for
product donation recommended by WHO and PQMD, and Total cash and product contributed globally (millions) $1,612 $1,469 $1,194
with industry requirements and regulations. In the United
States, we also support independent initiatives by donating Non-cash contributed globally* (millions) $1,299 $1,242 $1,006
medicines and funding to the Johnson & Johnson Patient
Assistance Foundation Inc. (JJPAF), an independent, Cash contributed globally** (millions) $313 $227 $188
nonprofit organization that is committed to helping eligible
patients without insurance coverage receive prescription
* Non-cash contributions are recorded by Johnson & Johnson at fair market value as of 12/31/2018.
products donated by Johnson & Johnson operating
companies. ** Cash contributed globally includes $23 million contributed by the Johnson & Johnson Foundation through the U.S. Employee
Matching Gifts Program in 2018.
In 2018, we donated $987 million in free product and financial
support to JJPAF, enabling the Foundation to provide
medicines at no cost to approximately 76,000 patients.
More
Resources
Johnson & Johnson Foundation 2018
Annual Report
Johnson & Johnson Corporate
Citizenship Trust 2018 Annual Report2018 Health for Humanity Report 62
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Our People
We owe our success to Johnson & Johnson employees who are
passionate about our mission to change the trajectory of health for
humanity. People join Johnson & Johnson to build a purpose-driven
career that makes a difference; they stay with us to help create
healthier lives and improve the wellbeing of the patients, customers
and consumers we serve in our communities. Our Credo unifies
our global, multi-generational workforce around the purpose and
principles we’ve espoused since the beginning of our Company and
continues to inspire our diverse employees around the world.
We maintain a comprehensive strategy that is built around three
fundamental focus areas: attracting and recruiting the best and
most diverse talent; developing and retaining talent through a broad
array of learning and development experiences; and empowering
and inspiring our people through innovative engagement initiatives
and programs. Underpinning these focus areas are ongoing efforts
to cultivate and foster a culture built on diversity and inclusion,
innovation, health and wellbeing and employee safety across
our Company, where our employees are empowered to succeed
professionally and personally while helping us achieve our business
goals. Our Global Labor and Employment Guidelines confirm our
commitment to upholding the rights of employees as encompassed
by International Labor Organization conventions and United Nations
Global Compact Labor Principles.
Our Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer, is a
Corporate Officer and a member of the Johnson & Johnson Executive
Committee charged with overseeing Global Talent Management,
Global Benefits, Global Health Services and Worldwide Compensation
Resources.2018 Health for Humanity Report 63
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Key Achievements in 2018
• Marked the 75th anniversary of Our Credo while also
“ Our culture is rooted in the
introducing enhancements to modernize the language and
values embodied in Our Credo,
clarify our commitments.
which calls on us to support our
• Made significant progress on our HealthForce 2020 goals employees across their whole
in each of the core pillars and launched our Global Exercise lives – spiritual, mental, physical
Reimbursement program. and financial. Guided by this
principle, we provide thousands of
• Re-imagined hiring at Johnson & Johnson to allow for greater
individuals with the opportunity
transparency, improved efficiency and a stronger candidate
to build a varied and diverse
experience through new platforms.
career across the full spectrum of
Our responsibility to our
• Supported employee development by providing new tools, human health and the opportunity
employees in Our Credo
resources and experiences that are targeted at raising the to help advance our purpose of
performance and skill level of our people and supporting changing the trajectory of health "We are responsible to our employees,
continuous growth. for humanity. ” the men and women who work with us
throughout the world. Everyone must
Areas of Opportunity Peter M. Fasolo be considered as an individual. We must
• Further develop our workforce analytics capabilities to optimize Executive Vice President, Chief respect their dignity and recognize their
the diversity of our employees. Human Resources Officer, merit. They must have a sense of security
Johnson & Johnson in their jobs. Compensation must be fair
• Continue to globalize our employee resource groups and fully and adequate, and working conditions
deploy their business impact. clean, orderly and safe. We must be
mindful of ways to help our employees
• Optimize our SUMMIT learning management system for fulfill their family responsibilities.
capturing and categorizing our training and development Employees must feel free to make
opportunities. suggestions and complaints. There must
Our Credo Survey be equal opportunity for employment,
development and advancement for those
qualified. We must provide competent
90%
management, and their actions
must be just and ethical."
participation rate in Our Credo Survey
administered in
36 74
in
languages countries2018 Health for Humanity Report 64
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Attracting the Most Talented People
GRI 401 (103)
As a global business, our success tomorrow depends upon the process and overall experience. In 2018, for example, we
contribution of our people today. Our leaders must have the added 15 questions to the early application process to ensure
In 2018, we filled
ability to deliver on our objectives in the light of new trends prospective employees share the values expressed in Our
and developments—including new digital landscapes in Credo. 30,802
healthcare, emerging market growth and dynamic workforce
demographics, such as the rise of millennials—expected New agile hiring process: To continue to attract and retain positions
to comprise one-third of the global workforce by 2020.31 the best and most diverse people, we’re creating a new
51.61%
Gallup’s State of the Global Workplace Report (2017) shows holistic strategy to reimagine and redesign the end-to-end
that companies in the top quartile for employee engagement employee experience. Feedback on the hiring experience
are 17% more productive than those in the bottom quartile. At from hiring managers, Human Resource Partners, recruiters of new hires were women
Johnson & Johnson, we believe in attracting the most talented and applicants highlighted the need for greater visibility,
people, investing in their development and engaging them improved speed, more relevant candidates and a simpler,
to be their best, so that they can help lead our Company to a more intuitive process. In response, we launched the
future of better health for humanity. hire.jnj.com platform globally in 2018, providing data- and to innovation in our business.
driven analytics and innovative tools as the basis for a
Fair Compensation
Employee-Centered Experience faster, transparent, more agile process for managers to
hire candidates. Hire.jnj.com includes features such as We are committed to compensating our employees fairly and
Johnson & Johnson is one of the largest recruiters around
a dedicated online guide for recruiters, and the Credo offering the kinds of benefits that are relevant to meet the
the world, so it is important that we identify and attract
Assessment for candidates to reflect our culture and values needs of today’s employees and their families. Through our
talent to join us in a way that prioritizes the candidate
while providing potential candidates with a user-friendlier compensation framework, a set of core principles that guide
experience and maximizes efficiency and inclusiveness. We
application experience. all compensation decisions, we recognize the important
are continuously seeking new ways to improve our recruitment
contribution of our employees to delivering our mission in
New digital mobility platform: Given the breadth and scale ways that align with our values.
of Johnson & Johnson, it is natural that we have thousands of
people on the move at any given time. Settling in to a different
Our compensation principles
“ At Johnson & Johnson, each and every city or country, or even continent, can be a daunting task, so
in 2018, we launched Move. Move is a proprietary, integrated, Competitiveness: We aim to attract, retain and
employee plays a role in propelling us toward
digital platform that helps managers and employees stay in motivate high-performing employees and benchmark our
our purpose – and that all starts with ensuring
control of all relocation details—from handling expenses to compensation programs against industry peers to ensure we
we are attracting and retaining talent who
cultural awareness training to family considerations. A global offer competitive packages.
share our values and commitment to changing
the trajectory of health for humanity. ” relocation consultant is also on hand to provide guidance
Pay for performance: Base salary increases, annual bonuses
and support. Making mobility easier is an important way that
and long-term incentives are linked to performance at three
Dave Crutchfield, Global Head, People supports relocation and enables quick transitions into new
levels: individual, division and Enterprise.
Experience & HR Service Delivery, roles at Johnson & Johnson, wherever they are. We encourage
Johnson & Johnson cross-sector and regional movement, and view it as a crucial
Accountability for short- and long-term performance:
way for our employees to have new experiences and develop
Performance-based rewards and both short- and long-term
new insights, contributing to diversity of thought in our culture2018 Health for Humanity Report 65
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
A selection of employee benefits at global and/or local level*
Hiring Summary 2018 2017
Positions filled* 30,802 26,427
Health: Family:
External hires 21,309 18,143 • On-site health centers at 122 • Global Parental Leave including a
locations across the globe that minimum of 8 weeks for all new
Internal hires 9,493 8,284 provide immediate injury/illness care, parents
occupational health and personal
• Breast Milk Shipping
health coaching
* These metrics include only territories supported by the system "Talent Acquisition".
• Fertility, surrogacy assistance and
• On-site fitness centers and global
adoption benefits
exercise reimbursement
• Childcare benefits, including on-site
financial and strategic business results. and unified global Employee Assistance • EAP and WorkLife Services including
childcare centers, and emergency
Program (EAP) and WorkLife Services counseling with mental health
back-up care including children with
Alignment to shareholders’ interests: program. Starting in North America and professionals special needs
Performance-based compensation is gradually rolling out across the globe, this • Healthy eating options and support
aligned with both the interests of our program provides additional resources at our facilities' health screenings, • Pet insurance benefits
employees and the long-term interests of for employees and family members, cancer awareness and prevention
our shareholders. including a larger network of specialists, Financial health:
• Energy management and resilience
additional training and educational tools trainings • Pension/retirement plans
Pay equity: We are committed to pay equity,
and a more well-rounded approach to
including gender pay equity. We analyze our • Modified duty and support for • Retirement Savings Plan**
WorkLife balance, resiliency and stress
pay across functions and levels, and strive to returning to work after an injury or • Financial planning, including student
management. In the United States and
eliminate unconscious bias or other barriers illness loans**
Puerto Rico, we began piloting a resilience
to full pay equity across the Enterprise. app resource, designed to help employees • Access to International SOS for • Access to legal counseling
business travel, providing one-click
Employee Benefits GRI 401-2 tap into their most powerful selves by access to assistance, as well as • Enhanced military and first-responder
addressing their unique thinking styles, benefits**
medical and security alerts for your
To support our employee experience, we offering simple techniques to help build
business travel destinations. • Tuition reimbursement
seek to understand the entire lifecycle resilience and enhance their ability to
needs of our people at work, and help respond to stressful thoughts and situations. • Tobacco-free workplace and smoking * This is not an exhaustive list but
cessation support
enrich their lives and those of their loved Our aim is to support employees through representative of our overall benefits
ones with a holistic range of benefits, particularly stressful situations or concerns, • HIV/AIDS confidential testing and packages. Where possible, we apply
starting with health and wellbeing and including access to confidential short-term support benefits globally. However, local
extending to retirement planning and counseling, 24/7 online tools and resources, • Personal health assessment and regulation or market norms govern local
finances. and on-site crisis support. From work and personalized digital health tools practice.
** U.S. and Puerto Rico only.
relationship concerns, stress and anxiety, • Transgender-inclusive health
New global benefit introduced in 2018 to legal and financial consultation services, insurance coverage and same-sex
this resource is available to employees and partner benefits
To support our holistic health strategy and
their family members at no cost.
mental wellbeing, we launched an enhanced2018 Health for Humanity Report 66
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
New benefits introduced in the U.S in 2018
• To assist employees with managing work and
family commitments with the least possible
stress, especially when unplanned needs arise,
we offer Back-Up Dependent Care. Employees
can access up to 15 annual days of back-up
family care. New parents have access to 20
additional days of back-up care immediately
following return from parental leave.
• A new Student Loan Assistance Program
gives employees access to a web portal that
provides information on consolidating and
refinancing student loans, as well as coaching
with a counselor.
• Financial Wellness for Life is a free new benefit
designed to help employees better manage
their savings, debts, investments, retirement
planning and other financial needs. This service
offers group webinars or personal sessions
with financial coaches for employees, spouses
and partners.2018 Health for Humanity Report 67
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Global Workforce by Employment Type GRI 102-8 New Employee Hires GRI 401-1
Our Performance
2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
Global Workforce by Gender
Global workforce, full time New employee hires, by gender
47.05% Women 45.97% 45.31% 44.73% Women 51.61% 51.29% 51.14%
Women Men 54.03% 54.69% 55.25% Men 48.39% 48.71% 48.79%
Global workforce, part time
New employee hires, by age
52.95%
Under 30 83.62% 84.83% 84.78%
Under 30 47.12% 44.74% 46.49%
Men
30 - 50 16.38% 15.17% 15.20%
30 - 50 47.96% 47.55% 48.79%
50+ 4.92% 7.68% 4.72%
Global Workforce by Region GRI 102-8 Global Workforce by Region, by Gender GRI 102-8
New employee hires, by region
2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
Asia Pacific 30.11% 24.21% 24.04%
Asia Pacific 28,016 26,376 25,036 Global workforce, Asia Pacific
Europe, Middle
Europe, Middle East & Africa 43,494 43,636 42,436 Women 45.57% 43.77% 42.52% East & Africa 27.35% 24.83% 28.63%
Men 54.43% 56.23% 57.48%
Latin America 21,433 20,796 21,268 Latin America 16.88% 17.88% 19.56%
Global workforce, Europe, Middle East & Africa
North America 47,918 44,890 45,998 North America 25.66% 33.08% 27.76%
Women 48.47% 48.20% 47.51%
Total 140,861 135,698 134,738
* In 2018, we revised our calculation methodology to increase
Men 51.53% 51.80% 52.49% accuracy of reported percentages based on actual return to work
after parental leave ended.
Global workforce, Latin America
U.S. Employees Benefits GRI 401-3
Women 49.35% 48.55% 47.52%
2018 2017 2016
Men 50.65% 51.45% 52.40%
U.S. employees that took parental leave, by gender
Global workforce, North America
Women 44% 41% 48%
Women 45.59% 45.48% 45.69%
Men 56% 59% 52%
Men 54.41% 54.52% 54.31%
U.S. employees that returned to work after parental leave ended,
by gender*
Women 98% 98% 100%
Men 100% 99% 100%2018 Health for Humanity Report 68
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Creating Unique Career Opportunities
GRI 404 (103), 404-2
The opportunity to develop personally and professionally is a
core aspiration both for employees who have newly joined 30.82%
MyDevelopment resources
our organization and for those who have been part of the
available to all employees
Johnson & Johnson family for several years. We therefore deploy a of our new roles were filled by employees who
global approach to ensure development is for everyone, regardless developed within the organization in 2018, building
of where they are on their career journey. Our objective is to foster diversity of experiences
Let’s Develop global speaker series
a learning culture that helps shape each person’s unique career
showcases development best practices
path, and empower them to better contribute to achieving our
from external experts and internal
business objectives while creating a robust pipeline of talent to
44.2% thought leaders on a quarterly basis.
deliver our long-term strategies.
Development Month initiative leverages
At Johnson & Johnson, we believe development is for everyone. of managers32 and above moved across functions, the mid-year time point as an opportunity
We maintain an integrated, enterprise-wide approach to country or business segment lines for our employees to self-reflect and
human resources management and professional development, prioritize their healthiest careers and
empowering everyone to achieve their personal best at work. a network of global Development
Champions act at a local level to share
$90M
Personal and Professional Development development resources, plan local
activities and inspire employees to
Our development programs cover a full variety of learning
spent on employee learning and development make their development a priority all
methods, including on-the-job training, online courses, workshops
throughout the year.
and other experiential training. Our enterprise-wide learning
management system called SUMMIT is available to employees Development Month Champions
We believe that development is key to building a healthy career
globally. SUMMIT is an integrated portal offering self-enrollment in across the globe ensure awareness and
and we continuously look for ways to support our employees in
training programs and tracking of individual training progress and encourage participation in learning and
results. owning their development and growth, and in gaining access to the development opportunities and in our
people and tools that will help them do so. In 2018, we launched a “Let’s Develop” social media forum.
new global personal development platform called MyDevelopment.
With MyDevelopment, employees can build a Personalized
Development Framework around the three Es of Education,
“ Attracting, recruiting and retaining diverse
Exposure and Experience to create a balanced development plan
people who are globally-minded, agile and adaptable
to support their ongoing growth as they strive to build a healthy
is a way of keeping our organization healthy and
career.
innovative. A full span of talent management and
professional and leadership development programs Leadership Programs
underpin our retention strategies. ”
To help transform the future of health for humanity, we must have
Mary Lauria, Head, Global Talent Management, highly capable leaders across our business. To achieve this, we are
Johnson & Johnson transforming how we assess and develop people leaders.2018 Health for Humanity Report 69
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
“ The learnings they acquired and networks they built 1,851
Leadership and development
through the AEL program have enabled participants to
programs
introduce new innovations and improvements in the new leaders took our ELD Program in 2018, bringing the
business. Their mindsets shift to lean in, take risks, and total number of leaders trained to date to 4,459
own accountability to drive and lead innovation and
transformation. The impact is exponential. ” AEL (Accelerate Enterprise Leadership):
1,244 Vice presidents who aspire to more senior
Erica Desrosiers, Head, Accelerated Development, roles.
Johnson & Johnson U.S. and Puerto Rico employees participated in the tuition
AEO (Accelerate Executive Orientation):
reimbursement program
Newly promoted or externally hired vice
presidents to learn about expectations for
their role and their impact on the Enterprise.
We believe that every employee at Johnson & Johnson is a leader,
and our goal is to help employees realize this potential. Our Global TAP (Talent Acceleration Process): Current
Talent Management organization creates a consistent leadership directors preparing for vice president
development experience enterprise-wide. Our Leadership level. In 2018, we reached the level of
88% of directors who had participated in
Imperatives give our employees a clear and consistent way to lead
TAP. Representation of women in TAP has
Johnson & Johnson into the future, and deliver on our mission to
doubled since 2015.
change the trajectory of health for humanity.
Performance Development
ASCEND: Designed for mid-level female
We maintain a suite of leadership and development programs to We believe that performance deveopment should be an
leaders aiming to increase their leadership
accelerate the progress of individuals who have been identified ongoing process. impact.
through our succession planning processes as having the potential
to fulfill more senior leadership roles within the Enterprise. RISE: Mid-level U.S.-based racially and
ethnically diverse talent aiming to grow
All of these programs were conducted in 2018, reaching hundreds their leadership impact. This new program
of leaders around the organization. For example, vice presidents was launched in 2018.
joined the Accelerated Enterprise Leadership (AEL) program
IDP (International Development Program):
to target areas for development and growth to continue their
Mid-level leaders focused on developing
career progression. The program is designed to help participants core capabilities in another country.
lead effective internal change. It includes three residential
sessions, market visits, executive coaching assessments and an ELD (Enterprise Leader Development): For
action learning project, completed in collaboration with other a broader employee population, all newly
participants. In 2018, action learning projects in partnership with hired or promoted leaders are assigned to an
Johnson & Johnson Innovation JLABS focused on new business ELD program. ELD consists of two interactive
models and use of machine learning to solve pressing health and multi-week learning programs that establish
Formal Conversations standards of excellence for management
other challenges.
effectiveness and leadership development.
Ongoing Conversations and Feedback
In 2018, in response to results from our People Leader Effectiveness
survey, we delivered critical new learning content and resources
P&D
Planning
Mid-Year
Performance
Career
Planning
Year-End
Performance
Compensation
89%
of employees globally completed year-end
performance reviews in 2018
DEC - JAN JUNE - JULY JAN - FEB
     
2018 Health for Humanity Report 70
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
through our on-demand, digital platform, Leadership
Navigator, to raise the performance and skill level of our
people leaders around the globe. Leadership Navigator Our Performance
allows for a personalized learning journey with an on-demand
library of tools, supporting people leaders at the moments Year-End Performance Reviews Completed Spend on Employee Learning and Development by
that matter—whenever and wherever they need it. And, the by Job Category GRI 404-3 Category (millions)
Navigator now contains resources in 10 languages.
2018 2017 2016 2018
Performance Management
Vice President 1% 1% Not Reported Other professional skills $47
Employee performance at Johnson & Johnson is measured
in two dimensions, the “what” and the “how.” Our Manager & Director 28% 28% Not Reported General leadership training & assessments $22
Leadership Imperatives set the performance behavioral
expectations for all employees—the "how." The Leadership Professional 62% 61% Not Reported E-learning $7
Imperatives give our employees across all geographies,
Other* 9% 10% Not Reported Executive coaching $6
businesses,
roles and levels a clear and consistent way to lead the
Overall for all employees 89% 88% 81% Other $8
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies into the future.
All our employees formally discuss their progress and plan Total $90
their professional development with their managers five
times each year, in our Five Conversations framework, Employee Turnover * Category includes employees that don’t have a merit plan as
which is in addition to informal, ongoing discussions 2018 part of their compensation package.
throughout the balance of the year. This ensures that
personal development is progressed effectively and benefits Overall voluntary turnover 7.8%
from meaningful support throughout the year.
Voluntary turnover of high performers 3.9%
Overall performance in year-end conversations include
assessing business results achieved, the degree to which
our leadership behaviors were demonstrated, and further
development options. Manager bonuses are linked to
leadership performance as well as business results.2018 Health for Humanity Report 71
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Engaging, Empowering & Inspiring
GRI 413 (103), 413-1
At Johnson & Johnson, we understand the workforce of the future
will need an innovative mindset, the ability to think through a
global lens, and a diverse set of experiences and skill sets. We “ At Johnson & Johnson we have two core value TEDxJNJ
believe in inspiring our employees to aim high and dream big, propositions for our employees that help engage and
and encourage them to play an active role in helping change the inspire them. The first is Our Credo, which is deeply Quick Facts
trajectory of health for humanity. We engage, empower and inspire embedded in our culture as a set of positive social
our employees by fostering a work culture where everyone can values, and the second is our purpose to change
First Event:
make their voice heard by providing platforms for employees to the trajectory of health for humanity. We add what
Nov. 2011
express their creativity, and through opportunities for employees to employees need to feel empowered: tools to do the
make a meaningful contribution to address social or environmental job, supportive leadership, professional development
challenges. and more. ” in Princeton, NJ
Fostering a Connected Culture Paul Anthony, Head, Global Total Rewards and Human Total number of events to
Capital Strategy, Johnson & Johnson year-end 2018:
Our organization-wide communication processes include town hall-
76 events
style meetings at global, local or functional level, and sharing of news
through many channels, including our One J&J news hub digital daily
in 19 countries
digests and electronic communications from senior leaders.
through daily actions. The Executive Committee led in-depth
conversations on each paragraph, discussing with employees how
In addition to multiple two-way communication channels with our Number of events in 2018:
we are living our values, where we can show up stronger for those
employees at all levels of the business, we conduct global surveys 20 events
we serve, and how we can continue to improve human health for
that enable our employees to speak out about any aspect of their
generations to come. At the first annual Credo Day celebration
work and relationships at Johnson & Johnson, providing us with across 13 countries
on December 13, more than 30,000 employees around the world
valuable insight to help address potential human resources risks and
participated in a Global Town Hall, attended unique celebrations,
identify opportunities to improve. Total speakers to year-end 2018:
and joined outreach efforts to bring the spirit of Our Credo to their
more than
In 2018, Johnson & Johnson marked the 75th anniversary of Our local communities.
530 videos
Credo, the set of values that ground and guide the decision making
Creative Engagement
of our leaders and employees around the world, by taking the
opportunity to reengage employees in a meaningful way around Our Since 2011, we maintain our Office of Creative Engagement
Credo. Through a sustained six-month program, employees were (OCE) as a platform for empowering our employees to develop
challenged to expand their understanding of our commitments, themselves and their ideas. OCE encourages employees to think
reflect and engage in open conversations about opportunities to outside the realm of day-to-day operations to develop and advance
better live Our Credo, and take ownership of their responsibility innovative concepts. To facilitate engagement across our global2018 Health for Humanity Report 72
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
enterprise, the OCE provides frameworks, tools and support our communities around the world and offer practical assistance to
for employees wishing to get creative and drive higher levels help make a positive difference in healthcare everywhere.
of engagement. Our various policies and offerings around the globe seek to
More
encourage volunteerism in all regions and at all levels by providing
One of the most popular tools that OCE offers is TEDxJNJ. Johnson & Johnson employees a range of opportunities in which Resources
Anyone can propose a TEDxJNJ event and, once the event they can actively contribute and participate. For example, we
is accepted by OCE, can engage a group of colleagues to go support skill-based volunteering in the community with a policy of
about planning, preparing and bringing the agenda to life. providing paid leave to cover the volunteer period; this is currently Hear from Global Pro Bono volunteers
The speakers at TEDxJNJ events are Johnson & Johnson being offered to employees in the United States and Puerto Rico. on the Johnson & Johnson blog
employees who have a personal or professional story to
tell that can be a source of inspiration for others, with an
Talent for Good – connecting employee purpose to
occasional external speaker taking part in some events.
company purpose Hear from Johnson & Johnson
The TEDxJNJ audience is made up of Johnson & Johnson
employees. TEDxJNJ has become a safe place to listen, At the higher end of the scale, for employees who are prepared to employees taking part in the
learn, reflect, share, inspire and engage, and a platform for take on and experience an immersive, transformative skills-based Secondment Program
unleashing creativity among the best minds in our Company. opportunity, we offer Global Pro Bono programs and Johnson &
Many senior leaders at Johnson & Johnson speak at, attend Johnson Secondments.
or sponsor TEDxJNJ events. Our library of TEDxJNJ video
The Global Pro Bono program that piloted in 2017 expanded
talks is a permanent record of many inspiring stories and is
to 21 participants in 2018, who shared their skills to help seven
available to all employees on our online portal.
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) in Chile, Colombia and
Engaging Employees in Communities Puerto Rico run more efficiently, overcome unique hurdles and
better reach their goals. As part of the program in Chile,
Firmly behind our purpose of changing the trajectory of
Johnson & Johnson employees partnered with IBM to leverage
health for humanity, our employees are proud to engage in
their core capabilities in IT and healthcare to support three
“ I found that TEDxJNJ gave me a new lease on life and helped me face my fears of speaking about such a hard topic. I have
been on a personal mission to fight modern slavery – both in terms of eliminating human trafficking and in terms of making
changes in our consumeristic behaviors that create the conditions for modern slavery to thrive. We should all be aware of the
changes we can and must make to prevent exploitation – we are one humanity. Since being invited to talk at TEDxJNJ, I have
been overwhelmed by the amount of interest and support I have received, including invitations to speak at other events. Overall,
I have reached more than 2,300 people with my talks on this subject. TEDxJNJ was my first platform and it gave me courage and
a new freedom to continue to pursue my passion to create lasting change. ”
Elisa Torres, Marketing Manager, Ethicon Biosurgery2018 Health for Humanity Report 73
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
organizations focused on strengthening community resilience
and disaster preparedness in the capital city of Santiago. We also 2,571
introduced a remote pro bono program in 2018, Talent for Healthy
More
Community, connecting the unique talents and expertise of our
employees with local community partners to address their critical employees across the globe spent Resources
capacity building needs.
8,332
The Johnson & Johnson Secondment Program, now in its sixth Read the impressive stories of each of
year, offers Johnson & Johnson employees the opportunity to volunteer hours to support STEM2D in 2018 these scholars
share their skills, experiences and talent with eight NGO partner
organizations across 25 countries in the Europe, Middle East and
Africa region serving in long-term assignments (up to six months).
All Secondees receive one-on-one coaching from Johnson &
364
Johnson retirees and mentoring guidance from program alumni
before, during and after their Secondment.
employees across the globe spent
Building Young Leadership Capacity Across the Globe 10,034
The Johnson & Johnson One Young World Program builds the
capacity of young leaders across the globe to change the trajectory volunteer hours to support Bridge to Employment in 2018
of health for humanity. Since 2013, Johnson & Johnson has
partnered with One Young World (OYW) to connect hundreds of
young change makers from both within and outside of
healthier world within the Company. In 2018, Johnson & Johnson
Johnson & Johnson to unique opportunities to formulate innovative
sent its largest delegation to date to the OYW Summit in The
solutions to the world’s most pressing health issues. For young
Hague, The Netherlands.
health leaders outside of the Company, the global partnership
includes scholarships and professional coaching from Johnson &
Johnson executives, in addition to mentorship for participating Advancing Women in Science
Johnson & Johnson employees to act on their passion for a
Building a diverse STEM2D (Science, Technology, Engineering,
Math, Manufacturing and Design) community supports the
Johnson & Johnson WiSTEM2D
acceleration of women as global leaders of innovation to improve
volunteers at Stuart School in New
health and wellbeing, and drive sustainable economic growth.
Empowering young leaders Jersey, where Johnson & Johnson
Johnson & Johnson launched the WiSTEM2D program in 2015 to Consumer Inc. R&D female leaders
across the globe through the
increase the representation of women in science and technical hosted workshops and demonstrated
Johnson & Johnson One Young fields. Many Johnson & Johnson employees volunteer to review virtual reality tools for surgeon training
World Program applications for the award, in support of this program. In 2018, to engage girls in science.
we announced an inaugural group of recipients of the WiSTEM2D
Scholars Award. Each received $150,000 in funding and three years
of mentorship from Johnson & Johnson leaders and members2018 Health for Humanity Report 74
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
of the Awards’ Advisory Board, which includes Board of Director
member Mary Beckerle, Ph.D. We Sustain 2018 Facts
“ Being part of the We Sustain Network, and winning
a Sustainability Accelerator Grant, helped me to 405
Creating our healthcareprofessionals of the future with a
propagate my idea for greener research labs until it
Bridge to Employment
grew into something way bigger than I imagined.
entries from teams across all
For 25 years, Johnson & Johnson employees have been helping The group helped me to build my network within
geographies and businesses
prepare high school students from disadvantaged communities Johnson & Johnson and outside of Johnson & Johnson,
to stay in school, enroll in higher education and pursue a career from the U.S., to Europe, and even to China. ” 13
in the health sector. Launched in 1992, our Bridge to Employment
initiative in partnership with non-profit FHI360, has helped Afton Hiscox, Associate Scientist II, Discovery
young people improve school attendance, enhance academic Chemistry, Janssen Research & Development, LLC project finalists
achievements, and gain awareness of higher education and career
possibilities in healthcare.
Engaging Employees for the Environment
At Johnson & Johnson, we understand that human health is A selection of the winning We Sustain entries
inextricably linked to environmental health—you can’t have healthy
people without a healthy planet. Our environmental sustainability
engagement program, We Sustain, mobilizes our employees to
share ideas and collaborate to improve the environmental health • Diversion of wastewater to off-site beneficial reuse
of the places where we live, work and sell our products. Over as chemical feedstock to reduce hazardous waste to
1,000 employees from across the globe have joined We Sustain; landfill by more than 1 million lbs. annually
they network with like-minded individuals, working to protect the
• Regrinding and reusing machine tools to avoid waste
environment and human health. Employees can volunteer in the
community, deliver engagement activities, and submit and share • Developing automatic cycles for injection molding Students from the Bridge to Employment
program play interactive team building
ideas through the We Sustain website and our Global Sustainability machines to reduce energy use
exercises.
community engagement platform.
• Installing new equipment to separate waste and reduce Photo credit: Jessica Scranton
Employees are encouraged to share their sustainability ideas during volume of space it requires for storage by 90%
the Johnson & Johnson We Sustain Sustainability Accelerator
• Reusing waste that is normally discarded, such as
Grants challenge. Employees who submit sustainability ideas
shampoo residue to car washing products
with the potential to be replicated and scaled throughout the
organization receive funding of between $5,000 and $50,000 to
build out their ideas.2018 Health for Humanity Report 75
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Advancing Diversity & Inclusion
GRI 405 (103
Today’s rapidly changing world requires new and innovative In 2018, we continued to progress on D&I by further
thinking and solutions. The intertwining strands of change in implementing our D&I strategy, which focuses on three pillars:
healthcare, patient and consumer demographics and the workplace advance a culture of inclusion and innovation, build a diverse
More
pose challenges and opportunities for Johnson & Johnson. These workforce of the future, and enhance business performance and
can only be met by using diversity and inclusion (D&I) as a key reputation. The strategy starts with helping our people discover Resources
lever to drive innovation and business results. D&I enables us to ways of working that foster a deep sense of belonging—for
better understand and connect with our diverse and multicultural themselves, for their teams, for Johnson & Johnson. This
patients, customers and consumers—so we can better serve them enables us to further a culture that can fully leverage the diverse Learn more about the
every day. mindsets, experiences and skills of our people and improve progress we are making in D&I at
health for billions of people. Johnson & Johnson
We know that bringing our diverse backgrounds, cultures, and
perspectives together is the way to solve today’s complex health At Johnson & Johnson, D&I is built into the fabric of our
problems. Our Credo outlines our responsibility to create an DNA and has always been critical to our success in delivering
inclusive environment and respect the dignity and diversity of all quality health solutions and innovations to the billions of
people. This makes D&I everyone’s responsibility—that of every people we serve around the world. Our commitment to
employee around the globe. Empowering everyone at Johnson D&I starts at the top with our Chairman and CEO, who
Diversity in Upward Promotions
& Johnson to perform at their best while being themselves is holds his senior leaders accountable for progress against
fundamental to our continued success. That is why we strategically their D&I strategies, and drives this commitment through
approach D&I as we would any other business imperative. the organization by embedding D&I in his employee 50.9%
communications and engagements. We have systems of
accountability through a variety of programs and controls, Women
20,318
business reviews and our performance management system.
Our leaders role-model inclusive behaviors by holding 49.1%
employees engaged in ERGs conversations with employees around mitigating unconscious
Men
bias, including D&I in town halls and communications, and
by serving as executive sponsors for our Employee Resource
240 Groups (ERGs). In fact, every member of the Executive
Committee sponsors an ERG. D&I is both who we are and
what we do; it’s how we work every day.
U.S. ERG Chapters
64
non-U.S. ERG Chapters2018 Health for Humanity Report 76
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Our Performance
Age Diversity by Job Category Gender Diversity by Job Category GRI 405-1
2018 2017 2016
2018 2017 2016
Vice Presidents
Vice Presidents
Under 30 --% --% 0.1%
Women 35.0% 33.1% 31.9%
30 - 50 46.6% 45.6% 45.9%
Men 65.0% 66.9% 68.1%
50+ 53.4% 54.4% 54.0%
Managers and Directors
Managers and Directors
Women 45.6% 44.7% 43.8%
Under 30 1.4% 1.3% 1.3%
Men 54.4% 55.3% 56.2%
30 - 50 73.9% 74.3% 74.7%
Professionals
50+ 24.7% 24.4% 23.9%
Women 48.5% 47.2% 48.9%
Professionals
Men 51.5% 52.8% 51.1%
Under 30 21.4% 20.8% 19.5%
30 - 50 61.7% 62.3% 65.4%
Women in Executive and Management Positions*
50+ 17.0% 17.0% 15.1%
2018
Women in management
45.3%
positions
The Board Diversity Women in executive positions 14.3%
2018 2017 2016
Women on the Board 27% 20% 20% * Executives defined as employees reporting directly to the Chairman
& CEO; management position defined as paygrade 30 and above.
Minorities on the Board 27% 30% 30%2018 Health for Humanity Report 77
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Our Performance, cont.
Ethnic Diversity in the U.S. by Job Category Ethnic Diversity of New Hires in the U.S. by Job Category
2018 2017 2016 2018
Vice Presidents Vice Presidents
White 74.9% 76.0% 79.4% White 90.3%
Minority 25.1% 24.0% 20.1% Asian 9.7%
Asian 10.4% Not Reported Not Reported Black/African American – %
Black/African Hispanic/Latino – %
6.6% Not Reported Not Reported
American
Other – %
Hispanic/Latino 7.7% Not Reported Not Reported
Managers and Directors
Other 0.4% Not Reported Not Reported
White 65.6%
Managers and Directors
Asian 20.8%
White 70.7% 71.5% 74.2%
Black/African American 5.8%
Minority 29.3% 28.5% 25.8%
Hispanic/Latino 6.5%
Asian 16.5% Not Reported Not Reported
Black/African Other 1.3%
4.9% Not Reported Not Reported
American
Professionals
Hispanic/Latino 6.9% Not Reported Not Reported
White 63.0%
Other 1.1% Not Reported Not Reported
Asian 16.2%
Professionals
Black/African American 7.7%
White 68.4% 68.8% 77.2%
Hispanic/Latino 10.3%
Minority 31.6% 31.2% 22.8%
Other 2.8%
Asian 12.0% Not Reported Not Reported
Black/African
7.3% Not Reported Not Reported
American
Hispanic/Latino 10.7% Not Reported Not Reported
Other 1.7% Not Reported Not Reported2018 Health for Humanity Report 78
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Providing Safe Workplaces
GRI 403 (103)
Workplace safety is a core value at Johnson & Johnson. We believe
that with the right awareness, focus, practices and tools, we can
OHSAS
ensure that all our employees around the world, as well as temporary “ There is nothing more fundamental about our
contractors and visitors to our sites, can work safely at all times. responsibility to our employees than our promise to
Our approach extends beyond staying safe at work—we offer and provide them a safe place to work. This cannot be
We encourage third-party certification
encourage use of safety tips beyond the workplace, striving to done only with engineering controls and by enforcing
to the Occupational Health and Safety
inspire a safe mindset all day, every day, contributing to safer families rules and regulations. This requires a partnership
Assessment Series management system
and a safer society. between our company and our employees – to (OHSAS 18000). In 2018, 32% of our
work together to ensure that safety is top-of-mind manufacturing and R&D sites were
Our Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) Policy and Worldwide for every employee in everything they do. It’s this certified to OHSAS.*
Environmental Health, Safety & Sustainability Standards (EHS&S people-centric safety culture we reinforce each day
Standards), set the requirements for our health, safety and that enables us to have such excellent workplace * OHSAS certification for companies acquired
environmental practices at our facilities, off-site work locations safety outcomes. In 2018, we amplified our culture of after reporting year 2015 are excluded.
around the world and all our employees, contractors and visitors. safety by designating one month as safety month with
The Johnson & Johnson Executive Committee and the Board of enterprise-wide communications and activities aimed
Directors’ Regulatory Compliance Committee review health and at engaging employees in a safety all day, every day
safety performance annually. mindset, whether at work, at home or on the road. ”
As a minimum, we comply with all applicable safety laws and Paulette Frank, Vice President,
regulations wherever we operate. However, our EHS&S Standards go EHS and Sustainability, Johnson & Johnson
beyond the minimum to establish a culture of safety in which every
individual takes personal responsibility and accountability for their
own safety and that of those around them.
hazards that, if not controlled, can lead to severe events, including
Our Safety Culture Roadmap fatalities. The LSRs are included within the EHS&S Standards. The
Johnson & Johnson understands the importance of shaping a strong Standard requires that employees and contractors are informed
safety culture that empowers individuals and teams to extend their about and adhere to the Johnson & Johnson LSRs.
efforts beyond compliance to holistic safety risk management.
Finally, employees at all levels shape the working environment by
Cultural cornerstones include leader involvement, focusing on risks
proactively identifying and reporting behaviors or conditions that
that can result in serious injury, and empowering employees to
can lead to injury.
report safety concerns. Leaders, influencers and technical specialists
are given the opportunity to enhance safety processes through the
Leveraging leading indicators of safety—such as Good Saves,
Integrated Ownership of Safety Systems (IOSS) program. Awareness
where our entire population is encouraged to recognize, report,
of risks that have significant consequences for injury are reinforced
and resolve hazards—is a key enabler of our strong safety results.
through Life Saving Rules (LSRs), a set of rules that identify what
Our Good Saves program called "See Something, Say Something,
Johnson & Johnson has determined to be the most critical safety
Do Something" creates awareness and focus on these hazards,2018 Health for Humanity Report 79
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
and helps drive risk reduction by proactively risk-assessing and Advancing our safety culture in Brazil
addressing hazardous situations. In addition to recognizing overall
From 2012 to 2016, after four amputations involving fingers and a Safety All Day website
hazards, we have a process for recognizing and separating out high-
contractor fatality, our São José dos Campos (SJC) Campus decided
hazard situations that could result in Severe Injury or Fatality (SIF).
to take a different journey to eradicate severe injuries. These
Engaging Employees in Safety incidents awakened the need for a transformation in each one of SJC Our website offers tools and resources
employees. We initiated the SJC Safety Culture Evolution Project. for employees and their families, focusing
We provide a suite of training programs for EHS&S professionals Out of an initial assessment performed by external partners, gaps on safety practices at work, at home and
and all employees across Johnson & Johnson at the Enterprise, were identified, and action plans put in place. All focused in the on the road.
regional, campus and site levels, as well as field sales and service process to bring Safety Culture to a benchmarking level.
groups. We also manage and track the safety of contractors Check it out at: safetyallday.com
at our sites: large capital construction projects follow a formal After two years and the completion of the first wave of this five-year
construction safety plan. journey, our employees from SJC Campus in Brazil are fully engaged
in Safety Culture. A major turnaround has been achieved, validated
In 2018, we held our first-ever enterprise-wide Safety Month to through a new assessment performed by an external partner in the
provide a focused period of awareness, education and collaboration third quarter of 2018. Activities from the shop floor to the senior
for improved safety practice, engaging employees from across management level in the region were key to this turnaround, and “ AIP Foundation has been trying
the Company in our offices, in the field, in our labs and on the proved how leadership engagement is critical to success. Leaders our best to bring high-quality
production floor. As part of Safety Month 2018, employees from now understand that demonstration of their commitment and helmets and useful road safety
around the world pledged to have a “safety all day every day” personal values is imperative to a Safety Culture evolution. Results knowledge for Vietnamese children.
mindset at work, at home and on the go. include no severe events or Lost Workday Cases (LWDC) at the SJC Danger can appear anywhere,
anytime, and child fatality rates from
Campus.
road accidents keep increasing.
With the long-term commitment
from Johnson & Johnson, we hope
to expand this meaningful project
and create a safer road to school for
children. ”
Audience Safety Training Delivery Method Sample Topics
Hoang Thi Na Huong, Deputy CEO of
AIP Foundation
Enterprise Level Webinars, e-learning, group projects, face- Machine safety, IOSS, Permit-to-Work, Warehouse Safety,
to-face sessions Behind the Wheel fleet safety training
Regional and Campus Level, Webinars, e-learning, face-to-face sessions Tailored to address issues important and relevant to the
including Contractors, Field specific regional and campus level needs, also for capability
Sales and Service Groups building, complying with national and local regulations,
maintaining and improving safety and environmental practices
EHS&S Professionals Webinars, e-learning Leadership, communications, and other
management skills2018 Health for Humanity Report 80
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Road Safety
Our road safety vision is for drivers around the world to
return home safely at the end of each day. We emphasize the Global Safety Performance GRI 403-2 Safety Performance by Region
importance of fostering safe driving behaviors while driving 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
for work as well as during leisure time, and we provide both
tools and education to our drivers through our “SAFE FLEET” Lost Workday Case rate* 0.08 0.08 0.08 Lost Workday Case rate*
initiative. A key area of focus is prevention of road safety
Asia Pacific 0.05 0.04 0.06
crashes through the advanced use of available technology.
Total Recordable Injury rate 0.41 0.36 0.44
Telematics programs are available to drivers in Israel, Japan,
Europe, Middle East
Mexico, Portugal, and the United States. We also operate a 0.05 0.04 0.05
& Africa
Serious Injury and Illness
Virtual Risk Manager (VRM) fleet safety management system 0.05 0.05 0.05
Case rate
to capture data and analyze driver risk levels in the United Latin America 0.11 0.03 0.04
States and Canada including several European countries such
as France, the UK, Italy and Spain. Number of fatalities 2 0 1 North America 0.10 0.14 0.13
Our commitment to road safety extends to advancing road Crashes Per Million Miles Total Recordable Injury rate
5.81 5.94 6.03
safety not only with our internal driver population, but also (CPMM) rate**
within the communities in which we operate. In 2018, our Asia Pacific 0.17 0.12 0.17
partnership with AIP Foundation on the Helmets for Kids Injuries Per Million Miles 0.07 0.07 0.08
(IPMM) rate** Europe, Middle East
program celebrated seven years of providing life-saving road 0.29 0.26 0.39
& Africa
safety knowledge and skills to vulnerable road users in low-
and middle-income countries such as Vietnam.
Latin America 0.43 0.31 0.44
* “Lost days” are calendar days counted beginning the day after an
Our Performance incident has taken place.
North America 0.57 0.56 0.59
** CPMM and IPMM rates are based on SAFE FLEET data. Rate
In 2018, there were two fleet motor vehicle fatalities, which
calculation methodology uses both actual and estimated data on miles
occurred in July and August respectively within our Janssen Serious Injury and Illness Case rate
driven. We collect SAFE FLEET data on employees who drive
Americas sales force. While no systemic deviations from our company-owned or -leased, and personally owned vehicles for
Asia Pacific 0.01 0.03 0.03
SAFE FLEET program were identified, we continue to elevate Company business. Employees in the latter category are those who:
the importance of road safety across our entire employee 1) drive for Company business as a “regular part” of their job, and 2)
Europe, Middle East
population. With over 30,000 company-owned, leased and car receive a car allowance to purchase their own vehicle, and/or are 0.02 0.02 0.02
& Africa
allowance vehicles driven by Johnson & Johnson employees reimbursed for vehicle expenses such as fuel, maintenance, insurance
under our SAFE FLEET program, driving safety is taken very and other miscellaneous charges associated with vehicle upkeep. Latin America 0.01 0.03 0.03
seriously. In addition to reinforcing the measures put in place
to reduce risks of driving through our SAFE FLEET initiative, North America 0.09 0.10 0.08
we extended safe driving tips to our employees through our
Safety All Day, Every Day website.2018 Health for Humanity Report 81
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Championing Health & Wellness
J&J-4 (GRI 103)
Our investment in employee health and wellbeing is built on our
conviction that advancing health for humanity starts with advancing
the health of our own people so that they can be at their personal “ With the 75th anniversary of Our Credo, we took ON TRACK
best every day. Our commitment, led by our Global Health Services the opportunity to reinforce our commitment by
Vice President, includes the following elements: adding the acknowledgement that we must support the 2020 Goal Progress
health and wellbeing of our employees. For us, having a
• Training employees in the principles of ENERGY FOR healthy workforce means helping employees, families 50,200 employees completed
PERFORMANCE, a training program developed by the and communities live well across their whole lives— ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE
Johnson & Johnson Human Performance Institute. training.
spiritual, mental, emotional, physical and financial—
enabling an engaged, purpose-driven workforce. ” 96,753 employees engaged in health
• Supporting healthy choices and healthier lives through
our HealthForce 2020 campaign, including ENERGY FOR and wellbeing via the use of digital
Jennifer Bruno, Vice President, Global Health Services,
PERFORMANCE, HEALTHY & ME and Healthy Eating, Healthy health tools since 2016.
Johnson & Johnson
Movement, and Healthy Mind.
117,132 and 121,446 employees
• Providing medical care with on-site clinics staffed with provided access to 70% implemented
healthcare professionals. healthy eating and healthy movement
• Creating healthy work environments designed to promote healthy training, equipment and dedicated spaces, as well as support cultures, respectively.
lifestyles at work, including our Workplace Innovation program.
services. We continue to roll out policies to support HealthForce
View Scorecard
• Building or renovating offices and sites based on green building 2020 across our global organization. One example is our Global
principles. Healthy Mind Policy, which outlines the expected approaches and
resources/programs required to support mental wellbeing. Further,
Healthy Workforce Program
we’ve established programs designed to raise awareness of mental
We created an internal campaign, HealthForce 2020, to engage all wellbeing in the workplace, and provide a robust set of resources
5B
employees and business leaders in achieving our Enterprise goals and support to employees.
in support of becoming the healthiest workforce. This integrated, steps collectively logged during the
Company-wide program continually highlights areas we’re making A 2018 analysis of human resources data showed an association 30-day global activity challenge.
changes around our workplace to help make the healthy choice the between ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE training and positive Joining together from around the
easy choice. We continue to improve our sites with offerings like free employee performance outcomes. Additionally, ENERGY FOR world, our employees increased their
fruit, healthier food options, healthy beverages, access to movement PERFORMANCE course graduates gave higher scores in response movement by 22%.
opportunities, and convenient resources to keep us connected to our to questions on “work life balance,” “Johnson & Johnson supports
health. We encourage walking meetings and energy breaks, and with a healthy lifestyle” and “a great place to work” in our workplace
ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE training, we’re working to expand our surveys. To provide continuous learning in energy management for
energy and be our best, at work and at home. our employees who have completed ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE,
we introduced a new one-day training called “Reignited” to enable
These initiatives and resources support our focus on three core ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE course graduates to discover new
health pillars—Healthy Eating, Healthy Movement and Healthy strategies to help them be at their best when it counts. We are
Mind—deploying educational resources, digital tools, assessments, encouraged with the uptake around the world by our employees
seeking to reignite the power of this program.2018 Health for Humanity Report 82
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
We continue to work toward our goal of
connecting 100,000 employees to our 11
Healthcare Clinics HEALTHY & ME digital
digital platform, HEALTHY & ME. In May
health platform
2018, participants, including spouses and workplace projects, improving
partners, engaged in our Wander the workplace environments for more
We maintain 122 fully staffed on-site
Wonders global activity challenge. With than 5,000 employees in more healthcare clinics in more than 35 HEALTHY & ME is available to
teams of up to eight, employees set out than 10 countries in 2018 countries across all regions of our approximately 97% of our employee
on a 30-day virtual journey via HEALTHY business. We are continuously improving population in 72 countries and in 16
& ME to explore eight new wonders of and expanding these facilities to provide languages, and to spouses and partners
the world simply by moving. The more 69 the best care for our employees. in 41 countries. Users of the app can
employees moved, the further they went track their sleep, food intake and steps.
on their journey around the world to new Employees can also use the app to
workplace innovation projects
access personalized health and fitness
wonders and a healthier self.
completed since 2010
programs or connect with other health-
Workplace Innovation Workplace Wellness, minded colleagues.
Innovation and High
We maintain workspaces designed to 52
Performance
promote healthy lifestyles, employee
engagement and collaborative working.
Johnson & Johnson buildings Even healthier in 2019 – new
Our Workplace Innovation Program,
are LEED-certified, totaling 7.9 benefit for all employees
established in 2010, helps us better design million square feet, or 12.6% of all We continue to increase the number of
our environments to support workplace building space Johnson & Johnson offices that score
as “high performing” in the Leesman®
activity, create shared and “unassigned”
Workplace Effectiveness Index, a survey In 2018, we announced a new global
work space for greater flexibility, offer
that assesses 21 dimensions of how employee exercise reimbursement
healthy working environments, enhance into one location for all our local functions. our workplace supports our people. In program, available to all full- and part-
employees’ working experience, and For more than 800 employees, the change 2018, 34 Johnson & Johnson offices time employees in 2019, following the
inspire an innovative and engaged work offered a new level of comfort, designed to achieved the “high performing” score. U.S. launch in October 2018. Upon proof
culture. Our workplaces incorporate provide the optimum workplace experience We correlate workplace innovation to of use, we will provide a reimbursement
elements that support physical and aligned with the science of wellbeing. The employee performance. Since 2010, we of up to $400 a year to support the
emotional health, such as on-site fitness program delivered variety and choice with have seen an improvement of 11.47% cost of fitness center membership fees
centers, first aid rooms, outdoor activity natural daylight, private and quiet options, in employee satisfaction as a result of or classes, personal training sessions,
areas, nurture and faith rooms, rooms sit/stand desks, decompression massage workplace innovation projects. organized races and more. Employees
can enjoy this benefit in addition to our
for counseling and employee assistance, chairs, low-impact exercise spaces and
on-site fitness centers, helping each of
and child development centers. We also many more elements that encourage both
us do more of what we enjoy and stay
adopt green building design principles in physical and mental health. In addition to active at our convenience. This benefit
planning or renovating our workplaces positive feedback from managers and staff, is easily accessible through HEALTHY &
to further enhance the health, safety, the project achieved a score of 82.3 on the ME; digital access makes providing proof
wellbeing and productivity of our people. Leesman® Workplace Effectiveness Index, of usage easy with features like “checking
joining several other Johnson & Johnson in” at your local fitness center.
In Bogota, Colombia, in 2018, we took the locations achieving a “high performing”
opportunity to completely transform our workplace rating.
office space as we consolidated our offices2018 Health for Humanity Report 83
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Responsible Business Practices
Responsible business practices serve as the foundation of our
Company’s success and are imperative to protecting the broader
healthcare system and the communities in which we live and work.
We nurture a culture of ethical leadership and integrity in our diverse,
skilled workforce committed to serving all those who count on us to
provide high-quality, safe and reliable products. Whether we are seeking
to protect the data and privacy of our patients and consumers, being
transparent about our business activities, engaging with suppliers
or assessing options for safe, ethical and patient-centered decision
making, we seek to sustain the trust earned over the course of more
than 130 years of business operations.
Key Achievements in 2018
• Co-led development of connect4children (c4c), a project to create a
pan-European clinical trial network by 2024 to facilitate the conduct
of pediatric clinical trials in the EU.
• Advanced to “Trendsetter” status on the Center for Political
Accountability’s CPA-Zicklin Index, which the organization deems as
those companies most transparent.
• Enrolled 61% of top-spend suppliers in our Sustainable Procurement
Program.
Areas of Opportunity
• Advance our holistic approach to ongoing human rights due diligence
process by conducting an enterprise-level mapping of salient human
rights issues.
• Integrate environmental, social and governance measures into the
update of our Enterprise Risk Management framework.2018 Health for Humanity Report 84
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Product Quality, Safety & Reliability
We are committed to upholding product quality, safety
and reliability (PQSR) in line with Our Credo values and in
compliance with applicable laws and regulations in countries
where we operate. We partner with healthcare authorities,
government agencies and industry and advocacy groups on
matters relating to PQSR to continue raising the bar across
the healthcare industry. Our approach is founded on:
• Adhering to Johnson & Johnson quality and safety
standards that apply to all operations globally;
• Focusing on quality and safety at each phase of the
product lifecycle;
• Driving continuous improvement and innovation;
• Ensuring supply chain integrity for brand protection; and
• Maintaining a proactive quality and safety excellence
culture throughout the Enterprise.
Millions of patients, consumers and healthcare professionals
around the world place their trust in Johnson & Johnson
products. They expect our medicines, medical devices and
personal care products to be of the highest standards in
quality, safety and reliability. Our commitment to quality,
safety and reliability is the foundation for everything we do.2018 Health for Humanity Report 85
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Quality Management Framework It is the responsibility of every employee to adhere to the reinforcing the benefit of our size and diversity of experiences
principles set forth in this enterprise-wide Core Objective, and expertise.
GRI 416-2, J&J-9 (103)
and such principles are embedded in our evaluation and
Quality is a fundamental value of our products. compensation processes. Quality Policy and Standards
We believe our patients and consumers deserve consistent, Our Quality Policy and Quality Standards define the
Led by the Chief Quality Officer, our global Quality &
reliable and high quality every time they use or experience requirements that our operating companies across
Compliance (Q&C) organization, functionally independent
a Johnson & Johnson product. We work hard to make this Johnson & Johnson must achieve to design, make and
from commercial interests, has harmonized quality
happen by instilling and maintaining a proactive quality deliver our products, and if needed, take actions to correct
management by ensuring consistent implementation of
excellence culture throughout the Enterprise. or recall products in the market. They provide a common
quality systems across our Johnson & Johnson Family of
foundation for quality systems across the Johnson & Johnson
The focus on quality starts at the top with our Chairman & Companies. Q&C has oversight of quality and regulatory
Family of Companies. The requirements are based on
CEO and our Executive Committee. They, along with the compliance across the Enterprise. Q&C leadership
national and international standards such as current Good
Chief Compliance Officer and the Chief Quality Officer, establishes the enterprise-wide Johnson & Johnson Quality
Manufacturing Practices (cGMPs), International Organization
advocate that all employees must contribute to our Policy and Quality Standards. At our operating companies,
for Standardization (ISO) series, and Johnson & Johnson best
enterprise-wide Quality and Compliance Core Objective the scope of Q&C responsibilities includes quality practices. These Quality Standards are put in place worldwide
established by the Johnson & Johnson Board of Directors. management activities at all stages of a product lifecycle—
to help assure the quality of our products for our customers
from R&D, to manufacturing and commercialization. Our
and to assure the operation of our businesses in compliance
R&D and manufacturing sites have designated Quality heads
with regulations.
to establish, implement and maintain quality systems at our
“ As it states in Our Credo, everything we do sites and ensure quality regulatory compliance. Compliance Monitoring
must be of high quality. It’s our first responsibility
Our quality management approach is based on the following We have established a closed-loop, independent audit
to more than a billion people around the world
proactive measures that help ensure end-to-end quality approach to help ensure our facilities and external
who use and trust Johnson & Johnson products.
excellence: manufacturing sites operate in compliance with our internal
Every employee of our Company proudly accepts
Johnson & Johnson Quality Standards, as well as global health
this responsibility every day. Using our deep
• Adherence to Johnson & Johnson quality standards and authority requirements. Our Quality Audit Program applies
expertise and looking beyond our own Company policies; to all Johnson & Johnson facilities that manufacture, store or
for best practices, we have developed and
• Quality risk management principles; distribute product. It also applies to external manufacturers
implemented benchmark processes in quality,
that provide materials, products and services to our
compliance and safety to improve outcomes for • Compliance monitoring through audits and inspections;
businesses. It is through this Quality Audit Program that we
patients, consumers and customers at some of the • Continuous improvement; monitor, assess and identify opportunities to continuously
most sensitive and important moments of their
• Ongoing and consistent enhancement of talent and improve the effectiveness of our quality systems.
lives. Building on our strong reputation for quality,
capabilities through training and education.
we are prepared to meet ever-rising expectations In addition to our monitoring programs, there is a
and are investing in new technology and solutions In 2018, we optimized our Global Quality Services Management Review process that is built into the quality
to ensure a reliable supply of safe and effective organization to more effectively and efficiently manage system of each operating company, mandating its executive
products when and where they are needed. ” and govern the Johnson & Johnson Quality Standards and management to review the effectiveness of the elements
to provide Quality services across our three segments. The of the quality system, and to require improvements where
Kathy Wengel, Executive Vice President & Chief
Quality Services organization harnesses the expertise within necessary. These Management Reviews are conducted every
Global Supply Chain Officer, Johnson & Johnson
our various companies, which then provide that expertise six months.
as services to all companies across the Enterprise, thus2018 Health for Humanity Report 86
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
from Q&C, Medical Affairs, Medical Safety and Regulatory performance of the end-to-end supply chain. Over years, we
Affairs. The QRBs decide, independently of commercial have identified many best practices that improve the quality
179 considerations, whether actions need to be taken to correct of our products and processes at our sites. The Supplier
or recall a product in the market. Patient and consumer safety Quality Academy enables us to share those learnings with
independent audits completed in 2018 at our supersede any other factor in this decision making. our suppliers and external manufacturers. The platform
internal sites and offers several courses delivered through a variety of training
Quality Risk Management methods—from face-to-face instructor-led trainings to virtual
237 Risk management requirements are part of the Johnson instructor-led conferencing and self-led online modules.
& Johnson Quality Policy. They require that quality risks
independent audits at our external manufacturing Integration of New Acquisitions
throughout the product lifecycles be identified, assessed, and
sites; the majority resulted in no critical findings
mitigated or minimized. In addition to mandatory product Patient and customer safety and product quality are
risk management principles, we developed a proprietary risk paramount considerations in our approach to integrating
mapping tool to identify, assess and mitigate risks across the new acquisitions. We have a well-defined process in place to
entire manufacturing value stream. Based on a comprehensive ensure that when a new company joins our Johnson & Johnson
Continuous Improvement
data-driven methodology, the tool helps identify opportunities Family of Companies, we take prompt measures to align that
We proactively monitor and evaluate our systems, for strengthening quality controls at every phase of a product company’s quality system to our Johnson & Johnson Quality
standards, industry landscape and regulatory environment, lifecycle, thus enabling continuous process improvement and System framework. Our Quality teams participate in the due
incorporating changes where necessary to drive continuous proactive quality control. diligence activities during the acquisition process, and conduct
improvement. Further, when appropriate, sites found to detailed risk assessments of quality systems and processes.
require improvements in their operation develop corrective Training and Education The risks are prioritized, and action plans are developed to
action plans to systematically improve their quality systems Continuous improvement of the skills and capabilities ensure compliance with our internal Quality Policy and Quality
and to prevent a recurrence of any deficiencies. Such of our employees is essential in ensuring personnel have Standards.
ongoing proactivity helps us “self-detect” and “self-correct”
the competence needed to perform their responsibilities
potential issues to ensure compliance with regulatory Proactive Compliance: Improving Quality,
within health authority regulated activities. All applicable
requirements. Results, status and progress are all reported Increasing Speed to Market
employees receive extensive trainings on their responsibilities
to business leaders and the Johnson & Johnson Family of
under the Quality System. Our Quality Training Academy Industry and regulators continue to strive to improve product
Companies’ governing bodies to help them support their
is a centralized platform for our Quality employees to quality and patient experience while increasing speed to
sites’ efforts to achieve compliance in a timely manner.
access training and development opportunities. In addition
Regular updates on this topic are provided by the Johnson &
to mandatory trainings, we offer several learning and
Johnson Chief Quality Officer to the Regulatory Compliance
professional development courses.
Committee of the Board of Directors.
We apply the same training and education philosophy to
Product Recall
our work with suppliers. Through our Supplier Quality
As required by the Quality Standards, each operating Academy, we provide training to suppliers and supplier-
company has a formal Quality Review Board (QRB), which facing Johnson & Johnson employees to build and strengthen
convenes when necessary to evaluate concerns with the strategic competencies that impact the overall quality and
quality of product in the market. The QRBs consist of leaders2018 Health for Humanity Report 87
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
market—getting high-quality products to patients and customers sooner. To this end, Johnson & Johnson is participating in two
pilots with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA):
Software as a Medical Device
Source Quality Proactive Tools Testimonials
Precertification Pilot
Since 2017, Johnson & Johnson, one out of nine selected
“ Johnson & Johnson is synonymous with Quality & Innovation, and through the implementation and use of the
participants, has been engaging with the FDA to develop
tools provided from the Maturity assessment our Quality System has improved exponentially. It provides a systematic
a precertification program for non-embedded software
devices. The purpose of this program is to assess approach to deal and improve People Behavior, Equipment, Quality, Health & Safety. In particular, the Change
whether a company consistently and reliably engages in Management Protocol and Focus on Customer segments had a huge impact on driving the quality of our products, our
high-quality software design and testing (validation) system and employee interaction. We are sure that with continual assessment and innovation we can build and grow
and ongoing maintenance of its software products. our company in balance with our quality management system, thus providing a product of high quality and on time to
Johnson & Johnson’s participation helped to shape a new Johnson & Johnson. ”
Digital Health regulatory framework that will increase
product speed to market at a lower cost. Bronwyn Coghlan, Quality Assurance Manager, VVF Life Sciences South Africa, commenting on Johnson & Johnson’s Maturity Assessment
“ We found great value in getting a better understanding of the processes; but more importantly a deep
understanding of the purpose for the Critical to Quality (CTQ) features. As result measuring equipment was
Case for Quality Voluntary
improved and it definitely helps to have a much more realistic picture of the process output. Initiatives like these
Improvement Program Pilot
are appreciated especially when executed in conjunction with the customer, because the relationship between both
parties gets as robust as the process.”
Johnson & Johnson is participating in the FDA Case Christian Sterling, Quality Assurance Manager, Precision Concepts, Costa Rica
for Quality Voluntary Improvement Program pilot
which utilizes a Capability Maturity Model Integration
(CMMI) model to assess an organization’s quality “ Initiatives like Technical Assessment and Micro Risk Assessment proposed by Johnson & Johnson are evaluated
processes. CMMI model provides guidance for by Interfill as a manifestation of partnership. This way of collaboration promotes open discussion and information
improving processes that meet the business goal of an exchange. This is a new experience for us, and the knowledge from the assessments helped in the microbiological
organization and is used as a framework for appraising production area for hygienic design of equipment, providing new tools to analyze efficiency of current processes and
business processes and quality system maturity of an identify fields of possible improvements. Such workshops help us in a constantly growing production culture and staff
organization. Through this pilot program the FDA involvement. ”
hopes to accelerate new product submissions.
Johnson & Johnson is currently working on three Elena Zagortseva, Quality Manager, Interfill, Russia
launch sites for CMMI assessments.2018 Health for Humanity Report 88
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Our Performance
Product Quality Indicators GRI 416-2 2018 2017 2016
Number of regulatory inspections of Johnson & Johnson sites by worldwide health authorities 619 557 505
Percentage of inspections that resulted in zero observations 78% 71% Not Reported
Number of FDA inspections of Johnson & Johnson sites 24 63 45
Percentage of inspections that resulted in zero observations 75% 83% Not Reported
Average number of observations per FDA inspection 0.6 0.7 Not Reported
Number of independent audits of Johnson & Johnson sites to ensure compliance with Quality Policy & Standard 179 179 179
Number of independent audits of external manufacturing sites to ensure compliance with Quality Policy & Standards 237 Not Reported Not Reported
Number of FDA warning letters issued, total for enterprise 0 0 Not Reported
Number of FDA warning letters issued, by business segment
Pharmaceutical 0 0 Not Reported
Medical Devices 0 0 Not Reported
Consumer 0 0 Not Reported
Global product recall rate* 0.056% 0.133% Not Reported
* Product recall rate is defined as number of lots removed from market per total globally manufactured, based on all field actions that are removals.2018 Health for Humanity Report 89
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Putting Patient Safety First products are used in people, and our Development
Committees to assure that products will fill critical unmet
At Johnson & Johnson, we recognize our fundamental healthcare needs. Day-to-day safety decisions are made Statement on Conducting
responsibility is to provide patients, consumers and healthcare
by multi-disciplinary Safety management teams, and more Clinical Trials
providers with products that are as effective and safe as
complex decisions are managed by segment Medical Safety
possible. We take an evidence- and science-based, ethics- and
Councils, which are chaired by the Chief Medical Officer
values-driven approach to medical safety, putting patient and responsible for each sector. The Johnson & Johnson Medical Download
consumer wellbeing first and foremost in our decision making
Safety Council, chaired by the Johnson & Johnson Chief
and actions, with an emphasis on transparency.
Medical Officer, advises as needed, and sets standards and
policies related to medical safety.
The Office of the Chief Medical Officer (OCMO) is an internal
global team of medical and scientific professionals, including Policy on Our Ethical Code
We also have processes in place that outline the ethical
safety experts, from all three segments of Johnson & Johnson:
treatment of trial participants and how to protect their health for the Conduct of Research
Consumer, Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices. Functionally
and safety, as well as an ethical code for the conduct of R&D.
independent from commercial and development portfolio and Development
interests, Johnson & Johnson’s OCMO focuses on the safety of After commercialization, we continue active surveillance
our products through people-driven processes, initiatives and to monitor for safety signals. We conduct post-marketing Download
policies that are reinforced by a single medical safety standard, studies using real-world data (RWD), continuously review
to which all our products are held. potential adverse event (safety) information, and use
advanced technologies to help us respond rapidly and
Hear from Johnson & Johnson Chief Medical Officer Joanne
appropriately to issues arising, in close partnership with
Waldstreicher, M.D., on what makes the OCMO’s novel
regulatory authorities and stakeholders. “ We’re proud to join the Health Care Alliance
approach to medical safety different:
for Patient Safety to promote key eye health
Read more about our approach to proactive safety
issues and provide patients with the latest
monitoring here.
information they need to safeguard their health.
Scientific Excellence, Through the Alliance, we hope to bring attention
Bioethics and Values-Driven Championing eye health and safety to the untreated and, in some cases, undiagnosed
Decision-Making In 2018, Johnson & Johnson Vision joined the Health Care vision conditions affecting millions of Americans
Alliance for Patient Safety as a Leadership and Charter today while also ensuring that eye health is a
member alongside the American Optometric Association priority in our national health agenda. ”
to advocate for solutions to advance eye health, promote
Peter Menziuso, President, North America,
Proactive Safety Monitoring patient safety, and elevate the doctor-patient relationship.
Johnson & Johnson Vision Care, Inc.
Objective and proactive safety monitoring and evaluation
is built into every stage of our product’s lifecycle—from Expanding clinical access for veterans
development to post-launch. In 2018, we finalized a three-year agreement with the U.S.
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to offer more veterans
At the development stage, we have formal processes
access to our clinical trials and pipeline therapies as well
involving committees of experts to provide governance and
as help VA physicians stay current with the latest
advisement. This includes our First-in-Human Committee
scientific advances.
responsible for reviewing all safety data before our novel2018 Health for Humanity Report 90
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
The VA’s 1,000 outpatient sites and 170 Medical Centers outcomes.
across the United States serve about nine million veterans, a
patient population significantly impacted by diseases such as Supporting enhanced safety surveillance “ Children must have access to innovative
depression and cancer, which are important research areas of Monitoring the safety of its regulated products is a major part medical therapies that have been developed with
focus for Johnson & Johnson. of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) mission to the same degree of urgency and rigor as those for
adults. With connect4children in Europe joining
protect public health. Sentinel is the FDA’s national electronic
in this effort, complementing work underway
The power of real-world data to enhance safety system, which has transformed the way researchers monitor
with I-ACT for Children in the United States, we
the safety of FDA-regulated medical products, including
We believe in the collective power of real-world will be able to accelerate the availability of high-
drugs, vaccines, biologics and medical devices. The FDA is
observational data to complement clinical trial findings, and quality scientific data that can improve the safe
currently exploring further research to enable increasingly
in sharing our insights to improve health outcomes. and effective use of therapies in children. ”
proactive safety surveillance. In line with our commitment
To leverage the power of big data and analytics, we launched to collaborative development of innovative approaches to Joanne Waldstreicher, MD, Chief Medical
an open science collaborative with New York's Columbia analyzing large volumes of safety data, we are supportive of Officer, Johnson & Johnson
University called the Observational Health Data Sciences and this next phase of Sentinel. In December 2018, we shared our
Informatics (OHDSI). OHDSI is a multi-stakeholder and multi- learnings and insights at an FDA-hosted multi-stakeholder
disciplinary open community of researchers working together open discussion to review methodologies and policies for
to generate reliable evidence from observational data to enhancing proactive safety signal detection. and to accelerate policies driven by the needs of our
promote better health decisions and better care. All findings, youngest patients.
methodologies, analysis code and related software tools are Enhancing the safety of pediatric medicine for children
shared publicly and published with free access to advance In 2018, we co-led the development of connect4children
Developing safe and effective medicines, devices and
public health. (c4c), a six-year project to create a pan-European clinical
consumer products that enable future generations to reach
trial network by 2024 to facilitate the conduct of pediatric
their full potential requires child-centered innovation. The
The OHDSI community comprises 60+ databases clinical trials in the European Union. In collaboration with the
Child Health Innovation Leadership Department (CHILD) is
representing more than 1.2 billion patients in 20+ countries. Critical Path Institute (C-Path), we also co-led the creation of
Johnson & Johnson’s dedicated team working to understand
the Institute for Advanced Clinical Trials for Children (I-ACT
the safety and effectiveness of our medicines in children,
Leveraging big data to create a more transparent model for Children), an independent nonprofit organization that
for real-world data works collaboratively with parents, patients, investigators,
foundations, regulators, other government agencies,
Johnson & Johnson is also breaking new ground in the
biopharmaceutical sponsors and children’s networks to
analysis of large RWD sets. In 2018, we analyzed data of
more than 700,000 adults with type 2 diabetes across four “ Giving cancer patients within the VA greater catalyze improvements in the quality and timely completion
large databases to evaluate comparative effects of seven access to transformational clinical trials allows of global pediatric studies.
diabetes medications or classes of medications on the risk of them to stay in the healthcare system most
Medical safety driven by the needs of the people
amputation and hospitalization for heart failure. The study, familiar to them and with the physicians who
who use our products
OBSERVE-4D, is the largest and most comprehensive real- know them best. ”
world observational study to date, and established a new Every action and decision we undertake is done through the
standard for quickly and appropriately translating large-scale Craig Tendler, Vice President, Oncology Clinical lens of the patients and consumers who use our products
Development and Global Medical Affairs,
RWD into evidence to complement evidence from clinical every day. From patient-focused drug development, to using
Janssen Research & Development, LLC
trials in an open and transparent manner. real-world evidence (RWE) most effectively to inform more
personalized, safer healthcare decisions, to integrating the
Read more about how we are using RWD to improve health patient voice in safety management, we work to engage2018 Health for Humanity Report 91
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, to promote and www.factsabouttalc.com includes independent studies from
enhance training that emphasizes both the technical aspects leading universities, research from medical journals and third-
“ We believe real-world data will become an of using a new surgical device and nontechnical aspects party opinions confirming that our talc is safe.
important part of ongoing safety in healthcare. like communication, teamwork and decision making. This
For this to happen, each piece of evidence partnership created a device briefing tool (DBT) with the goal Improved transparency for baby products
must be transparently understood and evaluated of increasing clinician confidence in using a new device and
in conjunction with all the other evidence that improving teamwork and communications in the operating We’ve always been proud of the safety and gentleness of our
is available. ” room. After a successful 2018 pilot program in Thailand, baby products, but we also heard parents’ requests for fewer
ingredients. In response to changing parent preferences, in
Johnson & Johnson signed a 2.5-year agreement with
Jesse Berlin, ScD, Vice President and Global 2018, we redesigned and began phased rollout globally of
Ariadne Labs to scale up and disseminate the WHO Surgical
Head, Epidemiology, Office of the Chief Medical our JOHNSON’S Baby washes, lotions and haircare products,
Safety Checklist and the DBT at key hospitals in Singapore,
Officer, Johnson & Johnson and reduced the number of ingredients in our portfolio by
with the ultimate aim of global deployment.
more than 50%, disclosing 100% of the ingredients in these
Consumer Products Ingredient Safety products—including those found in fragrances.
patients and consumers throughout the entire lifecycle of our We always use high-quality ingredients. We manufacture our While JOHNSON’S Baby products have been free from
products. products using pharmaceutical standards, which are higher parabens, phthalates, 1,4-dioxane and formaldehyde-
than those mandated for personal care products or food. releasing preservatives since 2015, in this recent relaunch
We also actively work with regulators to advance the use Additionally, we constantly look for purer versions of our we removed dyes and sulfates from the washes, shampoos,
of patient-focused approaches to assess the benefit-risk ingredients and regularly incorporate them into our products. lotions and creams, making them even gentler. Today, 96% of
balance of treatments. In 2018, we led the assessment We continuously evaluate ingredients used in our products the ingredients in our washes, lotions and haircare products
and application of a novel methodology that captures in response to consumer preferences, advances in science are naturally derived.33
quantitatively how patients evaluate benefit-risk tradeoffs, and our own scientific research. Our Consumer business
and were one of the first companies to successfully integrate segment leads consumer products ingredient safety through
patient preference assessments within clinical trials. our Johnson & Johnson Global Ingredient Steering Committee,
ensuring that ingredients are appropriately considered, using
internal process assessments and external feedback. For more “ JOHNSON'S fragrances are designed
Collaborating to advance innovation in medical devices
information, see our Safety & Care Commitment website. specifically for delicate and sensitive skin, so
Building on our work with the National Evaluation System we design products to avoid harsh ingredients
for Health Technologies Coordinating Center (NESTcc), and well-known fragrance allergens. Our
Talc safety
Johnson & Johnson is participating in five first-round test baby fragrances have been reviewed by both
cases to lead the industry in gauging the feasibility of At the end of 2018, we published a statement on our website independent groups and safety experts—and
leveraging the NESTcc network to advance the use of RWE and in the press to reassure our consumers that JOHNSON’S for the first time are all listed on the JOHNSON’S
for medical device evaluation and regulatory decision making Baby Powder is safe, as a response to concerns relating website. ”
for better patient outcomes and care. to the presence of asbestos allegedly found in talc some
years ago. Our statement confirms that the talc in our baby Homer Swei, Director of Product Stewardship,
powder is pure, safe, pharmaceutical-grade talc and that Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc.
Proactively enhancing medical devices safety in
we have always acted with transparency with the FDA and
operating rooms
other regulators, giving full access to our testing results. We
In 2018, we collaborated with Ariadne Labs, a joint center confirmed that there is overwhelming scientific evidence that
between Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston and the our talc is safe and beneficial to use. Our website,2018 Health for Humanity Report 92
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Anti-Counterfeiting & Brand Protection Proactive & Preventive Approach
J&J-8 (GRI 103) GBP’s capabilities for responding to various forms of illicit trade— Select Collaborations to
including counterfeiting, unauthorized diversion and product Combat Counterfeiting
Our patients, consumers and customers must have
tampering—have matured and improved substantially over recent
unequivocal confidence in the quality, safety and authenticity of
years. While we still invest significantly in our response to any
Johnson & Johnson products. The global growth of illicit trade in reported suspect or confirmed illicit trade incidents, our strategic • IACC (International
health and personal care products can potentially jeopardize that focus has shifted toward developing and deploying more proactive Anti-Counterfeiting Coalition),
confidence, and represents a potential threat to public health. Illicit Board of Directors
and preventive measures. Our ongoing and increasing investments
trade has increased dramatically in recent years for many reasons,
in digital authentication technology, targeted market monitoring
including globalization, e-commerce growth, technological • A-CAPP MSU (Center for
(online and offline), and advanced data and analytics capabilities
Anti-Counterfeiting and Product
advancements, and the increasing involvement of transnational
are key enablers of this shift in our strategy. Protection at Michigan State
organized crime groups. This growing worldwide trade in
University), Board of Directors
counterfeit and illicit products puts people’s health at risk and can These efforts include leveraging innovative digital technologies
undermine their trust in genuine brands and products. to enhance supply chain integrity, safeguard our markets • ICC/BASCAP/AP (International
(through early detection of the presence of illicit trade), and more Chamber of Commerce/Business
At Johnson & Johnson we have a strong enterprise-wide anti- effectively expose the sources, networks and patterns of illicit Action to Stop Counterfeiting and
counterfeiting and brand protection strategy to protect our trade throughout our global markets and channels. In 2018, we Piracy), Co-Chair Position in China
customers and patients—and our brand reputation—from the
launched an illicit trade analytics platform, which has significantly
impact of illicit trade. Our Global Brand Protection (GBP) team • ICC/BASCAP/MEA, Chairman of
increased our ability to generate actionable intelligence and
coordinates and leads these efforts across the Enterprise. GBP’s Nigeria Working Group
insights from numerous disparate data sources, both internal and
extensive capabilities reflect our response to various forms of illicit
external. Because of the increasing risk of counterfeit products • Rx360 – An International
trade, including counterfeiting, diversion and tampering.
being distributed online, internet monitoring has also become an Pharmaceutical Supply Chain
important strategic focus for GBP. Consortium, Steering Committee
The fight against illicit trade requires close collaboration and
Lead
coordination across multiple functions and disciplines within
In addition to developing these innovative technologies, we also
our Company, as well as partnerships with numerous external deploy proven brand protection tools and programs for our at- • PSI/PEI (Pharmaceutical Security
stakeholders. Internally, GBP works closely with Johnson & Institute), Working Group Member
risk products across the three business segments. These include
Johnson Global Security to maintain supply chain security and
multi-layered product security features on packaging, ranging
undertake investigations and enforcement actions; with Quality • ASOP (Alliance for Safe Online
from overt/low-security to covert/high-security technologies, and
Pharmacies), Member
& Compliance to capture and respond to suspect incident
associated market monitoring programs. Product security features
reports; and with the Law Department to handle issues related to
work in concert with market monitoring and enable authentication • QBPC (Quality Brands Protection
trademarks and intellectual property. The organization also works
of products at key points of the end-to-end supply chain, and Committee) China, Member
with other functional and commercial business partners to advise
when a suspect counterfeit product has been identified. Ongoing
on illicit trade risks, and to embed brand protection best practices • EAASM (European Alliance for
deployment of item-level product serialization and "track and trace"
and processes in ongoing operations. Externally, GBP collaborates Access to Safe Medicines), Member
technologies by Johnson & Johnson’s Supply Chain Visibility group
with government, law enforcement agencies, suppliers, academic
also enhances our ability to detect illicit product that has entered
• Gulf Brand Protection Group, Board
institutions, industry partners and other stakeholders to extend and
our supply chain. of Directors
enhance the team’s resources, expertise and ability to effectively
combat illicit trade.2018 Health for Humanity Report 93
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Prior to deploying product security features and brand In 2018, we trained 803 people (stakeholders) in brand
protection programs, GBP conducts extensive risk protection best practices. Training is typically delivered
assessments and analysis using a standardized methodology through our Enterprise e-learning platform, but may also be
to determine the optimal level of security based on known conducted in person if we are addressing a key functional
risk factors and a product’s safety profile. These risk stakeholder group directly.
assessment protocols have also been integrated with our new
product development process to ensure that all new products Our brand protection training also extends to our suppliers,
are protected prior to launch. distributors and customers to educate them about the
risks of illicit trade, how to report any suspect incidents or
Awareness & Education issues, and what actions they can take to guard against the
introduction of illicit product into the legitimate supply chain.
Counterfeiting is a global problem that requires coordinated
This training is typically incorporated into other important
solutions, multi-stakeholder collaboration, and continuous
training programs, such as the Good Warehousing and
awareness raising and education. We are committed to
Distribution Practices, and made available to our network
collaborating with health authorities, peer manufacturers,
of suppliers through Johnson & Johnson’s Supplier Quality
academic institutions, distributors, retailers, and other key
Academy, an e-learning platform accessible to our business
players in the health and personal care industry to develop
partners.
comprehensive supply chain best practices, raise awareness
about risks of counterfeiting, and together mount a strong
defense and response to illicit traders. In 2018, we engaged
in 10 external trade groups, alliances, organizations and
agencies—either in leadership positions or as a member of
industry working groups.
Awareness and education (A&E) among our employees and
key internal stakeholders are also an important aspect of
our overall brand protection strategy. The foundation of our
A&E program is a set of 10 Safe and Secure Supply Chain
Best Practices that provide guidance to employees on how to
employ brand protection controls and safeguards in areas of
the supply chain where issues may typically arise. Examples
of best practices instruction include Distributor Compliance,
Product Returns and Destruction, Transportation
Security, and Facility Security. Each June, on World
Anti-Counterfeiting Day, we also remind and inform our
employees worldwide about how they can help us strengthen
our defenses and resilience against this growing threat to the
health and safety of our patients and consumers.2018 Health for Humanity Report 94
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Ethics & Transparency
At Johnson & Johnson we believe in conducting our business
with integrity and earning the trust of the people we serve.
For us, this means complying with applicable legal, regulatory
and industry code requirements, and upholding the highest
standards in every aspect of our business and in every market
where we operate. Running a responsible business is an
essential driver of value creation, and our stakeholders
expect no less of a leading global corporation such as
Johnson & Johnson. It starts with a culture of ethical
leadership and integrity delivered by a diverse, skilled
workforce committed to serving the patients, customers,
consumers and all others who count on us to provide high-
quality, safe and reliable products, operate with integrity and
engage in responsible business practices and outcomes.2018 Health for Humanity Report 95
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Commitment to Ethics & Compliance The Johnson & Johnson Credo Hotline offers a secure channel for
GRI 102-17, 102-25, 205-1, 205-2, 406-1, 412-2, 407 (103), 419 (103) anonymous reporting of suspected violations of our policies. 94.32%
Our responsibilities to patients, physicians, employees, communities Compliance Programs
of assigned employees and
and shareholders are set in stone in Our Credo. This is the Our best-in-class Global Compliance Programs serve as a roadmap
foundation of our values that has guided our business for 75 years. for leadership, accountability and ethical business conduct with 86.58%
a focus on patients, physicians, employees, communities and
At Johnson & Johnson, we are committed to maintaining the
shareholders, as defined in Our Credo.
of assigned contingent workers
highest level of integrity and ethical culture. We also advocate
for good corporate principles in the areas of human rights, labor, Our global compliance program is based on the following completed the CBC training
environment, anti-bribery, and anti-corruption in industry codes fundamental elements:
and elsewhere.
• Well-defined and clearly communicated standards of
Our comprehensive policies, procedures and compliance training compliance; 86,000+
help our employees and contingent workers navigate the applicable
• Robust compliance governance framework;
laws, regulations and industry codes, as well as our own ethical employees completed the HCC training
standards. • Continuous compliance monitoring through internal
assessments and audits;
The Johnson & Johnson Law, Health Care Compliance, Privacy, • Effective and timely response to detected deviations from
Global Finance and Corporate Internal Audit departments provide compliance standards, including developing and following
additional guidance and assurance on conformity with the policies, through on corrective action plans, with disciplinary actions
laws and regulations that impact our work. when appropriate;
• Ensuring open lines of communication;
The Code of Business Conduct (CBC) and Health Care Compliance
• Ongoing training and education; and
(HCC) policies specifically set forth our Company’s values, which
apply to all employees worldwide. They list comprehensive ethical • Proactive risk management.
standards for decisions and actions in every market where we
operate. The CBC and HCC policies and updates are regularly
communicated to our people to re-enforce our integrity standards.
We strive to partner with those who demonstrate high ethical Code of Business Conduct
standards in their business practices.
All Johnson & Johnson employees and certain categories of Download
contingent workers are assigned and required to complete the
CBC training every two years. All required Johnson & Johnson
employees, including those who interact with healthcare
professionals or government officials, are annually assigned HCC
training, which incorporates topics such as anti-bribery/anti-
corruption. The CBC and HCC training courses are available in 27
and 23 languages respectively.2018 Health for Humanity Report 96
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Our compliance guidelines and policies meet or exceed legal With the complexity of the healthcare environment Our policies require that all employees with relevant job
and regulatory requirements in every jurisdiction where we continuing to evolve, our global compliance program is functions complete anti-bribery and anti-corruption training.
operate. This includes industry standards and local codes of focused on strengthening and optimizing core programs and The training covers the core aspects of our Health Care
conduct, such as Advancing Medical Technology Association processes; elevating our integrated approach to data, metrics Business Integrity Guide, including charitable contributions,
(AdvaMed), Asia Pacific Medical Technology Association and analytics; and leveraging the power of technology for all donations, gifts, third-party intermediary (e.g., distributors)
(APACMED), Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers components of our global compliance program. Each year and cross-border interactions. Further, we expect our
of America (PhRMA) and the European Federation of we conduct risk assessments of our operations to identify suppliers to embrace high standards of ethical behavior that
Pharmaceutical Industry Associations (EFPIA). In addition, areas where additional attention or modification to our are consistent with our own. Our requirements for suppliers
Johnson & Johnson actively participates in the work of programs may be required. Ongoing improvements are in are outlined in Johnson & Johnson Responsibility
industry associations, and helps develop industry codes for place to keep our compliance programs efficient, effective Standards for Suppliers.
ethical and compliant marketing and selling of products. and current with changes in the business environment, our
diverse stakeholders’ expectations, and the demands of laws,
Our Chief Compliance Officer has overall responsibility for regulations and industry standards.
the management of our healthcare compliance program,
Ethical Sales & Marketing
and reports directly to our Executive Vice President, General Anti-Bribery/Anti-Corruption
Practices Statement
Counsel, who is a member of the Executive Committee. The
Johnson & Johnson takes a strong stance against bribery
Chief Compliance Officer also has a direct reporting line to
consistent with the anti-bribery laws that exist in many Download
the Regulatory Compliance Committee of the Company’s
countries around the world. We strictly prohibit any illegal
Board of Directors.
offers that may inappropriately influence a customer. Our
products are purchased and sold based on quality and
Each substantial operating company has a designated
price. In our policies, we comprehensively cover our anti-
healthcare compliance officer responsible for compliance
corruption and anti-bribery position, which follows the U.S.
programs. In addition, the Company’s Law Department Credo Hotline
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act, and
provides direct guidance and training on the Company’s
other applicable local anti-bribery and corruption laws and
policies.
regulations.
The Credo Hotline is managed by a third party
Potential violations arising under our policies or laws and and available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week,
Our CBC expressly prohibits bribes, kickbacks, and any other
regulations are reported internally to senior management in 23 languages. Concerns can be filed both
illegal payments, whether provided directly or through a third
and, as appropriate, to the Johnson & Johnson Executive electronically on www.credohotline.com or by
party, e.g., a distributor, customs broker or other agents.
Committee, the Board of Directors, relevant Committees of calling a toll-free number (international dialing
the Board, and/or the internal and external auditors. When instructions are on the same website).
Our internal controls at all levels of the organization ensure
public disclosure criteria are met, anticompetitive behavior,
compliance with anti-bribery/anti-corruption laws. We
antitrust claims, product liability claims, and lawsuits that
audit and refine these internal controls on an ongoing
cover customer health and safety, labeling or marketing, as
basis. Continuous monitoring includes full documentation
well as corrective actions and resulting fines and penalties
of existing accounting and internal control systems and
are outlined in our 10-Q and 10-K filings. See Note 21 on page
evaluation procedures.
81 of our 2018 Annual Report.2018 Health for Humanity Report 97
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
The HCC function conducts compliance monitoring and employees, contingent workers, customers, third-party agencies
testing of operations at our operating companies on a and other partners to report potential violations. They may
Our Performance
regular basis. The scope and frequency of such monitoring relate to the CBC, other Company policies or the applicable
is determined based on our risk assessments and local laws and regulations in the countries of our operations.
Inquiries and Complaints Brought through the
conditions.
Additionally, anyone can report allegations through other Credo Hotline by Category
The HCC function works closely with the Johnson & Johnson methods (by phone or e-mail, etc.) within their local business
Corporate Internal Audit and Law Department to investigate unit or to Corporate Internal Audit, HCC, Law, Security or the 2018 2017
potential incidents of non-compliance relating to anti-bribery/ Human Resources organizations. Our Escalation Procedure
anti-corruption. Over 260 operating companies are audited Policy requires all employees to escalate any violations of our Human Resources-related 58% 59%
by Corporate Internal Audit for compliance with our HCC policies or applicable laws. Our management teams around
General information questions 13% 12%
programs (including anti-bribery/anti-corruption) on a three- the globe are reminded annually of the requirements of this
year cycle for our higher-risk companies, or a five-plus-year policy. We act swiftly to review any reported violations of our
Financial-related 11% 10%
cycle for our lower-risk companies. More frequent testing and CBC, compliance policies, laws or regulations.
monitoring of select areas of our businesses are conducted Other (privacy, general
by the HCC function. Johnson & Johnson uses both internal Addressing Non-Compliance and Misconduct security, EH&S, etc.) 10% 11%
and external criteria, including the Transparency International All Credo Hotline reports are routed by our external
Corruption Perceptions Index, as well as market- and business- vendor to Corporate Internal Audit (or Human Resources, if Healthcare compliance-related 6% 6%
specific risk factors, to determine the risk profile of our appropriate). Our internal Triage Committee is comprised
operating companies and businesses. The scope of audits of HCC, Corporate Internal Audit and the Law Department. Quality assurance-related 2% 2%
covers a range of commercial activities associated with bribery It reviews the allegations from both the Credo Hotline and
and corruption risk, including sales and distribution, engaging other channels to determine the appropriate actions. Most
healthcare providers and other third parties for services, gifts issues are investigated by or under the direct supervision of
or items of value, tendering, and cross-border interactions. Law, HCC, Privacy or Corporate Internal Audit. The Human Compliance-Related Investigations
Resources department manages any human resources-
In addition to the healthcare compliance-related audits, 2018 2017
related issues.
Corporate Internal Audit conducts financial audits that serve
as both a preventive and detective supplemental element The specific details of allegations of violation of our policies Compliance allegations
investigated through Triage 707 693
of our compliance program. Information on these audits is or legal requirements are subject to confidentiality, legal,
Committee
included in regular updates to the Regulatory Compliance privacy or other restrictions and, therefore, are not publicly
Committee of the Board of Directors. Where audits or disclosed. However, general information around the types
Compliance allegations, by category
monitoring activities identify questionable activities, these of issues and the annual volume coming into our hotline are
issues are escalated to an internal Triage Committee, reflected in the chart to the right. If this information meets Healthcare Compliance 46% 54%
which determines appropriate action to take, including the criteria for required public disclosure, it is reported
commencement of for-cause investigations. externally in our public filings. Financial 40% 34%
Grievance Mechanisms
Other (legal, quality, anti-trust,
14% 12%
Our Credo Hotline is an integral component of the strong product registration, privacy, etc.)
compliance culture at Johnson & Johnson. It is an anonymous
whistle-blowing mechanism that provides a channel for all2018 Health for Humanity Report 98
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Upholding Transparency • Clinical Data Transparency: We support the overall principles
of greater clinical trial data transparency, including registration
GRI 415 (103), 415-1, 205 (103), 206 (103) Achieving Trendsetter Status
and disclosure of clinical trial results in external registries;
publication of results in peer-reviewed journals; and sharing
At Johnson & Johnson, we value transparency as the basis of trust-
of clinical study reports and participant-level data from
building with all those engaged in any way with our business. We
clinical trials. Clinical trials conducted around the world by Johnson & Johnson advanced to
strive to hold ourselves accountable by providing information about
our pharmaceutical, medical devices and consumer product “Trendsetter” status in 2018 on the Center
how we operate across our operating companies and markets. companies are listed on the U.S. National Institutes of Health’s for Political Accountability’s CPA-Zicklin
Further, we also recognize and comply with the multiple reporting website, www.clinicaltrials.gov, the European Clinical Trial Index, which the organization deems as
requirements that regulatory bodies governing our three business Register, and country-specific and regional registries across the those companies most transparent. The
segments define. globe. Learn more in Bioethics section. CPA-Zicklin Index benchmarks the political
disclosure and accountability policies and
Our Mandatory and Voluntary Disclosures • Political Engagement: As a global healthcare company, practices for election-related spending of
we work with many stakeholders in the markets where we leading U.S. public companies.
• Financial Disclosures: We report on our financial results and
operate, and we take a stance on and support certain public
other material disclosures as required for a U.S. public company
policies in the United States and in different parts of the world
by the Securities Exchange Commission and the New York Stock
as they relate to our core business of advancing health. Our
Exchange. Our filings are available on our corporate site.
stakeholders express interest in knowing what our policy
positions are and the ways we contribute to advancing those
• Citizenship and Sustainability Disclosures: We publish
policies. We disclose this information annually, including our
an annual Health for Humanity Report in line with leading
philosophy on political contributions, our strategic priorities
global standards (Global Reporting Initiative, UN Global
and our contributions data. Please visit Political Engagement
Compact) covering a broad range of non-financial updates and
for more information.
performance.
Pricing Transparency in the United States
• Environmental Disclosures: In addition to our Health for
Humanity Report, we disclose to CDP Climate Change, Water We know that in today’s complex healthcare system patients and
and Forest frameworks. families are increasingly concerned about their ability to access and
afford medical innovation. These concerns have rightfully led to
• Payments to Healthcare Providers: In the United States, we
calls for greater transparency into the world of healthcare, including
disclose financial information under the Physician Payments
prescription medicines.
Sunshine Act. We also voluntarily publish aggregated data
for our companies covered by Open Payments. In Europe,
That is why the Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of
we comply with the European Federation of Pharmaceutical
Industries and Associations healthcare payments disclosure Johnson & Johnson publishes its annual Janssen U.S. Transparency
framework with disclosures on the Janssen website. Report, which demonstrates our commitment to responsible
Other countries or regions have similar legal or industry business practices that put patients first—including how we invest
code disclosure requirements that we have worked to help our resources, price our medicines, and help people who need
establish—and that we comply with—to help foster transparent Janssen medicines get access to them. In March 2019, Janssen
business practices. For further information on our approach, published the 2018 Janssen U.S. Transparency Report. This year we
see our statement on Funding for Professional Education and
share our ideas and perspectives on policy proposals, with the goal
to Health Care Professionals.
of building on what is working in our healthcare system while fixing
what is not.2018 Health for Humanity Report 99
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
New online resources for A first in transparency for
“ Greater transparency is a critical step toward
improved transparency cancer treatment
giving patients the clarity they need about their
healthcare options and out-of-pocket costs. In this
year’s report, we disclose that the average net price
Many people turn to the Internet for In 2018, The U.S. Food and Drug
of our medicines in the U.S declined 6.8% in 2018,
information when navigating the process Administration (FDA) approved
falling for the second year in a row. At the same of seeking pre-approval access (PAA) to ERLEADA (apalutamide) for the
time, we maintained our significant investment investigational medicines. It is essential treatment of patients with prostate
in discovering and developing transformational they find an easy-to-understand, trusted cancer that has not spread (non-
medicines for patients facing some of the world’s and reliable source of PAA information. metastatic) but continues to grow
most challenging diseases: our $8.4 billion global With this in mind, our Patient Support despite treatment with hormone
investment in R&D was 86% more than what we team has unveiled new materials as well therapy. This is the first FDA-approved
spent to market and sell our medicines. ” as enhancements to the Compassionate treatment for this type of prostate
Use & Pre-Approval Access section of cancer. The safety and efficacy of
Scott White, Company Group Chairman, Janssen.com. The site now includes an ERLEADA was based on a randomized
North America Pharmaceuticals, Janssen array of user-friendly tools and resources, clinical trial of 1,207 patients.
Pharmaceuticals Companies of Johnson & Johnson the result of extensive patient-focused
collaboration. To aid patients, consumers, ERLEADA is the first participant in
healthcare practitioners and other external the FDA’s Clinical Data Summary Pilot
stakeholders, there is a new resource Program, announced in early 2018,
tab, which includes a brief video on created to provide stakeholders with
We also detail our plan to include list price and typical patient out- compassionate use, a glossary of PAA more usable information on the clinical
of-pocket costs in our U.S. pharmaceutical advertising. We issue terms, an infographic that depicts the evidence supporting drug product
this Report because we believe open dialogue and partnership are process of making a single patient request approvals and more transparency into
essential to addressing the challenges in our healthcare system. (SPR), and additional tools. the FDA’s decision-making process.
Information from the clinical summary
Fundamentally, we believe transparency is a positive step toward a
report and the ERLEADA submission is
more sustainable, results-based health system that delivers greater
now posted to the FDA’s new Clinical
access to care at a more manageable cost.
Data Summary Pilot Program website.
Tax Transparency
In 1943, we adopted Our Credo, which guides how the
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies conduct business around
the world. The third paragraph of Our Credo focuses on our
community responsibilities as corporate citizens. We take these
responsibilities very seriously, including paying our fair share of
taxes, among them corporate income taxes, employment tax, social
contributions, import and customs duties, and indirect taxes. We
value and strive for cooperative and transparent relationships with
taxing authorities, and we support tax policies that encourage
innovation and growth.
Our commitment to these responsibilities is embodied in our
Tax Policy Statement.2018 Health for Humanity Report 100
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Bioethics testing. Where this research involves animals, we employ every
method available to safeguard their welfare. Compassionate
To address the complex ethical questions arising in the field of
biological research, science and medicine, our global Johnson & This research is overseen by our Animal Care Council and functional Use & Pre-Approval
Johnson Bioethics Committee (JJBC), led by our Chief Medical councils. Our Policy on the Humane Care and Use of Animals directs Access Statement
Officer, serves as an advisory body to our worldwide teams on ethical our operating companies on the ethical and humane treatment of
issues. Composed of a diverse group of employees from across the animals and promotes the use of non-animal alternatives whenever
Download
business, JJBC assists in ethics-based decision making in line with feasible. We have had a Refinement, Reduction and Replacement
the fundamental principles of bioethics, including beneficence, (3Rs) program in place for over 12 years that annually recognizes
non-maleficence, autonomy and justice, and in accordance with our and promotes significant advances and innovative approaches to
Ethical Code for the Conduct of Research and Development. We improve the wellbeing of animals in our studies and the development
also engage with industry and continue to make a strong contribution of alternative methods. We also partner with the Institute for In Vitro
More
to the dialogue on current bioethical issues, in particular, clinical trial Sciences and the Center for Alternatives for Animal Testing to develop
data transparency and access to investigational medicines. viable non-animal research alternatives. Resources
Access to Investigational Medicines In addition, our Policy requires that research protocols involving
Pre-approval access (PAA) is an overarching term for access to an the use of animals are reviewed for approval by the Animal Care Webpage of the Office of
investigational medicine outside of a clinical trial and prior to health and Use Committees or Ethical Committees and are compliant with the Chief Medical Officer
authority approval. The main pathway for gaining access to Janssen’s appropriate local and regional governmental agencies. It also requires
investigational medicines is for a patient to enroll in a clinical trial. all personnel to be appropriately trained, and all Johnson & Johnson
For patients with serious or life-threatening illnesses who cannot animal facilities to be accredited by the Association for Assessment
enroll in clinical trials, PAA programs can be considered. and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International (AAALAC).
Our commitment to transparent and ethically based decision making Five Years of Responsible Clinical Trial Data Sharing
is illustrated through efforts such as our robust and patient-centered Sharing clinical trial data advances the science that is the foundation “ By responsibly sharing our data,
development of strategies to make investigational medicines of medicine and public health by enabling researchers and scientists we aim to pave the way for better
available to those in need, as well as our collaboration with the New to test new hypotheses and potentially find new treatments and healthcare data-sharing practices
York University School of Medicine to create the Compassionate Use cures. Since 2014, Johnson & Johnson has partnered with the Yale to improve health outcomes for the
Advisory Committee (CompAC). CompAC facilitates the review of University School of Medicine and the Yale Open Data Access greatest number of people.”
compassionate use requests by an independent, external body of (YODA) Project. The YODA Project serves as an independent, third-
internationally recognized medical experts, bioethicists and patient party reviewer of external requests for access to data from clinical Joanne Waldstreicher, MD, Chief
representatives. After a successful pilot that began in 2015, CompAC trials conducted by Johnson & Johnson for our pharmaceuticals, Medical Officer,
was expanded to include additional investigational medicines in medical devices and consumer products—enabling a fair and Johnson & Johnson
development at Janssen. Further, Johnson & Johnson’s commitment unbiased approach for assessing external research proposals.
extends industrywide to support patients, providers and caregivers
in their efforts to understand potential options available to them. Five-year data on the YODA Project were published in Nature’s open
The CompAC process has been recognized as a leading practice by access journal, Scientific Data, in 2018. The research findings both
experts in bioethics. defined best practices for sharing clinical trial data and outlined
outstanding challenges to further refine how data are shared.
Our Commitment to Animal Welfare
Some of our R&D processes that deliver immeasurable benefit to
human health are made possible through rigorous research and2018 Health for Humanity Report 101
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Respect for Human Rights
GRI 102-41, GRI 402 (103), 402-1, GRI 406 (103)
Johnson & Johnson’s commitment to respecting human rights As part of our effort toward continuous improvement, in a timely and practical manner in advance of actions being
in our own operations and our supply base is evident in our throughout 2018 we evaluated different approaches to assess taken. Many of our collective bargaining agreements contain
policies and statements, which are available on our website: our actual and potential human rights impacts across our value negotiated provisions covering severance or separation pay
chain. In 2019, we will be engaging with Shift, the leading and benefits. Where there is no legal minimum notice period,
• Code of Business Conduct center of expertise on the UN Guiding Principles on Business Johnson & Johnson operating companies typically provide 30
and Human Rights, to help us in our process to identify salient days of notice.
• Conducting Clinical Trials Statement
human rights issues—a key step in our holistic approach to
• Statement on Human Rights ongoing human rights due diligence. Our approach to talent management puts a strong focus on
diversity and inclusion principles. We promote diversity and
• Global Labor & Employment Guidelines As outlined below, we also provide grievance mechanisms equal opportunity in recruiting, development and promotion
that can be accessed if stakeholders feel that their human as well as all other aspects of employee careers.
• Harassment- and Bullying-Free Workplace Policy rights have been adversely impacted.
• Policy on Employment of Young Persons Our Own Operations 21%
• Responsibility Standards for Suppliers Our Global Labor & Employment Guidelines articulate our
of employees covered by collective
expectations for labor and employment practices at our sites,
bargaining agreements
• Human Trafficking Policy including preventing forced labor and child labor, and non-
discrimination, among other matters. In 2018, we also evaluated
• California Transparency in Supply Chains Act & UK
various approaches to a systematic assessment of compliance
Modern Slavery Act Statement
with the Global Labor & Employment Guidelines in our 1,432 or 85.8%
• Human Right to Water operations, and expect to deploy a plan starting in late 2019.
of all Global Procurement employees and 233
We updated our Statement on Human Rights in 2018 Johnson & Johnson provides the freedom to establish a
employees in other functions completed human
following a rigorous internal cross-functional review process. formal employee organization or representation structure rights training
We also reviewed and updated our governance structure across the Enterprise, including in our operating companies;
for managing human rights across our value chain. The company sites can establish an employee representation
Enterprise Governance Council (EGC), a global, cross- structure or framework except where prohibited by law.
functional team of senior leaders representing functional
Minimum notice periods, the management of reorganizations
groups and business segments, oversees this work. Quarterly
and layoffs, and the policies associated with such actions
EGC meetings provide a forum for updates on human rights
vary depending on the location, nature, size and scale of the
topics, with an established process for elevating issues to
action and applicable law. Local operating leaders endeavor
the Johnson & Johnson Executive Committee, our Board of
to communicate significant plans of operational changes to
Directors and Board Committees if warranted.
employees and their representatives, where they are present,2018 Health for Humanity Report 102
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Supply Base business relationships, we will use our influence to work with
our suppliers or business partners to prevent, mitigate and
The Johnson & Johnson Responsibility Standards for
address adverse impacts on human rights. The
Suppliers outline our expectations of supplier business
Johnson & Johnson Credo Hotline—a grievance mechanism
conduct. The Standards align closely with relevant provisions
available to all employees, suppliers and other business
of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Human Rights
partners—offers a secure mechanism for anonymous
and the Consumer Goods Forum Forced Labor Resolution
reporting of suspected concerns or potential violations
and Priority Industry Principles. In 2018, we updated and
of our policies or the law. We communicate the hotline
launched our online training on Human Rights. The training
access broadly, and the visibility of this access and hotline
is mandatory for all Global Procurement employees, and is
functionality are in scope for enterprise-wide audit
available to other relevant functions.
procedures. Concerns raised through the hotline are reported
at an Enterprise level. More information on the Credo Hotline
We continue to reinforce our management approach to
is available in our Commitment to Ethics & Compliance
human rights issues in the supply base. Our cross-functional
section.
Human Rights Working Group—comprised of Global
Procurement, Law Department, Environmental Health,
In addition to the Credo Hotline, our employees can
Safety & Sustainability, and Corporate Governance functional
anonymously report potential violations to the Human
groups—meets regularly, and rolled out the social audit
Resources function within each operating company locally
program in 2018. For more information, see the Supplier
as follows:
Assessments & Audits section.
• In all countries in our Asia Pacific region, we have a
Acquisitions
grievance resolution policy that explains how employees
We firmly believe that identifying and understanding can raise complaints, and details manager responsibilities
environmental, safety and employee issues, including to take action.
potential human rights concerns, are critical components of
• In the Americas and the Asia Pacific region, Employee
our acquisition and other business development activities.
Relations staff independently investigates non-compliance
We conduct thorough due diligence investigations prior to
in employee relations matters, and verified non-compliant
acquiring businesses, and apply a commensurately higher situations are addressed by the respective business unit.
level of scrutiny to businesses with operations or suppliers
in countries where there are traditionally higher risks of • In the Europe, Middle East and Africa region,
compliance violations and/or human rights abuses. We investigations are the responsibility of local Human
continue to be mindful of these concerns as we transition Resources, and are overseen by regional employee
relations teams.
newly acquired businesses into the Johnson & Johnson
Family of Companies, and are prepared to escalate and
• In North America, employees can use the Open Door and
appropriately remediate any issues uncovered.
Common Ground processes, as stipulated in our Guide
for Resolving Employee Disagreements - North America
Grievance Mechanisms
statement.
We are committed to providing effective resolution where
• In all other operating regions outside North America, an
we have caused or contributed to adverse human rights
appeal process to re-open grievances exists under certain
impacts. Where we find impacts directly linked to our
conditions.2018 Health for Humanity Report 103
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Information Security & Privacy
GRI 418 (103)
Protection, availability and integrity of both company The Johnson & Johnson Executive Committee, Regulatory flaws in our products, a mechanism to inform us, so we can
and personal data, as well as appropriate use, are vital Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors, Chief evaluate their finds and take necessary corrective action.
considerations with implications for Johnson & Johnson’s Compliance Officer and Compliance Committee and ISRM
ability to conduct business, build and maintain trust, and each oversee compliance of Johnson & Johnson operating As a leader in the healthcare industry, Johnson & Johnson
remain compliant with laws and regulations. companies across a wide range of topics, including is also engaged with external stakeholders to raise the
Information Security and Privacy. security level of the industry. Examples include partnering
It is incumbent upon Johnson & Johnson to protect with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration on guidelines
the privacy of those who entrust us with their personal The Information Security team has global reach with a for managing medical device security and collaborating
information, and to ensure our products are secure and presence in all regions of the world, and provides ongoing with other healthcare companies and organizations on
safe. Our employees, healthcare professionals, patients, security consulting to all Johnson & Johnson businesses, mechanisms to improve the overall industry security posture.
consumers, and all those who do business with us trust and ensuring they are informed of program policies, procedures The Johnson & Johnson Information Security team also
expect that we will protect information in accordance with and requirements. These activities include mandatory annual maintains close working relationships with peer companies,
legal requirements and our policies. training that underscores the importance of appropriate data industry associations, and government agencies, both to
handling and protection, Mock Phishing campaigns across share best practices and to collaborate on effective solutions
Information Security the Company to raise awareness to phishing attacks that to address the increasing threats and attack methods faced
Data security is a top priority for Johnson & Johnson. We are routinely used by threat actors, and periodic security by both public- and private-sector organizations today.
view information security as a business enabler that facilitates awareness events at Johnson & Johnson sites around the
digital initiatives and are, therefore, making data security globe to reinforce key cyber security protection principles Privacy
investments and continuously working to ensure company with company associates. It is our responsibility to protect the privacy of those who
data—including all personal data—are appropriately entrust us with personal information. This includes our
In addition to protection of data, the security of the
protected. The Johnson & Johnson Information Security and employees, healthcare professionals, patients, consumers,
Company’s supply chain and connected medical devices is
Risk Management (ISRM) organization, led by the Company’s and all those who do business with Johnson & Johnson.
paramount. Product safety depends on a sound approach
Chief Information Security Officer, has developed a robust These stakeholders expect that we will protect personal
to security that protects not just the product, but all the
program to achieve this objective, maintaining and constantly information in accordance with legal requirements, and we
components and processes that help produce it. To support
enhancing capabilities to protect company networks and evolve our policies and practices to continuously deliver
this objective, the Company has taken steps to increase the
data against evolving cyber threats. The program consists on that expectation. While there are varying requirements
cyber security profile of both our supply chain systems and
of an experienced team of seasoned security professionals; relating to privacy, we use a Privacy Framework that
our medical device products throughout their lifecycles.
industry-leading policies and processes; and an array constitutes a baseline applicable to all our operating
For connected medical devices, these steps have included
of protection, detection and response technologies and companies that process Personal Information.
the development of a comprehensive security framework
capabilities, which is periodically assessed by independent,
external consulting firms to both gauge effectiveness and for product development and operation. A section has been This Privacy Framework sets forth mechanisms and
drive continued maturity and improvement. added on our Company website expressly for providing procedures designed to assist our Company in complying
researchers or other third parties, who identify security with privacy obligations. This Framework describes the basic2018 Health for Humanity Report 104
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
privacy principles and organizational compliance standards. • Resources: The GPT assists operating companies with
Each Johnson & Johnson operating company is responsible designating privacy resources, considering their local
for complying with all applicable privacy obligations. requirements and the risk environments.
Obligations may derive from:
• Support: Other Johnson & Johnson organizations
and departments support HCC and Privacy and the
• Country or local laws and regulations;
operational management teams of operating companies
• Johnson & Johnson Corporate Policies applicable to in complying with privacy obligations.
the processing of Personal Information, such as Privacy
Policies and guidance issued by the Privacy organization; We continue to enhance our global privacy programs to
• Policies specific to a Johnson & Johnson operating meet or exceed new and expanding regulatory requirements
company; and for privacy and data protection around the world, such as
Europe’s recent General Data Protection Regulation, new or
• Contractual or other agreements by which a
Johnson & Johnson operating company is bound, anticipated laws in the United States, and new requirements
including privacy statements and consents. in other parts of the globe, such as Brazil, China, Japan,
Korea, Singapore, and elsewhere. In connection with these
The Global Privacy Team (GPT) and the ISRM teams new standards and our ongoing commitment to protect
strengthen the embedding of privacy reviews and privacy risk the privacy of those who entrust us with their personal
assessments in our organizations, reinforcing a formal breach information, we have also strengthened the
notification and escalation process, and strengthen the audit, Johnson & Johnson Privacy Framework to protect against
monitoring and testing strategy. In addition, we consistently increased risk, have added privacy-focused resources
monitor the environment and update our local Privacy in critical regions and markets, and have strengthened
Policies in accordance with new requirements or changes in the privacy risk assessment reviews and updates for
the law of the countries in which we operate. management, leading to a better understanding and
management of the privacy risk across the Enterprise.
Responsibilities for privacy compliance span many
organizations within Johnson & Johnson, and are comprised
of the following:
• Privacy Compliance Program Management and Statement on Privacy
Guidance: Through the Chief Privacy Officer and the
GPT, Johnson & Johnson Global Privacy manages a
privacy compliance program and framework, and guides
Download
operating companies with respect to their compliance
with privacy obligations.
• Operational Management: Operational management
at each Johnson & Johnson operating company is
accountable for establishing and implementing privacy
compliance for that operating company’s operations.2018 Health for Humanity Report 105
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Strong Corporate Governance
GRI 102-18, 102-21, 102-23, 102-24, 102-26, 102-31, 102-32, 102-33, J&J-7 (GRI 103)
High standards of governance are essential to sustaining the trust Corporate Governance e-mail address at WW-Corporate_
of investors and other stakeholders, and to managing our business Governance@its.jnj.com.
Governance with “Common
for the long-term. Our Board of Directors oversees our business to
Sense”
ensure that our strategy is in line with Our Credo values, enabling For more information about our governance structures and Board
us to make a positive contribution to society while maintaining a Charters, please see our 2019 Proxy Statement.
thriving business. Our governance structure, policies and processes
Enterprise Risk Framework
are designed to serve the needs of our business, our shareholders In 2018, our CEO, together with 19 other
and the other stakeholders defined in Our Credo, and to promote a Our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Framework assists the CEOs leading public companies, pension
funds and investment firms, signed the
culture of accountability across Johnson & Johnson. Board and management teams in identifying potential business
Commonsense Corporate Governance
risks. In late 2018, we began working on an update of the Johnson &
Principles 2.0 (“Commonsense
We believe in transparency at every level. That includes our Johnson ERM Framework to align with the Committee of Sponsoring
Principles 2.0”), committing to using
most senior leadership and Board of Directors. Interested parties Organizations of the Treadway Commission’s 2017 ERM framework
these standards to inform the corporate
can contact our Board of Directors at any time by sending update, which highlights the importance of considering risk both in governance practices within their own
communications to Johnson & Johnson, Office of the Corporate the strategy-setting process and in driving performance. We plan to organizations. The Commonsense
Secretary, One Johnson & Johnson Plaza, New Brunswick, NJ publish the updated ERM in 2019. Principles 2.0 aspire to promote a
08933, or via email to LeadDirector@its.jnj.com, or by using the constructive dialogue on good corporate
online submission form on our Corporate Governance website. For more information, please see our Enterprise Risk Management governance to benefit the millions of
General comments to the Company (including complaints or Framework. Americans who work for and invest in
questions about a product) should be sent via the Worldwide America’s public companies, create
economic growth, and sustain the health
of America’s corporations and markets.
They are an updated version of the
Johnson & Johnson Board of Directors
Commonsense Principles successfully
launched in 2016 to build momentum
6 Board Comittees:
around the corporate governance
conversation.
Science, Nominating & Finance Compensation & Regulatory, Audit
Technology & Corporate Benefits Compliance and
Sustainability Governance Government Affairs
Oversees Johnson & Johnson's global Composed of the Chairman of the Board Includes oversight for product quality and
citizenship and sustainability performance and the Lead Director medical safety
11 directors total | 3 women | 10 independent directors2018 Health for Humanity Report 106
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Our Performance
Corporate Governance Indicators 2018 2017
Number of directors on the Board 11 10
Number of independent directors on the Board 10 9
Percentage of independent directors on the Board 91% 90%
Lead independent director Yes Yes
Independent Audit Committee Yes Yes
Independent Compensation & Benefits Committee Yes Yes
Independent Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee Yes Yes
Regulatory Compliance Committee Yes Yes
Independent Science, Technology & Sustainability Committee Yes Yes
Number of regular and special meetings held by the Board of Directors Yes Yes
Independent Compensation & Benefits Committee 9 92018 Health for Humanity Report 107
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Responsible Supply Base
GRI 102-9, GRI 204 (103) , 204-1
As one of the world’s largest healthcare companies, Johnson Sustainable Procurement Program helps us expand supplier
& Johnson maintains operations in virtually all countries of the engagement to a more strategic level. In parallel, we have a
2018 Supplier Spend by Region*
world and works with more than 64,000 suppliers across three dedicated program for supplier diversity, which continues to
business segments. We manage a highly complex network of expand globally.
supplier relationships that are critical to business success and
51% North America
our ability to fulfill our obligations to those we serve. Johnson & Johnson Supply Base At a Glance
33% Europe, Middle East
Our Global Procurement organization manages suppliers in 30
Our approach to managing a responsible supply base includes & Africa
categories, grouped in the following five category families:
ensuring our compliance with global requirements related to 12% Asia Pacific
supply chain transparency and disclosure. Our Responsibility • Supply Chain Materials and Products; 4% Latin America
Standards for Suppliers reflect our internal values and set forth
• Supply Chain Services (Construction, Capital and
the expectations we have of all Johnson & Johnson suppliers.
Facilities Services, and Logistics);
We continue to evolve our processes to better understand the
• R&D;
risk in our supply base, monitor supplier compliance with our 2018 Supplier Spend by Business Segment*
Standards through assessments and on-site audits, and take • Business Services; and
action where necessary.
• Marketing Services.
34% Consumer
We also recognize that to create impact at scale we must
Each category has a category leader who works with the
29% Pharmaceutical
continue moving beyond monitoring compliance by engaging
Sustainable Procurement, Global Supplier Diversity &
with our suppliers and supporting wider industry efforts to 24% Medical Devices
Inclusion, and Environmental Health, Safety & Sustainability
improve transparency and share best practices. To this end, our 13% Corporate
teams to embed social and environmental sustainability
requirements and practices into key supplier management
processes.
“ Our Global Procurement Vision is to
64,000
partner to shape supplier solutions that * Total spend represents addressable spend, i.e. products and services
transform healthcare. We believe in the that procurement team can negotiate with suppliers to meet business
suppliers globally
power of partnership with our suppliers to goals; total spend in 2018 excludes Actelion, Abott Medical Optics,
enable sustainable innovation and exciting Orthotaxy and Zarbees.
opportunities to make a difference in all our
markets. ” $29.4B
Len DeCandia, Chief Procurement Officer,
total supplier spend*
Johnson & Johnson2018 Health for Humanity Report 108
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Engaging Our Suppliers
supply chain rating platform, and we monitor EcoVadis scores with
Our Global Procurement organization is responsible for managing an expectation of improvement over time. Additionally, suppliers ON TRACK
supplier relations and hosting a Citizenship Center of Excellence are required to implement at least one of the following goals
that advances sustainability within our global supply base. Global established by our procurement teams: 2020 Goal Progress
Procurement works closely with the Environmental Health,
• Publicly report two or more sustainability goals and track
Safety & Sustainability organization to monitor and verify supplier Enrolled suppliers covering
progress over time;
compliance with our environmental health and safety requirements. approximately
• Participate annually in CDP Supply Chain reporting; 61%
Our approach to managing responsible supply includes:
• Achieve a minimum standard in EcoVadis, public reporting, or
• Ensuring compliance with global requirements related to supply
CDP as a High Performer;
chain transparency and disclosure;
• Achieve industry-specific goals, e.g., gaining certain certification,
• Assessing supplier conformance with Johnson & Johnson’s of spend in our Sustainable
specific public reporting, or delivering social projects.
Responsibility Standards for Suppliers as well as applicable Procurement Program.
legal and regulatory requirements;
The requirements for all enrolled suppliers are fully transparent, View Scorecard
and are communicated through our Supplier Sustainability Toolkit,
• Auditing supplier performance, with the audit approach
prioritized based on EcoVadis scores, geographic location, and and available on our corporate website.
the procurement category, among other criteria;
In 2018, we achieved recognition by CDP as a CDP Supplier
• Expanding supplier engagement through our Sustainable Engagement Leader for leadership on supplier engagement to
Procurement Program (SPP) to support suppliers in achieving tackle climate change. We were among the highest-scoring
excellence by embedding sustainable social and environmental 3% of companies in CDP’s third annual Supplier Engagement
practices, including transparency, target setting and public Rating. This Supplier Engagement leader board recognizes
disclosure, into their businesses and respective supply chains.
organizations from around the world for their work to manage
and reduce carbon emissions and address climate-related issues
Sustainable Procurement Program
across their supply chains in the past CDP-reporting year. We are
We continue working toward our Health for Humanity 2020 Goal— the first healthcare company to be admitted to CDP’s Supplier
to enroll supplies covering 80% of our spend in our SPP. In 2018, we Engagement leader board.
achieved our annual target of enrolling 61% of spend in our SPP. Recognition from EcoVadis
EcoVadis, a leading provider of business
To participate in our SPP, all suppliers, upon enrollment, complete
sustainability ratings for global supply
an assessment through EcoVadis, a globally recognized third-party
chains recognized Johnson & Johnson
as the winner in the Stakeholder
Engagement category in EcoVadis’
2018 Sustainable Procurement
41%
Leadership Awards. This award honors
best-in-class practices of driving
of suppliers enrolled in SPP have two or more publicly
internal engagement to roll out global
reported sustainability goals
sustainable procurement programs.2018 Health for Humanity Report 109
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Our Performance
Sustainable Procurement Program (SPP) 2018 2017 2016
Spend with suppliers enrolled in SPP (billions)* $16.327 $14.969 $12.796
Percentage of total supplier spend attributable to suppliers enrolled in SPP 61% 51% 44%
Suppliers newly enrolled in SPP, annual 139 33 228
Suppliers enrolled in SPP, cumulative since the program launch (2015) 500 361 328
Suppliers invited to participate in CDP Supply Chain Climate program 305 250 244
Percentage participated 90% 97% 92%
Suppliers invited to participate in CDP Supply Chain Water program 108 108 79
Percentage participated 88% 86% 58%
* Total spend represents addressable spend, i.e. products and services that procurement team can negotiate with
suppliers to meet business goals; total spend in 2018 excludes Actelion, Abott Medical Optics, Orthotaxy and Zarbees.2018 Health for Humanity Report 110
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Supplier Assessments & Audits We systematically screen suppliers to be audited for EHS
compliance based on EcoVadis scores, type of goods and services
GRI 308 (103), 308-1, 308-2, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1, 412-1, 414 (103), 414-1 EHS trainings provided to
provided, and geographical location. In 2018, 870 suppliers were in
suppliers
We believe in maintaining strict controls in our supply chain to scope for our EHS risk assessment.
minimize negative impacts on the environment and people, and
ensure human rights are upheld in our value chain. We strive to work We particularly focus on the following types of suppliers for audits:
with suppliers who share our values and commitment to operating • External manufacturers 9 virtual trainings
responsibly and ethically. All suppliers are expected to comply with
• Active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) suppliers 5 classroom trainings
our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers (the Standards), available in
13 languages. Our standard Purchase Order (PO) Terms & Conditions • Biologics/vaccine suppliers
2 PSCI-led trainings
(T&Cs) in North America reflects the Standards, and we are in the • R&D suppliers
process of making similar changes to PO T&Cs worldwide in the
• Chemicals suppliers
applicable local languages. All new and current Global Procurement
employees must complete a mandatory training on the Standards. The New external manufacturers and APIs or biologics or vaccines
training is also available to relevant employees in other functions. suppliers located in a high-risk country34 are automatically 1,575
subjected to an on-site audit.
We verify and monitor supplier compliance on a regular basis through
or
a formal assessment and audit programs. Initial risk assessments All EHS site audits are conducted using the audit protocol and
94.37%
are largely administered through a globally recognized third-party checklist developed by the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative
program called EcoVadis. These assessments are conducted for (PSCI). We identify supplier non-compliances in the areas of
suppliers participating in our Sustainable Procurement Program or environment, health and safety, and management systems. While of all Global Procurement employees
through our Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) risk assessment we maintain a separate social audit program, a small number of and
program. EcoVadis assessments provide an initial screening of supplier these audits also focus on compliance with labor and business ethics
performance, and the results (a score) play an important role in provisions of the Standards. 19,928
determining which suppliers may require an on-site audit.
Social Audits employees in other functions
We have had a well-established EHS audit program in place since
Social audits are conducted according to SMETA 4 guidelines by completed training on Responsibility
2006. In recent years, in part because of our engagement with
an accredited external audit firm on behalf of Johnson & Johnson. Standards for Suppliers
different working groups and organizations on human rights
Supplier selection and prioritization criteria include results of EcoVadis
and social aspects of supply chains, we further standardized our
scores on Labor and Business Ethics, location in a country considered
framework for ensuring supplier compliance with our human rights
high risk for violation of human rights, and the supplier category. In
standards by launching a dedicated social audit program. Refer to
2018, we rolled out our social audit program, with 11 audits completed
the list of our policies and statements included in the Respect for
by year end. We plan to expand the program in the coming years to
Human Rights section above.
cover more geographic regions and procurement categories.
EHS Audits
Addressing Non-Compliance
The majority of our supplier EHS audits are conducted by our
We categorize supplier non-compliances for both EHS and social
Environmental Health, Safety & Sustainability organization,
audits as critical,35 major and minor, and communicate the findings
leveraging our internal EHS expertise and on-the-ground presence
to each supplier. We communicate our expectation that suppliers
in various geographic regions. In some cases, EHS audits are
must implement time-bound corrective actions and demonstrate
conducted by third-party firms on behalf of Johnson & Johnson.
improvement.2018 Health for Humanity Report 111
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
When critical findings are identified during audit, we expect
immediate mitigation of the risk.
Our Performance
We aim to maintain long-term relationships with suppliers, and
prefer to work with them to resolve audit findings. For our EHS audit
Supplier EcoVadis Assessments GRI 308-2 Supplier EHS Audits
program, we provide the following forms of support for post-audit
supplier improvement: 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
EcoVadis assessments EHS audits and technical
• Follow-up technical visits36 that include expert training and best 542 685 496 185 189 156
completed visits completed, total
practice sharing;
• Business reviews with direct coaching and guidance; Supplier risk ranking based on EcoVadis assessments EHS audits 101 Not Reported Not Reported
• Information provided in Sustainability Toolkit for Suppliers; Low-risk 323 342 230 Technical visits 84 Not Reported Not Reported
• Supplier relationship management engagement; and Medium-risk 195 301 223 Audits and technical visits, by region
• Supplier capability-building conferences, webinars and other
High-risk 24 42 43 Asia Pacific 155 162 125
resources.
Europe, Middle East &
If significant non-conformance with our standards cannot be Africa 18 21 24
sufficiently resolved, we withdraw existing business or decline to Supplier Social Audits 2018
start business with a new supplier. Latin America 5 6 3
Supplier social audits completed, total 11
North America 7 – 4
Key Memberships
Completed using SMETA 4-pillar protocol 9
Number of suppliers
While we work hard to positively impact the suppliers within our
identified as high risk for
immediate sphere of influence, achieving complete visibility into Completed using PSCI protocol 2
non-conformance to Johnson 23 23 31
multi-tier supply chains requires concerted efforts from industry
Supplier social audits completed, by region & Johnson Responsibility
and other stakeholders. This is one of the reasons we actively
Standards for Suppliers
participate in global healthcare industry forums that aim to raise the Asia Pacific 8
bar on supply chain responsibility and transparency by addressing Number of critical EHS
systemic issues that no one company can solve alone. We continue Europe, Middle East & Africa 1 findings identified as a result 27 25 Not Reported
to participate in such forums in the following roles: Latin America 2 of EHS audits
Safety-related 21 22 Not Reported
• Founding member of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative North America –
(PSCI), which brings together pharmaceutical and healthcare Environmental-related 6 3 Not Reported
companies to champion responsible supply chain practices. Number of critical findings identified as a result –
Johnson & Johnson endorses the Principles established by the of supplier social audits
PSCI, and we have updated our own Responsibility Standards
for Suppliers in line with PSCI principles and guidance.
• Member of the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) through which
we participate in working groups that aim to standardize and
advance environmental and social sustainability practices
across the consumer goods supply chains.
• Member of the Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) Human
Rights Working Group established in 2012.2018 Health for Humanity Report 112
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Sourcing Responsibly Palm-Derived Ingredients
Our commitment to environmental health includes sourcing We purchase ingredients from suppliers that make Partnership with EcoHealth
our raw materials and packaging in a sustainable manner, both ingredients derived from palm oil. We are committed, Alliance
to mitigate the effects of planetary resource depletion and to therefore, to using our influence to help stop deforestation
protect biodiversity while ensuring that human rights and fair labor related to the production of palm oil.
conditions are upheld throughout our supply chain. In 2018, we initiated two new multi-year
• We work with the Earthworm Foundation (EF), which
partnerships with EcoHealth Alliance,
until 2019 was known as The Forest Trust, to develop
Our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers outline our a nonprofit working at the intersection
and implement specific sourcing requirements for
baseline expectations for any supplier working with us. In of animal, environmental, and human
our suppliers that purchase palm oil, palm kernel oil,
addition, we developed specific responsible sourcing criteria for health on a global scale, and World
or ingredients derived from palm or palm kernel oils.
commodities that have been linked to deforestation, including Wildlife Fund (WWF). Our project with
Together with EF, we use data from our suppliers
palm oil derivatives and wood-fiber-based products . We are to assess risks, investigate non-conformances, and the EcoHealth Alliance will pioneer
making progress in implementing these commodity-specific engage with suppliers on issues as they arise. Extensive the development of a “One Health”
policy framework for making land use
sourcing criteria, including educating our direct suppliers on our information, including our transparency metrics and
decisions that consider socioeconomic
expectations, driving transparency improvements in these supply details on the status of non-conformances, are available
factors together with environmental and
chains, and executing non-conformance processes that maximize on the EF Transparency Hub.
human health outcomes. This work is
our influence where we have discovered, or been made aware of,
• We are members of Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil initially focused on Liberia, which has
actions that violate our criteria. (RSPO) and publish our derivatives volume information significant remaining intact forests. Our
annually in our RSPO Annual Communication of work with WWF includes advancing a
Progress, which also details our efforts to purchase jurisdictional approach to sustainable
ingredients derived from RSPO-certified palm and palm palm oil production in Southeast Asia
kernel oil. and embedding human health dynamics
Responsible Palm Oil
into the development of Science Based
Sourcing Criteria Wood-Fiber Products Targets for Forests.
For wood-fiber products, we worked with the Rainforest
Download
Alliance to update our sourcing criteria in 2018 to align with
the principles set forth by the Forest Stewardship Council
(FSC). As with palm oil, we support certification schemes as
More
the most efficient means to ensure the wood-fiber products
Wood-Fiber Products that we buy meet our sourcing criteria, with our preference Resources
being FSC-certified supply.
Sourcing Criteria
Every two years, we conduct a survey of both our top Palm Oil
Download suppliers based on spend as well as all suppliers in
Asia Pacific, in which we request country-of-origin and
certification information. Based on this information, we
assess risk for non-conformance with our criteria and work
to verify conformance, either through certification or other2018 Health for Humanity Report 113
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
verification steps, if warranted.
Building upon last year's efforts to engage and educate our supplier
Conflict Minerals Statement
base, in 2018 we worked with the Rainforest Alliance to review and
revise our supplier survey and data collection process to improve
transparency in our paper-based packaging supply chains. A new
Download
survey was distributed to the suppliers that constitute the top 87%
(approximately) of our 2018 cartons and corrugated-paper-based
packaging spend.
The data we receive from our suppliers, following analysis and
interpretation, will be used to inform our future focus, priorities
and work plans. In 2019, we will continue our partnership with the
Rainforest Alliance to develop supplier-specific action plans to
ensure continued progress toward compliance with our sourcing
principles and criteria.
Conflict Minerals
Conflict Minerals Rule 13p-1 under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 requires public reporting companies that manufacture or
contract to manufacture products containing “conflict minerals”
(defined as tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold [3TG]) to conduct
due diligence on the source and chain of custody of those conflict
minerals to help determine whether they originated from the
Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries, and directly
or indirectly financed or benefited armed groups in those countries.
Our Statement on Conflict Minerals outlines our commitment to
taking steps to determine the use, country of origin and source of
3TG in our global product portfolio.
Based on our due diligence efforts for the 2018 reporting period,
we do not have conclusive information regarding the country of
origin or facilities used to process the necessary conflict minerals
in the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies’ products. For more
information, see our Conflict Minerals Report for the calendar year
ended December 31, 2018.
Johnson & Johnson is a member of the Responsible Minerals
Initiative (RMI), formerly the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative. RMI
is a cross-industry organization that provides resources, tools and
information to help companies source conflict-free minerals.2018 Health for Humanity Report 114
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Enhancing Supplier Diversity Innovation in supplier diversity
Diversity of thought, culture, perspective and experience can help In 2018, we hosted a Peer Ideation Event, bringing together over 100 ON TRACK
us unlock a world of innovative solutions to solve pressing global procurement and diversity and inclusion leaders from across 27 peer
health issues, and this is as true in our supply chain as it is in other companies, to share best practices and generate new actionable 2020 Goal Progress
parts of our operations. ideas for supplier diversity growth and value in the Marketing and
Business Services category family. The event included highlights Exceeded benchmark diverse supplier
The Johnson & Johnson Supplier Diversity Program aims to: about veteran- and LGBT-owned businesses, and debates about spending at 9.7% and benchmark
the challenges and best practices relating to supplier diversity and small supplier spending at 18.9% of
1. Support the communities in which we live and work through the opportunities to enhance results across all companies. total U.S. spend.
creation of jobs and economic empowerment.
Expanded our supplier diversity and
2. Reflect the diversity of the consumers and patients who benefit Advancing women-owned suppliers
inclusion programs to one additional
from our products.
Around the world, we support and partner with WeConnect
country (Japan) for a total of 13
3. Respond to the requirements of our customers who expect International, a global organization that identifies, educates, countries against the baseline of six.
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies to share their values. registers and certifies women-owned businesses outside the United
States and connects them with buyers around the world. Our aim is
4. Partner with superior, small and diverse firms and advocacy
to ensure our supply chain is reflective of our customer base, while View Scorecard
groups that can provide value to our businesses, and throughout
expanding our sourcing opportunities from qualified suppliers with
our supply chain.
equal opportunity for women-owned businesses, among others.
Our Global Supplier Diversity and Inclusion (GSDI) leadership,
In Japan, we support the Japanese Government’s “Act on
within Procurement, oversees the Supplier Diversity Program,
and has a track record in advancing supplier diversity within our Promotion of Women's Participation and Advancement in the “ We are firmly behind efforts to
Workplace,” demonstrating our mutual interests in unlocking the
business for more than 20 years. We proactively reach out to advance women in our global sup-
value that women can bring to our Company and the Japanese
diverse businesses to help ensure awareness of opportunities with ply chain. The power of the global
economy. In November 2018, WeConnect International Japan
Johnson & Johnson and provide guidance on registering interest in WeConnect network in helping
hosted, and Johnson & Johnson sponsored, the first-ever
doing business with our Company. Also, we engage with partners women to gain visibility as well as
conference on Global Supplier Diversity and Inclusion. We
who support outreach and engagement with diverse suppliers. support is immense, and we are
shared the stage with the Minister of State for Gender Equality,
For more information on our GSDI Program and supplier diversity proud to play a role in moving this
certification requirements, please visit the Supplier Diversity page Ms. Satsuki Katayama, the only female member of the Japanese forward. ”
cabinet to share insights and reconfirm our commitment to
on our website.
supporting women-owned businesses. Julian Hooks, Vice President and
For the eighth consecutive year, Johnson & Johnson maintained Chief Procurement Officer,
membership in the Billion Dollar Roundtable, a group of companies Following a successful 2017 launch, the Women Mentoring Women Corporate Tier,
Program continued in 2018, connecting the strengths of women- Johnson & Johnson
that advanced best practices for supplier diversity, and that spend
owned businesses with those of Johnson & Johnson Procurement
at least $1 billion (Tier 1) annually with certified minority-, women-,
women leaders in a reciprocal mentoring relationship. Looking
veteran-, LGBT-, and disability-owned businesses.
ahead, we have identified opportunities to expand the mentorships
to support supplier capability building and development of
Johnson & Johnson women leaders across the Enterprise.2018 Health for Humanity Report 115
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Supplier Diversity Categories at
Our Performance
Johnson & Johnson
Diverse Supplier Spend in the U.S.* 2018 2017 2016
Diverse supplier spend (billions) $1.42 $1.41 $1.30 • NMSDC, MSDUK, and Supply Nation certified Minority-Owned
Businesses
Percentage of total supplier spend attributable to diverse suppliers 9.7% 10.3% 9.9%
• WBENC and WEConnect International certified Women-Owned
Businesses
Small supplier spend (billions) $2.76 $2.67 $2.69
• Disability:IN certified Disability-Owned Businesses
Percentage of total supplier spend attributable to small suppliers 18.9% 19.4% 20.6%
• NVBDC certified Veteran-Owned Businesses
Spend with lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender suppliers (millions) $2 $1 $1 • NGLCC certified LGBT-Owned Businesses
• Small Businesses (US)
Spend with veteran- and disabled-owned suppliers (millions) $139 $130 $78
• Small Disadvantaged Businesses
* Total spend represents addressable spend, i.e. products and services that procurement team can negotiate with • Small Veteran-Owned Businesses
suppliers to meet business goals; total spend in 2018 excludes Actelion, Abott Medical Optics, Orthotaxy and Zarbees. • Small Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Businesses
• Small Women-Owned Businesses
• Small HUB-Zone Businesses2018 Health for Humanity Report 116
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Environmental Health
Our planet is facing unprecedented environmental challenges,
including climate change, water scarcity, degradation of ecosystems,
and natural resources depletion. According to the World Economic
Forum's The Global Risks Report 2019, for the third year in a row
the environment-related risks are among the greatest concerns by
likelihood and impact raised by experts.37
As a global manufacturer, we recognize our role in helping to conserve
and protect natural resources. As a leader in the healthcare industry,
we know that human health is inextricably linked to the health of the
planet—we can’t have healthy people and communities without a
healthy environment. To this end, we are committed to marshaling our
expertise, resources and partnerships to reduce the environmental
footprint of our operations, our products and our extended supply
chain, while delivering Better Health for All.
Our performance reflects decades of proactive environmental
stewardship, guided by Our Credo which states: “We must maintain
in good order the property we are privileged to use, protecting the
environment and natural resources.” Our approach is based on:
• Optimizing our operations by improving water and energy
efficiency and reducing our waste footprint;
• Reducing lifecycle impacts of our products and solutions by
focusing on sustainable design, material use efficiency, reduction
in product packaging, and managing product end-of-life impacts;
• Encouraging our suppliers to make environmental improvements
in their own businesses and respective supply chains;
• Partnering with stakeholders to influence change on a broader
scale beyond our own operations.2018 Health for Humanity Report 117
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Key Achievements in 2018
• Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc. joined the New Plastics
Economy Global Commitment.
• Earned a place on CDP’s Climate Change A List among
companies demonstrating global leadership on corporate
climate action.
• Executed our first long-term “Green Tariff” agreement to
power a portion of our manufacturing operations in the state of
Georgia, U.S., from a new utility-scale solar installation.
• Expanded on-site renewable energy generation capacity by
commissioning our fourth wind turbine in Ireland.
Areas of Opportunity
• Continue to establish Johnson & Johnson as a leader in
addressing the link between the environment and human
health through advocacy efforts, innovative partnerships and #EmbracingSustainability
supporting academic research.
In November 2018, our Chairman
and CEO Alex Gorsky took the
• Further enhance supplier engagement programs to encourage
#EmbracingSustainability Challenge
suppliers to reduce their GHG emissions associated with our
as part of a new campaign at Business
purchased goods and services.
Roundtable, an association of CEOs
• Identify short- and long-term actions against each of the from America's top companies, inviting
four targets outlined in the New Plastics Economy Global America's top CEOs to share how
Commitment. they are helping improve the health
of the environment. Rising to the
• Identify new opportunities to advance circular economy models challenge, Alex shared how important
in emerging markets where waste and recycling infrastructure environmental stewardship is for
is limited. Johnson & Johnson and for us all.
Check out the video here.2018 Health for Humanity Report 118
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
EHS&S Management
GRI 302 (103) , 307-1
EHS&S Governance EHS&S Management System
• Our global Environmental Health, Safety & • We maintain a comprehensive suite of EHS&S Our Performance
Sustainability (EHS&S) team is headed by our Vice Standards that provide frameworks for action across
President, EHS&S, and partners with other functional our operations. These Standards are reviewed
teams throughout Johnson & Johnson to drive annually. EHS Governance
environmental sustainability and workplace safety
2018 2017 2016
across our entire value chain. The EHS Council, • We certify our manufacturing and R&D sites to ISO
comprised of the EHS&S leadership team and 14001 Environmental Management System Standard Number of manufacturing and
representatives from business segments, provides within three years of establishment or acquisition. R&D sites certified to ISO 14001 112 102 101
additional guidance.
• We maintain an audit program focusing on EHS
Percentage of manufacturing and
• The Johnson & Johnson Executive Committee and compliance and risk, with operational and R&D sites 99% 94% 94%
R&D sites certified to ISO 14001
the Board of Directors provide oversight. audited every three years. Findings and corrective
actions are tracked and addressed.
Percentage of manufacturing
• The Science, Technology & Sustainability Committee
and R&D sites certified to the
(STSC) of our Board of Directors provides support by • We also maintain a management incident notification
Occupational Health and Safety 32% 33% 33%
identifying emerging science and technology policy process for applicable EHS&S non-compliances,
Assessment Series (OHSAS)
and public health issues. In addition, STSC reviews accidental releases, and safety incidents within both
Financial-related
Johnson & Johnson policies, goals and performance four hours of occurrence for awareness and 24 hours
related to environmental sustainability. of occurrence for additional information.
Number of environmental non-
44 64 144
compliances
• The Regulatory Compliance Committee of the Board
of Directors oversees compliance with environment,
Fines paid for environmental non-
health and safety (EHS) regulatory requirements and $2 -- --
compliances (thousands)
overall workplace safety performance.
For our published policies and statements relating to
EHS&S, please see:
• Environment, Health & Safety Policy
• Climate Policy
• Statement on Respecting Biodiversity
• Wood-Fiber Products Sourcing Principles
• Impact of Pharmaceuticals and Personal Care
Products in the Environment
• Responsible Palm Oil Sourcing Criteria2018 Health for Humanity Report 119
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Climate & Energy
GRI 302 (103), GRI 305 (103)
Becoming more energy- and carbon- We focus our energy and carbon
efficient are essential ways we can efficiency work on three main areas:
CO Capital Relief Program
improve our impact on the planet while reducing energy demand and maximizing 2 ON TRACK
Overview (2005-2018)
maintaining cost-effective manufacturing energy efficiency in our operations;
and supply for our patients, consumers shifting to low-carbon and renewable 2020 Goal Progress
and customers around the world. energy sources to meet the remaining
demand; and improving our influence • 249 projects approved CO emissions decreased by
2
We have a long history of innovation and over emissions in our value chain. • 217 projects completed 26%
leadership in energy management, and • $412 million total spend on
have taken sustained, long-term Energy Efficiency & Renewables in completed projects
action to reduce our greenhouse gas Direct Operations • $76 million annual energy cost
(GHG) emissions. Guided by our savings*
Our science-based Scope 1 and Scope 2
Climate Policy, our approach is • 2,109 TJ annual energy savings* globally since 2010
absolute CO emission reduction targets
multi-faceted, and includes: 2 • 276,196 MT CO annual GHG (Scope 1 and Scope 2).
are a key part of our Health for Humanity 2
emissions avoided*
• Understanding and managing our 2020 Goals, and commit us to ambitious View Scorecard
carbon footprint in direct operations reductions through 2050. In addition to * Results from completed projects. The types
and across the value chain; this Report, we disclose our performance of energy included in the total energy use
against these public commitments in the reduction are fuel and electricity. Reductions
• Setting science-based targets for
CDP Climate Change Report. In 2018, we in energy consumption and GHG emissions
our operations to reduce carbon
avoided are calculated by comparing energy
footprint; have been recognized as a global leader
consumption before project implementation
on corporate climate action by inclusion
• Measuring and publicly reporting and expected consumption after
in the CDP “Climate Change A list.”
progress in reducing our carbon implementation. Our project data are based on
footprint; engineering estimates at the time the projects
We use ISO 50001 as a guide in our
are approved.
• Working with suppliers to encourage energy management strategy, focusing
emissions reductions across our value our efforts on the most energy-intensive
chain;
equipment and creating goals and
• Partnering with governments, programs to address it.
advocacy groups and partners in the
healthcare industry to unite efforts
Energy efficiency programs
and create impact at scale; and
Energy efficiency programs at our most
• Supporting responsible climate and
energy-intensive manufacturing and
energy policy around the world.
R&D sites remain a priority with up to2018 Health for Humanity Report 120
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
$40 million per year in capital relief for energy projects through
the Johnson & Johnson CO Capital Relief Program. To be eligible
for funding, projects must
d2
emonstrate potential CO savings ON TRACK
2 On-Site Clean Energy Capacity
and should provide a financial return of 15% or higher. In 2018,
2020 Goal Progress
we approved 12 new projects and spent a total of $26.5 million.
Key focus areas included chilled water system optimization, 38% Solar PV 31%
HVAC system optimization, steam generation and distribution,
35% Co-generation
compressed air system, and LED lighting. Since its inception, the
21% Wind
Capital Relief Program has funded 249 projects, with 16 of those
3% Geothermal
completed in 2018.
2% Biomass of total electricity consumption
1% Fuel cells generated from renewable sources.
Increasing renewable energy
To continue toward our public aspiration of powering 100% of
our facilities with renewable energy by 2050, we have been View Scorecard
strategically increasing our proportion of renewable energy, both
through renewable electricity procurement and through on-site
renewable energy technology including solar PV and wind. In and contributing renewable electricity for additional material
2017, we started benefiting from electricity from a wind farm in handling for approximately 10,000 orders a day that go through the
Texas through our long-term power purchase agreement with distribution center.
E.ON Climate & Renewables. We are exploring additional power
purchase agreements globally to support low-carbon operations
Leader in renewable energy
in other countries as well as seeking new opportunities to invest in
on-site renewable energy installations. In January 2018, Johnson & Johnson was named number 28 on
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA’s) National Top
In 2018, we executed our first long-term “Green Tariff” agreement 100 List of the largest green power users from the Green Power
to power a portion of our manufacturing operations in the U.S. Partnership. The Partnership currently has more than 1,600
State of Georgia from a new utility-scale solar installation. We partners—including companies, governments and universities—
also expanded our on-site renewable energy generation capacity voluntarily using more than 45 billion kilowatt hours of green power
with the commissioning of the fourth wind turbine in Ireland. In annually. The EPA defines green power as electricity produced
Florida, U.S., we installed an 8,000-square-foot solar panel array from solar, wind, geothermal, biogas, eligible biomass, and low-
at our Jacksonville distribution center. The new solar panels have impact small hydroelectric sources.
a capacity of 115 kilowatts, providing up to 100% of the operations
56.4
megawatts on-site clean energy
technology capacity as of 20182018 Health for Humanity Report 121
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Green buildings
52
We believe that green buildings are healthy not only for the
environment but also for our employees. Our goal is to have all
new Johnson & Johnson buildings and renovations with a cost Johnson & Johnson buildings are LEED-certified, totaling
of $5 million or more certified under Leadership in Energy and 7.9 million square feet, or 12.6% of all building space
Environmental Design (LEED), the most widely used green building
protocol in the world.
Reducing Value Chain Footprint
New LEED certifications
Like many companies of our size, tracking and reporting Scope 3
GHG emissions is a challenge because of the scale of our supply
chain, measurement accuracy and limited availability of third-party
Our Xi’an Janssen Peak Project in China received LEED
data. In 2018, we enhanced our modeling methodology of various
Gold Certification for its outstanding performance in
Scope 3 emissions categories and for the first time are able to report
water resources utilization, energy efficiency, and use of
data for all 11 categories relevant to our business for the period from
environmentally friendly materials. Xi’an Peak is the first
2016 – 2018. This assessment confirmed that our largest source
certified new construction LEED Gold-level
of emissions is from the upstream goods and services that we
manufacturing facility in Johnson & Johnson.
purchase, so we will continue to focus on improvements in this area.
Our new nine-floor office in Bogota, Colombia, achieved
Our EHS&S organization partners closely with our Global
Platinum certification—the highest possible rating
Procurement teams to advance supplier engagement on
from LEED.
environmental matters. For example, through our Sustainable
Procurement Program, we encourage our suppliers to set, and to
report on, the progress of public environmental goals, including
targets related to energy use and carbon emissions reduction. For
more information, see Responsible Supply Base section.
Johnson & Johnson participates in coalitions
that support actions to promote a low-carbon
Sustainable transportation
economy and mitigate climate change,
We work with our transportation providers to optimize our including
distribution network, using multi-compartment trailers,
consolidating shipments and optimizing transportation routes.
Johnson & Johnson participates in the U.S. EPA's SmartWay
• The World Wildlife Fund’s Climate Savers Program
program, which helps companies voluntarily increase
• The Climate Group’s RE100 Program
transportation energy efficiency while decreasing GHG emissions
and air pollution. At the same time, the SmartWay Transport • We Are Still In Initiative
Partnership helps freight companies improve fuel efficiency, • Climate Leadership Council
increase environmental performance, and increase supply chain
• C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group
sustainability. For the past three years (2016 – 2018),2018 Health for Humanity Report 122
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
1,400 90.0
1,200
75.0
1,000
60.0
800
45.0
600
30.0
400
15.0
200
0 0.0
'09 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14 '15 '16 '17
Net Emissions Sales
]e2OC
TM
dnasuohT[
snoissimE
GHG
Sales
[Billion
USD]
Johnson & Johnson has been recognized with the U.S. EPA’s
SmartWay Excellence Award in recognition of our environmental GHG Emissions (Facilities, Scope 1 & Scope 2) vs. Sales, 2009-2018
performance and additional actions to reduce freight emissions
through collaboration, operational practices, robust validating and
reporting systems, communications and public outreach.
We also provide incentives for customers to place orders in
quantities that optimize the use of space on trailers, which reduces
the number of deliveries and makes it more efficient to schedule,
load and unload goods. Similarly, we work with customers to
achieve idle-time reduction and faster turnaround times at
distribution centers through delivery scheduling and, where
available, offering electrical connections for truck charging.
Healthier and more sustainable cities
In 2018, we were proud to partner with the @c40cities Climate
Leadership Group on research on the health co-benefits of cities
acting on climate change. The interim results of our work with
the C40 cities were published to highlight the health benefits
that cities can achieve if they pursue efficient buildings and clean
transport and industry, all supported by a clean energy grid. The
'18
research, co-funded by Johnson & Johnson, indicates that actions
by cities in these areas could not only yield an 87% reduction in
GHG emissions, a 49% reduction in air pollution measured by
PM2.5 levels, and up to $583 billion in economic benefit, but
also prevent 223,000 premature deaths annually. For more about
sustainable cities and to download the research, see here.2018 Health for Humanity Report 123
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Our Performance
Energy Use1 GRI 302-1, 302-3, 302-4
2018 2017 2016
Total energy use (TJ) 13,208 12,685 12,811
From renewable sources 2,246 1,816 174
From non-renewable sources 10,962 10,869 12,637
Energy intensity ratio (TJ/billion USD)2 162 164 176
Percent change in energy intensity compared to 2010 baseline (TJ/billion USD)2 -24% -24% -19%
Purchased Energy Use by Type (TJ)1 GRI 302-2 On-Site Generated Energy Use by Type (TJ)1 GRI 302-2
2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
Electricity 6,583 6,352 6,579 Co-generation 525 581 627
Natural gas 5,020 4,892 5,116 Wind 78 65 60
Diesel 592 929 631
Solar PV 56 82 85
Direct heating/cooling 180 238 216
Geothermal 18 24 25
Propane 90 64 82
Fuel cell 23 24 26
Biogas 28 23 0
Biomass 2 2 2
Fuel Oil 15 15 15
Total on-site generated
701 778 825
Total purchased energy 12,507 12,512 12,639 energy2018 Health for Humanity Report 124
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Our Performance, cont.
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions3 GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 2018 2017 2016 Air Emissions by Category15 GRI 305-6, 305-7
Scope 1 GHG emissions, total (MT COe)4 445,054 458,573 467,959 2018 2017 2016
2
Scope 1 GHG emissions by source (MT COe)4
2 Hazardous air pollutant (HAP)
30.25 50.14 54.00
Facilities1 300,847 313,807 303,334 emissions (MT)16
Sales fleet 122,194 123,179 134,502
Volatile organic compound
414.05 607.99 501.00
Refrigerants 12,298 9,830 18,372 (VOC) emissions (MT)16
Aviation 9,715 11,757 11,751
Particulate matter (PM)
Scope 2 GHG emissions, facilities (MT COe)1, 4 247.14 205.22 182.00
2 emissions (MT)17
Location-based 680,326 663,447 682,203
Refrigerant emissions (MT) 7.85 6.12 12.91
Market-based5 550,480 604,457 Not Reported
Scope 3 GHG emissions, by source (MT CO 2e)4, 14 Ozone-depleting substances
1.53 2.35 3.61
Purchased goods and services6 8,826,462 8,117,919 9,336,787 emissions (MT)
Upstream transportation and distribution6 2,039,872 1,893,440 2,083,011
Sulfur oxide (SO) emissions
2 64 99 68
Business travel6, 7 775,747 692,914 764,080 (MT)16
Employee commuting8 351,260 348,400 330,460
Mono-nitrogen oxides (NOx)
Capital goods6 271,422 246,076 135,769 emissions (MT) 288 290 292
Fuel- and energy-related activities9 50,821 46,524 52,815
Upstream leased assets10 39,981 45,702 30,693
Waste generated in operations11 2,983 4,141 12,785
Downstream product transportation12 Available 12/2019 45,850 48,561
Use of sold products13
Direct 78,051 73,503 176,402
Indirect 6,894,347 6,260,427 6,649,429
End-of-life treatment of sold products13 222,404 211,531 235,803
GHG emissions intensity ratio (Scope 1 and Scope 2) per revenue (MT COe/million USD) 12 14 16
2
Percent decrease in GHG emissions intensity (Scope 1 and Scope 2) per revenue
45% 37% 10.4%
compared to 2010 baseline (MT COe /million USD)
22018 Health for Humanity Report 125
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
1. Includes site-specific data from all Johnson & Johnson-owned and primary data were able to be obtained, they were used in place of 14. Emissions from the Processing of Sold Products, Downstream
-leased sites over 50,000 square feet, as well as manufacturing and the IO calculation methodology. Leased Assets, Franchises, and Investments are not applicable to
R&D sites under 50,000 square feet, unless otherwise noted. Johnson & Johnson operations.
7. Business Travel emissions for reporting year 2016 and 2017 are
2. Our diverse product portfolio makes it difficult to track an being restated due to the availability of spend data in categories 15. Where relevant, prior year data have been restated, reflecting
organization-specific metric, therefore we use revenue as that were not previously available. improvements in data quality over time.
denominator for energy intensity. Energy intensity ratio includes
8. Emissions from Employee Commuting were calculated using survey 16. HAP, VOC and SOx emissions decreased in 2018 significantly
electricity, stationary fuels, and district heating and cooling.
data from several properties and extrapolated for global operations. compared to 2017, due to emergency generators operating for an
3. Selected year 2018 global GHG emissions inventory including It should be noted that due to the assumptions that were made, extended time during the Hurricane Maria in 2017.
Scope 1, Scope 2 (location- and market-based) emissions, Scope Johnson & Johnson did not receive third-party limited assurance
17. PM emissions increase was mainly driven by a significant use of
3 emission categories 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, the percentage of for this scope, but will work to improve these assumptions in the
diesel at one of the European sites when old sulphur-rich diesel was
electricity use generated by renewable energy sources, and NOx coming years.
replaced by new sulphur-poor diesel.
and SOx emissions (from combustion sources) were third-party
9. Emissions from Fuel-and Energy-related Activities were calculated
assured byERM Certification and Verification Services Inc. Please
for emissions from transportation and distribution losses from
see this page for Independent GHG Assurance Statement.
purchased electricity. Emissions were calculated by combining
4. In accordance with guidance from World Resources Institute purchased electricity with an appropriate emissions factor and
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, we restated percentage grid loss for each location.
the 2016 - 2017 values to reflect newly released electricity grid
10. Emissions from Upstream Leased Assets were calculated by
emission factors as well as addition or removal of acquisitions
applying the energy intensity from office locations in our Scope
and divestitures. We do not currently use purchases, sales or
1 and 2 footprint to the building area of leased assets less than
transfers of offsets in our GHG accounting. Gases covered in these
50,000 SqFt, which are excluded from Scope 1 and 2 reporting.
calculations include CO, CH, and NO. Hydrofluorocarbons
2 4 2
(HFCs) are disclosed in EHS&S Governance. Perfluorinated 11. Emissions from Waste Generated in Operations were calculated for
chemicals, sulfur hexafluoride and nitrogen trifluoride do not result non-hazardous waste for our global operations using the U.S. EPA’s
from our operations. We do not calculate or report biogenic CO Waste Reduction Model (WARM).
2
emissions in MT COe separately from the gross direct (Scope 1)
2 12. Emissions from Downstream Transportation and Distribution
GHG emissions. Electricity emission factors are obtained from the
were calculated using the U.S. EPA’s SmartWay Program, and are
International Energy Agency’s CO Emissions from Fuel Combustion
2 provided for U.S. shippers only.
Report and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's eGRID
publication for location-based Scope 2 reporting, and from 13. Emissions from the Use of Sold Products and the End-of-Life
supply contracts and residual emission factors, where available, Treatment of Sold Products were calculated using sales volumes
for market-based Scope 2 reporting. Fuel emission factors are for all Johnson & Johnson products combined with lifecycle
obtained from the EPA Climate Leaders publication. Global assessment (LCA) models where sales volumes could be obtained,
Warming Potentials are obtained from the Intergovernmental and where they could not be obtained, sales revenues and average
Panel on Climate Change Fifth Assessment Report. The chosen unit prices were used to estimate volumes. Due to the size of our
consolidation approach for emissions is operational control. product portfolio, LCA’s were not performed for every Johnson &
Johnson product, so products were placed into LCA categories and
5. We did not report Scope 2 emissions using the market-based
a representative product LCA was applied. It should be noted that
method prior to 2017. Starting from 2017, we are reporting Scope 2
due to the assumptions that were made,
emissions using both location-based and market-based methods,
Johnson & Johnson did not receive third-party limited assurance
based on the latest Scope 2 guidance from the World Resources
for these scopes, but will work to improve these assumptions in the
Institute in the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
coming years.
6. Emissions were calculated using company spend in the reporting
year paired with appropriate economic input/output (IO) emission
factors from Carnegie Melon’s 2002 dataset. Where more specific2018 Health for Humanity Report 126
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Waste & Water Management
GRI 303, 306 (103)
Nearly half the global population is already living in potential water- risk sites. We are on track to achieve this goal. We measure water risk
scarce areas at least one month per year. This could increase to some with our proprietary risk assessment model for water stress, which uses
4.8 – 5.7 billion by 2050.38 Access to clean water and sanitation is frameworks from leading water stress models and our own site data. ON TRACK
essential for human health and wellbeing and, as leaders in healthcare,
we are committed to conserving water resources wherever we operate, Johnson & Johnson has been a participant in the CDP Water Program 2020 Goal Progress
and to meeting the water demand for our operations without limiting since its inception in 2010, and in 2018 received CDP Water Security 69%
the availability or quality of water resources to others. A- rating for our water management efforts.
Waste is a sign of resource inefficiency in value chains. High levels of Waste Management
waste place unnecessary burden on planetary resources, contribute to As a global manufacturer, we have an important role to play in reducing
climate change through methane generation, and represent risks for our operational waste and promoting the circular economy approach. of all high-risk sites identified in
biodiversity and human health, especially where poorly managed waste We look for opportunities across the entire value chain to use raw water risk assessment process
facilitates the spread of disease. materials more efficiently; use less hazardous materials; reduce the developed mitigation plans and
have budget allocated to start
amount of waste generated and recycle/reuse waste generated. The
At Johnson & Johnson, we aim to minimize our impacts on the planet implementation in 2019.
waste streams generated directly by our operations include hazardous
through responsible use of water and minimizing waste generation at
and non-hazardous waste from research laboratories, manufacturing
source, while increasing sustainable management of waste.
processes and offices.
View Scorecard
Water Management
We maintain several initiatives at our plants to systematically avoid waste
Our water stewardship strategy is based on the following key priorities: or reduce waste to landfill. For example, our Waste-to-Value program
at Consumer products manufacturing sites sees groups collaborating
• Reducing water demand and increasing water reuse across our to reduce waste in the manufacturing process and partnering with
operations;
external organizations for alternative disposal options. In Belgium,
• Complying with wastewater discharge requirements and our our innovative mobile wastewater treatment unit treats liquid waste
internal wastewater quality standards; streams from chemical production and recovers zinc metals for reuse.
• Prioritizing water management actions using a risk-based In the Netherlands, we separate food waste and use it to create biogas
approach at our sites worldwid; and energy. These initiatives and more reflect our strong commitment to
waste reduction to safeguard health for humanity. Every Johnson &
• Reporting publicly on our performance and progress.
Johnson site must comply with local requirements and develop its own
Johnson & Johnson Environmental Health, Safety & Sustainability waste management strategy based on the following hierarchy of waste
Standard for water and wastewater management requires our facilities management practices:
to comply with the local treatment standards or our proprietary
1. Source reduction
Standard, whichever is more stringent.
2. Recycle/reuse
Our Health for Humanity 2020 water goal commits us to conducting a 3. Chemical/biological treatment
comprehensive water risk assessment at 100% of manufacturing and 4. Incineration/energy recovery
R&D locations, and implementing resource protection plans at the high- 5. Land disposal2018 Health for Humanity Report 127
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Our Performance
Total Operational Waste (MT) GRI 306-1 Hazardous Waste by Disposal Method (MT) Non-Hazardous Waste by Disposal Method (MT)
2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
Hazardous waste 52,672 48,743 52,392 Recycled 24,652 22,450 21,506 Recycled 79,827 75,281 67,412
Non-hazardous waste 143,635 137,732 125,526 Energy recovery 16,374 14,395 14,728 Energy recovery 22,356 20,116 19,759
Total waste generated 196,307 186,475 177,918 Landfilled 3,462 4,325 5,347 Landfilled 13,068 15,356 14,252
Incinerated 2,953 3,584 7,439 Reused 12,796 10,125 4,438
Reused 2,758 988 490 Bio/chemical treatment 10,228 11,079 8,376
Bio/chemical treatment 2,372 2,901 2,664 Incinerated 5,318 3,893 4,731
Other 101 100 217 Other 42 1,883 6,558
Total hazardous waste 52,672 48,743 52,392 Total hazardous waste 143,635 137,732 125,5262018 Health for Humanity Report 128
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Our Performance, cont.
Water Use Summary (million m3)* GRI 303-1, 303-3 Water Use by Source (million m3)* GRI 303-1 Water Discharge by Destination (million m3)* GRI 306-1
2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
Total water use 11.64 11.50 10.80 Municipal 8.21 8.05 8.31 Wastewater treatment plant 5.21 5.36 5.29
Total water recycled Groundwater 3.26 3.28 2.30 Surface water 2.11 2.07 2.33
0.84 0.91 0.88
and reused
Greywater 0.06 0.05 0.06 Irrigation 0.19 0.22 0.16
Total water discharge 7.69 7.81 8.08
Other 0.06 0.04 0.05 Other 0.10 0.10 0.22
Rainwater 0.04 0.04 0.06 Ocean 0.08 0.07 0.09
Surface water 0.02 0.02 0.01 Total water discharge 7.69 7.81 8.08
Total water use 11.64 11.50 10.80
* Where relevant, prior year data have been restated, reflecting improvements in data quality over time.2018 Health for Humanity Report 129
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Product Sustainability
J&J-5 (GRI 103)
Product sustainability is a priority in Johnson & Johnson’s
environmental stewardship strategy. We are committed to the
development of more sustainable products that contribute to a
healthier planet. Our approach is based on science and a lifecycle
accountability for product impacts—from discovery and design,
raw material sourcing and manufacturing to product use and end
of life.
Our commitment to product sustainability includes the following:
• Including sustainability considerations at the design phase to
identify and quantify potential environmental risks;
• Selecting and sourcing more sustainable ingredients;
• Assessing lifecycle environmental impacts of our product
categories to identify opportunities for improvement;
• Applying green chemistry and engineering principles in design
and manufacturing;
• Taking a more sustainable approach to packaging;
• Managing product end-of-life impacts, including the effects
of pharmaceuticals and personal care products in the
environment.
Our global environmental product stewardship team, which is part
of our Environmental Health, Safety & Sustainability organization,
leads our product sustainability focus across our consumer, medical
devices and pharmaceutical businesses, connecting with our R&D,
supply chain and marketing teams to embed sustainable principles
into our product innovation processes. They also partner with our
customers, governments, advocacy and industry groups to share
best practices and shape responsible, science-based product
stewardship policies across the world.2018 Health for Humanity Report 130
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Lifecycle Assessment with
EARTHWARDS
ON TRACK
J&J-6, GRI 103
2020 Goal Progress
New and existing products
EARTHWARDS is our approach for
representing 19.60% of
encouraging the development of more
Johnson & Johnson revenue achieved
sustainable products. Focusing on the
EARTHWARDS recognition.
lifecycle areas with the highest potential
impact, we prioritize improvements for Medical Devices: Pharmaceutical:
the largest possible impact reduction. View Scorecard SURGICEL Original Apalutamide
When a product achieves at least three
Absorbable Hemostat
significant improvements across our Early in 2018, ERLEADA (apalutamide)
seven impact areas, a board of external Of the many EARTHWARDS became the first medicine approved by
experts determines if it warrants recognitions39 in 2018, a standout for the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
Medical Devices was our SURGICEL for the treatment of non-metastatic
EARTHWARDS recognition. Since we
Original. SURGICEL Absorbable castration-resistant prostate cancer,
launched EARTHWARDS in 2009, 139
Hemostat (oxidized regenerated which is defined as prostate cancer
products have been recognized, with 31 cellulose) is used adjunctively in surgical that has not spread but continues to
newly recognized in 2018. Our adherence procedures to assist in the control of grow despite treatment with hormone
to the EARTHWARDS methodology capillary, venous, and small arterial therapy, and in the same year earned
is audited annually by an external hemorrhage when ligation or other EARTHWARDS recognition based
verification company. conventional methods of control are on sustainability improvements
impractical or ineffective.40 SURGICEL demonstrated during the development
To brainstorm ideas and spur innovation Original met four product sustainability process. These include application of
across our global product stewardship Consumer: improvement areas by using Forest "Green Chemistry and Technology"
teams, we organize EARTHWARDS SUNDOWN Todo Dia Stewardship Council Certified® paper principles used in the development of a
Innovation sessions. These are workshops in the packaging, reducing greenhouse new active pharmaceutical ingredient
where we use a suite of tools and SUNDOWN Todo Dia Repellent is the gas emissions by 99% at one point of (API) synthesis route and the reuse
combination sunscreen/bug repellent distribution, limiting waste by 66% in of solvent. A cross-functional team
resources to have our cross-functional
launched in Brazil to simplify consumers’ comparison to a previous product, and assessed these improvements, which
teams think about their products from routines. By combining two formulations innovating new and unique in-house resulted in relevant reductions in the
a sustainability perspective and identify into one product, the project team machinery to create the product.41 use of raw material, water and waste.
areas of improvement. achieved a 48% reduction in weight In addition, ERLEADA was assigned
of materials, and the same amount the EARTHWARDS "innovation"
of reduction in weight of primary impact area, based on the innovative
packaging. Thus, SUNDOWN Todo Dia API synthesis route, which resulted
20
Repellent addresses the consumer need in multiple patents granted, and the
of protection against the elements in an application of process analytical tools,
efficient and more sustainable way. EARTHWARDS innovation workshops leading to a significant reduction in the
held resulting in 3 recognitions use of energy.2018 Health for Humanity Report 131
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Our Performance
EARTHWARDS Products Summary 2018 2017 2016
Number of EARTHWARDS-recognized products, cumulative since 2009 139 118 93
Annual savings from EARTHWARDS-recognized products sold*
Packaging reduced (MT) 14,139 14,932 4,488
Material reduced (MT) 1,170 22,838 66,779
Water saved (liters) 1,768,260 623,684 214,096,470
Waste reduced (MT) 179.9 202.84 689,793
GHG emissions avoided (MT COe) 43,000 70,000 Not Reported
2
* Savings are for products recognized through the end of 2017 and are estimated based on best available methodologies
for each impact reduction area; select products are not included in savings estimation because of lack of detailed data;
we track savings starting the first full calendar year after a product is recognized.2018 Health for Humanity Report 132
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Green Chemistry & Engineering
We believe green chemistry offers significant environmental and
business benefits as it increases resource efficiency and generates
less waste while enabling production cost savings that help our
business perform better. Most medicines and vaccines require
substantial amounts of raw materials to manufacture a single
treatment dose containing active ingredients. Responsible use of
chemicals is therefore a priority for our pharmaceuticals segment.
Janssen is a founding member of the American Chemical Society
(ACS) Green Chemistry Institute® Pharmaceutical Roundtable, and
Reducing Solvent Use
has been participating in the European CHEM21 program since
its inception in 2012. These forums offer an opportunity to share Through the use of green chemistry &
industry best practices and direct academic research to develop engineering techniques our HIV drug
greener manufacturing of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs). INTELENCE (etravirine) achieved an
88% reduction in the solvent use during
We integrate the 12 principles of green chemistry and engineering drug product manufacturing. It’s also
the first product in Janssen's portfolio
adopted by ACS into our product development practices. Typically,
to employ direct solvent reuse, which
we generate the most significant improvements by focusing on:
means solvents are reused in the
manufacturing process instead of being
• Reduction of process mass intensity (PMI)
disposed of as waste.
• Reducing hazardous waste generation
• Using greener solvents2018 Health for Humanity Report 133
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Sustainable Packaging Global Commitment, led by the Ellen
MacArthur Foundation, in collaboration
Packaging plays a critical role in with UN Environment, unites businesses, ON TRACK A selection of our sustainable
maintaining the quality, safety and packaging initiatives and
governments, and other organizations
integrity of our products throughout the 2020 Goal Progress partnerships:
behind a common vision, and works
value chain. It also delivers important
to address plastic waste and pollution
information to patients and consumers Continued recycling-related
at its source. Signatories include
about product composition and guidance companies representing 20% of all plastic partnerships to advance development • We are a founding partner of
for proper use. All our product packaging packaging produced globally, as well of recycling infrastructure in Brazil, the Closed Loop Fund, a U.S.
must comply with local packaging India and Vietnam. social impact fund that invests in
as governments, NGOs, universities,
regulations in all countries where they scaling recycling infrastructure
industry associations and investors.
are manufactured and sold. In addition, and sustainable manufacturing
we continuously explore opportunities View Scorecard technologies to advance circular
Helping consumers recycle economy.
to reduce environmental impacts of our
packaging by focusing on the following: We believe consumers play a vital role
• CARE TO RECYCLE is our branded
in helping to close the cycle of care for
initiative encouraging consumers to
• Reducing material use by decreasing our planet. That’s why we created and recycle their personal care products
packaging size, weight or thickness; maintain a website – caretorecycle.com “ We are thrilled that through educational campaigns.
• Using packaging materials with – featuring tips, videos and how-to’s on Johnson & Johnson Consumer
recycled content; best ways to involve families in recycling Inc. is joining the movement of • We are a founding partner of The
• Designing for recyclability by personal care products and reducing hundreds of brands embracing Healthcare Plastics Recycling
Council, an initiative helping
selecting materials that are already waste. standardized recycling labeling
the healthcare industry support
widely recycled; with How2Recycle. By telling
recyclability of plastics in clinical
As Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc., people exactly how to recycle
• Purchasing responsibly sourced settings.
packaging materials; we also took a step to help consumers their packaging, Johnson &
recycle by joining the growing list of Johnson is empowering parents to • We participate in Plastic Tube
• Influencing recycling rates by raising companies adopting the How2Recycle take proper action while making Recycling Collaborative as one of
consumer and customer awareness.
label, a recycling label that is standardized their lives easier. ” the few consumer companies funding
across all packaging types in North efforts to advance recycling solutions
Committing to the New America. We began rolling out this label Kelly Cramer, Lead of How2Recycle at the for plastic tubes in North America.
Plastics Economy on our JOHNSON'S Baby packaging and Sustainable Packaging Coalition
• As a member of Inclusive Waste
In 2018, Johnson & Johnson Consumer continue to include on it new bottle and
Recycling Consortium, we are
Inc. became a signatory to the New carton packaging, providing instructions promoting scalable “value from
Plastics Economy Global Commitment, that help people properly dispose and waste” programs that help recycling
thereby committing to use more recycled recycle our products. cooperatives in Brazil and India
materials in packaging, reduce reliance to improve their operational
on single-use packages, and ensure that processes develop a stronger
100% of plastic packaging be reusable, social infrastructure, and create a
sustainable market for their materials.
recyclable or compostable via design,
partnerships, and investments by the
year 2025. The New Plastics Economy2018 Health for Humanity Report 134
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Products in the Environment of the Davos Declaration, in 2016 Johnson & Johnson joined the
industry-wide call to curb development of AMR, also endorsing 1.9M
The major source of pharmaceuticals entering the environment is via
the Roadmap on Progress for Combating AMR. We are working
patient excretion following use of medicine. A smaller contribution on multiple fronts to fulfill our AMR Roadmap commitments, medical devices collected and
stems from emissions resulting from the manufacturing process and
including those related to environmental impact from production of
from improper disposal of medications. The major source of personal
antibiotics. For more information, see our AMR page.
1.5M
care products entering the environment is via use of products and
rinsing from the body during bathing activities Personal Care Products in the Environment reprocessed in 2018
Pharmaceuticals in the Environment The Johnson & Johnson statement on the Impact of Pharmaceuticals
and Personal Care Products in the Environment lays out our
We aim to mitigate the effects of medicines in the environment in
approach to assessing and managing our impacts, while partnering
the following ways:
with others to advance responsible science-based policy.
• Conducting environmental risk assessments of all active
In our Consumer business, many of our products are washed off the
pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) used in our products prior
body into the local environment and water supply. To understand
to market approval to determine potential environmental
concentration and risks; how our formulations interact with these environments we use our
patented GLOBAL AQUATIC INGREDIENT ASSESSMENT protocol.
• Monitoring our manufacturing wastewaters for potential
toxicity to aquatic species, controlling our discharges according
We have also voluntarily removed microbeads from our products
to local regulations and maintaining discharge levels below no-
worldwide. Finally, we continue to replace the plastic sticks from our
effect concentrations;
cotton buds with 100% paper sticks—completed in Africa, Europe,
• Employing sourcing practices that help ensure that our Japan and Middle East, and rolling out across other regions.
chemicals and API suppliers comply with our expectations for
environmental and social practices; Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR)
• Advancing the science through research and public-private We comply with applicable EPR regulations in different countries, and
research consortiums to find new solutions to minimize the
invest in many initiatives for better management of our products at
presence of pharmaceuticals in the environment.
end of life. We support voluntary take-back programs, and we work
with our customers to evaluate opportunities to increase the number
Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) and quantity of products that can be recycled and reprocessed.
Pharmaceuticals entering the environment are a contributing
For example, the Johnson & Johnson Medical Devices Companies
factor in the rapid growth of AMR, the resistance of pathogens
work with health facilities to collect medical devices that otherwise
to previously effective drugs. As one of the original signatories
would be immediately bound for landfills or incineration, and
reprocesses those devices so that they can be reused by healthcare
professionals. Also, our Janssen U.S. business has created the
Impact of Pharmaceuticals
Janssen SAFE RETURNS program for patients using our biologics
and Personal Care Products in
products at home, enabling them to collect and return used injection
the Environment Statement devices like prefilled syringes and auto-injectors for disposal.
Download2018 Health for Humanity Report 135
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Appendix2018 Health for Humanity Report 136
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
GRI Index UNGC Index Data Summary
Download Download Download2018 Health for Humanity Report 137
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
About This Report
GRI 102-10, 102-46, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-54, 102-56
Johnson & Johnson’s 2018 Health for Humanity Report • Progress against UN SDG commitments, and associated a significant change in newly published measures, new
details our progress in citizenship and sustainability. Data in data presented in the UN SDG Progress Scorecard. acquisitions or divestitures, data errors, or improvements
this Report cover the period between January 1, 2018, and in data collection methodology over time). Depending on
• Selected year 2018 global greenhouse gas (GHG)
December 31, 2018, unless otherwise indicated. The Report circumstances, each is evaluated using this threshold, and
emissions inventory and electricity use generated from
is also available online at healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com. appropriate disclosures are included in the Report.
renewable energy sources that are also included in our
It includes a Report Summary, which is available in five
2019 CDP Climate Change Report.
languages. Reporting on other matters specific to financial Human Resources Data: These data are based on headcount
performance of the Company and its subsidiaries can be ERM CVS’s Assurance Statements are available on this page. data from Human Resources Information Systems (HRIS).
found in our 2018 Annual Report. HRIS headcount methodology differs from that used for
The financial data and general information about the business the headcount in our Annual Report/Form 10-K. HRIS data
This Report covers Johnson & Johnson’s worldwide in this Report were previously audited for disclosure in our exclude employees on long-term disability, fixed-term
operations, including our subsidiaries across three business 2018 Annual Report. employees, interns/co-ops/students. Data may not include
segments: Consumer, Medical Devices and Pharmaceutical. full population from more recently acquired companies.
Contract manufacturers are excluded from the scope of Acquisitions: Environment, health and safety (EHS) data
this Report, unless otherwise noted. There have been no of recently acquired companies, except for road safety BSR, a global nonprofit organization focused on corporate
significant changes from our previous reporting period data, are included in the Report two years after acquisition, sustainability, partnered with Johnson & Johnson to help
regarding scope, boundaries, or measurement methods unless otherwise noted. This grace period allows the new secure stakeholder feedback on the 2018 Health for Humanity
applied. acquisitions to adjust their EHS management and reporting Report content. Feedback has been integrated into this
systems to Johnson & Johnson standards. Road safety data Report.
The Report has been prepared in accordance with the Global are integrated the first year after acquisition, where available,
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Core option. Our 2016 and two years after acquisition at the latest. The dates We welcome your queries and feedback on this Report.
Priority Topics Assessment process guided the Report’s and details of recent acquisitions can be found in Note 20 Please contact us at WW-Corporate-Governance@its.jnj.
structure. The Report also serves as our annual UNGC (Business Combinations and Divestitures) on page 81 of our com.
Communication on Progress. 2018 Annual Report.
All data in the Report have been subject to some level of Divestitures: Except for injury statistics and violations or
verification. ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM fines, EHS data of divested companies are excluded in the
CVS) conducted independent review and assurance of the reporting year.
following information and data in the Report:
Restatements: We use a 5% change threshold to apply to
• Progress against our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, significant changes in data or information that is restated.
and associated data presented in the 2020 Goals Progress
There are a number of potential reasons that may lead to
Scorecard.
a restatement of either prior periods or baseline data (e.g.,2018 Health for Humanity Report 138
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Independent Assurance Statement
Health for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was
engaged by Johnson & Johnson (J&J) to provide limited Engagement Summary
assurance on cumulative progress over 2016 -2018 against the
Health for Humanity 2020 Goals reported in the Johnson &
Whether cumulative 2016 -2018 progress against the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and related Targets
Johnson 2018 Health for Humanity Report (the Report) and on Scope of our
as reported in the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress Scorecard (the Scorecard) on pages 14 to
healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com as set out below. assurance 17 of the Report and on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com is fairly presented, in all material respects, in
engagement
accordance with the reporting criteria.
Our conclusion Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and Targets as defined in the Scorecard. World Business Council for
Reporting
Sustainable Development (WBCSD)/World Resources Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol for
Based on our assurance activities, as described below, nothing criteria Greenhouse Gas emissions.
has come to our attention to indicate that the cumulative
progress (2016 -2018) against the Health for Humanity 2020
Assurance ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE
Goals and Targets, as reported in the Scorecard on pages 14 to Standard 3000 Revised).
17 of the Report and on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com, is not
fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the
Assurance level Limited assurance.
reporting criteria.
J&J is responsible for preparing the Report, including the Scorecard, and for the collection and
presentation of the assured performance information and data.
Our assurance activities Respective
responsibilities
ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities
We planned and performed our work to obtain all the performed and on exercising our professional judgement.
information and explanations that we believe were necessary
to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions. A multi-
disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists
performed assurance procedures as follows:
• A 3-day visit to J&J Corporate Offices in New
Brunswick, NJ and a number of conference calls to
interview:
▫ relevant staff in order to understand and
evaluate the systems and processes (including
internal review/audit) used for collecting,
consolidating, evaluating and reporting the
information and data used to report progress
against the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and
Targets;2018 Health for Humanity Report 139
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
▫ management representatives responsible for Our observations
the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and Targets
We have provided J&J with a separate management report
and the implementation of the related activities
with our detailed findings and recommendations.
undertaken in 2018;
• A review of the reporting principles, boundaries,
definitions and internal guidelines for each of the
selected Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and Targets;
Jennifer Iansen-Rogers
• A high level review of the greenhouse gas (GHG) and Head of Corporate Assurance
renewable energy data to confirm consistency with the 31 May 2019
findings of our separate GHG and renewable energy
verification engagement including completeness and
consistency over time and the restatements of the
baseline and prior year data;
• A review of samples of underlying documentary
evidence and data to support the reported cumulative
progress for each Health for Humanity 2020 Goal and
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London
Target, including internal and external documents; and
www.ermcvs.com; email: post@ermcvs.com
• A review of the presentation of information relevant to ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that
ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent
the scope of our work on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com
assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes
and in the rest of the Report to ensure consistency with
are designed and implemented to ensure that the work
our findings. we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of
interest. ERM CVS and the ERM staff that have undertaken
this engagement work have provided no consultancy related
services to this client in any respect.
The limitations of our engagement
The reliability of the assured information is subject to
inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for
determining, calculating, or estimating the underlying
information. It is important to understand our assurance
conclusions in this context. In addition, the assured
information should be read in conjunction with the boundary
and consolidation policies under ‘About This Report’ on
page 137 and the disclosures provided under the column
‘Notable’ in the Scorecard.Regarding the formation on
healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com, we provide no assurance
over any information other than as described in our assurance
scope above nor on changes to the content of the assured
information after the date of this assurance statement.2018 Health for Humanity Report 140
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Independent Assurance Statement
UN Sustainable Development Commitment Progress
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was
engaged by Johnson & Johnson (J&J) to provide limited Engagement Summary
assurance on the consolidated 2016 to 2018 progress against
the Company’s 2020 Targets related to its SDG 2030 vision Scope of our Whether the consolidated progress for the three year period ending 31 December 2018 against the 2020
and aspirations as presented in the Johnson & Johnson 2018 assurance targets as presented in the 2018 SDG Progress Scorecard on page 18 to 20 in the 2018 Health for Humanity
Health for Humanity Report and on jnj.com. engagement Report (the Report) and on jnj.com is fairly presented, in all material respects.
Reporting The 2020 targets (under Vision 2030) as described in the Progress Scorecard.
criteria
Our conclusion
Based on our assurance activities, nothing has come to our
Assurance ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE
attention to indicate that the consolidated 2016 to 2018 progress
Standard 3000 Revised).
reported against the 2020 SDG targets in the SDG Progress
Scorecard as presented on page 18 to 20 in the Report is not, in
Assurance level Limited assurance.
all material respects, fairly presented.
Respective
J&J is responsible for preparing the Report and for the collection and presentation of the information
within it. ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance
Our assurance activities responsibilities
activities performed and on exercising our professional judgement.
The reliability of the assured information is subject to
inherent uncertainties, given the nature of the ambitious
J&J aspirations and targets and the dependence on partner
organisations to deliver programs and provide performance
information, as well as the use of estimates, assumptions
and extrapolations to report progress. J&J describes these
uncertainties in the ‘Challenges of reporting and assuring
progress against the SDG goals’ on page 20 of the Report. It
is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this
context. Regarding the information on jnj.com, we provide
no assurance over changes to the content of the web-based
information after the date of this assurance statement.
▪ A review of the 2020 SDG goal definitions, underlying
programs and reporting guidance, where available.
▪ A visit to J&J Corporate Offices in New Brunswick, NJ
and a number of conference calls in order to:
▫ interview J&J management representatives to
understand the Vision 2030 strategy and the2018 Health for Humanity Report 141
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
philosophy behind the goals and 2020 targets;
▫ understand and evaluate the systems and
Jennifer Iansen-Rogers
processes used to manage the performance
Head of Corporate Assurance
commitments, related programs and associated
31 May 2019
partner organisations, and monitor progress
against these;
▫ interview goal owners and business unit
representatives involved in collecting, evaluating
and reporting progress against the 2020 targets.
▪ Interviews with selected J&J Partners responsible for
delivering programs and providing the data used to ERM Certification and Verification Services, London
report the 2016 to 2018 progress towards the targets. www.ermcvs.com; email: post@ermcvs.com
▪ A review of completeness and the consolidation of the ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that
program results for 2016 to 2018 for each target in order ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent
assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes
to reduce the risk of double counting and to understand
are designed and implemented to ensure that the work
assumptions as well as overlaps with some of the J&J
we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of
Health for Humanity 2020 goals for which we undertook interest. ERM CVS and the ERM staff that have undertaken
a separate assurance engagement. this engagement work have provided no consultancy related
services to this client in any respect.
▪ A review ofthe explanatory notes in the ‘Notable’
column in the SDG Progress Scorecard and in the
section on ‘The Challenges of reporting and assuring
progress against the SDG goals’ to ensure consistency
with our findings.2018 Health for Humanity Report 142
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Independent Assurance Statement
GHG Emissions Data
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was
engaged by Johnson and Johnson (J&J) to provide assurance Engagement Summary
in relation to the information set out below and presented on
pages 16, and 124 to 125 in the Johnson & Johnson 2018 Health Whether the corporate 2018 data* for the following selected indicators are fairly presented, in all material
for Humanity Report and on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com. respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria:
• Total absolute Scope 1 GHG emissions in tonnes of COe
2
Our conclusion • Total absolute Scope 2 GHG emissions in tonnes of COe reported using the location based and
2
market based methods
Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to
• Total absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions in tonnes of COe for the following categories:
indicate that the following selected 2018 corporate metrics* are 2
not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the Reporting ▫ Purchased goods and services
Criteria. This conclusion is to be read in the context of the
▫ Capital goods
remainder of this report, in particular the information in the
Scope of our
emphasis of matter and inherent limitations paragraphs below. ▫ Fuel and energy related activities (Transmission and distribution losses (T&D) losses only)
assurance
Scope 1 GHG emissions: 445,054 tCOe engagement ▫ Upstream transportation and distribution
2
Scope 2 GHG (location-based) emissions: 680,326 tCOe ▫ Waste generated in operations (Non-hazardous waste only)
2
Scope 2 GHG (market-based) emissions: 550,480 tCOe ▫ Business Travel
2
Scope 3 GHG emissions for the following categories: ▫ Upstream Leased Assets
▫ Downstream transportation and distribution for US operations (from the EPA SmartWay
program)
• Purchased goods and services 8,826,462 tCOe
2
• Total NOx and SOx from facility combustion sources in tonnes
• Capital goods 271,422 tCOe • Percentage of electricity use generated by renewable energy sources
2
• Fuel and energy related activities 50,821 tCOe Reporting The WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004) and the Johnson & Johnson Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Inventory
(Transmission and distribution 2 criteria Worldwide Energy Management Technical Resources & Compliance (9 January 2019)
losses only)
Assurance ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE
• Upstream transportation and 2,039,872 tCOe Standard 3000 (Revised).
2
distribution
Assurance level Limited assurance.
• Waste generated in operations 2,983 tCOe
2
(Non-hazardous waste only)
J&J is responsible for preparing the data and for its correct presentation in the Report to third parties,
Respective including disclosure of the reporting criteria and boundary.
• Business Travel 775,747 tCO 2e responsibilities ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities
performed and exercising our professional judgement.2018 Health for Humanity Report 143
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
• A review of samples of primary data such as invoices;
• Upstream Leased Assets 39,981 tCOe
2
• A review of the calculations undertaken, including Jennifer Iansen-Rogers
Head of Corporate Assurance
45,850 tCOe conversion factors and emission factors used;
• Downstream transportation and 2 31 May 2019
distribution (from the EPA
SmartWay program) • A review of estimates, extrapolations and
assumptions made in relation to the data for relevant
GHG Scope 3 categories, and
Emphasis of matter
• An analytical review of the consolidated 2018 year
Without affecting our conclusion, which is not modified, end data* for each metric.
we draw attention to the explanatory notes provided by
The limitations of our engagement
J&J relating to the data on page 124 of the Report, in
ERM Certification and Verification Services, London
particular the limitations relating to the 2018 data* for The reliability of the assured information is subject to www.ermcvs.com; email: post@ermcvs.com
the Scope 3 categories 5, 6 and 9 on page 125 of the 2018
inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for
J&J Health for Humanity Report which should be read in ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that
determining, calculating or estimating the underlying ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent
conjunction with the data.
information. It is important to understand our assurance assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes
conclusions in this context. Our work was undertaken are designed and implemented to ensure that the work
Our assurance activities
we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of
remotely. We did not undertake source data verification at
interest. ERM CVS and the ERM staff that have undertaken
Our objective was to assess whether the assured emission any operated facilities. this engagement work have provided no consultancy related
data are reported in accordance with the principles of services to this client in any respect.
Our Observations
completeness, comparability (across the organisation) * For Scope 3 Downstream transportation and distribution we
and accuracy (including calculations, use of appropriate assured the 2017 data.
We have provided Johnson & Johnson with a separate
conversion factors and consolidation). We planned and
management report with our detailed (non-material)
performed our work to obtain all the information and
findings and recommendations. Without affecting the
explanations that we believe were necessary to provide
conclusions presented above, we have the following key
a basis for our assurance conclusions. We applied a 5%
observation:
material error threshold.
• Johnson & Johnson should document both
A team of GHG and assurance specialists performed the
qualitatively and quantitatively their uncertainty
following key activities:
information for each GHG Scope 3 category, and
describe their efforts to record uncertainty in future
• Interviews with relevant staff to understand internal
revisions of the Scope 3 emissions inventory.
reporting processes, including the use of its GHG
Management Plan, internal spreadsheets, and its
various internal data management and reporting
systems;2018 Health for Humanity Report 144
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
References
Better Health For All
1 https://www.hiv.gov/hiv-basics/overview/data-and-trends/global-statistics
2 http://www.genderhealth.org/files/uploads/change/publications/CHANGE_AGYW_data_brief.pdf
3 https://www.hiv.gov/federal-response/pepfar-global-aids/global-hiv-aids-overview
4 http://www.unaids.org/en/resources/presscentre/pressreleaseandstatementarchive/2018/july/miles-to-go
5 https://www.who.int/en/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/tuberculosis
6 https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/tuberculosis
7 https://www.tballiance.org/why-new-tb-drugs/antimicrobial-resistance
8 Bedaquiline was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration based on Phase 2b clinical trial data for use as part of combination therapy in adults (>/= 18 years) with pulmonary MDR-TB, when an effective
treatment regimen cannot otherwise be provided.
9 https://extranet.who.int/sree/Reports?op=Replet&name=/WHO_HQ_Reports/G2/PROD/EXT/TBCountryProfile&ISO2=VN&outtype=pdf
10 https://www.who.int/neglected_diseases/diseases/en/
11 https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/soil-transmitted-helminth-infections
12 https://www.who.int/emergencies/ten-threats-to-global-health-in-2019
13 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5398308/
14 SPRAVATO [Prescribing Information]. Titusville, N.J., Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.2 Duman RS. F1000Research. 2018; 7:F1000.
15 Dubovsky SL. Psychother and Psychosom. 2018; 87:129-139.
16 Rush AJ et al. Am J Psychiatry. 2006;163(11):1905-1917.
17 https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/influenza-(seasonal)
18 https://amr-review.org/sites/default/files/AMR%20Review%20Paper%20-%20Tackling%20a%20crisis%20for%20the%20health%20and%20wealth%20of%20nations_1.pdf
19 http://reports.weforum.org/global-risks-2018/anti-microbial-resistance/?doing_wp_cron=1555504260.8589730262756347656250
20 https://www.who.int/news-room/detail/13-12-2017-world-bank-and-who-half-the-world-lacks-access-to-essential-health-services-100-million-still-pushed-into-extreme-poverty-because-of-health-expenses
21 Includes employees classified under job functions of R&D and Engineering.
22 American Cancer Society. “Cancer Facts & Figures 2018.” 2018.
https://www.cancer.org/content/dam/cancer-org/research/cancer-facts-and-statistics/annual-cancer-facts-and-figures/2018/cancer-facts-and-figures-2018.pdf
23 World Health Organization (WHO), "Hepatitis B." July 2018. http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs204/en/.
24 Yuen, Man-Fung, Keven Liu, Bruce D. Given, Thomas Schluep, James Hamilton, Ching-Lung Lai, Stephen A. Locarnini, Kathy Jackson, Johnson Y.N. Lau, Carlo Ferrari, and Robert G. Gish. “RNA Interference Therapy
with ARC-520 Injection Results in Long Term Off-therapy Antigen Reductions in Treatment Naïve, HBeAg Positive and Negative Patients with Chronic HBV. Poster #FRI-362.” EASL 2018, April 11-15, 2018. Paris, France.
http://ir.arrowheadpharma.com/static-files/5b205068-35a4-41c9-942e-cb5ed100c2b2
25 American College of Surgeons and Surgical Infection Society: Surgical Site Infection Guidelines, 2016 Update Ban, Kristen A. et al. Journal of the American College of Surgeons, Volume 224, Issue 1, 59-74.
26 The programs listed in this section are funded through a variety of entities, including the Johnson & Johnson Foundation, the Johnson & Johnson Corporate Citizenship Trust, Johnson & Johnson corporate functions
and the operating companies across our three business segments.
27 https://www.unicef.org/media/media_71508.html
28 The programs listed in this section are funded through a variety of entities, including the Johnson & Johnson Foundation, Global Public Health and the operating companies across our three business segments.
29 Our partnership with Save the Children reflects strategic impact investments from our Johnson & Johnson Foundation and Johnson & Johnson Corporate Citizenship Trust, as well as marketing programs such as
Wisdom by Kids supported by Corporate funding and engagements with our brands (e.g., JOHNSON'S Baby) on educational programs.
30 Johnson & Johnson Foundation, Johnson & Johnson Corporate Citizenship Trust and the Johnson & Johnson Patient Assistance Foundation are independent, non-profit organizations.2018 Health for Humanity Report 145
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
Our People
31 Millennial Careers: 2020 Vision, Manpower Group, 2016.
32 Represents the proportion of employees in Manager and above job categories who in their career progression movement (including upward promotion, downward demotion, or lateral transfer) crossed function,
country or business segment lines.
Responsible Business Practices
33 Based on average cumulative volume of ingredients in washes, lotions, shampoos and conditioners using ISO/DIS 16128 (water included).
34 Our high-risk country classification is based on a list of countries that we establish and update regularly using various external sources of information such as the U.S. Department of State Travel Warnings, the World
Bank’s country ranking on Worldwide Governance Indicators, the United Nations Human Development Index, and Transparency International’s Corrupt Perception Index.
35 We define a critical finding as evidence of very high risk to human life or potential catastrophic impact to facility, community or environment. We expect suppliers and potential suppliers to address critical findings
immediately.
36 A technical visit is a follow-up visit to the initial audit.
Environmental Health
37 http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_Global_Risks_Report_2019.pdf
38 According to a report by Burek et al. quoted in the United Nations Water Fact Sheet: http://www.unwater.org/water-facts/scarcity/
39 Each EARTHWARDS recognition is as compared to the previous version of the product.
40 SURGICEL Absorbable Hemostat Instructions for Use.
41 SURGICEL EARTHWARDS, S. Ramcharitar, C. Gruel, November 2018.2018 Health for Humanity Report 146
Overview Our Approach Better Health for All Our People Responsible Business Practices Environmental Health Appendix References
2018 Health for Humanity Report
Progress in Citizenship & Sustainability
Contact us
WW-Corporate-Governance@its.jnj.com
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza
New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933
healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com
jnj.com
Front Cover: Every day 1,000 adolescent girls and young women are infected with HIV in sub-Saharan Africa, having a disproportionate impact on their
lives and preventing them from fulfilling their potential. That’s why we launched DREAMS Thina Abantu Abasha (Zulu for "We the Youth"), a youth-led and
implemented peer-to-peer program, with PEPFAR and UNFPA in some of the worst HIV hotspots to reduce HIV infections among girls 15 – 24 years old. This
is part of our longstanding Company-wide commitment to make HIV history. Learn more at www.jnj.com/hiv. Photo by Jonathan Burton.