ANNUAL REPORT 2010Despite an extraordinarily challenging year,
our people introduced new products, advanced
our pipelines and expanded businesses
in emerging markets.
We are on our way to restoring
McNeil Consumer Healthcare to the high levels
of quality and compliance that people expect of all
Johnson & Johnson companies and that we
expect of ourselves.
Meanwhile, we are bringing forward innovations that
better health care for people around the world.
We remain steeped in our tradition of caring for others,
driven by values deeply rooted in Our Credo.
ON THE COVER Megan Johnson enjoys the simple everyday joys of motherhood. She receives important health care information
through text4baby, an innovative mobile service for expectant and new mothers made possible by the National Healthy Mothers,
Healthy Babies Coalition, founding sponsor Johnson & Johnson and multiple other partners. Text4baby symbolizes our commitment
to caring for the health and well-being of mothers and babies, the Johnson & Johnson legacy for 125 years. Learn more on page 24.CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
To Our
Shareholders
2010 will be remembered as a year in which our company was WilliaM c. WeldoN
severely tested on numerous fronts. Yet our people continued Chairman, Board of Directors, and Chief Executive Officer
the hallmark work of Johnson & Johnson: finding new ways
to care for the health and well-being of people around the world. while maintaining investments for future revenue and earnings
There were challenges we fully expected, particularly those growth. With these investments, we are developing a number
related to the continuing global economic downturn and loss of of exciting new products that have the potential to address
patent exclusivity on some of our major pharmaceutical products. significant unmet health care needs.
And there was a challenge we did not expect: the painful and Worldwide sales for 2010 were $61.6 billion, a decrease of
disappointing experience of the McNeil Consumer Healthcare 1.3 percent operationally (reflecting the challenges noted as well
product recalls. as the 53rd accounting week included in the 2009 results).
Despite the trying moments of 2010, our people introduced Adjusted earnings were $13.3 billion1, an increase of 2.9 percent
new products, advanced our pipelines and expanded businesses despite a sales decline. Adjusted earnings per share increased
in emerging markets. We remain steeped in our tradition of caring 2.8 percent1.
for others, driven by values deeply rooted in Our Credo. While we In a tough global economy, we maintained our financial
face near-term business pressures, we enter 2011 on a strong discipline. We generated free cash flow of approximately
foundation to achieve long-term sustainable growth. $14 billion2 and held our AAA credit rating. We also executed a
$1.1 billion debt offering at the lowest interest rate for long-term
2010 Results corporate debt in history.
We continued to deliver earnings growth in 2010, with many We had a one-year decline in total shareholder return of
of our businesses performing well in light of the macroeconomic about half a percent. Over longer time frames, we continue to
conditions. Several factors impacted the health care industry in compare favorably to most stock indices, beating all major sector
general and Johnson & Johnson. Medical devices and consumer performance benchmarks on a three-year and 10-year basis.
businesses felt the effects of a continued economic slowdown. The one-year decline in shareholder return was disappointing,
In health care, we anticipate continuing to feel those effects in but reflects both the uncertainty around health care reform that
2011. There were costs associated with U.S. health care reform, hampered many in our sector and the impact of our consumer
which was implemented early in the year. In addition, we faced product recalls.
lost sales and remediation costs resulting from our consumer
over-the-counter product recalls, as well as generic competition McNeil coNsuMeR HealtHc aRe
in our pharmaceuticals business. Our people dedicate themselves to providing the most trusted
Despite these headwinds, we continued to grow earnings brands and high-quality products to help others around the world.
NET SALES DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE DIVIDENDS PAID PER SHARE
(in billions of dollars) (in dollars) $4.78 (in dollars) $2.110
$61.1 $63.7 $61.9 $61.6 $4.57 $4.40 $1.930
$1.795
$53.3 $3.73 $3.63 $1.620
$1.455
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER 1Thus, our experience with the McNeil Consumer Healthcare recalls Our 2010 accomplishments reflect the strength of our model and
has been difficult for all of us. Most important, we disappointed growth enablers.
our customers. Trust and confidence in Johnson & Johnson and
• New Products: We introduced innovative products across
our products are fundamental to everything we do. Even though
our businesses and saw strong growth in recently introduced
millions of customers remain supportive of our work to assure
products. These include consumer products that address
quality and restore our consumer brands to the market, that trust
emerging health care needs, such as JOHNSON’S® NATURAL®
and confidence have been truly tested.
baby products and LISTERINE® ZERO™ mouthwash. In our
During this past year, I visited many manufacturing locations
Medical Devices and Diagnostics (MD&D) segment, we
around the world. I can assure you that our people are dedicated to
launched more than 50 new products. For example, a new
giving our customers the highest-quality products, with no
ENSEAL® tissue-sealing device for large vessel sealing in open
compromises whatsoever. It is our responsibility to learn from
surgery was introduced in the U.S., strengthening our energy
what happened, address problems at their root causes and ensure
surgical instrument portfolio. In Pharmaceuticals, we saw
that only the highest-quality products reach our customers.
growth of key innovations approved in 2009—NUCYNTA®*
That hard work—and the subsequent results—will help earn
(tapentadol) for pain, STELARA® (ustekinumab) and
back trust and respect.
SIMPONI® (golimumab) in immunology, and INVEGA®
We are on our way to restoring McNeil Consumer Healthcare
SUSTENNA® (paliperidone palmitate) for schizophrenia.
to the high levels of quality and compliance that people expect of
With a consistent flow of new products based on
all Johnson & Johnson companies and that we expect of ourselves.
scientific innovation, approximately a quarter of
As part of this commitment, we accelerated the imple-
Johnson & Johnson sales last year came from new products
mentation of organizational changes to our Supply Chain,
introduced in the past five years, and approximately 70 percent
Manufacturing and Quality and Compliance areas, which began
of our sales were from products with No. 1 or No. 2 global
early in 2010. We also undertook a thorough review of how we
market share positions.
operated our manufacturing plants and examined in detail the
historical production records of McNeil Consumer Healthcare • Leading Product Pipelines: Across our businesses,
products sold in the U.S. and produced in McNeil’s internal we invested nearly $7 billion in research and development to
manufacturing network. advance our newest technologies and pipeline compounds.
We have completed this internal review, and we will Our Pharmaceuticals pipeline is recognized as among the
continue to conduct reviews at external sites that manufacture best in the industry.
McNeil products. If these reviews reveal any further issues, Rivaroxaban**, our anti-coagulant, has been filed in
we will not hesitate to take whatever steps are needed, including the U.S. for the prevention of stroke in patients with atrial
further market action, to ensure that our products meet fibrilation, a condition that can lead to major physical and
world-class quality standards. These and other steps we have behaviorial impairments, or death. The Company also
taken under the Comprehensive Action Plan submitted to responded to the FDA Complete Response Letter for its review
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) constitute an of the rivaroxaban filing for preventing deep vein thrombosis
uncompromising effort to ensure high quality at McNeil. and pulmonary embolism following total knee and hip
These actions will help us assure that moving forward, our replacement surgery. Abiraterone acetate, an investigational
products in the marketplace live up to the standards and compound for the treatment of metastatic advanced prostate
expectations that consumers have for all products coming cancer from last year’s acquisition of Cougar Biotechnology,
from Johnson & Johnson. was granted priority review in the U.S. and accepted
At the same time, we are focused on returning the recalled for accelerated assessment in Europe. Telaprevir,*** for
products to the marketplace in 2011. We began shipping a small hepatitis C, an undertreated global infectious disease, has
amount of product in the fourth quarter of 2010, and alternate also been accepted for accelerated assessment in Europe.
supply of the remaining key products will ramp up in the latter Additionally, we filed TMC278 for HIV in both the U.S.
half of 2011. At the appropriate time, we will invest in market and Europe.
support for our over-the-counter brands. We also will be In MD&D, the Fibrin Pad, a revolutionary hemostasis
introducing product and packaging innovations for a number product that combines two biomaterials and two biologics to
of products, especially those for young children. stop bleeding during surgical procedures, was filed for regula-
tory approval with the FDA.
2010 HigHligHts
Even as we faced challenges throughout 2010, we remained • Targeted Acquisitions: We believe in an organic and
unwavering in who we are as a company. The source of our collaborative approach to innovation. In addition to our own
enduring strength is a fundamental commitment to Our Credo internal research and development programs, we create
and an operating model that has served us well for decades. partnerships through licensing and make targeted acquisitions
Our operating model includes a commitment to being to either add a capability or gain an asset from which we
broadly based in human health care; a decentralized management can drive more value. We acquired Micrus Endovascular, a
approach that keeps our people close to customers; managing for
the long term; and a focus on people and values. We focus on four
* NUCYNTA® is licensed from Grünenthal GmBH.
growth enablers—products, pipelines, global presence and
** Rivaroxaban is co-developed with Bayer HealthCare.
people—that support the model and enable accelerated growth. *** Telaprevir is developed in collaboration with Vertex Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
2 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTglobal developer and manufacturer of minimally invasive
devices for hemorrhagic and ischemic stroke. In February The source of our enduring strength
2011, Johnson & Johnson completed its tender offer for
is a fundamental commitment to
Crucell N.V., which develops vaccines against infectious
diseases. In addition to strategic acquisitions, we collaborate Our Credo
and partner with other companies and academic institutions
pursuing exciting discoveries that we can enhance with our
and an operating model that has
global development capabilities.
served us well for decades.
• Growth in Emerging Markets: We continued our
strong progress in emerging markets, with sales growing
14 percent operationally in Brazil, Russia, India and China.
We continue maximizing research and development centers
in these regions to develop medical devices, pharmaceuticals
and consumer products based on insights in local markets. BRoadly Based iN
We have a vast and growing network of medical and surgical HuMaN HealtH
institutes around the world to train and educate the doctors
and nurses who use our products. And with rapid economic
growth in emerging markets, we’re expanding our product
MaNaged foR deceNtRalized
offerings to meet the unique needs of the mass market
tHe loNg teRM aPPRoacH
comprising billions of people who are now gaining a greater
degree of health care coverage.
The opportunity here may reflect more affordable PeoPle aNd
products or products focused on diseases that are more
Values
common in emerging markets than in developed markets.
Offerings include market-appropriate sutures, consumer
products, staplers, blood glucose meters, knee replacements
and local or regional pharmaceuticals. The objective is
superior outcomes for patients who may not have had access
to such technologies or products.
experienced an operational sales decline of 1 percent. Excluding
• Talented People: As we look toward the future, a top
the impact of generic competition and health care reform,
priority for Johnson & Johnson is continued development of a
pharmaceutical sales would have increased by nearly 4 percent
leadership team that is well-positioned for sustainable growth.
operationally.
At the end of 2010, we announced organizational changes
We continued to make significant investments to expand
designed to further long-term succession plans and assure that
our presence in emerging markets which grew at double-
we have talented and experienced leaders at all levels of the
digit rates, as well as in new therapeutic areas like vaccines
organization. Joining me as part of an expanded Office of the
and Alzheimer’s disease. We are the leader in the U.S.
Chairman are Alex Gorsky, previously Worldwide Chairman,
immunology market, with three significant brands. Our
Medical Devices & Diagnostics, and Sheri McCoy, previously
flagship product REMICADE® (infliximab), for the treatment
Worldwide Chairman, Pharmaceuticals.
of a number of immune-mediated inflammatory diseases,
Other additions to our senior leadership team are a
grew 7 percent operationally. Newer products STELARA®
direct reflection of the strength, depth and diversity of our
(ustekinumab) and SIMPONI® (golimumab) continued
talent pipeline. We are committed to giving our people
increasing market share and generated more than a combined
opportunities to work across our various business groups
$600 million in sales for the year. REMICADE®, STELARA® and
and geographies. And we continue to invest more than ever in
SIMPONI® contributed to 17 percent operational growth for the
our people. Our objective is simple: to develop employees
Immunology franchise.
with the skills, judgment and integrity to carry on the
In long-acting antipsychotics, we grew 14 percent
Johnson & Johnson legacy.
operationally. RISPERDAL® CONSTA® (risperidone) Long-
We have the people, products, pipelines and footprints in Acting Injection, an atypical antipsychotic administered
global markets to sustain long-term growth. And with a every two weeks for the treatment of schizophrenia or the
continuous focus on addressing unmet needs, we invest in maintenance of bipolar 1 disorder, grew 6 percent operationally.
technologies with the potential to significantly improve INVEGA® SUSTENNA® (paliperidone palmitate), for the
health care. treatment of schizophrenia, continued to increase U.S. market
share, contributing to our expanding market leadership.
PHaRMaceuticals In the HIV area, PREZISTA® (darunavir) and INTELENCE®
Our Pharmaceuticals segment focuses on meeting important (etravirine) grew sales operationally by 46 percent and
patient needs. With sales of $22.4 billion, we saw rapid growth 41 percent, respectively, achieving together more than $1 billion
of recently launched products. For the year, the segment in sales for the first time while providing access to markets with
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER 3the most significant need.
Medical devices and diagnostics
In Oncology, Velcade* (bortezomib), for multiple myeloma,
segment sales
grew 16 percent operationally while eclipsing $1 billion in sales
sales by Major franchise (in billions of dollars)
outside the U.S. for the first time.
2010 Sales: $24.6 billion
ENDE OT -H SUIC RO GN E R Y® In addition, we continue to pursue line extensions.
Sales Change $4.8
We submitted applications for several major line extensions,
Total: 4.4% 5.9%
OperationMal*: 3.4% among them REMICADE® and SIMPONI®, which continue
D to build the strength of our Immunology franchise.
&
D ETHICON® ORTHO-CLINICAL Over the next three years, we expect to file compounds to
$4.5 DIAGNOSTICS®
9.2% $2.0 address critical medical needs, including Alzheimer’s disease and
4.6%
diabetes, conditions growing in prevalence as the population
ages. With five compounds currently in registration and several
more planned in the coming years, our portfolio ranks among the
DIABETES VISION leaders in the industry. Our pipeline meets unmet needs and
CARE CARE
$2.5 $2.7 features many true innovations designed to change the treatment
1.2% 6.9%
paradigm for patients.
$DE 5PU .Y 6® $CO 2RD .5IS® M The ed i Mca edl
i
d ce aV
l
Dic ee vs
i
ca eN sd
a
d ni da DgN iao gs nt oi sc ts
ics (MD&D) franchises
4.0% (4.7%)
comprise the world’s largest medical technology business, with
sales of $24.6 billion, an increase of approximately 3 percent
Pharmaceutical segment sales
operationally. Despite the economic slowdown, which led to a
sales by Major Product (in billions of dollars) decline in surgical procedures and pricing pressures across the
2010 Sales: $22.4 billion
REMICADE® business, we achieved growth in six of our seven franchises, as
$4.6
Sales Change
7.1% well as in all regions.
T Oo pt ea rl: a ( t0 io. n6 a% l*) : (1.0%) R CI $S OP N 1E SRm .TD 5AA ®rL a® Our MD&D businesses advanced a very strong pipeline,
h completed and integrated several acquisitions, and aggressively
PROCRIT®/ 5.3% P
$EP 1RE .X 9® TOPAMAX® expanded into emerging markets. The segment maintained or
$0.5
(13.9%) (53.3%) improved market share in the majority of its largest product
LEVAQUIN®/ VELCADE® platforms, despite intense competition.
FLOXIN® $1.1
$1.4 For example, the Ethicon franchise grew 8 percent
15.8%
(12.5%) operationally, based on its strong suite of surgical products, as
CONCERTA® well as recent acquisitions in new markets like aesthetics and ear,
$1.3
nose and throat surgery. The Ethicon Endo-Surgery franchise
(0.5%)
grew 5 percent operationally. Double-digit growth in its advanced
ACIPHEX®/
PARIET® sterilization products and energy products were major
$1.0
(8.2%) OTHER contributors. Our Vision Care franchise had operational sales
$9.1
6.6% growth of 4 percent based on its core ACUVUE® Brand Contact
Lens and the continued launch of 1-DAY ACUVUE® TruEye™
Contact Lenses into new markets. The Ortho Clinical Diagnostics
franchise grew 4 percent operationally with the continued growth
consumer segment sales
of the VITROS® 3600 and 5600 analyzers.
sales by Major franchise (in billions of dollars) PHARMAO CT EC U TICALS
2010 Sales: $14.6 billion & NU $TR 4IT .IO 6NALS The DePuy franchise increased operational sales by 3 percent
Sales Change (19.2%) based on the strength of its orthopaedic reconstruction, sports
Total: (7.7%) medicine and neurological businesses. Diabetes Care increased
OperatiConal*: (8.9%) operational sales by 2 percent with the introduction of a number
o
n W HO EM ALE TN H’S of new OneTouch® products around the world. Meanwhile,
s $1.8
u (2.7%) sales in the Cordis franchise continued to decline due to competi-
m
tion in drug-eluting stents. This was partially offset by the strong
e
r growth of electrophysiology products in the Biosense Webster
ORAL CARE WOUND business, which grew nearly 20 percent operationally for the year.
$1.5 CARE/
(2.7%) $OT 1H .E 0R
(10.4%) coNsuMeR
Consumer sales were $14.6 billion, a decline of approximately
9 percent operationally. Sales were impacted by McNeil recalls, as
well as the general economic slowdown and greater consumer
BABY CARE
$2.2 SKIN CARE sensitivity to spending, reflected in a broad move towards store
4.4% $3.5
(0.4%)
* Velcade is a trademark of Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
* Operational excludes the impact of currency
4 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTbrands and smaller sizes in certain markets. unwavering with a five-year commitment to the United
Despite the headwinds, we saw positive Nations’ renewed efforts to advance the
commitment to the
momentum in emerging markets, where Millennium Development Goals of reducing
sales grew by double digits. principles embodied mortality in women and children by 2015.
Operational sales decreased in most of Our commitment aims to help as many as
in our credo and an
our consumer franchises. However, we saw 120 million women each year for the next
growth in many product lines, including appreciation for the five years, reaching 50 countries. It includes
DABAO® skin care products, NICORETTE®, initiatives such as mobile health
elements of our
JOHNSON’S®, AVEENO® and LE PETIT information for expectant mothers, safe
MARSEILLAIS®, where our science-based operating model birth programs and 200 million doses
innovations and expansion into emerging annually of mebendazole, a treatment for
are as strong today
markets continued to drive strong results. intestinal worms in children.
We also introduced new product as at any time in In addition to this commitment, we
innovations and line extensions to iconic support nearly 650 other philanthropic
our history.
brands, such as JOHNSON’S® NATURAL®, programs in more than 50 countries. While
LISTERINE® ZERO™, PRECISE™ from the working on saving and improving the lives
makers of TYLENOL®, ZYRTEC® Liquid of women and children, we also focus on
Gels and CYTOMIMIC™ technology in building the skills of people who serve
several new skin care products. community health needs, as well as
Our Consumer business continues to distinguish itself preventing diseases and reducing stigma and disability in
with science-based innovations, proprietary technologies and underserved communities.
recommendations by health care professionals. More than a
billion people around the world count on our consumer products ouR c oMMitMeNt to y ou
for themselves and their families. I commit to you, our shareholders, that as we enter 2011,
Johnson & Johnson is well-positioned for future growth. We will
ouR eNduRiNg s tReNgtH restore quality and confidence in our products. We will continue
With the challenges of 2010, and within the context of our to introduce differentiated new products that advance important
125th anniversary in 2011, we are reminded more than ever of unmet needs in human health and well-being. We will continue
our heritage. Unwavering commitment to the principles embodied building and advancing pipelines that fuel our long-term success.
in Our Credo and an appreciation for the elements of our And we’ll continue expanding into new health care categories and
operating model are as strong today as at any time in our history. emerging markets that offer unprecedented opportunities to
We are not perfect; we will make mistakes. And when we touch more people around the world with better care.
do, we hold ourselves accountable to correct them. That Most important, we will never lose sight of who we are.
accountability is inherent in Our Credo. Its tenets demand a Our Credo, our operating model and our people are enduring
special level of responsibility … first to patients and customers, sources of success. We are deeply committed to the people who
then to our employees, our communities and our shareholders. use our products, to our employees, to the communities in which
Our Credo remains our North Star. we live and work, and to you, our loyal shareholders.
Another enduring strength is the character of the people of
Johnson & Johnson. Despite diverse businesses, we are united by
an extraordinary bond—a commitment to caring for one person
at a time and touching the world—originating from Our Credo
values. It is a quiet sense of purpose focused around the lives we William C. Weldon
affect, the families and children we touch, and the professionals Chairman, Board of Directors, and Chief Executive Officer
who support their health.
Our products, our pipeline and our global presence make us March 16, 2011
strong as a company. Our people and Our Credo set us apart.
ouR c oMMitMeNt to WoMeN aNd cHildReN
As our businesses have diversified and expanded globally,
Johnson & Johnson remains true to the foundation of our
company: caring for the health and well-being of mothers and
children. We have a heritage unlike any other company. Because
we are especially privileged to touch mothers at the most intimate
moments with their newborn child, we have a bond forged on
deep emotional trust—one that builds a special connection with
people. It also magnifies our commitment to help ensure that
mothers and children, wherever they may live, enjoy good
1 Excludes special items.
health care.
2 F ree cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital spending.
Consistent with our legacy, Johnson & Johnson responded
See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, page 76.
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER 5PHarmaceutIcals
Hope for Patients With
Infectious Diseases
A
s a researcher working on hepatitis C clinical
trials around the world, Brian Woodfall, M.D.,
is only too aware of the challenges patients
face. Many endure yearlong drug treatments
only to have to undergo a liver transplant or even die from
complications related to the blood-borne virus.
“Many people don’t tolerate the review by the U.S. Food and Drug Admin-
current drugs very well and feel sick,” istration and the European Medicines
says Woodfall, Vice President of Global Agency. TMC435 is being evaluated globally
Clinical Development for Tibotec in several large Phase III trials.
Pharmaceuticals. “And at the end of the “These drugs will potentially decrease
treatment, so many people aren’t cured.” patients’ time away from work and family,
The current standard treatment may be and get them back to improved health
successful in less than 50 percent of faster,” Woodfall says. “Our research is
patients who have the most prevalent form driven by an intense commitment to save
of hepatitis C, and there are no alternative lives and improve patients’ health on
medicines for those who don’t respond. a day-to-day basis.”
About 170 million people worldwide
are infected with hepatitis C, with R&D EXPANDS IN INFECTIOUS DISEASES
3 to 4 million new cases each year, The hepatitis C medicines are among the
according to the World Health treatments that the Infectious Diseases and
Organization. It is a common cause of Vaccines Therapeutic Area is developing to
cirrhosis of the liver, liver cancer and address high unmet medical needs globally.
liver transplants worldwide. Already a world leader in HIV medicines,
the franchise is developing new treatments
INNOVATIVE TREATMENTS AIM TO for tuberculosis (TB) and HIV, and has part- development in infectious diseases,” he
CURE MORE PATIENTS
nered with Crucell N.V. to develop an adds, “we will have a greater impact on
To meet this critical need, Tibotec
influenza treatment and vaccine. In February improving human health globally with
Pharmaceuticals is developing two new
2011, Johnson & Johnson completed its our expansion into prevention as we build
treatments for hepatitis C. The drugs,
tender offer for Crucell, which develops our vaccines pipeline, particularly in
telaprevir and TMC435*, have the
vaccines against infectious diseases world- emerging markets.”
potential to cure significantly more people
wide. As a result, Crucell will now operate
than currently available therapies and to
as the center for vaccines within the BREAKTHROUGH TREATMENTS
halve patients’ treatment time, from 12
Pharmaceuticals group. One of the world’s oldest and most deadly
months to six. Telaprevir was named one of
“We are developing more effective infectious diseases, tuberculosis kills
the top 10 medical innovations for2 011 by
treatments for infectious diseases to 1.8 million people a year. Company
the Cleveland Clinic. It is now undergoing
improve the lives of millions of people researchers’ work in TB has been ground-
around the world,” says Paul Stoffels, M.D., breaking, and for the first time in more
* Telaprevir is developed in collaboration
Worldwide Chairman, Pharmaceuticals. than 40 years, a new class of drugs
with Vertex Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; TMC435 is
developed in collaboration with Medivir AB. “In addition to our growing research and potentially effective against TB has been
6 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTdiscovered. Now in clinical trials, the Dr. Stoffels. “We hope to create a COMMITTED TO RESEARCH With a
treatment, TMC207, will initially target life-saving drug with TMC278.” passion for scientific research, Ramon
the increasing number of patients who The two new hepatitis C medicines, Polo (left) and Brian Woodfall are working
have failed tuberculosis therapies due to which are protease inhibitors, are also to develop telaprevir for hepatitis C.
drug resistance. Tibotec has partnered breakthrough treatments that may offer Like others at Tibotec in Belgium, they’re
with the nonprofit Global Alliance for new hope to patients who have failed prior driven by the knowledge that their efforts
Tuberculosis Drug Development, which drug therapies. As well, they are intended have the potential to not only improve
will conduct studies of TMC207 in for patients being treated for hepatitis C health but help people survive.
patients undergoing TB treatment for for the first time. The drugs would be
the first time. administered in combination with the of patients around the world,”
In addition, a new HIV drug, TMC278 existing standard treatment. Dr. Stoffels says. “That is the highest thing
(rilpivirine), is undergoing regulatory “Our goal is to use our science and you can do in a human lifetime. This
review and may add to the already strong understanding of infectious diseases to passion for making a difference in the lives
HIV portfolio. “It is generally safe and help people survive, improve their health of patients around the world is what
well-tolerated in clinical trials,” says and make a significant difference in the lives drives us.”
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORT 7reducing
the risk
of Heart
Disease
Rivaroxaban* is a promising
experimental medicine that
may soon become a new
alternative to warfarin for
reducing the risk of
unwanted blood clots.
Johnson & Johnson
Pharmaceutical Research &
Development, LLC (J&JPRD)
recently submitted a New
Drug Application to the U.S.
Food & Drug Administration
(FDA) seeking approval to use
rivaroxaban to prevent strokes
in patients with the most
common heart rhythm
disorder—atrial fibrillation.
Results from the ROCKET AF
trial, comparing rivaroxaban
to warfarin, a widely used but
challenging-to-manage drug,
advancing cancer care FIGHTING CANCER Clinical trial were presented at the
participant Richard Pflaum and American Heart Association
wife Kathy hope he’ll benefit annual meeting.
from advances in treating cancer. The study’s outcome
suggests that “rivaroxaban has
“Living with cancer, you increase from 2002. disrupt the surrounding tumor the potential to protect the 2.3
need a positive attitude,” says Abiraterone acetate has not microenvironment that helps million Americans with atrial
64-year-old Richard Pflaum received marketing authoriza- cancer thrive and using fibrillation from stroke and
of Bath, England. “What you tion and is for investigational biomarkers to improve patient its devastating complica-
need is to be able to take some use only. Based on positive outcomes. tions,” according to Peter M.
sort of action.” So Richard results from a completed Abiraterone acetate acts by DiBattiste, M.D., Vice President
is participating in an ongoing Phase III study, marketing blocking the synthesis of of Cardiovascular Development,
clinical study with abiraterone applications were filed with hormones produced by the J&JPRD. ROCKET AF is the
acetate, a promising regulatory authorities in the body, including those produced seventh successful Phase III
investigational medicine U.S. and Europe in December by prostate cancer tissue to fuel trial in the ongoing rivarox-
for the treatment of metastatic 2010, with additional filings its growth, according to William aban development program.
advanced prostate cancer. planned for 2011. Hait, M.D., Ph.D., Global In 2011, J&JPRD also
Globally, prostate cancer is With abiraterone acetate, the Therapeutic Area Head, expects to learn from the FDA
the second most frequently oncology franchise is devel- Oncology. “We believe that whether rivaroxaban will be
diagnosed cancer in men and oping strategies it hopes will abiraterone acetate is an impor- approved for the prevention of
the fifth most common cancer one day help prevent or cure tant medical advance, and we blood clots following total
overall. More than 900,000 certain types of prostate and look forward to further devel- knee or total hip replacement
new cases of prostate cancer other cancers. Researchers are oping additional therapies for surgeries.
were diagnosed in 2008, and working hand-in-hand with oncology patients that will help
more than 258,000 men died today’s top oncology experts, save the lives of people around *Rivaroxaban is co-developed
from the disease, a 16 percent testing compounds that the world,” he says. with Bayer HealthCare.
8 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTPursuing Another treatment, into new treatment areas. targeting
sImPonI® (golimumab), In June, Centocor Ortho
solutions in approved in 2009 for the treat- Biotech Inc. acquired RespiVert Diabetes
ment of rheumatoid arthritis, Ltd., a drug discovery company
Immunology psoriatic arthritis and focused on developing inhaled
ankylosing spondylitis, is now small-molecule therapies for
approved in approximately the treatment of pulmonary
40 countries. Two additional diseases.
applications filed in 2010 seek Sue Dillon, Ph.D., Global
Elizabeth Menduke, 47, lives to expand the U.S. label to Therapeutic Area Head, Worldwide, 300 million
outside Los Angeles, where include inhibition of the Immunology, explains that people live with diabetes—
she owns her own business. progression of structural the acquisition strengthens almost equal to the entire
As a result of her psoriasis, damage in the treatment of capabilities to further build a U.S. population.
she once had scaly red rheumatoid arthritis and pipeline of novel oral and “Diabetes is a far-reaching,
patches on more than psoriatic arthritis. biologic therapies. complex disease,” says Martin
70 percent of her body. After remIcaDe® (infliximab), “We’re focused on areas such Fitchet, M.D., Head of the
treatment with stelara® a treatment with 15 FDA as asthma, chronic obstructive Cardiovascular and
(ustekinumab) for plaque approvals, also received addi- pulmonary disease, idiopathic Metabolism Therapeutic Area.
psoriasis, Elizabeth says, tional marketing approvals in pulmonary fibrosis, sarcoidosis “We are working to develop
“I am so very excited to have 2010, including several in Japan. and lupus,” says Dillon, “where new treatment options that
clearer skin again.” In all, remIcaDe® is available we can continue to make a will not only help better
stelara®, a treatment in 100 countries. difference in patients’ lives.” manage the disease but have
approved for moderate to Such incremental growth the potential to limit its
severe plaque psoriasis, is with existing products is an CLEARER SKIN Psoriasis once progression.”
now available in more than important strategy for the kept Elizabeth Menduke from In 2010, a large clinical
50 countries as a result of Immunology Therapeutic Area, feeling her best. But she has development program for
additional marketing which also expanded research clearer skin after treatment with canagliflozin* and new
approvals in 2010. and development capabilities stelara® for plaque psoriasis. collaborations supported the
Company’s commitment to
build a portfolio of diabetes
treatments.
Canagliflozin is an
investigational oral, selective
sodium-glucose transporter-2
(SGLT2) inhibitor being
studied in patients for the
treatment of type 2 diabetes.
The Phase III clinical trial
program involves more than
10,000 patients.
A new collaboration with
Metabolex, Inc. focuses on
discovering, developing and
commercializing new
treatment options for people
with type 2 diabetes and
obesity. An agreement was
entered into with Diamyd
Medical AB to support the
development of pharmaceuti-
cals targeting autoimmune
diabetes and its complica-
tions, in particular the
treatment and prevention
of type 1 diabetes.
*Canagliflozin is developed in
collaboration with Mitsubishi-
Tanabe Pharma Corporation.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORT 9EmErgINg markEts
Local Insights Inspire
New Products
S
urgeon Zhao Zhongliang serves a farming Johnson & Johnson has also
entered into pharmaceutical research
community in China’s Hebei province. He recently
partnerships that connect biotech,
worked with the Ethicon Endo-Surgery franchise medical and academic communities to
its global research centers. One is a
to develop a new, market-appropriate surgical
partnership in cancer research formed
stapler to meet needs of patients like his. in 2008 with Tianjin Medical University
Cancer Hospital in China. In November
Specialized surgical staples are often creating possibilities for governments to 2010, a research collaboration between
used to connect tissue during certain deliver a higher standard of care to many Tsinghua University in China and
surgeries. They’re credited with quicker more people. Such reforms, along with the Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V. was
recovery times than suturing by hand. But rise of a middle class and expectations of a announced. “This five-year strategic
in emerging markets, it often costs too better quality of life, are providing partnership aims to accelerate discovery
much to use specialized equipment Johnson & Johnson with an enormous research and foster new therapeutic
designed for developed markets. Dr. Zhao opportunity to address a previously approaches for infectious diseases, an
is excited about what the new surgical tool underserved market. area of significant unmet medical need
could mean for his patients. These mass markets are being addressed and one where we feel we can contribute
“Patients who can now receive better with a different business model that is positively to public health goals in
health care at lower cost are certainly focused on bringing an appropriate port- China,” says Kim Taylor, Company
grateful,” he says. “Now, patients don’t folio of technology and products to smaller Group Chairman, Pharmaceuticals,
carry the psychological weight of financial and more rural health care settings, Asia Pacific.
burden, so their recovery is complete.” matching the specific range of procedures In 2009, Johnson & Johnson
For a health care company passionate offered. This approach has led to the established a first-of-its-kind late-phase
about meeting the unmet needs of development of high-quality, affordable chemical entity facility, Analytical and
hundreds of millions more patients, products that provide superior outcomes Pharmaceutical Development Center, in
Johnson & Johnson needs to challenge its for patients who would not otherwise have Mumbai, India. The center will play a key
innovation capability to develop solutions access to such technology. role in addressing major global health
that will be both appropriate and afford- care challenges, many of which also face
able. To that end, Johnson & Johnson is PASSION FOR INNOVATION Mumbai and the region.
strategically basing research and develop- “Our vision is to be a source of innovation For the consumer sector, the
ment (R&D) centers in emerging markets for emerging markets and address the Emerging Market Innovation Center
to develop medical devices and pharma- unique needs of Asia Pacific patients,” that opened in Shanghai in 2007 is built
ceutical and consumer products based on says Michael del Prado, Company Group on a consumer closeness and bonding
insights available in local markets. Chairman, Medical Devices & Diagnostics, program, an integral part of emerging
Asia Pacific. “This might include devices for market product design and development
EMERGING MARKET NEEDS specific disease states that are prevalent in to meet needs in China.
The Asia Pacific region is home to more Asia, simplified and smaller instruments, “I am happy Johnson & Johnson is
than 4 billion people, almost 60 percent of multi-use or disposable products that are focused on making new technologies
the world’s population. While the more more economical, or a product range for and better health care accessible to
affluent societies, such as Japan, Australia, rural health centers.” lower-income patients,” says Dr. Zhao.
coastal China and metropolitan India, In June 2011, a Medical Devices “This results in better outcomes and
have access to innovative products and and Diagnostics R&D center will open in fewer complications, really improving
services, a large segment of the population Suzhou, China, focused on market- the lives of patients.”
has been unable to access or afford much appropriate innovation for fast-growing
beyond a very basic level of health care emerging markets. Functions to support this IMPROVING LIVES Surgeon Zhao
until now. innovation will also be based on the campus, Zhongliang is happy to be a part of making
Recent health care reforms in China including new product development and new technologies and better health care
and India, spurred by continuing marketing, clinical research, regulatory, accessible to patients like those in the
economic growth in these countries, are quality assurance and operations. farming community he serves.
10 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTconsuMer
natural choices
S
ara Snow, an Indianapolis-based TV host and
ELEVATES HERITAGE BRAND
green-living expert, gives her baby a “rub-a-dub-dub “Both the traditional and natural
Johnson’s® products meet the
cleaning” with Johnson’s® natural® head-to-toe™
expectations of purity, mildness and
Foaming Baby Wash, then hands her daughter to Dad
gentleness inherent in our heritage
for the towel snuggle. “Especially for baby products, business,” Holland says. “It’s all about
giving moms a choice.”
less is more,” says Sara. “It’s a fantastic product.”
The line includes three baby and
In June 2010, Johnson & Johnson Holland says. “Some natural ingredients, two kids products: Johnson’s®
Consumer Companies, Inc. launched the such as essential oils, can be irritating natural® Baby Lotion, Johnson’s®
Johnson’s® natural® baby line in or allergenic.” natural® head-to-toe™ Foaming
North America, bringing new, affordable Johnson’s® ultimately developed a Baby Wash, Johnson’s® natural®
natural baby products to moms at mass standard for babies, called the Best for Baby Shampoo, Johnson’s® natural®
retail. The brand was developed in BaBy naturals™ Standard. This led to a Kids 3-in-1 Shampoo, Conditioner &
response to the growing number of formulation that is 98 percent natural Body Wash, and Johnson’s®
parents, like Sara, who are environmen- for the washes and 99 percent natural for natural® Kids 2-in-1 Hand & Face
tally conscious and also want natural the lotions, using plant- and fruit-derived Foaming Wash.
products for their babies. All five products ingredients. It contains the no More Sara Snow, meanwhile, especially
are at least 98 percent natural (derived tears® formula and the first 100 percent appreciates that the prices are lower
from fruits or plants). naturally derived fragrance, allerfree™, than some specialty natural brands
“A growing number of consumers which is free of known allergens and and that the products are available
everywhere in the world want a natural irritating essential oils. at mass retail. “I really like that it’s
solution,” says Patrick Mutchler, Company In addition, Johnson’s® natural® affordable, so that anyone can get their
Group Chairman. “As the global leader in packaging is thoughtful of sustainability hands on it,” says Sara, who was
baby care, it’s our responsibility to meet considerations. The plastic bottles contain such a fan of the products that she
the different needs of different mothers.” no colorant, use up to 60 percent post- became a spokeswoman. “To go with
consumer recycled content and feature a product that for so long has been
NATURAL AND MORE SUSTAINABLE silkscreened graphics rather than labels, a trusted brand like Johnson’s®,
Johnson’s® poured more than 100 years reducing packaging weight and waste. The that really does the research, people
of experience plus science, rigorous product line was honored with an find a real sense of security and
testing and expertise into developing the earthwards™ designation, which comfort in that.”
natural line. One challenge was defining Johnson & Johnson gives to products that
MILD AND GENTLE
just what is “natural.” While many demonstrate significant improvements in
Sara Snow continues to be
organizations have formulated standards, their environmental footprint. Further,
environmentally conscious with her
these criteria don’t address the unique Johnson’s® natural® forged a
choices for her child, like using
needs of babies. partnership with the National Wildlife
Johnson’s® natural® baby products.
“Not all natural products are mild Federation* to encourage children’s The product line was recognized with
enough for a baby’s skin,” says exploration of their natural surroundings. an earthwards™ designation and
Jean Holland, Worldwide Franchise, R&D has forged a partnership with the
Director. For example, a baby’s skin is *A trademark of the National Wildlife National Wildlife Federation.
thinner and more sensitive than an adult’s, Federation. Please visit www.nwf.org. Learn more at www.johnsonsbaby.com.
12 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTJOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORT 25Guarding
against
tooth
erosion
One of the body’s strongest
substances, tooth enamel,
plays a vital role in protecting
the sensitive inner tooth
from daily wear and tear.
Yet with today’s lifestyle of
eating and drinking on the
go—particularly acidic food
and drink—enamel erosion is
all too common.
In the U.K., 91 percent of
dentists report seeing
patients with acid erosion on
a weekly basis, and 9 in 10
adults experience cavities
caused by tooth decay.
Rinsing with listerine®
Total Care Enamel Guard, a
unique blend of listerine®
essential oils and enhanced
fluoride, helps re-mineralize
and re-harden tooth enamel.
The product was successfully
strengthening the trust of TREATING FEVER Doctors in launched in the U.K. in August
more areas of China are now 2010 and is expanding into
Pediatricians and Parents able to give children like Yun Europe and other markets
Han Yang pediatric Motrin®. globally.
The listerine® brand
in children, especially prevalent was a significant driver of
in smaller communities. the Oral Care business in
Before pediatric Motrin® the pediatric fever category Pediatricians nationwide have 2010. listerine® Total Care
became available in the town in larger cities. Since 2009, widely embraced the guide, and products, including
of Lv Xiang in 2010, fevers in an education and awareness Motrin® has gained their trust, listerine® Total Care
children like Yun Han Yang in campaign has successfully as well as the trust of parents Enamel Guard, accounted
this part of China were brought this No. 1 pediatrician- like Hai Yan Li. for more than half the
commonly treated with an recommended anti-fever Shanghai Johnson & Johnson brand’s total sales.
injection, if at all. Her mom, solution to more children across Pharmaceuticals and the China “The continued success of
Hai Yan Li, says being able to the country, including those in Medical Association also listerine® mouthwash in
go to the local clinic for an oral smaller cities or towns like collaborate on Motrin® Pediatric Europe is based on a deep
treatment is easier on every- Lv Xiang. World Window, launched in 2004 understanding of consumer
one. She’s comforted knowing The campaign uses a first-of- to improve pediatric care by needs, met through
Motrin® offers safe and its-kind Fever Treatment providing continuous education innovative products,” says
effective relief from fevers. Guide, developed by Shanghai to pediatricians. More than Neil Dickenson, Oral Care
Pediatric Motrin® has Johnson & Johnson 20,000 pediatricians from Franchise Director, Europe,
been manufactured in China Pharmaceuticals, Ltd. in around China have participated Middle East and Africa.
since 1999, when it was collaboration with the China in satellite symposia on the latest “listerine® Total Care has
introduced there. It quickly Medical Association, to address advances in pediatric academic been a key focus, driving
became the market leader in incorrect treatments for fever knowledge and research. growth across the region.”
14 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTProtecting The Research and Technology been integral to the success of connecting
Center in São José dos Campos RoC® Minesol, today the
skin matches sun protection No. 1 dermatologist-recom- with
innovation with consumer mended sunscreen brand in
lifestyles in Brazil’s mostly Brazil. In fact, one out of two consumers
tropical climate. “Skin care in sunscreens sold in the country
general has become more is a Johnson & Johnson online
important to Brazilian consumer brand.
A little more than two decades consumers, who are now more “The strong educational
ago, when Johnson & Johnson aware of the need for sunscreen, material we have offered to
Industrial Ltda. in Brazil and dermatologists are Brazilians during more than two
launched a campaign to raise recommending sunscreen for decades is one of the main
awareness of the harmful all ages,” says Maria Eduarda reasons consumers are making
effects of tanning without Kertesz, Vice President, an informed choice to use sun
protection, it took a primary Beauty, in Latin America. protection,” says Kertesz.
role in educating Brazilians “We’ve responded to this trend “We’ve played a role in making
on the importance of using with products that combine sun protection part of the daily Online and home shopping
sunscreen. sundown® was other skin care benefits, such routine for people in Brazil.” specialty channels are
the first ever sunscreen as anti-aging, with sun showing tremendous growth
WEARING SUN PROTECTION
introduced in Brazil, in 1984. protection, making it easier globally in the premium skin
Brazilians Mariana and Pedro
Since then, the company has for consumers to use and care and beauty category.
enjoy their time at the beach.
continued to educate people dermatologists to recommend These include TV and mobile-
Their mom knows daily
about sun protection and encourage daily application application of sunscreen helps enabled shopping, branded
and bring forward meaningful of sun protection.” protect against the sun’s stores and door-to-door sales.
products. Dermatologists have damaging rays. The advantages specialty
channels offer, including
discounts and fast delivery,
make them attractive to price-
sensitive loyal customers and
early adopters.
The Consumer business
is moving into these alternate
channels and building
organizational capabilities to
support the strategy. The
Korean skin care market is
one example.
In 2010 the neutroGena®
brand saw double-digit growth
in Korea by engaging
consumers with content and
solutions for acne through a
clear-skin website. Products
specifically designed for sale
online, with direct links to
purchase, were the brand’s
main revenue drivers.
Strategic alliances with top
online retailers helped make
clean & clear® the No. 1
teen skin care brand in major
online channels in Korea. And
the aveeno® Baby site has
become the hub for sharing
the aveeno® product experi-
ence as well as for viral
marketing. Efforts like these in
Korea contributed to growth
outside the U.S. in 2010.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORT 15MEdicAl dEvicEs & diA gnOstics
Reaching More of the World
D
uring total hip or knee surgery, it can be In China, product offerings are being
expanded to meet the unique needs of the
extremely challenging to control bleeding,” says
mass market, which comprises hundreds
surgeon Marco D’Imporzano, M.D. “The bleeding
of millions of people who now have access
site is often difficult to reach, and it is difficult to to some degree of health care. MD&D
businesses have launched a number of
control this bleeding with traditional surgical techniques.”
market-appropriate products in China
At Gaetano Pini Hospital in Milan, Italy, taken the best technology, leveraged the recently. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc.
Dr. D’Imporzano now has access to a new global network of Johnson & Johnson introduced the AdvAnt™ 55 Linear
hemostasis product from Ethicon, Inc. companies and provided a strategic plan Stapler in 2008 and the HCS Disposable
that can be used to stop bleeding. EvicEl® executed by local teams. Now more Curved Circular Stapler in 2010.
Fibrin Sealant (Human), once thawed, is doctors can access this leading technology Designed for specific Asian markets,
ready on-demand to help surgeons meet and make meaningful differences for the OnEtOUcH® UltRAvUE™ blood
critical bleeding challenges. their patients.” glucose meter from LifeScan, Inc. was
EvicEl® is a fibrin sealant approved for Because EvicEl® sealant is both a successfully launched in Japan in
general hemostasis in surgery (that is, it biologic and a medical device product, mid-2008 and is now a popular meter
can be used in any surgical setting) when knowledge and experience in launching there. The meter was introduced in 2010
control of bleeding by standard surgical pharmaceuticals as well as medical devices in China, where diabetes is quickly
techniques is ineffective or impractical. was needed to expand to so many markets becoming an epidemic. Recent data
The human plasma-based biologics in so quickly. In markets like Turkey and indicates that one in 10 people in China
EvicEl® sealant allow it to work Greece, Medical Devices and Diagnostics now have the disease.
independently of the patient’s clotting (MD&D) teams reached out to their To further accelerate progress in
factors, creating a simple solution for counterparts in Pharmaceuticals. Local emerging markets, more research and
complex bleeding problems. expertise was the best way to manage the development is being done outside the U.S.
Often, surgical success depends on the complexity in Italy, which has 21 provinces (See story on page 10.)
ability to quickly and effectively control with distinct regulatory bodies, each with
bleeding at the surgical site. EvicEl® specific requirements. PATIENT NEEDS DRIVE EFFORTS
sealant has become a critical tool to assist “Our strategy was to provide local Efforts to develop market-appropriate
surgeons in ensuring that bleeding during leadership with comprehensive, cross- products and quickly globalize new and
and after surgery doesn’t become life- functional tools,” says Ron Horton, Group existing products rely on an ability to
threatening. Product Director, Ethicon, Inc., who led the leverage capabilities throughout
“The availability of so powerful a topical EvicEl® sealant globalization efforts. “The Johnson & Johnson. The result is reaching
hemostatic product is extremely approach we used is scalable and adaptable more of the world with products that can
important,” says Dr. D’Imporzano. “Using for other business units, which could prove make a difference.
a product like EvicEl®, together with a beneficial for teams in both the MD&D and And that excites the Biosurgicals team
minimally invasive surgical approach, can pharmaceutical segments as they work to too. “We’ve achieved an important market
lead to improved outcomes for patients.” achieve global business goals.” presence with EvicEl®, paving the way
EvicEl® sealant is the first product for products we’re developing,” says
from Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. that GLOBALIZATION DRIVES BUSINESS Dan Wildman, Worldwide President of
Ethicon is taking to more global markets. The ability to quickly globalize products Ethicon, Inc., responsible for the Ethicon
When Ethicon acquired Omrix in 2008, is just one way the MD&D business segment Biosurgery unit. “By meeting significant
EvicEl® sealant was available in one is capitalizing on globalization. Another is needs of surgeons, we’re meeting vital
country. By the end of 2009, it was in 10 by developing market-appropriate needs of their patients.”
countries, and at the end of 2010, in 20 products.
countries, including Italy, where it Today the global MD&D market is worth SURGICAL SUCCESS Dr. Marco
launched in October. approximately $350 billion, more than D’Imporzano completes about 1,000 hip
“This is a great example of how we’ve 50 percent of which is outside the United and knee replacements each year.
used our scale to quickly globalize States, where markets are growing at a He says adjunctive hemostatic products
important products,” says Randy Hubbell, slightly faster rate. And emerging markets like EvicEl® sealant, combined with a
Worldwide Vice President, Ethicon are growing still faster—two to three minimally invasive approach to proce-
Biosurgery unit. “With EvicEl® we’ve times the rate of the overall market. dures, may improve outcomes.
16 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTstopping approximately 4.5 million Hospital, England. The local A World
episodes of health care- emergency hospital has used
deadly associated infections (HAIs) glOsAiR™ 400 Systems to help Without
each year, causing 16 million reduce HAI rates. “We’ve
infections extra days of hospital stay and achieved one of the lowest limits for
37,000 deaths. Another conse- MRSA rates in the National
quence: HAIs place significant Health System since adding People With
cost pressure on hospitals. glOsAiR™ to our infection-
glOsAiR™ helps reduce the prevention practices,” says diabetes
risk of HAIs and is on course to Andrews.
Nearly 125 years ago, become a new standard of care. Since acquiring Gloster
Johnson & Johnson pioneered Studies show that this safe and Europe in 2009, ASP has
ready-to-use surgical user-friendly technology—a leveraged its ability to take Diabetes is a global epidemic
dressings that helped keep hydrogen peroxide dry-mist glOsAiR™ to more markets. that’s increasing at an
pathogens from infecting system—is a more effective A global rollout began with alarming rate. “One of the
wounds. Now, Advanced method of disinfecting health launches throughout Europe biggest challenges people with
Sterilization Products (ASP), care settings, following in 2010; plans are to launch in diabetes face is keeping their
a division of Ethicon, Inc., is cleaning, than sole reliance on the U.S. in 2011. blood glucose levels in range,”
pioneering the reduction of manual application of tradi- says Kenneth Moritsugu, M.D.,
pathogens from health care tional disinfectants. INFECTION PREVENTION Vice President, LifeScan, Inc.
settings with glOsAiR™ area “These machines have helped Paul Andrews and colleague “Better control can lead to
disinfection products. us maintain a good standard of Carrole White use a glOsAiR™ fewer long-term complica-
The World Health cleaning and manage a safe 400 System to help reduce tions and ultimately can lower
Organization estimates that in patient environment,” says health care-associated health care costs.”
Europe, more than 4 million Paul Andrews, Housekeeping infections at Dorset County That’s why the Diabetes
patients are affected by Manager, Dorset County Hospital in England. Care franchise remains dedi-
cated to creating a world
without limits for people with
diabetes, delivering innovative
products and tools that are
easy for health care providers
to teach and give patients
more helpful information.
In 2010, LifeScan began a
global rollout of the
OneTouch® Verio™ Blood
Glucose Monitoring System.
This accurate, easy-to-use
system requires no coding and
filters out many common
interferences, reducing the
chance for error. The system
was test-marketed in the
Netherlands with patients
on insulin therapy and
launched in Australia and
Europe. Other markets
will follow in 2011.
Also in 2010, Animas
Corporation, a leader in
insulin pump systems,
partnered with the Juvenile
Diabetes Research Foundation
to develop a first-generation
partially automated glucose
management system, a
step toward the goal of
revolutionizing treatment
of type 1 diabetes.
18 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTnew
strength
for stroke
treatment
About 15 million people
worldwide suffer a stroke each
year, and as many as one-third
die from it, according to the
World Health Organization.
Often, treatment or interven-
tions to prevent stroke require
physicians to use special
devices to gain access to the
brain. Two companies on
which neuro-interventional-
ists rely for such devices have
come together to create one of
the broadest portfolios and
one of the deepest pipelines in
the neurovascular industry.
In September 2010,
Johnson & Johnson acquired
Micrus Endovascular
Unlocking the dimensions OPTIMISTIC OUTLOOK
Corporation, a global devel- A heart out of rhythm caused
oper and manufacturer of of the Human Heart fatigue and worry for
minimally invasive devices for volunteer fireman Thomas
hemorrhagic (caused by Buehler. Since his AFib
bleeding) and ischemic ablation procedure,
(caused by a blockage) stroke. he says the anxiety and stress
“There are significant unmet Thomas Buehler, 57, of Round in life is very small.” he once felt are gone.
needs in the treatment of Lake, Ill., is hopeful he has The most common form of
neurovascular disease,” says kicked atrial fibrillation (AFib) irregular heartbeat, AFib affects Dr. Natale. “The carto® 3
P. Laxmin Laxminarain, for life. He hasn’t had a recur- more than 20 million people System shows you, in real
Worldwide President, Codman rence since his AFib ablation* worldwide and is the leading time, exactly where you are.
& Shurtleff. Micrus procedure more than a year ago, cause of stroke among people It allows you to create a
Endovascular and Codman and his electrophysiologist, over age 65. A treatment called virtual geometry of the heart,
Neurovascular develop Andrea Natale, M.D., F.A.C.C., AFib ablation passes energy to do the procedure very
innovative and complementary F.H.R.S., shares his optimism. through a thin wire catheter accurately.”
products and technologies for “Although we can never tell a placed inside the heart to For seven years prior to
treating cerebral aneurysms, patient to forget about it disrupt specific tissue identified his procedure, Tom suffered
which can lead to stroke. “Our completely,” says Dr. Natale, as a trigger. The carto® 3 frequent AFib flare-ups
hope is that by bringing these “in general when people do System, the most advanced that lasted anywhere from
companies together,” says well beyond one year, the 3-D imaging technology from two to eight hours. “It was
Laxminarain, “we can fuel chance of a recurrence later Biosense Webster, Inc., helps depressing,” he says, recalling
rapid and meaningful electrophysiologists perform the extreme fatigue that came
innovation that further * thermocool® Navigation AFib ablation with a high degree with them. Recently retired,
Catheters are approved for drug
improves therapeutic options of accuracy. he loves taking long walks and
refractory recurrent symptomatic
and access to care, and “There is a very fine line is enjoying living life again.
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation when
ultimately makes a difference between doing the right thing “All that anxiety and stress is
used with carto® Systems
in the treatment of this (excluding navistar® RMT for the patient and taking a gone. My life has changed
debilitating condition.” thermocool® Catheter). chance of a complication,” says completely.”
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORT 19Johnson & Johnson supply Chain
pathway to patients
T
here’s a pride and also a big sense of drugs and combination products.
“By standardizing processes in our
responsibility in what we do,” says
quality systems and by providing greater
Ray Hanley, Operations Development oversight in this area, we can reduce
Coordinator, DePuy (Ireland). “Some 600 complexity and risk in the area of
quality,” says Kathy Wengel, Chief
knees leave here every day to be implanted in patients
Quality Officer, JJSC.
around the world.”
NURTURING GROWTH TOMORROW
Johnson & Johnson Supply Chain (JJSC) procurement, customer and logistics In addition to improving quality and
helps coordinate the path that our health services, and asset allocation—while compliance, the new model is designed
care products take to reach people— maintaining critical decentralization of to enable growth and improve efficiency
doctors, nurses and patients, mothers, sector operating companies, one of the and effectiveness. Again, cross-sector
fathers and other caregivers— and meet proven strategies of Johnson & Johnson. collaboration—key to bringing forth
their needs. “Ultimately, this new approach to the health care technologies that draw on
“Processing orders, myself and others supply chain will improve the experience expertise from more than one business
I work with genuinely feel how important our customers have when doing business segment—will flourish as manufacturing
it is to get high-quality product to where with Johnson & Johnson companies while and quality experts from various
it ought to be,” says Elaine Eager, generating incremental value for our business units have opportunities to
International Supply Group Team Leader, businesses,” says Shetty. combine their talents.
DePuy (Ireland), who once personally “Campus Ireland” is one example.
transported a knee implant to a hospital due ENABLING PERFORMANCE TODAY There are six manufacturing facilities in
to an urgent patient need. “It’s not simply The organizational design for JJSC Ireland across our Medical Devices and
about moving product from one place to includes a new operating model for Quality Diagnostics and Pharmaceutical
another—it’s about transforming lives.” & Compliance (Q&C) and a new structure businesses. The close proximity of these
Worldwide, JJSC includes a network for Supply Chain Strategy and Project facilities enables the companies to
of manufacturing sites, external Management. Cross-sector collaboration work collaboratively on a range of
manufacturers, distribution centers that the new enterprise model helps projects while facilitating the transfer
and approximately 50,000 associates. facilitate is already playing out in recovery of employees between sites for specific
“Our supply chain organization is a large plans related to manufacturing issues projects, career development and
part of who we are as a company and plays a experienced at McNeil Consumer promotion opportunities. Campus
vital role in our ability to meet the needs of Healthcare. leaders in Ireland are also working toward
our customers,” says Ajit Shetty, Ph.D., “The McNeil situation has all of us creation of a shared state-of-the-art
Corporate Vice President responsible for rethinking business continuity planning manufacturing facility for convergent
JJSC. “We have deployed a new supply chain and how we utilize our plants and partner medical technology products.
operating model that will enable growth, suppliers,” says Robert Salerno, Vice “Our journey to coordinate our
drive quality and compliance, and help us President, Supply Chain Strategy and supply chain organizations is under way,”
run more efficiently so we can more effectively Project Management, JJSC. “Rather than Shetty says. “The operating model has the
serve patients and consumers worldwide.” plan around one operating unit, we can potential to benefit those we serve by
approach manufacturing from a driving quality, efficiency and effectiveness
A NEW HOLISTIC MODEL Johnson & Johnson vantage point. With in all we do and touching—and
The formation of an enterprise supply the new supply chain model, we’re more transforming—lives for years to come.”
chain operating model was announced in able to leverage assets, best practices,
January 2010. Objectives of the new systems and technologies while offering PUTTING PATIENTS FIRST
organization are to enable growth, drive supply chain leaders professional “Close collaboration with colleagues
quality and compliance, improve costs development opportunities across our throughout the supply chain allows me to
and provide professional development companies.” gain a holistic appreciation of the steps
for our people. The new operating model will also between my activities and each patient,”
Created by business leaders in all create a single framework for Q&C across says Ray Hanley in Cork, Ireland. When
three sectors, the model will coordinate companies, inclusive of common quality such insights are used in decision-making,
essential supply chain functions—like standards by product types such as devices, “It’s how we put patients first.”
20 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTJOHNSON & JOHNSON
125 Years of Caring
H
aving heard Joseph Lister speak in 1876, Robert Wood Johnson
was inspired to start a company to manufacture the first
mass-produced sterile surgical dressings and sutures according
to Lister’s methods, helping to make surgery safer and save lives.
With his brothers, James Wood Johnson and Edward Mead Johnson, he founded
Johnson & Johnson, a company that has come to be known for its caring.
Caring inspires the people of companies were added. With new Miri Seiberg, Ph.D., Distinguished
Johnson & Johnson to advance health companies came great scientists. Research Fellow at the Skin Biology
and well-being. Just as the Johnson Dr. Philip Levine studied human blood group, Johnson & Johnson Consumer
brothers did, we embrace research and and discovered many of the subgroups in Companies, Inc. “We can combine
science, bring forward innovative ideas, blood typing. His work led to the knowledge and technology with
products and services, and work with development of RhoGAM®, the first innovative ideas to create better products
partners in health care to touch lives Rho (D) immunoglobulin product to treat and better serve our customers.”
throughout the world. hemolytic disease of the newborn and a Seiberg is a 2003 recipient for the
“Meeting unmet needs in health care, product that has helped save the lives of discovery and development of the
one of our most important mandates, is countless babies. Dr. Paul Janssen, “Total-Soy” skin care platform
to foster innovation both internally and a Belgian scientist and one of the 20th technology.
through external collaborations,” says century’s most innovative and inspiring “As scientists make new discoveries
Garry Neil, M.D., Corporate Vice pharmaceutical researchers, discovered and gain a deeper understanding of the
President, Corporate Office of Science & haloperidol and led teams credited with human body, more doors open to
Technology. “Throughout our business discovering 80 medicines. develop new products,” says Shawn Stad,
segments, we have talented and driven The promise of new innovations inspires Staff Engineer at DePuy, Inc., a 2010
scientists whose work is at the heart of Johnson & Johnson scientists today. recipient for his role in developing the
product innovations we continue to bring Miri Seiberg, Shawn Stad and Marie-Pierre VIPER®2 Minimally Invasive Spine
forward, just as we’ve done for 125 years.” de Béthune are among the select scientists System. “There will always be a need for
Dr. Frederick Barnett Kilmer was the who share the distinction of having received medical intervention, and there will
Company’s first scientific director and the Johnson Medal for Research and always be value in doing it better.”
chief publicity officer, from 1889–1934. Development for outstanding science and For Marie-Pierre de Béthune, Ph.D.,
Dr. Kilmer spread knowledge of antiseptic technology relating to contributions to a Vice President, External Innovation at
methods for treating wounds, furthered specific product or process. Named after Tibotec, BVBA, receiving the medal shows
the scientific direction of the Company, the late General Robert Wood Johnson, that ultimately the work makes a
and helped earn trust for its expanding who authored Our Credo in 1943, it is the difference for patients. “The highest
product lines among physicians and most prestigious award for research and recognition I can get is when patients
patients. His tenure saw many pioneering development in the corporation. Each of thank us for the drugs,” says de Béthune
firsts, including steam sterilization the honoree’s experiences demonstrates who was awarded the recognition in 2009
techniques, first aid kits, JOHNSON’S® that caring for others combined with for the discovery and development of
Baby Powder and BAND-AID® Brand innovative research and science makes PREZISTA™ (darunavir), for the treatment
Adhesive Bandages—invented by all the difference. of HIV-1 infection. “Each patient who says
employee Earle Dickson. “Johnson & Johnson enables us to be thank you is as breathtaking as the next.
As Johnson & Johnson grew, new at the cutting edge of technology,” says You don’t get used to it.”
A PORTRAIT OF INNOVATION Since 1886, generations of Johnson & Johnson employees have brought forth transformative
ideas and products. Every invention, every product, every breakthrough has been and will be powered by people and inspired by
their caring. These are just some of our landmark inventions and products. A guide to the photo is on the inside back cover.
Learn more at www.jnj.com/ourhistory.
22 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTOur Caring
Caring for Women and Children
S
arah Omega in mebendazole, a treatment for intestinal mortality declined by 53 percent in the
worms in children (see the Company’s 360 hospitals surveyed.
Kenya, Yu Haixia
2009 annual report); extended support for
in China and a variety of safe birth programs; and a MOBILE HEALTH FOR MOTHERS
significant expansion of mobile health Alessandra, 2, is the joy of her mother
Megan Johnson in
initiatives in countries with high infant Megan Johnson’s life. But so far, Megan’s
the United States share mortality rates and high mobile second pregnancy seems much harder
something in common. penetration, such as Bangladesh, China, on her than her first. So the Middletown,
India, Mexico, Nigeria and South Africa. Conn., mom is using the text4baby
Each of these mother’s
service for help. “Messages and reminders
lives has been touched by SAFE PREGNANCY AND BIRTH PROGRAMS from text4baby help put me at ease.
Sarah Omega suffered 12 years of Being relaxed is better for me and my
Johnson & Johnson and its
incontinence and social rejection because baby,” she says.
network of community- of fistula, an injury resulting from Text4baby offers free health
based partners, working prolonged childbirth. “It was the first time information for expectant mothers and
I could afford a genuine smile,” she says, through a baby’s first year of life, easily
together to better health
recalling the day it was repaired. The accessible through cell phones. This
and save and improve lives. United Nations Population Fund landmark project is made possible through
(UNFPA) estimates that more than a public-private partnership that includes
“Caring for the health of mothers and 2 million women have untreated fistulas, government, corporations, academic
children has been a pillar of our and approximately 100,000 more institutions, professional associations,
philanthropic initiatives for the last 100 develop the condition each year. trial agencies and nonprofit organizations.
years,” says Sharon D’Agostino, Vice Johnson & Johnson supports UNFPA Johnson & Johnson is the founding
President, Worldwide Corporate and key hospitals such as Addis Ababa sponsor of the text4baby service and
Contributions, Johnson & Johnson. Fistula Hospital in Ethiopia and expanded its commitment in 2010
In 2010, Johnson & Johnson continued Comprehensive Community Based with a multimillion-dollar, multi-year
its long-standing legacy with a five-year Rehabilitation in Dar es Salaam, pledge. This support will significantly
commitment in response to the United Tanzania, to prevent and treat fistula accelerate the reach of text4baby in
Nations’ call to action to achieve the and help survivors rebuild their lives. the United States.
Millennium Development Goals (MDG) Another example of a safe birth
of reducing mortality in women and program: When Yu Haixia’s son, MAXIMIZING IMPACT
children by 2015. The commitment aims Song Xiaoyan, was born, he could not “The impact we have on people’s lives is
to help as many as 120 million women breathe on his own until nurses performed a vitally important aspect of our giving
each year over the next five years, life-giving resuscitation. Xiaoyan is one and caring as a company,” says D’Agostino.
reaching 50 countries through our of thousands of children given new life “Equally important is the support we
philanthropic programs. through China’s Neonatal Resuscitation provide to our community-based partners.
“We have a responsibility to share Program (NRP), a joint effort by We provide strategic guidance as well as
our resources and bring the latest Johnson & Johnson, the Chinese Ministry financial support, working with these
knowledge, technology and medicine of Health and the American Academy of organizations to measure their results
to improve the lives of women and Pediatrics to address birth asphyxia— and ensure that programs are having the
children,” says D’Agostino. when a baby is unable to breathe at birth. desired effect.”
The MDG commitment includes Since its launch in late 2004, more than In the last decade, Johnson & Johnson
research and development efforts to bring 100,000 medical professionals from more and its operating companies have provided
forward new treatments for HIV and than 20 provinces have been trained. more than $4.3 billion in grants, product
tuberculosis (see related story on page 6); In studies conducted by the Chinese donations and patient assistance,
200 million doses annually of Ministry of Health, birth asphyxia touching lives around the world.
24 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTSAFE BIRTH PROGRAMS After surgery repaired her fistula, Sarah Omega (top) went from being a victim of social stigma to a
social advocate with the UNFPA Campaign to End Fistula. Yu Haixia (bottom left) remembers vividly the horrifying silence and then
her baby’s first cry, a sign he could breathe on his own, after nurses performed life-giving resuscitation. Megan Johnson (bottom right)
is using text4baby to help her during her second pregnancy as she tries to take the best care of herself, daughter Alessandra and baby
on-the-way. Read their stories, and more about the Company’s philanthropic efforts, on www.jnj.com/ourcaring.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORT 25recycling Material and document policies and MEANINGFUL LIFE Iraci
develop a stronger social Leandro dos Santos finds
reshaping Lives infrastructure. purpose in the mantra
“Social and operational “We recycle and the Earth
infrastructure will enable the benefits.”
cooperatives to grow
responsibly, while documented SA8000 is based on the United
policies will reduce risks, Nations Universal Declaration
The recycling cooperative waste material for recycling, making the catadores more of Human Rights, Convention
Futura in São José dos living and working in attractive to businesses,” on the Rights of the Child and
Campos, Brazil, is a strong cooperatives. The cooperatives says Michael Maggio, various International Labour
community of people create a purpose-filled way Vice President, Global Organization conventions. It
otherwise invisible to society. of life, providing a level of Strategic Design Operations, includes nine basic principles,
Its members proudly do work dignity for its members, who Johnson & Johnson. “That’s such as documented policies
that provides a service to the are poor and formally important, because they on child labor, discrimination
larger community and serves unemployed. In 2009, Project provide valuable recycled and health and safety.
a significant purpose. “The Phoenix was started to help content to suppliers and “We’re seeing great progress,
work we do here is important Futura and other cooperatives companies, like us, that are especially from Futura, which
because people outside learn in Brazil responsibly foster their increasingly interested in using has relationships with one of
about recycling through us,” lifestyle and improve their these materials.” our suppliers, Suzano, which
says Iraci Leandro dos Santos. livelihood. The catadores have Project Phoenix is modeled makes packaging for
She proclaims the Futura operated largely on an on SA8000, a global social Band-aid® Brand Adhesive
mantra: “We recycle and the unwritten social code of accountability standard for Bandages,” says Maggio.
Earth benefits.” cooperation. Project Phoenix ethical working conditions, “Ultimately we’d like to see
Iraci is a catador, one of helps cooperatives improve developed by Social the catadores achieve SA8000
many who collect and process their operational processes, Accountability International. certification.”
26 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTFirst Row COMMITTEES OF
Board of THE BOARD
WILLIAM C. WELDON
Chairman, Board of Directors; AUDIT
Directors
Chief Executive Officer; The Audit Committee,
and Chairman, Executive composed entirely of indepen-
Committee dent Directors, helps the Board
Second Row, Left to Right oversee the Company’s finan-
MARY SUE COLEMAN, PH.D. cial accounting and reporting
President, University of Michigan practices. It recommends the
independent public auditor for
JAMES G. CULLEN
appointment by the Board and
Retired President and Chief
reviews its performance.
Operating Officer, Bell Atlantic
In addition, the Committee
Corporation
monitors the adequacy of
Third Row, Left to Right
internal accounting practices,
IAN E. L. DAVIS
procedures and controls;
Managing Director Emeritus;
reviews the Company’s financial
Former Worldwide Managing
reporting process and disclo-
Director, McKinsey & Company
sure procedures; and helps the
MICHAEL M. E. JOHNS, M.D.
Board oversee the Company’s
Chancellor, Emory University
legal compliance programs.
Fourth Row, Left to Right
SUSAN L. LINDQUIST, PH.D. James G. Cullen, Chairman
Member and Former Director, Mary Sue Coleman, Ph.D.
Whitehead Institute for Ian E. L. Davis
Biomedical Research; Professor Leo F. Mullin
of Biology, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology COMPENSATION & BENEFITS
The Compensation & Benefits
ANNE M. MULCAHY
Former Chairman and Committee, composed entirely
Chief Executive Officer, of independent Directors,
Xerox Corporation establishes the Company’s
executive compensation
Fifth Row, Left to Right
philosophy and principles and
LEO F. MULLIN
approves the annual compen-
Retired Chairman and
sation and long-term
Chief Executive Officer,
incentives for the Company’s
Delta Air Lines, Inc.
directors and executive offi-
WILLIAM D. PEREZ
cers. The Committee also
Senior Advisor, Greenhill & Co.,
reviews the philosophy and
Inc.; Retired President and
policies of the non-Board
Chief Executive Officer,
Management Compensation
Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company
Committee, which determines
Sixth Row, Left to Right management compensation
CHARLES PRINCE and establishes perquisites and
Chairman, Sconset Group, LLC;
other compensation policies
Senior Counselor, Albright
for non-executive employees.
Capital Management LLC;
Additionally, the Committee
Retired Chairman and Chief
oversees the management of
Executive Officer, Citigroup Inc.
the various retirement,
DAVID SATCHER, M.D., PH.D. pension, long-term incentive,
Director, Center of Excellence savings, health and welfare
on Health Disparities, plans that cover the
Director, Satcher Health Company’s employees.
Leadership Institute and
Charles Prince, Chairman
Poussaint-Satcher-Cosby Chair
Michael M. E. Johns, M.D.
in Mental Health, Morehouse
Anne M. Mulcahy
School of Medicine; Former
William D. Perez
U.S. Surgeon General
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORT 27FINANCE Directors; one of the CORPORATE OFFICERS EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
The Finance Committee Company’s Vice Chairmen, WILLIAM C. WELDON The Executive Committee of
exercises the authority of the Executive Committee; and the Chairman, Board of Directors Johnson & Johnson is the
Board during the intervals Vice Presidents for Corporate Chief Executive Officer principal management
between Board meetings. Affairs, Government Affairs and Chairman, Executive Committee group responsible for the
The Finance Committee is Policy, and Johnson & Johnson operations and allocation of
composed of the Chairman of Supply Chain. DOMINIC J. CARUSO the resources of the Company.
Vice President
the Board and the Presiding This Committee oversees and
Finance Chief Financial Officer
Director. Leo F. Mullin, Chairman coordinates the activities of the
Executive Committee
Ian E. L. Davis Consumer, Pharmaceuticals
William C. Weldon, Chairman Alex Gorsky DOUGLAS K. CHIA and Medical Devices and
James G. Cullen Clifford E. Holland Corporate Secretary Diagnostics business segments.
Susan L. Lindquist, Ph.D. Assistant General Counsel Each subsidiary within the
Brian D. Perkins business segments is, with
STEPHEN J. COSGROVE
NOMINATING & CORPORATE David Satcher, M.D., Ph.D. some exceptions, managed by
Corporate Controller
GOVERNANCE Ajit S. Shetty, Ph.D. citizens of the country where it
The Nominating & Corporate LAVERNE H. COUNCIL is located.
Governance Committee, Vice President
composed entirely of SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Chief Information Officer
independent Directors, is The Science & Technology WORLDWIDE CHAIRMEN
responsible for overseeing Advisory Committee, composed RUSSELL C. DEYO
Vice President CONSUMER GROUP
corporate governance matters, of independent Directors and
General Counsel Jesse J. Wu
reviewing possible candidates the Company’s Vice President,
Executive Committee
for Board membership and Science and Technology, helps MEDICAL DEVICES &
recommending nominees for the Board with scientific matters PETER M. FASOLO DIAGNOSTICS GROUP
election. The Committee is impacting the Company’s Worldwide Vice President Michael F. Mahoney
also responsible for overseeing business, including monitoring Human Resources PHARMACEUTICALS GROUP
the process for performance the strategy and effectiveness Executive Committee Joaquin Duato
evaluations of the Board and of the Company’s research and Paul Stoffels, M. D.
its committees. Additionally, development organization; ALEX GORSKY
Vice Chairman
the Committee reviews the reviewing the effectiveness
Executive Committee
Company’s executive of scientific aspects of the COMPANY GROUP
succession plans and Company’s product safety RAYMOND C. JORDAN CHAIRMEN
executive resources. processes; overseeing major Vice President
ROBERTO DE O. MARQUES
business development activities Public Affairs &
William D. Perez, Chairman related to the acquisition of Corporate Communication MICHAEL J. F. DEL PRADO
James G. Cullen new science or technology; and
Anne M. Mulcahy identifying and understanding SHERILYN S. MCCOY SETH H. Z. FISCHER
Vice Chairman
Charles Prince significant new science and GARY FISCHETTI
Executive Committee
technology policy issues and
JANE GRIFFITHS
trends. JOHN A. PAPA
PUBLIC POLICY Treasurer GUY J. LEBEAU, M.D.
The Public Policy Advisory David Satcher, M.D., Ph.D., KAREN A. LICITRA
Committee reviews the Chairman BRIAN D. PERKINS
Vice President PATRICK D. MUTCHLER
Company’s policies, programs Mary Sue Coleman, Ph.D.
Corporate Affairs
and practices on public health Michael M. E. Johns, M.D. DAVID Y. NORTON
issues regarding the environ- Susan L. Lindquist, Ph.D.
MICHEL PAUL
ment and the health and safety Garry A. Neil, M.D.
of employees. The Committee JACQUES PEETERS
also reviews the Company’s
GARY J. PRUDEN
governmental affairs and
policies and other public policy MARC E. ROBINSON
issues facing the Company. MICHAEL E. SNEED
The Committee advises and
PERICLES P. STAMATIADES
makes recommendations
to the Board on these issues KIM TAYLOR
as appropriate. The Public
NICHOLAS J. VALERIANI
Policy Advisory Committee
is composed of independent
28 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTCorporate Governance and Management’s Responsibility
Johnson &Johnson is guided by the values set forth in Our Credo, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
created by General Robert Wood Johnson in 1943. Theseprinciples accountingfirm, is engaged to perform an integrated audit of our
have guided us over the years and continue to set the toneof consolidated financial statements and internal control over financial
integrity for theentire Company. At all levels, the employees of reporting. TheReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Johnson &Johnson are committed to the ethical principles embod- Firm is on page 72.
ied in Our Credo and these principles have been woven into the TheAudit Committee of our Board of Directors is composed
fabric of the Company. solely of independent directors with the financial knowledge and
Thevalues articulated in Our Credo extend to our accounting experience to provide appropriate oversight. We review internal
and financial responsibilities to Johnson & Johnson shareholders control matters and key accounting and financial reporting issues
and investors. We, the management of Johnson & Johnson, are with the Audit Committee on a regular basis. In addition, the inde-
responsible for theintegrity and objectivity of the accompanying pendent auditors, the General Counsel, the Chief Financial Officer,
financial statements and related information. We are also responsi- the Chief Compliance Officer and the Vice President of Internal
ble for ensuringthat financial data is reported accurately and in a Audit regularly meet in private sessions with our Audit Committee
manner that facilitates the understanding of this data. to discuss the results of their work, including observations on the
As evidence of our commitmentto this responsibility, we adequacy of internal financial controls, thequality of financial
maintain a well-designed system of internal accountingcontrols, reporting and confirmation that they are properly discharging their
encourage strong and effective corporate governance from our responsibilities and other relevant matters.
Board of Directors, continuously review our business results and Our Executive Committee is continuously involved in the
strategic choices, and focus on financial stewardship. review of financial results as well as developing and understanding
Our corporate staff of professionally trained internal auditors, strategies and key initiatives for long-term growth. Our intentis to
who travel worldwide, monitor our system of internal accounting ensure that we maintain objectivity in our business assessments,
controls designedto provide reasonable assurance that assets are constructively challenge the approachto business opportunities and
safeguarded and thattransactions and events are recorded properly. issues, and monitor our business results and the related controls.
Our internal controls includeself-assessments and internal reviews Our consolidated financial statements and financial datathat
of our operating companies. follow have been prepared in conformity with accountingprinciples
During 2010, the Company continuedto invest significant time generally accepted in the United States of America and include
and resources in order to ensure compliance with Section 404 of amounts that are based upon our best judgments. We are commit-
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Based on the work performed, we ted to present and discuss results of operations in a clear and
have concludedthat our internal control over financial reporting transparent manner in order to provide timely, comprehensive and
waseffective as of January 2, 2011. We refer you to Management’s understandable information to our shareholders.
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting on page 73.
We require the management teams of our operating compa-
nies to certify their compliance with our Policy on Business Conduct,
which sets forth the Company’s commitmentto conduct its busi-
ness affairs with integrity and comply with the governing laws and
regulations. We have a systematic program designed to ensure
compliance with these policies andprovide means of reporting any
concerns about violations of the policy. Please visit our website at William C. Weldon Dominic J. Caruso
www.investor.jnj.com/governance/conduct.cfm to view our Policy Chairman, Board of Directors, Vice President, Finance,
on Business Conduct. and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
Table of Contents
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS AUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 Organization and Business Segments 41 Consolidated Balance Sheets
30 Results of Operations 42 Consolidated Statements of Earnings
31 Analysis of Sales by Business Segments 43 Consolidated Statements of Equity
33 Analysis of Consolidated Earnings Before Provision 44 Consolidated Statements of CashFlows
for Taxes on Income 45 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
36 Liquidity and Capital Resources 72 Report of Independent Registered Public AccountingFirm
37 Other Information 73 Management’s Report on Internal Control Over
40 Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results Financial Reporting
SUPPORTING SCHEDULES
74 Summary of Operations and Statistical Data 2000–2010
75 Shareholder Return Performance Graphs
76 Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORT 29Management’s Discussion andAnalysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Organization and Business Segments MANAGEMENT’S OBJECTIVES
TheCompany manages within a strategic framework aimed at
DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY AND BUSINESS SEGMENTS
achieving sustainable growth. To accomplishthis, the Company’s
Johnson &Johnson and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) have
management operates the business consistent with certain strate-
approximately 114,000 employees worldwide engaged in the
gic principles that have proven successful over time. To this end, the
research and development, manufacture and sale of a broad range
Company participates in growth areas in human health care and is
of products in thehealth care field. TheCompany conducts business
committed to attaining leadership positions in these growth areas
in virtually all countries of the worldwith the primary focus on
through the development of high quality, innovative products and
products related to human health and well-being.
services. New products introduced within the past five years
TheCompany is organized into three business segments:
accounted for approximately 25% of 2010sales. In 2010, $6.8 bil-
Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics.
lion, or 11.1% of sales, was invested in research and development.
TheConsumer segment includes a broad range of products usedin
This investment reflects management’s commitmentto the impor-
the baby care, skin care, oral care, woundcare and women’s health
tance of ongoingdevelopment of new and differentiated products
care fields, as well as nutritional and over-the-counter pharmaceuti-
and services to sustain long-term growth.
cal products andwellness and prevention platforms. Theseproducts
With more than 250 operating companies located in 60
are marketed to the general public and sold both to retail outlets
countries, theCompany views its principle of decentralized man-
anddistributors throughout the world. ThePharmaceutical segment
agement as an asset and fundamental to the success of a broadly
includes products in the following areas: anti-infective, antipsy-
based business. It also fosters an entrepreneurial spirit, combining
chotic, contraceptive, dermatology, gastrointestinal, hematology,
the extensive resources of a large organization with the ability to
immunology, neurology, oncology, pain management and virology.
anticipate and react quickly to local market changes and challenges.
Theseproducts are distributed directly to retailers, wholesalers and
The Company is committed to developing global business lead-
health care professionals for prescription use. TheMedical Devices
ers who can drive growth objectives. Businesses are managed for the
and Diagnostics segment includes a broad range of products distrib-
long-term in order to sustain leadership positions and achieve growth
uted to wholesalers, hospitals and retailers used principally in the
that provides an enduring source of valueto our shareholders.
professional fields by physicians, nurses, therapists, hospitals, diag-
Our Credo unifies the management team and the Company’s
nostic laboratories and clinics. Theseproducts includeBiosense
dedicated employees in achieving these objectives, and provides a
Webster’s electrophysiology products; Cordis’ circulatory disease
common set of values that serve as a constant reminder of the
management products; DePuy’s orthopaedic joint reconstruction,
Company’s responsibilities to its customers, employees, communi-
spinal care, neurological and sports medicine products; Ethicon’s
ties and shareholders. TheCompany believes that these basic
surgical care, aesthetics and women’s health products; Ethicon
principles, along with its overall mission of improving the quality
Endo-Surgery’s minimally invasive surgical products andadvanced
oflife for peopleeverywhere, will enable Johnson & Johnson to
sterilization products; LifeScan’s blood glucose monitoring and
continue to beamong the leaders in the health care industry.
insulin delivery products; Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics’ professional
diagnostic products andVistakon’s disposable contact lenses.
Results of Operations
TheCompany’s structure is based upon the principle of
decentralized management. TheExecutive Committee of
ANALYSIS OF CONSOLIDATED SALES
Johnson&Johnson is the principalmanagement group responsible In 2010, worldwide sales decreased 0.5% to $61.6 billion, compared
forthe operations and allocation of the resources of the Company. to a decrease of 2.9% in 2009 and an increase of 4.3% in 2008.
This Committee oversees and coordinates the activities of the Thesesales changes consisted of the following:
Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics
business segments. Sales (decrease)/increase due to: 2010 2009 2008
Volume (0.5)% (0.2) 1.1
In all of its product lines, the Company competes with compa-
nies both local andglobal, located throughout the world. Competi- Price (0.8) (0.1) 0.8
tion exists in all product lines without regard to the number and size Currency 0.8 (2.6) 2.4
of the competing companies involved. Competition in research, Total (0.5)% (2.9) 4.3
involvingthe development and the improvement of new and existing
products andprocesses, is particularly significant. Thedevelopment Sales by U.S. companies were $29.5 billion in 2010, $30.9 billion in
of new and innovative products is important to the Company’s 2009 and $32.3 billion in 2008. This represents a decrease of 4.7%
success in all areas of its business. This also includes protecting in 2010, a decrease of 4.4%in 2009 and a decrease of 0.4%in
theCompany’s portfolio of intellectual property. Thecompetitive 2008. Sales by international companies were $32.1 billion in 2010,
environment requires substantial investments in continuing $31.0 billion in 2009 and $31.4 billion in 2008. This represents an
research and in maintaining sales forces. In addition, thedevelop- increase of 3.6% in 2010, a decrease of 1.4%in 2009 and an
ment and maintenance of customer demand for theCompany’s increase of 9.7% in 2008.
consumer products involves significant expenditures for advertising
and promotion.
30 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTincluded an increase in the minimum Medicaid rebate rate from
70
U.S. and
15.1% to 23.1% and also extended the rebate to drugs provided
International Sales 60
through Medicaid managed care organizations. The 2010 impact
for10 Years
(inbillions of dollars) 50 wasan increase in sales rebates reducingsales revenue by approxi-
mately $400 million. The 2011 full year impact to sales of the
40
U.S. legislation is estimated to be $400–$500 million.
International 30 Beginning in 2011, companies that sell branded prescription
drugs to specified U.S. Government programswill pay an annual non-
20
tax deductiblefee based on an allocation of the company’s market
10
share of totalbranded prescriptiondrug salesfrom the prioryear. The
0 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 0 0 10 estimate of the impact on the Company in 2011 is $150–$200 mil-
lion.Beginning in 2013, the Company will be required to pay
ataxdeductible 2.3% excise tax imposed on the sale of certain
The five-year compound annual growth rates for worldwide, medical devices.
U.S. and international sales were 4.0%, 0.7% and 7.7%, respectively.
The ten-year compound annual growth rates for worldwide, U.S.
Salesby 70
andinternational sales were 7.8%, 5.5%and 10.5%, respectively. Segment
60
(inbillions of dollars)
70 50
Sales by
Geographic 60 Consumer 40
Region Pharmaceutical
(inbillions of dollars) 50 MedicalDevices 30
andDiagnostics
U.S. 40 20
Europe
WesternHemisphere 30 10
excludingU.S.
Asia Pacific, Africa 20 0 ’08 ’0 ’10
10
0
0 0 10 Analysis of Sales by Business Segments
CONSUMER SEGMENT
Sales in Europe experienced a decline of 2.7% including opera- Consumer segment sales in 2010 were $14.6 billion, a decrease of
tional growth of 0.5% and a negative impact from currency of 3.2%. 7.7% from 2009, with 8.9% of this change due to an operational
Sales in theWestern Hemisphere (excluding the U.S.) achieved decline partially offset by positive currency impact of 1.2%. U.S. Con-
growth of 7.6% including an operational decline of 0.5% and an sumer segment sales were $5.5 billion, a decrease of 19.3%. Interna-
increase of 8.1% related to thepositive impact of currency. Sales in tional sales were $9.1 billion, an increase of 1.2%, with an operational
the Asia-Pacific, Africa region achieved growth of 11.7%, including decline of 1.0% offset by positive currency impact of 2.2%.
operational growth of 5.5% and an increase of 6.2% related to the TheOver-the-Counter (OTC) Pharmaceuticals and Nutritionals
positive impact of currency. franchise sales were $4.5 billion, a decrease of 19.2% from 2009.
In 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company did not have acus- Sales were negatively impacted by the voluntary recalls of certain
tomer that represented 10% or more of total consolidated revenues. OTC products announced earlier in the year and suspension of
2009 results benefited from the inclusion of a 53rd week. production at McNeil Consumer Healthcare’s Fort Washington,
(SeeNote 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for Annual Pennsylvania facility. McNeil’s recalls of products manufactured at
Closing Date details). TheCompany estimated that the fiscal year both Las Piedras and Fort Washington facilities impacted the total
2009 growth rate was enhanced by approximately 0.5% due to the year sales by approximately $900 million.
53rd week. Alternate supplies of products are planned to be available in
the latter half of 2011. McNeil Consumer Healthcare submitted its
U.S. HEALTH CARE REFORM Comprehensive Action Plan (CAP) to the U.S. Food and Drug
The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Administration (FDA) on July 15, 2010, which encompasses, among
Careand EducationReconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law other items, training, resources and capital investments in quality
during March 2010. The newly enacted health care reform legislation and manufacturing systems across the McNeil organization. The
Major Consumer Franchise Sales:
________%_ _C_h_a_ng_e________
(Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009 2008 ’10 vs. ’09 ’09vs. ’08
OTC Pharmaceuticals & Nutritionals $ 4,549 5,630 5,894 (19.2)% (4.5)
Skin Care 3,452 3,467 3,381 (0.4) 2.5
Baby Care 2,209 2,115 2,214 4.4 (4.5)
Women’s Health 1,844 1,895 1,911 (2.7) (0.8)
Oral Care 1,526 1,569 1,624 (2.7) (3.4)
Wound Care/Other 1,010 1,127 1,030 (10.4) 9.4
Total $14,590 15,803 16,054 (7.7)% (1.6)
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 31Company continues to communicate with the FDA on remediation PROCRIT®(Epoetin alfa) and EPREX®(Epoetin alfa) had com-
actions and is on schedule with the commitments madein theCAP. bined sales of $1.9 billion in 2010, a decline of 13.9% compared to
The Skin Care franchise sales were $3.5 billion, a decline of the prior year. Lower sales of PROCRIT®and EPREX®were primarily
0.4% compared to the prior year due in part to a temporary reduc- due to the declining markets for Erythropoiesis Stimulating Agents
tion in shipments of Neutrogena products due to product supply (ESAs). EPREX®also experienced increased competition.
constraints partially offset by growth in the AVEENO®, JOHNSON’s® RISPERDAL®CONSTA®(risperidone), a long-acting injectable
Adult, LE PETIT MARSEILLAIS®and DABAO®skin care lines. The antipsychotic, achieved salesof$1.5 billion in 2010, representing an
Baby Care franchise sales grew by 4.4% to $2.2 billion in 2010, increase of 5.3% as compared to the prioryear. Solid growth of 16.4%
primarily due to growth in the Asia Pacific region partially offset by was achieved outside the U.S., with very strong growth in Japan.In
the impact of the economic situation in Venezuela. TheWomen’s the U.S. the successful launch of INVEGA®SUSTENNA™(paliperi-
Health franchise sales were $1.8 billion, a decrease of 2.7% primarily done palmitate)also increased the growth of the long-acting
due to increased competitive pressures and the impact of the eco- injectable antipsychotic market.
nomic situation in Venezuela. TheOral Care franchise sales were LEVAQUIN®(levofloxacin)/FLOXIN®(ofloxacin) sales were
$1.5 billion, a decrease of 2.7% primarily due to the divestiture of the $1.4 billion, a decline of 12.5% versus the prior year primarily due to
EFFERDENT®/Effergrip®brands in the fiscal fourth quarter of 2009 the decline in the market and increased penetration of generics.
and lower sales of mouth rinses and toothbrushes in the United Market exclusivity in the U.S. expires in June 2011. Theexpiration
States. TheWound Care/Other franchise sales were $1.0 billion, a ofa product’s market exclusivity is likely to result in a significant
decrease of 10.4%primarily due to private label competition and reduction in sales.
slower category growth. CONCERTA®(methylphenidate HCl), a product for thetreat-
Consumer segment sales in 2009 were $15.8 billion, a ment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), achieved
decrease of 1.6% from 2008, with 2.0% of this change due to opera- sales of $1.3 billion in 2010, a decrease of 0.5% compared to the
tional growth and negative currency impact of 3.6%. U.S. Consumer prior year. Sales growth in the U.S. was impacted by lower market
segment sales were $6.8 billion, a decrease of 1.4%. International share and the health care reform legislation enacted in March 2010
sales were $9.0 billion, a decrease of 1.7%, with growth of 4.7% resulting from changes to rebates to Medicaid managed care organ-
achieved by operations and a decrease of 6.4%resulting from the izations. On November 1, 2010, the Company entered into a U.S.
negative impact of currency fluctuations. supply and distribution agreement with Watson Laboratories, Inc. to
distribute an authorized generic version of CONCERTA®beginning
PHARMACEUTICAL SEGMENT May 1, 2011. This authorized generic launch is likely to result in a
Pharmaceutical segment sales in 2010were $22.4 billion, a significant reduction in CONCERTA®sales.
decrease of 0.6% from 2009, with an operational decline of 1.0% VELCADE®(bortezomib), a product for thetreatment for mul-
and a positive currency impact of 0.4%. U.S. sales were $12.5 billion, tiple myeloma, for which theCompany has commercial rights in
a decrease of 4.0%. International sales were $9.9 billion, an Europe and the rest of the worldoutside the U.S., achieved sales of
increase of 4.2%, which included 3.4%operational growth and a $1.1 billion in 2010, representing an increase of 15.8% as compared
positive currency impact of 0.8%. Pharmaceutical segment sales in to the prior year.
2010were reduced by approximately $400 million as a result of ACIPHEX®/PARIET®(rabeprazole sodium) sales were
U.S. health care reform legislation. $1.0 billion, a decline of 8.2% versus the prior year due to increased
REMICADE®(infliximab),a biologic approved for the treatment competition from generics in the category.
of a number of immune mediated inflammatory diseases, achieved TOPAMAX®(topiramate), experienced a sales decline
salesof $4.6 billion in 2010, with growth of 7.1% over the prior year. of53.3%compared to the prior year. Market exclusivity for
U.S. export sales grew 24.3% versus the prior year primarily driven TOPAMAX®expired in March 2009 in the U.S. and inSeptember
by market growth. REMICADE®is competing in a market that is 2009 in most European countries. Multiple generics have entered
experiencing increased competition due to new entrants,including the market. Loss of market exclusivity for the TOPAMAX®patent
the successful launches of STELARA®(ustekinumab) and has resulted in the significant reduction of salesin the U.S.
SIMPONI®(golimumab) and the expansion of indications for andEurope.
existing competitors. In 2010, Other Pharmaceutical sales were $9.1 billion, represent-
ing a growth of 6.6% over the prior year. Contributors to the increase
were sales of STELARA®(ustekinumab), SIMPONI®(golimumab),
Major Pharmaceutical Product Revenues*:
________%_ _C_h_an_g_e________
(Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009 2008 ’10 vs. ’09 ’09vs. ’08
REMICADE®(infliximab) $ 4,610 4,304 3,748 7.1% 14.8
PROCRIT®/EPREX®(Epoetin alfa) 1,934 2,245 2,460 (13.9) (8.7)
RISPERDAL®CONSTA®(risperidone) 1,500 1,425 1,309 5.3 8.9
LEVAQUIN®/FLOXIN®(levofloxacin/ofloxacin) 1,357 1,550 1,591 (12.5) (2.6)
CONCERTA®(methylphenidate HCl) 1,319 1,326 1,247 (0.5) 6.3
VELCADE®(bortezomib) 1,080 933 787 15.8 18.6
ACIPHEX®/PARIET®(rabeprazole sodium) 1,006 1,096 1,158 (8.2) (5.4)
TOPAMAX®(topiramate) 538 1,151 2,731 (53.3) (57.9)
Other Pharmaceuticals 9,052 8,490 9,536 6.6 (11.0)
Total $22,396 22,520 24,567 (0.6)% (8.3)
* Prior year amounts have been reclassified to conformto current presentation.
32 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTPREZISTA®(darunavir), INTELENCE®(etravirine), NUCYNTA® bythe divestiture of the Breast Care business in the third quarter
(tapentadol) and INVEGA SUSTENNA®(paliperidone palmitate). of2010.
This growth was partially offset by lower sales of DURAGESIC®/ TheEthicon franchise achieved sales of $4.5 billion in 2010, a
Fentanyl Transdermal (fentanyl transdermal system)and 9.2% increase over the prior year. Thegrowth was attributable to
RISPERDAL®/risperidone oral due to continued genericcompetition. sales of newly acquired products fromAcclarent, Inc. in addition to
During 2010, several new compounds were filed for regulatory growth in the sutures, Mentor, biosurgical, Women’s Health and
approval. These included abiraterone acetate, an investigational Urology, and mesh product lines.
agent for thetreatment of metastatic, advanced prostate cancer TheVision Care franchise achieved sales of $2.7 billion in
which was granted priority review in the U.S. and accepted for accel- 2010,a 6.9% increase over prior year primarily driven by 1-DAY
erated assessment in Europe, and telaprevir, developed in collabora- ACUVUE®TruEye™, ACUVUE®OASYS™for Astigmatism, and
tion with Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated,for hepatitis C 1-DAY ACUVUE®MOIST®, partially offset by lower sales of
which was filed and accepted for accelerated assessment in Europe. reusable lenses. During 2010, the Company and Novartis AG, CIBA
TMC 278 (rilpivirine) for HIV in treatment-naïve patients was VISION Corporation and CIBA VISION AG agreed to resolve all
filedin both theU.S. and Europe. Rivaroxaban, an anti-coagulant pending patent litigation on a worldwide basis enabling the
co-developed with Bayer HealthCare, has been filed in the U.S. for the Company to reenter the markets in France and the Netherlands.
prevention of stroke in patients with atrial fibrulation. The Company Sales in the Cordis franchise were $2.6 billion, a decline of
also responded to the FDA complete response letter for its review of 4.7% versus the prior year. Thedecline reflects lower sales of the
therivaroxaban filing for preventing deep vein thrombosis and pul- CYPHER®Sirolimus-elutingCoronary Stent due to increased global
monary embolism followingtotal knee and hip replacement surgery. competition. Thedecline was partially offset by stronggrowth
Pharmaceutical segment sales in 2009were $22.5 billion, a oftheBiosense Webster business.
decrease of 8.3%from 2008, with an operational decline of 6.1% Sales in theDiabetes Care franchise were $2.5 billion in 2010, a
and the remaining 2.2% due to the negative impact of currency fluc- 1.2% increase over the prior year. This was primarily attributable to
tuations. U.S. sales were $13.0 billion, a decrease of 12.1%. Interna- growth in the U.S. and Asia Pacific region partially offset by a sales
tional sales were $9.5 billion, a decrease of 2.6%, which included decline in Europe.
3.0% operational growth and a decrease of 5.6% resulting from the TheOrtho-Clinical Diagnostics franchise achieved sales of
negative impact of currency fluctuations. $2.1billion in 2010, a 4.6% increase over the prior year. Growth was
primarily attributable to sales of the VITROS®5600 and 3600
MEDICALDEVICESAND DIAGNOSTICS SEGMENT analyzers partially offset by lower sales in donor screening primarily
TheMedical Devices and Diagnostics segmentachieved sales of due to more selective screening for Chagas testing in the U.S.
$24.6 billion in 2010, representing an increase of 4.4%over the TheMedical Devices and Diagnostics segmentachieved sales
prior year, with operational growth of 3.4%and a positive currency of $23.6 billion in 2009, representing an increase of 1.9% over the
impact of 1.0%. U.S. sales were $11.4 billion, an increase of 3.6% prior year, with operational growth of 4.2% and a negative currency
over the prior year. International sales were $13.2 billion, an increase impact of 2.3%. U.S. sales were $11.0 billion, an increase of 4.5%
of 5.0% over the prior year, with growth of 3.0% from operations over the prior year. International sales were $12.6 billion, a decrease
and a positive currency impact of 2.0%. of 0.2%, with growth of 4.0% from operations and a decrease of
TheDePuy franchise achieved sales of $5.6 billion in 2010, a 4.2% resulting from the negative impact of currency fluctuations.
4.0% increase over the prior year. This growth was primarily due
toan increase in the knee and Mitek sports medicine product lines, Analysis of Consolidated Earnings
and outside the U.S., growth of the hip product line. Pressure on
Before Provision for Taxes on Income
pricing continuedas a result of economic trends, however new
product launches and incremental sales of newly acquired products Consolidated earnings before provision for taxes on income
from Micrus Endovascular Corporation have mitigated some of increased by $1.1 billion to $16.9 billion in 2010as compared to the
theimpact. In August 2010, DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. (DePuy) $15.8 billion earned in 2009, an increase of 7.6%. Theincrease was
announced a worldwide voluntary recall of its ASR™XLAcetabular primarily related to lower selling, marketing and administrative
System and DePuyASR™Hip Resurfacing System used in hip expenses due to costcontainment actions resulting from the
replacement surgery, principally sold between 2003 and 2009. restructuring plan initiated and implemented in 2009, incomefrom
The Ethicon Endo-Surgeryfranchise achieved sales of $4.8 bil- litigation settlements and the gain on the divestiture of the Breast
lion in 2010, a 5.9% increase overthe prior year. This wasattributable Care business of Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. This was partially offset
to growth in the endoscopy, Advanced Sterilization, HARMONIC®, by costs associated with product liability expense and the impact of
SurgRx and ENSEAL®product lines. The growth waspartiallyoffset the OTC and DePuyASR™Hip recalls. Additional offsets were lower
Major Medical Devices and Diagnostics Franchise Sales:
_______%__ C_h_a_n_g_e_______
(Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009 2008 ’10 vs. ’09 ’09vs. ’08
DEPUY® $ 5,585 5,372 5,136 4.0% 4.6
ETHICON ENDO-SURGERY® 4,758 4,492 4,286 5.9 4.8
ETHICON® 4,503 4,122 3,840 9.2 7.3
Vision Care 2,680 2,506 2,500 6.9 0.2
CORDIS® 2,552 2,679 2,988 (4.7) (10.3)
Diabetes Care 2,470 2,440 2,535 1.2 (3.7)
ORTHO-CLINICAL DIAGNOSTICS® 2,053 1,963 1,841 4.6 6.6
Total $24,601 23,574 23,126 4.4% 1.9
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 33net selling prices in the Pharmaceutical business due to U.S. health unfavorable product mixattributable to the loss of market exclusiv-
care reform and price reductions in certain Medical Devices and ity for TOPAMAX®contributed to the increase. There was a
Diagnostics businesses. The2009 decrease of 6.9% as compared decrease inthe percent to sales of selling, marketing and adminis-
to $16.9 billion in 2008 was primarily related to lower sales, the trative expenses in 2010compared to the prior year primarily due to
negative impact of product mix, lower interest incomedue to lower costcontainment initiatives principally resulting from the restruc-
rates of interest earned and restructuring charges of $1.2 billion. turing plan implemented in 2009. Thedecrease was partially offset
This was partially offset by lower selling, marketing and administra- by lower netselling prices in the Pharmaceutical business due to
tive expenses due to costcontainment efforts across all the busi- U.S. health care reform and price reductions in certain Medical
nesses. The2008 earnings included purchased in-process research Devices and Diagnostics businesses.
and development (IPR&D) charges of $0.2 billion and increased In 2009, cost of products sold as a percent to sales increased
investment spending in selling, marketing and administrative compared to the prior year primarily due to the continued negative
expenses utilized from the proceeds associated with the divestiture impact of product mix and inventory write-offs associated with
of the Professional Wound Care business of Ethicon, Inc. As a per- therestructuring activity. Additionally, 2008 included some non-
cent to sales, consolidated earnings before provision for taxes on recurring positive items. There was a decrease in the percent to
incomein 2010was 27.5% versus 25.4%in 2009. sales of selling, marketing and administrative expenses in 2009
Thesections that follow highlight the significant components compared to the prior year primarily due to costcontainment efforts
of the changes in consolidated earnings before provision for taxes across all the businesses and the annualized savings recognized
on income. from the 2007 restructuring program. In addition, in 2008 the
Company utilized the proceeds associated with the divestiture of
Cost of Products Sold and Selling, Marketing andAdministrative
the Professional Wound Care business of Ethicon, Inc. to fund
Expenses:Cost of products sold andselling, marketing and adminis-
increased investment spending.
trative expenses as a percent to sales were as follows:
In 2008, cost of products sold as a percent to sales remained
% of Sales 2010 2009 2008 flat to the prior year. Thechange in the mix of businesses, with
Cost of products sold 30.5% 29.8 29.1 higher sales growth in the Consumer business and a slight sales
Percent point increase over the prior year 0.7 0.7 — decline in the Pharmaceutical business, had a negative impact on
the cost of products sold as a percent to sales. In 2008, this was off-
Selling, marketing and administrative expenses 31.5 32.0 33.7
set by manufacturing efficiencies and non-recurring positive items
Percent point (decrease)/increase over the
in 2008 and negative items in 2007. There was an increase in the
prior year (0.5) (1.7) 0.2
percent to sales of selling, marketing and administrative expenses in
In 2010, cost of products sold as a percent to sales increased com- 2008 primarily due to the change in the mix of businesses, whereby
pared to the prior year primarily due to costs associated with the a greater proportion of sales were attributable to the Consumer seg-
impact of the OTC recall and remediation efforts in the Consumer ment, which has higher selling, marketing and administrative spend-
business, lower netselling prices in the Pharmaceutical business ing. Additionally, in 2008 the Company utilized the gain associated
due to U.S. health care reform and price reductions in certain with the divestiture of the Professional Wound Care business of
Medical Devices and Diagnostics businesses. Additionally, Ethicon, Inc. to fund increased investment spending. This was par-
tially offset by ongoingcostcontainment efforts.
Research and Development expense (excluding purchased in-process research and development charges) by segment of business was
asfollows:
________2_0_1_0__________ _________2_0__0_9________ _________2_0_0_8_________
(Dollars in Millions) Amount % of Sales* Amount % of Sales* Amount % of Sales*
Consumer $ 609 4.2% 632 4.0 624 3.9
Pharmaceutical 4,432 19.8 4,591 20.4 5,095 20.7
Medical Devices and Diagnostics 1,803 7.3 1,763 7.5 1,858 8.0
Total research and development expense $6,844 11.1% 6,986 11.3 7,577 11.9
Percent (decrease)/increase over the prior year (2.0)% (7.8) (1.3)
* As a percent to segment sales
Research and Development Expense:Research and development evolving global environment. In the fiscal fourth quarter of 2009,
activities represent a significant part of the Company’s business. theCompany recorded a pre-tax charge of $1.2 billion, ofwhich
Theseexpenditures relate to the development of new products, $113million was included in cost of products sold.
improvement of existing products, technical support of products See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
and compliance with governmental regulations for theprotection additional details related to the restructuring.
ofconsumers and patients. TheCompany remains committed to
Purchased In-Process Research and Development:Beginning in
investing in research and development with the aim of delivering
2009, in accordance with U.S. GAAP for business combinations, pur-
high quality and innovative products.
chased in-process research and development (IPR&D) is no longer
Restructuring:In 2009, the Company announced global restructur- expensed but capitalized and tested for impairment. The Company
ing initiatives that are expected to generate pre-tax, annual cost capitalized approximately $0.2 billion of IPR&D in 2010, primarily
savings of approximately $1.5 billion when fully implemented in associated with the acquisitions of Acclarent, Inc., RespiVert Ltd. and
2011. Theassociated savings has provided additional resources to Micrus Endovascular Corporation. The Company capitalized $1.7 bil-
invest in new growth platforms; ensure the successful launch of the lion of IPR&D in 2009, primarily associated with the acquisitions of
Company’s many new products andcontinued growth of the core Cougar Biotechnology, Inc. and substantially all of the assets and
businesses; and provide flexibility to adjust to the changed and rights of Elan related to its Alzheimer’s Immunotherapy Program.
34 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTIn 2008, the Company recorded a charge for IPR&D of $181 mil- Consumer Segment:In 2010, Consumer segment operating profit
lion before and after tax related to the acquisitions of AmicAB, decreased 5.4%from 2009. Theprimary reasons for thedecrease
SurgRx, Inc., HealthMedia, Inc. and Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. inthe operating profit were lower sales and higher costs associated
HealthMedia, Inc., a privately held company that creates web-based with the recall of certain OTC products andthe suspension of
behavior change interventions, accounted for $7 million before tax production atMcNeil Consumer Healthcare’s Fort Washington,
ofthe IPR&D charges and was included in the operating profit of Pennsylvania facility. In 2009, Consumer segment operating profit
theConsumer segment. The IPR&D charges for all of the following decreased 7.4%from 2008. Theprimary reasons for thedecrease in
acquisitions were included in the operating profit of the Medical operating profit were $369 million of restructuring charges, partially
Devices and Diagnostics segment. Amic AB, a Swedish developer offset by costcontainment initiatives in 2009.
ofin vitro diagnostic technologies for use in point-of-care and
Pharmaceutical Segment:In 2010, Pharmaceutical segment operat-
near-patient settings (outside the physical facilities of the clinical
ing profit increased 10.5% from 2009. Theprimary reasons for the
laboratory), accounted for $40 million before tax of the IPR&D
increase in operating profit were lower manufacturing costs, the
charges. SurgRx, Inc., a privately held developer of the advanced
gain on a divestiture, and benefits fromcost improvement initiatives
bipolar tissue sealing system used in the ENSEAL®family of devices,
related to the restructuring plan implemented in 2009, partially off-
accounted for $7 million before tax of the IPR&D charges. Omrix Bio-
set by $333 million of expense related to litigation matters,
pharmaceuticals, Inc., a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company
increased product liability expense and the impact of the newly
that develops and markets biosurgical and immunotherapy prod-
enacted U.S. health care reform legislation. In 2009, Pharmaceutical
ucts, accounted for $127 million before tax of the IPR&D charges.
segment operating profit decreased 15.7% from 2008. Theprimary
Other (Income) Expense, Net:Other (income) expense, net reasons for thedecrease in operating profit were $496 million of
includes royalty income; gains and losses related to the sale and restructuring charges, $92 million of litigation expense and negative
write-down of certain investments in equity securities held by product mix dueto the loss of market exclusivity for TOPAMAX®
Johnson &Johnson Development Corporation; gains and losses on and RISPERDAL®oral.
the disposal of property, plant and equipment; currency gains and
Medical Devices and Diagnostics Segment:In 2010, Medical
losses; non-controlling interests; and litigation settlements. The
Devices and Diagnostics segment operating profit increased 7.5%
favorable change of $0.2 billion in other (income) expense, net, in
from 2009. The improved operating profit was due to a gain of
2010as compared to 2009, was primarily due to a net gain from
$1.3billion from net litigation matters and the gain on the divestiture
litigation settlements and the gain on the divestiture of businesses
of the Breast Care business recorded in 2010. This was partially offset
partially offset by product liability expense.
by increased product liability expense, $280 million of costs associ-
In 2009, other (income) expense, net included net litigation
ated with the DePuy ASR™Hip recall program and price reductions
settlements of $0.4 billion. In 2008, other (income) expense, net
incertain Medical Devices and Diagnostics businesses. In 2009, the
included incomefrom net litigation settlements and awards of
operating profit in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment
$0.5billion and a gain of $0.5 billion from the divestiture of the
increased 6.5% from 2008. The improved operating profit was due
Professional Wound Care business of Ethicon, Inc.
toa $478 million gain from net litigation settlements, favorable prod-
uct mix, manufacturing efficiencies and cost containment initiatives
OPERATING PROFIT BY SEGMENT
related to selling, marketing and administrative expenses. This was
Operating profits by segment of business were as follows:
partially offset by $321 million in restructuring charges.
Percent of
Interest (Income) Expense:Interest incomein 2010increased by
_____S_e_g_m__e_n_t _S_a_le_s_____
$17 million over the prior year due to higher average cash balances.
(Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009 2010 2009
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $27.7 bil-
Consumer $ 2,342 2,475 16.1% 15.7
lion at the end of 2010, and averaged $23.6 billion as compared to
Pharmaceutical 7,086 6,413 31.6 28.5
the $15.6 billion average cash balance in 2009. Theincrease in the
Medical Devices and
average cash balance was primarily due to cash generated from
Diagnostics 8,272 7,694 33.6 32.6
operating activities and net cash proceeds from litigation matters
Total(1) 17,700 16,582 28.7 26.8
and divestitures.
Less: Expenses not allocated
Interest expense in 2010was relatively flat as compared to
to segments(2) 753 827
2009 due to a lower average rate despite a higher debt balance. The
Earnings before provision
total debt balance at the end of 2010was $16.8 billion as compared
for taxes on income $16,947 15,755 27.5% 25.4
to $14.5 billion atthe end of 2009. Thehigher average debt balance
(1)See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more details. of $15.7 billion in 2010versus $13.5 billion in 2009 was due to
(2)Amounts not allocated to segments include interest (income) expense, non-controlling increased borrowings. TheCompany increased borrowings, capital-
interests, and general corporate (income) expense.
izing on favorable terms in the capital markets. Theproceeds of the
notes were used for general corporate purposes.
Operating Profit 18 Interest incomein 2009 decreased by $271 million ascom-
bySegment
pared to 2008 due to lower rates of interest earned despite higher
(inbillions of dollars) 15
average cash balances. Thecash balance, including marketable
12 securities, was $19.4 billion at the end of 2009, and averaged
Consumer $15.6billion as compared to the $12.2 billion average cash balance
Pharmaceutical 9 in 2008. Theincrease in the average cash balance was primarily
MedicalDevices
andDiagnostics dueto cash generated from operating activities.
6
Interest expense in 2009 increased by $16 million as compared
3 to 2008 due to a higher debtbalance. Thenetdebt balance atthe
end of 2009 was $14.5 billion as compared to $11.9 billion at the end
0 ’08 ’09 ’10 of 2008. Thehigher average debt balance of $13.5 billion in 2009
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 35versus $12.9 billion in 2008 was primarily related to fundingacquisi-
18
tions and investments and the purchase of the Company’s Common
Stock under the ongoing Common Stock repurchase program 1
announced on July 9, 2007.
12
Interest incomein 2008 decreased by $91 million as compared
to 2007 due to lower rates of interest earned despite higher average 9
cash balances. Thecash balance, including marketable securities,
was $12.8 billion at the end of 2008, and averaged $12.2 billion 6
ascompared to the $6.6 billion average cash balance in 2007. The
3
increase in the average cash balance was primarily due to cash
generated from operating activities. 0
’08 ’09 ’10
Interest expense in 2008 increased by $139 million as com-
pared to 2007 due to a higher debtbalance. In the second half of
2007, the Company converted some of its short-term debt to fixed FINANCING AND MARKET RISK
long-term debt at higher interest rates. Thenetdebt balance atthe TheCompany uses financial instruments to manage the impact
end of 2008 was $11.9 billion as compared to $9.5 billion at the end offoreign exchange rate changes on cash flows. Accordingly, the
of 2007. Thehigher debt balance in 2008 was primarily due to Company enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to protect
thepurchase of the Company’s Common Stock under the ongoing the value of certain foreign currency assets and liabilities and to
Common Stock repurchase program announced on July 9, 2007 hedge future foreign currency transactions primarily related to prod-
andto fundacquisitions. uct costs. Gains or losses on these contracts are offset by the gains
or losses on the underlying transactions. A 10% appreciation of the
Provision for Taxes on Income:Theworldwide effective incometax
U.S. Dollar from the January 2, 2011 market rates wouldincrease the
rate was 21.3%in 2010, 22.1% in 2009 and 23.5% in 2008. The
unrealized value of the Company’s forward contracts by $239 mil-
2010tax rate decreased as compared to 2009 due to decreases in
lion. Conversely, a 10% depreciation of the U.S. Dollar from the
taxable incomein higher tax jurisdictions relative to taxable income
January 2, 2011 market rates woulddecrease the unrealized value of
in lower tax jurisdictions and certain U.S. tax adjustments. The
the Company’s forward contracts by $292 million. In either scenario,
2009 tax rate decreased as compared to 2008 due to increases in
the gain or loss on the forward contract wouldbe offset by the gain
taxable incomein lower tax jurisdictions relative to taxable income
or loss on the underlying transaction, and therefore, wouldhave
in higher tax jurisdictions.
noimpact on future anticipated earnings and cash flows.
TheCompany hedges the exposure to fluctuations in currency
Liquidity and Capital Resources exchange rates, and the effect on certain assets and liabilities in
foreign currency, by entering into currency swap contracts. A 1%
LIQUIDITY & CASH FLOWS
Cash and cash equivalents were $19.4 billion at the end of 2010as change in the spread between U.S. and foreign interest rates on the
compared with $15.8billion at the end of 2009. Theprimary sources Company’s interest rate sensitive financial instruments would either
of cash that contributed to the $3.6 billion increase versus the prior increase or decrease the unrealized value of the Company’s swap
year were $16.4 billion of cash generated from operating activities, contracts by approximately $212 million. In either scenario, at matu-
$2.4 billion net proceeds from longandshort-term debt and rity, the gain or loss on the swap contract wouldbe offset by the gain
$0.5billion proceeds from the disposal of assets. Themajor uses of or loss on the underlying transaction, and therefore, wouldhave no
cash were capital spending of $2.4 billion, acquisitions of $1.3 bil- impact on future anticipated cash flows.
lion, net investment purchases of $4.7 billion, dividends to share- TheCompany does not enter into financial instruments for
holders of $5.8 billion, and the repurchase of Common Stock, net of trading or speculative purposes. Further, the Company has a policy
proceeds from the exercise of options, of $1.6 billion. of only entering into contracts with parties that have atleast an “A”
Cash flows from operations were $16.4 billion in 2010. The (or equivalent) credit rating. Thecounterparties to these contracts
major sources of cash flow were net incomeof $13.3 billion, are major financial institutions and there is no significantconcentra-
adjusted for non-cash charges for depreciation, amortization, stock tion of exposure with any one counterparty. Management believes
based compensation and deferred tax provision of $3.9 billion. the risk of loss is remote.
Theremaining changes to operating cash flow were increases in TheCompany has access to substantial sources of funds at
accounts receivable, inventories and other assets. numerous banks worldwide. In September 2010, the Company
In 2010, the Company continuedto have access to liquidity secured a new 364-day Credit Facility. Total credit available to the
through the commercial paper market. For additional details on Company approximates $10 billion, which expires September 22,
borrowings, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2011. Interest charged on borrowings under the credit line agree-
TheCompany anticipates that operating cash flows, existing ment is based on either bids provided by banks, the prime rate or
credit facilities and access to the commercial paper markets will London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR), plus applicable margins.
provide sufficient resources to fund operating needs in 2011. Commitmentfees under the agreement are not material.
Total borrowings at the end of 2010and 2009 were $16.8 bil-
lion and $14.5 billion, respectively. Theincrease in borrowings
between 2010and 2009 was a result of financing for general corpo-
rate purposes and the continuation of the Company’s Common
Stock repurchase program announced in 2007. In 2010, net cash
(cash and current marketable securities, net of debt) was $10.9 bil-
lion compared to net cash of $4.9 billion in 2009. Total debt repre-
sented 22.9% of total capital (shareholders’ equity and total debt)
in 2010and 22.3%of total capital in 2009. Shareholders’ equity
36 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTpershare at the end of 2010was $20.66 compared with $18.37 at disclosures. Actual results may or may not differ from these esti-
year-end 2009, an increase of 12.5%. mates. TheCompany believes that the understanding of certain key
A summary of borrowings can be found in Note 7 to the accountingpolicies and estimates are essential in achieving more
Consolidated Financial Statements. insight into the Company’s operating results and financial condition.
Thesekey accountingpolicies include revenue recognition, income
CONTRACTUALOBLIGATIONS ANDCOMMITMENTS taxes, legal and self-insurance contingencies, valuation of long-lived
TheCompany’s contractual obligations are primarily for leases, debt assets, assumptions used to determine the amounts recorded for
and unfunded retirement plans, with no other significant obliga- pensions and other employee benefitplans and accountingfor
tions. To satisfy theseobligations, the Company will use cash from stockoptions.
operations. Thefollowing table summarizes the Company’s contrac-
Revenue Recognition:TheCompany recognizes revenue fromprod-
tual obligations and their aggregate maturities as of January 2, 2011
uct sales whengoods are shipped or delivered, and title and risk
(see Notes 7, 10 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
ofloss pass to the customer. Provisions for certain rebates, sales
forfurther details):
incentives, trade promotions, coupons, product returns and dis-
Long-term Interest on Unfunded counts to customers are accounted for as reductions in sales in the
Debt Debt Retirement Operating same period the related sales are recorded.
(Dollars in Millions) Obligations Obligations Plans Leases Total
Product discounts granted are based on the terms of arrange-
2011 $ 13 528 54 182 777
ments with direct, indirect and other market participants, as well
2012 644 507 55 159 1,365
asmarket conditions, includingprices charged by competitors.
2013 509 457 59 130 1,155 Rebates, the largest being the Medicaid rebate provision, are esti-
2014 9 444 62 106 621 mated based on contractual terms, historical experience, trend
2015 — 444 69 89 602 analysis and projected market conditions in the various markets
After2015 7,994 5,180 428 74 13,676 served. TheCompany evaluates market conditions for products or
Total $9,169 7,560 727 740 18,196 groups of products primarilythrough the analysis of wholesaler and
other third-party sell-through and market research data, as well as
internally generated information.
For tax matters, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Sales returns are generally estimated and recorded based on
historical sales and returns information. Products that exhibit
SHAREREPURCHASE AND DIVIDENDS
unusual sales or return patterns due to dating, competition or other
On July 9, 2007, the Company announced that its Board of Directors
marketing matters are specifically investigated and analyzed as part
approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to
of the accountingfor sales return accruals.
buy back up to $10.0 billion of the Company’s Common Stock. As of
Sales returns allowances represent a reserve for products that
January 2, 2011, the current stock repurchase program has been
may be returned due to expiration, destruction in thefield,orin spe-
completed. TheCompany repurchased an aggregate of 158.3 million
cificareas, product recall. The returns reserve is based on historical
shares of Johnson & Johnson Common Stock at a cost of $10.0 bil-
return trends by product and by market as a percent to gross sales.
lion. TheCompany funded the share repurchase program through a
In accordance with the Company’s accountingpolicies, the Company
combination of available cash and debt. In addition, the Company
generally issues credit to customers for returned goods. The
has an annual program to repurchase shares for use in employee
Company’s sales return reserves are accounted for in accordance
stock and incentive plans.
with the U.S. GAAP guidance for revenue recognition when right of
TheCompany increased its dividend in 2010for the 48th con-
return exists. Sales return reserves are recorded at full sales value.
secutive year. Cash dividends paid were $2.110 per share in 2010,
Sales returns in the Consumer andPharmaceutical segments are
compared with dividends of $1.930 per share in 2009 and $1.795
almost exclusively not resalable. Sales returns for certain franchises
per share in 2008. Thedividends were distributed as follows:
in theMedical Devices and Diagnostics segmentare typically resal-
2010 2009 2008 able but are not material. TheCompany rarely exchanges products
First quarter $0.490 0.460 0.415 from inventory for returned products. Thesales returns reserve for
Second quarter 0.540 0.490 0.460 the total Company has ranged between 1.0% and 1.2% of annual net
Third quarter 0.540 0.490 0.460 trade sales during the prior three fiscal reporting years 2008–2010.
Promotional programs,such as product listing allowances and
Fourth quarter 0.540 0.490 0.460
cooperative advertising arrangements, are recorded in the year
Total $2.110 1.930 1.795
incurred. Continuingpromotional programs include coupons and
volume-based sales incentive programs. Theredemption cost of
On January 3, 2011, the Board of Directors declared a regular quar-
consumer coupons is based on historical redemption experience by
terly cash dividend of $0.540 per share, payable on March 15, 2011,
product and value. Volume-based incentive programs are based on
to shareholders of record as of March 1, 2011. TheCompany expects
estimated sales volumes for theincentive period and are recorded
to continuethepractice of paying regular cash dividends.
as products are sold. TheCompany also earns service revenue for
co-promotion of certain products. For all years presented, service
Other Information revenues were less than 2% of total revenues and are included in
sales to customers. Thesearrangements are evaluated to determine
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
Management’s discussion and analysis of results of operations the appropriate amounts to bedeferred.
andfinancial condition are based on the Company’s consolidated In addition, the Company enters into collaboration arrange-
financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with ments, which contain multiple revenue generating activities. The
accountingprinciples generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). The revenue for thesearrangements is recognized as each activity is
preparation of these financial statements requires that manage- performed or delivered, based on the relative fair value. Upfront
mentmake estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts feesreceived as part of these arrangements are deferred and recog-
reported for revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and other related nized as revenue earned over the obligation period. See Note 1 to
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 37theConsolidated Financial Statements for additional disclosures MEDICALDEVICESAND DIAGNOSTICS SEGMENT
oncollaborations.
Balance at Balance at
Reasonably likely changes to assumptions used to calculate
Beginning Payments/ End
theaccruals for rebates, returns and promotions are not anticipated (Dollars in Millions) of Period Accruals Other of Period
to have a material effect on the financial statements. TheCompany 2010
currently discloses the impactof changes to assumptions in the Accrued rebates(1) $454 2,363 (2,322) 495
quarterly or annual filing in which there is a material financial Accrued returns 220 334 (353) 201
statement impact.
Accrued promotions 73 111 (134) 50
Below are tables thatshow the progression of accrued rebates,
Subtotal $747 2,808 (2,809) 746
returns, promotions, reserve for doubtful accounts and reserve for
Reserve for doubtful accounts 143 33 (38) 138
cash discounts by segment of business for the fiscal years ended
Reserve for cash discounts 32 484 (481) 35
January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010.
Total $922 3,325 (3,328) 919
CONSUMER SEGMENT 2009
Balance at Balance at Accrued rebates(1) $416 2,229 (2,191) 454
Beginning Payments/ End Accrued returns 189 74 (43) 220
(Dollars in Millions) of Period Accruals Other of Period
Accrued promotions 47 120 (94) 73
2010
Subtotal $652 2,423 (2,328) 747
Accrued rebates(1) $121 361 (351) 131
Reserve for doubtful accounts 109 50 (16) 143
Accrued returns 127 156 (138) 145
Reserve for cash discounts 34 416 (418) 32
Accrued promotions 272 2,418 (2,396) 294
Total $795 2,889 (2,762) 922
Subtotal $520 2,935 (2,885) 570
Reserve for doubtful accounts 107 6 (56) 57 (1)Includes reserve for customerrebates of $331 million at January 2,2011 and $311 million
at January 3, 2010, recorded as a contra asset.
Reserve for cash discounts 21 249 (249) 21
Total $648 3,190 (3,190) 648 Income Taxes:Incometaxes are recorded based on amounts
refundable or payable for thecurrent year and include the results of
2009
any difference between U.S. GAAP accounting and tax reporting,
Accrued rebates(1) $131 380 (390) 121
recorded as deferred tax assets or liabilities. TheCompany esti-
Accrued returns 115 134 (122) 127
mates deferred tax assets and liabilities based on current tax regula-
Accrued promotions 202 1,996 (1,926) 272
tions and rates. Changes in tax laws and rates may affect recorded
Subtotal $448 2,510 (2,438) 520 deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future. Management
Reserve for doubtful accounts 110 23 (26) 107 believes that changes in these estimates wouldnot have a material
Reserve for cash discounts 22 285 (286) 21 effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or
Total $580 2,818 (2,750) 648 financial position.
In 2007, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, the Company adopted
(1)Includes reserve for customerrebates of $50 million atJanuary2, 2011 and $46 million at
the standard related to accountingfor uncertainty in incometaxes.
January3,2010, recorded as a contra asset.
TheCodification prescribes a recognition threshold and measure-
PHARMACEUTICAL SEGMENT ment attribute for the financial statement recognition and measure-
ment of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.
Balance at Balance at TheCodification also provides guidance on derecognition, classifi-
Beginning Payments/ End
cation and other matters. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial
(Dollars in Millions) of Period Accruals Other of Period
2010 Statements for further information regarding incometaxes.
At January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010, the cumulative
Accrued rebates(1)(2) $1,064 4,768 (4,312) 1,520
amounts of undistributed international earnings were approximately
Accrued returns 342 27 (75) 294
$37.0 billion and $32.2 billion, respectively. TheCompany intends
Accrued promotions 84 135 (136) 83
tocontinue to reinvest its undistributed international earnings to
Subtotal $1,490 4,930 (4,523) 1,897
expand its international operations; therefore, no U.S. tax expense
Reserve for doubtful accounts 83 91 (29) 145 has been recorded with respectto the undistributed portion not
Reserve for cash discounts 48 379 (373) 54 intended for repatriation.
Total $1,621 5,400 (4,925) 2,096
Legal and Self Insurance Contingencies:The Company records
2009 accruals for various contingencies including legal proceedings and
Accrued rebates(1) $1,261 3,975 (4,172) 1,064 product liability cases as these arise in the normal course of business.
Accrued returns 490 147 (295) 342 The accruals are based on management’s judgment as to the proba-
bility of losses and, where applicable, actuarially determined esti-
Accrued promotions 107 330 (353) 84
mates. Additionally, theCompany records insurance receivable
Subtotal $1,858 4,452 (4,820) 1,490
amounts from third-party insurers when recovery is probable. As
Reserve for doubtful accounts 48 37 (2) 83
appropriate, reserves against these receivables are recorded for esti-
Reserve for cash discounts 23 462 (437) 48
mated amounts that may not be collected from third-party insurers.
Total $1,929 4,951 (5,259) 1,621 The Company follows the provisions of U.S. GAAP when record-
ing litigation related contingencies. A liability is recorded when a loss
(1)Includes reserve for customerrebates of $320 million at January 2, 2011 and$372 million
at January 3, 2010, recorded as a contra asset. is probable and can be reasonably estimated. The best estimate of
(2)Includes additional sales rebates to Medicaid managed care organizations as a result of aloss within arange is accrued; however, if no estimate in the range
health care reformlegislation.
is better than any other, the minimum amount is accrued.
38 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTLong-Livedand Intangible Assets:TheCompany assesses Changes in the behavior and spending patterns of purchasers
changesin economic conditions andmakes assumptions regarding of health care products and services, including delaying medical
estimated future cash flows in evaluating the value of the procedures, rationing prescription medications, reducing the
Company’s property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible frequency of physician visits and foregoinghealth care insurance
assets. As these assumptions and estimates may change over coverage, as a result of the current global economic downturn,
time,itmay or may not be necessary for theCompany to record maycontinue to impact the Company’s businesses.
impairment charges. TheCompany also operates in an environment which has
becomeincreasingly hostile to intellectual property rights. Generic
Employee Benefit Plans:TheCompany sponsors various retirement
drug firms have filed Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDAs)
and pension plans, including defined benefit, defined contribution
seeking to market generic forms of mostof theCompany’s key phar-
and termination indemnity plans, which cover most employees
maceutical products, prior to expiration of the applicable patents
worldwide. These plans are based on assumptions for the discount
covering those products. In the event the Company is not successful
rate, expected return on plan assets, expected salaryincreases and
in defending the patent claims challenged in ANDA filings, the
health care cost trend rates. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Finan-
generic firms will then introduce generic versions of the product at
cial Statements for further details on these rates and the effect a
issue, resulting in the potential forsubstantial market share and
rate change wouldhave on the Company’s results of operations.
revenue losses for that product. Forfurther information seethe
Stock Based Compensation:TheCompany recognizes compensa- discussion on “Litigation Against Filers of Abbreviated New Drug
tion expense associated with the issuance of equity instruments to Applications” in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
employees for their services. Thefair value of each award is esti-
mated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option valuation LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
model and is expensed in the financial statements over the vesting TheCompany is involved in numerous product liability cases in the
period. Theinput assumptions used in determining fair value are United States, many of which concern alleged adverse reactions to
theexpected life, expected volatility, risk-free rate and the dividend drugs and medical devices. Thedamages claimed are substantial,
yield. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for and while the Company is confident of the adequacy of the warnings
additional information. and instructions for usethat accompany such products, itis not
feasible to predictthe ultimate outcomeof litigation. However, the
NEWACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Company believes that in most cases product liability will be sub-
Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for recently stantially covered by existing amounts accrued in the Company’s
adopted accountingpronouncements and recently issued account- balance sheet under its self-insurance program.
ing pronouncements not yet adopted as of January 2, 2011. TheCompany is also involved in a number of patent, trademark
and other lawsuits, as well as investigations, incidental to its busi-
ECONOMIC AND MARKETFACTORS ness. Theultimate legal and financial liability of the Company in
TheCompany is aware that its products are used in an environment respectto all claims, lawsuits and proceedings referred to above
where, for more than adecade, policymakers, consumers and busi- cannot be reasonably estimated. However, in the Company’s opin-
nesses have expressed concerns about the rising cost of health care. ion, basedon its examination of these matters, its experience to
In response to these concerns, the Company has a long-standing date, and discussions with counsel, theultimate outcomeof legal
policy of pricing products responsibly. For theperiod 2000–2010, in proceedings, net of liabilities already accrued in the Company’s
the United States, the weighted average compound annual growth balance sheet, is not expected to be material to the Company’s
rate of the Company’s net price increases for health care products financial position, although the resolution in any reporting period
(prescription and over-the-counter drugs, hospitaland professional ofone or more of these matters couldhave a material impacton
products) was below the U.S. Consumer Price Index (CPI). theCompany’s results of operations and cash flows for that period.
Inflation rates continue to have an effect on worldwide See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
economies and, consequently, on the way companies operate. The further information regarding legal proceedings.
Company accounted for operations in Venezuela as highly inflation-
ary in 2010, as the prior three-year cumulative inflation rate has sur- COMMON STOCK MARKET PRICES
passed 100%. In the face of increasing costs, the Company strives TheCompany’s Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock
to maintain its profit margins through cost reduction programs, Exchange under the symbol JNJ. Thecomposite market price ranges
productivity improvements and periodic price increases. for Johnson &Johnson Common Stock during 2010and 2009 were:
TheCompany is exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange
rates. A 1% change in the value of the U.S. Dollar as compared to
_________2_0_10_________ ________2_0_0__9________
High Low High Low
allforeign currencies in which the Company had sales, incomeor
First quarter $65.95 61.89 61.00 46.25
expense in 2010wouldhave increased or decreased the translation
Second quarter 66.20 57.55 56.65 50.12
of foreign sales by approximately $300 million and incomeby
$65million. Third quarter 62.70 56.86 62.47 55.71
TheCompany faces various worldwide health care changes Fourth quarter 64.92 61.25 65.41 58.78
that may continue to result in pricing pressures that include health Year-end close $61.85 64.41
care costcontainment andgovernment legislation relating to sales,
promotions andreimbursement.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 39Cautionary Factors That May Affect
Future Results
This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements. Forward- Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general
looking statements do notrelate strictly to historical or current facts industry conditions andcompetition; economic factors, such as
and anticipate results based on management’s plans that are sub- interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations; technological
jectto uncertainty. Forward-looking statements may be identified advances, new products andpatents attained by competitors; chal-
bythe use of words such as “plans,” “expects,” “will,” “anticipates,” lenges inherent in new product development, including obtaining
“estimates” and other words of similar meaning in conjunction with, regulatory approvals; challenges to patents; significantlitigation
among other things, discussions of future operations, financial adverse to the Company; impact of business combinations; financial
performance, the Company’s strategyfor growth, product develop- distress and bankruptcies experienced by significant customers
ment, regulatory approval, market position andexpenditures. andsuppliers; changes to governmental laws and regulations and
Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations U.S. and foreign health care reforms; trends toward healthcare cost
of future events. TheCompany cannot guarantee that any forward- containment; increased scrutiny of the healthcare industry by gov-
looking statement will be accurate, although the Company believes ernment agencies; changes in behavior and spending patterns of
that it has been reasonable in its expectations and assumptions. purchasers of healthcare products and services; manufacturing
Investors should realize that if underlying assumptions prove inac- difficulties or delays; product efficacy orsafety concerns resulting
curate or that unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual inproduct recalls or regulatory action.
results couldvary materially from the Company’s expectations and TheCompany’s report on Form 10-K for theyear ended
projections. Investors are therefore cautioned not to place undue January2, 2011 includes, in Exhibit 99, a discussion of additional
reliance on any forward-looking statements. TheCompany does not factors that couldcause actual results to differ from expectations.
undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of TheCompany notes these factors as permitted by the Private
new information or future events or developments. Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
40 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTConsolidated Balance Sheets Johnson & Johnson and Subsidiaries
AtJanuary 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010(Dollars in Millions Except Share and PerShare Data) (Note 1) 2010 2009
Assets
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents (Notes 1 and 2) $ 19,355 15,810
Marketable securities (Notes 1 and 2) 8,303 3,615
Accounts receivable trade, less allowances for doubtful accounts $340 (2009, $333) 9,774 9,646
Inventories (Notes 1 and 3) 5,378 5,180
Deferred taxes on income(Note 8) 2,224 2,793
Prepaid expenses and other receivables 2,273 2,497
Total current assets 47,307 39,541
Property, plant and equipment, net (Notes 1 and 4) 14,553 14,759
Intangible assets, net (Notes 1 and 5) 16,716 16,323
Goodwill(Notes 1 and 5) 15,294 14,862
Deferred taxes on income(Note 8) 5,096 5,507
Other assets 3,942 3,690
Total assets $102,908 94,682
Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity
Current liabilities
Loans andnotes payable (Note 7) $ 7,617 6,318
Accounts payable 5,623 5,541
Accrued liabilities 4,100 4,625
Accrued rebates, returns and promotions 2,512 2,028
Accrued compensation and employee related obligations 2,642 2,777
Accrued taxes on income 578 442
Total current liabilities 23,072 21,731
Long-term debt (Note 7) 9,156 8,223
Deferred taxes on income(Note 8) 1,447 1,424
Employee related obligations (Notes 9 and 10) 6,087 6,769
Other liabilities 6,567 5,947
Total liabilities 46,329 44,094
Shareholders’ equity
Preferred stock — without par value
(authorized and unissued 2,000,000 shares) — —
Common stock — par value $1.00 per share (Note 12)
(authorized 4,320,000,000 shares; issued 3,119,843,000 shares) 3,120 3,120
Accumulated other comprehensive income(Note 13) (3,531) (3,058)
Retained earnings 77,773 70,306
77,362 70,368
Less: common stock held in treasury, at cost (Note 12)
(381,746,000 shares and 365,522,000 shares) 20,783 19,780
Total shareholders’ equity 56,579 50,588
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $102,908 94,682
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 41Consolidated Statements of Earnings Johnson & Johnson and Subsidiaries
(Dollars in Millions Except PerShare Figures) (Note 1) 2010 2009 2008
Sales to customers $61,587 61,897 63,747
Cost of products sold 18,792 18,447 18,511
Gross profit 42,795 43,450 45,236
Selling, marketing and administrative expenses 19,424 19,801 21,490
Research and development expense 6,844 6,986 7,577
Purchased in-process research and development (Note 20) — — 181
Interest income (107) (90) (361)
Interest expense, net of portion capitalized (Note 4) 455 451 435
Other (income) expense, net (768) (526) (1,015)
Restructuring (Note 22) — 1,073 —
Earnings before provision for taxes on income 16,947 15,755 16,929
Provision for taxes on income(Note 8) 3,613 3,489 3,980
Net earnings $13,334 12,266 12,949
Basic net earningspershare (Notes 1 and 15) $ 4.85 4.45 4.62
Diluted net earnings per share (Notes 1 and 15) $ 4.78 4.40 4.57
Cash dividends per share $ 2.110 1.930 1.795
Basic average shares outstanding (Notes 1 and 15) 2,751.4 2,759.5 2,802.5
Dilutedaverage shares outstanding (Notes 1 and 15) 2,788.8 2,789.1 2,835.6
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
42 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTConsolidated Statements of Equity Johnson & Johnson and Subsidiaries
Accumulated
Other Treasury
Comprehensive Retained Comprehensive Common Stock Stock
(Dollars in Millions) (Note 1) Total Income Earnings Income Issued Amount Amount
Balance, December 30, 2007 $43,319 55,280 (693) 3,120 (14,388)
Net earnings 12,949 12,949 12,949
Cash dividendspaid (5,024) (5,024)
Employee compensation
and stock option plans 2,180 175 2,005
Conversion of subordinated debentures — (1) 1
Repurchase of common stock (6,651) (6,651)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
Currency translation adjustment (2,499) (2,499) (2,499)
Unrealized losses on securities (59) (59) (59)
Employee benefit plans (1,870) (1,870) (1,870)
Gains on derivatives & hedges 166 166 166
Reclassification adjustment (27)
Total comprehensive income 8,660
Balance, December 28, 2008 $42,511 63,379 (4,955) 3,120 (19,033)
Net earnings 12,266 12,266 12,266
Cash dividendspaid (5,327) (5,327)
Employee compensation
and stock option plans 1,402 25 1,377
Conversion of subordinated debentures 2 (4) 6
Repurchase of common stock (2,130) (2,130)
Other (33) (33)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
Currency translation adjustment 1,363 1,363 1,363
Unrealized losses on securities (55) (55) (55)
Employee benefit plans 565 565 565
Gains on derivatives & hedges 24 24 24
Total comprehensive income 14,163
Balance, January 3, 2010 $50,588 70,306 (3,058) 3,120 (19,780)
Net earnings 13,334 13,334 13,334
Cash dividendspaid (5,804) (5,804)
Employee compensation
and stock option plans 1,730 (62) 1,792
Conversion of subordinated debentures 1 (1) 2
Repurchase of common stock (2,797) (2,797)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
Currency translation adjustment (461) (461) (461)
Unrealized gains on securities 54 54 54
Employee benefit plans (21) (21) (21)
Losses on derivatives & hedges (45) (45) (45)
Total comprehensive income 12,861
Balance, January 2, 2011 $56,579 77,773 (3,531) 3,120 (20,783)
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 43Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Johnson & Johnson and Subsidiaries
(Dollars in Millions) (Note 1) 2010 2009 2008
Cash flows from operating activities
Net earnings $13,334 12,266 12,949
Adjustments to reconcilenet earnings to cash flows from
operating activities:
Depreciation andamortization of property and intangibles 2,939 2,774 2,832
Stock basedcompensation 614 628 627
Purchased in-process research and development — — 181
Deferred tax provision 356 (436) 22
Accounts receivable allowances 12 58 86
Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects fromacquisitions:
(Increase)/decrease in accounts receivable (207) 453 (736)
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (196) 95 (101)
Increase/(decrease) in accounts payable and accrued liabilities 20 (507) (272)
(Increase)/decrease in other current and non-current assets (574) 1,209 (1,600)
Increase in other current and non-current liabilities 87 31 984
Net cash flows from operating activities 16,385 16,571 14,972
Cash flows from investing activities
Additions to property, plant and equipment (2,384) (2,365) (3,066)
Proceeds from the disposal of assets 524 154 785
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired (Note 20) (1,269) (2,470) (1,214)
Purchases of investments (15,788) (10,040) (3,668)
Sales of investments 11,101 7,232 3,059
Other (primarily intangibles) (38) (109) (83)
Net cash used by investing activities (7,854) (7,598) (4,187)
Cash flows from financingactivities
Dividends to shareholders (5,804) (5,327) (5,024)
Repurchase of common stock (2,797) (2,130) (6,651)
Proceeds from short-term debt 7,874 9,484 8,430
Retirement of short-term debt (6,565) (6,791) (7,319)
Proceeds from long-term debt 1,118 9 1,638
Retirement of long-term debt (32) (219) (24)
Proceeds from the exercise of stock options/excess tax benefits 1,226 882 1,486
Net cash used by financing activities (4,980) (4,092) (7,464)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (6) 161 (323)
Increase in cash and cash equivalents 3,545 5,042 2,998
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year (Note 1) 15,810 10,768 7,770
Cash and cash equivalents, endof year (Note 1) $19,355 15,810 10,768
Supplemental cash flow data
Cash paid during the year for:
Interest $ 491 533 525
Incometaxes 2,442 2,363 4,068
Supplemental schedule of noncash investing and financing activities
Treasury stock issued for employee compensation and
stock option plans, net of cash proceeds $ 673 541 593
Conversion of debt 1 2 —
Acquisitions
Fair value of assets acquired $ 1,321 3,345 1,328
Fair value of liabilities assumed and non-controlling interests (52) (875) (114)
Net cash paid for acquisitions $ 1,269 2,470 1,214
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
44 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies During the fiscal first quarter of 2010, the Company adopted
PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION the FASB standard related to variable interest entities. Theadoption
Theconsolidated financial statements include the accounts of this standard did nothave an impact on the Company’s results of
ofJohnson &Johnson and subsidiaries (the“Company”). Inter- operations, cash flows or financial position.
company accounts and transactions are eliminated. During the fiscal first quarter of 2010, the Company adopted
the new accountingguidance on fair value measurements and
DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY AND BUSINESS SEGMENTS disclosures. This guidance requires the Company to disclosethe
TheCompany has approximately 114,000 employees worldwide amount of significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 inputs
engaged in the research and development, manufacture and sale of and the reasons for thesetransfers as well as the reasons for any
a broad range of products in thehealth care field. TheCompany transfers in or out of Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. In addition,
conducts business in virtually all countries of the worldand its pri- the guidance clarifies certain existing disclosure requirements.
mary focus is on products related to human health and well-being. Theadoption of this standard did nothave a material impact on the
TheCompany is organized into three business segments: Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position.
Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics.
TheConsumer segment manufactures and markets a broad range of RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS,
products usedin the baby care, skin care, oral care, woundcare and NOT ADOPTED ASOF JANUARY 2, 2011
women’s health care fields, as well as nutritional and over-the- During the fiscal second quarter of 2010the FASB issued an
counter pharmaceutical products andwellness and prevention plat- accounting standard update related to revenue recognition under
forms. Theseproducts are marketed to the general public and sold the milestone method. Theobjective of the accounting standard
both to retail outlets and distributors throughout the world. The update is to provide guidance on defining a milestone and determin-
Pharmaceutical segment includes products in the following areas: ing when it may be appropriate to applythe milestone method of
anti-infective, antipsychotic, contraceptive, dermatology, gastroin- revenue recognition for research or development transactions.
testinal, hematology, immunology, neurology, oncology, pain man- Thisguidance was effective on a prospective basis for milestones
agement and virology. Theseproducts are distributed directly to achieved in fiscal years, and interim periods within those years,
retailers, wholesalers and health care professionals for prescription beginning on or after June 15, 2010. Theadoption of this standard is
use. TheMedical Devices and Diagnostics segmentincludes a not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s results of
broad range of products distributed to wholesalers, hospitals and operations, cash flows or financial position.
retailers used principally in the professional fields by physicians,
nurses, therapists, hospitals, diagnostic laboratories and clinics. CASH EQUIVALENTS
Theseproducts include Biosense Webster’s electrophysiology prod- TheCompany considers securities with maturities of three months
ucts; Cordis’ circulatory disease management products; DePuy’s or less, when purchased, to becashequivalents.
orthopaedic joint reconstruction, spinal care, neurological and
sports medicine products; Ethicon’s surgical care, aesthetics and INVESTMENTS
women’s health products; Ethicon Endo-Surgery’s minimally Short-term marketable securities are carried at cost, which approxi-
invasive surgical products andadvanced sterilization products; mates fair value. Investments classified as available-for-sale are
LifeScan’s blood glucose monitoring andinsulin delivery products; carried at estimated fair value with unrealized gains and losses
Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics’ professional diagnostic products and recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive
Vistakon’s disposable contact lenses. income. Long-term debt securities that theCompany has the ability
and intent to hold until maturity are carried at amortized cost.
NEWACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Management determines the appropriate classification of its invest-
RECENTLY ADOPTED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS ment in debt and equity securities at the time of purchase and
During the fiscal first quarter of 2010the Company adopted the re-evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date. The
Financial AccountingStandards Board (FASB) guidance and Company periodically reviews its investments in equity securities
amendments related to the criteria for separating consideration for impairment and adjusts these investments to their fair value
inmultiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. Theguidance when a decline in market value is deemed to beother than tempo-
(a)provides principles and application guidance on whether multi- rary. If losses on these securities are considered to beother than
ple deliverables exist, how the arrangement should be separated, temporary, the loss is recognized in earnings.
and the consideration allocated; (b) requires an entity to allocate
revenue in an arrangement using estimated selling prices of deliver-
ables if a vendor does nothave vendor-specific objective evidence
or third-party evidence of selling price; and (c) eliminates the use of
the residual method and requires an entity to allocate the revenue
usingthe relative selling price method. Theadoption did not have
amaterial impact on the Company’s results of operations, cash
flowsor financial position; however it expanded the disclosures for
multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 45PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND DEPRECIATION reserves are accounted for in accordance with U.S. GAAP guidance
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. TheCompany for revenue recognition when right of return exists. Sales return
utilizes the straight-line methodof depreciation over the estimated reserves are recorded at full sales value. Sales returns in the Con-
useful lives of the assets: sumer and Pharmaceutical segments are almost exclusively not
resalable. Sales returns for certain franchises in the Medical Devices
Building and building equipment 20–40 years
and Diagnostics segment are typically resalable but are not mate-
Land and leasehold improvements 10–20years
rial. TheCompany rarely exchanges products from inventory for
Machinery and equipment 2–13 years
returned products. Thesales returns reserve for the total Company
TheCompany capitalizes certain computer software and develop- has ranged between 1.0% and 1.2% of annual sales to customers
ment costs, included in machinery andequipment, when incurred during the prior three fiscal reporting years 2008–2010.
inconnection with developing or obtaining computer software for Promotional programs,such as product listing allowances and
internal use. Capitalized software costs are amortized over the cooperative advertising arrangements, are recorded in the year
estimated useful lives of the software, which generally range from incurred. Continuingpromotional programs include coupons and
3to 8 years. volume-based sales incentive programs. Theredemption cost of
TheCompany reviews long-lived assets to assess recoverability consumer coupons is based on historical redemption experience by
using undiscounted cash flows. When certain events or changes in product and value. Volume-based incentive programs are based on
operating or economic conditions occur, an impairment assessment the estimated sales volumes for theincentive period and are
may be performed on the recoverability of the carrying value of recorded as products are sold. TheCompany also earns service rev-
these assets. If the asset is determined to beimpaired, the loss is enue for co-promotion of certain products and includes it in sales
measured based on the difference between the asset’s fair value tocustomers. Thesearrangements are evaluated to determine the
andits carryingvalue. If quoted market prices are not available, the appropriate amounts to bedeferred.
Company will estimate fair value using a discounted value of
estimated future cash flows. SHIPPING ANDHANDLING
Shippingand handling costs incurred were $945 million, $964 mil-
REVENUE RECOGNITION lion and $1,017 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and
TheCompany recognizes revenue fromproduct sales when the are included in selling, marketing and administrative expense. The
goods are shipped or delivered and title and risk of loss pass to the amount of revenue received for shipping andhandlingis less than
customer. Provisions for certain rebates, sales incentives, trade pro- 0.5% of sales to customers for all periods presented.
motions, coupons, product returns and discounts to customers are
accounted for as reductions in sales in thesame period the related INVENTORIES
sales are recorded. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market determined by
Product discounts granted are based on the terms of arrange- the first-in, first-out method.
ments with direct, indirect and other market participants, as well
asmarket conditions, includingprices charged by competitors. INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL
Rebates, the largest being the Medicaid rebate provision, are esti- Theauthoritative literature on U.S. GAAP requires that goodwill
mated based on contractual terms, historical experience, trend andintangibleassets with indefinite lives be assessed annually for
analysis and projected market conditions in the various markets impairment. TheCompany completed the annual impairment test
served. TheCompany evaluates market conditions for products or for 2010in the fiscalfourth quarter and no impairment was deter-
groups of products primarilythrough the analysis of wholesaler and mined. Future impairment tests will be performedannually in the
other third-party sell-through and market research data, as well as fiscal fourth quarter, or sooner if a triggering eventoccurs.
internally generated information. Intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be
Sales returns are generally estimated and recorded based on amortized over their useful lives, and are reviewed for impairment
historical sales and returns information. Products that exhibit when warranted by economic conditions. See Note 5 for further
unusual sales or return patterns due to dating, competition or other details on Intangible Assets and Goodwill.
marketing matters are specifically investigated and analyzed as part
of the accountingfor sales return accruals. Sales returns allowances FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
represent a reserve for products that may be returned due to expira- As required by U.S. GAAP, all derivative instruments are recorded
tion, destruction in the field, or in specific areas, product recall. on thebalance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of
Thereturns reserve is based on historical return trends by product derivatives are recorded each period in current earnings or other
and by market as a percent to gross sales. In accordance with the comprehensive income, depending on whether the derivative is
Company’s accountingpolicies, the Company generally issues credit designated as part of a hedge transaction, and if so, the type of
to customers for returned goods. TheCompany’s sales return hedge transaction.
46 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTTheCompany documents all relationships between hedged contract development services is notcentral to the Company’s
items and derivatives. Theoverall risk management strategy operations. In general, the incomestatement presentation for
includes reasons for undertaking hedge transactions and entering thesecollaborations is as follows:
into derivatives. Theobjectives of this strategyare: (1) minimize
Nature/Type of Collaboration Statement of Earnings Presentation
foreign currency exposure’s impact on the Company’s financial
Third-party sale of product Sales to customers
performance; (2) protect the Company’s cash flow fromadverse
Royalties/milestones paidto
movements in foreign exchange rates; (3) ensure the appropriate-
collaborative partner
ness of financial instruments; and (4) manage the enterprise risk
(post-regulatory approval)* Cost of goods sold
associated with financial institutions. See Note 6 for additional
Royalties received from collaborative partner Other income (expense), net
information on Financial Instruments.
Upfront payments & milestones
paid to collaborative partner
PRODUCT LIABILITY
(pre-regulatory approval) Research and development expense
Accruals for product liability claims are recorded, on an undis-
Research and development payments
counted basis, when it is probable that a liability has been incurred
to collaborative partner Research and development expense
and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated based
Research and development
on existing information. Theaccruals are adjusted periodically as
payments received from
additional information becomes available. As a result of costand
collaborative partner Reduction of research and development expense
availability factors, effective November 1, 2005, the Company
*Milestonesare capitalized as intangible assetsand amortized to cost of goods sold over
ceased purchasing third-party product liability insurance. Based on
the usefullife.
the availability of prior coverage, receivables for insurance recover-
ies related to product liability claims are recorded on an undis-
ADVERTISING
counted basis, when it is probablethat a recovery will be realized. Costs associated with advertising are expensed in the year incurred
and are included in the selling, marketing and administrative
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT expenses. Advertising expenses worldwide, which are comprised of
Research and development expenses are expensed as incurred. television, radio, print media and Internetadvertising, were $2.5 bil-
Upfront and milestone payments made to third-parties in connec- lion, $2.4 billion and $2.9 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
tion with research and development collaborations are expensed as
incurred up to the point of regulatory approval. Payments made to
INCOME TAXES
third parties subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized TheCompany intends to continue to reinvest its undistributed
andamortized over the remaining useful life of the related product. international earnings to expand its international operations; there-
Amounts capitalized for such payments are included in other fore, no U.S. tax expense has been recorded with respectto the
intangibles, net of accumulated amortization. undistributed portion not intended for repatriation. At January 2,
TheCompany enters into collaborative arrangements, typically 2011 and January 3, 2010, the cumulative amount of undistributed
with other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, to develop international earnings was approximately $37.0 billion and
and commercialize drug candidates or intellectual property. These $32.2billion, respectively.
arrangements typically involve two (or more) parties who are active Deferred incometaxes are recognized for tax consequences
participants in the collaboration and are exposed to significant risks oftemporary differences by applying enacted statutory tax rates,
and rewards dependenton the commercial success of the activities. applicable to future years, to differences between the financial
Thesecollaborations usually involve various activities by one or reporting and the tax basis of existing assets and liabilities.
more parties, including research and development, marketing and
selling and distribution. Often, these collaborations require upfront,
NET EARNINGSPER SHARE
milestone and royalty or profit share payments, contingentupon the Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net earnings avail-
occurrence of certain future events linked to the success of the asset able to common shareholders by the weighted average number of
in development. Amounts due fromcollaborative partners related to common shares outstanding for theperiod. Diluted earnings per
development activities are generally reflected as a reduction of share reflects the potential dilution thatcouldoccur if securities
research and development expense because the performance of were exercised or converted into common stock using thetreasury
stock method.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 47USE OF ESTIMATES As of January3, 2010, current marketable securities consisted
Thepreparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity of $3,434 million and$181 million of government securities and
with accountingprinciples generally accepted in the U.S. requires obligations and corporate debtsecurities, respectively.
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the Fair value of government securities and obligations and corpo-
amounts reported. Estimates are used when accountingfor sales rate debtsecurities were estimated using quoted broker prices in
discounts, rebates, allowances and incentives, product liabilities, active markets.
incometaxes, depreciation, amortization, employee benefits, con- TheCompany invests its excess cash in both deposits with
tingencies and intangible asset and liability valuations. For instance, major banks throughout the worldand other high-quality money
in determining annual pension and post-employment benefit costs, market instruments. TheCompany has a policy of making
the Company estimates the rate of return on plan assets, and the investments only with commercial institutions that have atleastan
cost of future health care benefits. Actual results may or may not A (or equivalent) credit rating.
differ from thoseestimates.
The Company follows the provisions of U.S. GAAP when record-
3. Inventories
ing litigation related contingencies. A liability is recorded when a loss
is probable and can be reasonably estimated. The best estimate of At the end of 2010and 2009, inventories were comprised of:
aloss within a range is accrued; however, if no estimate in the range
(Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009
is better than any other, the minimum amount is accrued.
Raw materials and supplies $1,073 1,144
Goods in process 1,460 1,395
ANNUALCLOSING DATE
Finished goods 2,845 2,641
TheCompany follows the conceptof a fiscal year, which ends on the
Sunday nearest to the end of the month of December. Normally Total inventories $5,378 5,180
each fiscal year consists of 52 weeks, but every five or sixyears the
fiscal year consists of 53 weeks, as was the case in 2009 and will be
4. Property, Plant and Equipment
the case again in 2014.
At the end of 2010and 2009, property, plant and equipment at cost
and accumulated depreciation were:
RECLASSIFICATION
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to
(Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009
current year presentation.
Land and land improvements $ 738 714
Buildings and building equipment 9,079 8,863
2. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Current Machinery and equipment 18,032 17,153
Marketable Securities Construction in progress 2,577 2,521
At the end of 2010and 2009, the amortized cost of cash, cash Total property, plant and equipment, gross $30,426 29,251
equivalents and current marketable securities were comprised of: Less accumulated depreciation 15,873 14,492
Total property, plant and equipment, net $14,553 14,759
_______A__m_o_r_ti_z_ed__C_o_s_t______
(Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009
Cash $ 2,293 2,517 TheCompany capitalizes interest expense as part of the cost of
construction of facilities and equipment. Interest expense capital-
Government securities and obligations 22,349 13,370
ized in 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $73 million, $101 million and
Corporate debt securities 225 426
$147million, respectively.
Money market funds 2,135 1,890
Depreciation expense, including the amortization of capitalized
Time deposits 656 1,222
interest in 2010, 2009 and 2008, was $2.2 billion, $2.1 billion and
Total cash, cash equivalents and $2.0 billion, respectively.
current marketable securities $27,658 19,425
Upon retirement or other disposal of property, plant and equip-
ment, the costs and related amounts of accumulated depreciation
Theestimated fair value was the same as the amortized cost as or amortization are eliminated from the asset and accumulated
ofJanuary 2, 2011. Theestimated fair value was $19,426 million depreciation accounts, respectively. Thedifference, if any, between
asof January 3, 2010reflectinga $1 million unrealized gain in the net asset value and the proceeds are recorded in earnings.
government securities and obligations.
As of January2, 2011, current marketable securities consisted
of $8,153 million and $150million ofgovernment securities and
obligations and corporate debtsecurities, respectively.
48 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORT5. Intangible Assets and Goodwill 6. Fair Value Measurements
At the end of 2010and 2009, the gross and net amounts of intangi- TheCompany uses forward exchange contracts to manage its expo-
ble assets were: sure to the variability of cash flows, primarily related to the foreign
exchange rate changes of future intercompany product and third-
(Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009
party purchases ofraw materials denominated in foreign currency.
Intangible assets with definite lives:
TheCompany also uses cross currency interest rate swaps to man-
Patents and trademarks—gross $ 6,660 5,697
age currency risk primarilyrelated to borrowings. Both types of
Less accumulated amortization 2,629 2,177 derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges. TheCompany also
Patents and trademarks—net $ 4,031 3,520 uses forward exchange contracts to manage its exposure to the vari-
Other intangibles—gross $ 7,674 7,808 ability of cash flows for repatriation of foreign dividends. Thesecon-
tracts are designated as net investment hedges. Additionally, the
Less accumulated amortization 2,880 2,680
Company uses forward exchange contracts to offset its exposure to
Other intangibles—net $ 4,794 5,128
certain foreign currency assets and liabilities. Theseforward
Total intangible assets with definite lives—gross $14,334 13,505 exchange contracts are not designated as hedges and therefore,
Less accumulated amortization 5,509 4,857 changes in the fair values of these derivatives are recognized in
Total intangible assets with definite lives—net $ 8,825 8,648 earnings, thereby offsetting the current earnings effect of the
related foreign currency assets and liabilities. TheCompany does
Intangible assets with indefinite lives:
not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading or specu-
Trademarks $ 5,954 5,938
lative purposes, or contain credit risk related contingent features or
Purchased in-process research and development* 1,937 1,737
requirements to post collateral. On an ongoing basis, the Company
Total intangible assets with indefinite lives $ 7,891 7,675 monitors counterparty credit ratings. TheCompany considers credit
Total intangible assets—net $16,716 16,323 non-performance risk to below, because the Company enters into
agreements with commercial institutions that have atleast an A
*Purchased in-process research and development will be accounted for asan indefinite-
lived intangible assetuntil the underlying projectis completed orabandoned. (orequivalent) credit rating. As of January 2, 2011, the Company
hadnotional amounts outstandingfor forward foreign exchange
Goodwillas of January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010, as allocated by contracts and cross currency interest rate swaps of $21 billion and
segment of business is as follows: $3 billion, respectively.
All derivative instruments are to berecorded on the balance
Med Dev
(Dollars in Millions) Consumer Pharm and Diag Total sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are
Goodwill at December 28, 2008 $7,474 963 5,282 13,719 recorded each period in current earnings or other comprehensive
income, depending on whether the derivative is designated as part
Acquisitions — 271 401 672
of ahedge transaction, and if so, the type of hedge transaction.
Currency translation/other* 600 10 (139) 471
Thedesignation as a cash flow hedge is made at the entrance
Goodwill at January 3, 2010 $8,074 1,244 5,544 14,862
date into the derivative contract. At inception, all derivatives are
Acquisitions — — 397 397
expected to behighly effective. Changes in the fair value of a
Currency translation/other 70 (19) (16) 35 derivative that is designated as a cash flow hedge and is highly
Goodwill atJanuary 2, 2011 $8,144 1,225 5,925 15,294 effective are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income
* Includes reclassification between segments. until the underlyingtransaction affects earnings, and are then
reclassified to earnings in the same account as the hedged transac-
Theweighted average amortization periods for patents and tion. Gains/losses on net investment hedges are accounted for
trademarks and other intangible assets are 17 years and 28 years, through the currency translation account and are insignificant. On
respectively. Theamortization expense of amortizable assets was an ongoing basis, the Company assesses whether each derivative
$748million, $675 million and $788 million before tax, for the fiscal continues to behighly effective in offsetting changes in the cash
years ended January 2, 2011, January 3, 2010and December 28, flows of hedged items. If and when a derivative is no longer
2008, respectively. Certain patents and intangible assets were expected to behighly effective, hedge accounting is discontinued.
written down to fair value during fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, Hedge ineffectiveness, if any, is included in current period earnings
with the resulting charge included in amortization expense. These in other (income) and expense, net, and was not material for the
write downs did not have a material impact on the Company’s fiscal years ended January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010. Refer to
results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Note 13 for disclosures of movements in Accumulated Other
Theestimated amortization expense for thefive succeeding Comprehensive Income.
years approximates $730 million before tax, per year. Substantially As of January2, 2011, the balance of deferred net gains on
all of the amortization expense is included in cost of products sold. derivatives included in accumulated other comprehensive income
was $100 million after-tax. For additional information, seeNote 13.
TheCompany expects that substantially all of the amount related
toforeign exchange contracts will be reclassified into earnings over
the next 12 months as a result of transactions that are expected to
occur over thatperiod. Themaximum length of time over which the
Company is hedging transaction exposure is 18 months, excluding
interest rate swaps. Theamount ultimately realized in earnings will
differ as foreign exchange rates change. Realized gains and losses
are ultimately determined by actual exchange rates at maturity of
the derivative.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49Thefollowing table is a summary of the activity related to designated derivatives for the fiscal years ended January 2, 2011 and
January3, 2010:
Gain/(Loss)
Gain/(Loss) reclassified from Gain/(Loss)
recognized in AccumulatedOCI recognized in
Cash Flow Hedges _____A_c_c_um__u_la_t_e_d_ O_C_I_(1_)____ _______in_t_o_ i_n_c_o_m_e_(1_)______ __O__th_e_r_ i_n_co_m__e_/_ex_p_e_n_s_e_(2_)__
(Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
Foreign exchange contracts $ (66) (63) (52)(A) (47)(A) (2) 1
Foreign exchange contracts (296) (173) (300)(B) 70(B) (38) (1)
Foreign exchange contracts 51 5 57(C) 13(C) 5 —
Cross currency interest rate swaps (40) 241 6(D) (16)(D) — —
Foreign exchange contracts 18 28 1(E) (6)(E) 3 (12)
Total $(333) 38 (288) 14 (32) (12)
All amounts shown in the table above are net of tax.
(1)Effective portion
(2)Ineffective portion
(A)Included in Sales to customer
(B)Included in Cost of products sold
(C)Included in Research and development expense
(D)Included in Interest (income)/Interest expense, net
(E)Included in Other (income)/expense, net
For the fiscal years ended January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010, a loss at the currentspotforeign exchange rate. TheCompany does not
of $31 million and a gain of $21 million, respectively, was recognized believe that fair values of these derivative instruments materially
in Other (income)/expense, net, relating to foreign exchange differ from the amounts thatcouldbe realized upon settlementor
contracts not designated as hedging instruments. maturity, or that the changes in fair value will have a material effect
Fair value is the exit price that wouldbe received to sell an on theCompany’s results of operations, cash flows or financial posi-
asset or paid to transfer a liability. Fair value is a market-based tion. TheCompany also holds equity investments thatare classified
measurement that should be determined using assumptions that as Level 1 as they are traded in an active exchange market.
market participants woulduse in pricing an asset or liability. The Thefollowing three levels of inputs are used to measure
authoritative literature establishes a three-level hierarchy to priori- fair value:
tize the inputs used in measuring fair value. Thelevels within the
Level 1—Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets
hierarchy are described below with Level 1 having the highest
andliabilities.
priority and Level 3 having the lowest.
Thefair value of a derivative financial instrument (i.e. forward Level 2—Significant other observable inputs.
exchange contract, currency swap) is the aggregation by currency of
Level 3—Significant unobservable inputs.
all future cash flows discounted to its present value at the prevailing
market interest rates and subsequently converted to the U.S. dollar
50 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTTheCompany’s significant financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value as of January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010were as follows:
_____________________________________________20__10_ __2_0_0__9
(Dollars in Millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level3 Total Total(1)
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments:
Assets:
Foreign exchange contracts $ — 321 — 321 436
Cross currency interest rate swaps(2) — 17 — 17 126
Total — 338 — 338 562
Liabilities:
Foreign exchange contracts — 586 — 586 608
Cross currency interest rate swaps(3) — 502 — 502 571
Total — 1,088 — 1,088 1,179
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:
Assets:
Foreign exchange contracts — 19 — 19 33
Liabilities:
Foreign exchange contracts — 39 — 39 40
Other investments $1,165 — — 1,165 1,134
(1)2009 assets and liabilities are all classified as Level 2 with the exception of other investments of $1,134 millionwhich are classified as Level 1.
(2)Includes $14 million and $119 million of non-current assetsfor the fiscal years ending January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010, respectively.
(3)Includes $502 million and $517 million of non-current liabilities for the fiscal years ending January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010, respectively.
See Notes 2 and 7 for financial assets and liabilities held at carrying amount on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
7. Borrowings TheCompany has access to substantial sources of funds at
Thecomponents of long-term debt are as follows: numerous banks worldwide. In September 2010, the Company
secured a new 364-day Credit Facility. Total credit available to the
Effective Effective
Company approximates $10 billion, which expires September 22,
(Dollars in Millions) 2010 Rate % 2009 Rate %
2011. Interest charged on borrowings under the credit line agree-
5.15% Debentures due 2012 $ 599 5.18% 599 5.18
ments is based on either bids provided by banks, the prime rate or
3.80% Debentures due 2013 500 3.82 500 3.82
London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR), plus applicable margins.
5.55% Debentures due 2017 1,000 5.55 1,000 5.55
Commitmentfees under the agreements are not material.
5.15% Debentures due 2018 898 5.15 898 5.15
Throughout 2010the Company continuedto have access to
4.75% Notes due 2019
liquidity through the commercial paper market. Short-term borrow-
(1B Euro 1.3268)(2)/(1B Euro 1.4382)(3) 1,319(2)5.35 1,429(3)5.35
ings andthe current portion of long-term debt amounted to approxi-
3% Zero Coupon Convertible
mately $7.6 billion at the end of 2010, of which $7.4 billion was
Subordinated Debentures due 2020 194 3.00 188 3.00
borrowed under the Commercial Paper Program. Theremainder
2.95% Debentures due 2020 541 3.15 — —
represents principally local borrowing by international subsidiaries.
6.73% Debentures due 2023 250 6.73 250 6.73 The Company has a shelf registration with the Securities and
5.50% Notes due 2024 Exchange Commission that enables the Company to issue on a
(500MM GBP 1.5403)(2)/ timely basis debt securities and warrants to purchase debt securities.
(500MMGBP 1.6189)(3) 764(2)5.71 803(3)5.71
Aggregate maturities of long-term obligations commencingin
6.95% Notes due 2029 294 7.14 294 7.14 2010are:
4.95% Debenture due 2033 500 4.95 500 4.95
(Dollars in Millions) After
5.95% Notes due 2037 995 5.99 995 5.99
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015
5.86% Debentures due 2038 700 5.86 700 5.86
$13 644 509 9 — 7,994
4.50% Debentures due 2040 539 4.63 — —
Other (Includes Industrial
Revenue Bonds) 76 101
9,169(4)5.25(1) 8,257(4)5.42(1)
Less current portion 13 34
$9,156 8,223
(1)Weighted average effective rate.
(2)Translation rate at January 2, 2011.
(3)Translation rate at January 3, 2010.
(4)The excess of the fair value over the carrying valueof debt was $1.0 billion in 2010and
$0.8billion in 2009.
Fair value of the non-currentdebt was estimated using market
prices, which were corroborated by quoted broker prices in
activemarkets.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 518. Income Taxes Temporary differences and carry forwards for 2010and 2009
Theprovision for taxes on incomeconsists of: are as follows:
(Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009
Currently payable:
______D_e_fe_r_r_e_d_ T_a_x_____ ______D_e_fe_r_r_e_d_ T_a_x_____
(Dollars in Millions) Asset Liability Asset Liability
U.S. taxes $2,063 2,410 2,334
Employee related obligations $2,211 2,153
International taxes 1,194 1,515 1,624
Stock based compensation 1,225 1,291
Total currently payable 3,257 3,925 3,958
Depreciation (769) (661)
Deferred:
Non-deductible intangibles (2,725) (2,377)
U.S. taxes (4) 187 126
International R&D capitalized
International taxes 360 (623) (104)
for tax 1,857 1,989
Total deferred 356 (436) 22 Reserves & liabilities 948 1,014
Provision for taxes on income $3,613 3,489 3,980 Income reported for
tax purposes 691 648
A comparison of incometax expense at the U.S. statutory rate of Net operating loss
35% in 2010, 2009 and 2008, to the Company’s effective taxrate is carryforward international 738 615
as follows: Miscellaneous international 1,326 (106) 1,474 (110)
Miscellaneous U.S. 470 799
(Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009 2008
Total deferred income taxes $9,466 (3,600) 9,983 (3,148)
U.S. $ 6,392 7,141 6,579
International 10,555 8,614 10,350
Thedifference between the net deferred tax on incomeper the bal-
Earnings before taxes on income $16,947 15,755 16,929
ance sheet and the net deferred tax above is included in taxes on
Tax rates:
incomeon the balance sheet. The2009 deferred tax Miscellaneous
U.S. statutory rate 35.0% 35.0 35.0
U.S. includes current year tax receivables. TheCompany has a
Ireland and Puerto Rico operations (5.1) (5.1) (6.8) wholly-owned international subsidiary thathas cumulative net
Research and orphan drug taxcredits (0.6) (0.6) (0.6) losses. TheCompany believes that it is more likely than not that this
U.S. state and local 1.0 1.8 1.6 subsidiary will realize future taxable incomesufficient to utilize
International subsidiaries excluding Ireland (7.5) (6.7) (5.6) these deferred taxassets.
U.S. manufacturing deduction (0.5) (0.4) (0.4) Thefollowing table summarizes the activity related to unrecog-
In-process research and nized tax benefits:
development (IPR&D) — — 0.4
(Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009 2008
U.S. Tax international income (0.6) (1.6) (0.5)
Beginning of year $2,403 1,978 1,653
All other (0.4) (0.3) 0.4
Increases related to current year tax positions 465 555 545
Effective tax rate 21.3% 22.1 23.5
Increases related to prior period tax positions 68 203 87
Decreases related to prior period tax positions (431) (163) (142)
TheCompany has subsidiaries manufacturing in Ireland under an
Settlements (186) (87) (137)
incentive taxrate. In addition, the Company has subsidiaries operat-
Lapse of statute of limitations (12) (83) (28)
ing in Puerto Rico under various tax incentive grants. Thedecrease
End of year $2,307 2,403 1,978
in the2010tax rate was primarily due to decreases in taxable
incomein higher tax jurisdictions relative to taxable incomein lower
TheCompany had $2.3 billion, $2.4 billion and $2.0 billion of unrec-
tax jurisdictions and certain U.S. tax adjustments. Thedecrease
ognized tax benefits as of January 2, 2011, January 3, 2010and
inthe 2009 tax rate was primarily due to increases in taxable
December 28, 2008, respectively. All of the unrecognized tax bene-
incomein lower tax jurisdictions relative to taxable incomein
fits of $2.3 billion at January 2, 2011, ifrecognized, wouldaffect the
highertax jurisdictions.
Company’s annual effective taxrate. TheCompany conducts busi-
ness and files tax returns in numerous countries and currently has
tax audits in progress with a number of tax authorities. TheU.S.
Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed its audit for the tax
years through 2005; however, there are a limited number of issues
remaining open for prior tax years goingback to 1999. In other major
jurisdictions where the Company conducts business, the years
remain open generally back to the year 2003. TheCompany does
not expect that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits will
significantly change over the next twelve months. TheCompany is
not ableto provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the timingof
any other future tax payments relating to uncertain tax positions.
52 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTTheCompany classifies liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits 10. Pensions and Other Benefit Plans
and related interest and penalties as long-term liabilities. Interest TheCompany sponsors various retirement and pension plans,
expense and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are includingdefined benefit, defined contribution and termination
classified as incometax expense. TheCompany recognized after indemnity plans, which cover most employees worldwide. The
taxinterest of $34 million income, $36 million expense and $69 mil- Company also provides postretirement benefits, primarily health
lion expense in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Thetotal care, to all U.S. retired employees and their dependents.
amount of accrued interest was $264 million and $309 million in Many international employees are covered by government-
2010and 2009, respectively. sponsored programs and the costto the Company is not significant.
Retirement plan benefits are primarily based on the employee’s
compensation during the last three to five years before retirement
9. Employee Related Obligations
and the number of years of service. International subsidiaries have
At the end of 2010and 2009, employee related obligations
plans under which funds are deposited with trustees, annuities are
recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet were:
purchased under group contracts, or reserves are provided.
TheCompany does not fund retiree health care benefits in
(Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009
Pension benefits $2,175 2,792 advance and has the right to modifythese plans in the future.
TheCompany uses the date of its consolidated financial state-
Postretirement benefits 2,359 2,245
ments (January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010, respectively) as the
Postemployment benefits 1,379 1,504
measurement date for all U.S. and international retirement and
Deferred compensation 820 790
other benefit plans.
Total employee obligations 6,733 7,331
In accordance with U.S. GAAP, the Company has adopted
Less current benefits payable 646 562 therecent standards related to employers’ accountingfor defined
Employee related obligations—non-current $6,087 6,769 benefit pension and other postretirement plans.
Prepaid employee related obligations of $615 million and $266 mil-
lion for 2010and 2009, respectively, are included in other assets on
the consolidated balance sheet.
Net periodicbenefit costs for theCompany’s defined benefit retirement plans and other benefit plans for 2010, 2009 and 2008 include
the following components:
____________R_e_t_ir_e_m_e_n_t_ P_la_n_s____________ ___________O_t_h_e_r _B_e_n_e_fi_t_P_la_n_s___________
(Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008
Service cost $ 550 511 545 $134 137 142
Interest cost 791 746 701 202 174 166
Expected return on plan assets (1,005) (934) (876) (1) (1) (2)
Amortization of prior service cost 10 13 10 (4) (5) (4)
Amortization of net transition asset 1 1 2 — — —
Recognized actuarial losses 236 155 62 48 55 64
Curtailments and settlements 1 (11) 7 — (1) —
Net periodic benefit cost $ 584 481 451 $379 359 366
Thenet periodic benefit cost attributable to U.S. retirement plans was $294 million, $286 millionand $220million in 2010, 2009 and
2008,respectively.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53Amounts expected to berecognized in net periodic benefit cost life expectancy. Theamortization of gains and losses for theother
in thecoming year for theCompany’s defined benefit retirement U.S. benefit plans is determined by using a 10% corridor of the
plans and other postretirement plans: greater of the market value of assets or the projected benefit obliga-
tion. Total unamortized gains and losses in excess of the corridor are
(Dollars in Millions)
amortized over the average remaining future service.
Amortization of net transition obligation $ 1
Prior service costs/benefits for theU.S. pension plans are
Amortization of net actuarial losses 402
amortized over the remaining future service of plan participants at
Amortization of prior service cost 5 the time of the plan amendment. Prior service cost/benefit for the
other U.S. benefit plans is amortized over the average remaining
Unrecognized gains and losses for theU.S. pension plans are amor- service to full eligibility age of plan participants at the time of the
tized over the average remaining future service for each plan. For plan amendment.
plans with no active employees, they are amortized over the average
Theweighted-average assumptions in the following table represent the rates used to develop the actuarial present value of projected
benefit obligation for theyear listed and also the net periodic benefit cost for the following year.
____________R_e_t_ir_e_m_e_n_t_ P_la_n_s____________ ___________O_t_h_e_r _B_e_n_e_fi_t_P_la_n_s___________
2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008
U.S. Benefit Plans
Discount rate 5.98% 6.50 6.50 5.98% 6.50 6.50
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
Rate of increase in compensation levels 4.25 4.50 4.50 4.25 4.50 4.50
International Benefit Plans
Discount rate 5.26% 5.75 6.00 6.32% 6.75 7.25
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 8.00 8.00 8.00 — — —
Rate of increase in compensation levels 4.00 4.00 4.00 4.75 4.75 4.50
TheCompany’s discount rates are determined by consideringcur- Thefollowing table displays the assumed health care cost trend
rent yield curves representing high quality, long-term fixed income rates, for all individuals:
instruments. Theresulting discount rates are consistentwith the
Health Care Plans 2010 2009
duration of plan liabilities.
Health care cost trend rate assumed for next year 7.50% 8.00
Theexpected long-term rate of return on plan assets assump-
Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed
tion is determined using a building block approach, considering
to decline(ultimate trend) 5.00% 5.00
historical averages and real returns of each asset class. In certain
Year the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate 2018 2017
countries, where historical returns are not meaningful, considera-
tion is given to local market expectations of long-term returns.
A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend
rates wouldhave the following effect:
One-Percentage- One-Percentage-
(Dollars in Millions) Point Increase Point Decrease
Health Care Plans
Total interest and service cost $ 36 $ (28)
Postretirement benefit obligation 377 (302)
54 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTThefollowing table sets forth information related to thebenefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets at year-end 2010and 2009 for
the Company’s defined benefit retirement plans and other postretirement plans:
_____R_e_t_i_re_m__en_t_ P_l_a_n_s_____ ____O__th_e_r_ B_e_n_e_f_it_P_l_a_n_s____
(Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009 2010 2009
Change in Benefit Obligation
Projected benefit obligation—beginning of year $13,449 11,923 $3,590 2,765
Service cost 550 511 134 137
Interest cost 791 746 202 174
Plan participant contributions 42 50 — —
Amendments — 3 — —
Actuarial losses 815 412 115 51
Divestitures & acquisitions — 15 — 13
Curtailments & settlements & restructuring (10) (3) — 748
Benefits paid from plan (627) (570) (476) (313)
Effect of exchange rates (17) 362 7 15
Projected benefit obligation—end of year* $14,993 13,449 $3,572 3,590
Change in Plan Assets
Plan assets at fair value—beginning of year $10,923 7,677 $ 16 17
Actual return on plan assets 1,466 2,048 2 4
Company contributions 1,611 1,354 472 308
Plan participant contributions 42 50 — —
Settlements (7) — — —
Benefits paid from plan assets (627) (570) (476) (313)
Effect of exchange rates 25 364 — —
Plan assets at fair value—end of year $13,433 10,923 $ 14 16
Funded status at—end of year* $(1,560) (2,526) $(3,558) (3,574)
Amounts Recognized in the Company’s Balance Sheet consist of the following:
Non-current assets $ 615 266 $ — —
Current liabilities (54) (53) (576) (484)
Non-current liabilities (2,121) (2,739) (2,982) (3,090)
Total recognized in the consolidated balance sheet—end of year $(1,560) (2,526) $(3,558) (3,574)
Amounts Recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income consist of the following:
Net actuarial loss $ 3,539 3,415 $1,017 924
Prior service cost (credit) 39 47 (21) (23)
Unrecognized net transition obligation 4 5 — —
Total before tax effects $ 3,582 3,467 $ 996 901
Accumulated Benefit Obligations—end of year* $13,134 11,687
Changes in Plan Assets and Benefit Obligations Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income
Net periodic benefit cost $ 584 481 $ 379 359
Net actuarial loss (gain) 354 (704) 134 48
Amortization of net actuarial loss (242) (134) (46) (131)
Prior service cost — 3 — —
Amortization of prior service (cost) credit (10) (13) 4 5
Effect of exchange rates 13 57 3 2
Total recognized in other comprehensive income, before tax $ 115 (791) $ 95 (76)
Total recognized in net periodic benefit cost and other comprehensive income $ 699 (310) $ 474 283
*The Company does not fund certain plans, as funding is not required. $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion of
the2010 and 2009 projected benefit obligation and $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion of the underfunded
status for each of the fiscalyears 2010 and 2009, respectively, relates to the unfunded pension plans.
$1.1 billion and $1.0 billion ofthe accumulated benefit obligation for the fiscalyears 2010 and 2009,
respectively, relate to these unfunded pension plans.
Plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets consist of the following:
_____R_e_t_ir_e_m__en_t_ _P_la_n_s_____
(Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009
Accumulated benefit obligation $(2,361) (4,065)
Projected benefit obligation (2,771) (4,663)
Plan assets at fair value 817 2,564
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 55Thefollowing table displays the projected future benefitpayments from the Company’s retirement and other benefit plans:
(Dollars in Millions) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016-2020
Projected future benefit payments
Retirement plans $596 598 614 642 682 4,153
Other benefit plans—gross $263 212 200 202 203 1,075
Medicare rebates (10) (12) — — — —
Other benefit plans—net $253 200 200 202 203 1,075
The2011 other benefit plan projected future benefitpayments International plans are funded in accordance with local regula-
exclude $345million of severance payments associated with the tions. Additional discretionary contributions are made when
2009 worldwide restructuring program. deemed appropriate to meet the long-term obligations of the plans.
In 2010, the Company contributed $1,236 million and $375 mil- For certain plans, funding is not a common practice, as funding pro-
lion to its U.S. and international pension plans, respectively. vides no economic benefit. Consequently the Company has several
TheCompany plans to continue to fund its U.S. defined benefit pension plans that are not funded.
plans to comply with the Pension Protection Act of 2006.
Thefollowing table displays the projected future minimum contributions to the Company’s U.S. and international unfunded retirement
plans. These amounts do not include any discretionary contributions that theCompany may elect to make in the future.
(Dollars in Millions) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016-2020
Projected future contributions
Unfunded U.S. retirement plans $36 38 40 43 46 300
Unfunded international retirement plans $18 17 19 19 23 128
Each pension plan is overseen by a local committee or board that is responsible for theoverall administration and investment of the pension
plans. In determining investment policies, strategies and goals, each committee or board considers factors including, local pension rules
andregulations; local tax regulations; availability of investment vehicles (separate accounts, commingledaccounts, insurance funds, etc.);
funded status of the plans; ratio of actives to retirees; duration of liabilities; and other relevant factors including, diversification, liquidity of
local markets and liquidity of base currency. A majority of the Company’s pension funds are open to new entrants and are expected to be
on-going plans. Permitted investments are primarily liquid and/or listed, with little reliance on illiquid and non-traditional investments such
as hedge funds. An asset allocation of 75% equities and 25% fixed incomeis generally pursued unless local regulations andilliquidity
require otherwise.
TheCompany’s retirement plan asset allocation at the end of 2010and 2009 and target allocations for 2011 are as follows:
Percent of Target
________P_la_n_ A__ss_e_t_s_______ Allocation
2010 2009 2011
U.S. Retirement Plans
Equity securities 79% 76% 75%
Debt securities 21 24 25
Total plan assets 100% 100% 100%
International Retirement Plans
Equity securities 65% 65% 65%
Debt securities 35 34 35
Real estate and other — 1 —
Total plan assets 100% 100% 100%
TheCompany’s other benefit plans are unfunded except for U.S. life While the Plan believes its valuation methods are appropriate
insurance contract assets of $14 million and $16 million at January 2, and consistent with other market participants, the use of different
2011 and January 3, 2010, respectively. methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain
Thefair value of Johnson & Johnson Common Stock directly financial instruments couldresult in a different estimate of fair value
held in planassets was $453 million (3.4%of total plan assets) at the reporting date.
atJanuary 2, 2011 and $469 million (4.3%of total plan assets) at
January 3, 2010. VALUATIONHIERARCHY
Theauthoritative literature establishes a three-level hierarchy to
DETERMINATION OF FAIR VALUE prioritize the inputs used in measuring fair value. Thelevels within
ThePlan has an established and well-documented process for the hierarchy are described in the table below with Level 1 having
determining fair values. Fair value is based upon quoted market thehighestpriority and Level 3 having the lowest.
prices, where available. If listed prices or quotes are not available, A financial instrument’s categorization within the valuation
fair value is based upon models that primarily use, as inputs, hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant
market-basedor independently sourced market parameters, includ- tothe fair value measurement.
ingyieldcurves, interest rates, volatilities, equity or debt prices,
foreign exchange rates and credit curves.
56 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTFollowing is a description of the valuation methodologies used • Equity securities—Common stocks are valued at the closing
for theinvestments measured at fair value. price reported on the major market on which the individual securi-
• Short-term investments—Cash and quoted short-term instru- ties are traded. Substantially all common stock is classified within
ments are valued at the closing price or the amount held on deposit Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy.
by the custodian bank. Other investments are through investment • Commingled funds—Theinvestments are public investment
vehicles valued using the Net Asset Value (NAV) provided by the vehicles valued using the NAV provided by the fund administrator.
administrator of the fund. TheNAV is based on the value of the TheNAV is based on the value of the underlying assets owned by
underlyingassets owned by the fund, minus its liabilities, and then the fund, minus its liabilities, and then divided by the number of
divided by the number of shares outstanding. TheNAV is a quoted shares outstanding. Assets in the Level 2 category have a quoted
price in a market that is not active and classified as Level 2. market price in a market that is not active.
• Government and agency securities—A limited number of these • Insurance contracts—Theinstruments are issued by insurance
investments are valued at the closing price reported on the major companies. Thefair value is based on negotiated value and the
market on which the individual securities are traded. Where quoted underlyinginvestments held in separate account portfolios as well
prices are available in an active market, the investments are classi- as considering thecredit worthiness of the issuer. Theunderlying
fied within Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. If quoted market prices investments are government, asset-backed and fixed incomesecuri-
are not available for thespecific security, then fair values are esti- ties. In general, insurance contracts are classified as Level 3 as there
mated by using pricing models, quoted prices of securities with sim- are no quoted prices nor other observable inputs for pricing.
ilar characteristics or discounted cash flows. When quoted market • Other assets—Other assets are represented primarily by limited
prices for a security are not available in an active market, they are partnerships and real estate investments, as well as commercial
classified as Level 2. loans and commercial mortgages that are not classified as corporate
• Debt instruments—A limited number of these investments are debt. Other assets that are exchange listed and actively traded are
valued at the closing price reported on the major market on which classified as Level 1, while inactively traded assets are classified as
the individual securities are traded. Where quoted prices are avail- Level 2. Most limited partnerships representinvestments in private
able in an active market, the investments are classified as Level 1. If equity and similar funds that are valued by the general partners.
quoted market prices are not available for thespecific security, then These, as well as any other assets valued using unobservable inputs,
fair values are estimated by using pricing models, quoted prices of are classified as Level 3.
securities with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows and
are classified as Level 2. Level 3 debt instruments are priced based
on unobservable inputs.
Thefollowing table sets forth the trust investments measured at fair value as of January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010:
QuotedPrices Significant
in Active Other Significant
Markets for Observable Unobservable
Identical Assets Inputs Inputs
_________(L_e_v_e_l _1)_________ _________(L_e_v_e_l _2_)________ _________(_Le_v_e_l _3_)________ _______T_o_t_a_l A__ss_e_t_s_______
(Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
Short-term investment funds $ 80 91 371 358 — — 451 449
Government and agency securities 69 — 1,484 1,165 — — 1,553 1,165
Debt instruments 5 3 1,149 1,145 13 5 1,167 1,153
Equity securities 6,744 5,068 14 58 24 15 6,782 5,141
Commingled funds 1 — 3,173 2,673 35 26 3,209 2,699
Insurance contracts — — — — 29 32 29 32
Other assets 10 31 150 171 82 82 242 284
Trust investments at fair value $6,909 5,193 6,341 5,570 183 160 13,433 10,923
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 57LEVEL 3 GAINS AND LOSSES
Thetable below sets forth a summary of changes in the fair value of the Plan’s Level 3 assets for theyears ended January 2, 2011 and
January 3, 2010:
Debt Equity Commingled Insurance Other Total
(Dollars in Millions) Instruments Securities Funds Contracts Assets Level3
Balance December 28, 2008 $ 7 15 15 29 85 151
Realized gains (losses) — — — 3 — 3
Unrealized gains (losses) 2 (2) (2) — (3) (5)
Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements, net (4) 2 13 — — 11
Balance January 3, 2010 5 15 26 32 82 160
Realized gains (losses) (1) — — (3) 1 (3)
Unrealized gains (losses) 1 4 4 — (3) 6
Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements, net 8 5 5 — 2 20
Balance January 2, 2011 $13 24 35 29 82 183
11. Savings Plan 13. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
TheCompany has voluntary 401 (k) savings plans designed to Components of other comprehensive income/(loss) consist of
enhance the existing retirement programs covering eligible employ- thefollowing:
ees. TheCompany matches a percentage of each employee’s
Total
contributions consistent with the provisions of the plan for which
Gains/ Accumulated
he/she is eligible. Total Company matching contributions to the Foreign Gains/ (Losses) on Other
plans were $157 million, $163 million and $166 million in 2010, 2009 Currency (Losses) on Employee Derivatives Comprehensive
(Dollars in Millions) Translation Securities Benefit Plans & Hedges Income/(Loss)
and 2008, respectively.
December 30, 2007 $ 628 84 (1,360) (45) (693)
2008 changes
12. Capital and Treasury Stock Unrealized gain (loss) — (32) — 94
Changes in treasury stock were: Net amount reclassed
to net earnings — (27) — 72
(Amounts in MillionsExcept Treasury Stock ______T_r_e_a_su_r_y_ S_t_o_c_k______
Net 2008 changes (2,499) (59) (1,870) 166 (4,262)
Numberof Shares in Thousands) Shares Amount
Balance at December 30, 2007 279,620 $14,388 December 28, 2008 $(1,871) 25 (3,230) 121 (4,955)
Employee compensation and stock option plans (29,906) (2,005) 2009 changes
Conversion of subordinated debentures (19) (1) Unrealized gain (loss) — (52) — 38
Repurchase of common stock 100,970 6,651 Net amount reclassed
to net earnings — (3) — (14)
Balance at December 28, 2008 350,665 19,033
Net 2009 changes 1,363 (55) 565 24 1,897
Employee compensation and stock option plans (22,161) (1,377)
January 3, 2010 $ (508) (30) (2,665) 145 (3,058)
Conversion of subordinated debentures (96) (6)
2010 changes
Repurchase of common stock 37,114 2,130
Unrealized gain (loss) — 99 — (333)
Balance at January 3, 2010 365,522 19,780
Net amount reclassed
Employee compensation and stock option plans (28,827) (1,792)
to net earnings — (45) — 288
Conversion of subordinated debentures (39) (2)
Net 2010 changes (461) 54 (21) (45) (473)
Repurchase of common stock 45,090 2,797
January 2, 2011 $ (969) 24 (2,686) 100 (3,531)
Balance at January 2, 2011 381,746 $20,783
Thetax effect on the unrealized gains/(losses) on the equity securi-
Aggregate shares of Common Stock issued were approximately
ties was expense of $13 million in 2010, incomeof $14million in
3,119,843,000 shares at the end of 2010, 2009 and 2008.
2009 and expense of $14 million in 2008. Thetax effect related
Cash dividends paid were $2.110 per share in 2010, compared
toemployee benefit plans was $11 million, $302 million and
with dividends of $1.930 per share in 2009, and $1.795 per share
$1,090million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Thetax effect
in2008.
on thegains/(losses) on derivatives and hedges was expense of
$54 million, $78 million and $70 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. See Note 6 for additional information relating to
derivatives and hedging.
Thecurrency translation adjustments are not adjusted for
incometaxes as they relate to permanentinvestments in
international subsidiaries.
58 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORT14. International Currency Translation 17. Common Stock, Stock Option Plans and Stock
For translation of its subsidiaries operating in non-U.S. Dollar cur- Compensation Agreements
rencies, the Company has determined that the local currencies of At January 2, 2011, the Company had 7 stock-based compensation
itsinternational subsidiaries are the functional currencies except plans.The shares outstandingare for contracts under the Company’s
those in highly inflationary economies, which are defined as those 2000Stock Option Plan, the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the
which have had compound cumulative rates of inflation of 100% 1997 Non-Employee Director’s Plan and the ALZA Corporation,
ormore during the past three years, or where a substantial portion Inverness Medical Technology, Inc., and Scios Inc. Stock Option
ofits cashflows are not in the local currency. Plans. During 2010, no options or restricted shares were granted
In consolidatinginternational subsidiaries, balance sheet cur- under any of these plans exceptunder the 2005 Long-Term
rency effects are recorded as a component of accumulated other Incentive Plan.
comprehensive income. This equity account includes the results Thecompensation cost that has been charged against income
oftranslating all balance sheet assets and liabilities at current for these plans was $614 million, $628 million and $627 million for
exchange rates, except for those located in highlyinflationary 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Thetotal incometax benefit
economies. Thetranslation of balance sheet accounts for highly recognized in the incomestatement for share-based compensation
inflationary economies are reflected in the operating results. costs was $205 million, $210 million and $210 million for 2010,
An analysis of the changes during 2010, 2009 and 2008 for 2009 and 2008, respectively. Thetotal unrecognized compensation
foreign currency translation adjustments is included in Note 13. cost was $613 million as of January 2, 2011, $612 million as of
Net currency transaction gains and losses included in other January 3, 2010and $632 million as of December 28, 2008.
(income) expense were losses of $130 million, $210 million and Theweighted average period for this costto berecognized was
$31million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 1.05years, 1.16 years and 1.06 years for 2010, 2009, and 2008,
respectively. Share-based compensation costs capitalized as part
ofinventory were insignificant in all periods.
15. Earnings Per Share
Thefollowing is a reconciliation of basic net earnings per share to
STOCK OPTIONS
diluted net earnings per share for the fiscal years ended January 2, Stock options expire 10 years fromthe date of grant and vest
2011, January 3, 2010and December 28, 2008: overservice periods that range from six months to four years.
Alloptions are granted at the average of the high and low prices of
(In Millions Except PerShare Data) 2010 2009 2008
the Company’s Common Stock on theNew York Stock Exchange
Basic net earnings per share $ 4.85 4.45 4.62
onthe date of grant. Under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the
Average shares
Company may issue up to 260 million shares of common stock.
outstanding — basic 2,751.4 2,759.5 2,802.5
Shares available for future grants under the 2005 Long-Term
Potential shares exercisable
Incentive Plan were 121.3 million at the end of 2010.
under stock option plans 156.1 118.0 179.0
TheCompany settles employee stock option exercises with
Less: shares repurchased
treasury shares. Treasury shares are replenished throughout the
under treasury stock method (122.3) (92.0) (149.6)
year for thenumber of shares used to settle employee stock
Convertible debt shares 3.6 3.6 3.7
optionexercises.
Adjusted average shares
Thefair value of each option award was estimated on the date
outstanding — diluted 2,788.8 2,789.1 2,835.6
of grant using the Black-Scholes option valuation model that uses
Diluted net earnings per share $ 4.78 4.40 4.57
the assumptions noted in the following table. Expected volatility
represents a blended rate of 4-year daily historical average volatility
Thediluted net earnings per share calculation includes the dilutive
rate, and a 5-week average implied volatility rate based on at-the-
effect of convertible debt that is offset by the related reduction
money traded Johnson & Johnson options with a life of 2 years.
ininterest expense of $4 million after-tax for years 2010, 2009
Historical data isusedto determine the expected life of the option.
and2008.
Therisk-free rate was based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in
Diluted net earnings per share excludes 66 million, 121 million
effect at the time of grant.
and 59 million shares underlying stock options for 2010, 2009 and
Theaverage fair value of options granted was $8.03, $8.35 and
2008, respectively, as the exercise price of these options was
$7.66, in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Thefair value was
greater than their average market value, which wouldresult in an
estimated based on the weighted average assumptions of:
anti-dilutive effect on diluted earnings per share.
2010 2009 2008
Risk-free rate 2.78% 2.71% 2.97%
16. Rental Expense and Lease Commitments
Expected volatility 17.4% 19.5% 15.0%
Rentals of space, vehicles, manufacturing equipment and office and
Expected life 6.0yrs 6.0yrs 6.0yrs
data processing equipment under operating leases were approxi-
Dividendyield 3.30% 3.30% 2.90%
mately $299 million, $322 million and $309 million in 2010, 2009
and 2008, respectively.
Theapproximate minimum rental payments required under
operating leases that have initial or remaining non-cancelable lease
terms in excess of one year at January 2, 2011 are:
(Dollars in Millions) After
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 Total
$182 159 130 106 89 74 740
Commitments under capital leases are not significant.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 59A summary of option activity under the Plan as of January 2, 2011, Stock options exercisable at January 3, 2010and December 28,
January 3, 2010and December 28, 2008 and changes during the 2008 were 148,349 at an average price of $57.26 and an average
years ending on those dates is presented below: lifeof 5.0 years and 144,962 at an average price of $56.25 and an
Aggregate
average life of 5.3 years, respectively.
Weighted Aggregate
Outstanding Average Intrinsic Value
(Shares in Thousands) Shares Exercise Price (Dollars in Millions) RESTRICTEDSHAREUNITS
Shares at December 30, 2007 228,629 $56.83 $2,411 TheCompany grants restricted share units with a vesting period of
three years. TheCompany settles employee stock issuances with
Options granted 22,428 61.80
treasury shares. Treasury shares are replenished throughout the
Options exercised (30,033) 50.27
year for thenumber of shares used for employee stock issuances.
Options canceled/forfeited (5,525) 61.90
A summary of share activity under the Plan as of January 2, 2011:
Shares at December 28, 2008 215,499 58.14 $ 597
Outstanding
Options granted 21,576 58.32
(Shares in Thousands) Shares
Options exercised (18,225) 50.97 Shares at December 30, 2007 13,661
Options canceled/forfeited (6,131) 61.85 Granted 10,105
Shares at January 3, 2010 212,719 58.66 $1,310 Issued (40)
Options granted 13,996 62.62 Canceled/forfeited (1,468)
Options exercised (25,020) 51.84 Shares at December 28, 2008 22,258
Options canceled/forfeited (8,005) 62.36 Granted 11,172
Shares at January 2, 2011 193,690 $59.68 $ 648 Issued (5,714)
Canceled/forfeited (1,392)
The total intrinsic valueof options exercised was $278 million, Shares at January 3, 2010 26,324
$184million and $506 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Granted 12,003
Thefollowing table summarizes stock options outstanding and Issued (6,297)
exercisable at January 2, 2011:
Canceled/forfeited (2,296)
(_S_h_a_r_es_ _in_ T__h_ou_s_a_n_d_s_)____________________O_u_t_st_a_n_d_in_g__________ _____E_x_e_r_c_is_a_b_le_____ Shares at January 2, 2011 29,734
Average Average
Exercise Average Exercise Exercise Theaverage fair value of the restricted share units granted was
Price Range Options Life(1) Price Options Price
$56.69, $52.79 and $56.70 in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively,
$25.00-$40.08 50 0.9 $29.53 50 $29.53
using the fair market value at the date of grant. Thefair value of
$41.26-$49.86 532 0.5 47.43 532 47.43
restricted share units was discounted for dividends, which are not
$50.52-$52.80 20,155 2.1 52.20 20,115 52.20
paid on the restricted share units duringthe vesting period.
$53.00-$53.93 24,114 3.0 53.93 24,114 53.93 Thefairvalue of restricted share units settled was $375.0 million,
$54.04-$57.30 24,332 1.1 57.28 24,332 57.28 $308.4 million and$2.5 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
$57.44-$58.34 39,343 6.5 58.33 20,175 58.33 respectively.
$58.42-$65.10 33,020 7.8 62.11 1,147 61.21
$65.62-$68.37 52,144 4.8 65.97 50,810 65.98
193,690 4.7 $59.68 141,275 $59.25
(1)Average contractual life remaining in years.
60 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORT18. Segments of Business(1)and Geographic Areas
________________S_a_l_e_s _to_ _C_u_s_to_m__e_rs_(2_)__________
(Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009 2008
Consumer—
United States $ 5,519 6,837 6,937
International 9,071 8,966 9,117
Total 14,590 15,803 16,054
Pharmaceutical—
United States 12,519 13,041 14,831
International 9,877 9,479 9,736
Total 22,396 22,520 24,567
Medical Devices and Diagnostics—
United States 11,412 11,011 10,541
International 13,189 12,563 12,585
Total 24,601 23,574 23,126
Worldwide total $61,587 61,897 63,747
________________O_p_e_ra_t_in_g_ _P_ro_f_it_______________ ______________I_d_e_n_ti_f_ia_b_le_ _A_s_se_t_s______________
(Dollars in Millions) 2010(5) 2009(6) 2008(7) 2010 2009 2008
Consumer $ 2,342 2,475 2,674 $ 23,753 24,671 23,765
Pharmaceutical 7,086 6,413 7,605 19,961 21,460 19,544
Medical Devices and Diagnostics 8,272 7,694 7,223 23,277 22,853 20,779
Total 17,700 16,582 17,502 66,991 68,984 64,088
Less: Expense not allocated to segments(3) 753 827 573
General corporate(4) 35,917 25,698 20,824
Worldwide total $16,947 15,755 16,929 $102,908 94,682 84,912
Additions to Property, Depreciation and
_______________P_la_n_t_ &_ _E_q_u_ip_m__en_t______________ ________________A__m_o_r_ti_z_a_ti_o_n________________
(Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008
Consumer $ 526 439 499 $ 532 513 489
Pharmaceutical 508 535 920 912 922 986
Medical Devices and Diagnostics 1,113 1,114 1,251 1,270 1,124 1,146
Segments total 2,147 2,088 2,670 2,714 2,559 2,621
General corporate 237 277 396 225 215 211
Worldwide total $2,384 2,365 3,066 $2,939 2,774 2,832
______________S_a_le_s_ t_o_ C_u_s_t_o_m_e_r_s(_2_)____________ ______________L_o_ng_-_L_iv_e_d_ _A_s_se_t_s_(8_)_____________
(Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008
United States $29,450 30,889 32,309 $ 23,315 22,399 21,674
Europe 15,510 15,934 16,782 16,791 17,347 14,375
Western Hemisphere excluding U.S. 5,550 5,156 5,173 3,653 3,540 3,328
Asia-Pacific, Africa 11,077 9,918 9,483 2,089 1,868 1,898
Segments total 61,587 61,897 63,747 45,848 45,154 41,275
General corporate 715 790 785
Other non long-lived assets 56,345 48,738 42,852
Worldwide total $61,587 61,897 63,747 $102,908 94,682 84,912
(1)See Note 1 for a description of the segments in which the Company operates.
(2)Export sales are not significant. In 2010, 2009and 2008, the Company did not have a customer that represented 10% of total revenues.
(3)Amounts not allocated to segments include interest (income) expense, non-controlling interests and general corporate (income) expense.
(4)General corporate includes cash and marketable securities.
(5)Includes $966 million of net litigation gain, comprised of a $333 million expensein thePharmaceutical segment and a gain of $1,299 million in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics
segment. Includes$569 million ofproduct liability expense, comprised of$114 million in the Pharmaceuticalsegment and $455 million in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment.
The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segmentalso includes $280 million expense for the cost associated with theDePuy ASR™Hip recall program.
(6)Includes $1,186 million ofrestructuring expense, comprised of $369 million, $496 million,and $321 million forthe Consumer, Pharmaceutical, and Medical Devices and Diagnostics
segments, respectively. Includes $386 million of fourth quarter net litigation gain, comprised of a $92 million expensein thePharmaceutical segment and a gain of $478 million in the
Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment.
(7)Includes $7 million and $174 million of IPR&D forthe Consumerand Medical Devicesand Diagnostics segments, respectively. Includes $379 million of fourth quarter net litigation gain,
comprised of a $50 million expense in the Consumer segment and a gain of$429 million in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment. The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment
also includes a $536 million gain on thedivestiture of theProfessional Wound Care business of Ethicon, Inc.
(8)Long-lived assetsinclude property, plant and equipment, net for2010, 2009and 2008 of $14,553, $14,759 and $14,365, respectively, and intangible assetsand goodwill, netfor2010,
2009 and 2008 of $32,010, $31,185 and $27,695, respectively.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6119. Selected Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)
Selected unaudited quarterly financial data for theyears 2010and 2009 are summarized below:
_______________________2_0_10________________________ _______________________2_0_0_9______________________
First Second Third Fourth First Second Third Fourth
(Dollars in Millions Except PerShare Data) Quarter(1) Quarter(2) Quarter Quarter(3) Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter(4)
Segmentsales to customers
Consumer $ 3,766 3,647 3,567 3,610 3,711 3,854 3,989 4,249
Pharmaceutical 5,638 5,553 5,495 5,710 5,780 5,498 5,249 5,993
Med Devices & Diagnostics 6,227 6,130 5,920 6,324 5,535 5,887 5,843 6,309
Total sales $15,631 15,330 14,982 15,644 15,026 15,239 15,081 16,551
Gross profit 11,103 10,700 10,388 10,604 10,775 10,789 10,647 11,239
Earnings before provision for taxes on income 6,280 4,220 4,219 2,228 4,643 4,263 4,245 2,604
Net earnings 4,526 3,449 3,417 1,942 3,507 3,208 3,345 2,206
Basic net earnings per share $ 1.64 1.25 1.24 0.71 1.27 1.16 1.21 0.80
Diluted net earnings per share $ 1.62 1.23 1.23 0.70 1.26 1.15 1.20 0.79
(1)The firstquarter of 2010includes $910million after-taxof income from net litigation.
(2)The second quarter of 2010includes $67 million after-taxof income from net litigation.
(3)The fourth quarter of 2010includes an after-tax charge of $279 million from net litigation settlements, an after-tax charge of $404 million for product liability expense and an after-tax
charge of $239 million for the cost associated with theDePuy ASR™Hip recall program.
(4)The fourth quarterof2009 includes an after-tax charge of $852 millionfor restructuring and $212million after-taxof income from net litigation.
20. Business Combinations and Divestitures TheIPR&D related to the acquisition of Micrus Endovascular
Certain businesses were acquired for $1,269 million in cash and Corporation was $38 million and is associated with ischemic and
$52million of liabilities assumed during 2010. These acquisitions flow diverter technologies. Thevalue of the IPR&D was calculated
were accounted for by the purchase method and, accordingly, using cash flow projections discounted for therisk inherent in such
results of operations have been included in the financial statements projects. Probability of success factors ranging from 50–75% were
from their respective dates of acquisition. used to reflectinherent clinical and regulatory risk. Thediscount
The2010acquisitions included: Acclarent, Inc., a privately held rate applied was 14%.
medical technology company dedicated to designing, developing During 2010, the Company announced an agreement to
and commercializing devices that address conditions affecting the acquire all outstanding equity of Crucell N.V. that it does not already
ear, nose and throat(ENT); RespiVert Ltd., a privately held drug dis- own for approximately $2.3 billion in a cash tender offer. As of
covery company focused on developing small-molecule, inhaled January 2, 2011 the Company held approximately 18% of Crucell’s
therapies for thetreatment of pulmonary diseases and Micrus outstandingordinaryshares. Crucell is a global biopharmaceutical
Endovascular Corporation, a global developer and manufacturer of company focused on the research & development, production and
minimally invasive devices for hemorrhagic and ischemic stroke. marketing of vaccines and antibodies against infectious disease
The excess of purchase price over the estimated fair valueof worldwide. On February22, 2011, the Company announced that the
tangibleassets acquired amounted to $1,185 million and has been tender offer for Crucell has been completed and has declared the
assigned to identifiable intangible assets, with any residual recorded offer unconditional.
to goodwill. Of this amount, approximately $213 million has been Certain businesses were acquired for $2,470 million in cash
identified as the valueof IPR&D associated with the acquisitions of and $875 million of liabilities assumed and non-controlling interests
Acclarent, Inc., RespiVert Ltd. and Micrus Endovascular Corporation. during 2009. These acquisitions were accounted for by the
TheIPR&D related to the acquisition of Acclarent, Inc. was purchase method and, accordingly, results of operations have been
$75million and is associated with novel, endoscopic, catheter- included in the financial statements from their respective dates
based devices to meet the needs of ENT patients. Thevalue of the ofacquisition.
IPR&D was calculated using cash flow projections discounted for The2009 acquisitions included: Mentor Corporation, a leading
the risk inherentin such projects. Probability of success factors supplier of medical products for the global aesthetics market;
ranging from 50–53% were used to reflectinherent clinical and Cougar Biotechnology, Inc., a development stage biopharmaceutical
regulatory risk. Thediscount rate applied was 16%. company with a specific focus on oncology; Finsbury Orthopaedics
TheIPR&D related to the acquisition of RespiVert Ltd., was Limited, a privately held UK-based manufacturer and global distrib-
$100 million and is associated with narrow spectrum kinase utor of orthopaedic implants; Gloster Europe, a privately held
inhibitors with a unique profileof anti-inflammatory activities as developer of innovative disinfection processes and technologies to
treatments for moderate to severe asthma, Chronic Obstructive prevent healthcare-acquired infections and substantially all of the
Pulmonary Disease (COPD) and Cystic Fibrosis (CF). Thevalue of assets and rights of Elan’s Alzheimer’s Immunotherapy Program
the IPR&D was calculated using cash flow projections discounted through a newly formed company, of which the Company owns
for therisk inherentin such projects. Probability of success factors 50.1% and Elan owns 49.9%.
ranging from 10–12% were used to reflectinherent clinical and
regulatory risk. Thediscount rate applied was 17%.
62 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTTheexcess of purchase price over the estimated fair value of Theexcess of purchase price over the estimated fair value of
tangible assets acquired amounted to $2,940 million andhas been tangible assets acquired amounted to $891 million and has been
assigned to identifiable intangibleassets, with any residual recorded assigned to identifiable intangibleassets, with any residual recorded
to goodwill. Of this amount, approximately $1,737 million has been to goodwill. Approximately $181 million has been identified as the
identified as the value of IPR&D primarily associated with the value of IPR&D associated with the acquisitions of Omrix Biophar-
acquisitions of Cougar Biotechnology, Inc. and substantially all of maceuticals, Inc., Amic AB, SurgRx, Inc. and HealthMedia, Inc.
the assets and rights of Elan’s Alzheimer’s Immunotherapy Program. TheIPR&D charge related to the acquisition of Omrix Biophar-
Additionally, approximately $1,107 million has been identified as the maceuticals, Inc. was $127 million and is associated with stand-
value of other intangible assets, including patents & technology and alone and combination biosurgical technologies used to achieve
customer relationships primarily associated with the acquisition of hemostasis. Thevalue of the IPR&D was calculated using cash flow
Mentor Corporation. projections discounted for therisk inherentin such projects.
The IPR&D related to the acquisition of Cougar Biotechnology, Probability of success factors ranging from 60–90%were used to
Inc. was $971 million and is associated with abiraterone acetate, a reflectinherent clinical and regulatory risk. Thediscount rate
late stage, first-in-class compound for the treatment of prostate can- applied was 14%.
cer. The valueof the IPR&D was calculated using cash flow projec- TheIPR&D charge related to the acquisition of Amic AB was
tions discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. Probability of $40 million and is associated with point-of-care device and 4CAST
success factors ranging from 60–85% were used to reflect inherent Chip technologies. Thevalue of the IPR&D was calculated using
clinical and regulatory risk. The discount rate applied was 23.5%. cash flow projections discounted for therisk inherent in such
During 2009, the Company acquired substantially all of the projects. Thediscount rate applied was 20%.
assets and rights of Elan’s Alzheimer’s Immunotherapy Program TheIPR&D charge related to the acquisition of SurgRx, Inc. was
through a newly formed company, Janssen Alzheimer Immunother- $7 million and is associated with vessel cutting and sealing surgical
apy (JAI), of which the Company owns 50.1% and Elan owns 49.9%. devices. Thevalue of the IPR&D was calculated using cash flow pro-
In addition, the Company purchased approximately 107 million jections discounted for therisk inherentin such projects. Probability
newly issued American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) of Elan, repre- of success factors ranging from 90–95% were used to reflectinher-
senting 18.4%of Elan’s outstanding ordinaryshares. Aspart of this ent clinical and regulatory risk. Thediscount rate applied was 18%.
transaction, the Company paid $885 million to Elan and committed TheIPR&D charge related to the acquisition of HealthMedia,
to fundup to $250 million of Elan’s share of research and develop- Inc. was $7 million and is associated primarily with process
ment spending by JAI. Of this total consideration of $1,135 million, enhancements to software technology. Thevalue of the IPR&D
$793 million represents the fair value of the 18.4%investment in wascalculated using cash flow projections discounted for therisk
Elan based on Elan’s share price in an actively traded market as of inherentin such projects. Aprobability of success factor of 90%
the date of this transaction. TheIPR&D related to this transaction was used to reflectinherentrisk. Thediscount rate applied was 14%.
was $679 million and is associated with bapineuzumab, a potential Supplemental pro forma information for 2010, 2009 and 2008
first-in-class treatment thatis beingevaluated for slowing the pro- in accordance with U.S. GAAP standards related to business combi-
gression of Alzheimer’s Disease. Thevalue of the IPR&D was calcu- nations, and goodwill and other intangible assets, is not provided,
lated using cash flow projections discounted for therisk inherentin asthe impact of the aforementioned acquisitions did not have a
such projects. Probability of success factors ranging from 40–50% material effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows
were used to reflectinherent clinical and regulatory risk. Thedis- or financial position.
count rate applied was 26%. Thenon-controlling interest related to With the exception of the divestiture of the Breast Care
this transaction was $590 million, which the Company has recorded Business of Ethicon Endo-Surgery Inc., for which thegain is recorded
in other non-current liabilities. in other (income) expense in 2010, and the divestiture of the Profes-
Certain businesses were acquired for $1,214 million in cash and sional Wound Care business of Ethicon, Inc., which resulted in a
$114 million ofliabilities assumed during 2008. These acquisitions gainof $536 million before tax, and is recorded in other (income)
were accounted for by the purchase method and, accordingly, expense, net, in 2008, divestitures in 2010, 2009 and 2008 did not
results of operations have been included in the financial statements have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash
from their respective dates of acquisition. flows or financial position.
The2008 acquisitions included: Amic AB, a privately held
Swedish developer of in vitro diagnostic technologies for use in
point-of-care and near-patient settings; Beijing Dabao Cosmetics
Co., Ltd., acompany that sells personal care brands in China;
SurgRx, Inc., a privately held developer of the advanced bipolar
tissue sealing system used in the ENSEAL®family of devices;
HealthMedia, Inc., a privately held company that creates web-based
behavior change interventions; LGE Performance Systems, Inc., a
privately held company known as Human Performance Institute™,
which develops science-based training programs to improve
employee engagement and productivity and Omrix Biopharmaceuti-
cals, Inc., afully integrated biopharmaceutical company that devel-
ops and markets biosurgical andimmunotherapy products.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6321. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS and the Company. Post-trialmotions challenging the verdictwill be
PRODUCT LIABILITY filed, and if unsuccessful, will be followed by an appeal. TheCom-
TheCompany’s subsidiaries are involved in numerous product pany believes that it has strong arguments supporting an appeal.
liability cases in the United States, many of which concern alleged TheCompany believes that the potential for an unfavorable out-
adverse reactions to drugs andmedical devices. Thedamages comeis not probable, therefore, it has not established a reserve with
claimed are substantial, and while the Company is confident of the respectto the verdict.In the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania suit
adequacy of the warnings and instructions for usethat accompany against Janssen, trial commenced in June 2010. TheJudge dis-
such products, it is not feasible to predictthe ultimate outcomeof missed the case after the close of the plaintiff’s evidence. TheCom-
litigation. TheCompany has established product liability reserves monwealth has filed post-trialmotions which are pending. Other
based on currently available information, which in somecases may cases scheduled for trial are in South Carolina, currently scheduled
be limited and changes to the reserves may be required in the future in March 2011, and Texas scheduled in June 2011.
as additional information becomes available. In August 2010, DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. (DePuy) announced
Multiple products of Johnson &Johnson subsidiaries are sub- a worldwide voluntary recall of its ASR™XLAcetabular System
jectto numerous product liability claims and lawsuits. There are a andDePuyASR™Hip Resurfacing System used in hip replacement
significant number of claimants who have pending lawsuits or surgery. Claims for personal injury have been made against the
claims regarding injuries allegedly due to ORTHO EVRA®, Company. TheCompany has received limited information to date
RISPERDAL®, LEVAQUIN®, DURAGESIC®, the CHARITÉ™Artificial with respectto potential claims and other costs associated with this
Disc, CYPHER®Stent, and ASR™Hip. Theseclaimants seek sub- recall. TheCompany’s product liability reserve has been increased in
stantial compensatory and, where available, punitive damages. part due to anticipated product liability expense, and costs associ-
With respectto RISPERDAL®, the Attorneys General of multi- ated with the DePuyASR™Hip recall. However, at this point in time,
ple states and the Office of General Counsel of the Commonwealth theCompany cannot estimate the range of reasonably possible
of Pennsylvania have filed actions seeking reimbursement of Medic- losses with respect to this matter and changes to the reserve may be
aid or other public funds for RISPERDAL®prescriptions written for required in the future as additional information becomes available.
off-label use, compensation for treating their citizens for alleged
adverse reactions to RISPERDAL®, civil fines or penalties, damages PATENT LITIGATION
for “overpayments” by the state and others, punitive damages, or Theproducts of various Johnson & Johnson subsidiaries are the
other relief. TheAttorney General of Texas has joined a qui tam subject of various patent lawsuits, the outcomes of which could
action in that state seeking similar relief. Certain of these actions potentially adversely affect the ability of those subsidiaries to
also seek injunctive relief relating to the promotion of RISPERDAL®. sellthose products, or require the payment of past damages and
TheAttorneys General of approximately 40 other states have indi- future royalties.
cated a potential interest in pursuing similar litigation against the On January 29, 2010, Cordis Corporation (Cordis) settled a
Company’s subsidiary, Janssen Pharmaceutica Inc. (Janssen) (now patent infringement action against Boston Scientific Corporation
Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc. (OMJPI)), and have (Boston Scientific) in Delaware Federal District Court accusing its
obtained a tolling agreement staying the running of the statute of Express2™, Taxus®and Liberte®stents of infringing the Palmaz and
limitations while they pursue a coordinated civil investigation of Gray patents. Under the terms of the settlement, Boston Scientific
OMJPI regarding potential consumer fraud actions in connection dropped its lawsuit in which Cordis’ CYPHER®stent was foundto
with the marketing of RISPERDAL®. In addition, there are six cases have infringed their Jang patent and paid Cordis $1.0 billion on Feb-
filed by union health plans seeking damages for alleged overpay- ruary 1, 2010. Boston Scientific also agreed to pay Cordis an addi-
ments for RISPERDAL®, several of which seek certification as class tional $725million plus interest by January 3, 2011. On August 2,
actions. One of these has been dismissed on Summary Judgment. 2010, Boston Scientific paid the full $725 million plus interest. The
Inthe casebroughtby the Attorney General of West Virginia, based Company recorded the $1.7 billion in thefiscal first quarter of 2010.
on claims for alleged consumer fraud as to DURAGESIC®as well as Cordis granted Boston Scientific a worldwide license under the
RISPERDAL®, Janssen (now OMJPI) was foundliable and damages Palmaz and Gray patents and Boston Scientific granted Cordis a
were assessed at $4.5 million. OMJPI filed an appeal. TheWest Vir- worldwide license under the Jang patents for all stents sold by
ginia Supreme Court accepted Janssen’s appeal from that Judgment Cordis exceptthe 2.25mm size CYPHER®.
and the appeal was argued in September 2010. In October 2010, the Cordis has several pending lawsuits in the New Jersey and
West Virginia Supreme Court unanimously reversed the trial court’s Delaware Federal District Courts, against Guidant Corporation
decision. In December 2010, the Attorney General dismissed the (Guidant), Abbott Laboratories, Inc. (Abbott), Boston Scientific
case as it related to RISPERDAL®without any payment. Thereafter, andMedtronic Ave, Inc. (Medtronic) allegingthat the Xience V™
the Company settled the case insofar as it related to DURAGESIC®. (Abbott), Promus™(Boston Scientific) and Endeavor®(Medtronic)
In September and October 2010, a falseclaimsuitbrought under a drug eluting stents infringe several patents owned by or licensed to
Louisiana statute was tried. The jury returned a verdict of $257.7mil- Cordis. On January 20, 2010, in one of the cases against Boston
lion in favor of that State’s Attorney General and against Janssen Scientific, alleging that sales of their Promus™stent infringed
64 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTWright and Falotico patents,the District Court in Delaware found infringed and entered judgment against JJVC. JJVC appealed that
the Wright/Falotico patentinvalid for lack of written description judgment to the Court of Appeals for theFederal Circuit. On April
and/or lack of enablement. Cordis has appealed this ruling. 27, 2010, the District Court denied CIBA’s motion to permanently
In January 2011, a jury in the Eastern Districtof Texas returned enjoin the infringing lenses. CIBA appealed this ruling and its appeal
a verdictfinding that Cordis’ sales of its CYPHER®stent willfully was consolidated with JJVC’s appeal on the merits. CIBA brought
infringed a patentissued to plaintiff, Bruce Saffran: Saffran v. Cordis suit against JJVC under its counterparts to the Nicholson patents in
(E.D. Tx.). Thejury awarded plaintiff $482 million. Cordis has various European countries. In the Netherlands andFrance the
alleged thatplaintiff’s patent is invalid or unenforceable under the patents were found valid and infringed and JJVC was enjoined from
doctrine of inequitable conduct. Abench trial on this issue is selling OASYS™. Both those decisions were appealed. In France the
expected to take place in March 2011. If unsuccessful on this appeal was denied. In the Netherlands the appeal was pending.
defense, the Company will seek to overturn the verdictthrough CIBA’s patents were foundto beinvalid in Germany, the UK and
post-trialmotions, and on appeal if necessary. Since the Company Austria and CIBAappealed those decisions. In January 2011 the
believes that the potential for an unfavorable outcomeis not proba- parties settled all pending lawsuits and appeals in the contact lens
ble, it has not established a reserve with respectto the case. field worldwide and entered in cross-licenses of various patents
In October 2004, Tyco Healthcare Group, LP, (Tyco) and U.S. pertinent to the contact lens fieldincluding the Nicholson patents.
Surgical Corporation sued Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (EES) alleging Theinjunctions in France and the Netherlands have been lifted.
that several features of EES’s harmonic scalpel infringed four Tyco In May 2009, Abbott Biotechnology Ltd. (Abbott) filed a
patents. InOctober 2007, the court granted in part and denied in patent infringement lawsuit against Centocor (now COBI) in the
part cross-motions for summary judgment. As a result of the opin- United States District Court for theDistrict of Massachusetts. The
ion, a number of claims have been found invalid and a number have suit alleges that Centocor’s SIMPONI®product, a human anti-TNF
been found infringed. No claim has been found valid and infringed. alpha antibody, infringes Abbott’s ’394 patent (the Salfeld patent).
Trialcommenced in December 2007, and the court dismissed the Thecasewas stayed pending the resolution of an arbitration filed by
case without prejudice on grounds that Tyco did notown the Centocor directed to its claim thatit is licensed under the ’394
patents in suit. Thedismissal without prejudice was affirmed on patent. In June 2010, the Arbitrator ruled thatCentocor did not have
appeal. In January 2010, Tyco filed another complaint in the District a license to the patents-in-suit. Thematter will proceed before the
of Connecticut asserting three of the four patents from the previous District Court of Massachusetts on the issues of infringement and
suit and adding new products. This caseis scheduled to betried in validity of the Abbott patents.
October 2011. In August 2009, Abbott GmbH & Co. (Abbott GmbH) and
In May 2008, Centocor, Inc. (now Centocor Ortho Biotech Inc. Abbott Bioresearch Center filed apatent infringement lawsuit
(COBI)) filed a lawsuit against Genentech, Inc. (Genentech) in against Centocor (now COBI) in the United States District Court
U.S.District Court for theCentral District of California seekingto forthe District of Massachusetts. Thesuit alleges that COBI’s
invalidate the CabillyII patent. Prior to filing suit, COBI had a STELARA®product infringes two U.S. patents assigned to Abbott
sublicense under this patent from Celltech (who was licensed GmbH. In August 2009, COBIfiled a complaint for a declaratory
byGenentech) for REMICADE®and had been paying royalties judgment of non-infringement and invalidity of the Abbott GmbH
toCelltech. COBIhas terminated that sublicense and stopped patents in the United States District Court for theDistrict of
paying royalties. Genentech has filed acounterclaim alleging Columbia. On the same date, also in the United States District Court
thatREMICADE®infringes its Cabilly II patents. Genentech has for theDistrict of Columbia, COBI filed a Complaint for Review of a
droppedall its other claims that the manufacture of REMICADE®, Patent Interference Decision granting priority of invention on one
STELARA®, SIMPONI®and ReoPro®also infringes one of its other ofthe two asserted patents to Abbott GmbH. In August 2009,
patents relating to thepurification of antibodies made through Abbott GmbHand Abbott Laboratories Limited brought a patent
recombinant DNAtechniques. Thecourt conducted a hearing on infringement suit in TheFederal Court of Canada alleging that
Summary Judgment Motions in August 2010. Shortly thereafter STELARA®infringes Abbott GmbH’s Canadian patent. The
theparties settled this case with COBI receiving license under the Canadian case is scheduled to betried in October 2012. Thecases
Cabilly II patent. filed by COBI in the District of Columbia have been transferred to
In January 2011, Genentech initiated an arbitration against the District of Massachusetts. Discovery in this case is ongoing.
Celltech seeking damages for allegedly cooperating with COBI In August 2009, Bayer HealthCare LLC (Bayer) filed suit
toimproperly terminate a prior agreement in which COBIwas against COBI in Massachusetts District Court alleging infringement
sublicensed under the Cabilly patents. COBI has an indemnity by COBI’s SIMPONI®product of its patent relating to human anti-
agreement with Celltech, and Celltech has asserted that COBI is TNF antibodies. On January 28, 2011, the court issued judgment dis-
liable for any damages Celltech may be required to pay Genentech, missing Bayer’s infringement claims. Bayer may appeal this ruling.
in that arbitration. InNovember 2009, Bayer also filed suit under its European counter-
In April 2009, a bench trial was held before the Federal District part to these patents in Germany and the Netherlands. Thecourt
Court for the Middle District of Florida on the liability phase of CIBA inthe Netherlands held the Dutch patentinvalid in a parallel case
VISION Corporation’s (CIBA) patent infringement lawsuit alleging Bayer broughtagainst Abbott. TheDutch court subsequently
that Johnson & Johnson Vision Care, Inc.’s (JJVC) ACUVUE® entered judgment in favor of the European Centocor affiliate and
OASYS™lenses infringe three of their Nicholson patents. In August Bayer appealed that judgment in the Netherlands. Theinfringement
2009, the District Court foundtwo of thesepatents valid and trial in Germany is scheduled to begin in August of 2011.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 65In June 2009, Centocor’s (now COBI) lawsuit alleging that $1.9billion, inclusive of interest was entered in favor of Centocor in
Abbott’s HUMIRA®anti-TNF alpha product infringes Centocor’s December 2009, and Abbott filed an appeal to the Court of Appeals
’775 patent went to trial in Federal District Court in the Eastern Dis- for theFederal Circuit;therefore the Company has not reflected any
trict of Texas. On June 28, 2009 a jury returned a verdict finding the of the $1.9 billion in its consolidated financial statements. Theoral
patent valid and willfully infringed, and awarded Centocor damages argumenton appeal was held on November 2, 2010. In December
of approximately $1.7 billion. A bench trial on Abbott’s defenses, 2009, Centocor also filed a new lawsuit in the Eastern District of
ofinequitableconductand prosecution laches, was held in August Texas seeking damages for infringement of the ’775 patent attribut-
2009, and the District Court decided these issues in favor of Cento- able to sales of HUMIRA®subsequent to the jury verdictin June
cor. All of Abbott’s post trial motions have been denied except that 2009. On February 23, 2011, the Court of Appeals reversed the June
the District Court granted Abbott’s motion to overturn the jury 2009 decision and the $1.9 billion judgement of the District Court.
finding of willfulness. Judgment in the amount of approximately
Thefollowing chart summarizes various patent lawsuits concerning products of the Company’s subsidiaries that have yet to
proceedtotrial:
J&J Plaintiff/
Product Company Patents Patent Holder Court TrialDate** Date Filed
CYPHER®Stent Cordis Wall Wall E.D. TX Q2/11 11/07
CYPHER®Stent Cordis Saffran Saffran E.D. TX *Trial concluded 10/07
Blood Glucose Meters and Strips LifeScan Wilsey Roche Diagnostics D. DE * 11/07
SIMPONI® Centocor/COBI Salfeld Abbott Laboratories MA * 05/09
SIMPONI® Centocor/COBI Boyle Bayer Healthcare MA *** 08/09
STELARA® Centocor/COBI Salfeld Abbott GmbH MA * 08/09
*Trial date to be scheduled.
**Q reflects the Company’s fiscal quarter.
***Summary judgment granted.
LITIGATION AGAINST FILERS OFABBREVIATED NEW DRUG non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability of these patents.
APPLICATIONS (ANDAs) In the event the subsidiary of the Company involved is not success-
Thefollowing chart indicates lawsuits pending against generic firms ful in these actions, or the statutory 30-month stay expires before
that filed Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDAs) seeking aruling from the District Court is obtained, the firms involved will
tomarket generic forms of products sold by various subsidiaries of have the ability, upon FDA approval, to introduce generic versions
the Company prior to expiration of the applicable patents covering ofthe product at issue resulting in very substantial market share
those products. TheseANDAs typically include allegations of andrevenue losses for theproduct of the Company’s subsidiary.
As noted in the following chart, 30-month stays expired during 2009, 2010, and will expire in 2011, 2012 and 2013 with respectto
ANDA challenges regarding various products:
Brand Name Patent/NDA Generic Trial Date 30-Month
Product Holder Challenger Court Date** Filed Stay Expiration
CONCERTA® Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Andrx D. DE Q4/07 09/05 None
18, 27, 36 and 54 mg controlled ALZA KUDCO D. DE * 01/10 05/12
release tablet Impax and Teva D. DE * 11/10 04/13
LEVAQUIN®250, 500, 750 mg tablet Ortho-McNeil Lupin D. NJ * 10/06 03/09
ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN®LO Ortho-McNeil Watson D. NJ * 10/08 03/11
0.18 mg/0.025 mg, 0.215 mg/0.025 mg Sandoz D. NJ * 10/11
and 0.25 mg/0.025 mg Lupin D. NJ * 01/10 06/12
Mylan D. NJ * 11/10 04/13
ULTRAM ER®100, 200, 300 mg tablet Ortho-McNeil/Biovail Par D. DE Q2/09 05/07 09/09
06/07 11/09
10/07 03/10
ULTRAM ER®100, 200, 300 mg tablet Ortho-McNeil/Biovail Impax D. DE 08/08 01/11
11/08 03/11
ULTRAM ER®100, 200, 300 mg tablet Ortho-McNeil/Biovail Paddock D. MN * 09/09 01/12
ULTRAM ER®100, 200, 300 mg tablet Ortho-McNeil/Biovail Cipher D. DE * 10/09 03/12
ULTRAM ER®100, 200, 300 mg tablet Ortho-McNeil/Biovail Lupin D. DE * 01/10 06/12
PREZISTA® Tibotec Mylan D. NJ * 11/10 12/13
Tibotec Lupin D. NJ * 11/10 12/13
*Trial date to be scheduled.
**Q reflects the Company’s fiscal quarter.
66 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTIn October 2008, the Company’s subsidiary Ortho-McNeil- In the ULTRAM®ERactions, Ortho-McNeil, Inc. (now OMJPI),
Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (OMJPI) filed suitin Federal District filed lawsuits (each for different dosages) in the U.S. District Court
Court in New Jersey against Watson Laboratories, Inc. (Watson) in of Delaware against Par Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Par Pharmaceuti-
response to Watson’s ANDA regarding ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN®LO. cals Companies, Inc. (Par) in May, June and October 2007, on two
In June 2009, OMJPI filed suit in Federal District Court in New Tramadol ERformulation patents owned by Purdue Pharma Prod-
Jersey against Sandoz Laboratories, Inc. (Sandoz) in response to ucts L.P. (Purdue) and Napp Pharmaceutical Group Ltd. (Napp).
Sandoz’s ANDA regarding ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN®LO. TheSandoz OMJPI also filed lawsuits (each for different dosages) against Impax
and Watson cases have been consolidated. In September 2010, Laboratories, Inc. (Impax) on a Tramadol ER formulation patent
OMJPI entered into asettlement agreement with Sandoz. owned by Purdue and Napp in August and November 2008. Purdue,
In January 2010, theCompany’s subsidiary OMJPI filed suit in Napp and Biovail Laboratories International SRL (Biovail) (the NDA
Federal District Court in New Jersey against Lupin Ltd. and Lupin holder) joined as co-plaintiffs inthe lawsuits against Par and Impax,
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (collectively Lupin) in response to Lupin’s but Biovail and OMJPI were subsequently dismissed for lack of
ANDA regarding ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN®LO. The Lupin case has been standing. Thetrial against Par took place in April 2009. In August
consolidated with the Watson case (discussed above). In November 2009, the Court issued a decision finding the patents-in-suit invalid.
2010, theCompany’s subsidiary OMJPIfiled suit in Federal District Purdue has appealed that decision. In November 2009, the case
Court in New Jersey against Mylan Inc. and Mylan Pharmaceuticals, against Impax was stayed with the consent of all parties. In Septem-
Inc. (collectively Mylan), and Famy Care, Ltd., in response to Famy ber and October 2009, respectively, Purdue filed suits against
Care’s ANDA regarding ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN®LO. Paddock Laboratories, Inc. (Paddock) and Cipher Pharmaceuticals
In the action by McNEIL-PPC, Inc. (McNeil-PPC) and ALZA Cor- Inc. (Cipher) on its Tramadol ER formulation patents. In June 2010,
poration (ALZA) against Andrx Corporation (Andrx) with respect to the Federal Circuit Court affirmed the District Court’s decision in the
its ANDA challenge to the CONCERTA®patents, a five-day non-jury Parcase. Thecaseagainst Cipher, Impax and Paddock were dis-
trial was held in the Federal District Court in Delaware in December missed based on the collateral estoppel effect of the Par decision.
2007. In March 2009, the court ruled that one CONCERTA®patent In January 2010, Purdue filed a suit against Lupin Ltd. on its
would not be infringed by Andrx’s proposed generic product and that Tramadol ER formulation patents.
thepatent was invalidbecause itwas notenabled. The court dis- In November 2010, theCompany’s subsidiary Tibotec, Inc.
missed without prejudice Andrx’s declaratory judgment suit on a sec- (Tibotec) filed suit in Federal District Court in New Jersey against
ond patent for lack of jurisdiction. McNeil-PPC and ALZA filed an Lupin, Ltd., Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (collectively Lupin), Mylan,
appeal in May 2009. The appeals court heard argument on February Inc. and Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (collectively Mylan) in response
3, 2010. On April 26, 2010, the court of appeals affirmed the judg- to Lupin’s and Mylan’s respective ANDA’s regardingPREZISTA®.
ment of the district court that the patent is invalidbecause it is not In January 2011, Tibotec, Inc. (Tibotec) received a Paragraph IV
enabled. The court did not reach the issue of infringement. Notification fromTeva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. advising that Teva has
In January 2010, ALZA and OMJPI filed suit in Federal District filed anANDA seeking approval to market a generic PREZISTA®
Court in Delaware against Kremers-Urban, LLC and KUDCO Ireland, product before the expiration of certain patents owned or licensed
Ltd. (KUDCO) in response to KUDCO’s ANDA challenge regarding by Tibotec. Tibotec is evaluating this Notification.
CONCERTA®tablets. In its notice letter, KUDCO contends that two
ALZA patents for CONCERTA®are invalid and not infringed by a GENERAL LITIGATION
KUDCO generic. One patent has since been dropped from the case. In September 2004, plaintiffs in an employment discrimination
In November 2010, ALZA and OMJPI filed suit in Federal litigation initiated against the Company in 2001 in Federal District
District Court in Delaware against Impax Laboratories, Inc., Teva Court in New Jersey moved to certify a class of all African American
Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc.and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd. and Hispanic salaried employees of the Company and its affiliates in
in response to notice from Impaxthat itmade a major amendment the U.S., who were employed at any time from November 1997 to
to its ANDA with respectto its 56 mgdosegeneric version of the present. Plaintiffs seek monetary damages for theperiod 1997
CONCERTA®. In its notice letter describing its major amendment, through the present (including punitive damages) and equitable
Impax contends thata CONCERTA®patent is invalid and not relief. TheCourt denied plaintiffs’ class certification motion in
infringed by its proposed generic version. December 2006 and their motion for reconsideration in April 2007.
In the action against Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Lupin) Plaintiffs sought to appeal these decisions and, in April 2008, the
regarding its ANDA concerning LEVAQUIN®, Lupin contended that Court of Appeals ruled that plaintiffs’ appeal of the denial of class
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office improperly granted a patent certification was untimely. In July 2009, plaintiffs filed a motion for
term extension to the patentthatOrtho-McNeil, Inc. (now Ortho- certification of a modified class, which the Company opposed. The
McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (OMJPI)) licenses from districtcourt denied plaintiffs’ motion in July 2010, and the Court
Daiichi Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Daiichi). Lupin alleged that theactive ofAppeals denied plaintiffs’ request for leave to appeal the denial
ingredientin LEVAQUIN®was the subject of prior marketing, and ofcertification of the modified class. TheCompany will continue to
therefore was not eligible for thepatent term extension. Lupin con- defend against the plaintiffs’ individual claims of discrimination.
ceded validity and that its product wouldviolate the patent if mar- In September 2009, Centocor Ortho Biotech Products, L.P.
keted prior to the expiration of the original patent term. Summary (COBLP) intervened in an inventorship dispute between Kansas
judgment against Lupin was granted in May 2009 and Lupin University Center for Research (KUCR) involving certain U.S.
appealed. Oral argument was held in September 2009. In May Government-owned VELCADE®formulation patents. KUCR brought
2010, the Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment of the trial court this action against the U.S. Government in the District of Kansas seek-
in favor of Ortho-McNeil (now OMJPI) and Daiichi that the patent ing to add two Kansas University scientists to the patents. The U.S.
term extension covering LEVAQUIN®(levofloxacin) is valid. Government licensed the patents (and their foreign counterparts)
Thereafter, Lupin requested rehearing en banc, which was denied. toMillennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (MPI), who in turn sublicensed
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 67thepatents (and their foreigncounterparts) to COBI for commercial federal court, have been consolidated for pre-trial purposes in a
marketing outside the U.S. If KUCR succeeds in its co-inventorship Multi-District Litigation (MDL) in Federal District Court in Boston,
claim and establishes co-ownership in the U.S. VELCADE®formula- Massachusetts. The plaintiffs in these cases include classes of pri-
tion patents, there is a potential for the same issue to arise with vate persons or entities that paid for any portionof the purchase of
respect to the foreigncounterparts of thepatents. If KUCR is suc- thedrugs at issue based on AWP, and state government entities that
cessful, this may adversely affect COBI’s license rights inthose coun- made Medicaid payments for the drugs at issue based on AWP.
tries.In May 2010, the parties reached an agreement to resolve the TheMDL Court identified classes of Massachusetts-only pri-
disputes in this case and will submit the inventorship issue to arbitra- vate insurers providing “Medi-gap” insurance coverage and private
tion, andthe casehas been stayed pending the arbitration. IfKUCR payers for physician-administered drugs where payments were
wins the arbitration, the parties will request that the Court issue an based on AWP (Class 2 and Class 3), and a national class of
order to correct inventorship on the relevantpatents; if the U.S. individuals who made co-payments for physician-administered
Government, COBI, and MPI prevail,the case will be dismissed drugs covered by Medicare (Class 1). A trial of the two Massachu-
withprejudice. setts-only class actions concludedbefore the MDL Court in Decem-
In February 2009, Basilea Pharmaceutica AG (Basilea) brought ber 2006. In June 2007, the MDL Court issued post-trialrulings,
an arbitration against Johnson & Johnson, Johnson & Johnson dismissing the Johnson & Johnson defendants from the caseregard-
Pharmaceutical Research & Development, L.L.C. and Cilag GmbH ingall claims of Classes 2 and 3, and subsequently of Class 1 as well.
International alleging that the Company breached the 2005 License Plaintiffs appealed the Class 1 judgment and, in September 2009,
Agreement for Ceftobiprole by, among other things, failing to secure the Court of Appeals vacated the judgmentand remanded for
FDA approval of the cSSSI (skin) indication and allegedly failing to further proceedings in the DistrictCourt. TheJohnson & Johnson
properly develop the pneumonia indication. In November 2010, the defendants then filed a motion for summary judgment with regard
arbitration panel issued its decision and the Company has satisfied to Class 1, which the District Court granted in part and denied in
the damages award. part. Subsequently, the Johnson & Johnson defendants filed a
In May 2009, COBI commenced an arbitration proceeding motion challenging the adequacy of Plaintiffs’ proposed class
before the American Arbitration Association against Schering-Plough representative, which is pending.
Corporation and its subsidiarySchering-Plough (Ireland) Company AWP cases broughtby various Attorneys General have pro-
(collectively, Schering-Plough).COBI and Schering-Plough are ceeded to trial against other manufacturers. Three state cases
parties to a series of agreements (Distribution Agreements) that against certain of the Company’s subsidiaries have been set for
grant Schering-Plough the exclusive right to distribute the drugs trial:Idaho in October 2011, Kentucky in January 2012 and
REMICADE®and SIMPONI®worldwide, exceptwithin the United KansasinMarch 2013. Other state cases are likely to beset for
States, Japan, Taiwan, Indonesia, and the People’s Republic of trialin thecoming year. In addition, an AWP case against the
China(including Hong Kong) (the Territory). COBI distributes Johnson &Johnson defendants broughtby the state of Pennsylvania
REMICADE®and SIMPONI®, the next generation treatment, within was tried in Commonwealth Court in October and November 2010.
the United States. In the arbitration, COBI seeks a declaration that TheCourt found in the State’s favor with regard to certain of its
the agreement and merger between Merck & Co., Inc. (Merck)and claims under the Pennsylvania Unfair Trade Practices and Consumer
Schering-Plough constitutes a change of control under theterms of Protection Law, entered an injunction, and awarded $45 million in
the Distribution Agreements that permits COBI to terminate the restitution and $6.5 million in civil penalties. TheCourt found in the
Agreements. Thetermination of the Distribution Agreements would Johnson &Johnson defendants favor on theState’s claims of Unjust
return to COBI the right to distribute REMICADE®and SIMPONI® Enrichment, Misrepresentation/Fraud, Civil Conspiracy, and on
within the Territory. Schering-Plough has filed a response to COBI’s certain of the State’s claims under the Pennsylvania Unfair Trade
arbitration demand that denies that it has undergone a change of Practices and Consumer Protection Law. Theparties are currently
control. Thearbitrators were selected and the evidentiary portion of engaged in post trialbriefing, which will be followed by an appeal
the hearing was concluded in October 2010. Oral argument was tothe Pennsylvania Supreme Court ifnecessary. TheCompany
held in late 2010. A decision is expected during the first half of 2011. believes that it has strong arguments supporting an appeal. The
In December 2009, the State of Israel (Sheba Medical Center) Company believes that the potential for an unfavorable outcome
filed suit in the District Court in Tel Aviv Jaffa against various Omrix isnot probable, therefore, it has not established a reserve with
affiliates. In the lawsuit, the State claims that an employee of a respectto the verdict.
government-owned hospital was the inventor on several patents In April 2010, a lawsuit was filed in the United States District
related to fibrin glue technology, that he developed while he was a Court for theNorthern District of California against the Company,
government employee. TheState claims that he had no right to Omnicare, Inc., and other unidentified companies or individuals. The
transfer any intellectual property to Omrix because it belongs to the Company filed a motion to dismiss. Plaintiffs then filed an amended
State. TheState is seeking damages plus royalty on QUIXIL™and complaint. Theamended complaint asserts that defendants
EVICEL™or, alternatively, transfer of the patents to the State. engaged in an unlawful trying arrangement in violation of the Sher-
man Act and the California Business and Professions Code. The
AVERAGE WHOLESALE PRICE(AWP)LITIGATION amended complaint also asserted claims of unjust enrichment and
The Company and several of its pharmaceutical subsidiaries, along civil conspiracy. TheCompany moved to dismiss the amended com-
with numerous other pharmaceutical companies, are defendants in plaint. On January 13, 2011, the court granted the Company’s motion
aseries of lawsuits in state and federal courts involving allegations to dismiss as to all causes of action in the amended complaint, and
that the pricing and marketing of certain pharmaceutical products granted plaintiffs’ leave to filean amended complaint.
amounted to fraudulent and otherwise actionable conduct because, Johnson & Johnson has been named the nominal defendant in
among other things,thecompanies allegedly reported an inflated six shareholder derivative lawsuits in the U.S. District Court for the
Average Wholesale Price (AWP) for the drugs at issue. Many of District of New Jersey on behalf of Company shareholders against
thesecases, both federal actions andstate actions removed to certain current and former directors and officers of the Company
68 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTderivatively on behalf of the Company: Calamore v. Coleman et. al., Inaddition the settlement included a civil payment, part of which
filed April 21, 2010; Carpenters Pension Fund of West Virginia v. was paid to the federal government and part of which was paid or
Weldon, et. al., filed May 5, 2010; Feldman v. Coleman, et. al., filed set aside for payment tostates for their Medicaidprograms.
May 6, 2010; Hawaii Laborers Pension Fund v. Weldon, et. al., filed In January 2004, JanssenPharmaceutica Inc.(now OMJPI)
May 14, 2010; Ryan v. Weldon, et. al., filed June 18, 2010; and Min- received a subpoena from the Office of the InspectorGeneral of the
neapolis Firefighters’ Relief Association, NECA-IBEW Pension Trust U.S. Office of Personnel Management seeking documents concerning
Fund, and NECA-IBEW Welfare Trust Fund v. Weldon, et. al., filed sales and marketingof, any and all payments to physicians in connec-
June 24, 2010. Theseactions were consolidated on August 17, 2010 tion with salesandmarketingof, and clinical trials for, RISPERDAL®
into onelawsuit: In re Johnson & Johnson Shareholder Derivative (risperidone) from 1997 to 2002. Documents subsequent to 2002
Litigation. An amended consolidated complaint was filed on have also been requested. An additional subpoenaseeking informa-
December 17, 2010. An additional derivative suit was filed in the U.S. tion about marketingofand adverse reactions to RISPERDAL®was
District Court for theDistrict of New Jersey on December 1, 2010: received from the U.S. Attorney’s Office forthe Eastern Districtof
Copeland v. Mulcahy, et al. That lawsuit has been consolidated into Pennsylvania inNovember 2005. Subpoenas seeking testimony from
the In re Johnson & Johnson Shareholder Derivative Litigation. Addi- various witnesses before a grand jury have also been received.
tionally, Johnson & Johnson has been named the nominal defendant Janssen is cooperating in responding to ongoing requests fordocu-
in a shareholder derivative lawsuit in New Jersey Superior Court on ments and witnesses. The government is continuing to actively
behalf of Company shareholders against certain current and former investigate this matter. In February 2010, the governmentserved Civil
directors and officers of the Company derivatively on behalf of the Investigative Demands seeking additional information relating to
Company: Wolin v. Johnson & Johnson, filed September 23, 2010. sales and marketing of RISPERDAL®and sales and marketingof
Theparties to the Wolin action have stipulated that the Wolin INVEGA®. The focus of these matters is the alleged promotion of
action shall be stayed until the In re Johnson & Johnson Shareholder RISPERDAL®and INVEGA®foroff-label uses. The government has
Derivative Litigation is completely resolved. Each of theseshare- notified the Company that there are pending qui tam actions alleging
holder derivative actions is similar in its claims and collectively they off-label promotion of RISPERDAL®. Discussions are ongoing in an
assert a variety of alleged breaches of fiduciary duties, including, effort to resolve potential criminaland civil claims arisingfrom these
among other things, that the defendants allegedly engaged in, matters. Whether a resolution can be reached and on what terms is
approved of, or failed to remedy or prevent defective medical uncertain. While a loss is probable with respectto this matter, the
devices, improper pharmaceutical rebates, improper off-label mar- Company is unable to estimate a potential loss at this time. The ulti-
keting of pharmaceutical and medical device products, violations of mate resolution ofthese matters is not expected to havea material
current good manufacturing practice regulations that resulted in adverse effecton the Company’s financial position, although the res-
product recalls, and failed to disclose theaforementioned alleged olution in any reporting period could have a material impacton the
misconduct in the Company’s filings under the Securities Exchange Company’s results of operationsand cash flows forthat period.
Act of 1934. Each complaint seeks a variety of relief, including In September 2004, Ortho Biotech Inc. (nowCOBI) received
monetary damages and corporate governance reforms. asubpoenafrom the U.S. Office of Inspector General’s Denver,
On July 27, 2010, a complaint was filed by a shareholder of the Colorado field office seeking documents directed to the sales and
Company in New Jersey Superior Court, Chancery Division, Middle- marketing of PROCRIT®(Epoetin alfa) from 1997 tothe present, as
sex County (Lipschutz v. Johnson & Johnson) seeking to compel well as to dealings with U.S. Oncology Inc., a healthcare services
inspection of Company books and records with respectto certain network for oncologists. COBI has responded to the subpoena.
product recalls and various manufacturing plants. This lawsuit was In November 2007, the Attorney General of the Common-
dismissed on October 7, 2010. wealth of Massachusetts issued a Civil Investigative Demand to
DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. (DePuy) seeking information regarding
OTHER financial relationships between a number of Massachusetts-based
In July 2003, Centocor (now COBI) received a request that it volun- orthopedic surgeons and providers, and DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc.
tarily provide documents and information to the criminal division DePuy has responded to Massachusetts’ additional requests.
ofthe U.S. Attorney’s Office, Districtof New Jersey, in connection In July 2005, Scios Inc. (Scios) received a subpoena from the
with its investigation into various Centocor marketing practices. U.S.Attorney’s Office, District of Massachusetts, seeking documents
Subsequentrequests for documents have been received from the related to the sales and marketing of NATRECOR®. Scios responded
U.S. Attorney’s Office. Both the Company and Centocor have to the subpoena. In early August 2005, Scios wasadvised that the
responded to these requests for documents and information. investigation would be handled by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the
In December 2003, Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, Inc. (now Northern District of California in San Francisco. Additional requests
OMJPI) received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office in for documents have been received and responded to and former Scios
Boston, Massachusetts seeking documents relating to the market- employees have testified before a grand jury in San Francisco. The
ing, includingalleged off-label marketing, of the drug TOPAMAX® quitam complaints were unsealed on February 19, 2009. The U.S.
(topiramate). In the fiscal second quarter of 2010, OMJPI entered government has intervened in one of the qui tam actions, and filed
into asettlement agreement resolving the federal government’s acomplaint against Sciosand the Company in June 2009. Scios and
investigation. As one part of thesettlement, Ortho-McNeil Pharma- Johnson & Johnson filed a motion to dismiss the qui tam complaint
ceutical, LLC, a subsidiary ofOMJPI, has pled guilty to a single mis- filed by the government, and that motion wasdenied.The criminal
demeanor violation of the Food, Drugand Cosmetic Act and paid investigation is continuing and discussions are underway in an effort
acriminal fine. OMJPI denies it engaged in any wrongful conduct, to settle this matter. Whether a settlement can be reached and on
beyond acknowledging the limited conduct of Ortho-McNeil what terms isuncertain.
Pharmaceutical, LLC, that is the basis ofthe misdemeanor plea.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69In September 2005, the Company received a subpoena from In May 2007, the New York State Attorney General issued a
the U.S. Attorney’s Office, Districtof Massachusetts, seeking docu- subpoena seeking information relating to the marketing and safety
ments related to sales and marketing of eight drugs to Omnicare, of PROCRIT®. TheCompany has responded to these requests.
Inc., (Omnicare) a manager of pharmaceutical benefits for long- In April 2007, the Company received two subpoenas from the
term care facilities. TheCompany’s subsidiaries involved responded Office of the Attorney General of the State of Delaware. Thesub-
to the subpoena. Several employees of the Company’s pharmaceuti- poenas seek documents and information relating to nominal pricing
cal subsidiaries were subpoenaed to testifybefore a grand jury in agreements. For purposes of the subpoenas, nominal pricing agree-
connection with this investigation. In April 2009, the Company ments are defined as agreements under which the Company agreed
wasserved with the complaints in two civil qui tam cases related to to provide a pharmaceutical product for less than ten percentof the
marketing of prescription drugs to Omnicare. On January 15, 2010, Average Manufacturer Price for theproduct. TheCompany
the government filed a complaint intervening in the cases. The responded to these requests.
complaint asserts claims under the federal False Claims Act and a In March 2008, the Company received a letter request from
related state law claim in connection with the marketing of several the Attorney General of the State of Michigan. Therequest seeks
drugs to Omnicare. Thecomplaints allege that Johnson & Johnson documents and information relating to nominal price transactions.
provided Omnicare with rebates and other alleged kickbacks, and in TheCompany responded to the request.
so doing, caused Omnicare to filefalse claims with Medicaid and In June 2008, the Company received a subpoena from the
other government programs. Subsequently, the Commonwealth of United States Attorney’s Office for theDistrict of Massachusetts
Massachusetts, Virginia, and Kentucky, and the States of California relating to the marketing of biliary stents by the Company’s Cordis
and Indiana intervened in the action. TheCompany’s motion to dis- subsidiary. Cordis is cooperating in responding to the subpoena.
miss the government’s and relators’ complaints, the government’s AFalse Claims Act complaint was filed in Dallas relating to similar
and relators’ oppositions, and the Company’s reply brief have been issues. TheU.S. Department of Justice and several states have
filed. A hearing on the Company’s motion to dismiss was held on declined to intervene at this time. A motion to dismiss the Texas
October 7, 2010. Thecourt has not ruled on the motion. quitam case is pending.
In November 2005, a lawsuit was filed under seal against the In April 2009, the Company received a HIPPA subpoena fromthe
Company, along with codefendants McKesson Corporation and U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts (Boston) seek-
Omnicare, Inc., by a former employee in the United States District ing information regarding the Company’s financial relationship with
Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, United States ex rel. several psychiatrists. The Company has responded to this request.
Scott Bartz v. Ortho McNeil Pharmaceutical, Inc.,et al. After investi- In April 2009, Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc. (OCD) received
gation, the United States declined to intervene. Thecasewas subse- a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice,
quently unsealed, and the Company was served with the operative Antitrust Division, requesting documents and information for the
complaint on January 3, 2011. Thecomplaint alleges that Defen- period beginning September 1, 2000 through the present, pertaining
dants engaged in various improper transactions that were allegedly to an investigation of alleged violations of the antitrust laws in the
designed to report false prescription drug prices to the federal gov- blood reagents industry. TheCompany complied with the subpoena.
ernment in order to reduce the Company’s Medicaid rebate obliga- In November 2010, the Antitrust Division provided notice that it has
tions. Thecomplaint further alleges that the Company improperly closed itsinvestigation. In the weeks following the public announce-
retaliated against the Plaintiff for having raised these allegations ment that OCD had received a subpoena from the Antitrust
internally. Thecomplaint alleges a variety of causes of action under Division, multiple class action complaints were filed. Thevarious
the federal False Claims Act and corresponding state and local cases were consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the Eastern
statutes. TheCompany has not yet responded to the complaint, but District of Pennsylvania.
anticipates filing a motion to dismiss. In May 2009, the New Jersey Attorney General issued a sub-
In February 2006, the Company received a subpoena from the poena to DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc., seeking information regarding
U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC) requesting docu- the financial interest of clinical investigators who performed clinical
ments relating to the participation by several Johnson & Johnson studies for DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. and DePuy Spine, Inc. DePuy
subsidiaries in the United Nations Iraq Oil for Food Program. The Orthopaedics has responded to these requests.
subsidiaries are cooperating with the SEC and U.S. Department of In May 2010, the Company received a letter from the United
Justice (DOJ). States House of Representatives’ Committee on Oversight and
In February2007, the Company voluntarilydisclosedto theDOJ Government Reform (Committee) requesting information and
and the SEC that subsidiaries outside the United States are believed to documents regarding the April 2010recall of various infants’ and
have made improper payments in connection with the sale of medical children’s liquid products by McNeil Consumer Healthcare Division
devices in two small-marketcountries, which payments may fall of McNEIL-PPC, Inc. (McNeil Consumer Healthcare). TheCompany
within the jurisdiction of the Foreign CorruptPractices Act (FCPA). In produced documents and other information in response to these
the course of continuingdialogues with theagencies, other issues requests. In May 2010, the Committee conducted a public hearing.
potentially rising to thelevel of FCPA violations in additional markets Thereafter, the Company received additional information requests
have been broughtto the attention of theagencies by the Company. from the Committee, including requests regarding the recall of
TheCompany has provided and will continueto provide additional certain Motrin products by McNeil Consumer Healthcare. The
information to theDOJ and SEC, and will cooperate with the agencies’ Company produced documents and other information in response
reviews of these matters. Lawenforcement agencies of a number of to these requests. TheCommittee held another public hearing on
other countries are alsopursuing investigations of matters voluntarily September 30, 2010, and the Company continues to cooperate
disclosed by the Company to theDOJ and SEC. Discussions are fullywith the Committee’s ongoinginformation requests.
underway in an effort to resolve thesematters, and the Iraq Oil for
Food matter referenced above, but whether agreementcan be
reached, and on whatterms, isuncertain.
70 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTIn addition, McNeil Consumer Healthcare, and certain affiliates With respectto all theabove matters, the Company and its
includingJohnson &Johnson (“the Companies”), received grand subsidiaries are vigorously contesting the allegations asserted
jury subpoenas from the United States Attorney’s Office for the against them and otherwise pursuing defenses to maximize the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania requesting documents broadly prospectof success. TheCompany and its subsidiaries involved in
relating to recent recalls of various products of McNeil Consumer these matters continually evaluate their strategies in managing
Healthcare, and the FDA inspections of the Fort Washington, these matters and, where appropriate, pursue settlements and other
Pennsylvania and Lancaster, Pennsylvania manufacturing facilities. resolutions where those are in the best interest of the Company.
In addition, the government has served McNEIL-PPC Inc. with a Civil TheCompany is also involved in a number of patent, trademark
Investigative Demand seeking records relevantto its investigation and other lawsuits incidental to its business.
todetermine if there was a violation of the False Claims Act.The The ultimate legal andfinancial liability of the Company in
Companies are cooperating with the United States Attorney’s Office respect to all claims, lawsuits and proceedings referred to above can-
in responding to these subpoenas. not be reasonably estimated. However, in the Company’s opinion,
TheCompanies have also received Civil Investigative Demands based on its examination of these matters, its experience to date and
(CIDs) from multiple State Attorneys General Offices broadly relat- discussions with counsel, the ultimate outcome of legal proceedings,
ing to the McNeil recall issues. TheCompanies continue to produce net of liabilities accrued in the Company’s balance sheet, is not
documents in response to these CIDs and otherwise cooperate with expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s finan-
these inquiries. On January 12, 2011, the Oregon Attorney General cial position, although the resolutionin any reportingperiod of one
filed a civil complaint against Johnson & Johnson, McNEIL-PPC, Inc, ormore of these matters could have a material impact on the
and McNeil Healthcare LLC in state court alleging civil violations of Company’s results of operations and cash flows for that period.
the Oregon unlawful trade practices act relating to an earlier recall
of a McNeil OTC product. Thedefendants intend to seek dismissal
22.Restructuring
of this civil complaint.
Furthermore, a lawsuit was filed in September 2010by a share- In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company announced global
holder in the United States District Court for theDistrict of New restructuring initiatives designed to strengthen the Company’s posi-
Jersey: Monk v. Johnson & Johnson. Thecomplaint seeks class tion as one of the world’s leading global health care companies. This
certification based upon the anti-fraud provisions of the federal program will allow the Company to invest in new growth platforms;
securities laws related to the McNeil manufacturing facilities. More ensure the successful launch of its many new products andcontin-
specifically, this complaint alleges that the Companies and certain ued growth of its core businesses; and provide flexibility to adjust to
individuals, including officers and employees, failed to disclose that the changed and evolving global environment.
a number of manufacturing facilities were failing to maintain current Duringthefiscal fourth quarter of 2009, theCompany recorded
good manufacturing practices (cGMPs) and, that as a result, the $1.2 billion in related pre-tax charges, of which approximately
price of the Company’s stock has declined significantly. $830million of the pre-tax restructuring charges are expected to
Multiple complaints seeking class action certification related to require cash payments. The $1.2 billion of restructuring charges con-
theMcNeil recalls have been filed in the United States DistrictCourt sists of severance costs of $748 million, asset write-offs of $362 mil-
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, the Northern District of Illi- lion and $76 million related to leasehold and contract obligations.
nois, the Central District of California, and the Southern District of The $362 million of asset write-offs relate to inventory of $113 million
Ohio. These consumer complaints allege generallythat purchasers of (recorded in cost of products sold), property, plantand equipment of
various McNeil medicines are owed monetary damages and penal- $107 million, intangible assets of $81 million and other assets of
ties because they paid premium prices for defective medications $61million. Additionally, as part of this program the Company plans
rather than less expensive alternative medications. Each complaint to eliminate approximately 7,500 positions, of which approximately
seeks certification of a nation-wide class of purchasers of these med- 5,000 have been eliminated since the restructuring was announced.
icines. On October 8, 2010, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litiga- Thefollowing table summarizes the severance charges and the
tion consolidated these consumer complaints: Haviland v. McNeil associated spending for the fiscal year ended 2010:
(E.D. Pa.); Smith v. McNeil(N.D. Ill.); Burrell v. McNeil(N.D. Ill.);
(Dollars in Millions) Severance
DeGroot v. McNeil(N.D. Ill.); Michaud v. McNeil,(N.D. Ill.); Nguyen
2009 restructuring charge $748
v. McNeil(N.D. Ill.); Roberson v. McNeil(N.D. Ill.); Rivera v. Johnson
Cash outlays (62)
& Johnson (C.D.Cal.), and Coleman v. McNeil (S.D. Ohio) for pretrial
Reserve balance, January 3, 2010 686
proceedings in the United States DistrictCourt for the Eastern Dis-
Cash outlays (341)
trict of Pennsylvania. Plaintiffs filed a “Consolidated Amended Civil
Consumer Class Action Complaint” (CAC) naming additional parties Reserve balance, January 2, 2011* $345
andclaims on January 12, 2011. Defendants currently intend to file a *Cash outlays for severance are expected to be substantiallypaid outoverthe next 12 months
motion to dismiss the CAC, which motion will be filed on March 2, inaccordance with the Company’s plans and local laws.
2011, and is scheduled to be heard on May10, 2011.
For additional information on therestructuring as it relates to the
In recent years the Company has received numerous requests
segments, see Note 18.
froma variety of United States Congressional Committees to
produce information relevant to ongoingcongressional inquiries.
Itis the Company’s policy to cooperate with these inquiries by
producingthe requested information.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 71Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Johnson & Johnson: control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included per-
formingsuch other procedures as we considered necessary in the
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
the related consolidated statements of earnings, statements of basis for our opinions.
equity, and statements of cash flows present fairly, in all material As discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial State-
respects, the financial position of Johnson & Johnson and its sub- ments, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for
sidiaries (“the Company”) at January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010, business combinations in 2009.
and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
the three years in the period ended January 2, 2011 in conformity process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
with accountingprinciples generally accepted in the United States reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting accepted accountingprinciples.A company’s internal control over
as of January 2, 2011, based on criteria established inInternal financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
Control—Integrated Frameworkissued by the Committee of Spon- (i)pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
soring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
Company’s management is responsible for these financial state- assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that trans-
ments, for maintainingeffective internal control over financial actions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal con- statements in accordance with generally accepted accountingprin-
trol over financial reporting, included in the accompanying “Man- ciples, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being
agement’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.” Our made only in accordance with authorizations of management and
responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance
and on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisi-
based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accor- tion, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that couldhave a
dance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Over- material effect on the financial statements.
sight Board (United States). Thosestandards require that we plan Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over finan-
and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about cial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, pro-
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement jections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was subject to the risk that controls may becomeinadequate because of
maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial state- changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
ments included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significantestimates made by man-
agement, and evaluating the overall financial statement presenta-
tion. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial report-
ing, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing New York, New York
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal February24, 2011
72 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2010 ANNUAL REPORTManagement’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, manage- established by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
ment is required to assess the effectiveness of the Company’s inter- Treadway Commission (COSO) in “Internal Control-Integrated
nal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year Framework.” Thesecriteria are in the areas of control environment,
and report, based on that assessment,whether the Company’s risk assessment, control activities, information and communication,
internal control over financial reporting is effective. and monitoring. TheCompany’s assessment included extensive
Management of the Company is responsible for establishing documenting, evaluating and testing the design and operating
andmaintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. effectiveness of its internal controls over financial reporting.
The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is designed Based on the Company’s processes and assessment, as
to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the Company’s described above, management has concluded that, as of January2,
financial reportingandthepreparation of external financial state- 2011, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
ments in accordance with generallyaccepted accounting principles. waseffective.
Internal controls over financial reporting, no matter how well Theeffectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, internal control over financial reporting as of January 2, 2011 has been audited by
financial reporting determined to beeffective can provide only rea- PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
sonable assurance with respectto financial statement preparation accountingfirm,as stated in their report, which appears herein.
and may not prevent or detect all misstatements. Moreover, projec-
tions of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to the risk that controls may becomeinadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
TheCompany’s management has assessed the effectiveness of William C. Weldon Dominic J. Caruso
the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of January Chairman, Board of Directors, Vice President, Finance,
2, 2011. In making thisassessment, the Company used the criteria and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 73Summary of Operations and Statistical Data
2000-2010
(Dollars in Millions Except PerShare Figures) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000
Sales to customer — U.S. $29,450 30,889 32,309 32,444 29,775 28,377 27,770 25,274 22,455 19,825 17,316
Sales to customer — International 32,137 31,008 31,438 28,651 23,549 22,137 19,578 16,588 13,843 12,492 11,856
Total sales 61,587 61,897 63,747 61,095 53,324 50,514 47,348 41,862 36,298 32,317 29,172
Cost of products sold 18,792 18,447 18,511 17,751 15,057 14,010 13,474 12,231 10,498 9,622 8,987
Selling, marketing and administrative expenses 19,424 19,801 21,490 20,451 17,433 17,211 16,174 14,463 12,520 11,510 10,675
Research and development expense 6,844 6,986 7,577 7,680 7,125 6,462 5,344 4,834 4,094 3,704 3,186
Purchased in-process research and development — — 181 807 559 362 18 918 189 105 66
Interest income (107) (90) (361) (452) (829) (487) (195) (177) (256) (456) (429)
Interest expense, net of portion capitalized 455 451 435 296 63 54 187 207 160 153 204
Other (income) expense, net (768) (526) (1,015) 534 (671) (214) 15 (385) 294 185 (94)
Restructuring — 1,073 — 745 — — — — — — —
44,640 46,142 46,818 47,812 38,737 37,398 35,017 32,091 27,499 24,823 22,595
Earnings before provisionfor taxes on income 16,947 15,755 16,929 13,283 14,587 13,116 12,331 9,771 8,799 7,494 6,577
Provisionfor taxes on income 3,613 3,489 3,980 2,707 3,534 3,056 4,151 2,923 2,522 2,089 1,813
Net earnings 13,334 12,266 12,949 10,576 11,053 10,060 8,180 6,848 6,277 5,405 4,764
Percent of sales to customers 21.7 19.8 20.3 17.3 20.7 19.9 17.3 16.4 17.3 16.7 16.3
Diluted net earnings per share of common stock $ 4.78 4.40 4.57 3.63 3.73 3.35 2.74 2.29 2.06 1.75 1.55
Percent return on average shareholders’equity 24.9 26.4 30.2 25.6 28.3 28.2 27.3 27.1 26.4 24.0 25.3
Percent increase(decrease) overpreviousyear:
Sales to customers (0.5) (2.9) 4.3 14.6 5.6 6.7 13.1 15.3 12.3 10.8 6.6
Diluted net earnings per share 8.6 (3.7) 25.9 (2.7) 11.3 22.3 19.7 11.2 17.7 12.9 15.7
Supplementary expense data:
Cost of materials and services $27,586 27,651 29,346 27,967 22,912 22,328 21,053 18,568 16,540 15,333 14,113
Total employment costs 13,934 14,587 14,523 14,571 13,444 12,364 11,581 10,542 8,942 8,153 7,376
Depreciation and amortization 2,939 2,774 2,832 2,777 2,177 2,093 2,124 1,869 1,662 1,605 1,592
Maintenance and repairs(1) 657 567 583 483 506 510 462 395 360 372 327
Total tax expense(2) 5,070 5,052 5,558 4,177 4,857 4,285 5,215 3,890 3,325 2,854 2,517
Supplementary balance sheet data:
Property, plant and equipment, net 14,553 14,759 14,365 14,185 13,044 10,830 10,436 9,846 8,710 7,719 7,409
Additions to property, plant and equipment 2,384 2,365 3,066 2,942 2,666 2,632 2,175 2,262 2,099 1,731 1,689
Total assets 102,908 94,682 84,912 80,954 70,556 58,864 54,039 48,858 40,984 38,771 34,435
Long-term debt 9,156 8,223 8,120 7,074 2,014 2,017 2,565 2,955 2,022 2,217 3,163
Operating cash flow 16,385 16,571 14,972 15,022 14,248 11,799 11,089 10,571 8,135 8,781 6,889
Common stock information
Dividends paid per share $ 2.110 1.930 1.795 1.620 1.455 1.275 1.095 0.925 0.795 0.700 0.620
Shareholders’equity per share $ 20.66 18.37 15.35 15.25 13.59 13.01 10.95 9.25 7.79 8.05 6.82
Market price per share (year-end close) $ 61.85 64.41 58.56 67.38 66.02 60.10 63.42 50.62 53.11 59.86 52.53
Average shares outstanding (millions)—basic 2,751.4 2,759.5 2,802.5 2,882.9 2,936.4 2,973.9 2,968.4 2,968.1 2,998.3 3,033.8 2,993.5
—diluted 2,788.8 2,789.1 2,835.6 2,910.7 2,961.0 3,002.8 2,992.7 2,995.1 3,049.1 3,089.3 3,075.2
Employees (thousands) 114.0 115.5 118.7 119.2 122.2 115.6 109.9 110.6 108.3 101.8 100.9
(1)Also included in cost of materials and services category.
(2)Includes taxes on income, payroll, property and otherbusiness taxes.
74 SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS AND STATISTICAL DATAShareholder Return Performance Graphs
Set rth el are line raph mparin the umulati e t tal hareh lder return n theC mpan C mm n St r peri d e ear
and ten ear endin e em er a ain t the umulati et talreturn theStandard & P r St Index theStandard & P r
Pharma euti al Indexand theStandard & P r HealthCare EquipmentIndex he raph and ta le a umethat a in e ted
n e em er and e em er inea h theC mpan C mm n St theStandard & P r St Index the
Standard & P r Pharma euti al Indexand theStandard & P r HealthCare EquipmentIndex and thatall di idend ererein e ted
5-Year Cumulative $125
Total ShareholderReturn
(2005–2010)
$115
hn n & hn n
S&P 500 Index
$105
S&P Pharmaceutical
Index
S&P Health Care $ 5
EquipmentIndex
5-Year C R
& 3.5% $ 5
S&P 500 2.3%
S&P Pharm 3.5%
S&P H C Equip (0.2%) $75
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
$10000 112 11 50 107 5 11 57 11 7
S&P 500 Index $10000 1157 1221 7 7 111
S&P PharmaceuticalIndex $10000 115 5 12125 1 117 11 55
S&P HealthCare EquipmentIndex $10000 10 12 10 7 7 20 10200 2
10-Year Cumulative $150
Total ShareholderReturn
(2000–2010)
hn n & hn n
$125
S&P 500 Index
S&P Pharmaceutical
Index $100
S&P Health Care
EquipmentIndex
10-Year C R $75
& 4.0%
S&P 500 1.4%
S&P Pharm (2.4%)
S&P H C Equip 2.0% $50
2000 2001 2002 200 200 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
$10000 11 01 1050 102 1 12 12 1 1 1 1 70 1 7
S&P Index $10000 11 7 10275 11 7 12551 7 07 10000 11507
S&P Pharma euti al Index $10000 5 7 1 770 0 2 5 5 7 22 7
S&PHealthCareEquipmentIndex $10000 2 10 50 12 2 12 12 7 1 50 77 125 122 5
SHAREHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE GRAPHS 75Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Thetables below are provided to reconcilecertain financial disclosures in the Letter to Shareholders, page 1.
’10 vs. ’09 ’09vs. ’08
(Dollars in Millions Except PerShare Data) 2010 2009 2008 % Change % Change
Earnings before provision for taxes on income—as reported $16,947 15,755 16,929 7.6% (6.9)
Purchased in-process research & development (IPR&D) — — 181
Gain on litigation settlements, net (966) (386) (379)
Restructuring expense — 1,186 —
Product liability expense 569 — —
DePuyASR™Hip recall program 280 — —
Earnings before provision for taxes on income—as adjusted $16,830 16,555 16,731 1.7% (1.1)
Net Earnings—as reported $13,334 12,266 12,949 8.7% (5.3)
Purchased in-process research & development (IPR&D) — — 181
Gain on litigation settlements, net (698) (212) (229)
Restructuring expense — 852 —
Product liability expense 404 — —
DePuyASR™Hip recall program 239 — —
Net Earnings—as adjusted $13,279 12,906 12,901 2.9% 0.0
Diluted Net Earnings per share—as reported $ 4.78 4.40 4.57 8.6% (3.7)
Purchased in-process research & development (IPR&D) — — 0.06
Gain on litigation settlements, net (0.25) (0.08) (0.08)
Restructuring expense — 0.31 —
Product liability expense 0.14 — —
DePuyASR™Hip recall program 0.09 — —
Diluted Net Earnings per share—as adjusted $ 4.76 4.63 4.55 2.8% 1.8
’10 vs. ’09 ’09vs. ’08
(Dollars in Millions) 2010 2009 2008 % Change % Change
Net cash flows from operating activities $16,385 16,571 14,972
Additions to property, plant and equipment $(2,384) (2,365) (3,066)
Free Cash Flow $14,001 14,206 11,906 (1.4)% 19.3
TheCompany believes investors gain additional perspective of underlying business trends and results by providing free cash flow, a measure
of earnings before tax, net earnings and diluted net earnings per share that excludes IPR&D charges and other special items in order to
evaluate ongoing business operations. Thesenon-GAAP financial measures should not be considered replacements for, and should be read
together with, the most comparable GAAP financial measures.
76 RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURESPRINCIPAL OFFICE INVESTOR RELATIONS CONTACT
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza Louise Mehrotra
New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933 Vice President, Investor Relations
2
(732) 524-0400
(800) 950-5089
(732) 524-6492 1
ANNUAL MEETING
The Annual Meeting of Shareholders will take 3
TRANSFER AGENT AND REGISTRAR
4
place April 28, 2011, at the Hyatt Regency New
Questions regarding stock holdings,
Brunswick, 2 Albany Street, New Brunswick,
certificate replacement/transfer, dividends and
New Jersey. The meeting will convene at 10 a.m. address changes should be directed to: 6
All shareholders are cordially invited to attend. Computershare Trust Company, N.A. 5
A formal Notice of Meeting, Proxy Statement 250 Royall Street 7 8
and Proxy have been sent to shareholders.
Canton, MA 02021 9
10 11 12
(800) 328-9033 or
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
(781) 575-2718 (outside the U.S.)
Copies of the Company’s 2010 Annual Report 13 14 16
www.computershare.com
on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
15 17
10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K to the
DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN
Securities and Exchange Commission, Proxy The Plan allows for full or partial 125 YEARS OF CARING
(See story on page 22)
Statement, and this Annual Report are available dividend reinvestment, and additional monthly
online at www.investor.jnj.com/sec-filings.cfm, cash investments up to $50,000 per year, in
1, 2, 3 Company founders James Wood
or to shareholders without charge upon written Johnson & Johnson common stock without Johnson (left), Edward Mead Johnson (top)
request to the Secretary at the Company’s brokerage commissions or service charges and Robert Wood Johnson (bottom)
principal address or by calling (800) 950-5089. on stock purchases. If you are interested in 4 Advertisement, circa 1960
participating in the Plan and need an authoriza- 5 SigMA® Rotating Platform Knee,
In addition, on the Company’s Corporate tion form and/or more information, please call DePuy Orthopaedics, inc.
Governance website at www.investor.jnj.com/ Computershare Trust Company, N.A. 6 Our Credo, 1948
governance.cfm, shareholders can view at (800) 328-9033 or (781) 575-2718 7 J OHNSON’S® Baby Shampoo,
the Company’s Principles of Corporate (outside the U.S.). Johnson & Johnson Consumer
Governance, Charters of the Audit Committee,
Products Company
Compensation & Benefits Committee and HEARING IMPAIRED
8 C YPHER® Sirolimus-eluting Coronary Stent,
Nominating & Corporate Governance Shareholders who have inquiries regarding
Cordis Corporation
Committee, Policy on Business Conduct for stock-related matters can communicate directly
9 First Aid Wood’s Emergency Case, 1939
Employees and Code of Business Conduct & with Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
10 RED CROSS® Catgut No. 4 , 1907
Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors via a telecommunications device (TDD).
and Executive Officers. Copies of these The telephone number for this service is 11 B AND-AiD® Brand DRYBAK Adhesive
Bandages, circa 1930
documents are available to shareholders (800) 952-9245 or (781) 575-2692 (outside
without charge upon written request to the the U.S.). 12 Rh o (D) immune globulin (Human)
RhogAM®, 1969, Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics
Secretary at the Company’s principal address.
Registered shareholders who wish to receive 13 JOHNSON’S® Baby Powder, circa 1920
The Company is required to file as an Exhibit electronic notice of online access to future 14 E xtra Strength TYLENOL® Rapid Release
to its Form 10-K for each fiscal year certifica- annual reports and proxy materials instead of gels, McNeil-PPC, inc.
tions under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley paper copies may register online: 15 1 -DAY ACUVUE® TRUEYE™ Contact Lenses,
Act signed by the Chief Executive Officer and www.computershare-na.com/green. Johnson & Johnson Vision Care, inc.
the Chief Financial Officer. In addition, the 16 O RTHO-gYNOL® (Nonoxynol-9),
Company is required to submit a certification Beneficial Johnson & Johnson shareholders Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation
signed by the Chief Executive Officer to the (you own shares through a broker or bank) can 17 P ROCRiT® (Epoetin Alfa); Centocor Ortho
New York Stock Exchange within 30 days fol- register for online delivery of materials by going Biotech Products, LP
lowing the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. to http://enroll.icsdelivery.com/jnj.
Copies of the certifications filed for previous The paper used in this publication is made from
years are posted on the Company’s Corporate J OHNSON & JOHNSON ON THE WEB 30% and 100% post-consumer recycled fiber, is
Forest Stewardship Council™ certified for chain of custody
Governance website, and future certifications Company website: www.jnj.com and was manufactured with green energy credits for purchase
will be posted promptly upon filing. of electricity generated from renewable-energy sources
Online annual report: such as wind and low-impact hydro resources.
www.investor.jnj.com/2010annualreport
COMMON STOCK
Listed on New York Stock Exchange Company blog: www.jnjbtw.com
Stock Symbol JNJ
Johnson & Johnson history blog:
SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS CONTACT www.kilmerhouse.com
Douglas K. Chia
Facebook: Follow the Johnson & Johnson
Corporate Secretary The Johnson & Johnson annual report contains many
Network
of the valuable trademarks owned and used by the
(732) 524-2455
Twitter: @JNJComm; @JNJStories; Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies in the
United States and internationally to distinguish
@JNJVideo; @JNJHistory
products and services of outstanding quality.
YouTube: www.youtube.com/JNJhealth
©Johnson & Johnson 2011
CORPORATE AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION