2020 Health for
Humanity Report
Progress in SustainabilityContents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Contents
Message from Our Chairman and CEO 3
2020 Year in Brief 4
Our Recognitions 5
Our Approach 6
Health for Humanity Strategy & Goals 9
Sustainability Governance 13
Sustainability Priorities 14
United in Defeating COVID-19 15
Caring for Patients 17
Supporting the Front Lines of Care 24
Protecting Employees 25
Supply Chain Resilience 28
Better Health for All 30
Innovation 31
Global Public Health Strategy 35
Access & Affordability 45
Strengthening Health Systems 48
Responsible Business Practices 52
Ethics & Values 53
Our People 60
Product Quality & Safety 74
Environmental Health 79
Responsible Supply Base 90 ABOVE: During the COVID-19 pandemic,
Report overview
community healthcare workers in Peru
Reporting Hub 98 This Report details the progress of the Johnson & Johnson Family traveled door-to-door to reach children with
ESG Summary 98 of Companies in sustainability. It is also our primary source of VERMOX Chewable tablets for treatment of
Performance Data 98 annual disclosure on environmental, social and governance intestinal worms. The medicine is donated
GRI Content Index 98 (ESG) performance and should be reviewed in conjunction by Johnson & Johnson and implemented
GRI Culture of Health for Business Framework 98 with disclosures on the ESG Policies & Positions page. Data by INMED Partnerships for Children.
SASB Index 98 in this Report cover the period between January 1, 2020, and Photo by INMED Partnerships for Children.
TCFD 98 December 31, 2020, unless otherwise noted. Reporting on other
FRONT COVER: Jacquelyn W., Senior
UNGC Communication on Progress 98 matters specific to financial performance of the Company and its
Warehouse Operator, celebrating the
CDP Reports 98 subsidiaries can be found in our 2020 Annual Report. For more
first outbound shipment of the Johnson &
About this Report 99 information and the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking
Johnson COVID-19 vaccine.
Independent Assurance Statements 101 Statements, please see About this Report.
Glossary 115
To read this report online, visit healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com.
References 116
2020 Health for Humanity ReportContents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Message from Our Chairman and CEO
GRI 102-14
To Our Global Community: chains, and launching a first-of-its-kind medical device ecosystem to take on the challenges of tomorrow.
for the management of persistent atrial fibrillation. And, as always, we will hold ourselves to a high level
We all know from firsthand experience that 2020
Delivering on our responsibilities to a healthy planet, of transparency and accountability through reports
was a year of profound upheaval and uncertainty.
we made progress on reducing our carbon footprint, such as this one and our annual Janssen U.S.
It was also, however, a clarifying moment for us at
including achieving more than 50% use of renewable Transparency Report.
Johnson & Johnson.
electricity globally.
As we grappled with the wide-ranging impacts of
Throughout 2020, bearing witness to the way the
the COVID-19 pandemic and the ongoing economic
pandemic revealed weaknesses in our public health
volatility that threw into stark relief the issues of racial
systems and pushed businesses to do more to create
injustice and health inequities, one thing was certain:
healthier, more equitable communities was sometimes a
when it comes to global public health, the stakes could
humbling experience—but it was also an inspiration.
not be higher. While solving the most pressing global
health challenges is never easy, the once-in-a-generation I’m pleased to be able to say that these challenges of
confluence of these crises underscored the complexity 2020 only enhanced our commitment to—and continued
that organizations like ours must navigate if we truly focus on—creating long-term value for all stakeholders
want to make the maximum positive impact on human by integrating social considerations, environmental Alex Gorsky connecting with employees during a virtual visit
health. sustainability and good governance into every aspect to our Shanghai and Beijing offices.
of our business. From launching the Our Race to
At Johnson & Johnson, taking on even the most
Health Equity platform to address the root causes of I know we will continue to do our part through
daunting healthcare challenges has been at the core
healthcare inequity in the United States, to deepening whatever unknowable new challenges and upheavals
of who we are for 135 years. And while living up to
our commitments to address complex issues like lie ahead, because we will always be able to draw
our commitments embodied in Our Credo has always
smoking cessation, to environmental health innovations upon our ultimate strength: the remarkable people
required constant evolution and innovation, the last year
to make our packaging easier to recycle or reuse through of Johnson & Johnson. In an extraordinary year, our
demanded that we embrace radically new ways of doing
the Healthy Lives initiative from Johnson & Johnson 136,000-plus global employees embraced radically
business and even greater heights of purpose-driven
Consumer Health, we have kept our sights firmly set on new ways of working with greater agility than ever
collaboration through public–private partnerships.
catalyzing lasting change. before. Each individual’s ingenuity and resilience are
As we detail in this Report, the significant challenges of what allowed us to go above and beyond for all our
To help lead the world into a brighter post-COVID-19
2020 did not deter us from accomplishing many of our stakeholders. I could not be prouder of what Johnson &
future where healthier families flourish in healthier
key goals. Johnson employees showed the world is possible—
societies on a healthier planet, we know we must
or more optimistic about what their passion and
While much of the world’s attention was on our capitalize on the incredible momentum we’ve unleashed
perseverance will help us achieve in the future.
leadership in the fight against the COVID-19 at Johnson & Johnson this past year.
pandemic—culminating in the deployment of our
Building on our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals—the
Janssen COVID-19 vaccine this year—we also achieved
successes and shortcomings of which are detailed in this
our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals of fighting HIV and
Report—we are launching even more ambitious goals
tuberculosis, as well as accelerating broader access to
for 2025 that will enable us to continue living into Our
our Ebola vaccine for those most in need. We brought
Purpose as we make further contributions to 11 of the 17
this same agility to our work on behalf of our patients
United Nations 2030 Sustainable Development Goals.
and customers in areas as diverse as advancing the
Given how essential collaboration was to our shared Alex Gorsky
science around the treatment of multiple myeloma,
progress in 2020, we’re actively expanding on many of Chairman, Board of Directors
deploying technological innovations and application of
our historic partnerships across the entire healthcare and Chief Executive Officer
data science to safeguard critically important supply
2020 Health for Humanity Report 3Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
2020 Year in Brief
OUR NEW COMMITMENTS AND GOALS
$100 million $800 million 21
ambitious Health for Humanity 2025 Goals
committed over the next five years in the U.S. to help committed through 2030 to advance our Healthy
addressing pandemics and epidemics, global health
eliminate health inequities for people of color Lives Mission, to make our Consumer Health
equity, our people, planet and partners
products more sustainable
OUR IMPACT
People We Serve
Combating COVID-19 Advancing Breakthrough Science for HIV Preventing Future Ebola
Within a year, began manufacturing our single-shot Received European Commission Marketing Outbreaks
COVID-19 vaccine, now authorized for emergency Authorization for REKAMBYS (rilpivirine injection) to Received European Commission
use by the U.S. FDA, granted a Conditional Marketing be used with ViiV Healthcare’s Vocabria (cabotegravir Marketing Authorization for
Authorization by the European Commission, and injection) as the first-ever complete, long-acting Photo by Rwanda Ebola vaccine regime11 for the
issued an Emergency Use Listing by the World Health injectable HIV treatment regimen Ministry of Health. prevention of Ebola Virus Disease
Organization (WHO)
Treating Atrial Fibrillation Partnering to Stop Smoking
Expanding Access to MDR-TB Treatment Received CE mark approval for QDOT MICRO As part of the Access Initiative for Quitting Tobacco,
Collaborated with the Stop TB Partnership’s Global Catheter, next-generation high-power, short-duration launched by the WHO to reduce smoking rates around
Drug Facility to develop and implement a novel access ablation catheter for the treatment of atrial fibrillation the world, Johnson & Johnson Consumer Health
framework for SIRTURO (bedaquiline) for 135+ low- donated nicotine replacement therapy patches
and middle-income countries
Employees Communities & Planet Shareholders
Over 100 46% $2.6 billion 54% of our $12.2 billion
medically trained employees of management contributed in products and electricity invested in R&D, an increase
benefited from paid leave to serve roles held by cash for charitable purposes* of 7% over 2019
is produced from
patients in their communities women globally
renewable energy sources
during the COVID-19 pandemic $50 million 59
53% additional funds committed to consecutive years of
Living Wage
support frontline health workers dividends increases**
of new hires in
assessment integrated into battling COVID-19*
2020 were women
our standard human resources $7.3 billion
2010 2020
processes 10.7% of total
spent on acquisitions, creating value
supplier spend 45% reduction through innovation and partnerships
Our Credo Survey results showed an all-time high:
attributable to diverse suppliers in CO emissions globally since 2010
93% 89% 2
participation rate favorability
* Funded entirely by the Johnson & Johnson Foundation, a registered charity and a company limited by guarantee. The Foundation is a separate legal entity from the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies.
** Includes dividend declared in2 A0p2ri0l 2 H02e1.alth for Humanity Report 4Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Our Recognitions
Constituent of the FTSE4Good
Ranked #2 for “social capital” in
Index Series, designed to
new The Wall Street Journal ranking
measure the performance
of world's most sustainably managed Ranked #3 on advancing access to
of companies demonstrating
companies. medicines and technologies for people
strong ESG practices.
in low- and middle-income countries in
the 2021 Access to Medicine Index.
Named to the 2020 CPA-Zicklin Index
of Corporate Political Disclosure and Named to the CDP supplier
Accountability for the third consecutive engagement leader board for
year with trendsetter status, indicating the fourth consecutive year.
model corporate governance best practices. A List ratings from CDP in climate action for the
third consecutive year and water security for the
second consecutive year.
Named to Working Mother’s
Received the EcoVadis 2021 annual 100 Best Companies
Sustainable Procurement list for the 35th consecutive
Leadership Awards in the year, and also recognized
Best Value Chain Engagement on the Best Companies
category. for Dads list for the third
Ranked #1 on 12th annual Gartner
consecutive year.
Healthcare Supply Chain Top 25 ranking.
Johnson & Johnson
Technology selected as
Named to Forbes 2020
a 2021 CIO 100 Award
list as a Best Employer
winner for wide-ranging DiversityInc 2020 and 2019 Hall
for Diversity for the 2nd
contributions to bringing of Fame Company for Diversity.
consecutive year.
forward Johnson &
Johnson’s COVID-19
vaccine candidate.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 5Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Our Approach
At Johnson & Johnson, we focus on the total health journey
GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7, 102-16
Our Purpose
We blend heart, science and ingenuity to profoundly change the
trajectory of health for humanity.
Pharmaceutical
Our Values
We are driven by Our Credo, a set of values and principles that, since
1943, has challenged and inspired us to put the needs and well-being
of the people we serve first.
Our Business
We operate 90 manufacturing facilities, which are located in
all major geographic regions of the world. Research facilities
are located in the United States, Belgium, Brazil, China, France,
Medical Consumer
Germany, India, Israel, the Netherlands, Poland, Singapore, Sweden,
Devices Health
Switzerland and the United Kingdom, with additional R&D support in
over 30 other countries.
Our global headquarters are in New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA.
Johnson & Johnson has been listed on the New York Stock Exchange
since 1944 under the symbol JNJ. For changes in our business during
the reporting period, please visit page 83 of our 2020 Annual Report.
In this section, we share our progress in 2020 in the following areas: Pharmaceutical Medical Devices Consumer Health
Health for Humanity Strategy & Goals Cardiovascular & Interventional Solutions Baby Care
Metabolism Orthopaedics Oral Care
Sustainability Governance Immunology Surgery (General & OTC
Sustainability Priorities Infectious Diseases & Advanced) Skin Health/Beauty
Vaccines Vision Women’s Health
Neuroscience Wound Care
Oncology
Pulmonary Hypertension
2020 Health for Humanity Report 6Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Our Brands
Every day, we touch more than a billion lives with our products. Following are select
brands that represent the diversity of the Johnson & Johnson product portfolio in our
three business segments, spanning the broad continuum of healthcare.
Pharmaceutical Medical Devices Consumer Health
2020 Health for Humanity Report 7Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
2020 Financial Results Our Total Tax Contribution1 Total Taxes Collected: Additionally, in 2020 Johnson &
Johnson collected $5.3 billion related to the commerce
Employees 136,400‡ Our Tax Responsibility: First published in 1943,
the Company generates. These collections were in the
Our Credo stipulates that paying taxes is our
form of payroll and social insurance taxes for more than
R&D investment $12.2 billion responsibility to the communities in which we live
136,000 employees across the world, sales and use
and work. Johnson & Johnson is committed to paying
taxes and value-added taxes. These taxes are collected
Total sales $82.6 billion our fair share of taxes. Our tax footprint evolves
on behalf of governments, from employees, customers,
over time and reflects our healthcare activities and
and other business partners. Taxes Collected are an
Net earnings $14.7 billion investments, including in research and development and
important part of the measure of the contribution made
manufacturing. What has not changed or wavered is our
by Johnson & Johnson through job creation and business
Market price per share, $153.09 commitment to good corporate citizenship, which we
activities in the many countries in which we do business.
year-end close demonstrate through sustainable values and behaviors
relating to tax governance, compliance, planning,
Number of consecutive 59
risk management, relationships with governmental 2020 Tax Contribution
years of dividend
authorities and transparency; these are more fully
increases*
described in our Johnson & Johnson Tax Policy.
Taxes Taxes
‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants. In 2020, Johnson & Johnson contributed approximately Borne Collected
* Includes dividend declared in April 2021. $12 billion in taxes and fees to governments and
Corporate Income $4.6
economies around the world. This Total Tax Contribution
is made up of two components: Total Taxes Borne by the (billions)
Sales by Business Segment Company and Total Taxes Collected. Taxes Borne are a Payroll and Social $1.3 $4.3
direct cost to the Company, whereas Taxes Collected
Insurance (billions)
Pharmaceutical $45.6 billion are collected from customers and employees on behalf
of governments and ultimately remitted to them. Sales/Use and Other $0.8 $1.0
Medical Devices $23.0 billion (billions)
Our intent is to provide a comprehensive view of total
taxes paid around the world. Corporate Income Tax Total (billions) $6.7 $5.3
Consumer Health $14.1 billion
represents payments in all markets in which we operate
and is the amount reported as Income Taxes Paid in the Total Tax Contribution
$12.0
2020 Annual Report. Other taxes shown aggregate the (billions)
Company’s data from 18 major markets representing the
vast majority of our revenues. We aspire to include all
markets in future years.
Total Taxes Borne: In 2020, Johnson & Johnson bore
$6.7 billion in taxes around the world. The taxes include
corporate income taxes, the Company’s share of payroll
and social insurance taxes, and the Company’s share
of sales and other taxes. Sales taxes include sales, use,
and non-recoverable value-added tax. Other taxes
are primarily composed of customs and other duties
such as local taxes and special fees related to the
pharmaceutical industry.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 8Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Health for Humanity Strategy & Goals
As the world’s largest and most broadly based
healthcare company, Johnson & Johnson has a unique
Our Foundation
ability to apply its expertise and partnering power to
solve some of the most difficult global health challenges.
We focus our sustainability efforts where we believe our
Our Credo
Company can achieve the greatest impact. These efforts
are grounded in Our Credo values, informed by our
Company’s purpose to change the trajectory of health
for humanity and based on our sustainability priorities Our Purpose
identified through our Priority Topics Assessment.
In those areas where we believe we can achieve the
greatest impact we set goals and annually report our
progress with independent assurance validation.
Our Enterprise Principles
At Johnson & Johnson, our Health for Humanity
sustainability approach means generating social,
Be Broadly Based Use Our Reach Lead with Invest for
environmental and economic value for all of Our Credo in Healthcare and Size for Good Agility and Urgency Enduring Impact
stakeholders: patients, consumers, healthcare providers
and all others we serve, employees, the communities
in which we live and work, business partners, investors Our Global Growth Drivers
and society as a whole.
Our enterprise strategic framework provides clear Create Life-Enhancing Deliver Excellence Generate Value Empower and Inspire
Innovation in Execution through Partnerships Our Employees
guidance for both short-term and long-term decision-
making. It explains the philosophy behind how
we operate and our response to global trends and
societal shifts, and it identifies the levers that inform
Along with our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, we
our response and actions. Through our enterprise Health for Humanity and UN SDGs 2020
also announced our commitment in 2016 to support
principles—to remain broadly based in healthcare, Performance Summaries
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
use our reach and size for good, lead with agility and
In 2016 we set an ambitious five-year plan to continue (SDGs), the global framework for progress toward
urgency, and invest for enduring impact—we frame
advancing better health for all, environmental a more sustainable future for all, in the areas that
the priorities for our business segments and enabling
stewardship and responsible business practices across reflect Johnson & Johnson's unique constellation of
functions. And our growth drivers—creating life-
our extended value chain by leveraging the power of our strengths: health workforce, women’s and children’s
enhancing innovation, delivering excellence in execution,
people, expertise and global partnerships. Our Health health, essential surgery, global disease challenges and
generating shared value through partnerships and
for Humanity 2020 Goals are aligned with Johnson & environmental health. This Report reflects the final year
empowering and inspiring our employees—facilitate and
Johnson's purpose and reflect the areas where we can of progress we made on our Health for Humanity Goals
accelerate our ability to drive long-term value creation.
make the greatest impact and where our stakeholders and UN SDGs Commitment and highlights how we
For our view and performance on environmental, social expect us to lead. Achieving our Health for Humanity envision living into Our Purpose through our Health
and governance, see our ESG Resources page and our Goals is integral to our commitment to create value for for Humanity 2025 Goals.
2020 ESG Summary. all stakeholders, and we consider them Key Performance
Indicators of our environmental, social and governance
(ESG) performance.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 9Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Health for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress Scorecard At-A-Glance Status‡
Health for Humanity 2020 Goals
Progress Summary 1. Develop and deliver innovative, lifechanging solutions to address the world’s major health challenges.
We achieved significant progress in our final year Expand the database, documenting the effectiveness, efficacy, and safety profile of SIRTURO (bedaquiline)
✓ Achieved
of reporting against our Health for Humanity 2020 through collaborative efforts to further increase access.
Goals. Specifically, we achieved or exceeded 16 of the Collaborate on Phase 3 trials and make regulatory submissions for rilpivirine LA, the first all injectable depot
✓ Achieved
17 targets across the goal focus areas of: providing regimen for HIV.
people with better health access and care, using 2. Deliver innovative healthcare access and training programs that impact a billion lives in underserved areas.1
fewer and smarter resources, and partnering to create
Produce and donate 1 billion doses of VERMOX (mebendazole) to treat >100 million children per year at risk for
a culture of health and well-being. The one target not + Exceeded
intestinal worms.
fully achieved was enrolling suppliers covering 80%
Deliver HIV/AIDS therapy access to a cumulative 130,000 adults and 5,000 children. + Exceeded
of our spend in our Supplier Sustainability Program.
This was due to COVID-19 impacts experienced by Deliver access to MDR-TB therapy to a cumulative 200,000 patients, potentially curing2 157,000 people3 with
+ Exceeded
Johnson & Johnson and by our suppliers. MDR-TB of the disease.
Together with partners, train 30,000 skilled birth attendants to assist 6 million births. + Exceeded
This Scorecard provides an at-a-glance view of final
progress made against our 2020 Goals. For full results, Support the delivery of 6 million vision screenings to underserved children and corrective treatments (spectacles)
+ Exceeded
see our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress as needed to 100,000 underserved children.
Scorecard. 3. Collaborate with government, nonprofit and private sector to foster new models of health that improve economic well-being and
healthcare in key emerging markets.
Activate signature partnerships/initiatives for five of our largest Consumer Health brands to promote the health
✓ Achieved
and well-being of people in need around the world.
‡ Progress against our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, and associated data,
have been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statement by ERM Drive policy thought leadership and strategic engagements to expand healthcare access and coverage in at least
CVS. three emerging markets (including Brazil, China and India), and lead three to five pilots to demonstrate the results ✓ Achieved
1 “Underserved” refers to populations that are disadvantaged because of ability of these efforts.4
to pay, ability to access care, ability to access comprehensive healthcare, or
other disparities for reasons of race, religion, language. 4. Fully integrate sustainable design solutions into our product innovation processes.
2 The cure rate is 87.8% for patients treated with bedaquiline containing
regimens, based on The Lancet Respiratory Medicine, Volume 392, September New and existing products representing 20% of Johnson & Johnson revenue achieved EARTHWARDS recognition + Exceeded
2018, Pages 821-34. for sustainable innovation improvements.
3 As communicated through the product label, SIRTURO is taken for six months
Increase the recyclability of our Consumer Health product packaging to 90+% (on a weight basis) via design and
as part of a combination therapy with multiple other drugs; in total, a patient
partnerships in five key markets where mature recycling infrastructure exists (Canada, France, Germany, UK, and
often requires up to two years of treatment to be cured. ✓ Achieved
4 Engagements are defined as contacts made between Johnson & Johnson’s U.S.).5 In three other markets where recycling infrastructure is less mature engage in partnerships to advance
Government Affairs & Policy and Global Public Health teams and the govern- material recovery and recycling efforts.
ments in each market. Pilots are defined as projects implemented among the
5. Reduce our impacts on climate and water resources.
population in markets to expand healthcare access and coverage.
5 In 2018 Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc. signed the New Plastics Economy
Global Commitment. By joining this global multi-stakeholder initiative, we set Reduce absolute carbon emissions 20% by 2020, and 80% by 2050. + Exceeded 2020 Target
a new ambitious 2025 plastics packaging commitment, which supersedes our
Produce/procure 35% of electricity from renewable sources by 2020; aspire to power all facilities with renewable
2020 target. Progress against the new 2025 commitment is reported in the + Exceeded 2020 Target
Product Sustainability section of this Report. energy by 2050.
6 Based on spend data from prior calendar year. Conduct a comprehensive water risk assessment at 100% of manufacturing/R&D locations and implement
7 The COVID-19 pandemic impacted both Johnson & Johnson’s capacity to resource protection plans at the high-risk sites. ✓ Achieved
perform supplier assessments and our suppliers’ ability to dedicate time and
resources to meet the requirements of our Supplier Sustainability Program. As 6. Collaborate with our suppliers to accelerate environmental and social improvements across the value chain.
a result, we were unable to assess, and therefore unable to enroll enough of our
supply base to achieve our 2020 target. Enroll suppliers covering 80% of our spend6 in our Supplier Sustainability Program.  Not Achieved 7
8 Represents spend we have control over/addressable spend, defined as
products and services that procurement teams can negotiate with suppliers to Consistently achieve benchmark spending with U.S. diverse suppliers and small suppliers and double the number
+ Exceeded
meet business goals. of countries with established supplier diversity and inclusion programs.8
9 We count our 28,000 active employees who completed ENERGY FOR
PERFORMANCE training prior to January 1, 2016, toward progress against this 7. Empower and engage the Johnson & Johnson family of employees to become the healthiest workforce.
target.
10 Defined as 100% implementation of policies, programs and practices for both Empower and engage employees toward a “personal best” in health and well-being via: training of at least
healthy eating and healthy movement. 100,000 employees in the principles of ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE;9 connecting at least 100,000 employees
+ Exceeded
to their health via innovative digital health tools; and providing access to at least 100,000 employees to both fully
implemented10 healthy eating and fully implemented healthy movement cultures.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 10Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
UN SDGs Commitment Progress Summary UN Sustainable Development Goals Commitment Progress Scorecard Progress for 2016 – 2020‡
At-A-Glance implementation years
The cumulative progress reported here is for the
2016 – 2020 timeframe and represents an at-a- Health Workforce: A world where the current and future healthcare workforce has the necessary competencies to deliver high-quality
healthcare.
glance view of final progress made against our initial
SDG commitment. We exceeded four out of the five 902,000 healthcare providers (139%
targets across the aspirations of health workforce, of overall goal achieved)
650,000 health workers will have received training to better deliver quality healthcare.
essential surgery, global disease challenges and
+ Exceeded
environmental health. We did not fully achieve our
target relating to women’s and children’s health due Women’s & Children’s Health: A world where every woman and child survives and has the opportunity for a healthy future.
to a change in strategy (see footnote below). For
50.9 million women and children (85%
additional details on progress see our full UN SDGs
of overall goal achieved)*
Commitment Progress Scorecard. 60 million women and children will have received support and tools to enable a healthy future.
 Not Achieved
Essential Surgery: A world where safe, essential and timely surgical care can be accessed by all to save lives, prevent disability, promote
economic growth, and reduce social marginalization.
74.9 million beneficiaries
(150% of overall goal achieved)
50 million people will have had access to safe, essential and timely surgical care.
+ Exceeded
Global Disease Challenges: A world where innovations and holistic health solutions
prevent, control and eliminate global disease challenges and epidemics.
520 million beneficiaries (297% of
175 million individuals will have benefited from Johnson & Johnson solutions that prevent, control and overall goal achieved)
eliminate global diseases.
+ Exceeded
Environmental Health: A world where all people have healthy places to live, work and play.
74 million citizens across 30 cities
benefited from climate and air quality
60 million citizens living across 30 cities will have benefited from climate and air quality actions that
actions through 2020
have the potential to positively impact public health.
+ Exceeded
‡ Progress against our UN SDGs Commitment, and associated data, have been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statement by ERM CVS.
* This five-year target is predominantly supported by Johnson & Johnson Foundation grants facilitated by the Global Community Impact organization. We are reporting
the target as not achieved due to a shift in our strategy in 2019, which transitioned from programs primarily reaching consumer groups directly to programs targeting
frontline health workers (i.e., nurses, midwives, and community health workers). We believe this transition will have greater, more far-reaching and sustainable impact
on women’s and children’s lives in the longer term. The COVID-19 pandemic has underscored the critical needs facing our frontline health workers and their unique
ability to address the healthcare needs of our society, and in particular, the underserved. The new commitment we announced in early 2020 acknowledges the pivotal
role that health workers play in providing essential services to these groups. As such, the programming and tracking toward the original goal transitioned, with fewer
programs directly reaching women and children and more programs reaching the health workers who serve them.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 11Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Health for Humanity 2025 Goals
Our new Health for Humanity 2025 Goals represent
an ambitious next step in our journey to profoundly Pandemics & Global Health
impact the trajectory of health for billions of
Epidemics Equity
people. Our Goals were informed by our Priority
Topics Assessment, the SDGs and the trends and
events of 2020. They were based on a collaborative
cross-functional approach, supported by a clear
Preventive Viral Vaccine Global Access Plans Access to Schizophrenia
governance and oversight structure including two
Capabilities Treatment
Executive Committee sponsors, and informed by Access to Tuberculosis Treatment
internal and external stakeholder feedback. The Vaccination Monitoring Platform Reduce Burden of Obstetric
Support Frontline Health Workers
2025 Goals were reviewed and approved by our Fistula
Developing Tuberculosis
full Executive Committee and reviewed by the Access to HIV Treatment
Treatment Healthcare for Women
Board of Directors’ Science, Technology &
Sustainability Committee. The 21 Goals reflect our
commitment to advance a healthier world where
people and communities can thrive so the next
generation is healthier than the last. Through our Our People Our Planet Our Partners
Goals, we will actively contribute to 11 SDGs, which
span global health, social justice, environmental
stewardship and responsible business practices,
while taking on two of the most fundamental health Women in Management Renewable Electricity Supplier Sustainability Program
challenges of our time: pandemics and epidemics,
Ethnic/Racial Diversity Carbon Neutrality for Global Supplier Diversity
and global health equity.
in Management our Operations and Inclusion
Our Goals progress in future years will be
Black/African Americans Scope 3 Emissions Reductions Partnerships for Good
tracked and independently assured against Key
in Management
Performance Indicators identified for each Goal.
Our 2025 Goals are highlighted throughout this Healthiest Workforce Score
Report.
Women in STEM²D
Learn more: Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
UN Sustainable Development Goals
Johnson & Johnson strongly supports the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development. Through our
Health for Humanity 2025 Goals, we are contributing
to the global effort to achieve a majority of the SDGs
by supporting 11 of the 17, spanning the spheres
of global health, social justice, environmental
stewardship and responsible business practices.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 12Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Sustainability pandemic and the social and racial injustice movement Participation in strategic initiatives: To support
on stakeholder views regarding sustainability priorities dialogue and efforts related to the role of business
for Johnson & Johnson. in society, we continued to participate in important
Governance
initiatives like the Council for Inclusive Capitalism with
For more information, see our Position on Sustainability
The Vatican, Chief Executives for Corporate Purpose’s
Governance.
GRI 102-19, 102-20, 102-21, 102-26, 102-29, 102-32 CEO Investor Forum and Business Roundtable (BRT).
Johnson & Johnson’s Chairman and CEO, Alex Gorsky,
Robust governance structures with clear chains Engaging with Our Stakeholders
serves as Chair of BRT's Corporate Governance
of accountability enable us to deliver on both our GRI 102-12, 102-13, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44
Committee while Wanda Hope, Johnson & Johnson’s
commitments and stakeholder expectations. Our
As a global healthcare company, Johnson & Johnson Chief Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Officer, chairs
sustainability governance includes Board of Directors
interacts with numerous stakeholder groups at the BRT’s Diversity and Inclusion Working Group. In
oversight, management accountability, corporate
global, national and local levels. Our Credo, written December 2020, Johnson & Johnson was recognized
policies and management systems, and clearly stated
more than 75 years ago, embraces the diversity of as the first foreign-funded open innovation platform
public policies and positions on key environmental,
stakeholders to whom we are responsible, and serves as to have been accredited by the Shanghai Municipal
social and governance (ESG) topics. We view effective
our guide to creating long-term value for our Company People's Government, allowing Johnson & Johnson
management of these matters as a business fundamental
and for society. Ongoing and proactive engagement to support Shanghai in the development of globally
and seek continuous improvement in these areas
with these groups makes our Company stronger and influential scientific innovation centers. In September
because they underpin the long-term success of
better informed. It helps us gain valuable insight into our 2020, Johnson & Johnson joined other life sciences
our Company and our ability to deliver value for our
stakeholders’ perspectives and the topics that matter companies and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in
stakeholders.
to them. It enables us to develop products and services signing an unprecedented communiqué that outlined
The Johnson & Johnson Enterprise Governance that are responsive to their needs. This engagement also a commitment to equitable access to the innovations
Council (EGC) serves as the primary governance allows us to share information about our Company’s being developed to fight the COVID-19 pandemic.
body overseeing ESG topics and supporting the strategy, practices and performance. The following are
Engaging with policymakers: As a global company,
implementation of the Company’s Enterprise Risk select examples of stakeholder engagements conducted
Johnson & Johnson works with patient groups,
Management Framework. The EGC is comprised in 2020.
providers, governments, and other stakeholders
of senior leaders who represent our Pharmaceutical,
Stakeholder engagement on ESG: The PTA is an worldwide to ensure patients have access to affordable,
Medical Devices and Consumer Health business
important mechanism to engage with and understand safe, quality healthcare. We work with health systems,
segments and our global enterprise functions with
the views of our key stakeholders on ESG topics that so they may recognize and value medical innovation,
oversight of these priority issues.
they believe are priority for Johnson & Johnson. and we support others who share our goals. We are
In 2020, the EGC considered an assessment of its In 2020, we conducted a PTA update that engaged committed to working with stakeholders so they have
current governance structure and kicked off a project Johnson & Johnson leaders spanning multiple functions a better understanding of the positions we take, why
to optimize governance to reflect the evolving nature of and geographies, and external stakeholders including we take them and how we work to advance them.
management of ESG topics across the Company. The NGOs, partners, suppliers and customers.
In 2020, we engaged in a variety of forums in the United
EGC also oversaw the work of the Enterprise Human
Members of both our management team and the Board States and around the world to advance policy related
Rights Governance Council, which reports to the EGC
of Directors met virtually with many shareholders to the efficient and equitable access for COVID-19
and is responsible for strengthening our approach to
around the world to discuss our Health for Humanity vaccines. Further, recognizing the pandemic’s impact
human rights due diligence and management. See our
sustainability approach and our progress in key ESG on health inequities and the importance of addressing
section on Human Rights. In addition to developing an
measures. In June 2020, we hosted our third Health for the needs of diverse populations, we supported the
ESG training program for EGC members and their teams
Humanity Report investor webcast to accompany the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of
launching in 2021, the EGC oversaw the process for
release of our annual Health for Humanity Report. It America’s release of industry-wide principles to address
setting our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals. The EGC
provided shareholders the opportunity to ask questions diversity in clinical trials and participated in a Women's
also oversaw and supported the Company’s Priority
of leaders in Investor Relations, Quality & Compliance, Congressional Policy Institute briefing on “Childbirth
Topics Assessment (PTA) update undertaken in late 2020
Medical Safety, Global Public Health and Environmental Should Not be a Death Sentence: Global Maternal Health
to better understand the impacts of the COVID-19
Health, Safety & Sustainability. and the Impact of COVID-19.” We also advocated for key
2020 Health for Humanity Report 13Increasing importance
Johnson & Johnson Perspective
(Impact on business)
ecnatropmi
gnisaercnI
Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
pieces of legislation, including the Black Maternal Health Sustainability We have been conducting PTAs every two to three years
Momnibus Act of 2020 in Congress and extending since 2008, with our most recent in-depth assessment
Medicaid’s postpartum insurance coverage for conducted in 2019. In light of the global events of
Priorities
pregnant women from an arbitrary 60-day period 2020, we conducted an interim 2020 PTA update to
to the 12 months following birth. As the founding understand if and how this pivotal year may have shifted
knowledge partner and sponsor of All Policies for a GRI 102-47 the stakeholder perceptions regarding Johnson &
Healthy Europe, in 2020 we helped develop numerous Johnson’s ESG priorities. The update showed evidence
Stakeholder expectations and the business environment
publications across thematic areas of the economy for increases in importance of 13 topics with the largest
in which we operate constantly evolve. Our PTA process
of well-being (covering COVID-19, health systems increases for Diversity, Equity & Inclusion, Strengthening
helps us identify and prioritize the environmental, social
sustainability, value-based healthcare, mental health Health Systems and Access. A detailed description of
and governance (ESG) topics that matter most to our
and cancer), digital health and environmental health. the 2020 PTA process, methodology and definitions of
stakeholders and to our Company. The results inform
Please see our approach to Public Policy Engagement. topics can be found here.
and shape our sustainability priorities, public goal setting
Engaging with ESG standard setters: In 2020, the and reporting.
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in partnership with
the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, published
a new framework called the Culture of Health for
Business (COH4B), as part of a goal to stimulate private
sector contribution to health through the practice 2020 Priority Topics Matrix
of sustainability reporting. The publication followed
two years of consultation and development, in which
Johnson & Johnson participated as a member of the External Consumer &
Patient Safety
COH4B Advisory Committee. In this 2020 Health for Stakeholder Advancing
Public Health Product Quality
Humanity Report, we report our performance against Perspective
Access
COH4B practices and metrics. Visit the Reporting Hub (Degree of Sustainable
to see our COH4B Framework. s ct oa nk ce eh ro nl )der Products E Ct oh mic ps l& ia nce
Climate, Energy Use Strengthening
& Emissions Health Systems
Improving our ESG Policies and Positions: As
transparency and disclosure on ESG has become of Human Rights Disclosure R&D Investment
& Transparency Pricing
increasing interest among various stakeholders, we have Bioethics Diversity, Equity
continued to improve our disclosure on key ESG topics & Inclusion
Responsible
in 2020 with separate positions on a discrimination- Water Management Supplier Base S Wa ofe rk & fo H rce ealthy C & y Pb rie vr a R ci ysk
free workplace, our innovative ecosystem, our efforts
Local Economic
to strengthen health systems and our commitment Waste Management Development
t Po o b licu is ei sn e &s s P oc so in tit oin nu si .ty. For more information see ESG Governance S C Illu o icp u ip tn l Tty e r arIn f det ee itg &ri ty, DigitaW & l IDo nr nek ovf e vo alr o tc p ie om nA et ntr taction
& Emerging Technologies
Stakeholder engagement for this Report: Various Intellectual Property
internal stakeholders across Johnson & Johnson’s global
teams provided their input for this Report. The Chairman
and CEO, the Disclosure Sub-Committee and the
Disclosure Committee reviewed the Report outline and
new metrics, and the Disclosure Committee reviewed
the full Report. The final content was reviewed by the
full Executive Committee, including the Chairman and
CEO. See also our Position on Stakeholder Engagement.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 14Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
United in
Defeating
COVID-19
In late 2019, reports of a novel coronavirus sparked international
concern among the scientific community. Within months, SARS-
CoV-2 had spread to nearly every continent, shutting down entire
cities and countries and igniting a global effort to find a vaccine that
could stop the virus from impacting more damage.
Since then, the COVID-19 pandemic has stretched global healthcare
systems and posed a critical challenge for governments, healthcare
authorities, health professionals and the industries supporting the
healthcare infrastructure.
Whether directly or indirectly, COVID-19 has had a drastic and
oftentimes devastating impact on the lives of people worldwide.
Restrictions and isolation have placed people under great stress
where limited access to healthcare continues to take a severe toll on
mental health leading to increased anxiety and fear.
Throughout our more than 130-year history, Johnson & Johnson has
a legacy of responding during crisis. We have actively engaged in
fighting global outbreaks from tuberculosis to HIV and Ebola. Our
knowledge and experience, successes and setbacks alike inform
everything we have done to tackle COVID-19.
Johnson & Johnson moved swiftly, mobilizing our research teams,
establishing key partnerships and collaborations, and committing to
put every resource at the Company's disposal to develop a vaccine
to help combat the pandemic. In just over a year, our dedication
came to fruition with the delivery of a COVID-19 vaccine candidate
at a not-for-profit price that has been approved for emergency use
as a single-dose injection in countries around the world. Taking into
account issues of access, equity, supply chain infrastructure and the
varied needs of a global population, we are providing an important
component to a worldwide vaccination strategy for a virus unlike
anything we’ve seen in a century.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 15Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
While our global efforts have focused on combating the COVID-19
pandemic and ensuring care for those directly affected, the need to COVID-19 Pandemic Governance: Structure and Roles
maintain healthcare for those with other medical conditions while
also providing support for those feeling the social, economic and
mental health impacts of the pandemic has been equally important. Executive Committee
We have leveraged the full scale of our science, capabilities, • Enterprise oversight, strategic direction and approvals
expertise and team of more than 136,000 compassionate colleagues
to address the many different facets of one of the most significant
healthcare crises in our history.
Global Pandemic Crisis Management Team
Structuring our COVID-19 response: From the outset, Johnson &
• 30 subject matter experts in relief and emergency supplies, employee well-being and support,
Johnson formed a dedicated Global Pandemic Crisis Management
travel and security, facility opening readiness, communications and clinical services
Team to combat and mitigate the negative impact of the COVID-19
• Global guidance and governance
pandemic on our business. More than 50 global cross-functional
• Global standards for employee protection and business continuity
teams with representation at all levels worked together to make
• Providing resources in support of our business and our people
the best decisions for their local geography while driving global
alignment and consistency.
See here for the most recent updates on our continued efforts
to address the COVID-19 pandemic. Regional Subject Matter Experts
• Formed at a regional/country level to coordinate response and recovery
• Operational coordination and regional alignment
In this section, we describe the main elements of how
we are united in defeating COVID-19 under four themes:
Local Leadership & Crisis Management Teams
Caring for Patients
• Local teams formed at site level to manage site responses to a business continuity question
Supporting the Front Lines of Care • Pandemic plan execution
• Facilities management in accordance with global guidelines
Protecting Employees
• Local communications and leadership/employee engagement
Supply Chain Resilience • Local feedback
2020 Health for Humanity Report 16Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Caring for Patients
During the COVID-19 pandemic, we have maintained
a dual approach to caring for patients:
First, we continued to meet the ongoing needs of
patients and the continuity of supply of our lifesaving
medicines, consumer health products and medical
devices during these challenging times.
Second, we leveraged our resources to accelerate
the development of an effective COVID-19 vaccine
and screened compounds in discovery and
development within our organization to determine
whether previously tested medicines can be used
to help patients.
Advancing a Vaccine
Vaccines are key to eradicating the COVID-19
pandemic. For years, Johnson & Johnson has
invested in building state-of-the-art antiviral and
vaccine capabilities, which we have used to develop
and manufacture our Ebola vaccine regimen and
construct our investigational Zika, RSV and HIV
vaccine candidates. We have used these capabilities
and facilities to accelerate our efforts to develop a
ABOVE: Wang D., a Senior Strategic Account Manager for Medical
COVID-19 vaccine, moving with the utmost urgency
Devices at Johnson & Johnson China, helped coordinate Johnson &
while ensuring quality, compliance and safety
Johnson’s donations of Company products and globally sourced
protocols are observed. Within a year, we began
personal protective equipment in Wuhan, where he lives with his
manufacturing our single-shot COVID-19 vaccine,
family, during the pandemic.
authorized by the Food and Drug Administration for
emergency use. LEFT: Laura G., Health Economics & Access Manager, Johnson &
Johnson Medical GmbH, is a former general nurse who used
Johnson & Johnson’s COVID-19 Medical Personnel Leave
Policy — which enabled medically trained employees worldwide
to take a paid leave to provide medical services and help diagnose,
treat and contribute to public health support for COVID-19 — to
volunteer in the ICU at a hospital in Hamburg, Germany.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 17Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Timeline of Johnson & Johnson’s COVID-19 Vaccine Development (through March 31, 2021)
PRIOR TO COVID-19 JANUARY 2020 FEBRUARY 2020 APRIL 2020 SEPTEMBER 2020
More than 100 years Initiated development Formed an expanded Cofounded the Pandemic Joined biopharma
of experience, research of a vaccine candidate collaboration on the Action Network with companies in a
and development against COVID-19 and vaccine program with the Bill & Melinda Gates #WeStandWithScience
expertise in combating collaborations to screen BARDA. Foundation, with support pledge to prioritize the
epidemics, pandemics a library of antiviral from additional global safety and well-being
Together with BARDA,
and global pathogens therapies that provide partners. of vaccinated individuals
we committed to invest
that threaten public relief in advance of new in the development of
more than $1 billion to This new advocacy and
health. therapy development. COVID-19 vaccines.
co-fund vaccine research, communications initiative
Johnson & Johnson Our vaccine program development, and clinical aims to advocate for The pledge, signed by
introduced the epidemic leverages Janssen’s ADVAC testing. policy changes and Johnson & Johnson’s
mask in 1919 to help technology that was used increased resources to CEO and CEOs of
contain the Spanish Flu. in the development of ensure countries are better eight major biopharma
Thereafter followed our investigational Ebola prepared to prevent, detect companies, outlines a
notable successes in vaccine, which is currently and respond to future united commitment to
vaccine technology for deployed in the Democratic pandemic threats. uphold the integrity of the
diseases such as Ebola, Republic of the Congo and scientific process as we all
Zika and HIV, creating Rwanda, and also used to worked toward potential
a strong foundation for construct our investigational global regulatory filings
the development of a Zika, RSV and HIV vaccine and approvals of the first
vaccine that is effective candidates. COVID-19 vaccines.
in containing COVID-19.
Johnson & Johnson
epidemic mask during
the 1918 flu pandemic.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 18Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Timeline of Johnson & Johnson’s COVID-19 Vaccine Development (through March 31, 2021)
DECEMBER 2020 FEBRUARY 2021 MARCH 2021
Read the full details of each of these milestone events in
Signed an Agreement Received EUA from the Received additional
our vaccine development in our COVID-19 Media Center.
in Principle with Gavi FDA for our single-dose authorizations and
to supply our COVID-19 COVID-19 vaccine to approved listings
vaccine to lower-income prevent COVID-19 in for our single-dose
countries in 2021. individuals 18 years of COVID-19 vaccine.
age and older.
We will provide up to Received Conditional
500 million doses of our To learn more about our Marketing Authorization
COVID-19 vaccine in COVID-19 vaccine, see the (CMA) by the European
2021 and 2022 under our Product Fact Sheet. Commission, Authorization
Agreement in Principle with under Interim Order
The Vaccine Alliance (Gavi), by Health Canada for
the leading multilateral Emergency Use, and
organization responsible Emergency Use Listing
for equitable access to (EUL) by World Health
vaccines and coordination Organization.2
of COVID-19 vaccine
distribution, including to
lower-income countries,
via the COVAX Facility. ~45,000participantsenrolled in 17 countries have ongoing
our single-dose Phase 3 ENSEMBLE trial Phase 1, 2, 3 trials
Aiming for ~30,000participants ENSEMBLE Phase 3 topline data
to be enrolled in our two-dose demonstrated that the vaccine candidate met
regimen Phase 3 ENSEMBLE 2 trial primary endpoints
Vaccine Manufacturing,
Supply and Access
Our vaccine is estimated
The Company’s anticipated to remain stable fortwo
m e 2 i g onn 0 roca ga v2 ln au eb 1u n d rl sef n iia zu n mi ac pt g t t ept iu t oo nl hr y n ti m o sn sc sg ae eo net m si dtm i gmi gte n ls il oeti n f m bdue a l e w llw n y itti el hsl a , r y a m b 2n -e eo 8da an °r a ts t C h tma es /t ma o 3- x2 f 6pi m0 w °e –° ru hC 4am i t 6c/ u °ho - r Ff4 ect s° ahF n or fe e M s 4 f brt e° eoo lC er os e z wt / e fr roe 4 -s 1of 0 8r cdi ° °lg o a F Ce ctr a k a o n / t ir d no 0b r a °s e t Fl o o iw r
Transportation and storage of
our vaccine iscompatible with
standard vaccine storage and
distribution channels
2020 Health for Humanity Report 19
We plan to
Access to We aim to make our allocate up to
vaccine available on a 500 million
a Vaccine not-for-profit basis for vaccine doses to
emergency pandemic use lower income
countries
J&J Works in Partnership
Johnson & Johnson is collaborating to help ensure our research platforms and
outbreak expertise can be maximized to stem this pandemic. We have worked
closely with clinical trial investigators and governments around the world, in
addition to partnering with the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development
Authority (BARDA), the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Beth Israel
Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC).
For more information on Johnson & Johnson's approach to help combat COVID-19, visit jnj.com/coronavirus.
The Janssen COVID-19 Vaccine has not been approved or licensed by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) but
has been authorized by FDA through an Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) for active immunization to prevent
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) in individuals 18 years of age and older.
The emergency use of this product is authorized only for the duration of the declaration that circumstances exist
justifying the authorization of the emergency use of the medical product under Section 564(b)(1) of the FD&C Act, unless
the declaration is terminated or authorization revoked sooner.
Please read Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) Fact Sheet for Healthcare Providers Administering Vaccine (Vaccination
Providers) including full EUA Prescribing Information available at www.JanssenCOVID19Vaccine.com/EUA-factsheet.
The COVID-19 vaccine has also been granted a Conditional Marketing Authorization from the European Commission for
use in 27 member states of the European Union (EU), plus Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein,
and has been issued an Emergency Use Listing by the World Health Organization.
i https://www.fda.gov/consumers/consumer-updates/are-you-storing-food-safely
This factsheet has been approved for U.S. use only. For use outside of the U.S., local reviews and approvals in the © Johnson & Johnson
country must be conducted before use. Last updated: May 2021Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
• Supporting our manufacturing collaborators with we are collaborating with other companies developing
on-site personnel and expertise in quality, safety, COVID-19 vaccines to enable the sharing of and access
manufacturing technical operations and compliance. to datasets relevant to vaccine safety surveillance and
the development of a registry to monitor vaccine safety
Quality and compliance in the development of our in pregnancy.
COVID-19 vaccine: We maintain a strong focus on
Assuring cyber protection for vaccine development:
quality, compliance and excellence in our COVID-19
Our Information Security & Risk Management (ISRM)
vaccine program through a dedicated Quality &
team launched a COVID-19 Vaccine Cybersecurity
Compliance team to ensure compliance readiness at all
Program, dedicated to the security of our vaccine
levels; collaborating with regulatory agencies including
development, manufacturing and distribution. The
the FDA and EMA, and enlisting an independent Data
program included targeted protection for key personnel
and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) made up of clinical
We are harnessing our deep scientific expertise, or those with a public or media presence, detection and
research experts, physicians, and statisticians to monitor
collaborations and global reach to keep the public response activities, securing collaboration methods with
safety data and clinical trial progress.
informed on the latest scientific developments internal and external partners, raising user awareness
relating to COVID-19 and vaccines. We raised of secure methods for data sharing, enhancing security
the bar for transparency with the introduction of measures through focused security monitoring,
“
The Road to a Vaccine, an educational video series conducting security assessments of critical partners
hosted by Lisa Ling, which examines the latest and vendors, and deploying advanced threat detection
We are committed to our
efforts to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic and protection capabilities. We also collaborated with
and breaks down the complex process of high-quality, safety and government agencies, industry groups, and key partners
developing a vaccine. The series also shares the ethical standards each and to share threat intelligence. See also our Positions on
latest developments on the work underway by Information Security and Data Privacy.
every day, and the quality of
many to bring access to a vaccine to billions
Diverse representation in COVID-19 vaccine trials:
around the world. our investigational vaccine
As part of our commitment to the communities most
candidate is no different; we
impacted by COVID-19, we have ensured a diverse and
Additional considerations and initiatives in our COVID-19 will never compromise quality representative group of study volunteers in our vaccine
vaccine program included: clinical trials. Such representation helps us learn how
and safety for speed.
differences like age, race and ethnicity may impact
Resourcing for quality during COVID-19: We joined our
the efficacy and safety of our vaccine candidate. The
peer companies in signing a historic pledge to uphold the Carol Montandon, Worldwide Vice ENSEMBLE Phase 3 clinical trial for our single-dose
integrity of the scientific and manufacturing processes in President, Global Chief Quality Officer,
COVID-19 vaccine enrolled approximately 45,000
developing an investigational COVID-19 vaccine. And, at Johnson & Johnson
participants from eight countries, with volunteers
Johnson & Johnson, we continue to ensure all aspects of
representing age and ethnic/racial diversity.
our COVID-19 vaccine development program meet our
safety and quality standards. This includes: Approximately 45,000 enrolled participants
Commitment to safety in COVID-19 vaccine clinical globally across eight countries
• Dedicating employees with deep expertise in
trials: We set up an independent, external expert Safety
infectious disease and vaccines to focus solely on
Advisory Board for advice on post-authorization safety Asian 3%
vaccine development; 6%
planning through our COVID-19 vaccine clinical trial 66%
19%
• Appointing a senior Quality Leader to serve in a newly program. We have partnered with external independent Black/African American 13%
created role focused on the execution of vaccine safety panels, health authorities, institutional review 45%
Hispanic/Latinx
15% 34%
development, manufacturing, storage and distribution; boards and cross-industry consortia. We have also
9%
• Creating a new website to enable customer access published our statistical approaches and clinical trial Native American 1% Age 18-59
protocols, an unprecedented step in our commitment to 59%
to product information and up-to-date expiry date of White/Caucasian Age 60+
transparency throughout clinical development. Further, 74%
COVID-19 vaccines under EUA; and Interim data as of 27 January 2021,
Global US subject to change
2020 Health for Humanity Report 20Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Leveraging real-world data to support COVID-19 response through companies focused on public health COVID-19 vaccine on the Black community and mental
vaccine development: Our teams from Epidemiology, threats and emerging infectious diseases. Blue Knight health realities for Black America.
Research & Development, Data Sciences, Global Clinical companies continue to be selected on a rolling basis
Advocating for health equity: In the context of the AIDS
Organization and scientists across the United States and include those working to fill gaps in the current set
2020 conference, Macaya Douoguih, Head, Janssen
collaborated to analyze data to predict the optimal of potential COVID-19 solutions, as well as solutions for
Clinical Development and Medical Affairs, Vaccines,
locations for our vaccine trials, enabling enrollment of future health threats.
published an open letter on systemic racism and health
people with a higher likelihood of developing COVID-19,
disparities, in which she urged all to understand that
thereby enhancing the design of the clinical trials for
“ COVID-19 causes substantially more morbidity and
our COVID-19 vaccine candidate. This data-driven
mortality in underserved, underrepresented populations
prioritization of participants at high risk of symptomatic
and that more must be done to drive equity in our global
infection based on demographics, occupation, Because we never stopped
approach to managing through the pandemic.
and/or underlying health conditions involved extensive putting the world’s most
collaboration with local healthcare systems leaders
vulnerable and underserved
in different regions. Our Johnson & Johnson Office
of the Chief Medical Officer (OCMO) team also populations at the heart of Dr. Douoguih noted: No single organization
co-led the COVID19 Rapid Collaboration Call with the can solve the full range of these challenges.
everything we do, we have
European Health Data & Evidence Network (EHDEN) However, together as a community we must
never been in a better position
in spring 2020 to provide financial and technical support step up and act. At Johnson & Johnson, our
for harmonizing data to the Observational Medical to secure their health. actions are focused in three areas that we
Outcomes Partnership (OMOP) common data model, believe are essential to drive change:
to help facilitate more rapid open science on COVID-19. Martin Fitchet, M.D., Global Head, 1. Strengthening data and insights on
Solving critical COVID-19 questions with health Global Public Health, Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 health disparities;
data science: In March 2020, Johnson & Johnson 2. Driving health education and awareness, to
co-led the Observational Health Data Sciences and accelerate the development of solutions and
Informatics (OHDSI) four-day Virtual Study-A-Thon strategies to address health disparities; and
to generate immediate RWE on prioritized questions Helping Eradicate Health Inequities
3. Supporting community leaders and frontline
shared by national governments and other healthcare
While developing a safe and effective vaccine against health workers with the resources they
organizations and design COVID-19-specific studies that
COVID-19 has been a major focus since the start of need to improve the health and vitality of
can be validated when such data are available. Eighty-
the pandemic, we have placed equal importance on underserved communities.
eight hours of collaboration between more than 350
addressing the disproportionate effect of the pandemic
participants from 30 countries resulted in innovative
on ethnically diverse communities. Through Our Race
studies aimed to generate new findings to aid decision-
to Health Equity initiative, we seek to help eradicate
making in response to the pandemic. The studies Promoting Black maternal health: In 2020, our Health
health inequities for people of color, many of which have
were published in The Lancet Rheumatology, Nature of Women team within OCMO prioritized two maternal
emerged or been exacerbated by the COVID-19 crisis.
Communications and The Lancet Digital Health. health issues: understanding COVID-19 in pregnancy and
We are working directly with many branches of addressing the Black maternal health crisis in the United
Partnering to accelerate response to health threats:
government and partnering with advocates, NGOs States. Colleagues from Health of Women introduced a
We announced the first companies to participate in
and leadership bodies like the U.S. Congressional “No Patient Safety Without Equity” campaign to educate
BLUE KNIGHT™, our joint initiative with BARDA. This
Black Caucus Foundation (CBCF) to lend our voice women about the relationship between COVID-19 and
joint initiative aims to stimulate innovation and incubation
and expertise to improving health outcomes in Black maternal health. They worked with our Worldwide
of technologies that improve health security and
communities. In 2020, we supported as a title sponsor Government Affairs & Policy team and other partners to
CBCF's “Policy for the People” webinar series with advocate for key pieces of legislation, including the Black
experts, prominent thought leaders and CBC members, Maternal Health Momnibus Act of 2020 in Congress and
debating issues of public policy related to COVID-19. In extending Medicaid’s postpartum insurance coverage
February 2021, we partnered with CBCF to deliver the for pregnant women from an arbitrary 60-day period
2021 Health Equity Summit addressing the impact of the to the 12 months following birth.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 21Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Addressing Patient Needs tech-based solutions for the most pressing COVID-19 a public information and resource hub, aimed to inspire
healthcare challenges. More than 500 hackers joined people to prioritize their health and reach out to their
Our initiatives addressing broader patient needs in the
the first NurseHack4Health event in May 2020 and over healthcare professionals about deferred care. My
context of the COVID-19 pandemic include providing
650 participated in the second event in November 2020. Health Can’t Wait offers resources for patients and for
tools to help people through the pandemic, developing
View the video here. healthcare professionals, including personal stories of
solutions to health issues exacerbated by COVID-19,
patients facing different health challenges during the
and securing the availability of urgent equipment and Doubling access to ventilators: In March 2020, Ethicon,
pandemic.
products. Examples are: a part of JJMDC, and Prisma Health collaborated to
deliver an urgently needed ventilator expansion device Meeting demand for consumer health products: As the
Leveraging our innovation platforms: In May
called the VESper™ Ventilator Expansion Splitter. COVID-19 pandemic swept across the globe, Consumer
2020, Johnson & Johnson GPH and JLABS together
VESper was authorized by the FDA for emergency use, Health responded to support nurses, hospitals and local
launched the DR-TB Lifeline QuickFire Challenge,
allowing a single ventilator to be fitted with the Ventilator community organizations; convert manufacturing lines
a hackathon-style initiative aimed at finding creative,
Splitter to enable two rescuable COVID-19 patients to to produce hand sanitizer; and increase production of
community-based solutions to help ensure continuity
receive ventilatory support until individual ventilators high-demand products to meet the needs of consumers
of care for drug-resistant tuberculosis (DR-TB)
could be made available. The innovative collaboration everywhere.
patients in high-burden countries in the midst of the
used 3D printing technology to bring the splitter rapidly
COVID-19 pandemic. These solutions will be critical Adding hand sanitizer availability: Given the spike
from prototype to launch in just 10 days. Leveraging
in addressing the serious disruptions in DR-TB care in demand for hand sanitizer with the outbreak of
our key supplier relationships, we manufactured and
caused by COVID-19, which has weakened already- COVID-19, our China Consumer Health team rapidly led
distributed thousands of VESper units at no cost to
fragile health systems. Infrastructure typically used to the development and launch of BAND-AID® Isopropyl
healthcare providers in the United States. In March
diagnose and provide in-patient care for DR-TB patients Alcohol (BIPA) hand sanitizer for Chinese consumers,
2021, Johnson & Johnson earned a Gartner, Inc. Power
has been reallocated to the fight against COVID-19. increasing local production capacity by a third while
of the Profession Award in the category of “Customer
Lockdowns have made it difficult for DR-TB patients increasing the alcohol concentration from 60% to 70%
or Patient Innovation of the Year” recognizing VESper’s
to access face-to-face care, putting efforts to ensure for increased efficacy. Completing regulatory licensing
contribution.
treatment adherence and prevent the development approval and new bottle designs, the team launched in
of drug resistance at risk. The five winning innovators a record two months, with a target annual volume of
received grant funding from a total of $250,000 and two million units. The manufacturing technology for
the opportunity to engage with experts from Johnson & BIPA has now been introduced at our facilities in
Johnson to help bring their ideas to life. Thailand to enable further access in Southeast Asia.
Similarly, our LISTERINE manufacturing facility in
Engaging nurses in COVID-19 innovation: The
the United States switched several lines from making
Johnson & Johnson Nurses Innovate QuickFire
mouthwash to producing hand sanitizer for distribution
Challenge Series invites nurses worldwide to develop
to our employees and health and community service
and share novel treatment approaches that have the
workers on the front lines of care. To date, we have
power to profoundly change human health. Nurse
donated hundreds of thousands of bottles to frontline
innovators with the best ideas receive up to $100,000
workers in communities most impacted by COVID-19.
in grant funding, access to mentoring from Johnson &
Johnson and access to our JLABS ecosystem to Minimizing COVID-19 risks from tobacco use: In 2020,
help bring their ideas to life. In 2020, we launched The VESper™ Ventilator Expansion Splitter a new Access Initiative for Quitting Tobacco (AIQT)
two challenges directly related to COVID-19, one was launched by the World Health Organization, aimed
relating to COVID-19 patient care, and one relating Helping patients prioritize healthcare: Following at helping the world's 1.3 billion tobacco users stop
to mental health. Both challenges received hundreds a survey conducted by The Harris Poll on behalf of smoking through improved access to smoking cessation
of submissions. Additionally, Johnson & Johnson Johnson & Johnson,3 in which it was found that 68% services and medicines such as nicotine replacement
partnered with SONSIEL, Microsoft and dev up to of Americans said they or someone in their household therapy. This program became an even more urgent
launch the NurseHack4Health virtual hackathon series delayed or canceled healthcare services due to priority given the higher likelihood of smokers to have
to encourage nurses and technology specialists to find COVID-19, JJMDC introduced My Health Can’t Wait, severe outcomes from COVID-19 than non-smokers.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 22Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
To support this effort, Johnson & Johnson Consumer Helping healthcare providers with online care:
Health donated nearly 380,000 NICORETTE InvisiPatch Building on our established HealtheVoices online patient
“
nicotine patches to treat 5,400 people in Jordan, advocate platform, we launched HealtheVoices for
supporting the Jordanian Ministry of Health in its healthcare providers in partnership with an advisory
We are humbled and proud to
comprehensive AIQT smoking cessation programs. board of healthcare experts. Through this new platform,
we delivered virtual sessions to guide care providers use our legacy and resources to
Contributing to eye health: As part of ongoing initiatives
of all specialties in topics such as using social media
to help support eye care in the wake of COVID-19, invite more people to put care
to build a supportive community, practicing self-care,
Johnson & Johnson Vision, part of JJMDC and a global
elevating issues of health inequities and continuing to in the world during a time when
leader in eye health, made a donation of $320,000
reach and provide care for patients online. we need it most.
to Optometry Cares – The American Optometric
Association (AOA) Foundation and the American Improving tools for patient outreach in Africa:
Academy of Optometry Foundation. As we are an Johnson & Johnson supported repurposing patient Dawn Hampton, Vice President, North
AOA Recovery Partner, our donation provides financial outreach tools to help local health workers provide America Consumer Experience Organization
support to practitioners uniquely impacted by COVID-19. real-time support as part of an intensified COVID-19 (CxO), Johnson & Johnson Consumer Health
Additionally, shortly after the outbreak of COVID-19 response. In Uganda, our mobile health (mHealth)
in Wuhan, China, the Johnson & Johnson Vision team platform, CONNECT FOR LIFE, originally introduced
responded to requests for disposable contact lenses for to help encourage adherence to ARV therapy among
medical workers in Wuhan, due to problems wearing people living with HIV, is now being used to make Caring for caregivers: BAND-AID® Brand Adhesive
eyeglasses under newly required safety goggles. Within automated phone calls to individuals quarantined Bandages and Care® partnered to deliver “CARE
eight days, the team packed off a shipment of 1,364 because of COVID-19. In Zimbabwe, a local youth-led Packages” including meals, personal protective
1-DAY ACUVUE TRUEYE packs along with hand cream organization, Youth Advocates Zimbabwe, leveraged its equipment (PPE) and critical healthcare and delivery
and LISTERINE. Youth Helpline to disseminate messaging on COVID-19 services to caregivers on the front lines of the COVID-19
to thousands of recipients and respond to calls regarding pandemic. BAND-AID® Brand Adhesive Bandages
Supporting Local Communities COVID-19. The Youth Helpline was developed as part of donated $100,000 to Care® and encouraged consumers
the DREAMS Partnership that supports young women to send Care Packages to support frontline heroes and
Alongside broader support we provided to healthcare
with and at risk of HIV infection; Johnson & Johnson is caregivers around the world for 100 days, aligning with
professionals, nurses and caregivers, (see the section
an anchor partner of the DREAMS Partnership which the 100th anniversary of BAND-AID®
Supporting the Front Lines of Care), Johnson &
is also supported by PEPFAR, the Bill & Melinda Gates Brand Adhesive Bandages.
Johnson made several meaningful contributions in our
Foundation, Girl Effect, Gilead Sciences, and ViiV
communities, for example: Donating PPE: While not a manufacturer of PPE,
Healthcare.
Johnson & Johnson donated significant quantities of
Resources for medical professionals: We created the
PPE, hand sanitizer and other needed support to local
COVID-19 Resources Center to help meet the immediate
communities, including healthcare workers around the
and pressing needs of surgeons and other healthcare
world. For example, in the initial period of the pandemic,
professionals. The Center is powered by dialogEDU
we donated over $3.7 million (20 million yuan) in PPE
and was created by our Johnson & Johnson Institute
for frontline health workers in China, one million masks,
in collaboration with the Advances in Surgery (AIS)
100,000 protective suits and 100,000 pairs of goggles.
Channel. More than 30,000 healthcare professionals
viewed the AIS resources the first day they became
available. Will Song, Chairman of
Johnson & Johnson China
and President of Johnson &
Johnson Medical China, helps
prepare a globally sourced PPE
An advertisement for the Youth Helpline featuring young women delivery from a warehouse in
serving as ambassadors in their community. Shanghai, China.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 23Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Supporting the
Donating resources Strengthening health systems
Partnering to donate PPE for health workers, training, Supporting coalitions that strengthen the health system
Front Lines of Care technology, and other immediate support for communities response and protect frontline health workers
At no other time in our history have frontline health
workers been more prominent than during the
COVID-19 pandemic. Their importance was no
revelation for Johnson & Johnson: we have consistently
Deploying digital health technologies
acknowledged, recognized and supported health
Building connected health systems by making mobile technology accessible, supporting real-time
workers since the 1800s, appreciating their contribution information technology and using digital platforms to help educate health workers
to improving access, adherence and providing multiple
Working with organizations, in partnership with the World
services for patients.
Health Organization and national governments, to use mobile
technologies to encourage healthy behavior and support patient
monitoring and real-time updates for communities and health
workers. Organizations include:
Our Center for Health Worker Innovation, Helping educate health workers at scale and providing updates Investing in software and program tools that scale up digital
launched in 2019, catalyzes our efforts to build in response to changing needs and health worker feedback. technologies for disease surveillance, contact tracing, case
a thriving health workforce and is underpinned Collaborations include: management and referral. These tools help community health
workers achieve maximum safety and efficiency in their work.
by a $250 million, 10-year commitment by the
Developers include:
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies and
the Johnson & Johnson Foundation to support
one million nurses, midwives and community
health workers reaching 100 million patients
by 2030, as reflected in our Health for Humanity
2025 Goals. Supporting the resilience of frontline health workers
Providing mental health and psychosocial support for health workers in overwhelming need
Co-creating evidence-based resources to support health worker Supporting individual health workers experiencing emotional
resilience, working with Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public and mental distress through community-based outreach
Health, Thrive Global, and the CAA Foundation. programs in several countries with organizations such as:
The Center for Health Worker Innovation is delivering a
global portfolio of programs in regions with the highest
community health burdens and frontline health worker
gaps. In March 2020, we added a further $50 million to
this budget to support frontline health workers battling
COVID-19, with a focus on the safety, well-being and
resilience of health workers while helping to improve
the quality and availability of digital tools to further
empower their work. The Center supported the front Raising awareness and support
Leveraging the power of social media to raise awareness and garner support for frontline health workers
lines of healthcare in 2020 in a range of ways working
with multiple partners across the globe. Through the first half of 2020, in Our #BacktheFrontline campaign on
collaboration with the American Nurses social media generated thousands of
Association (ANA), we aired our “SEE YOU messages in support of our frontline
NOW COVID-19: The Nurse Response” healthcare professionals, raising
podcast series, shining a light on the awareness for specific needs and
challenges and experiences of nurses encouraging donations and engagement.
through the pandemic.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 24Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Protecting Employees
Ensuring the Health and Safety of our Employees in the Workplace
We transitioned nearly two-thirds of our workforce to remote working at the onset
Protecting and supporting our employees has been a top priority throughout
of the pandemic, providing employees where relevant with necessary equipment
the pandemic and our approach has included:
and connectivity to work effectively while informing them of the necessary health
• Keeping employees informed; and safety precautions for the remote working environment. Similarly, we developed
guidance, tools and tracking mechanisms to effectively leverage Flexible Work
• Ensuring the health and safety of our employees in the workplace;
Arrangements, as for many, a “regular” working day was not possible because
• Supporting employees with pay continuity, benefits and well-being tools; and of individual remote working circumstances.
• Recognizing employee contributions at work and in our communities. Return to work in Waves: For the return to the workplace, we developed a
comprehensive, phased approach, prioritizing employee health and safety.
We have instituted a variety of workplace enhancements for the one-third of We categorized five return to work “Waves,” with Wave 0 representing our
our global 136,000+ employees who, as essential workers, continued to work at Onsite Superheroes who remained in the workplace for essential work through
Johnson & Johnson sites and facilities every day throughout the pandemic, and the pandemic, Waves 1 through 3 representing gradual expansion of workplaces,
supported others as they adapted to remote work arrangements. In line with our and Wave 4 representing unrestricted workplaces that we hope to achieve globally
own standards and guidance from local healthcare and governmental authorities, in 2021.
we have gradually and thoughtfully been returning our people to the many places
Onsite safety measures: Across our workplaces, we put in place safety measures that
we work.
addressed key site-specific needs in our various types of environments including:
Keeping Employees Informed
Workplace physical distancing
At the start of the crisis, we established several communication channels so that
Enhanced cleaning, sanitization practices and new signage at our facilities
employees could stay informed about the COVID-19 situation in their region, receive
guidance in relation to Johnson & Johnson’s approach, and ask any question at Mandatory use of masks
any time and receive a fast response. We also conducted employee sentiment
Visitor restrictions
surveys weekly to gather feedback on a number of topics, including engagement,
organizational support, and awareness and availability of resources. These surveys Temporary physical barriers and furniture reconfiguration
help to uncover how we can best support our employees and shape our approach. Key
Temperature screening and symptom questionnaires in line with government
channels, in addition to these surveys and regular employee communications, included:
recommendations and indirect screening for symptomatic employees
J&J Responds intranet
COVID-19 resources and regular newsletter
COVID-19 questions In March 2020, with an impending shortage of
Bank of responses to wide-ranging questions on any aspect of COVID-19 alcohol-based hand sanitizer to protect our essential
onsite colleagues, we retrofitted manufacturing
COVID-19 hotline
lines across several operations to produce hand
7 days a week, 24 hours a day, in local language
sanitizer. In just four days, we created a formula,
AskGS assessed manufacturing capabilities, and ensured
Global Services team portal providing rapid responses to COVID-19 questions the standards met U.S. and European safety and
quality regulations. Our first shipment commenced
Video messages from our CEO and leaders
with 140,000 bottles to our essential U.S. sites and
Regular updates and encouragement to our global employees
employees, followed by a ramp-up in production
to allow for worldwide internal distribution. We
subsequently distributed this alcohol-based hand
sanitizer to hospitals in need around the world.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 25Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Medical support: Within days of identifying the first risk of COVID-19 for our During the pandemic, our objective was not only to protect the safety of our
employees in China, Johnson & Johnson established a clinical team around the world employees, but also to help them navigate the pandemic financially, practically
to support employees who had been potentially exposed to or infected with COVID-19. and in a healthy state of mind. A selection of the benefits we provided follows:
The global medical staff within Global Health Services provided tens of thousands
of employees with medical case management and clinical support throughout the
pandemic. Continuing salary A one-time Onsite Coverage of the full
and benefits Superhero award cost of in-network
COVID-19 testing and vaccinations: During the year, Johnson & Johnson employees
telemedicine visits
were able to receive COVID-19 tests at any approved testing facility, and in the 9 weeks of base salary and Approximately $1,000 (differing
United States, employees covered by Johnson & Johnson health insurance benefited benefits for those unable to by country) and one additional for any diagnosis, including
work remotely working week of paid time off COVID-19 for employees in the
from a home diagnostic test for COVID-19 at no charge. We established a COVID-19
for tens of thousands of essential U.S. and for telemedicine advice
Workforce Vaccination Taskforce to enable our workforce and their families to gain on-site employees for COVID-19-related symptoms
efficient access to COVID-19 vaccines through a coordinated, appropriate, and for employees outside the U.S.
informed approach in line with governmental guidelines and priorities in each country.
Guidance for employees on information security and data privacy: In response to the
COVID-19 pandemic, our Information Security & Risk Management team launched an
Continuity of our global Additional back-up Engagement in our
employee awareness campaign around protecting our employees' own data, and that
Employee Assistance dependent care 2020 global activity
of others, and also the security of Company data and systems, especially in remote
Program challenge
working situations. We provided guidance on secure remote working practices, in the U.S. to support caregiving
guidelines for social media use and how to recognize COVID-19 social engineering and 24/7 access to counselors who needs for children and elders Employees took part in 70
understand pandemic-related when regular care is unavailable countries, demonstrating a
phishing scams, highlighting ransomware attack methods and how to protect against stress for employees and their significant increase in physical
them. We utilized our security technology capabilities to both identify and block family members activity
inbound email scams and phishing threats sent under the guise of COVID-19.
Supporting Employees with Pay Continuity, Benefits
and Well-Being Tools
Expanded access to a Expanded global Recharge days
digital resilience tool exercise reimbursement
Our offices and sites
“ Resiliency assessments, Substantial reimbursement for closed Company-wide for
mental well-being educational health and well-being activities, two days, one in May and
and engagement resources including the purchase of one in September, to allow
At Johnson & Johnson, we have long championed policies that provide and daily tips to support mental home exercise equipment and colleagues to recharge
flexibility for our employees to balance personal and professional well-being subscriptions (including mental
responsibilities, and we are continuously evaluating our offerings to meet health apps)
the ever-changing needs of employees. When the pandemic hit, our teams
acted quickly and strategically in order to adapt to meet the health and
well-being needs of employees, enhancing our available resources into
Hosted health and Remote home office
virtual programs that are accessible across our global network.
well-being webinars reimbursement
Peter Fasolo, Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer,
Live and on-demand trainings Reimbursement for home office
Johnson & Johnson worldwide to support total equipment, including monitors,
health and well-being and build printers, furniture, office
resiliency while navigating the supplies, incremental internet
pandemic or mobile service and more
2020 Health for Humanity Report 26Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Recognizing Employee Contributions Employee volunteering: At the outset of the pandemic, Celebrating Onsite Superheroes: On our global
at Work and in our Communities Johnson & Johnson introduced a new global Medical intranet platform, we shared several personal stories
Personnel Leave Policy. Medically trained employees of our Onsite Superheroes and their dedication in
We could not be prouder of our employees’ resilience
who were called to serve, or who volunteered, benefited the workplace during the COVID-19 pandemic. Their
through the pandemic, both those who transitioned
from paid leave to serve their communities in diagnosing, individual stories illustrate the strength of Johnson &
to remote working and those who continued in the
treating and providing health support for patients with Johnson employees from around the world and their
workplace. We saw an outpouring of compassion
COVID-19. More than 100 medically trained employees contributions in the most challenging of times.
and caring from our colleagues in every country at
volunteered their time to combat COVID-19, supported
every level and a sense of solidarity as we brought our
by an investment of $600,000 by Johnson & Johnson.
respective energies together to help each other and
our communities make it through the crisis. Employees Employee fundraising: Employees across Johnson &
volunteered time and donated to relief efforts, and we Johnson engaged in raising funds for COVID-19
all celebrated the inspiring dedication of those who response efforts through CARINGCROWD—our
maintained onsite operations. crowdsourcing platform created and operated by
Johnson & Johnson Global Public Health (GPH).
Through CARINGCROWD, employees led 27 distinct
pandemic relief projects, including providing meals to
“ frontline healthcare workers, supporting hospital staff,
fighting COVID-19-related hunger, and addressing the
Every day, I went to the needs of underserved people, including members of
the Latinx community and the Navajo nation. Johnson &
hospitals to communicate Johnson contributed 20% of the funding goal to kick
off every employee-led COVID-19 project. In total,
with medical workers. I was CARINGCROWD efforts garnered over $340,000 in
pledges for COVID-19 relief in 2020.
afraid of infecting my son,
See our video of special messages from Johnson & Johnson
so I wore a mask all the leaders to our Onsite Superheroes and their reactions from our
sites around the globe.
time. Every night, we’d do
a video call with his mom.
“ Every day, when I leave home I think of my family and hope I come
Wang Donghua, Senior Strategic Account
back safely. It helps so much that when I arrive at work, our leaders tell
Manager for Medical Devices, Johnson &
us that we need to return home as safely as when we got there—and
Johnson China, who hand-delivered PPE
then they back up their words with actions. At this critical moment,
and other supplies to healthcare facilities
they are providing hand sanitizer and masks, increasing cleaning
at the outset of the outbreak in Wuhan,
procedures, holding extra safety meetings and asking us about our
China. Wang’s wife is the head nurse in the
families and daily routines. We are the on-site superheroes and
respiratory and critical care department of
appreciate that the Company is taking such good care of us!”
a hospital in Wuhan, and at the time she was
staying in a hotel to avoid infecting her family
Elaine Faria de Almeida, Production Operator, Johnson & Johnson
with COVID-19.
Consumer Health, Brazil
2020 Health for Humanity Report 27Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Supply Chain Resilience
We have robust business continuity plans in place across our global supply chain
network, prioritizing our response efforts across two key dimensions – potential
impact to public health, followed by level of impact to critical lifesaving products.
Ensuring Supply Chain Continuity
Throughout the pandemic we have worked closely with suppliers, distributors,
local governments and regulators and have continued to provide critical medicines,
products and services, while protecting the health and safety of our more than
136,000 employees around the world.
As a Company, we have maintained robust business continuity plans across our
global supply chain network to prepare for unforeseen events and to meet the
needs of the patients, customers and consumers who depend on our products.
These steps include maintaining critical inventory at major distribution centers
away from high-risk areas around the world and working with external suppliers
to support our preparedness plans. See our Position on Business Continuity
Management.
A key component of assuring business continuity is our employees. We have
instituted a variety of workplace enhancements for the one-third of our people
who have remained on-site, while the other two-thirds have adapted to remote work
arrangements. The next phase of our journey involves the continuation of gradually
and thoughtfully returning more of our people to the many places we work. See
COVID-19: Protecting Employees.
Our technology ecosystem in action: Through our Johnson & Johnson Technology
teams, we supported a wide range of activities within the scope of our COVID-19
response with several technology innovations and data science-driven tools. For
example, we created a COVID-19 Visibility Dashboard to help understand near-real-
time product availability for fact-based decisions regarding planning, distribution and
business continuity as a result of emerging demand impacted by COVID-19. We also
developed an End-to-End Network Scenario Impact Simulation tool to help minimize
supply disruptions using highly automated scenario risk simulation technology. In
Consumer Health and Medical Devices, we have been able to predict the impact
of raw material supply fluctuations on our capacity to better sustain supply and
meet demand surges. At Janssen, we can predict the impact of changes to external
supplier capacity on our inventories and service levels. These and many more
initiatives have enabled business continuity and ongoing supply for our patients,
consumers and customers.
Our frontline Superheroes were instrumental in distributing the initial shipments of the first doses
of our COVID-19 vaccine.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 28Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Partnering with our suppliers: Through the pandemic,
the strength of our longstanding partnerships with
“
suppliers and service providers was demonstrated
through the many initiatives led by our Procurement
Achieving end-to-end supply chain readiness on a global level
organization to meet critically urgent needs arising
from the disruption caused by COVID-19. Such
takes the effort of thousands of people—all of whom are
initiatives included:
committed to putting the patient first. We are setting up a global • using data science to identify high-risk individuals to
shorten clinical trial recruitment times and increase
supply chain network that we expect will enable us to deliver at
representation of diverse populations;
a rate of more than one billion doses per year. • expanding our supplier financing program to protect
small and diverse businesses during the pandemic;
• establishing dual sourcing channels where necessary
Paul Lefebvre, Vice President, COVID-19 Vaccine Supply Chain program, Johnson & Johnson
and reserving capacity for materials and equipment;
• implementing efficient and robust selection and
onboarding procedures for external manufacturing;
Expanding vaccine manufacturing capacity: We Preparing delivery capabilities: To further enhance
launched unprecedented efforts to develop and scale a our global delivery capabilities while meeting • developing product and materials testing procedures
COVID-19 vaccine to address the global pandemic. We Johnson & Johnson’s high quality and safety standards, by engaging with new testing facilities;
are establishing new vaccine production capabilities we took several new measures. These included
• tailoring a solution to accelerate contractor hiring to
through collaborations with external manufacturers in adding cold chain capacity by building new freezer
support elevated resourcing needs;
the United States and various other countries, while also storage and distribution capabilities in under four
scaling up our in-house manufacturing. Importantly, we months; and working extensively with transportation • identifying scalable, temperature-controlled logistics
expect these efforts will enable us to deliver our vaccine partners to ensure suitable logistics capabilities, options to meet specific new demands; and
at scale worldwide. Our Supply Chain teams worked including temperature monitoring and track and trace
• partnering to develop a globally managed contact
closely with our external manufacturing collaborators technologies for transactions across the supply chain.
center for medical information to support customer
to help them gain the knowledge and government The use of innovative technology solutions and increased
engagement demands.
approvals required to receive, manufacture, package and collaboration across the supply chain assisted in
transport our Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine. We supporting these new requirements.
Enabling virtual auditing and manufacturing: In
will continue to invest in collaborations so we can bring
Watch the journey of our COVID-19 vaccine candidate. response to stay-at-home orders around the world,
our full resources and best scientific minds to combat
our Quality & Compliance organization expanded
this pandemic.
its “See What I See” (SWIS) Smart Glasses internal
Navigating regulatory processes: In a rapidly changing program. SWIS is currently used to support virtual
regulatory environment, our Quality and Regulatory auditing and clean room sterilization, allowing us to
Affairs teams navigated multi-country regulatory conduct elements of various processes and inspections
regimes, interpreting regulations and reviewing virtually, eliminating health risks to employees for on-site
manufacturing processes to facilitate EUA strategies inspections. We are expanding use of the SWIS program,
and readiness to support the delivery of critical existing allowing more employees to reduce physical contact
and new products needed to fight the pandemic. points wherever possible. At many Johnson & Johnson
This included regulatory approvals for our innovative locations, the combination of smart glasses technology
VESper™ Ventilator Expansion Splitter, TYLENOL and privileged remote access to essential data has
production ramp-up, hand sanitizer line conversion, enabled manufacturing to continue without interruption.
and most notably, our COVID-19 rapid vaccine
The first doses of our COVID-19 vaccine leaving the warehouse.
development program.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 29Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Better Health
for All
Our progress in advancing better health for all reflects our 130+
year legacy, the efforts of 136,000+ employees who make up the
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, and our extensive global
networks and partnerships. A vision for better health for all unites
our employees and ignites our passion to improve healthcare for
patients, consumers and their families, and for all the healthcare
professionals and caregivers who support them.
Our commitment to advancing better health for all includes
multiple focus areas:
• innovating to eradicate, prevent and cure disease;
• engaging and partnering to improve access and affordability;
• investing to build the capacity of health systems;
• catalyzing efforts to support the people on the front lines of care;
and
• delivering medicines, medical devices and consumer health
products to billions of people in a way that is ethical, compliant,
efficient and respectful of human needs.
At Johnson & Johnson, the largest, most broadly based healthcare
company in the world, we believe better health for all is within
reach. We work tirelessly toward this goal.
In this section, we share our progress in 2020 in the following areas:
Innovation
Global Public Health Strategy
Access & Affordability
Strengthening Health Systems
Children participate in national de-worming campaign in Kenya, in partnership with The END Fund.
Photo by Mo Scarpelli/The END Fund.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 30Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Innovation
The Johnson Medal for Research and Development, named in honor of
General Robert Wood Johnson, Johnson & Johnson chairman from 1932
GRI J&J20-5, J&J20-10
to 1963, and author of Our Credo, is the most prestigious award given
Innovation has been the key to delivering our wide range of for R&D excellence within our Company. Since 1960, 423 scientists and
important breakthroughs in health for humanity over our 130+ engineers from our three business segments have received this award,
years as a diversified healthcare company. Our vast scope of representing a proud legacy of innovation at Johnson & Johnson.
R&D expertise across multiple pharmaceutical, medical devices
The winning teams of 2020 included 21 innovators who delivered four
and consumer health applications works synergistically to deliver
new technologies:
medicines and products that save and improve lives and strengthen
society. Our global scale and extensive collaborative partnerships
and networks amplify the reach of our innovation. The thread
that runs through all our innovation investments is our vision to
positively impact human health and build a future where everyone’s
best health is within reach.
Innovation at Johnson & Johnson is catalyzed through:
• R&D, supporting a full scale of innovation processes; Six scientists developed the AVEENO Four engineers developed the EMBOTRAP II
ABSOLUTELY AGELESS Blackberry Revascularization Device, an innovative
• Dedicated innovation centers, accessing innovation
Complex, a new, proprietary technology stent retriever that allows physicians to
from all sources;
to fight multiple signs of skin aging. capture and remove life-threatening blood
• Incubation for hundreds of startups through clots from the brain.
Johnson & Johnson Innovation—JLABS;
• Strategic venture capital through Johnson & Johnson
Innovation—JJDC, Inc. (JJDC); and
• Business development for mid- and late-stage deals
and collaborations.
All these innovation channels work across our three business
segments, often leveraging synergies between the different Five scientists and specialists developed Six scientists and clinicians discovered and
groups and focus areas. For more information about our innovation the SURGICEL Powder Absorbable developed TREMFYA (guselkumab) to treat
systems and how innovation is structured across Johnson & Hemostat, an innovative product that stops plaque psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis that
Johnson, see our Position on Innovation. disruptive bleeding during surgery. leverages the body’s immune system and
harnesses scientific advances in immunology.
Celebrating our Innovators
Across Johnson & Johnson, at any given time, there are tens of
thousands of scientists, researchers, engineers, designers and The 2020 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to Drs. Emmanuelle Charpentier of the
clinicians who are dedicated to driving innovation for the benefit Max Planck Unit for the Science of Pathogens, Berlin, Germany, and Jennifer A. Doudna
of our patients and consumers. We celebrate their achievements of the University of California, Berkeley and member of the Johnson & Johnson Board
and contribution to healthcare. of Directors, for their revolutionary discovery of CRISPR-Cas9 gene-editing technology,
considered one of the most significant breakthroughs in molecular biology in the past decade.
Both were the recipients of the Dr. Paul Janssen Award for Biomedical Research in 2014.
They join 18 scientists who have received the Dr. Paul Janssen Award since 2004, including
three who went on to win the Nobel Prize.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 31Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Innovation in Practice • Advancing cell therapy science in multiple myeloma: data science algorithms, we predicted risk factors for
We submitted a Biologics License Application to patients most likely to develop IED and incorporated
Across all our business segments, 2020 was another year
the FDA for ciltacabtagene autoleucel (cilta-cel), these insights into our development plan. By working
filled with inventive ideas that were brought to fruition
an investigational chimeric antigen receptor T to reduce the total sample size required and to
through our diverse innovation systems and platforms.
cell (CAR-T) therapy, for the treatment of adults improve trial speed and efficiency, we can help bring
Our achievements in 2020 include:
with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. In this treatment option to patients faster.
Pharmaceutical innovation: Our pharmaceutical R&D 2017, Janssen entered into an exclusive worldwide
• New research collaboration and licensing
focuses on areas of medicine where we can make the agreement with Legend Biotech USA Inc. to develop
agreements: We are continuously seeking new
most meaningful impact on unmet patient needs. These and commercialize cilta-cel.
partnerships to advance our pharmaceutical
include: Cardiovascular & Metabolism, Immunology,
• Working to reduce the risk of stroke: We continued innovation, and in 2020, examples include an
Infectious Diseases & Vaccines, Neuroscience,
in the second year of our HEARTLINE Study in agreement with Xencor, Inc. to focus on the discovery
Oncology, and Pulmonary Hypertension. We apply
collaboration with Apple, which aims to analyze and development of antibodies for the treatment of
our R&D expertise in small molecules, monoclonal
whether a heart health engagement program patients with prostate cancer, an agreement with
antibodies, cell and gene therapies, RNA therapeutics
and Apple Watch can enable the early detection MacroGenics, Inc. to develop a potential best-in-
and vaccines, and study biological pathways that
of irregular heart rhythms consistent with atrial class antibody to treat autoimmune diseases, and
underpin more than one disease to help speed the
fibrillation, and potentially improve heart health an agreement with Lava Therapeutics N.V. to develop
development of new therapies for multiple diseases.
outcomes, including reducing the risk of stroke antibodies to gamma-delta T cells for the treatment
We leverage data science to reimagine the discovery
and other cardiovascular conditions. of cancer. We also entered into an expanded R&D
of new medicines.
agreement with Monash University to further advance
• Revolutionizing adherence for schizophrenia
In addition to innovation noted in our section on Global the clinical development of inhaled oxytocin for the
patients: We filed a supplemental New Drug
Public Health Strategy and in our United in Defeating prevention of post-partum hemorrhage (PPH) in
Application to the FDA for paliperidone palmitate six-
COVID-19 section, we progressed across several developing countries. PPH, a condition of excessive
month (PP6M) for the treatment of adults diagnosed
fronts in 2020 to provide transformational medicines blood loss after birth, is the world’s leading cause of
with schizophrenia. If approved, PP6M will be the
to patients, including: maternal mortality, resulting in an estimated 60,000
first and only long-acting injectable schizophrenia
deaths per year in resource-limited countries. In
• Pioneering treatment for inherited retinal disease: medication with a twice-yearly dosing regimen
these countries, access to oxytocin is often limited
Inherited retinal disease X-linked retinitis pigmentosa (previously requiring monthly or quarterly treatments),
as current products are only available in an injectable
(XLRP) causes progressive vision loss from childhood revolutionizing how adults with schizophrenia can be
form requiring refrigerated supply and storage and
to adulthood, resulting in legal blindness typically by treated and facilitating higher rates of adherence. See
trained personnel to administer the product safely.
age 40. Currently, there are no approved treatments. more in our section on Mental Healthcare.
An inhaled form of oxytocin, that does not require
Our investigational adeno-associated virus (AAV)-
• Breakthrough treatment for lung cancer: We sought refrigeration, would offer a unique solution that could
RPGR gene therapy for the treatment of XLRP, jointly
FDA and EMA approval of amivantamab for the save the lives of thousands of women.
developed with MeiraGTx Holdings plc, was granted
treatment of patients with metastatic non-small cell
Fast Track Designation by the FDA and PRIME • Expanding our capabilities in autoimmune diseases:
lung cancer whose disease has progressed during
(PRIority MEdicines) and Advanced Therapy Medicinal Our immunology pathway strategy creates an
or after chemotherapy. This marks the first-ever
Product designations by the EMA. opportunity to develop therapies for multiple
regulatory submission for the precision treatment of
potential indications across autoimmune diseases
• Reducing treatment time for patients with patients with this lung cancer variation.
with substantial unmet medical need. Our acquisition
multiple myeloma: We received approval from the
• Predicting risk factors in E. Coli vaccine clinical trial: of Momenta Pharmaceuticals,Inc., a company
FDA for DARZALEX FASPRO (daratumumab and
Extraintestinal pathogenic Escherichia coli (ExPEC) is that discovers and develops novel therapies for
hyaluronidase-fihj), and from the EMA for DARZALEX
a leading cause of bacteremia and sepsis worldwide immune-mediated diseases, advances our progress
SC, for the treatment of patients newly diagnosed
and can cause severe invasive ExPEC disease (IED). in developing medicines for rare and autoantibody-
or with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma.
To combat ExPEC, we are developing a novel vaccine driven diseases including maternal-fetal disorders,
This subcutaneous, fixed-dose formulation reduces
candidate to prevent IED in adults aged 60 and older. neuroimmune disorders, rheumatology, dermatology,
treatment time from several hours to minutes.
Using real-world electronic health record data and and autoimmune hematology.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 32Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Medical Devices innovation: As pioneers in medical JJMDC innovation progress in 2020 includes:
devices, Johnson & Johnson Medical Devices
• Success in treating atrial fibrillation: This year, our
Companies (JJMDC) continually focuses on elevating
Biosense Webster business received European CE In 2020, we achieved a milestone of
the standard of care, working to expand patient access,
mark approval for QDOT MICRO Catheter, a next- one million patients globally who have
improve outcomes, reduce health system costs and
generation high-power, short-duration ablation received our ATTUNE Knee System,
drive value. We use our extensive expertise in surgery,
catheter that has demonstrated the ability to reduce delivered by our DePuy Synthes company,
orthopaedics, interventional solutions and vision
total procedure time,4 and FDA approval for the part of JJMDC. Backed by comprehensive
care to deliver innovative solutions for doctors and
treatment of persistent atrial fibrillation with the clinical and performance data, the ATTUNE
patients, often in partnership with experts and specialist
THERMOCOOL SMARTTOUCH SF Ablation Catheter. Knee System alleviates the chronic pain and
organizations around the world.
These are important milestones to further treatment disability associated with osteoarthritis that
options for the millions of people who suffer from atrial affects millions of people worldwide. DePuy
fibrillation. Synthes continues to innovate to provide
“ state-of-the-art knee solutions to meet
• Seeing surgery remotely: JJMDC in the UK
the full spectrum of patient needs with the
completed its first digitally assisted case using
As we look to the future, ATTUNE Knee System.
Rods&Cones surgical glasses as part of a
Johnson & Johnson groundbreaking pilot that ensures we can continue to
help surgeons remotely, a benefit especially relevant
Medical Devices is driving during the COVID-19 pandemic that continues to
• New surgical instruments for obstetric fistula
impact hospital access. These glasses provide a
repair: There have been few innovations in surgical
innovation in a fast-evolving “surgeon’s eye view,” allowing remote communication
instrumentation for obstetric fistula repair in the last
with the surgical team throughout a procedure. This
MedTech industry and 50 years. In 2020, we collaborated with Dr. Rachel
first case was a laparoscopic liver resection carried out
Pope, Assistant Professor, Urology Institute, University
at University Hospital Southampton, assisted virtually
technology landscape. Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center, to develop or
by a technical expert from our Ethicon business.
improve three surgical instruments used during fistula
Our vision for the future • A better way to staple: Ethicon launched ECHELON surgery. These improvements aim to provide high-
ENDOPATH Staple Line Reinforcement (SLR), a novel quality instrumentation to increase patient comfort,
of medical devices is to
buttressing device designed to further strengthen maximize surgeon visibility, and improve safety for
staple lines and reduce potential complications during both the patient and the surgeon. By reducing cost
make medical intervention
bariatric, thoracic and general surgical procedures. and surgery time, the goal is to develop a sustainable
smarter, less invasive and The SLR device complements our existing stapling sourcing model in resource-limited settings.
technology that has been associated with a lower
more personalized. rate of air leaks and bleeding complications. The
prevention and reduction of leaks in complex surgical
cases is a critical success factor in these procedures.
Ashley McEvoy, Executive Vice President,
Worldwide Chairman, Johnson & Johnson • Managing astigmatism: Our new CATALYS cOS 6.0
Medical Devices Companies (JJMDC), software with advanced astigmatism management,
Johnson & Johnson developed for the CATALYS Precision Laser System
by Johnson & Johnson Vision in collaboration with
Cassini Technologies, received FDA clearance.
Limitations of the currently available diagnostic and
surgical methods are some of the key barriers to
surgical correction of astigmatism. CATALYS cOS 6.0
software offers improved astigmatism management
and improved patient experience.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 33Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Consumer Health innovation: Johnson & Johnson
Consumer Health advances personal health for
“
consumers every day with products that are rooted in
science and endorsed by professionals. We combine
At a time when health-conscious and empowered consumers
the power of science with meaningful human insights
and digital-first thinking to deliver life-enhancing, first-
are seeking solutions trusted for their efficacy and social
to-market innovation, including over-the-counter and
naturally inspired health and wellness products; high- responsibility, we can support them with iconic personal health
performance products for healthy skin; and everyday
products that deliver effective outcomes for healthier brands that drive better outcomes. We are designing products
consumers at every stage of life.
that reflect the diversity of the consumers we serve, while
Consumer Health innovation achievements in 2020
include: keeping the health of people and our planet front and center
• Better outcomes for smoking cessation: In the UK, we
to make an enduring impact on personal health.
launched NICORETTE QUICKMIST SMARTTRACK,
the first connected OTC product in the world. This
groundbreaking product is a mouth spray for rapid Thibaut Mongon, Executive Vice President, Worldwide Chairman,
craving relief, connected to a smartphone app for Consumer Health, Johnson & Johnson
tracking usage and progress against goals, as well as
receiving tips and support on how to stop smoking.
Developed in partnership with our behavioral science
experts, QUICKMIST is clinically proven to improve Accelerating external innovation: A significant benefit Supporting breakthrough healthcare innovation:
“quit” outcomes significantly when compared to of our broad and diversified capabilities across our In 2020, we were thrilled to see impressive innovators
willpower alone. three pharmaceutical, medical devices and consumer in healthcare receive recognition and awards worth
health segments is our ability to leverage the specialist $50,000 each for their breakthrough innovations to
• Healthier scalps: We launched the NEUTROGENA
capabilities of each to deliver innovations that span a improve human health and help people age well and live
Healthy Scalp collection, bringing the science of
range of health outcomes. Through Johnson & Johnson longer, healthier lives. The awards were granted in the
skincare to scalp and haircare. Healthy Scalp is
Innovation, for instance, startups, entrepreneurs and first round of the National Academy of Medicine’s (NAM)
clinically proven to cleanse and moisturize the scalp
academic researchers, among others, can discuss early- Healthy Longevity Catalyst Awards in the United States.
without stripping strands, starting with a healthy,
stage deals and collaborations, company incubation These awards are sponsored by Johnson & Johnson
gentle daily approach to overall scalp and hair health,
and other startup services, venture capital funding—or Innovation and are part of a larger NAM initiative called
while traditional haircare focuses on the strand, and
combinations of these and further support measures— the Healthy Longevity Global Competition, which is
therapeutic scalp solutions tailored to addressing
with Johnson & Johnson. In 2020, Johnson & Johnson aimed at spurring innovation that has the potential
specific scalp concerns.
Innovation launched 12 QuickFire Challenges inviting to transform the field of healthy longevity. Globally,
• Faster and more convenient pain relief: We rolled innovators to receive funding and support for new approximately 450 awards of $50,000 each will be
out TYLENOL Dissolve Packs for adults, building on technologies and therapies relating to mental health, made available by NAM and its sponsoring partners
the success of last year’s similar product designed for oncology, tuberculosis, pediatric surgery, respiratory over the duration of the multiphase competition. In the
children. This offers fast effective relief in a convenient infections, digital surgery, digital beauty and much more. final phase, by 2025, one or more Grand Prize winner(s)
powder form that dissolves without water on the A total of $1.7 million in grant funding was awarded to will each be awarded up to $5 million to help make their
tongue in seconds. 31 innovators. Read more about these and other game-changing innovations a reality.
initiatives including our JLABS incubation and startup
services in the JLABS 2020 Review.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 34Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Global Public Health Strategy
• Reaching more underserved populations through even closer collaboration across
all the Johnson & Johnson companies to leverage the full scale and synergies of
GRI J&J20-2 our resources, including deeper engagement with our Global Community Impact
organization and its commitment to support frontline health workers; and
Johnson & Johnson has a longstanding commitment to addressing unmet needs
of underserved populations. As the largest healthcare company in the world, we • Expanding our scope to include a focus on global surgery, in close collaboration
have an opportunity, and a duty, to impact the health of people everywhere, and with JJMDC. This includes obstetric fistula, a preventable and treatable birth
this is especially relevant today as the COVID-19 pandemic continues to lay bare injury caused by prolonged labor, which occurs most frequently in areas where it
and exacerbate the disparities in healthcare systems worldwide. Our industry-first, is difficult to access professional medical care. For many years, we have pioneered
fully dedicated Global Public Health (GPH) organization combines world-class programs with organizations like the United Nations Population Fund and the Fistula
research and development, global strategy and external affairs capabilities with local Foundation. Such programs reduce the suffering and stigma of obstetric fistula
implementation and impact teams to tackle the biggest health challenges facing the through community outreach, surgeon and surgical team training, product donations,
underserved, measuring our success in lives improved. and post-surgical rehabilitation. We are continuing to support women who suffer
from this devastating injury through our new Health for Humanity 2025 Goal:
The mission of our dedicated Global Public Health organization is to make
relevant innovations that save lives, cure patients and prevent disease
available, affordable and accessible for the world’s most vulnerable and 2025 Goals
underserved populations.
Reduce Burden of Obstetric Fistula
By 2025, reach 10,000 women living with obstetric fistula by
Over the past five years since the launch of GPH, we have realized significant progress
strengthening the capacity of health workers and supporting
in key areas including HIV, TB, Ebola, and more recently, COVID-19, among many
delivery of surgical repair.
others. Our ambitions for the future are captured in our Health for Humanity 2025
Goals that are embedded in the new, ambitious public health strategy that sets our
direction for the next decade. Our legacy and progress give us confidence to take on
the world’s toughest healthcare challenges and substantially increase our public health For full details of this Goal and KPI, see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
impact for billions of people in underserved communities around the world.
We will achieve our expanded impact by:
• Focusing on innovation to deliver transformational outcomes for patients across the
full spectrum of our GPH portfolio, using next-gen science to combine (i) R&D with
(ii) real-world evidence with potential for public health impact in resource-limited In this section, we share our progress in 2020 in the following areas:
settings;
HIV
• Tackling emerging pathogens by establishing the capabilities needed to identity
and develop counter measures for potential threats by building on our existing work Tuberculosis
against dengue and recent efforts on COVID-19;
Global Health Security
• Significantly scaling up our organizational capabilities to lead, manage, deliver and
Neglected Tropical Diseases
partner on a broad range of GPH initiatives, using integrated technology, patient
insights, unique collaborations and a core internal team of specialists; Mental Healthcare
2020 Health for Humanity Report 35Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
HIV
SASB HC-BP-240a.1
Global HIV Prevalence5
HIV continues to be a priority global health concern,
affecting millions of people and their families each year.
At Johnson & Johnson we aspire to make HIV history,
including through the public goals we set relating to 38 million
HIV. See our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress
people living with HIV in 2019
Scorecard for progress we made on HIV in the last five
years.
Our Health for Humanity 2025 Goal relating to HIV is
no less ambitious and focuses on providing expanded
access to our most innovative treatments.
1.7 million
2025 Goals people newly infected with HIV in 2019
Access to HIV
Treatment
By 2025, develop and enable
HIV long-acting injectable (LAI)
access solutions to provide care 25.4 million
for people living with HIV in two
people accessed antiretroviral therapy in
countries in Resource-Limited
The youth-led, peer-to-peer HIV prevention program DREAMS 2019, up from 6.4 million in 2009
Settings (RLS).
Thina Abantu Abasha reached over 1.1 million adolescent girls and
young women in South Africa in 2020.
For full details of this Goal and KPI,
see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
Treating HIV in Resource-Limited Settings
In collaboration with ViiV Healthcare, our focus is to bring a new, long-acting injectable treatment regimen
to high-burden countries where new treatment options are needed. Initially, we are planning regulatory
filings in two countries to demonstrate a path for access and availability in resource-limited countries,
where Janssen will be the lead company.
The new regimen’s availability in resource-limited countries would be significant. Because of advances in
modern medicine, HIV should no longer be considered a death sentence; however, people with HIV must
currently maintain strict, lifelong treatment regimens. Reducing the frequency of medication from daily to
six times a year may make adherence easier on a long-term basis. Also, daily pill regimens may create stigma
for those living with HIV, creating a barrier to seeking and adhering to treatment due to fear of disclosure.
Long-acting injectable regimens could provide solutions to these challenges.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 36Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Our HIV treatment and vaccine progress in 2020 includes:
Phase 3 success in HIV treatment regimen: We confirmed 48- and 96-week results of
“
our global Phase 3 trials demonstrating the safety and efficacy of long-acting injectable
HIV treatment with our rilpivirine long-acting (LA) and ViiV Healthcare’s cabotegravir
At Janssen, we are incredibly proud of this progress in achieving our goal
LA, offering people living with HIV a new approach for maintaining viral suppression.
to address some of the biggest health threats of our time. We will continue
This novel regimen was co-developed as part of a collaboration with ViiV Healthcare.
building on our 25-year commitment to make HIV history and to change the
Approvals for use of HIV treatment regimen: The first long-acting, two-drug course of the epidemic through our passionate pursuit of innovation, from
injectable regimen, co-developed in collaboration with ViiV Healthcare, has been long-term remission to effective prevention of HIV.
approved for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults by health authorities around the
world. This breakthrough two-drug injectable regimen, combining Janssen’s rilpivirine
LA with ViiV Healthcare’s cabotegravir LA,6 enables reduction of daily treatment to just Paul Stoffels, M.D., Vice Chairman of the Executive Committee,
12 treatment days a year (administered once-monthly), or in some countries, only six Chief Scientific Officer, Johnson & Johnson
treatment days per year (administered once-every-two-months)—see table below. The
long-acting injectable regimen was preferred by a majority of clinical trial patients who
tried the treatment over their previous daily, oral, three-drug regimen and represents a
milestone in enabling a better quality of life for adults living with HIV. Progress in Imbokodo and Mosaico vaccine programs: We won’t stop until we make
HIV history. Since 2005, we have progressed the development of our preventive HIV
vaccine; we are currently the only company with an HIV vaccine in late-stage clinical
HIV treatment regimen approvals development, including two large-scale efficacy studies (Mosaico and Imbokodo)
underway. The investigational HIV vaccine regimen is based on ADVAC viral vector
technology, which we have successfully reapplied in our development of a COVID-19
2020 2021
vaccine and an Ebola vaccine.
March: Once-monthly regimen January: Once-monthly regimen
approved by Health Canada approved by the FDA 2005 2014 2017 2019 2020
December: Once-monthly and once- February: Once-monthly and once-
every-two-months regimens approved every-two-months regimens approved Janssen begins First clinical trial Mosaico begins
R&D on preventive for mosaic-based in Americas
by the European Commission by the Australian Therapeutic Goods HIV vaccine vaccine regimen and Europe
Administration Im inb so uk bo -d So a hb ae rg ai nn s cIm ombo pk leo td eo s
Africa vaccinations
March: Once-every-two-months
regimen approved by Health Canada Our two investigational preventive vaccine efficacy studies are progressing in 13
countries with enrollment of 6,000+ participants, despite the challenges presented
by COVID-19. As the COVID-19 pandemic spread, the teams overseeing and staffing
Regulatory review is ongoing in several other countries around the world.
the Imbokodo study sites in five different African countries quickly secured additional
supplies of PPE for trial staff and implemented a variety of controls to ensure the safety
of study participants. Despite these challenges, all participants have since completed
vaccination. Additionally, the Mosaico trial has now opened enrollment in all trial
countries.
Our GPH team is also collaborating with organizations like the U.S. President’s
Emergency Plan For AIDS Relief, the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation,
the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and others in those countries
hardest hit by HIV.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 37Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
HIV prevention for women: The first long-acting HIV prevention method specifically HIV treatment for children in sub-Saharan Africa: Our founding role in the
designed for women, the monthly dapivirine ring, developed by the International New Horizons Collaborative (NHC) aims to provide children with HIV therapies
Partnership for Microbicides using exclusive rights to our ARV compound, received in 11 countries across the region, through drug donation—including our PREZISTA
a positive opinion from EMA as part of its EU-M4all program. In addition, the WHO (darunavir) and INTELENCE (etravirine)—and capacity building. Preliminary analysis
prequalified the ring and recommended the product in its updated HIV guidelines, from a real-world evidence study conducted by EGPAF found that among the children
which many countries use to inform their own policies. The dapivirine ring offers and adolescents enrolled in NHC receiving our medicines, 78% achieved virologic
women an alternative to existing methods, which can present challenges for some suppression at 12 months.8 In 2020, despite the COVID-19 pandemic, NHC onboarded
women, such as side effects, adherence to daily dosing regimens or a need for partner one new country, the Republic of the Congo, and continued to enroll new patients.
cooperation. The flexible, silicone ring is discreet, easy to use, has minimal side effects We are now collaborating with NHC partners to increase the program impact through
and only needs to be replaced monthly. greater technical assistance and other measures. We have also participated in the
High Level Dialogues on Pediatric HIV organized by The Vatican, which resulted in the
HIV prevention for adolescent girls and young women (AGYW): In sub-Saharan
2020 Rome 5 Action Plan and a set of specific commitments from Johnson & Johnson
Africa, our collaboration with DREAMS (Determined, Resilient, Empowered, AIDS-
focused on young people living with HIV.
free, Mentored and Safe) Thina Abantu Abasha (DTAA), a youth-led, peer-to-peer
HIV prevention program, continues to empower AGYW aged 14 – 24 with leadership, HIV diagnosis and treatment for men: As a founding member, in 2018, of the MenStar
employability, sexual and reproductive health and rights information and skills in six Coalition, aiming to expand the diagnosis and treatment of HIV infections in men,
high-incidence districts in two provinces in South Africa. The program reached 1.4 particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, we have worked with our five collaborators to guide
million young women in 2018 and 2019. In 2020, results of an independent qualitative the development of the MenStar strategy and programs. In 2020, we played a key role
evaluation of DTAA were published, with encouraging outcomes. Of those evaluated, in launching MINA, a campaign in South Africa that speaks directly to men on health
64% of sexually active young women aged 19 – 24 reported starting to use condoms, and well-being, including HIV care and treatment. The MINA campaign includes real-
88% reported starting to use contraception, and 100% reported they were tested for life stories from men living with HIV, and resources such as a roadmap to health that
HIV 7 as a result of program participation. In light of challenges due to COVID-19, more depicts the healthcare journey in a clear, concise and motivating manner.
extensive use was made of social media and communication tools to ensure continued
Piloting drones in Uganda: We are currently funding a multiyear pilot program with
reach to over 1.1 million AGYW in 2020.
the Infectious Diseases Institute in Kampala, Uganda, to explore the feasibility of using
medical drones to deliver critical treatments where they are needed most, for example,
in Uganda’s Kalangala District, which comprises 84 islands in Lake Victoria and has the
highest HIV prevalence in the nation. The goals of the program are to bring lifesaving
solutions to patients directly and efficiently, protect healthcare workers and allow them
more time with patients within their health centers. Today, health workers must travel
to patients by small boats, where they face inclement weather and risk drowning to
access these areas which will now be served by drones.
For more about our progress in HIV vaccines, treatments and collaborations, see our
HIV webpage.
Adolescent girls and young women participating in the DREAMS Thina Abantu Abasha program,
a youth-led, peer-to-peer HIV prevention program in South Africa.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 38Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Tuberculosis TB Prevalence9
SASB HC-BP-240a.1
Tuberculosis (TB), despite being preventable and 10 million 1.4 million TB is the leading
curable, continues to claim more than one million
lives each year. Our aim to enable a world without TB people developed TB people died from TB in 2019 cause of death
has for more than 20 years guided our investment in in 2019
among people living
developing an innovative treatment, expanding access
with HIV
and improving TB-related healthcare capacity. This
investment includes our 10-year initiative, announced in
2018, to combat TB, and a further commitment of $500
million to advance TB and HIV innovation over four years,
starting in 2019.
Our progress in advancing and partnering to tackle TB
The achievement of our TB Health for Humanity 2020
in 2020 includes:
Goals is a significant milestone. We continue to set “
ambitious targets as we progress toward eliminating FDA approval of bedaquiline for children aged 5 and
this disease. older: The FDA has approved SIRTURO (bedaquiline) As the world responds to
as part of combination therapy for the treatment of
COVID-19, it is critical that
multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) in infected
2025 Goals children aged 5 years and older weighing at least 15 we don’t just fight the new
kg. This new 20 mg formulation allows for dispersal in
pandemic but act decisively to
water for those unable to swallow pills and represents
Developing
an important step in modernizing pediatric therapies for mitigate the knock-on impact
Tuberculosis (TB) some of the most vulnerable MDR-TB patients.
on other diseases, protecting
Treatment Supporting the uptake of recommended MDR-TB
lifesaving programs and
treatment: Johnson & Johnson and the Stop TB
By 2030, shorten and simplify TB Partnership joined forces to scale up use of bedaquiline shoring up overstretched health
treatment by developing at least in an effort to accelerate global implementation of the
systems. This new bedaquiline
one new TB drug and/or regimen. 2019 WHO treatment guidelines. These guidelines
recommend the inclusion of bedaquiline in all-oral access agreement offers an
Access to TB treatment regimens, thus enabling home-based care and
opportunity to save more
helping protect the safety of drug-resistant TB patients,
Treatment
a critical measure during the COVID-19 pandemic. To lives through scaling up more
facilitate this, we made bedaquiline available to the
By 2025, enable access to effective treatment of a difficult-
Stop TB Partnership’s Global Drug Facility at a reduced
bedaquiline to 700,000 cumulative
price per six-month treatment course for more than 135 to-treat and deadly disease.
patients, potentially averting
eligible countries, including an escalating percentage of
6,000,000 new multidrug-
free goods when certain volume thresholds are reached
resistant TB (MDR-TB) infections.
on an annual basis.
Peter Sands, Executive Director, The Global
Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria
For full details of these Goals and KPIs,
see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 39Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Patient finding: We have supported the MTV Staying Alive Foundation to launch a
“ first-of-its-kind “edutainment” campaign called MTV Nishedh to raise awareness and
reduce stigma around TB among young people in India, as a way to encourage those
Current tools are insufficient for accelerating with TB symptoms to seek care. MTV Nishedh demonstrated the reality of living with
TB through TV, radio and online content, reaching nearly 200 million people in India
and sustaining global progress against TB. and directing more than 100,000 viewers to the National TB helpline. In China, we are
also working with the National Health Commission and the Chinese Center for Disease
Innovative partnerships, such as the PAN-TB Control and Prevention to improve MDR-TB case detection rates, covering 10 million
people in poverty-stricken regions.
collaboration, are urgently needed to develop
Preventing TB in cities: We support the Harvard Medical School and other members
new drugs and treatment regimens that can in the ambitious Zero TB Initiative that aims to create "islands of elimination" that will
contribute to lowering rates of TB in cities. In 2020, using its “Search-Treat-Prevent”
address TB and advance progress towards strategy in 31 cities across high-burden countries, the Zero TB Initiative continued to
lay the foundation for TB elimination, as well as care delivery for other infectious and
achieving global elimination TB goals.
non-communicable diseases.
Educating healthcare professionals: In the Philippines, Johnson & Johnson and
local partners, supported by the Union, a global organization working to improve
Trevor Mundel, President, Global Health, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
health in low- and middle-income countries, launched the TB Academy, an online
learning platform aimed to further the education of Filipino healthcare practitioners
and specialists in treating MDR-TB. The TB Academy program consists of three
certification training levels for clinical officers and nurses, clinicians and DR-TB
New collaboration to treat TB: We were the founding members of the Project to
experts.
Accelerate New Treatments for Tuberculosis (PAN-TB collaboration), a consortium
of philanthropic, nonprofit and private sector organizations aiming to accelerate the For more about our progress in tackling TB, see our TB Factsheet and our
development of novel “pan-TB” drug regimens. The regimens will be designed to have TB web page.
little to no drug resistance and an acceptable safety profile, and be better-tolerated,
shorter in duration and simpler to use than existing options. Together with PAN-TB
collaboration members, we committed to leveraging our resources and scientific
expertise to advance the development of such new treatments that will address the
current complexities and challenges of tackling TB.
TB initiatives during COVID-19: With the COVID-19 pandemic creating acute
challenges for TB patients and access to treatment, we advanced several initiatives
to maintain and enhance access to MDR-TB treatment during 2020. For example, our
Global Public Health and JLABS teams launched the Drug-Resistant Tuberculosis (DR-
TB) Lifeline QuickFire Challenge to generate solutions to help ensure continuity of care
for DR-TB patients. Read more about this in the section United in Defeating COVID-19:
Addressing Patient Needs.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 40Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Global Health Security RSV, HIV and Zika) and Bavarian Nordic’s MVA-
BN technology. This approval marks the first major
SASB HC-BP-240a.1
regulatory approval of a vaccine developed by Janssen
In 2020, global health security was dominated by the and enables us to collaborate with the WHO on vaccine
COVID-19 pandemic, which highlighted rapidly and pre-qualification to help accelerate broader access to
painfully how small the world really is when it comes to those most in need, including registration of our Ebola
the spread of disease. See our COVID-19 section for our vaccine regimen in African countries. This regimen is for
enterprise-wide response. The incidence and scale of active immunization for prevention of disease caused by
disease outbreaks with epidemic potential appear to be Ebola virus in individuals one year of age or older.
worsening in the 21st century due largely to urbanization,
Continued use of our Ebola vaccine regimen: In 2020,
deforestation, globalization and greater human/animal
our Ebola vaccine regimen continued to be used in
interaction.10
response to the second-worst outbreak on record, in the
Outsmarting pandemics is a complex challenge, North Kivu province of the Democratic Republic of the
requiring fundamentally robust healthcare systems Congo (DRC), which was declared over in June 2020.
around the world and collaborative, coordinated Our vaccine continues to be used as part of the Rwanda
preparedness across multiple disease areas that have Ministry of Health’s UMURINZI vaccination campaign,
pandemic potential. Johnson & Johnson is actively which was launched in December 2019 in response to
engaged in responding to and preventing a broad range the North Kivu outbreak, and is aimed at protecting
of pandemic threats; our experience in these areas has people living along Rwanda’s border with the DRC from
been built over more than a century. the threat of Ebola. To date, nearly 200,000 individuals
have received at least the first dose of our Ebola vaccine A health worker discusses the Johnson & Johnson Ebola vaccine
We maintain a wide range of collaborations to advance
regimen, many of whom live in Ebola-prone areas in regimen with a community member as part of the Government
global health security and pandemic preparedness.
Africa. of Rwanda’s UMURINZI vaccination campaign. Photo by Rwanda
One such collaboration is with the Biomedical Advanced
Ministry of Health.
Research and Development Authority (BARDA), part of
the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, to
accelerate the research and development of solutions
for a range of diseases with pandemic potential. 2025 Goals
Our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals include a key focus
Preventive Viral Vaccine Global Access Plans
on combating pandemics and epidemics.
Capabilities
See sections HIV and TB, and our United in Defeating
COVID-19 section for further information. In addition
By 2025, demonstrate the capabilities to be Contribute to addressing endemic diseases
to our work in these areas, we continue to advance
ready to respond to a pandemic or epidemic by establishing global access plans for all
ways to protect global health from diseases such as
threat within 12 – 18 months of an outbreak relevant Johnson & Johnson Global Public
Ebola, Zika, influenza and others.
by generating data to support an emergency Health and Janssen Infectious Diseases &
In 2020, we made advancements in the prevention of use submission to a stringent regulatory Vaccines R&D pipeline assets by 2025.
Ebola: authority for a preventive viral vaccine (as
first demonstrated through our COVID-19
Approval of Janssen’s Ebola11 vaccine regimen: In
vaccine program).
2020, the European Commission granted marketing
authorization for our vaccine regimen for the prevention
of disease caused by Ebola virus. The vaccine regimen For full details of these Goals and KPIs, see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
leverages Janssen’s ADVAC technology (that is also
being used to develop vaccines against COVID-19,
2020 Health for Humanity Report 41Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Supporting Ebola vaccination awareness and Collaborating to reduce emerging and endemic
engagement: We are supporting the Ebola vaccination infectious disease risk: In 2020, we continued our
campaign and community engagement through our work Forest Health Futures collaboration with EcoHealth WHO has declared that
in the EBODAC (Ebola Vaccine Deployment, Acceptance Alliance, a nonprofit dedicated to addressing emerging
and Compliance) consortium, which is funded by the infectious diseases, and the Government of Liberia. Our AMR is one of the top 10
Innovative Medicines Initiative and also includes the focus was on advancing modeling efforts that will help
London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, World the Liberian government better predict the potential risk global public health threats
Vision and Grameen Foundation. Innovative iris scanning of emerging infectious diseases, including Lassa Fever,
facing humanity.13
technology and automated phone reminders help track from development activities, and the potential risk of
the uptake and impact of the Janssen Ebola vaccine increasing rates of endemic diseases (e.g., malaria).
while a mobile training platform reinforces key Ebola
Other areas of progress in 2020 include:
messages for the community health worker population.
Unlocking the collective power of the global Growing drug resistance is compounding AMR as a
Our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals include a focus
community: In December 2020, Johnson & Johnson’s public health challenge. For example, drug-resistant TB
on using digital technologies to combat pandemics
JLABS and BARDA convened a virtual three-day (DR-TB) now accounts for nearly one-third of all deaths
and epidemics.
symposium of the BLUE KNIGHT™ community from AMR,14 with hundreds of thousands of new cases
comprised of thought leaders, innovators and of DR-TB detected each year. See also the section on TB.
entrepreneurs to explore infectious disease, public
For more about Global Health Security and our ongoing
health and acceleration of response. The sessions
2025 Goals work to address other diseases such as Malaria, Zika,
explored high-priority areas of interest for scientific
Chagas disease and more, see our Factsheet and our
and technological innovation aimed at improving our
Vaccination We Must Outsmart Pandemics webpage.
preparedness and response to emerging health security
Monitoring threats. Blue Knight is a new joint initiative formed For more information on how the intersection of
by JLABS and BARDA to stimulate innovation and human health and climate health impacts are related
Platform
incubation of technologies that improve health security. to pandemics, read our Position on Human Health and
the Environment.
By 2025, enable global/open Protection from respiratory pathogens: In 2020, we
access to a vaccination named the winner of our JLABS QuickFire Challenge,
monitoring platform for Global launched in 2019, inviting innovators to submit potential
Health Security vaccination solutions that repel and protect against airborne viruses
programs. while integrating seamlessly into everyday life. The
winner, Taza Aya, specializes in non-thermal plasmas
used to sterilize or deodorize ventilation air across a
For full details of this Goal and KPI,
range of industries and applications.
see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
Overcoming Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR):
In 2020, Johnson & Johnson joined more than 20 leading
pharmaceutical companies to collectively invest nearly
New trial for Ebola vaccine in pregnant women:
$1 billion through the AMR Action Fund with the goal
In 2020, we initiated a trial of our two-dose Ebola
of bringing two to four new antibiotics to patients by
vaccine regimen in healthy pregnant women in Rwanda
the end of the next decade. This is the world’s largest
called INGABO. Pregnant women who have contracted
public-private partnership now working to address AMR,
Ebola face increased mortality and morbidity, and a near
acknowledging that immediate action is required. As
100% rate of adverse pregnancy outcomes.12
a founding member, we committed $100 million to the
For more about our work to combat Ebola, see our Fund. For more information on our approach to AMR,
Ebola web page. see our Position on Antimicrobial Resistance.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 42Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Neglected Tropical Diseases parasitic worms, eliminating the need for lab technicians
to manually read slides and reducing the burden of
SASB HC-BP-240a.1 reporting and surveillance for country NTD program “
Our work to deliver critical solutions to combat managers. In 2020, we formed a collaboration with
Johnson & Johnson’s donation
Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs) includes both Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, through its Global
ensuring access to our medicine for soil-transmitted Health Institute, to include schistosomiasis, an NTD will improve the lives of millions
helminthiasis (STH), also known as intestinal worms, as caused by parasitic flatworms, in the AI platform.
well as advancing R&D for dengue, Chagas and leprosy. and fast-track progress towards
Continuing to combat intestinal worms: Our VERMOX
In collaboration with WIPO Re:Search, the Janssen
(mebendazole) donation program achieved its Health the elimination of disease caused
Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson
for Humanity 2020 Goal of one billion doses donated
(Janssen) share 80,000+ chemical compounds from its by parasites that have held back
from 2016 – 2020. In 2020, our donations included 50
Jump-stARter molecular library with the global research
million doses of VERMOX to the WHO to treat expanded human progress for millennia.
community to help collaborators accelerate treatment
populations such as adults and women of reproductive
and prevention of NTDs and other diseases common in
age. This donation enabled The END Fund to unlock
the developing world. Our efforts are supportive of the
additional philanthropic funding through its Deworming Ellen Agler, CEO, The END Fund
World Health Organization NTD Roadmap and its 2030
Innovation Fund to support treatment delivery and
global targets to reduce the impact of NTDs.
broader efforts to build health systems capacity in
Ethiopia, Rwanda and Kenya.
treatment option. Our antiviral treatment is now
in Phase 2a clinical development. Also, during 2020,
More than 1.7 billion people are affected by
we signed a Memorandum of Understanding agreeing
NTDs, comprising about 20 communicable
to collaborate with King Abdullah University of Science
diseases that cause debilitating conditions Since the VERMOX
and Technology to explore opportunities for research
and morbidity.15
and innovation in NTDs with a specific focus on dengue
(mebendazole) donation
fever.
program’s inception in
Combating leprosy: More than 200,000 new cases
of this ancient disease were reported in 2019,16 and
2006, approximately
we continue to investigate how to simplify and shorten
NTDs disproportionately impact the most 1.8 billion doses have the current multi-drug therapy regimen, address the
vulnerable individuals in low-resource challenge of drug resistance and decrease transmission.
countries, often due to inadequate sanitation been donated, treating A Phase 2/3 trial is being planned to evaluate the
and living in areas infested with vectors that efficacy and safety of bedaquiline in participants with
transmit these diseases. up to 100 million children leprosy.
annually. For more about our progress in tackling NTDs, see our
web page on NTDs.
Our progress in 2020 in reducing the impact of NTDs
includes:
Using data science to advance innovation in combating Milestone in preventing dengue fever: Our first-in-class
NTDs: We are currently working on the development antiviral for the prevention of dengue, both for travelers
of an affordable Artificial Intelligence (AI)-based digital and vulnerable populations living in dengue-endemic
pathology tool that will enable country programs to areas, was granted fast-track designation by the FDA
effectively monitor and target treatment for STH. The in 2020. This is strong recognition of our efforts over
prototype currently being tested automatically counts the past seven years to combat dengue, for which there
parasite eggs in stool that would develop into STH is currently no effective pharmaceutical prevention or
2020 Health for Humanity Report 43Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Mental Healthcare materials for healthcare professionals and community
health workers when in-person training was not possible.
SASB HC-BP-240a.1
Raising awareness for mental health needs: We
Mental health impacts the physical, social, and economic
continue to be active on many fronts to raise awareness
health of individuals and societies worldwide. Many
for the prioritization of mental healthcare at the global
people suffering from mental illness live in low- and
and national levels. In 2020, in honor of World Mental
middle-income countries (LMICs), where access to
Health Day, we collaborated with international advocacy
quality mental healthcare is limited. In fact, more than
organization Global Citizen to raise awareness of the
75% of people with mental health disorders in LMICs
global burden of mental illness.
receive no care at all.17 With more than 60 years of
supporting those affected by mental illness, Johnson & Ending mental health stigma: We collaborated in a new
Johnson is committed to expanding access to mental global coalition, Science Over Stigma (SOS), composed
healthcare to positively impact people’s lives. of public, private and non-governmental organizations
Johnson & Johnson is collaborating with the Government
committed to ending the stigma related to mental
Building on strong progress made to date, our new of Rwanda to help improve access to care for those suffering
health challenges, by bringing together advocacy,
Health for Humanity 2025 Goals include a specific from mental illness in the country. Photo by Devex/Will Swanson.
social and biologic sciences, and arts and culture to
ambition to improve mental health in Rwanda.
improve collective impact, deepen understanding
following a feasibility study with one-month and
of the physiologic aspects of mental illness and fuel
three-month injectables, we are conducting the first-
fresh dialogue about stigma through storytelling and
ever mental health clinical study on the benefits of
expressive arts.
2025 Goals our long-acting injectable antipsychotic (paliperidone
palmitate) for the treatment of schizophrenia in Rwandan Partnering to develop transformative treatments:
Access to healthcare settings. The study, to be completed by 2024, Through our Janssen Neuroscience group, we joined
will help build an evidence base for policy-making and a new cross-sector collaboration to accelerate the
Schizophrenia
healthcare decisions to provide innovative solutions for development of urgently needed early-stage treatments
Treatment mental health. for patients at risk of developing schizophrenia.
The five-year Accelerating Medicines Partnership
Our work in Rwanda builds on our progress to date
By 2025, we will have in Schizophrenia (AMP SCZ) project, continues our
in significantly advancing the standard of care for
demonstrated the health, longstanding commitment to develop transformational
schizophrenia patients, including:
economic, social value therapies for patients who are living with this devastating
and affordability, of using • Registration and supply of oral RISPERDAL for the disease.
paliperidone palmitate LAI to treatment of schizophrenia, and
Additional investments in mental health: We invest in
treat schizophrenia in Rwanda
• Registration of paliperidone palmitate three-month improving resilience and providing mental health and
through proof-of-concept.
as the first long-acting injectable in Rwanda. psychosocial support for health workers. See the section
Strengthening Health Systems, and specifically through
For full details of this Goal and KPI, Focus on community-based mental healthcare: 2020, our support during COVID-19 in the section
see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals. In 2020, we continued to support Partners In Health Supporting the Front Lines of Care. Similarly, we provide
as they scaled up their comprehensive model of extensive support for Johnson & Johnson employees
community-based mental healthcare to all targeted around the world, both as part of our ongoing employee
Since 2018, we have been building on our collaboration health centers and district hospitals in two districts programs and in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
with the Rwanda Ministry of Health to establish a of Rwanda, Kirehe and Kayonza. During the COVID-19 See sections Employee Health, Safety & Wellness and
proof-of-concept for an affordable model of mental pandemic, the project continued to provide routine COVID-19: Protecting Employees.
healthcare that can be scaled to other sub-Saharan mental healthcare and social support to patients
For more information on our 2020 neuroscience
African countries. A core element in this approach is at district hospitals and community health centers
pharmaceutical innovation, see the section Innovation
to enable access to essential and innovative medicines via online platforms, including developing COVID-
in Practice. For more about our progress in addressing
for schizophrenia. As part of this continuing program, 19-specific mental health training and psychosocial
mental health, see our web page.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 44Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Access & Affordability
GRI J&J20-1, SASB HC-BP-240a.1, SASB HC-BP-240a.2
At Johnson & Johnson, the world’s largest healthcare 6 Johnson & Johnson products are included
company, we tirelessly strive to improve access to our in the WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal Products:
innovative medicines, vaccines, devices and diagnostics
in all countries, and especially for underserved and
vulnerable populations in resource-limited settings.
For almost one-third of the global population, medicines
Darunavir (ethanolate), Darunavir (ethanolate),
and vaccines are not an option.18
Tablet, Film-coated 75mg Tablet, Film-coated 150mg
Access and pricing: Through active collaboration, we
make our medicines readily accessible and affordable
for patients and health systems in accordance with
the specific reimbursement systems and laws of
different countries. Using tools such as equity-based
tiered pricing and collaborations with public health
organizations, we strive to help achieve broad and Darunavir (ethanolate), Etravirine,
timely access to our medicines in a way that is affordable
Tablet, Film-coated 600mg Tablet, Film-coated 100mg
locally. Our Global Public Health achievements over
several years have transformed access to treatments
for HIV, TB, NTDs and more (see the Global Public
Health Strategy section). As a signatory to the Business
for Social Responsibility (BSR) Guiding Principles on
Access to Healthcare, we collaborate broadly across
our industry to improve access for patients around the Etravirine, Mebendazole,
world.
Tablet 25mg Tablets, Chewable 500mg
Leading the global access ranking: The 2021 Access
to Medicine Index (ATMI) was released in January 2021
and we are proud to again rank as one of the top three
companies advancing access to medicines in low-
and middle-income countries around the world. Our
consistent, decade-long recognition of leadership in this
ATMI notes: “Johnson & Johnson has a total of 95 R&D projects
independent evaluation is the result of a longstanding,
featuring a relatively large priority R&D pipeline compared to
deliberate and focused strategy aimed at solving
its peers: 51 projects. Remarkably, Johnson & Johnson has the
some of the most difficult global health challenges
second largest pipeline and more than half of its R&D projects
and advancing equitable access to care for everyone,
target priority diseases.”
everywhere.
The ATMI evaluates the world’s 20 largest
pharmaceutical companies on their efforts to expand
access to medicines. Each new Index raises the bar for
the industry as the global health landscape changes and
expectations for companies evolve.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 45Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Pricing transparency in the United States: In early 2021, Throughout the world, we play an active role in dialogue
we published our fifth annual Janssen U.S. Transparency forums and policy initiatives that will move us closer to
Report, which highlights information related to our R&D achieving UHC. In recent years, we have participated
In 2020, we completed more than 800
investment, approach to pricing and patient support in programs in Brazil, Indonesia, Singapore and certain
engagements and launched projects to
programs. Updates from this year’s report include: African countries, including Kenya.
expand access in two countries. We also
• The average net price decline of Janssen medicines exceeded our commitment to SDG #3 to Patient engagement: Active collaboration with
in 2020 was 5.7%.* advance access to safe, essential and timely patients and caregivers helps us understand access
surgical care for 50 million people, actually needs and inform our development programs. This
• Janssen paid $29.4 billion in rebates, discounts
reaching more than 70 million people. involves partnering with patients and caregivers to
and fees to payers and others in the health system
help guide our decision-making throughout the product
in 2020.*
lifecycle and accelerate patient-inspired innovation.
• Nearly 1.2 million patients were helped with access, We aim to incorporate patients’ perspectives early in
affordability and treatment support through Janssen awareness about our efforts to strengthen health the development of medicines and medical devices,
CarePath during COVID-19.** systems and promote public policy that will enable include the patient’s voice in clinical trial protocols and
UHC. A key focus for Johnson & Johnson in recent collaborate with patients to develop tailored solutions
• 646,000 commercially insured patients reduced their
years has been in Kenya, where we maintain a that empower them in managing their disease.
out-of-pocket costs through Janssen CarePath during
longstanding relationship with the Kenya Ministry of
COVID-19.** In 2020, in Europe, we launched a website dedicated to
Health through which we continue to support multiple
inflammatory bowel disease for patients. This provides
programs, including the Community Health Units for
Intellectual property (IP) management: We believe a one-stop shop for patients and guides visitors through
Universal Health Coverage platform, funded by our
that flexible IP management is a key element to ensuring the patient journey. With this website, we aim to lower
Johnson & Johnson Foundation, that formally integrates
sustainable access to medicines, especially in low- the threshold for patients, relatives, caregivers and
Community Health Volunteers into the health system.
income and low- to middle-income countries. We work patient organizations to retrieve relevant, value-added
with international funders, local governments and non- content and services on this disease.
governmental organizations to develop approaches that
benefit patients in need while continuing to uphold the
value of IP in all parts of the world. For more information,
“
see our Position on Intellectual Property.
Universal Health Coverage (UHC): We are advocates The Community Health Units for Universal Health Coverage
for global UHC and are committed to helping turn
the promise of UHC into reality. We believe tailored platform is geared towards strengthening our community
strategies that align local needs, resources and market
health systems that will empower our communities to demand
conditions must be part of the solution. For more
information, see our Position on Universal Health
and participate in quality health systems, and ensure universal
Coverage. In 2020, we achieved our Health for
Humanity Goal to drive policy thought leadership access to healthcare, which is equitable, even to the most
and strategic engagements to expand healthcare
access and coverage in emerging markets. Several marginalised populations.
of our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals also address
and support progress toward UHC.
Dr. Maureen Kimani, Head, Division of Community Health, Ministry of Health, Kenya
In 2020, in support of Universal Health Coverage
Day, celebrated each year in December to advocate
for equitable health systems worldwide, we drove
* Figure according to Janssen Internal Financial Accounting.
** Data are an approximate number of patients supported by Janssen CarePath provided by the program administrator.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 46Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Similarly, in several markets, we enhanced our use through the PAH statistics group, informed the medical
of digital tools to reach out to patients and gain their affairs study design to expand the inclusion criteria to
perspectives, especially during 2020 when more people allow for broader PAH patient trial participation. We also
were engaging online because of COVID-19 restrictions. successfully piloted a psoriatic arthritis (PsA) Patient
In South Korea, we launched a Patient Engagement Engagement Day, uniting our employees with PsA PERC
Program that provides patient support capabilities members in a virtual dialogue to better understand the
through various channels including call center, text patient perspective. In 2020, our PERC communities
service and website. were especially useful in helping us understand the
patient experience during COVID-19 and potential ways
Patient feedback in clinical trials: Now in its fourth
in which we could support healthy communities.
year, our Patient Voice in Clinical Trials (PVCT) program
continues to incorporate patient perspectives into the Building the next generation of clinical trial design:
design and plans of our pharmaceutical clinical trials. To In our role as the Project Lead of the EU Patient-Centric
date, more than 2,500 patients and caregivers from 32 Clinical Trial Platforms, or EU-PEARL, a public-private
countries have provided feedback in the formal PVCT alliance to develop a common framework for “master
program. These patient insights have resulted in changes protocol” trials to accelerate the development and
to clinical trials in response to patient feedback, for approval of drugs, we continued our collaboration
example: and engagement. Master protocol trials are used
to simultaneously test the effectiveness of multiple
• Replacing biopsies with imaging;
medicines on multiple diverse diseases. OCMO is
• Measuring fatigue; currently collaborating to develop a Clinical Trial
Platform Framework that actively incorporates input
• Reversing the order of assessments;
from patient representatives for four specific diseases:
• Providing transportation; and major depressive disorder, tuberculosis, non-alcoholic
steatohepatitis and neurofibromatosis.
• Modifying inclusion or exclusion criteria and informed
consent forms. Optimizing clinical trials and patient follow-up:
Hugo is a novel digital platform that enables the capture
Patient Engagement Research Councils (PERC): and integration of patient real-world data (RWD) from
Janssen Scientific Affairs maintains PERCs covering electronic health records, empowering patients to
five key disease areas. PERCs are a group of contracted become active partners in health research. During
individuals living with a condition of interest that our 2020, OCMO continued assessments of the feasibility
scientists can work with to quickly gather patient and value of RWD capture via the Hugo platform and
insights over time, and thereby improve how we collaborated to publish joint findings in Nature Digital
research, design studies and generate information. In Medicine, highlighting the potential of the platform to
2020, we added the fifth PERC, covering pulmonary optimize clinical trials by facilitating long-term patient
arterial hypertension (PAH), which met to understand follow-up.
attitudes and perceptions toward technology and its use
in managing PAH patient health. The insights gathered
during the PERC engagement, especially in relation
to wearable technology, coupled with data provided
2020 Health for Humanity Report 47Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Strengthening Health
“
Systems
There is an urgent need to take on the inequities rooted in systemic racism
GRI 201-1, 203-1, 203-2, J&J20-11, SASB HC-BP-240a.1 that threaten health in communities of color across the United States.
At Johnson & Johnson, we contribute to advancing That’s why Johnson & Johnson is focusing its efforts and committing $100
health and well-being in the communities in which we
live and work. Our Global Community Impact (GCI) million to address racial and social injustice as the critical public health
organization, through funding from the nonprofit issue that it is. As the largest and most broadly based healthcare company
Johnson & Johnson Foundation and other functional
in the world, we are uniquely positioned to convene private, public and
divisions and operating companies across the three
Johnson & Johnson business segments, drives community organizations in pursuit of this shared aspiration and work
programming for our community giving, social impact
together to make a meaningful impact through science, business, public
and other philanthropic initiatives around the world.
For more information, see our Position on Strengthening health, and philanthropy.
Health Systems and Position on Community Impact.
In 2020, we made significant progress toward our Alex Gorsky, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Johnson & Johnson
UN SDG Commitment across our community impact
work. Our new Health for Humanity 2025 Goals include
a specific commitment to support nurses and other
Race to Health Equity: In 2020, we announced Our In 2020, we engaged to create more equitable health
frontline health workers.
Race to Health Equity platform, backed by $100 million systems through several collaborations. We partnered
in commitments and collaborations over the next five with Penn Medicine’s Center for Community Health
years to invest in and promote health equity solutions Workers to scale up community health worker
2025 Goals for Black people and other communities of color in the programs in communities of color; and with National
United States. Society has been significantly impacted Medical Fellowships to introduce new scholarships and
Support Frontline by systemic racism, the COVID-19 pandemic and the mentoring for students entering the medical, scientific
economic decline throughout 2020, which have all and health fields. We invested in diverse entrepreneurs
Health Workers
spotlighted healthcare inequities. whose solutions address healthcare through Johnson &
Johnson Impact Ventures (JJIV), an impact investment
By 2030, in its efforts to Our commitment prioritizes three key areas:
initiative founded in 2019 within the Johnson &
strengthen health systems
• Healthier Communities – investing in programs that Johnson Foundation. JJIV invests in mission-driven
globally, the Johnson &
help provide equitable healthcare for underserved social enterprises that offer solutions for low-income
Johnson Center for Health
communities; populations. In particular, we believe that impact should
Worker Innovation will support
be built into the business model and we typically engage
and champion at least one • Enduring Alliances – forging partnerships and
once the business model has some early traction and has
million nurses, midwives and alliances that combat racial and social health
proven market viability.
community health workers determinants; and
with skills, tools and growth We also leveraged our innovation platforms to support
• Diverse & Inclusive Corporate Culture – ensuring
opportunities. health equity. For example, in the face of increasing
a diverse and inclusive workforce.
maternal mortality rates, JLABS launched the Maternal
Health QuickFire Challenge, with a goal to spark new
For more information, see Our Race to Health Equity
For full details of this Goal and KPI, technologies that will improve pregnancy, birth, and
web page.
see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals. postpartum care outcomes for women, making birth
safer in the United States.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 48Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Four challenge winners are advancing technology, Meeting the needs of nurses: We collaborated with the Supporting African American physicians: In 2020,
surgical instrumentation or training methodologies that American Organization for Nursing Leadership on a new we entered into a joint initiative with the Medical
improve mothers’ health literacy, access to services, or learning program for nurses on LinkedIn and conducted a Society Consortium on Climate & Health and the
clinical outcomes. study with Montana State University, examining COVID- National Medical Association (NMA), the largest and
19’s effect on the U.S. nursing workforce to help identify oldest national organization representing the interests
Several Consumer Health brand initiatives supported
new needs. In addition, we supported a new study led of African American physicians, to help educate and
Our Race to Health Equity in 2020 around the world.
by WHO and other organizations that documents the recruit climate advocates within NMA to protect their
LISTERINE and JOHNSON'S Baby joined the UN
potential impact of midwives in preventing and reducing communities from the disproportionate health impacts of
Foundation’s “Unite for Health” program, bringing
maternal and newborn mortality and stillbirths. climate change. Through this partnership, we created the
partners together to demand greater cooperation
first fellowship program for physicians of color focused
and equity in health. In Brazil, STAYFREE partnered A call to action to support frontline health workers:
on climate and health equity.
with NGO Plan International to engage consumers in We call on all stakeholders to advance policies and
choosing a social project in areas that can help other programs that support frontline health workers and
girls to progress in life: education, entrepreneurship and ensure the global health workforce is adequately
women’s health. In France, our teams partnered with resourced to care for future generations. In 2020, we
Secours Populaire Français to donate VANIA napkins published our Frontline Health Workers Policy Position
and NETT tampons to women unable to access sanitary that advocates for policies and programs including
products. fair pay, ongoing professional development, work-life
balance, safety and security, and meaningful diversity
Additional progress in strengthening health systems in
in leadership. Our advocacy for frontline health workers
2020 includes:
focuses on five key areas:
Investing in frontline health workers: Our daily lives and
• Training and education;
global economies are intricately tied to the strength of
our health systems, and in turn resilient health systems • Leadership and management;
depend on a trained, supported and empowered
• Well-being and resilience;
frontline health workforce. In 2020, continuing our
long track record in this area, Johnson & Johnson • Connection and integration; and
announced a $250 million commitment to support
• Respect and recognition.
frontline health workers to help close the global health Healthcare professionals at a community health clinic in
worker gap and make health for all a reality. To that end, Jacksonville, Fla.
Impact investment to support health worker
our Center for Health Worker Innovation is working
innovation: In 2020, JJIV’s global investment portfolio
with partners around the globe to develop a portfolio of
grew to include a total of 12 exciting enterprises in the
programs in regions with the highest community health
Americas, Europe, East Africa and Southeast Asia,
burdens and health worker gaps, aiming to support one In this section, we share our progress in 2020
covering a broad range of health innovation including:
million frontline health workers (nurses, midwives and in the following areas:
education, municipal monitoring of public health,
community health workers) and reach 100 million people
diagnostics, healthcare models, financing and access to Our Giving & Partnerships
by 2030.
clean water.
Disaster Preparedness & Relief
2020 Health for Humanity Report 49Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Our Giving & Partnerships Product donations and financial support: In the United States, we also support
independent initiatives by donating medicines and funding to the Johnson & Johnson
GRI 413-1
Patient Assistance Foundation, Inc. (JJPAF), an independent, nonprofit organization
At Johnson & Johnson, inspired by Our Credo, we use our scale and resources for committed to helping eligible patients without insurance coverage receive prescription
good, contributing to many causes around the world to help advance health and products donated by Johnson & Johnson operating companies.
improve people’s lives through targeted initiatives providing local support, engaging
employees in our communities, supporting them in cases of emergencies and donating
products for a range of needs.
In 2020, we donated $1.9 billion in products
Our giving is funded by the Johnson & Johnson Foundation, a registered charitable
organization that reflects the commitment of the Johnson & Johnson Family of and financial support to JJPAF, enabling the
Companies to advancing better health for all. Funded solely by the Johnson & Johnson
Family of Companies, the Foundation currently operates worldwide as Johnson & Foundation to provide medicines at no cost
Johnson Foundation US (founded 1953) and Johnson & Johnson Foundation Scotland
(founded 2007). These independent entities support both global and in-country to approximately 95,000 patients.*
partnerships and initiatives, opportunities for employee engagement, and disaster
response activities managed by the Global Community Impact team at Johnson &
* See The 2020 Janssen U.S. Transparency Report.
Johnson, including the Center for Health Worker Innovation. See our Position on
Community Impact.
Signature partnerships: We also maintain several global partnerships and platforms
that advance healthcare and the quality of life for patients, consumers and Our Giving
communities. In 2020, we continued to engage across our range of partnerships, in
many cases, intensifying our support to help combat the challenges of COVID-19. (See 2020 2019 2018
also our section United in Defeating COVID-19). These partnerships include:
Total products and cash contributed globally (millions) $2,567‡ $1,806+ $1,612
• CARINGCROWD: A crowdfunding platform for global public health.
Products contributed globally (millions) $2,043‡ $1,383+ $1,299
• Save the Children: A longstanding partnership, supporting a range of programs such
Cash contributed globally (millions) $524‡ $423+ $313
as newborn survival, support for refugees, response to humanitarian crises and joint
advocacy.
‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants.
• UNICEF: A 30-year partnership to strengthen health systems in 20 countries and + See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants in 2019 Health for Humanity Report.
territories.
• Johnson & Johnson One Young World Program: A partnership since 2013 to provide
young leaders in healthcare with opportunities to contribute to solving health issues.
• Global Citizen: A partnership since 2016 to address public health challenges through
this social action platform.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 50Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Disaster Preparedness & Relief
We work with trusted partners including Americares, Heart to Heart International,
Mercy Ships and Direct Relief on the front lines of care to help communities by
coordinating product donations, and through programs that help communities recover,
rebuild and become resilient. In the immediate aftermath of any major disaster, our
response includes providing an array of our Pharmaceutical, Medical Devices and
Consumer Health products, as well as monetary donations and support to help people
and communities recover mentally and physically. Our approach is to stay closely
connected with our partners and colleagues to assess what needs may arise in the
long term and determine how we can support them. See our Position on Disaster Relief.
In 2020, much of our emergency and relief effort was focused on supporting
communities through the COVID-19 pandemic. See our section United in Defeating
COVID-19. However, we also supported communities struck by disaster, including:
• Earthquakes in Puerto Rico: Southwestern Puerto Rico was struck by a series of
over 2,000 earthquakes in late 2019 and early 2020, devastating communities and
demolishing homes and buildings, forcing roughly 7,500 people to look for other
kinds of shelter, including cars and tents.
• Explosion in Lebanon: In the aftermath of the devastating blast in Beirut in August, Direct Relief supplies are loaded onto a plane for transport to Oregon on September 19, 2020.
we donated $500,000 for relief efforts, and partnered extensively in the region with (Lara Cooper/Direct Relief)
local NGOs including the Lebanese Red Cross, Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF),
UNICEF, Save the Children, and the International Rescue Committee to provide
hygiene kits and help support the affected communities. We also contributed to the
establishment of free mental health walk-in clinics and a 24/7 hotline. $0.57 million
• Hurricanes Eta and Iota in Latin America: We partnered with colleagues and relief
organizations such as the Red Cross in Latin America to offer cash support for local allocated in support for immediate, mid- and long-term response,
communities affected by damage caused by Hurricanes Eta and Iota in Nicaragua, as well as readiness, to natural disasters around the world.
Honduras, Panama and Colombia. We also shipped thousands of Johnson & Johnson
hygiene kits to Honduras.
$1.86 million
• Hurricanes in North America: In the aftermath of Hurricane Laura that hit Louisiana,
we partnered with several organizations to distribute Johnson & Johnson’s One
worth of Johnson & Johnson product provided to communities
Child One Blanket kits and thousands of hygiene kits and Medical Mission Packs.
impacted by natural disasters around the world.
Employees volunteered to provide storage containers, tarps, water and other
supplies, and assisted in clean-up efforts. We continued these activities in response
to Hurricanes Delta and Zeta that followed the path of Laura within months, causing
further disruption and damage.
• Forest fires in North America: Following the deadly wildfires that raged in
California, Colorado, Oregon and Washington, we partnered with Direct Relief
to support affected communities by distributing hygiene products and protective
equipment.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 51Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Responsible
Business
Practices
At Johnson & Johnson, we aim to create an open and honest
environment where we can achieve our best work both compliantly
and with integrity. That’s what we mean by responsible conduct,
and we strive to ensure it’s reflected in every decision and
interaction of every employee throughout every day at work.
There’s no compromising when it comes to ethical and responsible
practices. We expect all our employees to help us sustain the
trust earned over the course of more than 130 years of business
operations. In doing so, we are empowered to advance Our
Purpose of blending heart, science and ingenuity to profoundly
change the trajectory of human health.
We apply this solid foundation of ethical and values-based conduct
to every area of our business practices, including how we govern
our organization; engage and inspire a diverse, skilled workforce;
apply the highest standards of ethics in our research; assure the
safety of our products for our patients and consumers; act as
stewards of the environment and maintain a global supply network
that supports our mission.
In this section, we share our progress in 2020 in the following areas:
Ethics & Values
Our People
Product Quality & Safety
Environmental Health
Responsible Supply Base
Starting in March 2020, some of our employees have adjusted to a flexible working environment.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 52Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Ethics & Values Compliance & Bioethics
GRI J&J20-3, J&J20-8
81,000 employees and
GRI 102-17, 205-1, 205-2, 206, 406-1, 417, 419, J&J20-6
Our Code of Business Conduct (CBC) and Health
Our responsibilities to patients, consumers, healthcare Care Compliance (HCC) policies list comprehensive 96% of sales and marketing
professionals, employees, communities and shareholders ethical standards for decisions and actions in every
employees completed HCC
are embedded in Our Credo. Our comprehensive market where we operate. Mandatory CBC training is
policies, procedures and trainings help our employees conducted every two years (results for the 2020 – 2021
training in 2020.
and contingent workers comply with applicable laws, CBC training cycle will be published in the 2021 Health
regulations and industry codes, as well as the Company’s for Humanity Report), and HCC training is conducted
internal standards and expectations for responsible each year. 100% of senior leaders
conduct. We use our biennial Our Credo Survey to
assess how our values come to life across the Enterprise. certified* the compliance
In 2020, the survey results showed an all-time high
across many dimensions, including 94% of respondents Johnson & Johnson was named in of their organizations with
who agreed that Johnson & Johnson “acts responsibly 2020 for the third consecutive year
the CBC.
to the communities in which we live and work and to the CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate
the world community as well.” For more information Political Disclosure and Accountability
* Certifiers include senior leaders at VP2 level and above, selected
about the 2020 Our Credo Survey, see the Employee with trendsetter status, indicating model
Managing Directors and General Managers based on country or
Engagement section. corporate governance best practices. business segment risk profile, and executives of recently acquired
companies.
In this section, we share our progress in 2020 In our policies, we comprehensively address anti- Management processes leaning on updated
in the following areas: corruption and anti-bribery, following the U.S. Foreign risk segmentation to drive a risk-based TPI Due
Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act 2010, and Diligence process and background checks, red flag
Compliance & Bioethics
other applicable local anti-bribery and anti-corruption management, monitoring, and risk mitigation. All
Corporate Governance laws and regulations. See our Positions on Ethics and employees are directed to utilize these standards when
Compliance and Anti-Corruption. Similarly, we value selecting and managing TPIs and other intermediaries.
Information Security & Data Privacy
transparency as a key component of building trust with
• Supporting distributor compliance: In collaboration
Human Rights all those engaged with our business and aim to comply
with the Advanced Medical Technology Association
with multiple regulatory reporting requirements in
(AdvaMed) and member industry partners, the
different jurisdictions around the world. Beyond meeting
AdvaMed Distributor Capability Working Group
our regulatory reporting requirements, we also publish
completed the development of a Global Compliance
a wide range of voluntary disclosures. See our Position
Distributor Toolkit. This publicly available Toolkit offers
on Transparency.
access to compliance guidance, training and other
Aspects of compliance and transparency we advanced resources to help third-party distributors formalize
in 2020 include: and strengthen their compliance program to meet the
expectations and standards for doing business in the
• Pricing transparency in the United States: In early
medical devices and diagnostics industry.
2021, we published our fifth annual Janssen U.S.
Transparency Report. See the Access & Affordability
section for highlights.
• Third Party Intermediary (TPI) compliance:
We continued to enhance end-to-end TPI Risk
2020 Health for Humanity Report 53Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
We continued to adhere to strict bioethics principles and practices in 2020: Inquiries and Complaints as Filed with Our Credo Integrity Line
by Category*
• To address the complex ethical questions arising in the field of biological research,
science and medicine, our Enterprise Johnson & Johnson Bioethics Committee
(JJBC), sponsored by OCMO, serves as an advisory body to our worldwide teams METRIC 2020 2019 2018
on bioethical issues, advocating adherence to bioethical principles, providing an Human Resources-related 51%‡ 60% 58%
expert forum for teams to obtain guidance on bioethical issues and championing
Financial-related 14%‡ 13% 11%
our commitment to bioethical decision-making across the Enterprise. The JJBC
is guided by the fundamental principles of bioethics, including beneficence, Business integrity-related 12%‡ 6% 6%
non-maleficence, autonomy and justice and our Ethical Code for the Conduct
of Research and Development. See also our Position on Bioethics. Other 11%‡ 8% 10%
• As part of our COVID-19 response, OCMO convened a working group of internal General information questions 10%‡ 11% 13%
and external experts to develop an ethical framework to guide the allocation of
Product quality and patient safety-related 2%‡ 2% 2%
donated supplies of PPE globally. The working group also established guidance
on ethically balancing a drug’s current approved use and its potential usefulness in
‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants.
fighting COVID-19 in the absence of peer-reviewed data from randomized clinical
* Changes to Our Credo Integrity Line complaint categories were made in December 2020 as a part of a broader project to
trials. See the United in Defeating COVID-19 section. enhance the overall user experience of and accessibility to Johnson & Johnson’s anonymous reporting mechanism. As such,
certain inquiries and complaints received in December 2020 under newly created or updated categories are excluded. These
• Since 2014, we have been working with the Yale University Open Data Access exclusions comprise less than 0.49% of total inquiries and complaints made in 2020. These changes will be included in next
(YODA) Project to enable a consistent approach for assessing external research year’s 2021 Health for Humanity Report.
proposals requesting the use of clinical trial data generated by Johnson & Johnson
companies. As of 2020, 206 research proposals have been reviewed and 41 articles
Compliance-Related Investigations and Responsible Marketing Indicators
published using data shared through the YODA Project, enabling researchers to
build on existing findings to accelerate research that leads to improvements in
METRIC 2020 2019 2018
public health.
Number of compliance-related allegations investigated 559‡ 738 707
• We continued to uphold the ethical treatment of animals used in laboratory
through Triage Committee
settings to advance patient safety and well-being. Johnson & Johnson companies
have policies and guidelines in place to assure the ethical and humane treatment Percentage of compliance-related allegations investigated through Triage Committee, by category
of the animals and promote the use of non-animal alternatives whenever feasible. Healthcare compliance 41%‡ 40% 46%
We support and participate in efforts to obtain regulatory acceptance of alternative
testing methods. See our Humane Care and Use of Animals Policy. Financial 51%‡ 50% 40%
Other 8%‡ 10% 14%
Number of warning letters or untitled letters issued 0 0 Not
Since 2015, we have collaborated with New York University (NYU) by OPDP or APLB in the U.S.* reported
School of Medicine to support Janssen decision making for
investigational medicine requests, also known as “compassionate ‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants.
use,” or “pre-approval access.” The Compassionate Use Advisory * OPDP: Office of Prescription Drug Promotion and APLB: Advertising and Promotional Labeling Branch of the FDA Center for
Biologics Evaluation and Research.
Committee (CompAC), comprised of ethicists, physicians and patient
representatives independently selected by NYU, provides guidance to
Janssen on pre-approval access plans and individual requests received
at Janssen. CompAC affirms Johnson & Johnson’s commitment to
ensuring a transparent, ethical and objective approach to reviewing
compassionate use requests. See our Position on Pre-Approval Access
and Compassionate Use.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 54Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Corporate Governance
website, including our Principles of Corporate
GRI 102-18, 102-22, 102-23, 102-24, 102-25, 102-26, 102-33 Governance, governance structures, Board Charters,
Our Board of Directors oversees our Company in organizational documents and all SEC filings. See also Our Board of Directors in 2020
our Position on Corporate Governance.
alignment with Our Credo values, enabling us to put (end-of-year)
the patients we serve first and create value for society Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) matters
while maintaining a thriving business. Our governance are regular topics on the agenda of our Board of
structure, policies and processes are designed to serve Directors. The Science, Technology & Sustainability 93%
the needs of our business, our shareholders and other Committee reviews annual progress against our Health
stakeholders, and to promote a culture of accountability for Humanity strategy and goals, initiatives being independent
across the Enterprise. Our Board of Directors remains advanced by the Enterprise Governance Council, and
accessible to all stakeholders and can be contacted our overall sustainability efforts. Other Committees of
35.7%‡
via several channels. the Board oversee specific ESG risks and opportunities.
For further information, see the section on Sustainability
We are a signatory to the Commonsense Corporate women
Governance. Our Enterprise Risk Management
Governance Principles 2.0 and are committed to
Framework provides a systematic process for our
using these standards to inform Johnson & Johnson’s
management teams and employees to identify, assess 21.4%‡
corporate governance practices. The Commonsense
and manage business risks, and for our Board to oversee
Principles 2.0 aspire to promote a constructive dialogue
risk management. ethnically/racially diverse
on good corporate governance for the benefit of millions
of Americans who work for and invest in America’s We aim for a diverse membership of our Board of
public companies. Directors in order to benefit from different backgrounds, ‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants.
expertise and perspectives, and to serve the Board in
We maintain a full suite of information and resources
understanding and addressing the needs of our global
relating to corporate governance on our corporate
patient and consumer base.
In 2020, we introduced initiatives to strengthen our
corporate governance:
“
• Our Policy on Outside Board Memberships was
updated to reflect Johnson & Johnson’s current
ESG disclosure plays an essential role in presenting to our shareholders operations and the complexities applicable to our
businesses. The new policy clarifies the definition of
and all stakeholders how Johnson & Johnson operates as a responsible
Board memberships and the approvals required for
and accountable corporate citizen. It is important to have a strong financial senior leaders in the Company to accept external
Board positions and under which conditions.
balance sheet and to disclose it in financial statements, but we are also
• In order to further align the long-term financial
committed to demonstrating how we are living Our Purpose. The Board
interests of Johnson & Johnson executive officers with
of Johnson & Johnson supports sound ESG practices, and we believe that those of shareholders, the Board increased the number
of shares executive officers must own. The Company
continued transparency on these matters is critical to building trust with
ownership guidelines now require our CEO to own a
our stakeholders and those we serve. number of shares equal to 12 times his base salary and
each of our other executive officers to own sufficient
shares to equal six times their base salaries.
Anne M. Mulcahy, Lead Director, Johnson & Johnson
2020 Health for Humanity Report 55Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
• At our 2020 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, the Board recommended,
Corporate Governance Indicators
and shareholders approved, an amendment to Johnson & Johnson’s Restated
Certificate of Incorporation to allow directors to be removed without cause.
METRIC 2020 2019 2018
This initiative reflected the Board’s recognition of the emerging practice to
permit removal of directors without cause by shareholders as a measure to
Number of Directors on the Board 14 14 11
increase the accountability of the Company’s directors to shareholders.
• In response to a shareholder proposal presented at our 2020 Annual Meeting
of Shareholders, as well as to valuable shareholder feedback requesting updates Number of independent Directors on the Board 13 13 10
regarding key corporate governance developments, the Board prepared and
published a report on the governance measures implemented to monitor and Percentage of independent Directors
93% 93% 91%
manage financial and reputational risks, specifically opioids-related risks. The on the Board
report can be viewed here.
Independent Lead Director Yes Yes Yes
Independent Audit Committee Yes Yes Yes
In 2020, Dr. Nadja West,
retired U.S. Army Lieutenant Independent Compensation & Benefits
Yes Yes Yes
Committee
General and former U.S.
Independent Nominating & Corporate
Army Surgeon General, was Yes Yes Yes
Governance Committee
appointed to our Board of
Independent Regulatory Compliance Committee Yes Yes Yes
Directors, bringing decades
of strategic and operational Independent Science, Technology & Sustainability
Yes Yes Yes
Committee
experience in national and
Number of regular and special meetings held by
international executive 10 9 9
the Board of Directors
leadership, strategic planning
and healthcare management.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 56Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Information Security & Data Privacy
GRI 418
Johnson & Johnson is strongly committed to protecting the privacy of those
who entrust us with their personal information. In addition to our Code of Business
Conduct and all the laws that apply to our operating companies’ handling of
personal information, we also maintain global privacy policies to which all our
businesses worldwide must adhere. Our policies reflect our commitment to fair and
transparent information practices. Similarly, through our Information Security and Risk
Management organization, we safeguard the Company’s networks, systems, products
and information against evolving cyber threats to prevent unintended or unauthorized
access to both business and personal information.
In 2020, we increased efforts to ensure compliance with the growing number of
new privacy and cybersecurity laws around the globe which all have security or data
protection requirements, including the California Consumer Privacy Act, the Brazilian
LGPD (Lei Geral de Proteção de Dados Pessoais) compliance law, as well as other
new regulations in China, South Korea and Thailand. Generally, these regulations
require new processes and systems to help ensure consumers and patients have
greater knowledge of their privacy rights, and the ability to exercise such rights
with respect to access, correction of and deletion of their data. We are updating
websites controlled by Johnson & Johnson and establishing new or enhanced
processes to support consumer, patient and other data subject requests to address
these requirements. Furthermore, to enhance our cybersecurity capabilities, we
deployed a new Medical Device Product Cybersecurity Quality Standard, increasing
Our Information Security & Risk Management organization is committed to helping the business
confidence that cybersecurity controls are in place to ensure the availability of
understand and effectively manage information risk and ensure data protection.
the devices and the confidentiality and integrity of their associated data. We also
expanded our cybersecurity controls to address the expanding and evolving global
cybersecurity threats.
Externally, we partnered with industry groups in different regions—both to help
ensure new privacy regulations are effective in addressing the needs of patients,
consumers and businesses in managing the use of personal information, and to share
cybersecurity threat intelligence and best practices. These partnerships are critical for
research, innovation and building patient and consumer engagement, particularly in
emerging areas of health technology.
Also, as part of our global COVID-19 response, we worked intensively across the
Enterprise to assist in the rapid transitioning to virtual business models and remote
working in ways that protect Company information and respect the privacy rights
of individuals, including privacy support and guidance for on-site COVID-19 testing
and our vaccine development. Additionally, we launched a separate cybersecurity
program dedicated to the security of Janssen vaccine development, manufacturing
and distribution.
See also our Positions on Information Security and Data Privacy.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 57Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Human Rights and other stakeholders. For more information on our Minimum notice periods, the management of
COVID-19 response, please see the United in Defeating reorganizations and layoffs and the policies associated
GRI 102-41, 402-1, 406, 407, 408, 409, 412-2
COVID-19 section. with such actions vary depending on the location,
Our commitment, policies and governance: Johnson & nature, size and scale of the action and applicable law.
Our own operations: Our Position on Employment and
Johnson is committed to respecting human rights Local operating leaders endeavor to communicate
Labor Rights articulates our expectations for labor and
of individuals throughout our value chain. We have significant plans of operational changes to employees
employment practices at our sites, including preventing
established policies, programs and a governance and their representatives, where they are present, in a
forced labor and child labor, and non-discrimination,
structure to fulfill our human rights responsibilities. timely and practical manner in advance of actions being
among other matters. Our operating companies are
taken. The Company maintains responsible approaches
required to respect each employee’s right to make an
to redundancies and organizational changes. Many of
informed decision, free of coercion, about membership
our collective bargaining agreements contain negotiated
in associations and/or labor unions. Employees have
See the policies and positions available on provisions covering severance or separation pay and
the right to organize or join associations, and bargain
our website for more information: benefits. Where there is no legal minimum notice period,
collectively, if they so choose. The Company and its
• Code of Business Conduct Johnson & Johnson operating companies typically
operating companies are required to bargain in good
provide 30 days’ notice.
• Position on Human Rights faith with these associations.
• Human Trafficking Policy Our approach to talent management puts a strong
In 2020, we developed a risk-based approach to
focus on diversity and inclusion principles. We
• Position on Employment and Labor Rights assessing compliance with our internal standards
promote diversity and equal opportunity in recruiting,
• Position on the Conduct of Clinical Trials related to the human rights of our employees by initiating
development and promotion as well as all other aspects
a project to conduct human rights audits at our sites.
• Responsibility Standards for Suppliers of employee careers. To read more, please see our
We have partnered with a third party who will conduct
• California Transparency in Supply Chains Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Policy. As outlined in
audits in conformance with the Ethical Trading Initiative
Act and United Kingdom Modern Slavery our Positions on Providing a Safe and Harassment-
(ETI) Base Code, an internationally recognized set of
Act Statement Free Workplace and on Providing a Discrimination-
labor standards based on the International Labour
Free Workplace, we do not tolerate discrimination,
• Position on Human Right to Water Organization (ILO) Conventions, the UN Guiding
harassment or bullying, and provide various training
• Position on Conflict Minerals Principles, and local labor regulatory requirements. Our
courses on this policy, including within our Code of
audit risk screening criteria are based on the Supplier
Business Conduct scenario-based training, which is
Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) Members Ethical Trade
assigned every two years to all employees and to select
Audit (SMETA) best practice guidance and measurement
contingent workers.
criteria. We tailored risk screening criteria to include
Ongoing due diligence approach: In 2020, Johnson &
additional considerations relevant to Johnson & Johnson. To reinforce our commitment to fair pay as defined by
Johnson continued our engagement with Shift, a leading
The new audit program will be piloted within one of our Our Credo and the Position on Employee Compensation
center of expertise on the United Nations (UN) Guiding
three business segments in 2021. and Benefits, in 2020 we completed a living wage
Principles on Business and Human Rights, to refine and
assessment ensuring pay is not only equitable and
further define our salient human rights issues, socialize
market competitive, but also more than sufficient
those issues internally and develop a framework for
to provide the means for our employees and their
identifying and managing human rights issues in our
families to attain a sustainable standard of living. Living
supply base. We also continued our participation in 23%
wage rates were provided by the global non-profit
Shift’s Business Learning Program, to ensure awareness
organization, Business for Social Responsibility (BSR).
of emerging human rights issues and due diligence
The scope of the analysis included the 77 countries
approaches and be part of a cross-industry network of of employees worldwide are covered
where our 136,000 employees are located, and a very
companies working to advance implementation of the by collective bargaining agreements.
small number of minor pay adjustments were made.
UN Guiding Principles. Throughout 2020, we addressed,
We have integrated the living wage assessment into our
from a human rights standpoint, the impact of the
standard processes and plan to conduct this analysis on
COVID-19 pandemic on our employees, communities
a regular basis going forward.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 58Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Our suppliers: The Johnson & Johnson Responsibility policies or the law, including potential human rights Acquisitions: We firmly believe that identifying and
Standards for Suppliers outline our expectations violations. We communicate the Our Credo Integrity understanding environmental, safety and employee
of supplier business conduct. The Standards were Line access broadly, and the visibility of this access and issues, including potential human rights concerns, are
developed to align with the UN Guiding Principles on the mechanism’s functionality is in scope for enterprise- critical components of our acquisition and other business
Business and Human Rights and the Consumer Goods wide audit procedures. Concerns raised through the Our development activities. We conduct thorough due
Forum Social Resolution on Forced Labour and Priority Credo Integrity Line are reported at an enterprise level. diligence investigations prior to acquiring businesses
Industry Principles. We continue to strengthen our More information on the Our Credo Integrity Line is and apply a commensurately higher level of scrutiny
due diligence approach to human rights issues in the available in our Compliance & Bioethics section. to businesses with operations or suppliers in countries
supply base. In 2020, we further enhanced our supplier where there are traditionally higher risks of compliance
In addition to the Our Credo Integrity Line, our
selection process with a deeper focus on human rights violations and/or human rights abuses. We continue
employees can report potential violations to Human
evaluation criteria. Through our participation in the to be mindful of these concerns as we transition newly
Resources either locally or through our Global Services
Consumer Goods Forum, in September 2020 Johnson & acquired businesses into the Johnson & Johnson
team. Alternatively, they can report potential violations
Johnson signed onto a letter to the UN, calling for Family of Companies and are prepared to escalate
to management. To read more, see our Position on
measures to protect seafarers’ well-being and human and appropriately remediate any issues uncovered.
Resolving Employee Grievances.
rights in line with the UN Guiding Principles and in
support of ILO’s Decent Work Agenda, while supporting
the global economy, unblocking sea transportation
routes and ensuring the supply of critical goods. To read
more about our supplier due diligence approach, see our
Position on Responsible Supply Base.
Training and communication: Our Human Rights
in the Supply Base training covering all aspects of
our Johnson & Johnson Position on Human Rights is
mandatory for all Procurement employees and is also
assigned to other relevant functions as needed. In
addition, in late 2020 we launched a foundational human
rights training course available to all employees. This
foundational course, which has been translated into 26
languages, educates employees about our commitment
to human rights, the impact our operations can have
on human rights and the responsibilities we have as
Johnson & Johnson employees.
Grievance mechanisms: We are committed to
providing effective resolution where we have caused
or contributed to adverse human rights impacts.
Where we find impacts directly linked to our business
relationships, we will use our influence to work with
our suppliers or business partners to prevent, mitigate
and address adverse impacts on human rights. The
Johnson & Johnson Our Credo Integrity Line—a
grievance mechanism available to all employees,
suppliers and other business partners—offers a secure
mechanism for anonymous reporting, where permitted,
of suspected concerns or potential violations of our
2020 Health for Humanity Report 59Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Our People to remote working—Our Credo is visible in millions of
daily actions from our thousands of colleagues. For more
“
about how we protected employees through 2020, see
GRI 102-8
the section COVID-19: Protecting Employees.
Our core set of leadership
The culture of Johnson & Johnson, inspired and guided
Here at one of the world’s largest corporations,
by Our Credo for over 75 years, continues to energize
we have a considerable impact on the lives of many, behaviors that define
more than 136,000 individuals around the world to
including the employees of the Johnson & Johnson
advance a shared purpose: to blend heart, science and
Family of Companies. Our Credo values underpin expectations for all
ingenuity to profoundly change the trajectory of health
our approach to leadership, management and human
for humanity. employees underscores
resources strategy and policy. They guide us to create
a safe and caring workplace that embraces diversity,
Global Workforce by Region the importance of
nurtures equity and inclusion, focuses on performance
while providing the tools to succeed, ignites creativity,
inspiring those around
Latin America fosters collaboration and partnership, and recognizes
20,320‡
and rewards contribution. By creating an organization you to contribute ideas
in which people thrive, we create a corporation that
North America
46,900‡ helps society thrive. that challenge thinking,
For more information, see our policies and positions and to have the courage
relating to Employment and Labor Practices.
Asia Pacific
27,939‡ to test and learn, while
demonstrating agility to
In this section, we share our progress in 2020
drive and adapt to change.
in the following areas:
EMEA And in 2020, we witnessed
Employee Attraction & Development
41,201‡
‡ See PwC's Report of Independent Accountants. Employee Engagement these behaviors in practice
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion every day at every level
Every one of us at Johnson & Johnson plays a role in
bringing these values to life through what we say and Employee Health, Safety & Wellness
across our businesses and
do, the stakeholders we connect with and the people
we serve. COVID-19 has tested us all; but in 2020, heart,
around the world.
science and ingenuity came together in incredible ways.
From the delivery of our COVID-19 vaccine, to making
it available on a not-for-profit basis for emergency
Peter Fasolo, Executive Vice President,
pandemic use, to our Onsite Superheroes who kept our
Chief Human Resources Officer,
plants running so that we could continue to make needed
Johnson & Johnson
products available to patients and consumers, to our
thousands of employees who volunteered in their local
communities, to every single individual who adjusted
2020 Health for Humanity Report 60Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Employee Attraction Promoting employee development: The opportunity skills and competencies in line with career and personal
to develop personally and professionally is a core growth objectives. For details of these programs, see
& Development
aspiration both for employees who have newly joined our Position on Employee Development. In 2020, in
GRI 401-2, 401-3, 404-2, 404-3, SASB HC-BP-330a.1, our organization and for those who have been with the context of restrictions on on-site presence, we
HC-BP-330a.2 Johnson & Johnson for years. We maintain a suite pivoted our entire portfolio of accelerated leadership
of leadership and other professional development development programs to a virtual format.
In 2020, we continued to expand our organization
programs that engage employees in improving their
with hiring around the world to meet the demands of
our growing business, placing focus on diverse talent
that reflects the communities we serve.
Our suite of leadership
In 2020, we hired 13,594‡
and development programs
new colleagues across the
Enterprise, of whom 52.5%‡
AEO AEL
were women. Accelerate Executive Accelerate Enterprise
Orientation (AEO) Leadership (AEL)
‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants.
ASCEND RISE IDP TAP
Accelerated Accelerated Program
International Development Talent Acceleration
Development Program for Racially and Ethnically
Attracting employees back to a meaningful career: for Women (ASCEND) Diverse Talent (RISE) Program (IDP) Process (TAP)
In 2020, we expanded our paid four-month returnship
program, Re-Ignite, to India, where the focus is on
professionals who are ready to get back to their STEM
careers after a break, such as a break to manage family Early Career
care responsibilities. After we reviewed more than
100 applicants, six talented individuals joined the
Re-Ignite program in India after successfully
completing a detailed evaluation process, including
career discussions to understand how Re-Ignite can
help them achieve their professional aspirations. The • Hundreds of high potential colleagues • We launched Leading People at J&J, a new
program includes onboarding, mentoring, technical participated in eight cohorts of our ASCEND, six-month development program for first-time
training and alumni guidance during the returnship TAP and RISE leadership programs. line leaders with participation from employees
period and offers a nurturing, inclusive environment • Thousands of leaders completed First Line across all functions and business segments.
for returning employees to rebuild a meaningful career. Leader and Leaders Developing Leaders • Hundreds of individuals continued to benefit
For more information, see our Re-Ignite videos. programs across more than 140 individual through our Executive Committee Sponsorship
courses. program.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 61Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Alongside leadership development, we provide and their families to attain a sustainable standard of
opportunities for employees to acquire new skills living. For more details, see the section on Human Rights.
across a broad range of professional functions and In addition to salary and wages, our benefits packages
skill areas. For example, in 2020: aim to improve the quality of life for employees by
• Tens of thousands of employees in more than 70 providing practical support for family, health and well-
countries completed programs offered through our being, education and long-term financial management
LinkedIn Learning platform, accessible in different needs. We continuously review and update the range
languages. of benefits we offer in line with new needs as they arise,
employee feedback and changes in market practices.
• We continued promoting the development of
See also our Position on Employee Compensation
capabilities in data science and digital literacy through
and Benefits.
our Digital Learning Academy, including a three-day
Women in Data Science Summit. Hear the story of
Sarah Asio, Data Science Lead, Johnson & Johnson
Medical Devices.
Employee compensation and benefits: Our In 2020,
compensation framework includes a set of core
principles that guide all compensation decisions, 93%
recognizing the important contributions of our
employees to deliver our mission in ways that align with
our values. We are committed to pay equity, including
of employees completed
gender and ethnic/racial group pay equity. From time
to time, we analyze our pay across functions and levels, year-end performance
and strive to eliminate unconscious bias or other barriers
to full pay equity across the Enterprise. In 2020, we reviews.
completed a living wage assessment to ensure pay is not Many Johnson & Johnson employees have been able to adjust
only equitable and market competitive, but also more to a flexible working arrangement that allows for growth and
than sufficient to provide the means for our employees development via remote digital tools.
3,206 44.6%‡
1,178
new leaders participated in our Enterprise Leader of Managers and above moved across functions,
Development Program in 2020, bringing the total country or business segment lines, building diversity employees in the U.S. and Puerto Rico participated
number of leaders trained to date to 11,202. of experiences.* in the tuition reimbursement program.
‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants.
* Career progression movement includes upward promotion, lateral transfer and excludes employees in the research and development organizations.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 62Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Year-End Performance Reviews Completed by Job Category U.S. Employee Benefits
2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Vice President 83% 76% 72% U.S. employees who took parental leave, by gender
Manager & Director 93% 90% 90% Women 45% 47% 44%
Professional 93% 90% 89% Men 55% 53% 56%
Other* 88% 82% 86% U.S. employees who returned to work after parental leave ended, by gender
Overall for all employees 93% 89% 89% Women 97% 98% 98%
Men 97% 100% 100%
* Category includes employees who don’t have a merit plan as part of their compensation package.
Spend on Employee Learning and Development by Category
(millions)
2020 2019 2018
Other professional skills $56 $52 $47
General leadership training & assessments $12 $17 $22
E-learning $4 $5 $7
Executive coaching $5 $10 $6
Other $31 $14 $8
Total $108 $98 $90
Employee Turnover
2020 2019 2018
Overall voluntary turnover 5%‡ 8%+ 8%
Voluntary turnover of high performers 3%‡ 4%+ 4%
‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants.
+ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants in 2019 Health for Humanity Report.
A Johnson & Johnson employee spends time outside with his family.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 63Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Employee Engagement Following an analysis of the detailed results, which were Our WiSTEM2D initiative (Women in Science,
communicated to all employees, we developed plans to Technology, Engineering, Mathematics, Manufacturing
GRI 413-1
address the main areas of opportunity identified by our and Design) has been active since 2015, and each
Across our Enterprise, we encourage employees to employees’ feedback, both at the Enterprise level and year since 2017, we have selected female STEM2D
take an active role in advancing Our Purpose to change within individual teams. tenure-track professors who are making key STEM2D
the trajectory of health for all. We provide platforms, discoveries and shaping the future of tomorrow, as part
In alternate years, we issue a global Our Voice Survey,
tools and resources to help everyone contribute at of our ongoing WiSTEM2D Scholars Award Program.
which serves as an indicator of employee satisfaction
their best. Similarly, we foster an inclusive culture that Each awardee receives a grant of $150,000 and three
and measures important aspects of our culture such as
embraces creativity combined with care for others, our years of mentorship. In 2020, six female scholars were
employee engagement, inclusion, development, health
communities and our planet. selected from more than 540 highly qualified nominees
and wellness, collaboration, execution, innovation, and
from around the world. Their work is an inspiration to
One of the platforms we use to track employee compliance and risk.
us all and represents pivotal global innovations across
sentiment and feeling of being connected to our
Inspiring recognition: In 2019, we introduced our diverse fields of interest for better healthcare outcomes.
colleagues and our values is our biennial Our Credo
employee recognition program, Inspire, which reaches
Survey which, in 2020, was administered in 78 countries
at least 90% of our global workforce in more than 70
and made available in 36 languages. In a year of
countries. During 2020, the program continued to
unprecedented change, the survey resulted in an all-time Innovative research areas of Johnson &
live up to its name by inspiring hundreds of thousands
high for both participation rate and favorability. Johnson’s WiSTEM2D 2020 Scholars
of recognition moments that celebrated meaningful
contributions and purpose-led behaviors.
• Science: how pre-planet chemistry and
Women in STEM: In our new Health for Humanity 2025 physics affect a future planet's ability to
2020 Our Credo Survey high-level results Goals, we further encourage our employees to play an support life
• 93% participation rate, a 3% increase active role in engaging with our nonprofit partners to • Technology: machine learning to address
compared to 2018 (among all eligible expose more girls to science, technology, engineering, critical clinical problems in brain tumors
mathematics, manufacturing and design (STEM2D)
employees). • Engineering: microbiology that can help
activities, in the knowledge that advancing gender
treat inflammatory bowel disease
• 89% favorability rate, which reflects how equality in technical professions will not only strengthen
we are fulfilling Our Credo commitments society, it will also build a stronger pipeline of diverse • Manufacturing: soft, foldable robots that
to employees, a 4% increase compared talent in these under-resourced professions. can be used in healthcare procedures
to 2018 on like-to-like questions. • Mathematics: statistics, causal-inference
and agent-based modeling to make clinical
• 94% agreed with the statement: Ensures
analyses more robust and free of bias
our first responsibility is to the patients,
doctors and nurses, mothers and fathers, 2025 Goals • Design: hospital lighting design to help
and all others who use our products and improve health outcomes and energy
services. Women in STEM2D efficiency
• 87% agreed with the statement: Provides
By 2025, engage two million girls
an inclusive work environment where each
in STEM2D activities.
employee is considered as an individual. Meet our 2020 WiSTEM2D Scholars Awardees in this
video. Read more about our WiSTEM2D program here.
• 94% agreed with the statement:
For full details of this Goal and KPI,
Acts responsibly to the communities
see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
in which we live and work and the
world community as well.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 64Engaging employees for healthy communities: We
inspire our employees to be a part of creating healthy
communities through our Talent for Good Strategy,
led by our Global Community Impact organization. Talent for Good program overview
Talent for Good offers a wide range of engagement
opportunities for employees around the globe, inviting
each to take part at their preferred level of participation
in a focus area of their interest. Programs include
blood drives, donations to help support frontline health Capacity builder
workers and skill-based volunteering opportunities via
Programs that connect Inspiring minds
short-term programs or secondments with nonprofit our employees with
partner organizations. For more information see our Support a cause P mr eo ng tr oa rm ins g t ah na dt o cff oe ar c hing p ene to ep rl pe r efr no em u rN iaG l Os and
P Do us ri it nio gn 2 o 0n 2 0C , o mm om stu on fi t oy u I rm Tp aa lec nt. t for Good programs Programs that enable all P p b& r a u p o r iltga dnr r eat hn rm ese ahsr l i ts w p hh s yii t p th chs oas mt tr ha mete ulpg n i itc to i e s o o retp ahp ceo hrr s t t u d hn eei ivt rei e fl uos l p lt o p a oh n te d el np t ial o t ohr reg gia ar n nsi ikz zia allt tsi io o tn nos a s li t n cre an n pe g ae t cd h it eo ynf
converted to virtual platforms to enable participation. employees to participate and careers
without being away from
For example: the office or requiring travel
• Bridge to Employment continued to serve students
through college preparation provided by university
partners and thousands of hours of mentoring by
Johnson & Johnson colleagues. Pathways to Success Level of Engagement
provided virtual internships for college seniors.
• Hundreds of employees took part in skills-based pro
Strategic Talent for Good programs:
bono programs serving 81 NGOs across Talent for
Good platforms. • Bridge to Employment: engages employees • Talent for Healthy Communities: connects
as mentors to help young people improve employees with local community partners in
• Thousands of Johnson & Johnson employee
performance and learn about different career a remote pro bono program to address critical
volunteers and nonprofit partners engaged more
opportunities. The extension progam, Pathways capacity-building needs.
than 300,000 girls with STEM2D education through
to Success, provides internships at Johnson &
our WiSTEM2D Youth Pillar. Activities included a • Vital Voices Global Partnership: engages
Johnson.
live Facebook series featuring Johnson & Johnson colleagues in helping scale and accelerate
volunteers supporting STEM2D activities at home, • WiSTEM2D: engages Johnson & Johnson the impact of women leaders at the forefront
distribution of educational kits and virtual summer employees globally to inspire young girls and of change and global progress.
camps. women to enter STEM2D fields. See the section • One Young World: convenes the brightest
Women in STEM.
• We launched the VV100 ScopeAthon program, to young talent working to accelerate social
continue to support women leaders at the forefront • Secondment programs: assigns employees impact around the world with support from
of change and global progress. The program pairs to NGO partners for secondments of up to six Johnson & Johnson employees who guide
Johnson & Johnson with VV100 leaders in four- months and senior leaders engaging for four to and mentor participants.
hour virtual consulting sessions to help address six months in strategic and advisory roles.
organizational challenges. • Global Pro Bono: pairs teams of employees Additionally, several signature partnerships
• Where virtual platforms were not possible, certain with NGO partners working on the front lines provide opportunities for employee engagement.
activities were temporarily postponed, for example, of health for capacity building over a four-week See the section Our Giving & Partnerships.
our One Young World program, which we expect to period (12-week virtually in 2020).
continue in 2021.
troffE/emiT
Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Service for good
Programs that are fully immersive experiences
(individual and/or team
participation) based on
mapping NGOs needs
with employees’ skills and competencies
Advocate for a cause
Local Volunteer Leaves
2020 Health for Humanity Report 65Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Engaging employees for a healthy planet: We Sustain, our environmental
sustainability employee engagement program, mobilizes passionate employees to
improve the environmental health of the places where we live, work and sell our
products. In 2020, 67 We Sustain teams across the globe engaged their colleagues
to protect the environment and human health through education, idea sharing and
community volunteerism in environmental programs. Additionally, during our annual
Environmental Month, we asked employees to take personal action to reduce their
carbon footprint (Pause on Carbon) through reducing food waste, eating more plants
and being energy smart. Through this online campaign, employees recorded tens of
thousands of personal actions, which signals strong awareness and motivation by
employees to be active stewards of the planet and connect to our environmental
health strategy.
Employees and their families gathered at the Johnson & Johnson Suzhou site’s cleanup campaign
to support environmental sustainability.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 66Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion In 2020, we published our second You Belong: Diversity,
Equity & Inclusion Impact Review, which shares stories
GRI 405-1
of how we have advanced DEI across all the different 24,300
Our mission is to make diversity, equity and inclusion dimensions of our business and in line with our strategic
(DEI) how we work every day. We know that bringing goals. As part of our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals,
employees engaged in
together our diverse backgrounds, cultures and we have committed to a new set of ambitious targets to
perspectives drives innovation to solve today’s complex further improve our internal resilience and to contribute
Employee Resource Groups
health problems. We continue to challenge ourselves on to greater social equity.
what it means to prioritize DEI in every business decision Complementing and reinforcing our DEI strategy and (ERGs)
we make, and we leverage our DEI strategy, policies and
initiatives that we have been pursuing for years, Our
programs to provide our workforce with the support and
opportunities they need to help create a healthier, more Race to Health Equity initiative, launched in 2020, is 260
a bold aspiration to help eradicate racial and social
equitable world. For more information, see our Diversity,
injustice as a public health threat by eliminating health
Equity & Inclusion Policy. U.S. ERG Chapters
inequities. Internally, we are prioritizing areas that will
enable us to take meaningful, deliberate and thoughtful
actions, including: accelerating inclusive leadership 183
behaviors and cultural competencies; transforming
human resources processes to optimally access,
non-U.S. ERG Chapters
hire, develop and deploy diverse individuals; and
strengthening our pipeline of diverse talent by partnering
with Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs)
and other diverse associations. Our Race to Health
Equity platform will help us evolve our capabilities,
sharpen our strategic focus and amplify our contribution
to a more just society.
“ No one company can build a more equitable
2025 Goals
and just society alone. We need to engage
even more deeply in our communities
Women in Ethnic/Racial Black/African
and partner with representative groups at
national, regional and local levels so that Management Diversity in Americans in
we can leverage our size and scale to drive
Management Management
systemic change. Together, we can advance By 2025, achieve 50%
diversity, equity and inclusion to change the of women in management
By 2025, achieve 35% By 2025, achieve 50%
trajectory of health for all.” positions globally.
ethnic/racial diversity in growth of our Black and
Wanda Bryant Hope, Chief Diversity, Equity management positions African American employees
& Inclusion Officer, Johnson & Johnson within the U.S. in management positions in
the U.S.
For full details of these Goals and KPIs, see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 67Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Gender Diversity of Global Employees1,2 Gender Diversity by Region1
2020 2019 2018 METRIC 2020 2019 2018
Women 48.1%‡ 47.8%+ 47.1% Asia Pacific
Men 51.9% 52.2% 53.0% Women 46.2%‡ 46.0%+ 45.6%
Men 53.8% 54.0% 54.4%
Gender Diversity by Job Category1
Europe, Middle East & Africa
2020 2019 2018 Women 49.8%‡ 49.7%+ 48.5%
Vice Presidents Men 50.2% 50.3% 51.5%
Women 35.3%‡ 34.2%+ 35.0% Latin America
Men 64.7% 65.8% 65.0% Women 51.1%‡ 50.2%+ 49.4%
Men 48.9% 49.8% 50.7%
Managers and Directors
North America4
Women 46.8%‡ 46.2%+ 45.6%
Women 46.3%‡ 46.1%+ 45.6%
Men 53.2% 53.8 % 54.4%
Men 53.6% 53.9% 54.4%
Professionals
Women 49.8%‡ 49.5%+ 48.5%
Gender Diversity by Employment Type1
Men 50.2% 50.5% 51.5%
2020 2019 2018
Gender Diversity in Management and Executive Positions3
Full-time employees
Women 47.1%‡ 46.7%+ 46.0%
2020 2019 2018
Men 52.9% 53.3 % 54.0%
Women in management positions 46.4%‡ 45.8%+ 45.3%
Part-time employees
Women in executive positions 14.3%‡ 14.3%+ 14.3%
Women 82.9%‡ 82.6%+ 83.6%
Men 17.1% 17.4% 16.4%
‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants.
+ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants in 2019 Health for Humanity Report.
1 As of October 2020, new categories were added to allow employees to actively decline self-identification or remain unidentified. Where the value for 'Declined to answer' rounded to zero, we excluded from the reported table.
2 “Employee” is defined as an individual working full-time or part-time, excluding fixed term employees, interns and co-op employees. Employee data may not include full population from more recently acquired companies and individuals on long-term disability are
excluded. Contingent workers, contractors and subcontractors are also excluded.
3 Management positions are defined as paygrade 30 and above; executives are defined as employees reporting directly to the Chairman and CEO.
4 Values have been rounded to the nearest tenth. Due to rounding, the numbers presented do not add up precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 68Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Age Diversity by Job Category1 Ethnic/Racial Diversity in the U.S. by Job Category
METRIC 2020 2019 2018 METRIC 2020 2019 2018
Vice Presidents Vice Presidents4
Under 30 0%‡ 0%+ 0% White 72.7% 75.4% 74.9%
30 – 50 44.2%‡ 46.3%+ 46.6% Asian 11.2% 10.4% 10.4%
50+ 55.8%‡ 53.7%+ 53.4% Black/African American 6.6% 6.7% 6.6%
Managers and Directors4 Hispanic/Latino 8.4% 6.9% 7.7%
Under 30 1.3%‡ 1.3%+ 1.4% Other 0.9% 0.6% 0.4%
30 – 50 72.4%‡ 73.2%+ 73.9% Declined to answer1 0.1%
50+ 26.4%‡ 25.6%+ 24.7% Managers and Directors
Professionals4 White 67.7% 70.2% 70.7%
Under 30 20.7%‡ 21.4%+ 21.4% Asian 17.2%‡ 16.6%+ 16.5%
30 – 50 61.7%‡ 61.7%+ 61.7% Black / African American 5.4%‡ 5.0%+ 4.9%
50+ 17.5%‡ 16.9%+ 17.0% Hispanic/Latino 7.3%‡ 7.0%+ 6.9%
Other 1.3%‡ 1.2%+ 1.1%
Declined to answer1 1.1%‡
Professionals4
White 66.4% 68.0% 68.4%
Asian 12.9%‡ 12.0%+ 12.0%
Black / African American 7.5%‡ 7.6%+ 7.3%
Hispanic/Latino 10.2%‡ 10.4%+ 10.7%
Other 2.2%‡ 2.0%+ 1.7%
Declined to answer1 0.9%‡
‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants.
+ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants in 2019 Health for Humanity Report.
1 As of October 2020, new categories were added to allow employees to actively decline self-identification or remain unidentified. Where the value for 'Declined to answer' rounded to zero, we excluded from the reported table.
4 Values have been rounded to the nearest tenth. Due to rounding, the numbers presented do not add up precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 69Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Diversity in Board Composition
METRIC 2020 2019 2018
Women 35.7%‡ 28.6%+ 27.0%
Ethnic/racial diversity 21.4%‡ 21.4%+ 27.0%
New Employee Hires
METRIC 2020 2019 2018
Total Number of New Hires 13,594‡ 21,948+ Not reported
By Region
Asia Pacific 28.4%‡ 28.9%+ 30.1%
Europe, Middle East & Africa 22.7%‡ 27.0%+ 27.4%
Latin America 22.4%‡ 16.5%+ 16.9%
North America 26.4%‡ 27.6%+ 25.7%
By Gender
Women 52.5%‡ 51.4%+ 51.6%
Men 47.5%‡ 48.6% 48.4%
Declined to answer 0%‡
By Age 4
Under 30 46.5%‡ 52.7%+ 47.1%
30 – 50 48.5%‡ 42.8%+ 48.0%
50+ 4.9%‡ 4.5%+ 4.9%
As additional information, we have included our most recently filed U.S. Federal Employer Information Report EEO-1.
Because federal reporting requirements group employees in the EEO-1 differently than the Company does in its
Health for Humanity Report (which aligns with the Company’s organizational structure and employee level or pay
grade), the numbers are not directly comparable. While we are making the EEO-1 Report available, we believe the
data as presented in our Health for Humanity Report is the most meaningful measure of our diversity progress.
‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants.
+ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants in 2019 Health for Humanity Report.
4 Values have been rounded to the nearest tenth. Due to rounding, the numbers presented do not add up precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 70Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Employee Health, of protecting, supporting and advancing health and Health and wellness support online: We launched a new
well-being for all employees. Through this new goal, digital health and well-being tool to support employees
Safety & Wellness
we will reinforce our commitment to protecting to stay physically energized, emotionally connected and
GRI 403-9, 403-10 employee health, prioritizing employee mental health mentally focused, especially when facing heightened
and sustaining our focus on energy management to help stress levels during this difficult year. The online program
At Johnson & Johnson, our investment in employee
build employee resiliency. includes a confidential health risk assessment that
health, well-being and safety is built on our conviction
helps employees understand how lifestyle choices,
that advancing health for humanity starts with advancing 2020 was atypical in terms of our operations and
health status and behavior influence their current and
the health of our employees. With the right awareness, the addition of new safety protocols to protect our
future well-being and learn how to address modifiable
focus, practices and tools, we aim to ensure that all workforce from the risks of COVID-19 (see the section
health risks. In addition, we introduced a weekly health
our employees around the world, as well as temporary COVID-19: Protecting our Employees). However, as the
newsletter connecting employees to health and well-
contractors and visitors to our sites, can work safely. pandemic persisted, we maintained our uncompromising
being resources available from Johnson & Johnson.
Beyond occupational health and safety, we aspire to focus on health and safety and ended the year with
have the healthiest workforce and have continuously strong results across all our safety metrics. Global Activity Challenge: Our annual Global Activity
expanded health and well-being programs throughout Challenge engaged more than 28,000 employees
We continued our safety programs and activities
Johnson & Johnson globally, incorporating new thinking from 70 countries for 21 days of movement, resulting
during 2020 even given the challenging circumstances
and technologies to help employees achieve their in the largest increase in physical activity (63%) for any
throughout the year. Where relevant, we conducted
personal mind and body health goals. See our Positions Johnson & Johnson activity challenge to date.
training and team activities virtually. Examples of our
on Environmental Health and Safety Management and
activities during the year include:
Employee Health and Well-Being.
Safety Month: We leveraged our annual Safety Month
Following the successful achievement of our health and
to introduce the Six Habits for Safety Success program.
well-being goals in 2020 (see Health for Humanity 2020
Safety teams at our global sites introduced the Habits
Goals Scorecard), this year, as part of our Health for
with virtual engagement for all those working remotely
Humanity 2025 Goals, we have an innovative, first-of-its-
and appropriate activities for employees onsite, in line
kind commitment for Johnson & Johnson to ensure our
with social distancing protocols. Tens of thousands of
managers across the organization realize the imperative
employees participated in Safety Month activations and
made commitments to safety actions.
2025 Goals
We operate 119 on-site healthcare clinics
Healthiest
in 35 countries across all sectors
Workforce Score of our business.
By 2025, x%* of Johnson & In 2020, we maintained core clinical services
Johnson leaders and their for our on-site employees and expanded to
managers will be accountable to provide remote telehealth support as we
achieve ≥ x%* annual Healthiest managed the ongoing health risks to our
Workforce Score. workforce during the COVID-19 pandemic.
For full details of this Goal and KPI,
see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
* Baseline to be established in 2021.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 71Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
World Mental Health Day: In 2020, we placed emphasis on increasing our
understanding of mental health conditions, breaking down stigma and empowering
us to care for our mental health and well-being and that of those around us. Through a
series of online interactions across the globe in our 24-hour Global Virtual Mindfulness
Relay, Johnson & Johnson set a Guinness World Record with nearly 13,000 employees
from 79 countries taking a moment to unplug, increase self-awareness and learn new
strategies to help manage stress.
Energy management: Our enterprise-wide ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE program
helps employees manage their energy capacity so that they can be their best at work
and in life. We have consistently expanded the use of this program in line with our
Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and introduced virtual courses to continue to deliver
this important training during the pandemic.
ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE Progress
102,000 employees completed ENERGY FOR
PERFORMANCE training since 2016, with 9,924
employees completing training in 2020.
129,000 and 126,000 employees were provided A Johnson & Johnson employee in the U.S. and his sons kept healthy by exercising together while he
worked from home.
with access to and fully implemented healthy eating
and healthy movement cultures, respectively.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 72Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Employee Safety,* Global Employee Safety* by Region
METRIC 2020 2019 2018 METRIC 2020 2019 2018
Lost Workday Case rate** 0.05‡ 0.07+ 0.08 Lost Workday Case rate**
Total Recordable Injury Rate 0.24‡ 0.31+ 0.41 Asia Pacific 0.02‡ 0.06+ 0.05
Serious Injury and Illness Case rate 0.02‡ 0.04+ 0.05 Europe, Middle East & Africa 0.04‡ 0.05+ 0.05
Number of fatalities 0‡ 0+ 2 Latin America 0.08‡ 0.06+ 0.11
Crashes Per Million Miles (CPMM) rate*** 4.86 5.54 5.81 North America 0.07‡ 0.08+ 0.10
Injuries Per Million Miles (IPMM) rate*** 0.05 0.06 0.07 Total Recordable Injury Rate
Asia Pacific 0.08‡ 0.12+ 0.17
Europe, Middle East & Africa 0.21‡ 0.27+ 0.29
Latin America 0.18‡ 0.25+ 0.43
North America 0.35‡ 0.42+ 0.57
Serious Injury and Illness Case rate
Asia Pacific 0.02‡ 0.04+ 0.01
Europe, Middle East & Africa 0.01‡ 0.03+ 0.02
Latin America 0.01‡ 0.02+ 0.01
North America 0.04‡ 0.06+ 0.09
‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants.
+ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants in our 2019 Health for Humanity Report.
* LWDC rate, TRIR, SIIC rate, and fatalities are calculated for Johnson & Johnson employees and contingent workers. Contingent workers (i.e. workers supplied by third-party agencies that are the worker’s employer of record) are intended to supplement or
temporarily replace existing workforce and are directly supervised by a Johnson & Johnson employee.
** “Lost days” are calendar days counted beginning the day after an incident has taken place.
*** CPMM and IPMM rates are based on Safe Fleet data. Rate calculation methodology uses both actual and estimated data on miles driven. We collect Safe Fleet data on employees who drive Company-owned or -leased, and personally owned vehicles for
Company business. Employees in the latter category are those who: 1) drive for Company business as a “regular part “of their job, and 2) receive a car allowance to purchase their own vehicle, and/or are reimbursed for vehicle expenses such as fuel, maintenance,
insurance and other miscellaneous charges associated with vehicle upkeep.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 73Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Product Quality Quality Management • Real-time controls: We are raising the visibility of data
through highly targeted dashboarding and signaling,
GRI 416-2, J&J20-9, SASB: HC-BP-250a.3; HC-BP-250a.5;
accompanied by decision assist methods that present
& Safety HC-MS-250a.1; HC-MS-250a.4
data clearly and support real-time, data-driven
The Johnson & Johnson Quality Policies and Standards decisions in our product development process. We
As the world’s largest and most broadly based across our Family of Companies cover the lifecycle of have developed tools that offer significant reductions
healthcare company, Johnson & Johnson reaches our products from R&D to the consumer and patient in cycle time and lower levels of error.
patients and consumers across the world with its experience. They provide a framework and common
• Natural Language Processing: We are currently using
medicines, consumer health products and medical foundation of quality expectations and help ensure
Natural Language Processing methods to unlock
devices. Their safety when using our products is a a reliable supply of high-quality products across all
knowledge from quality text data with new methods
critical priority for Johnson & Johnson: we insist our business segments. See our Position on Quality
that compare the similarity of new quality records to
on quality and safety at every stage of product and Compliance and our Johnson & Johnson Quality
past data. This allows rapid identification of similar
development, manufacturing, supply chain and Management Framework.
historic occurrences with a proven track record of
commercialization to ensure our products are as
In 2020, we continued to assess and improve our internal solutions.
effective and safe as possible.
quality policies and standards to ensure we are keeping
Our effective management of consumer and patient pace with the changing regulatory demands for our Shaping the future regulatory model for software-
safety includes: diverse portfolio of products. Employing thousands based medical devices: We continue to partner with
of individuals across the Enterprise, our Quality and the FDA in the Digital Health Software Precertification
• Adherence to strict quality standards;
Compliance functions are increasingly adopting digital (Pre-Cert) Pilot Program. The FDA’s Pre-Cert Program
• Ethically led, science-driven decision-making innovations to drive effectiveness and efficiency within is envisioned to accelerate speed to U.S. market for
in all matters relating to medical safety; and our quality processes. In our clinical quality programs, Software as a Medical Device solution. The intention
we are expanding data science partnerships with is to grant streamlined product regulatory reviews for
• Protecting those who use our products from
external experts and providers, as well as industry peers, digital health technology companies that demonstrate
counterfeit and illicit trade.
to accelerate insights and embed predictive signaling. and maintain a culture of quality and organizational
We have deployed Robotic Process Automation excellence. The focus of the pilot phase of the program
capabilities that deliver process efficiencies and increase is to build and test the pre-cert model with select pilot
the accuracy of trial monitoring and data management participants within the industry, including Johnson &
In this section, we share our progress in 2020
activities. Johnson. In 2020, we shared with the FDA our
in the following areas:
perspective on key measures to evaluate and monitor
Areas of progress in 2020 include initial deployments of:
Quality Management organizations and to conduct excellence appraisals of
Digital acceleration: With the rise of digital, artificial organizations. In addition, we tested and suggested
Medical Safety
intelligence (AI), and Big Data we are advancing our improvements for the FDA’s proposed tools and
Counterfeiting & Illicit Trade digital strategy in different ways: enablers, which would drive components of the pre-cert
model. For 2021, our focus will continue to be on testing
• AI for complaints: Our team developed AI and
the pre-cert model and helping the FDA develop policy
machine learning methods that read narratives
related to device classification. Upon completion, we
from customer complaints and turn the customer
believe the Pre-Cert Program will provide an innovative
feedback into insights. The algorithms can predict
regulatory pathway for organizations to submit their
categorization, allowing higher automation of the
products with ease and efficiency while meeting high
process and greater contextualization of information,
product quality and safety standards.
helping to share actionable insights.
• Intelligent Automation: We have expanded our
use of Intelligent Automation in our partnership
with our Regulatory Affairs organization that enables
us to evaluate Company data more rapidly, more
consistently and with improved accuracy.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 74Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Annual Quality Month: In October 2020, we activated
Product Quality Indicators
our annual quality month under the theme: “Quality
starts with me!” We embarked on a modified virtual
METRIC 2020 2019 2018
program to engage our global sites and employees in
reflection, celebration, and recommitment to quality
Number of regulatory inspections of Johnson & Johnson sites
through virtual workshops and interactive educational by worldwide health authorities 452‡ 521+ 619
sessions.
Percentage of regulatory inspections that resulted in zero observations 82%‡ 73%+ 78%
Number of FDA inspections of Johnson & Johnson sites 10‡ 17+ 24
Percentage of FDA inspections that resulted in zero observations 80%‡ 76%+ 75%
Average number of observations per FDA inspection 1.7‡ 0.6+ 0.6
Number of independent audits of Johnson & Johnson sites to ensure
165‡ 156+ 179
compliance with Johnson & Johnson Quality Policy & Standards
Number of independent audits of external manufacturing sites to ensure
230‡ 264+ 237
compliance with Johnson & Johnson Quality Policy & Standards
Number of FDA warning letters issued 0‡ 1+ 0
Product recall rate,* by business segment
Enabling clinical trial execution using digital tools:
Innovations within clinical trial execution grew rapidly in
Pharmaceutical 0%‡ 0.002% Not reported
response to the constraints of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Working together with R&D partners, we introduced Medical Devices 0.034%‡ 0.041% Not reported
new capabilities for digital quality monitoring of clinical
sites and created new means for conducting quality Consumer Health 0%‡ 0.091% Not reported
oversight of innovative methods of patient data capture
to enable home healthcare. We also rapidly expanded ‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants.
virtualization of audits, which aided in continued quality + See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants in 2019 Health for Humanity Report.
oversight during periods of reduced on-site interactions. * Product recall rate is defined as number of lots removed from market per total globally manufactured, based on field action removals
where it has been determined internally by a Quality Review Board, and aligned by Johnson & Johnson Enterprise Compliance, that there
See our United in Defeating COVID-19 section. is a reasonable probability that the product may cause temporary or medically reversible adverse health consequences and in certain cases
will cause serious adverse health consequences. Consumer Health over-the-counter (OTC) product removals are included.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 75Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Medical Safety Organizations we regularly collaborate with and/or support
GRI 416-1 to improve RWD and RWE methodologies and tools:
Patient and consumer well-being is a priority in our
decision-making and actions. The Office of the Chief
Medical Officer (OCMO) leads medical safety globally
at Johnson & Johnson, championing patient-centered,
evidence- and science-based decisions across our three
business segments. Our work is underpinned by a single
medical safety standard to which all our products are
held.
In addition to our standards, policies and processes,
our approach to medical safety is also informed by FDA EMA
RWD to enhance our understanding of the safety and
effectiveness of our medicines and medical devices
outside clinical trial settings. In partnership with leading
organizations, OCMO is working to advance novel
methodologies and tools for real-world data analysis to
further inform clinical and regulatory decision-making
and advance public health.
One of our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals reflects
the growing importance of RWE in improving health
outcomes.
2025 Goals
Healthcare
for Women
By 2025, publish insights into See our positions and policies relating to patient safety:
best-practice healthcare for
• Position on Patient Safety
women based on real-world data
of one million women. • Position on Consumer Safety and Care
• Position on Clinical Trial Data Transparency
For full details of this Goal and KPI,
• Position on the Conduct of Clinical Trials
see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
• Ethical Code for the Conduct of Research and Development
• Position on Human Pluripotent Stem Cell Research
2020 Health for Humanity Report 76Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Improving maternal health outcomes: In partnership Talc safety: We continue to address allegations that
with the Center for Maternal Health Equity at the JOHNSON’S Baby Powder can cause adverse health
Morehouse School of Medicine, OCMO convened the effects. We sympathize deeply with cancer patients
In September 2020, Johnson & Johnson Georgia Maternal Health Research for Action Steering and their families and appreciate that they are seeking
joined the WHO and the International Committee, a group of clinical and academic experts in answers. However, the science and the facts show
Alliance of Patients’ Organizations Black maternal health in Georgia, U.S.,19 which has one of that their illnesses were not caused by their use of our
(IAPO) to bring attention to patient and the highest maternal mortality and morbidity rates in the talcum-based products. Our website factsabouttalc.com
health worker safety through World United States. The Committee aims to provide guidance includes independent studies from leading universities,
Patient Safety Day, and to increase on an integrated suite of scalable programs to improve research from medical journals and third-party opinions
public awareness and engagement, maternal health outcomes for Black mothers. We are confirming that our talc is safe. Johnson & Johnson
enhance global understanding, and spur conducting ethnographic research to understand the remains steadfastly confident in the safety of talc-based
global action to promote patient safety. unique concerns and needs of Black mothers in Georgia JOHNSON’S Baby Powder. Decades of scientific studies
Our OCMO colleagues participated as during their pregnancy journey that will guide potential by medical experts around the world support the safety
keynote speakers and panelists in IAPO’s digital solutions to increase postpartum co-morbidity of our product. The facts are that JOHNSON’S Baby
annual Global Patients Congress. self-management and to promote early notification of Powder is safe, does not contain asbestos and does not
postpartum complications. increase the risk of cancer. In 2020, as a response to
declining demand for this product, we discontinued sales
Accelerating access to medicines for young patients:
in the United States and Canada.
Typically, there is a small and widely dispersed pediatric
In 2020, we further advanced medical safety for our patient population available for clinical trials, which
diverse patients and consumers in innovative and presents a challenge in terms of assessing efficacy
collaborative ways, including: and safety of medicines for children. Utilizing existing
databases to supplement pediatric clinical trial data
Leveraging artificial intelligence
can reduce drug development time by years. In 2020,
for pharmacovigilance:
OCMO championed the use of data extrapolation from
We are advancing a first-in-kind AI capability to
adult clinical trials to seek a pediatric indication for
streamline pharmacovigilance processes for faster
SIMPONI ARIA (golimumab) in pediatric patients with
handling of complaint cases. At the Medicines and
arthritis. The submission was approved by the FDA,
Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA)
leading to a pediatric indication for SIMPONI ARIA,
Symposium 2020, Johnson & Johnson was recognized
and accelerated access to this medicine to help children
for our Literature Assist Tool, noting we are one of
get the treatment they need faster.
the few companies to demonstrate a first-in-kind AI
capability in production and commending our unique Innovating to prevent accidental ingestions and
intelligent automation strategy that includes both medication errors in children: Child safety has
prescription and OTC products. The Literature Assist always been a cornerstone of our medical safety
Tool, developed by Janssen R&D, leverages artificial work. Thousands of children are rushed to emergency
neural networks and natural language processing departments every day due to accidental unsupervised
to review scientific literature and identify safety ingestions. In 2020, we worked with JLABS to introduce
cases, enabling faster complaint case processing the Pill Protect QuickFire Challenge: Designing for
with the capability to review hundreds of thousands Medication Safety with support from the Scientific
of literature abstracts and articles each year. This Education and Patient Advocacy in coordination with
technology reduces the burden of data entry from the CDC PROTECT Initiative. The best potential solution
the labor-intensive literature review process so that to prevent or reduce the accidental access by children
pharmacovigilance experts can focus on verifying data to medications in pill dispensers will be announced in
accuracy and ensuring the safety of drugs and products. 2021 and receive up to $100,000 in grant funding,
access to the global JLABS network and mentorship
from Johnson & Johnson experts.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 77Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Counterfeiting & Illicit Trade Illicit trade complaints are also incorporated as a partnerships resulted in an increase of suspect product
category of complaints into the Product Quality notifications and related seizures from the previous
GRI J&J20-4, SASB: HC-BP-260a.1; HC-MS-430a.2
Complaint/Adverse Event training that all employees year. This increases confidence that our patients and
Counterfeit, illegally diverted and tampered-with are required to take. In addition, we provide dedicated consumers will receive genuine Johnson & Johnson
healthcare products place people at risk of serious training modules for employees in certain functions products. We also continue to engage with seven
health problems—potentially even death—and to continue their education on anti-counterfeiting external trade groups, alliances, organizations and
undermine confidence in product quality, safety and and product protection best practices. Outside of the agencies—either in leadership positions or as a member
reliability, which, at Johnson & Johnson, is central to Company, we regularly train government officials to help of industry working groups—to help collaboratively
everything we do. Additionally, counterfeit healthcare them identify suspect versions of Johnson & Johnson combat trade in counterfeit healthcare products.
products negatively impact the economy of healthcare products. In 2020, we launched our Global Brand
Introducing a tool to assess counterfeit risk: During
by diverting income and tax revenues from those who Protection Customs Program for customs and border
2020, we deployed a new prioritization tool that analyzes
work to improve healthcare. Illicit trade adds a cost protection officials, which delivered global product
data from various sources to determine the brands at the
burden of monitoring and control for healthcare systems, protection training virtually via 37 sessions due to the
greatest risk for illicit trade. Our Segmentation Tool uses
and can negatively impact health outcomes. COVID-19 pandemic.
market and business intelligence and multiyear internal
We believe the illicit trade of healthcare products must In 2020, we deployed multi-faceted protection data to improve decision-making in the best interests of
be stemmed for the benefit of all, and we strongly capabilities to reduce the threat of counterfeiting, patient protection.
support stricter regulation in this area. For example, we theft, cyberattacks and other forms of illicit trade
Adding security measures: We introduced a
supported the passage of the H.R. 5663 Safeguarding for our COVID-19 vaccine, as described in the section
sophisticated security feature to the existing tamper-
Therapeutics Act, giving the FDA the authority to COVID-19: Advancing a Vaccine and Therapies. We
evident seal already in use at our pharmaceutical
destroy counterfeit medical devices and combination also continued the ongoing fight against counterfeit
packaging sites in Europe. The new seal was designed
products at ports of entry. The bill was enacted after healthcare products in several ways:
for use on critical pharmaceutical products in markets
being signed by the President on January 5, 2021.
Customs, government and other partnerships: at high risk for illicit trade. We also started using digital
Our mandatory biennial Code of Business Conduct We record our trademarks with customs and border authentication features across our product portfolios to
training for all employees includes a module on protection agencies to stop illicit trade at ports of enhance the ability to authenticate products when they
counterfeit products and illicit trade to help employees entry around the world. Our customs and government are in the market.
be proactive in protecting our patients and consumers.
Anti-counterfeiting best
practices training delivered
in 2020:
145
Johnson & Johnson employees
3,164
customs and border patrol
officials
2020 Health for Humanity Report 78Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Environmental Health Johnson & Johnson's latest climate goals build on a longstanding commitment to
environmental health, which includes more than two decades of public climate
commitments. Building on our strong legacy of climate action, in September 2020, we
GRI 307-1
announced Johnson & Johnson’s next generation of Health for Humanity climate goals:
At Johnson & Johnson, the world’s largest and most broadly based healthcare
company, we are deeply motivated to be active stewards of the environment and
contributors to sustainable development. We know that human health is inextricably
linked to the health of the planet, and the health of the planet depends on us, 2025 Goals
individually and collectively. See our Position on Human Health and the Environment.
Renewable Electricity
Environmental stewardship is grounded in Our Credo and is essential to delivering
on Our Purpose of profoundly changing the trajectory of health.
By 2025, source 100% of our electricity needs from
renewable sources.
“
Carbon Neutrality for
We must maintain in good order the property Our Operations
we are privileged to use, protecting the By 2030, achieve carbon neutrality for our operations,
going beyond our Science-Based Target to reduce absolute
environment and natural resources. Scope 1 and 2 emissions 60% from 2016 levels.
Scope 3 Emissions Reductions
Our Credo, Johnson & Johnson, 1943
By 2030, reduce absolute upstream value chain (Scope 3)
emissions 20% from 2016 levels.
For full details of these Goals and KPIs, see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
Our operational (Scope 1 & 2) emissions goal has been validated by
the Science-Based Targets initiative (SBTi) as being consistent with the
reductions required to keep global warming to 1.5°C and goes beyond
what the latest climate science deems necessary to meet the goals of the
Paris Climate Agreement. Our value chain (Scope 3) goal meets the SBTi’s
criteria for ambitious value chain goals, meaning it is in line with current
best practice.
Wind turbines at Johnson & Johnson's facility in Cork, Ireland.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 79Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Our EH&S Standards reflect industry best practices and
EH&S Governance Indicators
aim to ensure that all Johnson & Johnson entities around
the world are compliant with applicable environmental
METRIC 2020 2019 2018
laws and regulations, and that they maintain consistently
high-quality EH&S performance in line with our
Number of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 14001 (d) (e) 95‡ 100+ 112
goals and the multiple metrics that we track at every
facility. Our progress in environmental sustainability Percentage of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 14001 (d) (e) 96%‡ 97%+ 99%
encompasses our engagement with suppliers (see
section Responsible Supply Base) and includes a focus Percentage of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to OHSAS 18001
21%‡ 24%+ 32%
on: (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series) or ISO 45001 (d) (e)
• Advancing climate resilience; Number of environmental non-compliances (a) (b) 50‡ 61+ 44
• Managing our waste and water impacts; and
Fines paid for environmental non-compliances (b) (c) (thousands) $5.9‡ $41+ $2
• Improving product sustainability.
‡ See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants.
See also our Environmental Health and Safety Policy + See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants in 2019 Health for Humanity Report.
(a) Environmental non-compliances represent instances of non-compliance with environmental regulatory requirements or laws that were
and our suite of ESG policies and positions including
either (i) self-reported to authorities in the reporting year or (ii) identified by authorities and the non-compliance occurred in the reporting
those relating to environmental health. year. The authorities include regional, national, state/country/province, and local/city regulatory agencies.
(b) Environmental non-compliances and fines paid exclude newly acquired sites (i.e., owned less than 2 years as of December 31, 2020).
(c) Fines paid for environmental non-compliances include those paid in the reporting year. It does not include fines assessed and/or under
negotiation that were not paid as of December 31, 2020.
In this section, we share our progress in 2020 (d) Certified to ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001 means the site has received an external certification that is valid as of December 31,
2020.
in the following areas:
(e) The denominator of total manufacturing and research & development (R&D) sites excludes small R&D and manufacturing sites
(defined as having less than 50 employees) and newly acquired sites (i.e., owned less than 3 years as of December 31, 2020).
Climate Resilience
Water & Waste Management
Product Sustainability
2020 Health for Humanity Report 80Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Climate Resilience
GRI 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 302-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 305-6, 305-7
We believe industry has an important role to play in responding to climate change
by implementing voluntary reductions of the greenhouse gases (GHGs) within their
control. We have made strong progress in transitioning to renewable electricity, Globally, our on-site clean/renewable energy
achieving over 50% globally in 2020 as we strive toward 100% over the next five years.
Additionally, we expect to make further investments in energy efficiency across our technology capacity in 2020 was 61.4 MW.
operations and are evaluating alternative fuel sources and fleet vehicle choices.
We have several renewable energy initiatives underway at Johnson & Johnson
facilities across the globe:
On-site Clean/Renewable Energy Capacity, by Type
Renewable Electricity Use Across Regions*
25%
Global: 54%‡ 3% 2%
1%
Europe: 82%‡
Solar PV
North America: 72%‡
Co-generation
Current Renewable Electricity Contracts
Wind
Geothermal
B Oe fflg shiu om re / W H io nll dand Campus H He yl ds rin og pb oo wrg er, Sweden S Hw ydis rs
o
C poa wm ep rus B Fuio em
l
ca es ls
ls
Irish Campus 32%
Amarillo, TX Wind
Wind 37%
Athens, GA Japan Mfg + R&D
Solar Hydropower
Juarez, Mexico
Wind
Philippines
Greek Campus Geothermal
Virtual Power Purchase Solar German Campus
Hydropower
Agreement Johnson & Johnson is a founding Johnson & Johnson supported
Direct Power Purchase member of the Renewable climate action as a signatory
Agreement Energy Buyers Alliance (REBA), of the America Is All In pledge,
Utility green tariff an association for large-scale launched in 2020 on the five-year
energy buyers working toward the anniversary of the Paris Climate
creation of a resilient, zero-carbon Agreement as a call to action
energy system across the United for the incoming Biden-Harris
States. Administration to support
national mobilization on climate
* Percentage of electricity used by Johnson & Johnson that is generated from renewable sources. Europe includes Belgium,
France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland. North America includes and recovery.
United States and Canada only.
‡ Metric has been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statement by ERM CVS.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 81Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
In 2020, we made progress in achieving energy closed-loop, geothermal system to provide heating and
efficiency and GHG emission reductions. Examples cooling for half of the campus, with the capacity to serve
include: the entire 45-acre campus in the future. The geothermal
CO Capital Relief Program
system replaces two large natural gas steam boilers, 2
Green electricity: In 2020, we signed a green tariff Overview (2005 – 2020)*
saves millions of gallons of water per year and reduces
electricity contract for our operations in the Philippines,
natural gas consumption and corresponding GHG
which went into effect in October 2020. Through this
emissions significantly. 280 projects approved
contract, our electricity supplier matches Johnson &
Johnson’s electricity consumption from the grid with Solar energy expansion: We installed a solar 241 projects completed
renewable electricity produced or purchased from photovoltaic power system capable of generating
$445 million total spent on completed
renewable sources within the same market. This follows 2,000 MWh per year at the São José dos Campos
projects
our signature of renewable Power Purchase Agreements Campus in Brazil. This is Johnson & Johnson's first
(PPAs) in 2019 for our operations in Belgium, Ireland, photovoltaic system in South America. At Janssen's $83 million annual energy cost savings
Mexico and the Netherlands, as well as green tariff facility in Xi’an, China, we completed a 1 MW carport
2,345 TJ annual energy savings
electricity contracts in Germany, Greece and Japan, plus ground mount solar installation where the solar
all of which took effect in 2019 or early 2020. panels also serve as a covered roof for parked employee 298,905 MT CO annual GHG
2
vehicles and include charging stations for electric emissions avoided
bicycles.
* Results from completed projects. Based on fuel and
Green building: We continue to pursue LEED
electricity reduction calculations. Avoidance of energy
For the third consecutive (Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design) consumption and GHG emissions calculated by compar-
year, Johnson & Johnson certification across our facilities. For example, in 2020, ing energy consumption before project implementation
and expected consumption after implementation using
was recognized with we received LEED Gold certification for our laboratory engineering estimates at the time the projects are
a CDP A List rating for building on our Beerse, Belgium campus, making it approved.
our leadership in climate the first LEED Gold-certified analytical laboratory
action. in Belgium. Additionally, we achieved LEED Gold
certification for two facilities in China, a manufacturing
site for medical devices in Suzhou and a state-of-the-art
pharmaceuticals plant in Xi’an. Environmental features
Capital expenditure for energy efficiency: Energy of these sites include local plants for landscaping,
efficiency programs at our most energy-intensive reserved parking spaces for low-emitting vehicles and
manufacturing and R&D sites are allocated up to dimmable lighting fixtures in meeting and training rooms
$40 million per year in capital relief through our to minimize energy consumption.
CO Capital Relief Program, for energy projects that
2
demonstrate potential CO savings and a financial
2
return of at least 15%.
6 Johnson & Johnson buildings were newly
Geothermal energy expansion: We continue to expand
LEED-certified in 2020, bringing the total
our use of geothermal energy to provide substantial
number of LEED-certified buildings to 60.
reductions in GHG emissions. In Belgium, we completed
In total, 8.7 million square feet—or 14.5%
drilling of two geothermal energy wells at our Janssen
of our built space—was LEED-certified by
Beerse campus. When completed, it is anticipated
the end of the year.
that the renewable sourced hot water will significantly
reduce the site’s CO emissions. At our Ethicon campus Our LEED Gold-certified Xi’an, China, Janssen facility with a 1 MW
2
in Cincinnati, U.S., we commenced installation of a solar array installed in 2020.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 82Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Energy Use1 Purchased Energy Use by Type (TJ)1
2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Total energy use (TJ) 11,954 12,702 13,208 Electricity 5,922 6,421 6,583
From renewable sources 3,483 2,118 2,246 Natural gas 4,412 4,808 5,020
From non-renewable sources 8,471 10,584 10,962 Diesel 613 465 592
Energy intensity ratio (TJ/billion USD)2 145 155 162 Direct heating / cooling 265 274 180
Percentage change in energy intensity compared Propane 53 51 90
(33)% (29)% (24)%
to 2010 baseline (TJ/billion USD)2
Biogas 28 26 28
Fuel oil 13 15 15
Total purchased energy 11,306 12,059 12,507
In 2020, Johnson & Johnson received
On-Site Generated Energy Use by Type (TJ)1
the EPA SmartWay Excellence Award for
outstanding environmental performance 2020 2019 2018
and climate-efficient transportation. Co-generation 418 439 525
Wind 129 97 78
More than 99% of Johnson & Johnson
Solar PV 73 78 56
freight in North America is transported with
Geothermal 18 6 18
SmartWay-registered carriers with a strong
Fuel cell 7 22 23
record of fuel efficiency and GHG reduction.
Biomass 2 2 2
Total on-site generated energy 647 643 701
1 Includes site-specific data from all Johnson & Johnson owned and leased sites over 50,000 square feet where Johnson & Johnson has operational control, as well as manufacturing and R&D sites under 50,000 square feet, unless otherwise noted.
2 Our diverse product portfolio makes it difficult to track an organization-specific metric; therefore we use revenue as a denominator for energy intensity. Energy intensity ratio includes electricity, stationary fuels, and district heating and cooling.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 83Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions
2020 2019 2018
Scope 1 GHG emissions, total (MT COe)3 363,924‡ 415,094+ 452,407+
2
Scope 1 GHG emissions, by source (MT COe)3
2
Facilities1 269,329 278,717 308,200
‡ Metric has been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statement by ERM CVS.
+ See ERM CVS's independent assurance statements in 2019 and 2018 Health for Humanity Reports.
Sales fleet14 76,720 114,681 122,194
1 Includes site-specific data from all Johnson & Johnson owned and leased sites over 50,000 square feet where Johnson & Johnson
has operational control, as well as manufacturing and R&D sites under 50,000 square feet, unless otherwise noted.
Refrigerants15 14,139 12,979 12,298
3 In accordance with guidance from World Resources Institute Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, we restated the 2018
and 2019 values to reflect newly released electricity grid emission factors as well as addition or removal of acquisitions and divestitures.
Aviation 3,736 8,717 9,715
This threshold for restatement deviates from the one included in the About this Report section. We do not currently use purchases, sales
or transfers of offsets in our GHG accounting. Gases covered in these calculations include CO, CH, NO, and HFCs. Perfluorinated
Scope 2 GHG emissions, facilities (MT CO 2e)1, 3 chemicals, sulfur hexafluoride and nitrogen trifluoride do not result from our operations. Bioge2 nic C4 O
2
E2 missions in 2020 were 1,565
MT CO. Electricity emission factors are obtained from the International Energy Agency’s CO Emissions from Fuel Combustion Report
Location-based 641,489‡ 648,598+ 681,416+ and the2 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's eGRID publication for location-based Scope 22 reporting, and from supply contracts and
residual emission factors, where available, for market-based Scope 2 reporting. Fuel emission factors are obtained from the EPA Climate
Market-based4 383,745‡ 518,542+ 583,361+ Leadership publication. Global Warming Potentials are obtained from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Fifth Assessment
Report. The chosen consolidation approach for emissions is operational control.
Scope 3 GHG emissions, by source (MT COe)3, 13 4 We did not report Scope 2 emissions using the market-based method prior to 2017. Starting from 2017, we have reported Scope 2
2 emissions using both location-based and market-based methods, based on the latest Scope 2 guidance from the World Resources
Purchased goods and services6 9,437,330‡ 9,229,943+ 8,826,462+ Institute in the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
5 Emissions were calculated using Company spend in the reporting year paired with appropriate economic input/output (IO) emission
Upstream transportation and distribution6 2,043,109‡ 2,201,590+ 2,039,872+ factors from the Carnegie Mellon 2002 dataset. Where more specific primary data were able to be obtained, they were used in place
of the IO calculation methodology.
6 Business travel emissions from personal vehicle travel reflect CO only.
Business travel5,6 303,249‡ 601,637+ 768,392+ 2
7 Data from a 2019 survey of a sample of employees in all regions, extrapolated for all employees globally, were used to estimate average
employee commuting emissions intensity per employee. This value, in conjunction with representative 2020 occupancy data estimates,
Employee commuting7 131,128 267,881 351,260
was used to calculate emissions from Employee Commuting. It should be noted that due to the assumptions that were made, Johnson &
Johnson did not receive third-party limited assurance for this scope, but will work to improve these assumptions in the coming years.
Capital goods5 271,206‡ 281,092+ 271,422+
8 Emissions from fuel- and energy-related activities were calculated for emissions from transmission and distribution (T&D) losses from
purchased electricity, well-to-tank (WTT) emissions from purchased electricity, WTT emissions from T&D losses, and WTT emissions
Fuel- and energy-related activities8 183,087‡ 190,386+ 203,498+ from purchased fuels. Emissions were calculated using IEA loss factors for electricity and DEFRA WTT emission factors for fuels and
electricity. Due to an update in calculation methodology, 2018 and 2019 figures are restated.
Upstream leased assets9 28,969‡ 39,830+ 39,981+ 9 Emissions from Upstream Leased Assets were calculated by applying the energy intensity from office locations in our Scope 1 and
2 footprint to the building area of leased assets less than 50,000 SqFt, or those greater than 50,000 SqFt outside of our operational
Waste generated in operations10 8,065‡ 3,618+ 3,702+ control which are excluded from Scope 1 and 2 reporting.
10 Emissions from Waste Generated in Operations were calculated for both non-hazardous and hazardous waste from manufacturing
Downstream transportation and distribution11 Available 58,184+ 65,447+ and R&D operations using DEFRA's emissions factors for waste. Previously, only non-hazardous waste emissions were reported.
12/2021 11 Emissions from Downstream Transportation and Distribution were calculated using the U.S. EPA’s SmartWay Program, and are provided
for U.S. shippers only. Greenhouse gases covered in these calculations include CO only for the 2019 calendar year, the most up-to-date
Use of sold products12 available, and 2020 data will be available in December of 2021. We have identified 2 a level of uncertainty around the reporting boundary,
and the reported value is potentially overstated.
Direct 108,165 168,612 78,051 12 Emissions from the Use of Sold Products and the End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products were calculated using sales volumes for all
Johnson & Johnson products combined with lifecycle assessment (LCA) models where sales volumes could be obtained; where they
Indirect 7,635,771 7,248,612 6,894,347 could not be obtained, sales revenues and average unit prices were used to estimate volumes. Due to the size of our product portfolio,
LCAs were not performed for every Johnson & Johnson product, so products were placed into LCA categories and a representative
End of life treatment of sold products12 223,038 209,994 222,404 product LCA was applied. It should be noted that due to the assumptions that were made, Johnson & Johnson did not receive third-
party limited assurance for these scopes, but will work to improve these assumptions in the coming years.
GHG emissions intensity ratio (Scope 1 and Scope 2) 9 12 13 13 Emissions from the Processing of Sold Products, Downstream Leased Assets, Franchises, and Investments are not applicable to
Johnson & Johnson operations.
per revenue (MT COe/million USD)
2 14 Greenhouse gases covered in these calculations include CO only.
2
Percentage decrease in GHG emissions intensity 59% 46% 43% 15 Includes site-specific data from all Johnson & Johnson manufacturing and R&D sites only.
(Scope 1 and Scope 2) per revenue compared to
2010 baseline (MT COe /million USD)
2
2020 Health for Humanity Report 84Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Air Emissions by Category
2020 2019 2018
Hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions (MT) 34.62 39.98 30.25
Volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions (MT) 366.08 394.07 414.05
Particulate matter (PM) emissions (MT) 89.20 116.56 247.14
Refrigerant emissions (MT) 9.58 8.01 7.85
Ozone depleting substances emissions (MT) 1.86 1.11 1.53
Sulfur oxide (SOx) emissions (MT) 65‡ 51+ 64+
Mono-nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions (MT)* 45‡ 35+ 46+
‡ Metric has been assured by ERM CVS. See independent assurance statement by ERM CVS.
+ See ERM CVS's independent assurance statements in 2019 and 2018 Health for Humanity Reports.
* Due to a unit conversion error, 2018 and 2019 figures are restated. The previous emissions data in 2018 and 2019
Health for Humanity Reports were historically assured and the restatement calculations have been reviewed as part
of this year’s assurance engagement.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 85Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Water & Waste Management Reuse of solvents: At our facility in Geel, Belgium, we have adopted a process to
make our solvents reusable through distillation. Our detailed analysis of around 20
GRI 303-3, 303-4, 303-5, 306-3, 306-4, 306-5, SASB: CG-HP-140a.1; CG-HP-140a.2
regularly used solvents shows that distillation in an open- or closed-loop cycle—
We continue to advance initiatives across all our facilities and throughout our supply whether conducted at our site or via external partners—delivers significant solvent
chain to systematically minimize our impacts on the planet through responsible use of saving and an overall reduction in GHG emissions. In this way, in 2020, we distilled
water, avoidance of waste and reduction of waste to landfill. See also our Position on more than 1.5 million liters of solvent, thereby avoiding more than 14,800 metric tons
Water and Waste Management. of COe emissions.
2
Plastic waste reduction: At Johnson & Johnson Consumer Health Shanghai, our team
found opportunities to make improvements, not only improving the process to reduce
waste plastic generation, but also to recycle and/or reuse those plastics as some form
Over the past three years, we decreased non-
of raw material to produce other products. Since then, the site has deployed a robust
hazardous waste disposed to landfills from 15,356 environmental sustainability strategy and implemented a series of programs that have
metric tons in 2017 to 7,860 metric tons in 2020. reduced 52.5 tons of plastic materials and have saved 47 tons of plastic waste from
incineration by diverting them to recycling streams instead.
Examples of progress at our facilities in 2020 include:
Water risk assessment: We completed a comprehensive water risk assessment at
100% of manufacturing and R&D locations in 2019. By the end of 2020, 100% of all
high-risk sites identified developed mitigation plans, 61% completed their action plans
and remaining sites have ongoing mitigation plans with budget assigned for completion
in 2021.
Water purification in Thailand: At our Johnson & Johnson Thailand facility, our
team made a focused effort to reduce purified water consumption by implementing
improvements such as downsizing the hosing that cleans production equipment,
improving the efficiency of the equipment cleaning process and optimizing hot water
consumption in stainless steel mobile storage tanks. This “fit for purpose” cleaning
approach delivered significant water savings and reduced energy consumption for
water heating.
For the second year in a row,
Johnson & Johnson was recognized
with a CDP A List rating for Water
Security.
Our Geel, Belgium, site.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 86Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Water Use Summary Operational Waste (MT)
2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Total water withdrawn (million m3) 11.09 11.71 11.64 Total waste generated 183,034 195,272 194,442
Total water consumed (million m3) 4.28 4.57 Not reported Hazardous waste 53,944 53,425 52,672
Total water recycled and reused (million m3) 0.75 0.81 0.84 Non-hazardous waste 129,090 141,848 141,770
Total water discharge (million m3) 7.56 7.95 7.69
Percentage of water withdrawn in regions of high or 39% 39% Not reported Non-Hazardous Waste by Disposal Method (MT)
extremely high baseline water stress
Percentage of water consumed in regions of high or
50% 48% Not reported 2020 2019 2018
extremely high baseline water stress
Recycled 82,184 83,118 79,827
Water Withdrawn by Source (million m3) Energy recovery 17,969 20,793 22,356
Landfilled 7,860 12,512 13,878
2020 2019 2018
Reused 13,271 13,282 12,796
Municipal 7.72 8.68 8.21
Bio/chemical treatment 4,948 9,192 8,704
Groundwater 3.08 2.85 3.26
Incinerated 2,799 2,923 4,167
Greywater 0.15 0.06 0.06
Other 59 28 42
Other 0.06 0.07 0.06
Total non-hazardous waste 129,090 141,848 141,770
Rainwater 0.06 0.03 0.04
Surface water 0.02 0.02 0.02
Hazardous Waste by Disposal Method (MT)
Total water use 11.09 11.71 11.64
2020 2019 2018
Water Discharge by Destination (million m3) Recycled 22,813 25,897 24,652
Energy recovery 19,836 16,684 16,374
2020 2019 2018
Landfilled 2,533 3,449 3,462
Wastewater treatment plant 5.12 5.46 5.21
Incinerated 4,824 3,373 2,953
Surface water 2.00 2.12 2.11
Reused 2,234 1,756 2,758
Irrigation 0.19 0.19 0.19
Bio/chemical treatment 1,599 2,181 2,372
Other 0.07 0.06 0.10
Other 104 86 101
Ocean 0.18 0.12 0.08
Total hazardous waste 53,944 53,425 52,672
Total water discharge 7.56 7.95 7.69
2020 Health for Humanity Report 87Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Product Sustainability VISTASEAL: VISTASEAL Fibrin Sealant for surgical use Green Chemistry
was relaunched with an innovative shipping method that
GRI 302-5, J&J20-12, SASB HC-MS-410a.1, Janssen continues to integrate principles of green
enables the product to remain frozen during transport in
SASB HC-MS-410a.2, SASB CG-HP-410a.2 chemistry and engineering to develop our medicines.
a reusable container. Compared to the previous shipping
For example, our R&D team collaborated with a supplier
We are committed to developing more sustainable method, the new packaging reduces GHG emissions by
to create a more efficient chemistry process to develop
products that contribute to a healthier planet. 75% and post-consumer waste by 95%.
an ingredient in a treatment for major depressive
Our approach is based on science and a lifecycle
disorder, which reduced raw materials by close to half.
accountability for product impacts, from discovery Lifecycle Assessment with EARTHWARDS
In another example, our R&D team applied continuous
and design, raw material sourcing and manufacturing
Since 2009, EARTHWARDS has been our approach for forward processing principles to reduce the synthesis
to product use and end of life. See also our Position on
guiding the development of more sustainable products. process for an ingredient in a cardiovascular treatment.
Sustainable Products and Packaging.
We use the EARTHWARDS approach to drive continuous The approach reduced the amount of energy and raw
Examples of products with sustainability improvements sustainable improvement by ensuring that new products materials required, and reduced waste, while increasing
in 2020 include: meet specific product stewardship requirements and the yield of ingredient produced.
helping product teams to understand the product
NEUTROGENA Skin Balancing Cleanser Line: Our Janssen R&D team also collaborated with suppliers
category's lifecycle impact areas. In 2020, we
A new product range in the United States that includes to adopt green chemistry and engineering principles
continued to make further progress with EARTHWARDS
a cleansing wipe made with plant-based, home to make a prescription medicine used with other
recognitions:
compostable fibers and facial cleansers sold in bottles antiretroviral medicines to treat HIV-1 infection in adults.
made of 30% post-consumer recycled material. By adopting a novel continuous catalytic process to
create a component in the final product, our suppliers
6 new products achieved were able to improve raw material and hazardous
waste profiles, contributing to decreasing the overall
EARTHWARDS recognition in
environmental footprint of the product.
2020.
Sustainable Packaging & Recycling
68 EARTHWARDS-recognized Packaging plays a critical role in maintaining the quality,
products* resulted in annual safety and integrity of our products throughout our
value chain. In addition to complying with packaging
impact reductions** as follows:
regulations in the countries where our products are sold,
we are proactive about increasing recycled content of
• Material reduced: 19,255 MT our packaging and improving its recyclability.
• Water saved: 368,507 liters In 2020, our Consumer Health business announced its
Healthy Lives Mission, an $800 million sustainability
• Waste reduced: 125 MT investment over 10 years that includes goals to reduce
packaging waste. In 2020, we made progress to
• GHG emissions avoided: reduce the impact of plastic packaging in several areas,
including:
38,906 MT CO e
2 • Began several projects to replace carbon black
plastic bottles across our Consumer Health portfolio,
* Products recognized between 2009 – 2020; excludes products that
including changing OGX Purifying+Charcoal Detox
are no longer EARTHWARDS-recognized due to discontinuations,
divestitures or changes to the product. Shampoo and Conditioner bottles from black to clear,
The full NEUTROGENA Skin Balancing Cleanser line ** Savings are for products recognized through the end of 2020 and which reduces the brand's output of non-recyclable
are estimated based on best available methodologies for each
impact reduction area; select products are not included in savings plastic in North America by more than 120,000
estimation because of lack of detailed data. pounds.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 88Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
• Continued actions to address two remaining PVC Partnerships for circularity: In 2020, we continued to products packaging and device take-back programs
rigid plastic containers by transitioning away from a engage with partners on projects that advance a circular in different markets. For example, we expanded
PVC tray in Latin America and replacing a PVC bottle economy, for example: the Janssen SAFE RETURNS Program for home-
in Asia. administered immunology products in the United States
• The Recycling Partnership's Film & Flexibles
and collaborated on pharmaceutical disposal options as
• Launched four new refill at-home shower gels in Coalition: Industry-wide collaborative to identify ways
members of the Pharmaceutical Product Stewardship
Europe through our LE PETIT MARSEILLAIS brand to collect more flexible packaging in the United States.
Work Group.
to minimize packaging waste, and actively advanced
• Stina Tubes CORE Project: Partnership to advance the
several options for additional products such as adult
recycling of plastic squeeze tube packaging in North
and baby body washes and lotions in different markets
America and Europe.
for launch in the coming years. 1.60 million
• A*STAR Institute of Materials Research and
• Began removing pumps from JOHNSON’S Baby
Engineering Circular Materials Lab: Collaboration to
lotions and washes in smaller sizes in several markets, medical devices collected and
identify circular flexible film packaging solutions.
replacing them with a flip-top cap, avoiding millions of
non-recyclable pumps being routed to landfill. • We continue our partnership with the Healthcare
Plastics Recycling Council and the Sustainable 0.67 million
• Implemented a new process to produce a plastic
Healthcare Coalition, collaborating with industry
film for packaging that includes 30% post-consumer
leaders to increase healthcare recycling, reduce waste,
recycled waste for STAYFREE in Brazil. reprocessed in 2020*
and elevate sustainability in global health systems.
Examples of recycling and packaging solutions from our • We extended our original investment in the Closed
* Compared to 2019 results, device collections reduced because
Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices segments include: Loop Infrastructure Fund for an additional five years of COVID-19’s impact on reducing surgical activity.
to continue to build the recycling infrastructure in
• Launched an innovative recycling project for
North America and spur technological innovation
ETHICON single-use surgical instruments in
toward a more circular economy.
Germany, enabling recycling of their metal and
Medical Devices: The Johnson & Johnson Medical
plastic components while digitally capturing and
Devices Companies (JJMDC) are committed to
communicating the environmental impact made. Products in the Environment
helping health systems reduce expenses and decrease
• Developed new Pulp Injection Molding tray packaging We recognize that the products we create to help environmental impact while meeting or exceeding
platform, image below, that will eliminate the use of patients, doctors and consumers can have environmental original equipment manufacturing medical device
plastic trays as part of our pharmaceutical combination impacts after use. We assess the end-of-life impacts of functional requirements. Offering reprocessed single-
product portfolio. our products and develop category-specific action plans use devices manufactured by Sterilmed, Inc., a part of
to improve performance over time. See our Position on the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, is one way
Impact of Pharmaceuticals and Personal Care Products in which we fulfill this commitment.
in the Environment.
As a leading provider of reprocessing services,20 in
Pharmaceutical Products: We continue to advance addition to reprocessing devices originally manufactured
our progress in understanding and reducing the impact by members of the JJMDC, we also offer reprocessed
of pharmaceuticals in the environment. As an active products from the other original manufacturers, which
and founding member of the Antimicrobial Resistance gives customers more options to meet their needs.
Industry Alliance, we continue to collaborate across the
industry to address AMR. For more information on our
approach to AMR, see our Position on Antimicrobial
Resistance. We are also expanding our pharmaceutical
2020 Health for Humanity Report 89Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Responsible Supply Base
51,000+ $30.6
GRI 102-9, 204-1, 205-2, SASB HC-MS-430a.3
Our extended supply chain comprises more than 51,000 suppliers across our three
suppliers globally billion total supplier
business segments, serving our 90 manufacturing facilities and distribution operations
in virtually all countries of the world. spend*
A critically important link in our value chain, Johnson & Johnson’s supplier network
underpins our business continuity, expands our capabilities and innovation and enables
our ability to serve our patients, consumers and customers and their need for our
essential products and services. We aim to maintain collaborative and trusting supplier
Supplier SSpuepnpdli*e Cr oSnpterancdt*e Cdo ntracted Supplier SSpuepnpdli*e Cr oSnpterancdt*e Cdo ntracted
relationships and encourage a broad diversity of suppliers to work with us. We aim
to ensure our supplier base operates in line with Our Credo values, in compliance by Regionby Region by Businebssy SBeugsmineensst Segment
with laws and regulations and in support of our Health for Humanity Goals. We do this
3% 3%
through our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers, our Supplier Sustainability Program 11% 11% 12% 12%
(SSP)21 and Global Supplier Diversity & Inclusion Program. For more information, see
our Position on Responsible Supply Base and our Position on Business Continuity 34% 34%
Management.
In 2020, as part of our multiyear Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, we made progress 53% 53% 24% 24%
in advancing our responsible supply base. We have now established challenging go3a3l%s 33%
to drive further impact across our supplier base.
30% 30%
2025 Goals
North America NAosrtiah PAamciefircica Asia Pacific Pharmaceutical PMhaermdicacale Duteicvaicles Medical Devices
EMEA ELMaEtiAn America Latin America Consumer Health CCoonsrpuomreart eHealth Corporate
Supplier Sustainability Program
By 2025, expand the Johnson & Johnson Supplier * Represents spend we have control over/addressable spend, defined as products and services that procurement teams
can negotiate with suppliers to meet business goals.
Sustainability Program to include all suppliers; monitoring,
engaging, collaborating on our joint environmental, social
and ethical obligations.
Partnerships for Good
In this section, we share our progress
By 2025, establish 10 supplier Partnerships for Good, in 2020 in the following areas:
collaborating with our suppliers to create innovative solutions
that drive environmental, social and economic improvements. Supplier Engagement
Supplier Diversity
Responsible Sourcing
For full details of these Goals and KPIs, see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 90Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Supplier Engagement
GRI 308-1, 308-2, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1, 412-1, 414-1
We encourage and invite suppliers to enroll in our
Supplier Sustainability Program (SSP) which requires,
among other things, suppliers to complete an Johnson & Johnson was one of two recipients of the EcoVadis 2021
assessment by EcoVadis, a recognized provider of Sustainable Procurement Leadership Awards in the Best Value Chain
business sustainability ratings for global supply chains.
Engagement category. The award acknowledges excellence in engaging
trading partners in sustainability initiatives and honors best-in-class
examples of driving internal engagement to roll out global supplier
Since the inception of the SSP
sustainability programs. The award was based on EcoVadis’ assessment
in 2015, the number of suppliers
of our performance in 2020.
enrolled in the program has
increased from approximately
100 to over 1,100. Our spend
of the program and our goals, and define actions we
with SSP suppliers has
request suppliers to undertake. In 2020, our virtual
increased from 40% of our meetings were held in English and Mandarin. CDP engagement in 2020
spend in 2016 to over 73% As part of our own commitment to the CDP Supply 423 of our suppliers were invited to
Chain program, we encourage our suppliers to participate in the CDP Supply Chain
of our spend in 2020. be transparent about their supply chain impacts Climate Program, an increase of 23%
and publicly disclose to CDP their environmental over 2019. Over 80% of these suppliers
performance, including GHG emissions and water use. disclosed emissions data.
The strong participation of our
We aim to partner more extensively with our suppliers
suppliers earned recognition for
to help them deliver measurable improvements and
Johnson & Johnson in 2020 as we
significant impacts over the next five years and beyond.
were again named to the CDP Supplier
Our Sustainable Procurement Council, comprised Engagement leader board. We were
Our analysis shows that,
of procurement category managers across all our the first healthcare company to achieve
procurement categories, manages the ongoing outreach this recognition in 2017 and remain the with each year of our
to suppliers in the SSP. This intensive annual program only healthcare company on this list for
engagement with EcoVadis,
includes monthly meetings to discuss our progress in four consecutive years. Furthermore—
enrolling suppliers in the SSP and engaging them to and of greater importance—this suppliers are progressively
disclose to EcoVadis and CDP, with a more recent focus progress reflects our consistent focus on improving the
improving performance
on going beyond disclosure to improve performance and sustainability of our supply chain for our communities
impact. The program kicks off each year with a meeting and our planet, as well as the value-creating partnerships and moving from high-risk
with suppliers in partnership with EcoVadis and CDP, in that benefit the resilience of our collective business.
categorization to low-risk.
which we provide context for our SSP, explain elements
2020 Health for Humanity Report 91Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Education and resources for suppliers: In partnership Improving supply chain resilience: We rely on the Auditing supplier compliance: We verify and monitor
with EcoVadis and CDP, we delivered inaugural, year-end resilience of our global supply chains to help ensure supplier compliance with laws and regulations, and
educational webinars to review the progress of our SSP patients, providers and consumers have access to with our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers, through
and supplier performance and share our progress toward medical goods, including during major public health formal assessment and audits. Our EH&S audit program,
our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals. We also shared threats. During 2020, we worked closely across our which has been in place since 2006, is conducted using
new tools, for example, the Johnson & Johnson CDP supply base to engage, assist and support suppliers as the audit protocol and checklist developed by the PSCI.
Climate and Water maturity ladder we created with CDP they partnered with us to maintain their own operations Our social audits program is conducted in accordance
to guide suppliers on their CDP disclosure journey from and supply essential products during the COVID-19 with SMETA 4 guidelines and with a focus on human
beginner to leader. pandemic. For more information, see the section rights.
COVID-19: Supply Chain Resilience.
In 2020, we completed 104 EH&S audits, the majority
Engaging suppliers to improve impacts: In 2020, in Asia, and five social audits. Our audit programs were
“ we undertook to improve the environmental impacts affected by COVID-19, mostly due to travel restrictions,
generated through our external manufacturing supply minimizing on-site workforces and limited resources at
Tessy saw the Supplier
chain by engaging widely across the Asia Pacific region suppliers to support audits. Toward the middle of 2020,
Sustainability Program from with more than 150 external supply sites. We assessed both programs began to complete virtual audits using
several dimensions of Environmental Health and video and other online tools. By year-end, more than
Johnson & Johnson as a great
Safety (EH&S) performance, including process safety half of our EH&S audits had been completed remotely
opportunity for our company management, industrial hygiene, occupational health and our social audits were rolled into our expanded
and workplace safety, and several risk assessment Supplier Sustainability Program as part of our EcoVadis
to improve our sustainability
topics related to various environmental impacts, working assessments.
practices. After years of within the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI)
framework. We offered specialist training for suppliers
collaborating with Johnson &
in several of these areas. Our initial assessment showed
Johnson and participating in that most of the suppliers participating in the assessment
program could demonstrate improvement in at least one
the program, I am excited to
area of EH&S performance, and were eager to continue
see our achievements and to learn, apply best practice and improve their overall
impacts.
Tessy’s efforts in leading our
supply base into this space.
Roland Beck, Owner & President, Tessy
Plastics, Johnson & Johnson supplier
2020 Health for Humanity Report 92Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Supplier Sustainability Program (SSP) Supplier Social Audits
2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018
Spend with suppliers enrolled in SSP (billions)* $18.9 $17.1 $16.3 Supplier social audits completed, total 5 50 11
Percentage of total supplier spend attributable to Completed using SMETA 4-pillar protocol 5 37 9
74% 71% 61%
suppliers enrolled in SSP
Completed using PSCI protocol 0 13 2
Number of suppliers newly enrolled in SSP, annual 328 279 139
Social audits completed, by region
Number of suppliers enrolled in SSP, cumulative since the
1,107 779 500 Asia Pacific 4 37 8
program launch (2015)
Europe, Middle East & Africa 0 5 1
Suppliers invited to participate in CDP Supply Chain
423 344 305
Climate program Latin America 1 6 2
Percentage participated 80% 84% 90% North America 0 2 0
S Wu ap tp el ri e pr rs
o
i gn rv ai mted to participate the CDP Supply Chain 153 112 108 N suu pm pb liee rr so of cc ir ai lt i ac ua dl ifi tsndings** identified as a result of 3 5 0
Percentage participated 79% 84% 88% Supplier EH&S Audits
Supplier EcoVadis Audits
2020 2019 2018
EH&S audits and technical visits completed, total 156 206 185
2020 2019 2018
EH&S audits 104 134 101
EcoVadis assessments completed 1,119 750 542
Technical visits*** 52 72 84
Supplier risk ranking based on EcoVadis assessments
Audits and technical visits, by region
Low-risk 729 462 323
Asia Pacific 133 174 155
Medium-risk 349 259 195
Europe, Middle East & Africa 13 13 18
High-risk 41 29 24
Latin America 2 7 5
North America 8 12 7
Number of suppliers identified as high-risk for non-
conformance to Johnson & Johnson Responsibility 24 32 23
Standards for Suppliers
Number of critical EH&S findings** identified as a result
2 34 27
of EH&S audits
Safety-related findings 2 23 21
Environmental-related findings 0 11 6
* Represents spend we have control over/addressable spend, defined as products and services that procurement teams can negotiate with suppliers to meet business goals.
** We define a critical finding as evidence of very high risk to human life or potential catastrophic impact to facility, community or environment. We expect suppliers and potential suppliers to address critical findings immediately.
*** A technical visit is a follow-up visit to the initial audit.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 93Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Supplier Diversity
“
Maintaining a diverse and inclusive supplier base reflects the way we think about
our business, our people, our innovation, our markets and our communities. We
Guided by Our Credo, we have a
believe our differences are our strength, and our inclusive culture unleashes our
potential. Our Global Supplier Diversity & Inclusion Program provides a platform
responsibility to the communities in which
for proactive outreach to diverse and small suppliers, collaboration with partners
advancing supplier diversity and guiding suppliers on how to engage with Johnson &
we live and work. Increasing our diverse
Johnson. We exceeded our Health for Humanity 2020 Goals, which were to achieve
benchmark spending for Tier 1 and Small Business in the United States, and we supplier base—and engaging all suppliers
increased our global footprint from six countries in 2016 to 17 countries in 2020.
on the importance of diversity, equity and
Our global supplier diversity and inclusion goal sets a new ambitious target that will
galvanize our organization to achieve an even more inclusive supplier network.
inclusion—helps us drive social and economic
inclusion, and reflects the diversity of our
2025 Goals patients and consumers around the world.
Global Supplier Diversity and
Kathy Wengel, Executive Vice President
Inclusion
& Chief Global Supply Chain Officer, Johnson & Johnson
By 2025, achieve $4.5 billion Global Impact Spend with small
and diverse suppliers, representing a 20% increase from 2020.
In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic placed great strain on our entire supply chain. We
worked closely across our supplier network where needed to help manage the issues
suppliers faced in maintaining operations. For more information, see the United in
Defeating COVID-19 section.
For full details of this Goal and KPI, see our Health for Humanity 2025 Goals.
Promoting diverse businesses: In 2020, we evolved our procurement processes and
strategy through which we aim to identify, engage with and contract with diverse
enterprises, and we strengthened our collaborative relationships with key advocacy
organizations that support diverse businesses.
For the 10th consecutive year, Johnson & Johnson Part of this supplier diversity evolution included the launch of strategies focused on
growing spend and footprint across the Johnson & Johnson Enterprise. They included
maintained membership in the Billion Dollar
education campaigns, engagement of senior level sponsorship both in and outside
Roundtable, a group of companies that advance of procurement, and dedicated teams to develop and execute strategies. Highlights
best practices for supplier diversity, and that spend include:
at least $1 billion (Tier 1) annually with certified • We augmented our longstanding support for Black-owned and African American
enterprises:
minority-, women-, veteran-, LGBT- and disability-
• In response to the heightened focus on racial justice by Johnson & Johnson,
owned businesses.
we launched a Black-owned business strategy to grow spend with this key
demographic group. We sponsored the “In This Together” campaign of the
National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) to support their
Rebuilding Fund, helping minority businesses recover from the economic
2020 Health for Humanity Report 94Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
downturn caused by the pandemic. We also
earned senior leader representation on the
national Board of the NMSDC in addition to our Johnson & Johnson was recognized as the winner of the Supplier Diversity
Board membership at the regional level in New
York/New Jersey. & Inclusion Category at the 2020 World Procurement Awards for value
expressed by the business, partnership with peer companies through peer
• We expanded our alliance with the African American
Chamber of Commerce of New Jersey, and as a New ideation events, advocacy partnerships, and our positive impact on the
Jersey-based company, we supported its annual
economy and job creation.
awards program recognizing accomplished African
Americans. We also supported the State of Black
New Jersey 2020 Economic Virtual Summit and an
educational program for African American- and Black-
In addition to sponsorships and engagements to drive
owned businesses.
awareness, capabilities and connections for diverse
• We continued our focused strategy to grow spend businesses, we also maintained and expanded other In 2020, minority-
with LGBT suppliers by strengthening our relationship supplier diversity programs, including:
with the National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of owned suppliers
Mentoring women-owned businesses: In 2020,
Commerce (NGLCC). We supported their “Mentorship
we launched the third year of our global Women provided over $1.2 billion
Protégé” program and the first NGLCC Communities
Mentoring Women program with 28 program
of Color Virtual Matchmaking event to help create
participants comprising 14 certified Women-Owned in goods and services to
opportunities for suppliers owned by LGBT people of
Business Enterprise owners and 14 Johnson & Johnson
color. In addition, we became a founding member of leaders from a range of business functions. For the Johnson & Johnson.
the European LGBTIQ Chamber of Commerce.
first time since the program's inception in 2017, 50% of
• As part of our Veteran-owned business focus, participating Women-Owned Business Enterprises are
we continued our relationship with key advocacy based outside of the United States, covering all regions
organizations, such at the National Veterans Business of the world. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, the program Our work with the Social Supermarket not only
Development Council, for which we were honored to ran virtually in 2020. provided our employees access to unique social impact
receive the Corporation of the Year Award in 2020. products but also allowed suppliers to demonstrate their
Expanding our Buy Diverse eMarketplace platform:
We also provided sponsorship of the New Jersey capabilities and access seed funding to enable them to
The goal of Buy Diverse, which was piloted on a limited
State Veterans Chamber of Commerce in support of scale their enterprises.
basis in the United States during 2018, is to drive
their initiative to provide support for small businesses
increased visibility for diverse suppliers in the buying Driving supplier diversity in our R&D supply chain:
impacted by the pandemic.
platform. In 2020, we expanded the scope of the Despite the challenges of COVID-19 and its impact on
• We expanded our partnership with MSDUK and platform to include South Africa and the UK. our business and our critical suppliers, we were able to
sponsored the Global Supplier Diversity Alliance leverage our existing R&D diverse supplier strategies and
Boosting social enterprises: As one of seven founding
(GSDA) Conference. In addition, during 2020, we strong relationships built over decades to support our
partners of the Buy Social Corporate Challenge (BSCC)
partnered with GSDA members in six markets COVID-19 vaccine development, not only maintaining
in the UK, the flagship program of Social Enterprise UK
(Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, South Africa and critical supplies and services, but simultaneously
that seeks to promote the use of social enterprises in
the UK) to advance minority business enterprises in growing R&D’s diverse supplier spend.
corporate supply chains, we continued taking a lead
markets around the world.
role in advancing this program. Through the efforts Our engagement with R&D suppliers will also play a
• We continued to serve as a major sponsor and of partners, in 2020 BSCC achieved the highest level significant role as we roll out Our Race to Health Equity
corporate member of the Diverse Manufacturing of collective spend since its inception among the 24 platform that includes partnerships that will advance
Supply Chain Alliance, where we sponsor diverse firms participating social enterprise companies. We also diverse enrollment in clinical trials.
to participate in their Supplier Development System. partnered with Social Supermarket, an online, social
enterprise marketplace that sells products that have
a demonstrable social or environmental impact.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 95Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Supplier Diversity Spend*
Spotlight on PRA Health Sciences 2020 2019 2018
In 2020, one of our primary Contract Research Organizations, PRA Diverse supplier spend in the U.S. (billions) $1.7 $1.6 $1.4
Health Sciences, expanded its own diversity, equality and inclusion
Diverse supplier spend in countries outside the U.S.
program, focusing on people, patients, partners, and community with $0.29 Not Reported Not Reported
(billions)
initiatives that are important for Johnson & Johnson and also critical
for our industry which employs and engages many frontline workers. Small business spend in the U.S. (billions) $2.7 $2.6 $2.8
Elements of PRA’s progress include:
Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender supplier spend
$4.5 $3.7 $2.0
in the U.S. (millions)
• Greater focus on hiring diversity, including engagement
with Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Veteran- and disabled veteran-owned supplier spend
$193.2 $169.6 $139.0
with military veterans and those with differing learning abilities; in the U.S. (millions)
Women-owned supplier spend, global (millions) $826.0 Not Reported Not Reported
• Increased participation in women’s mentoring and leadership
programs; Minority-owned supplier spend, global (millions) $1,223.4 Not Reported Not Reported
Tier 2 diverse supplier spend, global (millions) $372.1 Not Reported Not Reported
• Global conscious and unconscious bias training for all employees; and
* Except Tier 2 diverse spend, all indicators represent spend we have control over/addressable spend, defined as products and
• Expansion of their Employee Resource Groups, including one
services that procurement teams can negotiate with suppliers to meet business goals.
for nurses, to help them connect with one another, support local
communities and engage in innovation initiatives.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 96Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Responsible Sourcing
SASB HC-MS-430a.3
Across our business, we source several commodities
and raw materials in multiple categories. Some of these
require heightened procurement focus due to critical Forest Partnerships Wood-Fiber Products
environmental or biodiversity concerns or elevated
human rights risks in the supply chain. Beyond our We maintain two multiyear forest We partner with Rainforest Alliance
overall sustainable sourcing framework that applies to all partnerships with the World Wildlife to implement our wood-fiber product
the materials and goods we purchase, as encompassed Fund in Sabah, Malaysia, and Sumatra, sourcing criteria, leveraging technology
in our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers, we Indonesia, to enable the protection of to enhance the accuracy and efficiency
collaborate with partners to understand the potential tropical rain forests that are critical for of our sourcing assessments of these
risks and impacts of our procurement activities and to climate mitigation, wildlife conservation, products.
define appropriate standards and controls in responsible and long-term community well-being.
sourcing of commodities and materials of concern.
In 2020, we scored A- for
palm oil disclosures and B Palm Oil Conflict Minerals
for timber disclosures in We implement our sourcing As members of the Responsible
criteria with our top suppliers by Minerals Initiative and in line with
the CDP Forests Program, volume, building transparency regulatory requirements, we remain
and monitoring non-conformance committed to taking steps to determine
representing progress since
as part of our partnership with the use, country of origin and source of
Earthworm Foundation. conflict minerals in our global product
our first submissions for
portfolio.
2018, in which we scored
C across both categories.
We are one of 687
companies worldwide that See our positions and updates Responsible Palm Oil Sourcing Policy
disclose to this important relating to responsible sourcing Responsible Wood-Fiber Product Sourcing Policy
of key commodities or materials Position on Respecting Biodiversity
CDP framework addressing
of concern: Position on Conflict Minerals
deforestation impacts.
Annual Conflict Minerals Report
2020 Health for Humanity Report 97Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Reporting Hub
2019 Health for Humanity Report
Downloads:
Progress in Sustainability
ESG Summary
Performance Data
GRI Content Index
GRI Culture of Health for Business Framework
SASB Index
TCFD
UNGC Communication on Progress
CDP Climate Change 2020
CDP Water Security 2020
Health for Humanity Report covers from the past three years.
Photo credits: 2019 cover photos (TOP) by Rwanda Ministry of Health; 2018 cover photo (BOTTOM LEFT)
by Jonathan Burton; and 2017 cover photo (BOTTOM RIGHT) by Susan Warner for Save the Children.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 98Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
About this Report stakeholders and to our Company (for more information, Our Global Audit & Assurance reviewed select data
please see Sustainability Priorities). As we navigate the for accuracy, completeness and validity. The financial
rapidly evolving space of ESG frameworks, standards data and general information about the business in this
GRI 102-10, 102-46, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50,102-51, 102-52,
and guidelines, we leverage these material issues to Report were previously audited for disclosure in our
102-53, 102-54, 102-56
prioritize our disclosures and effectively communicate 2020 Annual Report.
Johnson & Johnson’s 2020 Health for Humanity Report to our stakeholders. We will continue to evaluate these
Acquisitions: EH&S data of recently acquired
(the Report) details our progress in sustainability. topics in the future and, accordingly, our ESG disclosure
companies, except for employee road safety data and
It is also our primary source of annual disclosure may evolve over time.
site ISO and OHSAS certification data, are included in
on environmental, social and governance (ESG)
Independent Review and Assurance: ERM the Report two years after acquisition, unless otherwise
performance and should be reviewed in conjunction
Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) noted. This grace period allows the new acquisitions to
with disclosures on the ESG Policies & Positions page.
conducted independent review and assurance of adjust their EH&S management and reporting systems
Data in this Report cover the period between January
the following information and data in the Report to Johnson & Johnson standards. Road safety data
1, 2020, and December 31, 2020, unless otherwise
(see independent assurance statements by ERM CVS): are integrated the first year after acquisition, where
indicated. Reporting on other matters specific
available, and two years after acquisition at the latest.
to financial performance of the Company and its • Progress against our Health for Humanity 2020
ISO and OHSAS certification data are integrated three
subsidiaries can be found in our 2020 Annual Report. Goals, and associated data presented in the Health
years after acquisition. The dates and details of recent
for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress Scorecard.
This Report covers Johnson & Johnson’s worldwide acquisitions can be found in Note 18 (Acquisitions and
operations across our three business segments: • Progress against United Nations Sustainable Divestitures) on page 83 of our 2020 Annual Report.
Pharmaceutical, Medical Devices and Consumer Development Goals (UN SDGs) commitments,
Divestitures: Except for injury statistics and violations or
Health. For select metrics, we report segment-level and associated data presented in the UN SDGs
fines, EH&S data of divested companies are excluded in
data. Contract manufacturers are excluded from the Commitment Progress Scorecard.
the reporting year.
scope of this Report, unless otherwise noted. References
• Select year 2020 global greenhouse gas (GHG)
in this Report to “Johnson & Johnson,” the “Company,” Restatements: We use a 5% change threshold to apply
emissions inventory, the percentage of electricity
“we,” “us” and “our” and all similar references are to to significant changes in data or information that is
use generated by renewable energy sources, and
Johnson & Johnson and its consolidated subsidiaries, restated, unless otherwise noted. There are a number
NOx and SOx emissions (from combustion sources).
unless otherwise stated or the context otherwise of potential reasons that may lead to a restatement of
requires. either prior periods or baseline data (e.g., a significant
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) performed limited
change in newly published measures, new acquisitions
The Report has been prepared in accordance with assurance on certain data in the following categories
or divestitures, data errors, or improvements in data
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core (see PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants and
collection methodology over time). Depending on
option. New this year, we report our performance Management's Assertion):
circumstances, each is evaluated using this threshold,
against GRI’s new framework, the Culture of Health for
• Our Giving and appropriate disclosures are included in the Report.
Business (COH4B) practices and metrics. The Report
Data that were not disclosed in prior years are noted as
also includes the Sustainability Accounting Standards • Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (select metrics)
“not reported” in relevant tables throughout the Report.
Board (SASB) Index, providing disclosures against
• Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) Governance
relevant SASB Standards, and our first qualitative Task
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) • Employee Turnover
disclosure, building on our responses to the CDP
• Employee Safety (select metrics) Contact us:
climate questionnaire in previous years. The Report also
serves as our annual United Nations Global Compact • Ethics and Compliance (Our Credo Integrity Line We welcome your queries and feedback on
Communication on Progress. Complaints & Inquiries) this Report. Please contact the Johnson &
Johnson Enterprise ESG Program Office at
Materiality22 Approach: The content in this Report is • Ethics and Compliance (Triage Committee
WW-Corporate-Governance@its.jnj.com.
guided by our Priority Topics Assessment (PTA), which Investigations)
helps us identify and prioritize the environmental,
• Product Quality
social and governance topics that matter most to our
2020 Health for Humanity Report 99Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking factors can be found in Johnson & Johnson's Annual
Statements: This Report contains “forward-looking Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January
statements” as defined in the Private Securities 3, 2021, including in the sections captioned “Cautionary
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among other Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and
things: future operating and financial performance, “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” in the Company’s most recently
product development, market position and business filed Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the Company’s
strategy. The reader is cautioned not to rely on these subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange
forward-looking statements. These statements are Commission. Copies of these filings are available online
based on current expectations of future events. If at www.sec.gov, www.jnj.com or on request from
underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or known Johnson & Johnson. Any forward-looking statement
or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual made in this release speaks only as of the date of this
results could vary materially from the expectations release. Johnson & Johnson does not undertake to
and projections of Johnson & Johnson. Risks and update any forward-looking statement as a result of
uncertainties include, but are not limited to: risks related new information or future events or developments.
to the impact of the COVID-19 global pandemic, such
Third-party trademarks used herein are trademarks
as the scope and duration of the outbreak, government
of their respective owners.
actions and restrictive measures implemented in
response, material delays and cancellations of medical
procedures, supply chain disruptions and other impacts
to the business, or on the Company’s ability to execute
business continuity plans, as a result of the COVID-19
pandemic, economic factors, such as interest rate and
currency exchange rate fluctuations; competition,
including technological advances, new products and
patents attained by competitors; challenges inherent
in new product research and development, including
uncertainty of clinical success and obtaining regulatory
approvals; uncertainty of commercial success for new
and existing products; challenges to patents; the impact
of patent expirations; the ability of the Company to
successfully execute strategic plans; the impact of
business combinations and divestitures; manufacturing
difficulties or delays, internally or within the supply
chain; product efficacy or safety concerns resulting in
product recalls or regulatory action; significant adverse
litigation or government action, including related to
product liability claims; changes to applicable laws and
regulations, including tax laws and global healthcare
reforms; trends toward healthcare cost containment;
changes in behavior and spending patterns of
purchasers of healthcare products and services; financial
instability of international economies and legal systems
and sovereign risk; increased scrutiny of the healthcare
industry by government agencies. A further list and
descriptions of these risks, uncertainties and other
2020 Health for Humanity Report 100Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Independent Assurance Statement
Health for Humanity 2020 Goals Progress
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Johnson & Johnson to provide limited
assurance on cumulative progress over 2016 - 2020 against the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals reported in the
Johnson & Johnson 2020 Health for Humanity Report (the Report) and on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com as
set out below.
Engagement Summary
Scope of our assurance Whether cumulative 2016 - 2020 progress against the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and related Targets as reported in the Health for Humanity 2020 Goals
engagement Progress Scorecard (the Scorecard) in the Reporting Hub section of the Report on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com is fairly presented, in all material respects, in
accordance with the reporting criteria.
Reporting criteria Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and Targets as defined in the Scorecard. World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)/World Resources
Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol for Greenhouse Gas emissions.
Assurance
ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000 Revised).
Standard
Assurance level Limited assurance.
Respective Johnson & Johnson is responsible for preparing the Report, including the Scorecard, and for the collection and presentation of the assured performance
responsibilities information and data.
ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and on exercising our professional
judgement.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 101Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Our conclusion • A review of the presentation of information relevant to
Based on our assurance activities, as described below, the scope of our work on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com
nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the and in the PDF version of the Report to ensure consistency
cumulative progress (2016 - 2020) against the Health with our findings.
for Humanity 2020 Goals and Targets, as reported
The limitations of our engagement
in the Scorecard in the Reporting Hub section on
The reliability of the assured information is subject to
healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com, is not fairly presented,
inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for
in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting
determining, calculating, or estimating the underlying
criteria.
information. It is important to understand our assurance
Our assurance activities conclusions in this context. In addition, the assured
We planned and performed our work to obtain all information should be read in conjunction with the
the information and explanations that we believe boundary and consolidation policies under ‘About this
were necessary to provide a basis for our assurance Report’ on page 99 of the report and the disclosures
conclusions. A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability provided under the column ‘Notable’ in the Scorecard.
and assurance specialists performed assurance Regarding the formation on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com,
procedures as follows: we provide no assurance over any information other than as
described in our assurance scope above nor on changes to
• Conference calls with Johnson & Johnson Enterprise
the content of the assured information after the date of this
ESG Program Office to discuss, understand, and
assurance statement.
evaluate the systems and processes (including
internal review/audit) used for collecting, consolidating, Our observations
evaluating and reporting the information and data used We have provided Johnson & Johnson with a separate
to report progress against the Health for Humanity management report with our detailed findings and
2020 Goals and Targets; recommendations.
• Conference calls with management representatives
responsible for each of the Health for Humanity 2020
Goals and Targets and the implementation of the
related activities undertaken in 2020;
Beth Wyke
• A review of the reporting principles, boundaries, Partner, Global Head of Corporate Assurance Services
definitions and internal guidelines for each of the 1 June 2021
selected Health for Humanity 2020 Goals and Targets;
• A high-level review of the GHG and renewable energy
data to confirm consistency with the findings of our
separate GHG and renewable energy verification
engagement including completeness and consistency ERM Certification and Verification Services, Inc.
over time and the restatements of the baseline and www.ermcvs.com
prior year data; Email: post@ermcvs.com
• A review of samples of underlying documentary
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for
evidence and data to support the reported cumulative clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor training. Our
progress for each Health for Humanity 2020 Goal and processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with
clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the staff that have
Target, including internal and external documents; and
undertaken work on this assurance exercise provide no consultancy related services to
the client in any respect.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 102Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Independent Assurance Statement
UN Sustainable Development Goals Commitment Progress
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Johnson & Johnson to provide limited
assurance on the cumulative 2016 – 2020 progress against the Company’s 2020 Goals related to its Sustainable
Development Goals (SDG) 2030 Vision and aspirations as presented in the Johnson & Johnson 2020 Health for
Humanity Report (the Report) and on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com as set out below.
Engagement Summary
Scope of our assurance Whether cumulative 2016-2020 progress against the 2020 SDG Goals as reported in the 2020 UN SDG Progress Scorecard (the SDG Scorecard) in the
engagement Reporting Hub section of the Report on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com is fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria.
Reporting criteria The 2020 SDG Goals (under Vision 2030) as described in the SDG Scorecard.
Assurance
ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000 Revised).
Standard
Assurance level Limited assurance.
Respective Johnson & Johnson is responsible for preparing the Report, including the SDG Scorecard, and for the collection and presentation of the information within it.
responsibilities ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and on exercising our professional
judgement.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 103Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Our conclusion The limitations of our engagement
Based on our assurance activities, as described below, The reliability of the assured information is subject to
nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the inherent uncertainties, given the nature of the ambitious
cumulative progress (2016 – 2020) against the 2020 SDG Johnson & Johnson aspirations and Targets and the
Goals as reported in the SDG Scorecard in the Reporting dependence on partner organisations to deliver programs
Hub section on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com is not and provide performance information, as well as the
fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance use of estimates, assumptions, and extrapolations
with the reporting criteria. to report progress. Johnson & Johnson describes
these uncertainties in the ‘Challenges of reporting and
Our assurance activities
assuring progress against the SDG goals’ in the SDG
We planned and performed our work to obtain all
Scorecard. It is important to understand our assurance
the information and explanations that we believe
conclusions in this context. Regarding the information
were necessary to provide a basis for our assurance
on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com, we provide no
conclusions. A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability
assurance over changes to the content of the web-based
and assurance specialists performed assurance
information after the date of this assurance statement.
procedures as follows:
Our observations
• A review of the reporting principles, boundaries,
We have provided Johnson & Johnson with a separate
definitions and internal guidelines for each of the 2020
management report with our detailed findings and
SDG Goals;
recommendations.
• Conference calls with Johnson & Johnson team to
discuss, understand, and evaluate the systems and
processes (including internal review/audit) used for
collecting, consolidating, evaluating and reporting the
information and data used to report progress against Beth Wyke
the 2020 SDG Goals; Partner, Global Head of Corporate Assurance Services
1 June 2021
• Review of selected information provided by Johnson &
Johnson partners responsible for delivering programs
and providing the data used to report the 2016 – 2020
progress towards the 2020 SDG Goals;
• A review of completeness and the consolidation of
ERM Certification and Verification Services, Inc.
the program results for 2016 – 2020 for each Goal
www.ermcvs.com
in order to reduce the risk of double counting and to
Email: post@ermcvs.com
understand assumptions as well as overlaps with some
of the Johnson & Johnson Health for Humanity 2020
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts
Goals for which we undertook a separate assurance for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor
engagement; and training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work
we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS
• A review of the presentation of information relevant and the staff that have undertaken work on this assurance exercise provide no
consultancy related services to the client in any respect.
to the scope of our work including explanatory notes
in the ‘Notable’ column in the SDG Scorecard and in
the section on ‘Challenges of reporting and assuring
progress against the SDG goals’ to ensure consistency
with our findings.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 104Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Independent Assurance Statement
GHG Emissions and Electricity Data
ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Johnson & Johnson to provide assurance
in relation to the information set out below and presented on pages 81, and 83 to 85 in the Johnson & Johnson 2020
Health for Humanity Report (the Report) and on healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com as set out below.
Engagement Summary
Scope of our assurance Whether the corporate 2020* data for the following selected indicators are fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria:
engagement • Total absolute Scope 1 GHG emissions in metric tonnes (MT) of COe
2
• Total absolute Scope 2 GHG emissions in metric tonnes (MT) of COe reported using the location based and market based methods
2
• Total absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions in metric tonnes (MT) of COe for the following categories:
2
• 1: Purchased goods and services
• 2: Capital goods
• 3: Fuel and energy-related activities
• 4: Upstream transportation and distribution
• 5: Waste generated in operations
• 6: Business travel
• 8: Upstream leased assets
• 9: Downstream transportation and distribution for U.S. operations (from the EPA SmartWay program for the year ending 31st December 2019)
• Total NOx and SOx from facility combustion sources in metric tonnes (MT)
• Percentage of electricity use generated by renewable energy sources globally
• Percentage of electricity use generated by renewable energy sources in North America (U.S. and Canada)
• Percentage of electricity use generated by renewable energy sources in the EU
* 2019 for Scope 3 downstream transportation and distribution.
Reporting criteria The WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004, as updated January 2015) for the Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions.
Johnson & Johnson’s internal reporting criteria and definitions for the other metrics.
Assurance ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised).
Standard
Assurance level Limited assurance.
Respective Johnson & Johnson is responsible for preparing the data and for its correct presentation in the Report to third parties, including disclosure of the reporting criteria
responsibilities and boundary.
ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgement.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 105Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Our conclusions Our assurance activities statement provides no assurance on the maintenance and
Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention Our objective was to assess whether the assured integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve
to indicate that the following selected 2020* corporate emissions data are reported in accordance with the this, and in particular whether any changes may have
metrics are not fairly presented, in all material respects, principles of completeness, comparability (across the occurred to the information since it was first published.
with the reporting criteria. This conclusion is to be read in organisation) and accuracy (including calculations, use
Due to COVID travel restrictions, we planned our
the context of the remainder of this statement, in particular of appropriate conversion factors and consolidation).
assurance engagement to include virtual site visits.
the information in the emphasis of matter and inherent We planned and performed our work to obtain all
While we believe this approach does not affect our limited
limitations paragraphs below. the information and explanations that we believe
assurance conclusion(s) above, we draw attention to
were necessary to provide a basis for our assurance
Scope 1 GHG emissions: the possibility that if we had undertaken in person visits
conclusions. We applied a 5% material error threshold.
363,924 MT COe we may have identified errors and omissions in the
2
A team of GHG and assurance specialists performed the assured information that we did not discover through
Scope 2 GHG (location-based) emissions:
following key activities: the alternative assurance program.
641,489 MT COe
2
• Virtual interviews with relevant staff to understand Our observations
Scope 2 GHG (market-based) emissions:
internal reporting processes, including the use of its We have provided Johnson & Johnson with a separate
383,745 MT COe
2 GHG Management Plan, internal spreadsheets, and management report with our detailed (non-material)
Scope 3 GHG emissions for the following categories: its various internal data management and reporting findings and recommendations. Without affecting the
systems; conclusions presented above, we have the following key
• Category 1: Purchased 9,437,330 MT COe
2 observation:
goods and services • Virtual site visits to seven sites (Georgia, U.S.; Gurabo,
Puerto Rico; Helsingborg, Sweden; Jacksonville, U.S.; • Johnson & Johnson should document its uncertainty
• Category 2: Capital goods 271,206 MT COe
2 Latina, Italy; Limerick, Ireland; Shanghai, China) to information for each GHG Scope 3 emissions category,
• Category 3: Fuel and 183,087 MT COe review local reporting processes and consistency of particularly regarding Category 9, and describe its
2
energy-related activities reported annual data with selected underlying source efforts to record uncertainty in future revisions of the
data for each indicator. We interviewed relevant staff, Scope 3 emissions inventory.
• Category 4: Upstream 2,043,109 MT COe
2 reviewed site data capture and reporting methods,
transportation and
checked calculations and assessed the local internal
distribution
quality and assurance processes;
• Category 5: Waste 8,065 MT COe
2 • A review of samples of primary data such as invoices;
generated in operations Beth Wyke
• A review of the calculations undertaken, including Partner, Global Head of Corporate Assurance Services
• Category 6: Business travel 303,249 MT COe
2 conversion factors and emission factors used; 1 June 2021
• Category 8: Upstream 28,969 MT COe
2 • A review of estimates, extrapolations and assumptions
leased assets
made in relation to the data for relevant GHG Scope 3
• Category 9: Downstream 58,184 MT COe emissions categories;
2
transportation and
• A review of the calculations for restatement of NOx and
distribution (*2019, from ERM Certification and Verification Services, Inc.
SOx data for 2018 and 2019; and
the EPA SmartWay program www.ermcvs.com
for U.S. operations only) • An analytical review of the consolidated year end data Email: post@ermcvs.com
for each metric.
Emphasis of matter
ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts
Without affecting our conclusion, which is not modified, The limitations of our engagement for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor
we draw attention to the explanatory notes provided by training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work
The reliability of the assured information is subject to we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS
Johnson & Johnson relating to the data on pages 83-84 of
inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for and the staff that have undertaken work on this assurance exercise provide no
the Report, in particular the limitations relating to the data consultancy related services to the client in any respect.
determining, calculating or estimating the underlying
for the Scope 3 emissions category 9 on page 83 of the
information. It is important to understand our assurance
Report which should be read in conjunction with the data.
conclusions in this context. Our independent assurance
2020 Health for Humanity Report 106Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Report of Independent Accountants
To the Board of Directors of Johnson & Johnson
We have reviewed the accompanying Johnson & Johnson management assertion, that the sustainability metrics as of or for the year ended
December 31, 2020 in management’s assertion are presented in conformity with the assessment criteria set forth in management’s assertion.
Johnson & Johnson’s management is responsible for its assertion and for the selection of the criteria, which management believes provide an
objective basis for measuring and reporting on the sustainability metrics. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on management’s
assertion based on our review.
Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(“AICPA”) in AT-C section 105, Concepts Common to All Attestation Engagements, and AT-C section 210, Review Engagements. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the review to obtain limited assurance about whether any material modifications should be made
to management’s assertion in order to be fairly stated. A review is substantially less in scope than an examination, the objective of which is to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether management’s assertion is fairly stated, in all material respects, in order to express an opinion.
Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. We believe that our review provides a reasonable basis for our conclusion.
In performing our review, we have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Professional Conduct issued
by the AICPA.
We applied the Statements on Quality Control Standards established by the AICPA and, accordingly, maintain a comprehensive system of
quality control.
The preparation of the sustainability metrics requires management to establish the criteria, make determinations as to the relevancy of
information to be included, and make assumptions that affect reported information. The selection by management of different but acceptable
measurement techniques could have resulted in materially different amounts or metrics being reported.
Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to Johnson & Johnson’s management assertion in
order for it to be fairly stated.
June 8, 2021
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, 400 Campus Drive, Florham Park, NJ 07932
www.pwc.com
2020 Health for Humanity Report 107Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Johnson & Johnson Management Assertion
As of December 31, 2020 or for the year then ended
Management of Johnson & Johnson is responsible for the completeness, accuracy, and validity of the sustainability
metrics included in the tables below as of December 31, 2020 or for the year then ended (the reporting year) for global
operations, unless otherwise noted. The metrics have been rounded to the nearest whole number unless otherwise
indicated.
Management asserts that the metrics reported in the tables below, which are also included in the Health for Humanity
Report as identified by the “‡“ symbol, are presented in conformity with the assessment criteria set forth below.
Management is responsible for the selection or development of the criteria, which management believes provide
an objective basis for measuring and reporting on the selected metrics. The preparation of the metrics requires
management to establish the criteria, make determinations as to the relevancy of information to be included, and make
assumptions that affect reported information. The selection by management of different but acceptable measurement
techniques could have resulted in materially different amounts or metrics being reported.
Our Giving(a)
Metric Description Metric Value
Total products(b) and cash contributed globally (millions) $2,567
Products(b) contributed globally (millions) $2,043
Cash contributed globally (millions) $524
(a) Contributions are products or cash donations made to qualified nonprofit entities (i.e., 501(c)(3) organizations in the US or with an NGOsource 501(c)(3) equivalency determination for organizations outside the
US) by Johnson & Johnson during the reporting year, or are pledged and accrued during the reporting year, with confirmation of payment in 2021. Administrative costs incurred by Johnson & Johnson during
the contribution process are also included in cash contributions (3% of the total amount).
(b) Products contributed are measured at fair market value, which is the price of the product, as determined by an internal price list in USD as of December 31, 2020, that Johnson & Johnson would sell to
consumers on the market.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 108Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DE&I)
Metric Description Metric Value
Employees(a) 136,400
Gender Diversity of Global Employees(a) (b) Women 48.1%
Global Workforce(a) by Region(d) Asia Pacific 27,939
Europe, Middle East & Africa (EMEA) 41,201
Latin America 20,320
North America 46,900
Gender Diversity(b) by Employment Type(c) (j) Full-time employees Women 47.1%
Part-time employees Women 82.9%
Gender Diversity(b) by Region(d) (j) Asia Pacific: Women 46.2%
EMEA: Women 49.8%
Latin America: Women 51.1%
North America: Women 46.3%
Gender Diversity(b) by Job Category(d) (j) Vice Presidents: Women 35.3%
Managers and Directors: Women 46.8%
Professionals: Women 49.8%
Age Diversity(e) by Job Category(d) (j) Vice Presidents
Under 30 0%
30-50 44.2%
50+ 55.8%
Managers and Directors
Under 30 1.3%
30-50 72.4%
50+ 26.4%
Professionals
Under 30 20.7%
30-50 61.7%
50+ 17.5%
(a) Global Workforce is the global employee headcount as of December 31, 2020, excluding fixed term employees, interns, co-op employees, employees on long-term disability and employees from more recently
acquired companies who are not yet reflected in the Johnson & Johnson Human Resources Information Systems (HRIS) (which does not exceed 2 years from the date of acquisition). Contingent workers,
contractors and subcontractors are also excluded. This data is based on headcount from the HRIS. Global Workforce is rounded to the nearest hundred.
(b) Gender and ethnic/racial diversity are reported in accordance with the gender, ethnicity and race as self-reported by the employee and recorded in HRIS as of December 31, 2020. Other is defined as employees
who self-reported as American Indian or Alaskan Native, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander or two or more races.
(c) An individual working full-time is defined as an employee working 40 hours or more a week. An individual working part-time is defined as an employee working less than 40 hours a week.
(d) The region and job category is obtained from HRIS as of December 31, 2020.
(e) Age diversity is reported in accordance with the age group as self-reported by the employee and recorded in HRIS as of December 31, 2020, and due to rounding may not equal 100.0%.
(j) As of October 2020, new categories were added to allow employees to actively decline self-identification or remain unidentified. Where the value for “Declined to answer” rounded to zero, we excluded from the
reported table.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 109Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DE&I) continued
Metric Description Metric Value
Ethnic/Racial Diversity(b) in the U.S. by Job Category(d) (j) Managers and Directors
Asian 17.2%
Black/African American 5.4%
Hispanic/Latino: 7.3%
Other 1.3%
Declined to answer 1.1%
Professionals
Asian 12.9%
Black/African American 7.5%
Hispanic/Latino 10.2%
Other 2.2%
Declined to answer 0.9%
Diversity in Board Composition(f) Women 35.7%
Ethnic/Racial Diversity 21.4%
Gender Diversity(b) in Management(g) and Executive Positions(h) Women in management positions 46.4%
Women in executive positions 14.3%
Total Number of New Hires(i) 13,594
New Hires(i) by Gender(b) (j) Women 52.5%
Men 47.5%
Declined to answer 0%
New Hires(i) by Age(e) Under 30 46.5%
30-50 48.5%
50+ 4.9%
New Hires(i) by Region(d) (e) Asia Pacific 28.4%
Europe, Middle East & Africa 22.7%
Latin America 22.4%
North America 26.4%
(b) Gender and ethnic/racial diversity are reported in accordance with the gender, ethnicity and race as self-reported by the employee and recorded in HRIS as of December 31, 2020. Other is defined as employees
who self-reported as American Indian or Alaskan Native, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander or two or more races.
(d) The region and job category is obtained from HRIS as of December 31, 2020.
(e) Age diversity is reported in accordance with the age group as self-reported by the employee and recorded in HRIS as of December 31, 2020, and due to rounding may not equal 100.0%.
(f) Gender and ethnic/racial diversity in the Board composition is reported in accordance with the gender and ethnicity as confirmed by board members as of December 31, 2020.
(g) Management position is considered paygrade 30 and above. The paygrades are obtained from HRIS as of December 31, 2020.
(h) Executives are defined as employees reporting directly to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer based on an organization chart including names and positions as of December 31, 2020.
(i) New employee hires are external hires with a start date between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2020 obtained from HRIS.
(j) As of October 2020, new categories were added to allow employees to actively decline self-identification or remain unidentified. Where the value for “Declined to answer” rounded to zero, we excluded from the
reported table.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 110Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) Governance
Metric Description Metric Value
Number of environmental non-compliances(a) (b) 50
Fines paid for environmental non-compliances(b) (c) (thousands) $5.9
Number of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 14001(d) (e) 95
Percentage of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 14001(d) (e) 96%
Percentage of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series) or ISO 45001(d) (e) 21%
(a) Environmental non-compliances represent instances of non-compliance with environmental regulatory requirements or laws that were either (i) self-reported to authorities in the reporting year or (ii) identified
by authorities and the non-compliance occurred in the reporting year. The authorities include regional, national, state/country/province, and local/city regulatory agencies
(b) Environmental non-compliances and fines paid exclude newly acquired sites (i.e., owned less than 2 years as of December 31, 2020).
(c) Fines paid for environmental non-compliances include those paid in the reporting year. It does not include fines assessed and/or under negotiation that were not paid as of December 31, 2020.
(d) Certified to ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001 means the site has received an external certification that is valid as of December 31, 2020.
(e) The denominator of total manufacturing and research & development (R&D) sites excludes small R&D and manufacturing sites (defined as having less than 50 employees) and newly acquired sites (i.e., owned
less than 3 years as of December 31, 2020).
Employee Turnover
Metric Description Metric Value
Percentage of Managers and above moved across functions, country or business segment lines, building diversity of experiences(a) (b) (c) 44.6%
Overall voluntary turnover(d) 5%
Voluntary turnover(d) of high performers(e) 3%
(a) Represents the percentage of employees in Manager and above job categories (defined as paygrade 30 or above in HRIS as of December 31, 2020) who in their career progression moved through upward
promotion or lateral transfer during the reporting year.
(b) Excludes fixed term, intern, and co-op employees, employees on long-term disability, employees from more recently acquired companies who are not yet reflected in HRIS, and employees under research
& development leaders in the Pharmaceutical, Medical Devices and Consumer Health segments.
(c) Employee movement is tracked monthly in HRIS and then consolidated at year end. If an employee moves, for example, across both function and country in the same month, it is only counted as one move.
(d) Employee count excludes fixed term, intern, and co-op employees, employees on long-term disability, and employees from more recently acquired companies who are not yet reflected in HRIS. Voluntary
turnover (the numerator) excludes employees leaving the company due to retirement or death.
(e) High performer is defined as an individual with two consecutive annual performance ratings of Exceeds/Exceeds, Exceeds/Fully Meets, or Fully Meets/Exceeds (note that “exceeds” is one out of four possible
dimension ratings). Employees who are not part of the performance management process are excluded from the voluntary turnover of high performers metric.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 111Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Employee Safety(a)
Metric Description Metric Value
Lost Workday Case (LWDC) rate(b) (c) (d) Global 0.05
Asia Pacific 0.02
Europe, Middle East & Africa 0.04
Latin America 0.08
North America 0.07
Total Recordable Injury rate (TRIR) (b) (e) Global 0.24
Asia Pacific 0.08
Europe, Middle East & Africa 0.21
Latin America 0.18
North America 0.35
Serious Injury and Illness Case (SIIC) rate(b) (f) Global 0.02
Asia Pacific 0.02
Europe, Middle East & Africa 0.01
Latin America 0.01
North America 0.04
Number of fatalities Global 0
(a) Includes data as of December 31, 2020 and hours worked in the reporting year. More recently acquired sites (i.e., owned less than 2 years as of December 31, 2020) are excluded from employee safety metrics.
(b) LWDC rate, TRIR, SIIC rate, and fatalities are calculated for Johnson & Johnson employees and contingent workers. Contingent workers (i.e., workers supplied by third party agencies that are the worker’s
employer of record) are intended to supplement or temporarily replace existing workforce and are directly supervised by a Johnson & Johnson employee. Cases from contractor/ subcontractors (who are not
contingent workers) are excluded.
(c) “Lost days” are calendar days where an employee is unable to work due to illness or injury, beginning the day after an incident has taken place through the last day of leave (excluding holidays and vacations).
(d) LWDC rate is calculated as follows and the data used in the calculation is obtained from the internal Johnson & Johnson CURVE system: (number of LWDC * 200,000 work hours) / total work hours.
(e) TRIR is calculated as follows and the data used in the calculation is obtained from the internal Johnson & Johnson CURVE system: (number of recordable cases * 200,000 work hours) / total work hours.
(f) SIIC rate is calculated as follows and the data used in the calculation is obtained from the internal Johnson & Johnson CURVE system: (number of SIIC * 200,000 work hours) / total work hours.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 112Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Ethics and Compliance (Our Credo Integrity Line Complaints & Inquires)
Metric Description Metric Value
Percentage of inquiries and complaints as filed with Our Credo Integrity Line by Category (a) (b) Human Resources-related 51%
Financial-related 14%
Business integrity-related 12%
Other 11%
General information questions 10%
Product quality and patient safety-related 2%
(a) There are 47 inquiry and complaint categories for the complainant to select from when reporting inquiries and complaints through Johnson & Johnson’s anonymous reporting mechanism which are then
summarized into six reported categories by Johnson & Johnson. Other consists of the following categories: privacy, information security, general security, EH&S, legal/regulatory and follow up.
(b) Johnson & Johnson introduced a 48th human rights category in December 2020 but has excluded those inquiries and complaints in calculating the 2020 percentages presented. This category will be included in
the 2021 Health for Humanity Report.
Ethics and Compliance (Triage Committee Investigations)
Metric Description Metric Value
Number of compliance-related allegations investigated through Triage Committee(a) 559
Percentage of compliance-related allegations investigated through Triage Committee, by category(a) Healthcare compliance(b) 41%
Financial(c) 51%
Other(d) 8%
(a) Compliance-related allegations can be filed by internal or external parties, and for those allegations that meet the internal escalation criteria, they are logged and categorized by Johnson & Johnson management
within the iSight Case Management System and then presented to and investigated through the Johnson & Johnson Triage Committee. Internal escalation criteria includes actual or alleged: expense violations
exceeding $1,000; theft, fraud or misuse of funds exceeding $1,000; non-compliance with laws and regulations, such as anti-corruption laws or human trafficking rules; governmental non-compliance, such
as failure to abide by relevant terms of a US government invoice, contract or pricing program, financial conflicts of interest, false or incomplete statements made to the US government; non-compliance with
internal Johnson & Johnson policies that could result in termination of the employee; data breach or privacy incidents; and misconduct by members of the senior leadership team.
(b) Healthcare compliance-related allegations consist of violations of Healthcare Compliance guidelines including Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) violations.
(c) Financial compliance-related allegations consist of asset misappropriation, conflicts of interest, and financial statements.
(d) Other compliance-related allegations consist of legal, quality, anti-trust, product registration, and privacy.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 113Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Product Quality
Metric Description Metric Value
Number of regulatory inspections(a) of Johnson & Johnson sites by worldwide health authorities(b) 452
Percentage of regulatory inspections(a) that resulted in zero observations(b) 82%
Number of FDA inspections of Johnson & Johnson sites(c) 10
Percentage of FDA inspections that resulted in zero observations(c) 80%
Average number of observations per FDA inspection(c) 1.7
Number of independent audits of Johnson & Johnson sites to ensure compliance with Johnson & Johnson Quality Policy and Standards(d) 165
Number of independent audits of external manufacturing sites(e) to ensure compliance with Johnson & Johnson Quality Policy 230
and Standards(d)
Number of FDA warning letters issued 0
Product recall rate(f), by business segment Pharmaceutical: 0%
Medical Devices: 0.034%
Consumer Health(g): 0%
(a) A regulatory inspection is defined as an inspection conducted by the health authority to determine compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
(b) Health authorities are organizations with authority over the development, manufacture, distribution, placing on the market, and post market surveillance of products. For example, the US Food and Drug
Administration (FDA), Korean Food and Drug Administration (KFDA), British Standards Institution (BSI), and Health Canada. The observations identified during the inspection are listed on a form provided by
the third-party health authority who conducted the inspection.
(c) An FDA inspection is defined as a regulatory inspection performed by the FDA and an observation is defined as the observed condition or practice indicating that an FDA-regulated product may be in violation of
FDA requirements. The observations are listed on FDA Form 483 during inspections conducted by the FDA and then provided to the manufacturer following the FDA inspection.
(d) Independent audits are conducted by internal Johnson & Johnson Regulatory Compliance auditors at Johnson & Johnson sites and external manufacturing sites.
(e) An external manufacturing site is defined as not owned or operated by Johnson & Johnson.
(f) Product recall rate is defined as the number of lots removed from the market as a percentage of total lots globally manufactured, based on field action removals where it has been determined internally
by a Quality Review Board and aligned by Johnson & Johnson Enterprise Compliance, that there is a reasonable probability that the product may cause temporary or medically reversible adverse health
consequences and in certain cases will cause serious adverse health consequences. A lot is defined as a specific quantity of material that has uniform character and quality and was released to market during the
2020 calendar year.
(g) The Consumer Health product recall rate reflects over-the-counter (OTC) products.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 114Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
Glossary
ACRONYM DEFINITION
AMR Antimicrobial Resistance
ARV Antiretroviral
BARDA Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
CDC Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
EH&S Environmental Health and Safety
EMA European Medicines Agency
ESG Environmental, Social and Governance
EUA Emergency Use Authorization
FDA U.S. Food and Drug Administration
GPH Global Public Health
JJBC Johnson & Johnson Bioethics Committee
JJMDC Johnson & Johnson Medical Devices Companies
JLABS Johnson & Johnson Innovation—JLABS
LMICs Low- and middle-income countries
MDR-TB Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis
OCMO The Johnson & Johnson Office of the Chief Medical Officer
OCMS Office of Consumer Medical Safety
PTA Priority Topics Assessment
RSV Respiratory syncytial virus
RWD Real-world data
RWE Real-world evidence
SDG Sustainable Development Goal (of the United Nations)
STH Soil Transmitted Helminths (or intestinal parasites)
USAID U.S. Agency for International Development
WHO World Health Organization
2020 Health for Humanity Report 115Contents | Message from Our CEO | Our Approach | United in Defeating COVID-19 | Better Health for All | Responsible Business Practices | Reporting Hub
References
1 The tax information contained in this section is 10 Nature Microbiology. “Tracking virus outbreaks 17 https://www.who.int/initiatives/who-special-
intended to provide the reader with an overview of in the twenty-first century.” 2019; 4(1):10-19. initiative-for-mental-health.
all taxes contributed by Johnson & Johnson, and not
11 Johnson & Johnson also acknowledges its many 18 https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2020/02/
just income taxes. It should be read in conjunction
strategic partners in the ongoing global clinical who-healthcare-challenges-2020s-climate-conflict-
with the Company’s tax information filed with the
program for the vaccine regimen, including Bavarian epidemics/. Accessed Feb 2021.
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including
Nordic A/S, Centre Muraz, College of Medicine and
in the most recently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 19 https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/maternal-mortality/
Allied Health Sciences, Democratic Republic of the
10-Q and Annual Report on Form 10-K. This tax MMR-2018-State-Data-508.pdf.
Congo Ministry of Public Health, Emory University’s
information is supplemental to, and not a substitute
Project San Francisco, Epicentre, Grameen 20 Chen, Xi, PhD. Decision Resources Group. “Medtech
for, the information reported in the Company’s SEC
Foundation, Inserm, Inserm Transfert, Institut 360: Reprocessed Devices | Market Analysis | US |
filings.
National de Recherche Biomédicale, London School 2016.” Millennium Research Group, Inc., August 2016.
2 Authorization approval status of our COVID-19 of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, Médecins Sans
21 Our Sustainable Procurement Program (SPP) was
vaccine varies by country. For the latest updates, Frontières, Republic of Rwanda Ministry of Health,
renamed as Supplier Sustainability Program (SSP).
please visit Janssen.com. Rinda Ubuzima, Rwanda Biomedical Center, Sierra
Leone Ministry of Health and Sanitation, Uganda 22 Materiality, as used in this Report, and our Priority
3 Johnson & Johnson Medical Devices Companies
Virus Research Institute, Université de Kinshasa, Topics Assessment process are different than the
Elective Surgery Survey.
University of Antwerp, University of Oxford, Walter definition used in the context of filings with the
4 Comparison based on a weighted average of the Reed Army Institute of Research, World Health Securities and Exchange Commission.
procedure time with QDOT MICROTM Technology Organization, World Vision Ireland, Wellcome Trust,
in QMODE (129.8 min; N = 42) and in QMODE+™ Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations,
(105.2 min; N = 52), and the weighted average of Vibalogics, and all the people who participated in
the procedure time with irrigated, contact force RF clinical trials during the Ebola epidemic in West Africa
catheters (202.8 min; 5 studies, N = 622). Comparison and the DRC.
of non-randomized, independent single-arm studies.
12 https://www.who.int/reproductivehealth/
5 https://www.unaids.org/en/resources/fact-sheet publications/ebola-pregnant-and-breastfeeding-
Accessed Feb 2021. women/en/.
6 This combined treatment regimen is marketed as 13 https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/
CABENUVA in North America. antimicrobial-resistance. Accessed February, 2021.
7 N. Gumede and E. Durden. Johnson & Johnson, 14 Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) Report: “It’s Time
Global Public Health, South Africa. Insights on youth to End Drug-Resistant Tuberculosis: The case for
leadership in HIV programming for adolescent girls action.” 2019. Available here: https://www.eiu.
and young women in South Africa: Lessons from com/n/its-time-to-end-drug-resistant-tuberculosis/.
programme implementation. https://dreamstaa.co.za/ Last accessed 22 September 2020.
wp-content/uploads/2021/02/Screenshot-2021-02-
15 “A Road Map for Neglected Tropical Diseases 2021–
24-at-16.35.33.png.
2030,” WHO, Executive Summary, page xii. https://
8 https://academicmedicaleducation.com/meeting/ www.who.int/publications/i/item/9789240010352.
international-workshop-hiv-pediatrics-2020/e-
16 https://www.who.int/neglected_diseases/news/
poster/hiv-infected-treatment-experienced.
Leprosy-new-data-show-steady-decline-in-new-
9 https://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/hand cases/en/.
le/10665/336069/9789240013131-eng.pdf.
Accessed Mar 2021.
2020 Health for Humanity Report 1162020 Health for Humanity Report
Progress in Sustainability
Contact us:
Johnson & Johnson Enterprise ESG Program Office
WW-Corporate-Governance@its.jnj.com
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza
New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933
healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com
jnj.com