UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 10-K
☑ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31 , 2023
or
☐ Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
for the transition period from to
Commission file number 1-3215
Johnson & Johnson
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
New Jersey 22-1024240
(State of incorporation) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza
New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza
New Brunswick , New Jersey 08933
(Address of principal executive offices)
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: ( 732 ) 524-0400
SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT
Title of each class Trading Symbol Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock, Par Value $1.00 JNJ New York Stock Exchange
0.650% Notes Due May 2024 JNJ24C New York Stock Exchange
5.50% Notes Due November 2024 JNJ24BP New York Stock Exchange
1.150% Notes Due November 2028 JNJ28 New York Stock Exchange
1.650% Notes Due May 2035 JNJ35 New York Stock Exchange
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes þ No o
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Yes o No þ
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes þ No o
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes þ No o
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or
emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer”, “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth
company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer ☑ Accelerated filer ☐
Non-accelerated filer ☐ Smaller reporting company ☐
Emerging growth company ☐
If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any
new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. o
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its internal
control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that
prepared or issued its audit report. Yes ☑ No o
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the
filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. o
Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation
received by any of the registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). o
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ☐ No þ
The aggregate market value of the Common Stock held by non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the Common Stock was last sold
as of the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter was approximately $ 430 billion.
On February 9, 2024, there were 2,408,767,228 shares of Common Stock outstanding.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCEPart III:
Portions of the registrant’s proxy statement for its 2024 annual meeting of shareholders filed within 120 days after the close of the
registrant’s fiscal year (the “Proxy Statement”), are incorporated by reference to this report on Form 10-K (this “Report”).Item
Page
P art I
1 Business 1
General 1
Segments of b usiness 1
Geographic a reas 2
Raw m aterials 2
Patents 2
Trademarks 3
Seasonality 3
Competition 3
Environment 3
Regulation 4
Employees and h uman c apital m anagement 6
Available i nformation 8
1A. Risk f actors 9
1B. Unresolved s taff c omments 17
1C. Cybersecurity 17
2 Properties 18
3 Legal p roceedings 18
4 Mine s afety d isclosures 18
Executive o fficers of the r egistrant 19
P art II
5 Market for r egistrant’s c ommon e quity, r elated s tockholder m atters and i ssuer p urchases of e quity s
21
ecurities
6 (Reserved) 21
7 Management’s d iscussion and a nalysis of r esults of o perations and f inancial c ondition 22
7A. Quantitative and q ualitative d isclosures a bout m arket r i sk 42Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K and Johnson & Johnson’s other publicly available documents contain “forward-looking
statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Management and representatives of Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries (the Company) also may from time to time make
forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and reflect management’s
assumptions, views, plans, objectives and projections about the future. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of
words such as “plans,” “expects,” “will,” “anticipates,” “estimates” and other words of similar meaning in conjunction with, among
other things: discussions of future operations; expected operating results and financial performance; impact of planned acquisitions
and dispositions; impact and timing of restructuring initiatives, including associated cost savings and other benefits; the Company’s
strategy for growth; product development activities; regulatory approvals; market position and expenditures.
Because forward-looking statements are based on current beliefs, expectations and assumptions regarding future events, they are
subject to uncertainties, risks and changes that are difficult to predict and many of which are outside of the Company’s control.
Investors should realize that if underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, or known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize,
the Company’s actual results and financial condition could vary materially from expectations and projections expressed or implied
in its forward-looking statements. Investors are therefore cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements. Risks and
uncertainties include, but are not limited to:
Risks related to product development, market success and competition
• Challenges and uncertainties inherent in innovation and development of new and improved products and technologies on which
the Company’s continued growth and success depend, including uncertainty of clinical outcomes, additional analysis of existing
clinical data, obtaining regulatory approvals, health plan coverage and customer access, and initial and continued commercial
success;
• Challenges to the Company’s ability to obtain and protect adequate patent and other intellectual property rights for new and
existing products and technologies in the United States and other important markets;
• The impact of patent expirations, typically followed by the introduction of competing generic, biosimilar or other products and
resulting revenue and market share losses;
• Increasingly aggressive and frequent challenges to the Company’s patents by competitors and others seeking to launch
competing generic, biosimilar or other products and increased receptivity of courts, the United States Patent and Trademark
Office and other decision makers to such challenges, potentially resulting in loss of market exclusivity and rapid decline in sales
for the relevant product sooner than expected;
• Competition in research and development of new and improved products, processes and technologies, which can result in
product and process obsolescence;
• Competition to reach agreement with third parties for collaboration, licensing, development and marketing agreements for
products and technologies;
• Competition based on cost-effectiveness, product performance, technological advances and patents attained by
competitors; and
• Allegations that the Company’s products infringe the patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties, which could
adversely affect the Company’s ability to sell the products in question and require the payment of money damages and future
royalties.
Risks related to product liability, litigation and regulatory activity
• Product efficacy or safety concerns, whether or not based on scientific evidence, potentially resulting in product withdrawals,
recalls, regulatory action on the part of the United States Food and Drug Administration (U.S. FDA) (or international
counterparts), declining sales, reputational damage, increased litigation expense and share price impact;
• The impact, including declining sales and reputational damage, of significant litigation or government action adverse to
the Company, including product liability claims and allegations related to pharmaceutical marketing practices and contracting
strategies;
• The impact of an adverse judgment or settlement and the adequacy of reserves related to legal proceedings, including patent
litigation, product liability, personal injury claims, securities class actions, government investigations, employment and other legal
proceedings;• Increased scrutiny of the healthcare industry by government agencies and state attorneys general resulting in investigations
and prosecutions, which carry the risk of significant civil and criminal penalties, including, but not limited to, debarment from
government business;
• Failure to meet compliance obligations in compliance agreements with governments or government agencies, which could
result in significant sanctions;
• Potential changes to applicable laws and regulations affecting United States and international operations, including relating to:
approval of new products; licensing and patent rights; sales and promotion of healthcare products; access to, and
reimbursement and pricing for, healthcare products and services; environmental protection; and sourcing of raw materials;
• Compliance with local regulations and laws that may restrict the Company’s ability to manufacture or sell its products in
relevant markets, including requirements to comply with medical device reporting regulations and other requirements such as
the European Union’s Medical Devices Regulation;
• Changes in domestic and international tax laws and regulations, increasing audit scrutiny by tax authorities around the world
and exposures to additional tax liabilities potentially in excess of existing reserves; and
• The issuance of new or revised accounting standards by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and regulations by the
Securities and Exchange Commission.
Risks related to the Company’s strategic initiatives, healthcare market trends and the realization of benefits from the
separation of the Company’s Consumer Health Business
• Pricing pressures resulting from trends toward healthcare cost containment, including the continued consolidation among
healthcare providers and other market participants, trends toward managed care, the shift toward governments increasingly
becoming the primary payors of healthcare expenses, significant new entrants to the healthcare markets seeking to reduce
costs and government pressure on companies to voluntarily reduce costs and price increases;
• Restricted spending patterns of individual, institutional and governmental purchasers of healthcare products and services due to
economic hardship and budgetary constraints;
• Challenges to the Company’s ability to realize its strategy for growth including through externally sourced innovations, such as
development collaborations, strategic acquisitions, licensing and marketing agreements, and the potential heightened costs of
any such external arrangements due to competitive pressures;
• The potential that the expected strategic benefits and opportunities from any planned or completed acquisition or divestiture by
the Company may not be realized or may take longer to realize than expected;
• The potential that the expected benefits and opportunities related to past and ongoing restructuring actions may not be realized
or may take longer to realize than expected;
• The Company’s ability to divest the Company’s remaining ownership interest in Kenvue Inc. (Kenvue) and realize the
anticipated benefits from the separation; and
• Kenvue's ability to succeed as a standalone publicly traded company.
Risks related to economic conditions, financial markets and operating internationally
• The risks associated with global operations on the Company and its customers and suppliers, including foreign governments in
countries in which the Company operates;
• The impact of inflation and fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates and the potential effect of such
fluctuations on revenues, expenses and resulting margins;
• Potential changes in export/import and trade laws, regulations and policies of the United States and other countries, including
any increased trade restrictions or tariffs and potential drug reimportation legislation;
• The impact on international operations from financial instability in international economies, sovereign risk, possible imposition of
governmental controls and restrictive economic policies, and unstable international governments and legal systems;
• The impact of global public health crises and pandemics;• Changes to global climate, extreme weather and natural disasters that could affect demand for the Company’s products and
services, cause disruptions in manufacturing and distribution networks, alter the availability of goods and services within the
supply chain, and affect the overall design and integrity of the Company’s products and operations;
• The impact of global or economic changes or events, including global tensions and war; and
• The impact of armed conflicts and terrorist attacks in the United States and other parts of the world, including social and
economic disruptions and instability of financial and other markets.
Risks related to supply chain and operations
• Difficulties and delays in manufacturing, internally, through third-party providers or otherwise within the supply chain, that may
lead to voluntary or involuntary business interruptions or shutdowns, product shortages, withdrawals or suspensions of products
from the market, and potential regulatory action;
• Interruptions and breaches of the Company’s information technology systems or those of the Company’s vendors, which could
result in reputational, competitive, operational or other business harm as well as financial costs and regulatory action;
• Reliance on global supply chains and production and distribution processes that are complex and subject to increasing
regulatory requirements that may adversely affect supply, sourcing and pricing of materials used in the Company’s products;
and
• The potential that the expected benefits and opportunities related to restructuring actions may not be realized or may take
longer to realize than expected, including due to any required approvals from applicable regulatory authorities.
Investors also should carefully read the risk factors described in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of
certain risks that could, among other things, cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in its
forward-looking statements. Investors should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and should not
consider the risks described above and in Item 1A to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. The
Company does not undertake to publicly update any forward-looking statement that may be made from time to time, whether as a
result of new information or future events or developments.Part I
Item 1. Business
General
Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries (the Company) have approximately 131,900 employees worldwide engaged in the
research and development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of products in the healthcare field. Johnson & Johnson is a
holding company, with operating companies conducting business in virtually all countries of the world. The Company’s primary
focus is products related to human health and well-being. Johnson & Johnson was incorporated in the State of New Jersey
in 1887.
The Executive Committee of Johnson & Johnson is the principal management group responsible for the strategic operations and
allocation of the resources of the Company. This Committee oversees and coordinates the activities of the Company's two
business segments: Innovative Medicine (previously referred to as Pharmaceutical) and MedTech. Within the strategic parameters
provided by the Committee, senior management groups at U.S. and international operating companies are each responsible for
their own strategic plans and the day-to-day operations of those companies. Each subsidiary within the business segments is, with
limited exceptions, managed by residents of the country where located.
Segments of business
Following the completion of the separation of the Consumer Health business (Kenvue) in August 2023, the Company is now
organized into two business segments: Innovative Medicine and MedTech. Additional information required by this item is
incorporated herein by reference to the narrative and tabular descriptions of segments and operating results under: Item 7.
Management’s discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition of this Report; and Note 17 Segments of
business and geographic areas of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report.
Innovative Medicine
The Innovative Medicine segment is focused on the following therapeutic areas: Immunology (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic
arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease and psoriasis), Infectious Diseases (e.g., HIV/AIDS), Neuroscience (e.g., mood disorders,
neurodegenerative disorders and schizophrenia), Oncology (e.g., prostate cancer, hematologic malignancies, lung cancer and
bladder cancer), Cardiovascular and Metabolism (e.g., thrombosis, diabetes and macular degeneration) and Pulmonary
Hypertension (e.g., Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension). Medicines in this segment are distributed directly to retailers, wholesalers,
distributors, hospitals and healthcare professionals for prescription use. Key products in the Innovative Medicine segment include:
REMICADE (infliximab), a treatment for a number of immune-mediated inflammatory diseases; SIMPONI (golimumab), a
subcutaneous treatment for adults with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis, active psoriatic arthritis, active ankylosing
spondylitis and moderately active to severely active ulcerative colitis; SIMPONI ARIA (golimumab), an intravenous treatment for
adults with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis, active psoriatic arthritis and active ankylosing spondylitis and active
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA) in people 2 years of age and older; STELARA (ustekinumab), a treatment for adults
and children with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, for adults with active psoriatic arthritis, for adults with moderately to
severely active Crohn's disease and treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis; TREMFYA (guselkumab), a
treatment for adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis and active psoriatic arthritis; EDURANT (rilpivirine), PREZISTA
(darunavir) and PREZCOBIX/REZOLSTA (darunavir/cobicistat), antiretroviral medicines for the treatment of human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in combination with other antiretroviral products and SYMTUZA (darunavir/cobicistat/emtricitabine
/tenofovir alafenamide), a once-daily single tablet regimen for the treatment of HIV; CONCERTA (methylphenidate HCl) extended-
release tablets CII, a treatment for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder; INVEGA SUSTENNA/XEPLION (paliperidone palmitate),
for the treatment of schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder in adults; INVEGA TRINZA/TREVICTA (paliperidone palmitate), for
the treatment of schizophrenia in patients after they have been adequately treated with INVEGA SUSTENNA for at least four
months; SPRAVATO (Esketamine), a nasal spray, used along with an oral antidepressant, to treat adults with treatment-resistant
depression (TRD) and depressive symptoms in adults with major depressive disorder (MDD) with suicidal thoughts or actions;
CARVYKTI (ciltacabtagene autoleucel), a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T-cell therapy for the treatment of patients withrelapsed/refractory multiple myeloma; ZYTIGA (abiraterone
2023 Annual Report 1acetate), a treatment for patients with prostate cancer; ERLEADA (apalutamide), a next- generation androgen receptor inhibitor for
the treatment of patients with prostate cancer; IMBRUVICA (ibrutinib), a treatment for certain B-cell malignancies, or blood cancers
and chronic graft versus host disease; DARZALEX (daratumumab), a treatment for multiple myeloma; DARZALEX FASPRO
(daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj), a treatment for multiple myeloma and light chain (AL) Amyloidosis; XARELTO (rivaroxaban),
an oral anticoagulant for the prevention of deep vein thrombosis (DVT), which may lead to pulmonary embolism (PE) in patients
undergoing hip or knee replacement surgery, to reduce the risk of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial
fibrillation, and for the treatment and reduction of risk of recurrence of DVT and PE to reduce the risk of major cardiovascular
events in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) and peripheral artery disease (PAD), for the treatment and secondary
prevention of thromboembolism in pediatric patients, and for thromboprophylaxis in pediatric patients following the Fontan
procedure; OPSUMIT (macitentan) as monotherapy or in combination, indicated for the long-term treatment of pulmonary arterial
hypertension (PAH); UPTRAVI (selexipag), the only approved oral and intravenous, selective IP receptor agonist targeting a
prostacyclin pathway in PAH. Many of these medicines were developed in collaboration with strategic partners or are licensed from
other companies and maintain active lifecycle development programs.
MedTech
The MedTech segment includes a broad portfolio of products used in the Interventional Solutions, Orthopaedics, Surgery and
Vision categories. Interventional Solutions include electrophysiology products (Biosense Webster) to treat heart rhythm disorders,
the heart recovery portfolio (Abiomed) which includes technologies to treat severe coronary artery disease requiring high-risk PCI
or AMI cardiogenic shock, and Neurovascular care (Cerenovus) that treats hemorrhagic and ischemic stroke. The Orthopaedics
portfolio (DePuy Synthes) includes products and enabling technologies that support Hips, Knees, Trauma, and Spine, Sports &
Other. The Surgery portfolios include advanced and general surgery technologies (Ethicon), as well as solutions that focus on
breast aesthetics (Mentor), and Ear, Nose and Throat (Acclarent) procedures. Johnson & Johnson Vision products include
ACUVUE Brand contact lenses and TECNIS intraocular lenses for cataract surgery. These products are distributed to wholesalers,
hospitals and retailers, and used predominantly in the professional fields by physicians, nurses, hospitals, eye care professionals
and clinics.
Geographic areas
Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries (the Company) have approximately 131,900 employees worldwide engaged in the
research and development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of products in the healthcare field. The Company conducts
business in virtually all countries of the world with the primary focus on products related to human health and well-being.
The products made and sold in the international business include many of those described above under Segments of Business –
Innovative Medicine and MedTech. However, the principal markets, products and methods of distribution in the international
business vary with the country and the culture. The products sold in international business include those developed in the U.S. and
by subsidiaries abroad.
Investments and activities in some countries outside the U.S. are subject to higher risks than comparable U.S. activities because
the investment and commercial climate may be influenced by financial instability in international economies, restrictive economic
policies and political and legal system uncertainties.
Raw materials
Raw materials essential to the Company's business are generally readily available from multiple sources. Where there are
exceptions, the temporary unavailability of those raw materials would not likely have a material adverse effect on the financial
results of the Company.
Patents
The Company's subsidiaries have made a practice of obtaining patent protection on their products and processes where possible.
They own, or are licensed under, a significant number of patents in the U.S. and other countries relating to their products, product
uses, formulations and manufacturing processes, which in the aggregate are believed to be of material importance to the Company
in the operation of its businesses. The Company’s subsidiaries face patent challenges from third parties, including challenges
seeking to manufacture and market generic and biosimilar versions of the Company's key
2pharmaceutical products prior to expiration of the applicable patents covering those products. Significant legal proceedings and
claims involving the Company's patent and other intellectual property are described in Note 19 Legal proceedings—Intellectual
property of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report.
Sales of the Company’s largest product, STELARA (ustekinumab) accounted for approximately 12.8% of the Company's total
revenues for fiscal 2023. Accordingly, the patents related to this product are believed to be material to the Company. Janssen
Biotech, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, owns patents specifically related to STELARA. The latest expiring
United States composition of matter patent expired in 2023. As a result of settlements and other agreements with third parties, the
Company does not anticipate the launch of a biosimilar version of STELARA before January 1, 2025 in the United States. The
latest expiring European composition of matter patent (Supplementary Protection Certificate) expires in 2024.
Sales of the Company’s second largest product, collectively DARZALEX (daratumumab) and DARZALEX FASPRO (daratumumab
and hyaluronidase-fihj), accounted for approximately 11.4% of the Company's total revenues for fiscal 2023. Accordingly, the
patents related to this product are believed to be material to the Company. Genmab A/S owns two patent families related to
DARZALEX, and Janssen Biotech, Inc. has an exclusive license to those patent families. The two patent families both expire in the
United States in 2029, and in Europe, compound patent protection in select countries extends to 2031/2032. Janssen Biotech, Inc.
owns a separate patent portfolio related to DARZALEX FASPRO.
Trademarks
The Company’s subsidiaries have made a practice of selling their products under trademarks and of obtaining protection for these
trademarks by all available means. These trademarks are protected by registration in the U.S. and other countries where such
products are marketed. The Company considers these trademarks in the aggregate to be of material importance in the operation
of its businesses.
Seasonality
Worldwide sales do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality; however, spending has typically been heavier in the fourth
quarter of each year than in other quarters. This reflects increased spending decisions, principally for research and development
activity.
Competition
In all of their product lines, the Company's subsidiaries compete with companies both locally and globally. Competition exists in all
product lines without regard to the number and size of the competing companies involved. Competition in research, both internally
and externally sourced, involving the development and the improvement of new and existing products and processes, is
particularly significant. The development of new and innovative products, as well as protecting the underlying intellectual property
of the Company’s product portfolio, is important to the Company's success in all areas of its business. The competitive
environment requires substantial investments in continuing research.
Environment
The Company is subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions. The
Company believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations. The
Company’s compliance with these requirements is not expected to have a material effect upon its capital expenditures, cash flows,
earnings or competitive position.
2023 Annual Report 3Regulation
The Company’s businesses are subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in which operations are
conducted, and the general trend is toward increasingly stringent regulation and enforcement. The Company is subject to costly
and complex U.S. and foreign laws and governmental regulations and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely
affect the Company's financial condition and business operations. In the U.S., the pharmaceutical product and medical technology
industries have long been subject to regulation by various federal and state agencies, primarily as to product safety, efficacy,
manufacturing, advertising, labeling and safety reporting. The exercise of broad regulatory powers by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (the U.S. FDA) continues to result in increases in the amounts of testing and documentation required for U.S. FDA
approval of new drugs and devices and a corresponding increase in the expense of product introduction. Similar trends are also
evident in major markets outside of the U.S.
The new medical device regulatory framework and the evolving privacy, data localization, and emerging cyber security laws and
regulations around the world are examples of such increased regulation. Within the U.S., an increasing number of U.S. States
have enacted comprehensive privacy laws and federal regulators (e.g., the U.S. FDA, FTC and HHS) continue to stress the
intersection of health and privacy as a compliance and enforcement priority. In the EU, multiple directives and laws (including
NIS2, EHDS, the Data Act, the Cyber Resilience Act, and the AI Act) are rapidly changing privacy and cybersecurity compliance
requirements while introducing new enforcement risks. In addition, China has introduced broad personal information protection and
data security regulations, with more anticipated, thereby increasing China’s scrutiny of company compliance and data transfer
practices. With other jurisdictions enacting similar privacy laws, local data protection authorities will force greater accountability on
the collection, access and use of personal data in the healthcare industry. These laws can also restrict transfers of data across
borders, potentially impacting how data-driven health care solutions are developed and deployed globally in a compliant manner.
Moreover, as a result of the broad scale release and availability of Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies such as generative AI, a
global trend towards more comprehensive and nuanced regulation (e.g., White House’s Executive Order on the Safe, Secure, and
Trustworthy Development and Use of Artificial Intelligence; the EU AI Act) to ensure the ethical use, privacy, and security of AI is
underway that includes standards for transparency, accountability, and fairness, which will require compliance developments or
enhancements.
The regulatory agencies under whose purview the Company operates have administrative powers that may subject it to actions
such as product withdrawals, recalls, seizure of products and other civil and criminal sanctions. In some cases, the Company’s
subsidiaries may deem it advisable to initiate product recalls regardless of whether it has been required or directed to.
The U.S. FDA and regulatory agencies around the globe are also increasing their enforcement activities. If the U.S. FDA were to
conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our pharmaceutical products or medical
technologies are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the U.S. FDA could ban such products, detain or seize
adulterated or misbranded products, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such products, refuse to grant pending
applications for marketing authorization or require certificates of foreign governments for exports, and/or require us to notify health
professionals and others that the products present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The U.S. FDA may
also assess civil or criminal penalties against us, our officers or employees and impose operating restrictions on a company-wide
basis, or enjoin and/or restrain certain conduct resulting in violations of applicable law. The U.S. FDA may also recommend
prosecution to the U.S. Department of Justice. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from
effectively marketing and selling our products and limit our ability to obtain future clearances or approvals, and could result in a
substantial modification to our business practices and operations. Equivalent enforcement mechanisms exist in different countries
in which we conduct business.
The costs of human healthcare have been and continue to be a subject of study, investigation and regulation by governmental
agencies and legislative bodies around the world. In the U.S., attention has been focused by states, regulatory agencies and
Congress on prices, profits, overutilization and the quality and costs of healthcare generally. Laws and regulations have been
enacted to require adherence to strict compliance standards and prevent fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. There is
increased focus on interactions and financial relationships between healthcare companies and healthcare providers. Various state
and federal transparency laws and regulations require disclosures of payments and other transfers of value made to certain
healthcare practitioners, including physicians, teaching hospitals, and certain non-physician practitioners. Federal and foreign laws
governing international business practices require strict compliance with anti-bribery standards and certain prohibitions with respect
to payments to any foreign government official. Payors and Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs) are a potent force in the
marketplace, and increased attention is being paid to the impact of PBM practices on healthcare cost and access in the U.S.
Our business has been and continues to be affected by federal and state legislation that alters the pricing, coverage, andreimbursement landscape. At the federal level, in August 2022, President Biden signed into law the Inflation Reduction Act
4(IRA), which includes provisions that effectively authorize the government to establish prices for certain high-spend single-source
drugs and biologics reimbursed by the Medicare program, starting in 2026 for Medicare Part D drugs and 2028 for Medicare Part
B drugs. On August 29, 2023, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) published the first “Selected Drug” list, which
includes XARELTO and STELARA as well as IMBRUVICA, which is developed in collaboration and co-commercialized in the U.S.
with Pharmacyclics LLC, an AbbVie company. The Selected Drug list also included other medicines targeting disease states that
are prevalent in the Medicare population. There remains uncertainty, however, regarding how the federal government will establish
prices for the selected products, as the IRA specifies a ceiling price but not a minimum price. In any event, we anticipate that the
selected products will be subjected to a government-established price for the Medicare population.
The IRA also contains provisions that impose rebates if certain prices increase at a rate that outpaces the rate of inflation,
beginning October 1, 2022, for Medicare Part D drugs and January 1, 2023, for Medicare Part B drugs. Separate IRA provisions
redesign the Medicare Part D benefit in various ways, including by shifting a greater portion of costs to manufacturers within
certain coverage phases and replacing the Part D coverage gap discount program with a new manufacturer discounting program.
Failure to comply with IRA provisions may subject manufacturers to various penalties, including civil monetary penalties.
In July 2023, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Janssen) filed litigation against the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
as well as the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services challenging the constitutionality of the Inflation Reduction Act’s (IRA)
Medicare Drug Price Negotiation Program. The litigation requests a declaration that the IRA violates Janssen’s rights under the
First Amendment and the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution and therefore that Janssen is not subject to the IRA’s mandatory
pricing scheme. The impact of the IRA on our business and the broader pharmaceutical industry remains uncertain, as litigation
filed by Janssen and other pharmaceutical companies remains ongoing and CMS has yet to publicly announce the maximum fair
price for each of the selected drugs.
Additionally, we expect continued scrutiny on drug pricing and government price reporting from Congress, agencies, and other
bodies at the federal and state levels, which may result in additional regulations or other mechanisms to increase pricing
transparency and controls.
There are a number of additional bills pending in Congress and healthcare reform proposals at the state level that would affect
drug pricing, including in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. This changing legal landscape has both positive and negative
impacts on the U.S. healthcare industry with much remaining uncertain as to how various provisions of federal and state law, and
potential modification or repeal of these laws, will ultimately affect the industry. The IRA and any other federal or state legislative
change could affect the pricing and market conditions for our products.
In addition, business practices in the healthcare industry have come under increased scrutiny, particularly in the U.S., by
government agencies and state attorneys general, and resulting investigations and prosecutions carry the risk of significant civil
and criminal penalties. Of note is the increased enforcement activity by data protection authorities in various jurisdictions,
particularly in the European Union, where significant fines have been levied on companies for data breaches, violations of privacy
requirements, and unlawful cross-border data transfers. In the U.S., the Federal Trade Commission has stepped up enforcement of
data privacy with several significant settlements (including settlements concerning the downstream sharing of personal information
and use and disclosure of personal health data) and there have been a material increase in class-action lawsuits linked to the
collection and use of biometric data and use of tracking technologies.
Further, the Company relies on global supply chains, and production and distribution processes, that are complex, and subject to
increasing regulatory requirements that may affect sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in the Company's products.
These processes also are subject to complex and lengthy regulatory approvals.
2023 Annual Report 5Employees and human capital management
As of December 31, 2023, the number of employees was approximately:
2023
Employees 1 134,400
Full-time equivalent (FTE) positions 2 131,900
1 “Employee” is defined as an individual working full-time or part-time, excluding fixed term employees, interns and co-op employees. Employee
data may not include full population from more recently acquired companies and individuals on long-term disability are excluded. Contingent
workers, contractors and subcontractors are also excluded.
2 FTE represents the total number of full-time equivalent positions and does not reflect the total number of individual employees as some work
part-time.
Employees by region (in percentages)
6Strategy
The Company believes that its employees are critical to its continued success and are an essential element of its long-term
strategy. Management is responsible for ensuring that its policies and processes reflect and reinforce the Company's desired
corporate culture, including policies and processes related to strategy, risk management, and ethics and compliance. The
Company’s human capital management strategy is built on three fundamental focus areas:
• Attracting and recruiting the best talent
• Developing and retaining talent
• Empowering and inspiring talent
Underpinning these focus areas are ongoing efforts to cultivate and foster a culture built on diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI),
innovation, health, well-being and safety, where the Company's employees are encouraged to succeed both professionally and
personally while helping the Company achieve its business goals.
Culture and employee engagement
At the Company, employees are guided by Our Credo which sets forth the Company's responsibilities to patients, consumers,
customers, healthcare professionals, employees, communities and shareholders. Employees worldwide must adhere to the
Company’s Code of Business Conduct which sets basic requirements and serves as a foundation for the Company policies,
procedures and guidelines, all of which provide additional guidance on expected employee behaviors in every market where it
operates. The Company conducts global surveys that offer its employees the ability to provide feedback and valuable insight to
help address potential human resources risks and identify opportunities to improve. In 2023, 94% of global employees across 76
countries participated in Our Credo Survey which was offered in 36 languages.
Growth and development
To lead in the changing healthcare landscape, it is crucial that the Company continue to attract and retain top talent. In 2023, the
Company's voluntary turnover rate was 7%. The Company believes that its employees must be equipped with the right knowledge
and skills and be provided with opportunities to grow and develop in their careers. Accordingly, professional development programs
and educational resources are available to all employees. The Company's objective is to foster a learning culture that helps shape
each person’s unique career path while creating a robust pipeline of talent to deliver on the Company’s long-term strategies. In
furtherance of this objective, the Company deploys a global approach to ensure development is for everyone, regardless of where
they are on their career journey. To prioritize learning, the Company recently held Johnson & Johnson's first Global Learning Day.
Employees were encouraged to set aside a full day to explore skill-building courses across five areas: leadership, business skills,
digital upskilling, DEI, and well-being, on J&J Learn, the Company's new learning platform.
Diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI)
The Company is committed to workplace diversity and to cultivating, fostering, and advancing a culture of equity and inclusion. The
Company’s evidenced-based global enterprise Diversity, Equity and Inclusion strategy recognizes how DEI accelerates the
Company's ability to meet the changing needs of the communities the Company serves in, as outlined in Our Credo. The
Company’s DEI Vision is: Be yourself, change the world . The Company's DEI Mission is: Make diversity, equity and inclusion
how we work everyday . The Company's enterprise DEI Strategy is aligned to the DEI Vision and Mission and rests on four
core pillars:
• Build a workforce of individuals with diverse backgrounds, cultures, abilities and perspectives
• Foster a culture of inclusion where every individual belongs
• Transform talent and business processes to achieve equitable opportunities for all
• Drive innovation and growth with our business to serve diverse markets around the world
The Company's DEI strategy is guided by internal and external insights, global best practices and continual employee feedback
and recognizes that while diversity changes by location, inclusion is the same everywhere.
2023 Annual Report 7Compensation and benefits
As part of the Company's total rewards philosophy, the Company offers competitive compensation and benefits to attract and
retain top talent. The Company is committed to fairness and equitable treatment in its compensation and benefits for employees at
all levels. The Company observes legal minimum wage provisions and exceeds them where possible. The Company's total
rewards offerings include an array of programs to support its employees' well-being, including annual performance incentive
opportunities, pension and retirement savings programs, health and welfare benefits, paid time off, leave programs, flexible work
schedules and employee assistance programs. In recognition of the Company’s commitment to help employees balance their
personal and professional responsibilities, the Company enhanced its caregiver, bereavement, and volunteer paid leave benefits,
effective July 2023.
Health, wellness and safety
The Company’s investment in employee health, well-being and safety is built on its conviction that advancing health for humanity
starts with advancing the health of its employees. With the right awareness, focus, practices and tools, the Company ensures that
all its employees around the world, as well as temporary contractors and visitors to the Company's sites, can work safely. The
Company has continuously expanded health and well-being programs throughout the Company and across the globe,
incorporating new thinking and technologies to keep its offerings best-in-class and to help employees achieve their personal health
goals. The programs and practices the Company advances for total health—physical, mental, emotional and financial—ensure
employee health protection for emerging health risks. The Company continues to address our employees needs through J&J Flex,
a hybrid model that empowers the Company’s office-based employees to find the right productivity and balance of in-person and
remote work.
Available information
The Company’s main corporate website address is www.jnj.com . The Company makes its SEC filings available on the Company’s
website at www.investor.jnj.com/financials/sec-filings , as soon as reasonably practicable after having been electronically filed or
furnished to the SEC. The Company's SEC filings are also available at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov .
Investors and the public should note that the Company also announces information at www.factsaboutourprescriptionopioids.com ,
www.factsabouttalc.com and www.LLTManagementInformation.com . We use these websites to communicate with investors and
the public about our products, litigation and other matters. It is possible that the information we post to these websites could be
deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors and others interested in the Company to review the
information posted to these websites in conjunction with www.jnj.com , the Company's SEC filings, press releases, public
conference calls and webcasts.
In addition, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, By-Laws, the written charters of the Audit Committee, the
Compensation & Benefits Committee, the Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee, the Regulatory Compliance &
Sustainability Committee, the Science & Technology Committee and any special committee of the Board of Directors and the
Company’s Principles of Corporate Governance, Code of Business Conduct (for employees), Code of Business Conduct & Ethics
for Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers, and other corporate governance materials, are available at
www.investor.jnj.com/governance/corporate-governance-overview on the Company's website and will be provided without charge to
any shareholder submitting a written request, as provided above. The information on www.jnj.com ,
www.factsaboutourprescriptionopioids.com , www.factsabouttalc.com and www.LLTManagementInformation.com is not, and will not
be deemed, a part of this Report or incorporated into any other filings the Company makes with the SEC.
8Item 1A. Risk factors
An investment in the Company’s common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. The Company seeks to identify,
manage and mitigate risks to our business, but uncertainties and risks are difficult to predict and many are outside of the
Company’s control and cannot therefore be eliminated. In addition to the other information in this report and the Company’s other
filings with the SEC, investors should consider carefully the factors set forth below. Investors should be aware that it is not possible
to predict or identify all such factors and that the following is not meant to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or
uncertainties. If known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, the Company’s business, results of operations or financial
condition could be adversely affected, potentially in a material way.
Risks related to our business, industry and operations
The Company’s businesses operate in highly competitive product markets and competitive pressures could adversely
affect the Company’s earnings.
The Company faces substantial competition in its two operating segments and in all geographic markets. The Company’s
businesses compete with companies of all sizes on the basis of cost-effectiveness, technological innovations, intellectual property
rights, product performance, real or perceived product advantages, pricing and availability and rate of reimbursement. The
Company also competes with other market participants in securing rights to acquisitions, collaborations and licensing agreements
with third parties. Competition for rights to product candidates and technologies may result in significant investment and acquisition
costs and onerous agreement terms for the Company. Competitors’ development of more effective or less costly products, and/or
their ability to secure patent and other intellectual property rights and successfully market products ahead of the Company, could
negatively impact sales of the Company’s existing products as well as its ability to bring new products to market despite significant
prior investment in the related product development. The Company may also experience operational and financial risk in
connection with acquisitions if we are unable to fully identify potential risks and liabilities associated with acquired businesses or
products, successfully integrate operations and employees, and successfully identify and realize synergies with existing businesses
while containing acquisition-related strain on our management, operations and financial resources.
For the Company’s Innovative Medicine businesses, loss of patent exclusivity for a product often is followed by a substantial
reduction in sales as competitors gain regulatory approval for generic and other competing products and enter the market. Similar
competition can be triggered by the loss of exclusivity for a biological product. For the Company’s MedTech businesses,
technological innovation, product quality, reputation and customer service are especially important to competitiveness.
Development by other companies of new or improved products, processes and technologies could threaten to make the
Company’s products or technologies less desirable, less economical or obsolete. The Company’s business and operations will be
negatively impacted if we are unable to introduce new products or technological advances that are safe, more effective, more
effectively marketed or otherwise outperform those of our competitors.
Interruptions and delays in manufacturing operations could adversely affect the Company’s business, sales
and reputation.
The Company’s manufacturing of products requires the timely delivery of sufficient amounts of complex, high-quality components
and materials. The Company’s subsidiaries operate 61 manufacturing facilities as well as sourcing from thousands of suppliers
around the world. The Company has in the past, and may in the future, face unanticipated interruptions and delays in
manufacturing through its internal or external supply chain. Manufacturing disruptions can occur for many reasons including
regulatory action, production quality deviations or safety issues, labor disputes, labor shortages, site-specific incidents (such as
fires), natural disasters such as hurricanes and other severe weather events, raw material shortages, political unrest, terrorist
attacks and epidemics or pandemics. Such delays and difficulties in manufacturing can result in product shortages, declines in
sales and reputational impact as well as significant remediation and related costs associated with addressing the shortage.
The Company relies on third parties to manufacture and supply certain of our products. Any failure by or loss of a
third-party manufacturer or supplier could result in delays and increased costs, which may adversely affect our business.
The Company relies on third parties to manufacture and supply certain of our raw materials, component parts and products. We
depend on these third-party manufacturers to allocate to us a portion of their manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet our needs,
to produce products of acceptable quality and at acceptable manufacturing yields and to deliver those products to us on a timely
basis and at acceptable prices. However, we cannot guarantee that these third-party manufacturers will be able to meet our
near-term or long-term manufacturing requirements, which could result in lost sales and have an adverse effect on our business.
2023 Annual Report 9Other risks associated with our reliance on third parties to manufacture these products include reliance on the third party for
regulatory compliance and quality assurance, misappropriation of the Company’s intellectual property, limited ability to manage our
inventory, possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party and the possible termination or nonrenewal of the
manufacturing agreement by the third party at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. Moreover, if any of our third- party
manufacturers suffers any damage to facilities, loses benefits under material agreements, experiences power outages, encounters
financial difficulties, is unable to secure necessary raw materials from its suppliers or suffers any other reduction in efficiency, the
Company may experience significant business disruption. In the event of any such disruption, the Company would need to seek
and source other qualified third-party manufacturers, likely resulting in further delays and increased costs which could affect our
business adversely.
Counterfeit versions of our products could harm our patients and have a negative impact on our revenues, earnings,
reputation and business.
Our industry continues to be challenged by the vulnerability of distribution channels to illegal counterfeiting and the presence of
counterfeit products in a growing number of markets and over the Internet. Third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit
versions of our products, which do not meet our rigorous manufacturing and testing standards. To distributors and patients,
counterfeit products may be visually indistinguishable from the authentic version. Counterfeit medicines pose a risk to patient
health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured – often in unregulated, unlicensed, uninspected
and unsanitary sites – as well as the lack of regulation of their contents.
The industry’s failure to mitigate the threat of counterfeit medicines could adversely impact our business and reputation by
impacting patient confidence in our authentic products, potentially resulting in lost sales, product recalls, and an increased threat of
litigation. In addition, diversion of our products from their authorized market into other channels may result in reduced revenues
and negatively affect our profitability.
Global health crises, pandemics, epidemics, or other outbreaks could adversely disrupt or impact certain aspects of the
Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition.
We are subject to risks associated with global health crises, epidemics, pandemics and other outbreaks (such incident(s), a health
crisis or health crises). For example, the COVID-19 pandemic adversely impacted certain aspects of the Company’s business,
results of operations and financial condition, including lower sales and reduced customer demand and usage of certain of our
products. The spread of any health crises may cause the Company to modify its business practices, and take further actions as
may be required by government authorities or as the Company determines are in the best interests of our patients, customers,
employees and business partners under such circumstances. While the Company has robust business continuity plans in place
across our global supply chain network designed to help mitigate the impact of health crises, these efforts may not completely
prevent our business from being adversely affected in the event of a health crisis. Health crises could adversely impact the
Company’s operations, including, among other things, our manufacturing operations, supply chain, third-party suppliers, sales and
marketing, and clinical trial operations. Any of these factors could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial results, and
global economic conditions generally.
Risks related to government regulation and legal proceedings
Global sales in the Company’s Innovative Medicine and MedTech segments may be negatively impacted by healthcare
reforms and increasing pricing pressures.
Sales of the Company’s Innovative Medicine and MedTech products are significantly affected by reimbursements by third- party
payors such as government healthcare programs, private insurance plans and managed care organizations. As part of various
efforts to contain healthcare costs, these payors are putting downward pressure on prices at which products will be reimbursed. In
the U.S., increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, in
part due to continued consolidation among healthcare providers, could result in further pricing pressures. In addition, recent
legislation and ongoing political scrutiny on pricing, coverage and reimbursement could result in additional pricing pressures.
Specifically, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IRA) may subject certain products to government-established pricing, potentially
impose rebates, and subject manufacturers who fail to adhere to the government's interpretations of the law to penalties. Further,
increased third-party utilization of the 340B Federal Drug Discount Program from expanded interpretations of the statute may have
a negative impact on the Company's financial performance. Outside the U.S., numerous major markets, including the EU, United
Kingdom, Japan and China, have pervasive government involvement in funding healthcare and, in that regard, directly or indirectly
impose price controls, limit access to, or reimbursement for, the Company’s products, or reduce the value of its intellectual
p1r0operty protection.We are subject to an increasing number of costly and complex governmental regulations in the countries in which
operations are conducted which may materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and
business operations.
As described in Item 1. Business, the Company is subject to an increasing number of extensive government laws and regulations,
investigations and legal action by national, state and local government agencies in the U.S. and other countries in which it
operates. For example, changes to the U.S. FDA’s timing or requirements for approval or clearance of our products may have a
negative impact on our ability to bring new products to market. New laws and regulations may also impose deadlines on the
Company, or its third-party suppliers, manufacturers or other partners and providers, for which there may be insufficient time to
implement changes to comply with such new regulations and may result in manufacturing delays or other supply chain constraints.
If the Company is unable to identify ways to mitigate these delays or constraints, there may be an adverse effect on sales and
access to our products.
The Company is subject to significant legal proceedings that can result in significant expenses, fines and
reputational damage.
In the ordinary course of business, Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries are subject to numerous claims and lawsuits involving
various issues such as product liability, patent disputes and claims that their product sales, marketing and pricing practices violate
various antitrust, unfair trade practices and/or consumer protection laws. The Company’s more significant legal proceedings are
described in Note 19 Legal proceedings under Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report.
Litigation, in general, and securities, derivative action, class action and multi-district litigation, in particular, can be expensive and
disruptive. Some of these matters may include thousands of plaintiffs, may involve parties seeking large and/or indeterminate
amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages, and may remain unresolved for several years. For example, the Company is a
defendant in numerous lawsuits arising out of the use of body powders containing talc, primarily JOHNSON’S Baby Powder, and
the Company’s sale, manufacturing and marketing of opioids. While the Company believes it has substantial defenses in these
matters, it is not feasible to predict the ultimate outcome of litigation. The Company could in the future be required to pay
significant amounts as a result of settlements or judgments in these matters, potentially in excess of accruals, including matters
where the Company could be held jointly and severally liable among other defendants. The resolution of, or increase in accruals
for, one or more of these matters in any reporting period could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
operations and cash flows for that period. The Company does not purchase third-party product liability insurance; however, the
Company utilizes a wholly owned captive insurance company subject to certain limits.
Product reliability, safety and effectiveness concerns can have significant negative impacts on sales and results of
operations, lead to litigation and cause reputational damage.
Concerns about product safety, whether raised internally or by litigants, regulators or consumer advocates, and whether or not
based on scientific evidence, can result in safety alerts, product recalls, governmental investigations, regulatory action on the part
of the U.S. FDA (or its counterpart in other countries), private claims and lawsuits, payment of fines and settlements, declining
sales and reputational damage. These circumstances can also result in damage to brand image, brand equity and consumer trust
in the Company’s products. Product recalls have in the past, and could in the future, prompt government investigations and
inspections, the shutdown of manufacturing facilities, continued product shortages and related sales declines, significant
remediation costs, reputational damage, possible civil penalties and criminal prosecution.
The Company faces significant regulatory scrutiny, which imposes significant compliance costs and exposes the
Company to government investigations, legal actions and penalties.
The rapid increase in new government laws and regulations imposes significant compliance costs to the Company and a failure of
the Company to timely implement changes to comply with these new laws may expose the Company to investigations, legal
actions or penalties. Regulatory issues regarding compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) (and comparable
quality regulations in foreign countries) by manufacturers of drugs and devices can lead to fines and penalties, product recalls,
product shortages, interruptions in production, delays in new product approvals and litigation. In addition, the marketing, pricing
and sale of the Company’s products are subject to regulation, investigations and legal actions including under the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Medicaid Rebate Program, federal and state false claims acts, state unfair trade practices acts and
consumer protection laws. Scrutiny of healthcare industry business practices by government agencies and state attorneys general
in the U.S., and any resulting investigations and prosecutions, carry risk of significant civil and criminal penalties including, but not
limited to, debarment from participation in government healthcare programs. Any such debarment could have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. The most significant current investigations and litigation brought by
government agencies are described in Note 19 Legal proceedings—Government proceedings under Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report.2023 Annual Report 11Changes in tax laws or exposures to additional tax liabilities could negatively impact the Company’s operating results.
Changes in tax laws or regulations around the world, including in the U.S. and as led by the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, such as the recent enactment by certain EU and non-EU countries, and the anticipated enactment
by additional countries, of a global minimum tax, could negatively impact the Company’s effective tax rate and results of
operations. A change in statutory tax rate or certain international tax provisions in any country would result in the revaluation of the
Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities related to that particular jurisdiction in the period in which the new tax law is enacted.
This change would result in an expense or benefit recorded to the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The Company
closely monitors these proposals as they arise in the countries where it operates. Changes to tax laws or regulations may occur at
any time, and any related expense or benefit recorded may be material to the fiscal quarter and year in which the law change is
enacted.
See Note 8 Income taxes under Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report for additional
information.
The Company conducts business and files tax returns in numerous countries and is addressing tax audits and disputes with many
tax authorities. In connection with various government initiatives, companies are required to disclose more information to tax
authorities on operations around the world, which may lead to greater audit scrutiny of profits earned in other countries. The
Company regularly assesses the likely outcomes of its tax audits and disputes to determine the appropriateness of its tax
reserves. However, any tax authority could take a position on tax treatment that is contrary to the Company’s expectations, which
could result in tax liabilities in excess of reserves.
Risks related to our intellectual property
The Company faces increased challenges to intellectual property rights central to its business.
The Company owns or licenses a significant number of patents and other proprietary rights relating to its products and
manufacturing processes. These rights are essential to the Company’s businesses and materially important to the Company’s
results of operations. Public policy, both within and outside the U.S., has become increasingly unfavorable toward intellectual
property rights. The Company cannot be certain that it will obtain adequate patent protection for new products and technologies in
the United States and other important markets or that such protections, once granted, will last as long as originally anticipated.
Competitors routinely challenge the validity or extent of the Company’s owned or licensed patents and proprietary rights through
litigation, interferences, oppositions and other proceedings, such as inter partes review (IPR) proceedings before the United States
Patent & Trademark Office (USPTO). These proceedings absorb resources and can be protracted as well as unpredictable. In
addition, challenges that the Company’s products infringe the patents of third parties could result in an injunction and/or the need
to pay past damages and future royalties and adversely affect the competitive position and sales of the products in question.
The Company has faced increasing patent challenges from third parties seeking to manufacture and market generic and biosimilar
versions of the Company’s key pharmaceutical products prior to expiration of the applicable patents covering those products. In the
U.S., manufacturers of generic versions of innovative human pharmaceutical products may challenge the validity, or claim
non-infringement, of innovator products through the Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, process with the U.S. FDA and
related ANDA litigation. The Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act (BPCIA), enacted in 2010, which created a new
regulatory pathway for the approval by the U.S. FDA of biosimilar alternatives to innovator-developed biological products, also
created mechanisms for biosimilar applicants to challenge the patents on the innovator biologics. The IPR process with the
USPTO is also being used by competitors to challenge patents asserted in litigation.
In the event the Company is not successful in defending its patents against such challenges, or upon the “at-risk” launch by the
generic or biosimilar firm of its product, the Company can lose a major portion of revenues for the referenced product in a very
short period of time. Current legal proceedings involving the Company’s patents and other intellectual property rights are described
in Note 19 Legal proceedings—Intellectual property under Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of
this Report.
12Risks related to product development, regulatory approval
and commercialization
Significant challenges or delays in the Company’s innovation, development and implementation of new products,
technologies and indications could have an adverse impact on the Company’s long-term success.
The Company’s continued growth and success depends on its ability to innovate and develop new and differentiated products and
services that address the evolving healthcare needs of patients, providers and consumers. Development of successful products
and technologies is also necessary to offset revenue losses when the Company’s existing products lose market share due to
various factors such as competition and loss of patent exclusivity. New products introduced within the past five years accounted for
approximately 25% of 2023 sales. The Company cannot be certain when or whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise
acquire companies, products and technologies, whether particular product candidates will be granted regulatory approval, and, if
approved, whether the products will be commercially successful.
The Company pursues product development through internal research and development as well as through collaborations,
acquisitions, joint ventures and licensing or other arrangements with third parties. In all of these contexts, developing new
products, particularly pharmaceutical and biotechnology products and medical devices, requires significant investment of resources
over many years. Only a very few biopharmaceutical research and development programs result in commercially viable products.
The process depends on many factors including the ability to: discern patients’ and healthcare providers’ future needs; develop
promising new compounds, strategies and technologies; achieve successful clinical trial results; secure effective intellectual
property protection; obtain regulatory approvals on a timely basis; and, if and when they reach the market, successfully
differentiate the Company’s products from competing products and approaches to treatment. New products or enhancements to
existing products may not be accepted quickly or significantly in the marketplace due to product and price competition, changes in
customer preferences or healthcare purchasing patterns, resistance by healthcare providers or uncertainty over third-party
reimbursement. Even following initial regulatory approval, the success of a product can be adversely impacted by safety and
efficacy findings in larger real-world patient populations, as well as market entry of competitive products.
The Company leverages the use of data science, machine learning and other forms of AI and emerging technologies across
varying parts of its business and operations, and the introduction and incorporation of AI may result in unintended consequences
or other new or expanded risks and liabilities. AI technology is continuously evolving, and the AI technologies we develop and
adopt may become obsolete earlier than planned. Our investments in these technologies may not result in the benefits we
anticipate or enable us to obtain or maintain a competitive advantage. The application of machine learning and AI in our business
is emerging and evolving alongside new laws and regulations that may entail significant costs or ultimately limit our ability to
continue the use of these technologies. These technologies also carry inherent risks related to data privacy and security further
described below.
Risks related to financial and economic market conditions
The Company faces a variety of financial, economic, legal, social and political risks associated with conducting
business internationally.
The Company’s extensive operations and business activity throughout the world are accompanied by certain financial, economic,
legal, social and political risks, including those listed below.
Foreign currency exchange : In fiscal 2023, approximately 45% of the Company’s sales occurred outside of the U.S., with
approximately 24% in Europe, 5% in the Western Hemisphere, excluding the U.S., and 16% in the Asia-Pacific and Africa region.
Changes in non-U.S. currencies relative to the U.S. dollar impact the Company’s revenues and expenses. While the Company
uses financial instruments to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates on its cash flows, unhedged exposures
continue to be subject to currency fluctuations. In addition, the weakening or strengthening of the U.S. dollar may result in
significant favorable or unfavorable translation effects when the operating results of the Company’s non-U.S. business activity are
translated into U.S. dollars.
Inflation and currency devaluation risks : The Company faces challenges in maintaining profitability of operations in economies
experiencing high inflation rates. Specifically, the Company has accounted for operations in Argentina, Turkey and Venezuela as
highly inflationary, as the prior three-year cumulative inflation rate surpassed 100%. While the Company strives to maintain profit
margins in these areas through cost reduction programs, productivity improvements and periodic price increases, it mightexperience operating losses as a result of continued inflation. In addition, the impact of currency devaluations in
2023 Annual Report 13countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant currency exchange fluctuations could negatively impact the Company’s
operating results.
Illegal importation of pharmaceutical products : The illegal importation of pharmaceutical products from countries where
government price controls or other market dynamics result in lower prices may adversely affect the Company’s sales and
profitability in the U.S. and other countries in which the Company operates. With the exception of limited quantities of prescription
drugs for personal use, foreign imports of pharmaceutical products are illegal under current U.S. law. However, the volume of
illegal imports continues to rise as the ability of patients and other customers to obtain the lower-priced imports has grown
significantly.
Anti-bribery and other regulations : The Company is subject to various federal and foreign laws that govern its international
business practices with respect to payments to government officials. Those laws include the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
(FCPA), which prohibits U.S. publicly traded companies from promising, offering, or giving anything of value to foreign officials with
the corrupt intent of influencing the foreign official for the purpose of helping the Company obtain or retain business or gain any
improper advantage. The Company’s business is heavily regulated and therefore involves significant interaction with foreign
officials. Also, in many countries outside the U.S., the healthcare providers who prescribe human pharmaceuticals are employed
by the government and the purchasers of human pharmaceuticals are government entities; therefore, the Company’s interactions
with these prescribers and purchasers are subject to regulation under the FCPA. In addition to the U.S. application and
enforcement of the FCPA, various jurisdictions in which the Company operates have laws and regulations, including the U.K.
Bribery Act 2010, aimed at preventing and penalizing corrupt and anticompetitive behavior. Enforcement activities under these laws
could subject the Company to additional administrative and legal proceedings and actions, which could include claims for civil
penalties, criminal sanctions, and administrative remedies, including exclusion from healthcare programs.
Other financial, economic, legal, social and political risks . Other risks inherent in conducting business globally include:
• local and regional economic environments and policies in the markets that we serve, including interest rates, monetary policy,
inflation, economic growth, recession, commodity prices, and currency controls or other limitations on the ability to expatriate
cash;
• protective economic policies taken by governments, such as trade protection measures, increased antitrust reporting
requirements and enforcement activity, and import/export licensing requirements;
• compliance with local regulations and laws including, in some countries, regulatory requirements restricting the Company’s
ability to manufacture or sell its products in the relevant market;
• diminished protection of intellectual property and contractual rights in certain jurisdictions;
• potential nationalization or expropriation of the Company’s foreign assets;
• political or social upheavals, economic instability, repression, or human rights issues; and
• geopolitical events, including natural disasters, disruptions to markets due to war, armed conflict, terrorism, epidemics
or pandemics.
Due to the international nature of the Company's business, geopolitical or economic changes or events, including global
tensions and war, could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.
As described above, the Company has extensive operations and business activity throughout the world. Global tensions, conflict
and/or war among any of the countries in which we conduct business or distribute our products may result in foreign currency
volatility, decreased demand for our products in affected countries, and challenges to our global supply chain related to increased
costs of materials and other inputs for our products and suppliers. Most recently, we have experienced, and expect to continue to
experience, impacts to the Company's business resulting from the Russia-Ukraine war, rising conflict in the Middle East as well as
increasing tensions between the U.S. and China. In response to heightened conflict, such as the Russia-Ukraine war, governments
may impose export controls and broad financial and economic sanctions. Our business and operations may be further impacted by
the imposition of trade protection measures or other policies adopted by any country that favor domestic companies and
technologies over foreign competitors. Additional sanctions or other measures may be imposed by the global community, including
but not limited to limitations on our ability to file, prosecute and maintain patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights.
Furthermore, in some countries, such as in Russia, action may be taken that allows companies and individuals to exploit
inventions owned by patent holders from the United States and many other countries without consent or compensation and we
may not be able to prevent third parties from practicing the Company's inventions in Russia or from selling or importing products in
and into Russia.
14Weak financial performance, failure to maintain a satisfactory credit rating or disruptions in the financial markets could
adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets.
We currently maintain investment grade credit ratings with Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services.
Rating agencies routinely evaluate us, and their ratings of our long-term and short-term debt are based on a number of factors.
Any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency, whether as a result of our actions or factors which are beyond our
control, can increase the cost of borrowing under any indebtedness we may incur, reduce market capacity for our commercial
paper or require the posting of additional collateral under our derivative contracts. There can be no assurance that we will be able
to maintain our credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any
announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade, may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and
access to capital markets.
Other risks
Our business depends on our ability to recruit and retain talented, highly skilled employees and a diverse workforce.
Our continued growth requires us to recruit and retain talented employees representing diverse backgrounds, experiences, and
skill sets. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive and our ability to compete
depends on our ability to hire, develop and motivate highly skilled personnel in all areas of our organization. Maintaining our brand
and reputation, as well as a diverse, equitable and inclusive work environment enables us to attract top talent. If we are less
successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain highly skilled workers and key leaders, our ability to develop and deliver
successful products and services may be adversely affected. In addition, effective succession planning is important to our
long-term success. Any unsuccessful implementation of our succession plans or failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge
and smooth transitions involving key employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.
Climate change or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change may negatively affect our business
and results of operations.
Climate change resulting from increased concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere could
present risks to our operations, including an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and
severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. Natural disasters and extreme weather conditions, such as a hurricane, tornado,
earthquake, wildfire or flooding, may pose physical risks to our facilities and disrupt the operation of our supply chain. The impacts
of the changing climate on water resources may result in water scarcity, limiting our ability to access sufficient high-quality water in
certain locations, which may increase operational costs.
Concern over climate change may also result in new or additional legal or regulatory requirements designed to reduce greenhouse
gas emissions and/or mitigate the effects of climate change on the environment. If such laws or regulations are more stringent
than current legal or regulatory obligations, we may experience disruption in, or an increase in the costs associated with sourcing,
manufacturing and distribution of our products, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial
condition. Further, the impacts of climate change have an influence on customer preferences, and failure to provide climate-friendly
products could potentially result in loss of market share.
An information security incident, including a cybersecurity breach, could have a negative impact on the Company’s
business or reputation.
To meet business objectives, the Company relies on both internal information technology (IT) systems and networks, and those of
third parties and their vendors, to process and store sensitive data, including confidential research, business plans, financial
information, intellectual property, and personal data that may be subject to legal protection, and ensure the continuity of the
Company’s supply chain and operations. The extensive information security and cybersecurity threats, which affect companies
globally, pose a risk to the security and availability of these systems and networks, including customer products that are connected
to or rely on such systems and networks, and the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the Company’s sensitive data. The
Company assesses these threats and makes investments to increase internal protection, detection, and response capabilities, as
well as ensure the Company’s third-party providers have required capabilities and controls, to address this risk. Because of the
frequently changing attack techniques, along with the increased volume and sophistication of the attacks, there is the potential for
the Company to be adversely impacted. This impact could result in reputational, competitive, operational or other business harm
as well as financial costs and regulatory action. Also, increasing use of AI could increase these risks. The Company maintains
cybersecurity insurance in the event of an information security or cyber incident; however, the coverage may not be sufficient to
cover all financial, legal, business or reputational losses.2023 Annual Report 15As a result of increased global tensions, the Company expects there will continue to be, an increased risk of information security
or cybersecurity incidents, including cyberattacks perpetrated by adversaries of countries where the Company maintains
operations. Given the potential sophistication of these attacks, the Company may not be able to address the threat of information
security or cybersecurity incidents proactively or implement adequate preventative measures and we may not be able to detect
and address any such disruption or security breach promptly, or at all, which could adversely affect our business, results of
operations or financial condition. Moreover, these threats could also impact our third-party partners resulting in compromise of the
Company's IT systems, networks and data which could negatively affect the Company.
A breach of privacy laws or unauthorized access, loss or misuse of personal data could have a negative impact on the
Company’s business or reputation.
The Company is subject to privacy and data protection laws across the globe that impose broad compliance obligations on the
collection, use, storage, access, transfer and protection of personal data. Breach of such requirements could result in substantial
fines, penalties, private right of actions, claims and damage to our reputation and business. New privacy laws are expected in
other territories, together with greater privacy enforcement by governmental authorities globally, particularly on data localization
requirements and international data flows. The Company has established privacy compliance programs and controls that our
businesses worldwide are required to comply with, but with many technology and data-driven initiatives being prioritized across the
Company and involving multiple vendors and third parties, there are potential risks of controls imposed on cross border data flows,
unauthorized access, and loss of personal data through internal and external threats that could impact our business operations
and research activities.
The Company may be unable to achieve some or all of the anticipated strategic and financial benefits following the
separation of Kenvue Inc. (Kenvue), including with respect to the Company’s remaining ownership interest.
The Company incurred significant expenses in connection with the Kenvue separation (the Separation). In addition, the Company
may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits that are expected to result from the Separation. The anticipated
benefits of the Separation were based on a number of assumptions, some of which may prove incorrect. The Company holds a
9.5% ownership interest in Kenvue. The Company cannot predict the trading price of shares of Kenvue’s common stock and the
market value of the Kenvue shares are subject to market volatility and other factors outside of the Company’s control. The
Company intends to divest its ownership interest in Kenvue, but there can be no assurance regarding the ultimate timing of such
divestiture. Unanticipated developments could delay, prevent or otherwise adversely affect the divestiture, including but not limited
to financial market conditions.
The Separation could result in substantial tax liability.
The Company received a private letter ruling from the IRS as to the tax-free nature of the Separation under the U.S. Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinions of tax advisors, if the IRS determines
that certain steps of the transaction did not qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the resulting tax
liability to the Company and its shareholders could be substantial. The Separation may also not qualify for tax-free treatment in
other countries around the world, and as a result may trigger substantial tax liability to the Company.
16Item 1B. Unresolved staff comments
Not applicable.
Item 1C. Cybersecurity
Risk management and strategy
The Company has documented cybersecurity policies and standards, assesses risks from cybersecurity threats, and monitors
information systems for potential cybersecurity issues. To protect the Company’s information systems from cybersecurity threats,
the Company uses various security tools supporting protection, detection, and response capabilities. The Company maintains a
cybersecurity incident response plan to help ensure a timely, consistent response to actual or attempted cybersecurity incidents
impacting the Company.
The Company also identifies and assesses third-party risks within the enterprise, and through the Company's use of third-party
service providers, across a range of areas including data security and supply chain through a structured third-party risk
management program.
The Company maintains a formal information security training program for all employees that includes training on matters such as
phishing and email security best practices. Employees are also required to complete mandatory training on data privacy.
To evaluate and enhance its cybersecurity program, the Company periodically utilizes third-party experts to undertake maturity
assessments of the Company’s information security program.
To date, the Company is not aware of any cybersecurity incident that has had or is reasonably likely to have a material impact on
the Company’s business or operations; however, because of the frequently changing attack techniques, along with the increased
volume and sophistication of the attacks, there is the potential for the Company to be adversely impacted. This impact could result
in reputational, competitive, operational or other business harm as well as financial costs and regulatory action. Refer to the risk
factor captioned An information security incident, including a cybersecurity breach, could have a negative impact to the Company’s
business or reputation in Part I, Item 1A. Risk factors for additional description of cybersecurity risks and potential related impacts
on the Company.
Governance - management’s responsibility
The Company takes a risk-based approach to cybersecurity and has implemented cybersecurity controls designed to address
cybersecurity threats and risks. The Chief Information Officer (CIO), who is a member of the Company’s Executive Committee, and
the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) are responsible for assessing and managing cybersecurity risks, including the
prevention, mitigation, detection, and remediation of cybersecurity incidents.
The Company’s CISO, in coordination with the CIO, is responsible for leading the Company’s cybersecurity program and
management of cybersecurity risk. The current CISO has over twenty-five years of experience in information security, and his
background includes technical experience, strategy and architecture focused roles, cyber and threat experience, and various
leadership roles.
Governance - board oversight
The Company’s Board of Directors oversees the overall risk management process, including cybersecurity risks, directly and
through its committees. The Regulatory Compliance & Sustainability Committee (RCSC) of the board is primarily responsible for
oversight of risk from cybersecurity threats and oversees compliance with applicable laws, regulations and Company policies
related to, among others, privacy and cybersecurity.
RCSC meetings include discussions of specific risk areas throughout the year including, among others, those relating to
cybersecurity. The CISO provides at least two updates each year to RCSC on cybersecurity matters. These reports include an
overview of the cybersecurity threat landscape, key cybersecurity initiatives to improve the Company’s risk posture, changes in thelegal and regulatory landscape relative to cybersecurity, and overviews of certain cybersecurity incidents that have occurred within
the Company and within the industry.
2023 Annual Report 17Item 2. Properties
The Company's subsidiaries operate 61 manufacturing facilities occupying approximately 9.8 million square feet of floor space. The
manufacturing facilities are used by the industry segments of the Company’s business approximately as follows:
Square Feet
Segment (in thousands)
Innovative Medicine 5,026
MedTech 4,782
Worldwide Total 9,808
Within the U.S., five facilities are used by the Innovative Medicine segment and 18 by the MedTech segment. Outside of the U.S.,
13 facilities are used by the Innovative Medicine segment and 25 by the MedTech segment.
The locations of the manufacturing facilities by major geographic areas of the world are as follows:
Number of Square Feet
Geographic Area Facilities (in thousands)
United States 23 2,973
Europe 20 4,900
Western Hemisphere, excluding U.S. 5 692
Africa, Asia and Pacific 13 1,243
Worldwide Total 61 9,808
In addition to the manufacturing facilities discussed above, the Company maintains numerous office and warehouse facilities
throughout the world.
The Company's subsidiaries generally seek to own, rather than lease, their manufacturing facilities, although some, principally in
non-U.S. locations, are leased. Office and warehouse facilities are often leased. The Company also engages
contract manufacturers.
The Company is committed to maintaining all of its properties in good operating condition.
Segment information on additions to property, plant and equipment is contained in Note 17 Segments of business and geographic
areas of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report.
Item 3. Legal proceedings
The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth in Note 19 Legal proceedings
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report.
Item 4. Mine safety disclosures
Not applicable.
18Executive officers of the registrant
Listed below are the executive officers of the Company. There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers,
and there is no arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which the executive
officer was selected. At the annual meeting of the Board of Directors, the executive officers are elected by the Board to hold office
for one year and until their respective successors are elected and qualified, or until earlier resignation or removal.
Name Age Position
Vanessa Broadhurst 55 Member, Executive Committee; Executive Vice President, Global
Corporate Affairs (a)
Joaquin Duato 61 Chairman of the Board; Chief Executive Officer (b)
Peter M. Fasolo, Ph.D. 61 Member, Executive Committee; Executive Vice President, Chief Human
Resources Officer (c)
Elizabeth Forminard 53 Member, Executive Committee; Executive Vice President, General Counsel
(d)
William N. Hait, M.D., Ph. D. 74 Member, Executive Committee; Executive Vice President, Chief External
Innovation and Medical Officer (e)
John C. Reed, M.D., Ph.D. 65 Member, Executive Committee; Executive Vice President, Innovative
Medicine, R&D (f)
Tim Schmid 54 Member, Executive Committee; Executive Vice President, Worldwide
Chairman, MedTech (g)
James Swanson 58 Member, Executive Committee; Executive Vice President, Chief Information
Officer (h)
Jennifer L. Taubert 60 Member, Executive Committee; Executive Vice President, Worldwide
Chairman, Innovative Medicine (i)
Kathryn E. Wengel 58 Member, Executive Committee; Executive Vice President, Chief Technical
Operations & Risk Officer (j)
Joseph J. Wolk 57 Member, Executive Committee; Executive Vice President, Chief
Financial Officer (k)
(a) Ms. V. Broadhurst was named Executive Vice President, Global Corporate Affairs and appointed to the Executive Committee in 2022. Ms.
Broadhurst rejoined the Company in 2017 and was appointed Company Group Chairman, Global Commercial Strategy Organization in 2018. From
2013 to 2017, she held General Manager roles at Amgen in Inflammation & Cardiovascular, and Cardiovascular & Bone. Prior to her roles at
Amgen, she served in various leadership roles at the Company from 2005-2013.
(b) Mr. J. Duato became Chairman of the Board of Directors in January 2023 subsequent to his appointments as Chief Executive Officer and Director
in January 2022. Mr. Duato was appointed to the Executive Committee in 2016 when he was named Executive Vice President, Worldwide
Chairman, Pharmaceuticals and subsequently served as Vice Chairman of the Executive Committee. Mr. Duato first joined the Company in 1989
with Janssen-Farmaceutica S.A. (Spain), a subsidiary of the Company, and held executive positions of increasing responsibility in all business
sectors and across multiple geographies and functions.
(c) Dr. P. M. Fasolo was appointed to the Executive Committee in 2011 and was named Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer in
2016. He first joined the Company in 2004 as Worldwide Vice President, Human Resources in the MedTech segment, and subsequently served as
the Company’s Chief Talent Officer. He left Johnson & Johnson in 2007 to join Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. as Chief Talent Officer and returned
to the Company in 2010 as the Vice President, Global Human Resources.
(d) Ms. E. Forminard was appointed as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and a member of the Executive Committee in October 2022. Ms.
Forminard joined the Company in 2006, serving in roles of increasing responsibility including General Counsel Medical Devices & Diagnostics,
General Counsel Consumer Group & Supply Chain, Worldwide Vice President Corporate Governance, and in her immediate past role as General
Counsel Pharmaceuticals.
(e) Dr. W. Hait was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief External Innovation, Medical Safety and Global Public Health Officer, and a member of
the Executive Committee in 2022. He first joined the Company in 2007 and has served in a number of leadership roles including
2023 Annual Report 19Global Head, Janssen Research & Development from 2011 to 2018 and Global Head, Johnson & Johnson Global External Innovation from 2018 to
2022.
(f) Dr. J. C. Reed joined the Company in 2023 as Executive Vice President, Innovative Medicine, R&D and a member of the Executive Committee.
Prior to joining the Company, Dr. Reed held executive leadership positions at Sanofi (2018-2022) and Roche (2013-2018), serving on their
respective executive committees. He also served as CEO of Sanford-Burnham Medical Research Institute (now Sanford Burnham Prebys) where
he established multiple therapeutic area-aligned research centers and platform technology centers.
(g) Mr. T. Schmid was named as Executive Vice President, Worldwide Chairman, MedTech and appointed to the Executive Committee in October
2023. He joined the Company in 1993 and has served in leadership positions throughout Johnson & Johnson MedTech, including Chief Strategic
Customer Officer and President of Ethicon, and most recently served as Company Group Chairman MedTech Asia Pacific from 2018-2023.
(h) Mr. J. Swanson was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer and a member of the Executive Committee in 2022. He
rejoined the Company in 2019 as Chief Information Officer of Johnson & Johnson from Bayer Crop Science, where he served as a member of the
Executive Leadership Team and as Chief Information Officer and Head of Digital Transformation. From 1996 to 2005, Mr. Swanson held positions
of increasing responsibility at the Company, including Project Manager, Director IT, Sr. Director IT and Vice President, Chief Information Officer.
(i) Ms. J. L. Taubert was appointed Executive Vice President, Worldwide Chairman, Innovative Medicine (formerly Pharmaceuticals) and a member
of the Executive Committee in 2018. She joined the Company in 2005 as Worldwide Vice President and held several executive positions of
increasing responsibility in the Pharmaceuticals sector, including Company Group Chairman, North America, and Company Group Chairman, The
Americas from 2012-2018.
(j) Ms. K. E. Wengel was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Technical Operations & Risk Officer in 2023, subsequent to her appointment to
the Executive Committee in 2018 when she was named as Executive Vice President, Chief Global Supply Chain Officer. Ms. Wengel first joined
the Company in 1988 as Project Engineer and Engineering Supervisor at Janssen, a subsidiary of the Company. During her tenure with the
Company, she has held a variety of strategic leadership and executive positions, including in roles within operations, quality, engineering, new
products, information technology, and other technical and business functions.
(k) Mr. J. J. Wolk was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and a member of the Executive Committee in July 2018. He first
joined the Company in 1998 as Finance Manager, Business Development for Ortho-McNeil, a subsidiary of the Company. During his tenure at the
Company, he has held a variety of senior leadership roles in several segments and functions across the Company's subsidiaries, including Vice
President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies, and Vice President, Investor Relations.
20Part II
Item 5. Market for registrant’s common equity, related
stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity
securities
As of February 9, 2024, there were 118,772 record holders of common stock of the Company. Additional information called for by
this item is incorporated herein by reference to the following sections of this Report: Note 16 “Common Stock, Stock Option Plans
and Stock Compensation Agreements” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8; and Item 12 “Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters – Equity Compensation Plan
Information.”
Issuer purchases of equity securities
On September 14, 2022, the Company announced that its Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program, authorizing
the Company to purchase up to $5.0 billion of the Company's Common Stock. The repurchase program was completed during the
fiscal first quarter of 2023.
The following table provides information with respect to common stock purchases by the Company during the fiscal fourth quarter
of 2023. Common stock purchases on the open market are made as part of a systematic plan to meet the needs of the
Company’s compensation programs. The repurchases below also include the stock-for-stock option exercises that settled in the
fiscal fourth quarter.
Total Number of Shares (or Maximum Number (or Approximate
Total Number Avg. Price Units) Purchased as Part Dollar Value) of Shares (or Units)
of Shares Paid Per of Publicly Announced that May Yet Be Purchased Under
Fiscal Period Purchased (1) Share Plans or Programs the Plans or Programs
October 2, 2023 through — — — —
October 29, 2023
October 30, 2023 through 125,000 $147.61 — —
November 26, 2023
November 27, 2023 through 1,265,000 $156.76 — —
December 31, 2023
Total 1,390,000 —
(1) During the fiscal fourth quarter of 2023, the Company repurchased an aggregate of 1,390,000 shares of Johnson & Johnson Common Stock in
open-market transactions, all of which were purchased as part of a systematic plan to meet the needs of the Company’s compensation programs.
Item 6. Reserved
2023 Annual Report 21Item 7. Management’s discussion and analysis of results of
operations and financial condition
Organization and business segments
Description of the company and business segments
Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries (the Company) have approximately 131,900 employees worldwide engaged in the
research and development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of products in the healthcare field. The Company conducts
business in virtually all countries of the world with the primary focus on products related to human health and well-being.
The Company is organized into two business segments: Innovative Medicine and MedTech. The Innovative Medicine segment is
focused on the following therapeutic areas, including Immunology, Infectious diseases, Neuroscience, Oncology, Pulmonary
Hypertension, and Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases. Products in this segment are distributed directly to retailers,
wholesalers, distributors, hospitals and healthcare professionals for prescription use. The MedTech segment includes a broad
portfolio of products used in the Orthopaedic, Surgery, Interventional Solutions and Vision fields. These products are distributed to
wholesalers, hospitals and retailers, and used principally in the professional fields by physicians, nurses, hospitals, eye care
professionals and clinics.
The Executive Committee of Johnson & Johnson is the principal management group responsible for the strategic operations and
allocation of the resources of the Company. This Committee oversees and coordinates the activities of the Innovative Medicine and
MedTech business segments.
In all of its product lines, the Company competes with other companies both locally and globally, throughout the world. Competition
exists in all product lines without regard to the number and size of the competing companies involved. Competition in research,
involving the development and the improvement of new and existing products and processes, is particularly significant. The
development of new and innovative products, as well as protecting the underlying intellectual property of the Company's product
portfolio, is important to the Company’s success in all areas of its business. The competitive environment requires substantial
investments in continuing research.
Management’s objectives
With “Our Credo” as the foundation, the Company’s purpose is to blend heart, science and ingenuity to profoundly impact health
for humanity. The Company, believes health is everything. The Company's strength in healthcare innovation empowers us to build
a world where complex diseases are prevented, treated, and cured, where treatments are smarter and less invasive, and solutions
are personal. Through the Company's expertise in Innovative Medicine and MedTech, the Company is uniquely positioned to
innovate across the full spectrum of healthcare solutions today to deliver the breakthroughs of tomorrow, and profoundly impact
health for humanity.
New products introduced within the past five years accounted for approximately 25% of 2023 sales. In 2023, $15.1 billion was
invested in research and development reflecting management’s commitment to create life-enhancing innovations and to create
value through partnerships that will profoundly impact of health for humanity.
A critical driver of the Company’s success is the diversity of its 131,900 employees worldwide. Employees are empowered and
inspired to lead with Our Credo and purpose as guides. This allows every employee to use the Company’s reach and size to
advance the Company’s purpose, and to also lead with agility and urgency. Leveraging the extensive resources across the
enterprise enables the Company to innovate and execute with excellence. This ensures the Company can remain focused on
addressing the unmet needs of society every day and invest for an enduring impact, ultimately delivering value to its patients,
consumers and healthcare professionals, employees, communities and shareholders.
22Research & Acquisitions*
development (net of cash acquired)
*Includes acquisitions of in process
research and development assets
that were not accounted for as a
business combination
Dividends paid
per share
Results of operations
Analysis of consolidated sales
For discussion on results of operations and financial condition pertaining to the fiscal years 2022 and 2021 see the Company’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2023, Item 7. Management's discussion and analysis of results
of operations and financial condition. Prior periods disclosed herein were recast to reflect the continuing operations of the
Company.
In 2023, worldwide sales increased 6.5% to $85.2 billion as compared to an increase of 1.6% in 2022. These sales changes
consisted of the following:
Sales increase/(decrease) due to: 2023 2022
Volume 6.8 % 8.3 %
Price 0.6 (1.8)
Currency (0.9) (4.9)
Total 6.5 % 1.6 %The net impact of acquisitions and divestitures on the worldwide sales growth was a positive impact of 1.5% in 2023 and no
impact in 2022.
Sales by U.S. companies were $46.4 billion in 2023 and $42.0 billion in 2022. This represents increases of 10.6% in 2023
and 3.3% in 2022. Sales by international companies were $38.7 billion in 2023 and $38.0 billion in 2022. This represents an
increase of 1.9% in 2023 and a decrease of 0.2% in 2022.
The five-year compound annual growth rates for worldwide, U.S. and international sales were 4.7%, 5.2% and 4.1%, respectively.
The ten-year compound annual growth rates for worldwide, U.S. and international sales were 4.2%, 5.7% and 2.6%, respectively.
In 2023, sales by companies in Europe experienced a decline of 1.2% as compared to the prior year, which included an
operational decline of 2.2% and a positive currency impact of 1.0%. In fiscal 2023, the net impact of the Covid-19 Vaccine and the
loss of exclusivity of Zytiga on the European regions change in operational sales was a negative 9.8%. Sales by companies in the
Western Hemisphere, excluding the U.S., achieved growth of 10.7% as compared to the prior year, which included operational
growth of 15.8%, and a negative currency impact of 5.1%. Sales by companies in the Asia-Pacific, Africa region achieved growth
of 3.9% as compared to the prior year, including operational growth of 9.5% and a negative currency impact of 5.6%.
2023 Annual Report 23In 2023, the Company utilized three wholesalers distributing products for both segments that represented approximately 18.2%,
15.1% and 14.2% of the total consolidated revenues. In 2022, the Company had three wholesalers distributing products for both
segments that represented approximately 18.9%, 15.0% and 13.8% of the total consolidated revenues.
2023 Sales by geographic region (in billions)
2023 Sales by segment (in billions)
Note: values may have been rounded
Analysis of sales by business segments
Innovative Medicine segment (1)
Innovative Medicine segment sales in 2023 were $54.8 billion, an increase of 4.2% from 2022, which included operational growth
of 4.8% and a negative currency impact of 0.6%. U.S. sales were $31.2 billion, an increase of 9.0%. International sales were $23.6
billion, a decrease of 1.5%, which included an operational decline of 0.2% and a negative currency impact of 1.3%. In 2023,
acquisitions and divestitures had a net negative impact of 0.1% on the operational sales growth of the worldwide Innovative
Medicine segment.24Major Innovative Medicine therapeutic area sales:
Total Operations Currency
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022 Change Change Change
Total Immunology $18,052 $16,935 6.6 % 7.1 % (0.5)%
REMICADE 1,839 2,343 (21.5) (20.7) (0.8)
SIMPONI/SIMPONI ARIA 2,197 2,184 0.6 2.4 (1.8)
STELARA 10,858 9,723 11.7 11.9 (0.2)
TREMFYA 3,147 2,668 17.9 18.3 (0.4)
Other Immunology 11 17 (33.8) (33.8) —
Total Infectious Diseases 4,418 5,449 (18.9) (19.8) 0.9
COVID-19 VACCINE 1,117 2,179 (48.8) (50.1) 1.3
EDURANT/rilpivirine 1,150 1,008 14.1 11.5 2.6
PREZISTA/ PREZCOBIX/REZOLSTA 1,854 1,943 (4.6) (4.9) 0.3
/SYMTUZA
Other Infectious Diseases 297 318 (6.7) (3.6) (3.1)
Total Neuroscience 7,140 6,893 3.6 5.4 (1.8)
CONCERTA/methylphenidate 783 644 21.6 24.9 (3.3)
INVEGA SUSTENNA/XEPLION/INVEGA
TRINZA/TREVICTA 4,115 4,140 (0.6) 0.0 (0.6)
SPRAVATO 689 374 84.1 84.0 0.1
Other Neuroscience (2) 1,553 1,734 (10.4) (5.9) (4.5)
Total Oncology 17,661 15,983 10.5 11.2 (0.7)
CARVYKTI 500 133 * * *
DARZALEX 9,744 7,977 22.2 22.9 (0.7)
ERLEADA 2,387 1,881 26.9 27.5 (0.6)
IMBRUVICA 3,264 3,784 (13.7) (13.2) (0.5)
ZYTIGA /abiraterone acetate 887 1,770 (49.9) (48.4) (1.5)
Other Oncology 879 438 * * *
Total Pulmonary Hypertension 3,815 3,417 11.6 12.9 (1.3)
OPSUMIT 1,973 1,783 10.6 11.6 (1.0)
UPTRAVI 1,582 1,322 19.7 20.4 (0.7)
Other Pulmonary Hypertension 260 313 (16.7) (12.0) (4.7)
Total Cardiovascular / Metabolism / Other 3,671 3,887 (5.5) (5.5) 0.0
XARELTO 2,365 2,473 (4.4) (4.4) —
Other (3) 1,306 1,414 (7.6) (7.4) (0.2)
Total Innovative Medicine Sales $54,759 52,563 4.2 % 4.8 % (0.6)%
* Percentage greater than 100% or not meaningful
(1) Previously referred to as Pharmaceutical
(2) Inclusive of RISPERDAL CONSTA which was previously disclosed separately
(3) Inclusive of INVOKANA which was previously disclosed separately
2023 Annual Report 25Immunology products achieved sales of $18.1 billion in 2023, representing an increase of 6.6% as compared to the prior year.
Increased sales of STELARA (ustekinumab) were primarily driven by patient mix, market growth, and continued strength in
Inflammatory Bowel Disease. Growth of TREMFYA (guselkumab) was due to market growth, continued strength in PsO/PsA
(Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis) and patient mix. Additionally, SIMPONI/SIMPONI ARIA growth was driven by growth outside the
U.S. Lower sales of REMICADE (infliximab) were due to biosimilar competition.
Biosimilar versions of REMICADE have been introduced in the United States and certain markets outside the United States and
additional competitors continue to enter the market. Continued infliximab biosimilar competition will result in a further reduction in
sales of REMICADE.
Sales of STELARA in the United States were approximately $7.0 billion in fiscal 2023. Third parties have filed abbreviated
Biologics License Applications with the FDA seeking approval to market biosimilar versions of STELARA. The Company has
settled certain litigation under the Biosimilar Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009. As a result of these settlements and
other agreements with separate third parties, the Company does not anticipate the launch of a biosimilar version of STELARA until
January 1, 2025 in the United States.
Infectious disease products sales were $4.4 billion in 2023, a decline of 18.9% as compared to the prior year primarily driven by a
decline in COVID-19 vaccine revenue and loss of exclusivity of PREZISTA .
Neuroscience products sales were $7.1 billion in 2023, representing an increase of 3.6% as compared to the prior year. The
growth of SPRAVATO (esketamine) was driven by ongoing launches as well as increased physician confidence and patient
demand. Growth was partially offset by declines in RISPERDAL/RISPERDAL CONSTA and the paliperidone long-acting injectables
outside the U.S. due to the XEPLION loss of exclusivity in the European Union.
Oncology products achieved sales of $17.7 billion in 2023, representing an increase of 10.5% as compared to the prior year. Sales
of DARZALEX (daratumumab) were driven by continued share gains in all regions and market growth. Growth of ERLEADA
(apalutamide) was due to continued share gains and market growth in Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer. Sales of
CARVYKTI (ciltacabtagene autoleucel) were driven by the ongoing launch, share gains and capacity improvement. Additionally,
sales from the launch of TECVAYLI (teclistamab-cqyv) and TALVEY (talquetamab-tgvs), included in Other Oncology, contributed to
the growth. Growth was partially offset by ZYTIGA (abiraterone acetate) due to loss of exclusivity and IMBRUVICA (ibrutinib) due
to global competitive pressures.
Pulmonary Hypertension products sales were $3.8 billion, representing an increase of 11.6% as compared to the prior year. Sales
growth was due to favorable patient mix, share gains and market growth from UPTRAVI (selexipag) and OPSUMIT (macitentan)
partially offset by declines in Other Pulmonary Hypertension.
Cardiovascular/Metabolism/Other products sales were $3.7 billion, a decline of 5.5% as compared to the prior year. The decline of
XARELTO (rivaroxaban) sales was primarily driven by unfavorable patient mix and access changes.
The Company maintains a policy that no end customer will be permitted direct delivery of product to a location other than the
billing location. This policy impacts contract pharmacy transactions involving non-grantee 340B covered entities for most of the
Company’s drugs, subject to multiple exceptions. Both grantee and non-grantee covered entities can maintain certain contract
pharmacy arrangements under policy exceptions. The Company has been and will continue to offer 340B discounts to covered
entities on all of its covered outpatient drugs, and it believes its policy will improve its ability to identify inappropriate duplicate
discounts and diversion prohibited by the 340B statute. The 340B Drug Pricing Program is a U.S. federal government program
requiring drug manufacturers to provide significant discounts on covered outpatient drugs to covered entities. This policy had
discount implications which positively impacted sales to customers in 2023.
26During 2023, the Company advanced its pipeline with several regulatory submissions and approvals for new drugs and additional
indications for existing drugs as follows:
Product Name US EU US EU
(Chemical Name) Indication Approval Approval Filing Filing
AKEEGA (Niraparib and First-And-Only Dual Action Tablet for the Treatment of
Abiraterone Acetate) Patients with BRCA-Positive Metastatic Castration- • •
Resistant Prostate Cancer (MAGNITUDE)
BALVERSA (erdafitinib) Treatment of Patients with Locally Advanced or Metastatic
Urothelial Carcinoma and Selected Fibroblast Growth • •
Factor Receptor Gene Alterations (THOR)
CARVYKTI (ciltacabtagene Treatment for Relapsed and Refactor multiple myeloma
• •
autoleucel) with 1-3 PL (CARTITUDE-4)
EDURANT (rilpivirine) Treatment for pediatric patients (2-12 years old) with HIV • •
ERLEADA Tablet reduction
• •
(apalutamide)
OPSUMIT (macitentan) Treatment for pediatric pulmonary arterial hypertension •
OPSYNVI Treatment for pulmonary arterial hypertension
• •
(mecitentan/tadalafil STCT)
RYBREVANT In Combination with Chemotherapy for the First-Line
(amivantamab) Treatment of Adult Patients with Advanced Non-Small Cell
• •
Lung Cancer with Activating EGFR Exon 20 Insertion
Mutations (PAPILLON)
RYBREVANT / lazertinib Treatment for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer 2L
• •
(MARIPOSA)
RYBREVANT / lazertinib Treatment for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer 2L
• •
(MARIPOSA-2)
TECVAYLI (teclistamab) Treatment of Patients with Relapsed Refractory
•
Multiple Myeloma Biweekly Dosing
TALVEY (talquetamab) Treatment of Patients with Relapsed and Refractory
• •
Multiple Myeloma
2023 Annual Report 27MedTech segment
The MedTech segment sales in 2023 were $30.4 billion, an increase of 10.8% from 2022, which included operational growth of
12.4% and a negative currency impact of 1.6%. U.S. sales were $15.3 billion, an increase of 14.2% as compared to the prior year.
International sales were $15.1 billion, an increase of 7.7% as compared to the prior year, which included operational growth of
10.6% and a negative currency impact of 2.9%. In 2023, the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures on the MedTech segment
worldwide operational sales growth was a positive 4.6% primarily related to the Abiomed acquisition.
Major MedTech franchise sales:
Total Operations Currency
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022 Change Change Change
Surgery $10,037 9,690 3.6 % 5.5 % (1.9)%
Advanced 4,671 4,569 2.2 4.2 (2.0)
General 5,366 5,121 4.8 6.8 (2.0)
Orthopaedics 8,942 8,587 4.1 4.6 (0.5)
Hips 1,560 1,514 3.0 3.5 (0.5)
Knees 1,456 1,359 7.1 7.5 (0.4)
Trauma 2,979 2,871 3.8 4.0 (0.2)
Spine, Sports & Other 2,947 2,843 3.7 4.5 (0.8)
Interventional Solutions 6,350 4,300 47.7 49.8 (2.1)
Electrophysiology 4,688 3,937 19.1 21.1 (2.0)
Abiomed 1,306 31 * * *
Other Interventional Solutions 356 332 7.1 9.9 (2.8)
Vision 5,072 4,849 4.6 6.6 (2.0)
Contact Lenses/Other 3,702 3,543 4.5 6.9 (2.4)
Surgical 1,370 1,306 4.9 5.8 (0.9)
Total MedTech Sales $30,400 27,427 10.8 % 12.4 % (1.6)%
* Percentage greater than 100% or not meaningful
The Surgery franchise sales were $10.0 billion in 2023, representing an increase of 3.6% from 2022. The growth in Advanced
Surgery was primarily driven by Biosurgery global procedure growth and strength of the portfolio as well as uptake of new products
in Endocutters and Energy. The growth was partially offset by competitive pressures and volume-based procurement impacts in
Endocutters and Energy. The growth in General Surgery was primarily driven by increased procedures coupled with technology
penetration and benefits from the differentiated Wound Closure portfolio.
The Orthopaedics franchise sales were $8.9 billion in 2023, representing an increase of 4.1% from 2022. The growth in hips
reflects global procedure growth and continued strength of the portfolio partially offset by volume-based procurement impacts and
Russia sanctions. The growth in knees was primarily driven by procedures, benefits from recent product additions to the ATTUNE
portfolio and pull through related to the VELYS Robotic assisted solution. This was partially offset by stocking dynamics, primarily
outside the U.S. The growth in Trauma was driven by global procedures and the adoption of recently launched products. This was
partially offset by volume-based procurement impacts. The growth in Spine, Sports & Other was primarily driven by Digital
Solutions, Shoulders, Sports and Craniomaxillofacial products partially offset by Russia sanctions and supply constraints, primarily
outside the U.S.
The Interventional Solutions franchise achieved sales of $6.4 billion in 2023, representing an increase of 47.7% from 2022, which
includes sales from Abiomed acquired on December 22, 2022. Electrophysiology grew by double digits due to global procedure
growth, new product performance and commercial execution. This was partially offset by the impacts of volume-based
procurement in China. Abiomed sales reflect the strength of all commercialized regions and continued adoption of Impella 5.5 and
Impella RP.
The Vision franchise achieved sales of $5.1 billion in 2023, representing an increase of 4.6% from 2022. The Contact
Lenses/Other growth was primarily driven by the continued strong performance in the ACUVUE OASYS 1-Day family including
recent launches and commercial execution. This was partially offset by impacts of U.S. stocking dynamics, Russia sanctions,
impacts from strategic portfolio decisions and supply challenges. The Surgical operational growth was primarily driven by cataract
procedure growth, continued strength of recent innovations and reduction of prior year stocking outside the U.S. This was partiallyoffset by softer Refractive and premium IOL markets and Russia sanctions.
28Analysis of consolidated earnings before provision for taxes on income
Consolidated earnings before provision for taxes on income was $15.1 billion and $19.4 billion for the years 2023 and 2022,
respectively. As a percent to sales, consolidated earnings before provision for taxes on income was 17.7% and 24.2%, in 2023
and 2022, respectively.
Earnings before provision for taxes
(Dollars in billions. Percentages in chart are as a percent to total sales)
Cost of products sold and selling, marketing and administrative expenses:
Cost of products soldSelling, marketing & administrative
(Dollars in billions. Percentages in chart are as a percent to total sales)
Cost of products sold:
Cost of products sold increased as a percent to sales driven by:
• Commodity inflation, unfavorable product mix, restructuring related excess inventory costs and Abiomed amortization in the
MedTech business
partially offset by
• Favorable patient mix and lower one-time COVID-19 vaccine manufacturing related exit costs in 2023 in the Innovative
Medicine business
The intangible asset amortization expense included in cost of products sold was $4.5 billion and $3.9 billion for the fiscal years
2023 and 2022, respectively.
2023 Annual Report 29Selling, Marketing and Administrative expense:
Selling, Marketing and Administrative Expenses decreased slightly as a percent to sales driven by:
• Leveraging in Selling and Marketing expenses both the Innovative Medicine and MedTech businesses
partially offset by
• An increase in administrative costs
Research and Development Expense:
Research and development expense by segment of business was as follows:
2023 2022
(Dollars in Millions) Amount % of Sales* Amount % of Sales*
Innovative Medicine $11,963 21.8 % $11,642 22.1 %
MedTech 3,122 10.3 2,493 9.1
Total research and development expense $15,085 17.7 % $14,135 17.7 %
Percent increase/(decrease) over the prior year 6.7 % (1.0 %)
*As a percent to segment sales
Research and development activities represent a significant part of the Company's business. These expenditures relate to the
processes of discovering, testing and developing new products, upfront payments and developmental milestones, improving
existing products, as well as ensuring product efficacy and regulatory compliance prior to launch. The Company remains
committed to investing in research and development with the aim of delivering high quality and innovative products.
Research and Development was flat as a percent to sales primarily driven by:
• Higher milestone payments in the Innovative Medicine business
• Acquired in-process research & development asset from the Laminar acquisition in the MedTech business in the fiscal
year 2023
offset by
• Portfolio prioritization in the Innovative Medicine business
In-Process Research and Development Impairments (IPR&D): In the fiscal year 2023, the Company recorded a charge of
approximately $0.3 billion which included $0.2 billion related to market dynamics associated with a non-strategic asset (M710)
acquired as part of the acquisition of Momenta Pharmaceuticals in 2020, In the fiscal year 2022, the Company recorded an
intangible asset impairment charge of approximately $0.8 billion related to an in-process research and development asset,
bermekimab (JnJ-77474462), an investigational drug for the treatment of Atopic Dermatitis (AD) and Hidradenitis Suppurativa (HS).
Additional information regarding efficacy of the AD indication and HS indication became available which led the Company to the
decision to terminate the development of bermekimab for both AD and HS. The Company acquired all rights to bermekimab from
XBiotech, Inc. in the fiscal year 2020.
Other (Income) Expense, Net: Other (income) expense, net is the account where the Company records gains and losses related
to the sale and write-down of certain investments in equity securities held by Johnson & Johnson Innovation - JJDC, Inc. (JJDC),
changes in the fair value of securities, investment (income)/loss related to employee benefit programs, gains and losses on
divestitures, certain transactional currency gains and losses, acquisition and divestiture related costs, litigation accruals and
settlements, as well as royalty income.
30Other (income) expense, net for the fiscal year 2023 was unfavorable by $5.8 billion as compared to the prior year primarily due to
the following:
(Dollars in Billions)(Income)/Expense 2023 2022 Change
Litigation related (1) $6.9 0.9 6.0
Changes in the fair value of securities (2) 0.6 0.7 (0.1)
COVID-19 vaccine manufacturing exit related costs 0.4 0.7 (0.3)
Acquisition, Integration and Divestiture related (3) 0.3 0.2 0.1
Employee benefit plan related (1.4) (1.2) (0.2)
Other (0.2) (0.5) 0.3
Total Other (Income) Expense, Net $6.6 0.8 5.8
(1) 2023 was primarily related to the approximately $7.0 billion charge for talc (See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more
details) and favorable intellectual property related litigation settlements of approximately $0.3 billion. 2022 was primarily related to pelvic mesh.
(2) The fiscal 2023 includes $0.4 billion related to the unfavorable change in the fair value of the remaining stake in Kenvue and $0.4 billion related to
the partial impairment of Idorsia convertible debt and the change in the fair value of the Idorsia equity securities held.
(3) 2023 primarily related to the impairment of Ponvory and one-time integration costs related to the acquisition of Abiomed. 2022 was primarily costs
related to the acquisition of Abiomed.
Interest (Income) Expense: Interest income in the fiscal year 2023 was $1.3 billion as compared to interest income of $0.5 billion
in the fiscal year 2022 primarily due to higher rates of interest earned on cash balances. Interest expense in the fiscal year 2023
was $0.8 billion as compared to interest expense of $0.3 billion in the fiscal year 2022 primarily due to higher interest rates on
debt balances. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $22.9 billion at the end of 2023, and averaged
$22.6 billion as compared to the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities total of $22.3 billion and $26.9 billion average
balance in 2022. The total debt balance at the end of 2023 was $29.3 billion with an average debt balance of $34.5 billion as
compared to $39.6 billion at the end of 2022 and an average debt balance of $36.7 billion. The lower average cash, cash
equivalents and marketable securities was primarily due to the acquisition of Abiomed in late December of 2022. The lower
average debt balance was primarily due to the repayment of commercial paper.
Income before tax by segment
Income (loss) before tax by segment of business were as follows:
Income Before Tax Segment Sales Percent of Segment Sales
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022
Innovative Medicine $18,246 15,647 54,759 52,563 33.3 % 29.8
MedTech 4,669 4,447 30,400 27,427 15.4 16.2
Segment earnings before tax (1) 22,915 20,094 85,159 79,990 26.9 25.1
Less: Expenses not allocated to segments (2) 7,853 735
Worldwide income before tax $15,062 19,359 85,159 79,990 17.7 % 24.2
(1) See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more details.
(2) Amounts not allocated to segments include interest (income) expense and general corporate (income) expense. Fiscal 2023 includes an
approximately $7.0 billion charge related to talc matters and the approximately $0.4 billion unfavorable change in the fair value of the retained
stake in Kenvue.
2023 Annual Report 31Innovative Medicine segment:
In 2023, the Innovative Medicine segment income before tax as a percent to sales was 33.3% versus 29.8% in 2022. The increase
in the income before tax as a percent of sales was primarily driven by the following:
• Lower one-time COVID-19 Vaccine related exit costs of $0.7 billion in 2023 versus $1.5 billion in 2022
• Lower In-process research & development impairments of $0.2 billion in 2023 versus $0.8 billion in 2022
• Unfavorable changes in the fair value of securities in 2023 of $0.4 billion as compared to $0.7 billion in 2022
• Lower litigation related expense of $0.2 billion
• Leveraging in selling and marketing expenses
• R&D Portfolio prioritization
partially offset by
• Restructuring charges of $0.5 billion in 2023 versus $0.1 billion in 2022
• Impairment of Ponvory in 2023
• Higher milestone payments in 2023
MedTech segment:
In 2023, the MedTech segment income before tax as a percent to sales was 15.4% versus 16.2% in 2022. The decrease in the
income before tax as a percent to sales was primarily driven by the following:
• Higher amortization expense of $0.5 billion in 2023 related to Abiomed
• Expense of $0.4 billion for an acquired in process research and development asset from the Laminar acquisition in 2023
• Commodity inflation in 2023
partially offset by
• Income from litigation settlements of $0.1 billion in 2023 versus expense of $0.6 billion in 2022
• Lower integration/acquisition costs related to Abiomed of $0.2 billion in 2023 versus $0.3 billion in 2022
• Leveraging in selling and marketing expenses in 2023
Restructuring: In the fiscal year 2023, the Company completed a prioritization of its research and development (R&D) investment
within the Innovative Medicine segment to focus on the most promising medicines with the greatest benefit to patients. This
resulted in the exit of certain programs within therapeutic areas. The R&D program exits are primarily in infectious diseases and
vaccines including the discontinuation of its respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) adult vaccine program, hepatitis and HIV
development. The pre-tax restructuring charge of approximately $0.5 billion in the fiscal year 2023, of which $449 million was
recorded in Restructuring and $30 million was recorded in Cost of products sold on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings,
included the termination of partnered and non-partnered program costs and asset impairments.
In the fiscal year 2023, the Company initiated a restructuring program of its Orthopaedics franchise within the MedTech segment to
streamline operations by exiting certain markets, product lines and distribution network arrangements. The pre-tax restructuring
expense of $0.3 billion in the fiscal year 2023, of which $40 million was recorded in Restructuring and $279 million was recorded
in Cost of products sold on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, primarily included inventory and instrument charges related to
market and product exits.
In 2022, the Company recorded a pre-tax charge of $0.4 billion related to a restructuring program of its Global Supply Chain. The
Global Supply Chain program was announced in the second quarter of 2018 and was completed in the fiscal fourth quarter of
2022.
See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details related to the restructuring programs.
32Provision for Taxes on Income: The worldwide effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 11.5% in 2023 and
15.4% in 2022.
On December 15, 2022, the European Union (EU) Member States formally adopted the EU’s Pillar Two Directive, which generally
provides for a minimum effective tax rate of 15%, as established by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
(OECD) Pillar Two Framework that was supported by over 130 countries worldwide. As of December 31, 2023, several EU and
non-EU countries have enacted Pillar 2 legislation with an initial effective date of January 1, 2024, with other aspects of the law
effective in 2025 or later. The Company is estimating that as result of this legislation the 2024 effective tax rate will increase by
approximately 1.5% or 150 basis points compared to fiscal 2023. Further legislation, guidance and regulations that may be issued
in fiscal 2024, as well as other business events, may impact this estimate.
For discussion related to the fiscal 2023 provision for taxes refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Liquidity and capital resources
Liquidity & cash flows
Cash and cash equivalents were $21.9 billion at the end of 2023 as compared to $14.1 billion at the end of 2022.
The primary sources and uses of cash that contributed to the $7.8 billion increase were:
(Dollars in billions)
$14.1 Q4 2022 Cash and cash equivalents balance
22.8 cash generated from operating activities
0.9 net cash from investing activities
(15.8) net cash used by financing activities
(0.1) effect of exchange rate and rounding
$21.9 Q4 2023 Cash and cash equivalents balance
In addition, the Company had $1.1 billion in marketable securities at the end of fiscal year 2023 and $9.4 billion at the end of fiscal
year 2022. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on cash, cash equivalents and marketable
securities.
Cash flow from operations of $22.8 billion was the result of:
(Dollars In billions)
$35.2 Net Earnings
(14.9) gain on the Kenvue separation, net gain on sale of assets/businesses and the deferred tax provision partially offset by
non-cash expenses and other adjustments primarily for depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, asset
write-downs and charge for purchase of in process research and development assets
5.6 an increase in current and non-current liabilities
(3.5) an increase in other current and non-current assets
2.3 an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities
(1.9) an increase in accounts receivable and inventories
$22.8 Cash flow from operations
2023 Annual Report 33Cash flow from investing activities of $0.9 billion was primarily due to:
(Dollars in billions)
$(4.5) additions to property, plant and equipment
0.4 proceeds from the disposal of assets/businesses, net
(0.5) purchases of in-process research and development assets
8.5 net sales of investments
(3.0) credit support agreements activity, net
$0.9 Net cash from investing activities
Cash flow used for financing activities of $15.8 billion was primarily due to:
(Dollars in billions)
$(11.8) dividends to shareholders
(5.1) repurchase of common stock
(10.8) net repayment from short and long term debt
1.1 proceeds from stock options exercised/employee withholding tax on stock awards, net
(0.2) Credit support agreements activity, net
8.0 Proceeds of short and long-term debt, net of issuance cost, related to the debt that transferred to Kenvue at separation
4.2 proceeds from Kenvue initial public offering
(1.1) Cash transferred to Kenvue at separation
(0.1) other and rounding
$(15.8) Net cash used for financing activities
As of December 31, 2023, the Company's notes payable and long-term debt was in excess of cash, cash equivalents and
marketable securities. As of December 31, 2023, the net debt position was $6.4 billion as compared to the prior year of $17.4
billion. The debt balance at the end of 2023 was $29.3 billion as compared to $39.6 billion in 2022. Considering recent market
conditions, the Company has re-evaluated its operating cash flows and liquidity profile and does not foresee any significant
incremental risk. The Company anticipates that operating cash flows, the ability to raise funds from external sources, borrowing
capacity from existing committed credit facilities and access to the commercial paper markets will continue to provide sufficient
resources to fund operating needs, including the Company's remaining balance to be paid on the agreement to settle opioid
litigation for approximately $2.1 billion and the establishment of the approximately $9 billion reserve for talc matters (See Note 19
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details). In addition, the Company monitors the global capital markets on
an ongoing basis and from time to time may raise capital when market conditions are favorable.
On May 8, 2023, Kenvue, completed an initial public offering (the IPO) resulting in the issuance of 198,734,444 shares of its
common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the Kenvue Common Stock), at an initial public offering of $22.00 per share for net
proceeds of $4.2 billion. The excess of the net proceeds from the IPO over the net book value of the Johnson & Johnson divested
interest was $2.5 billion and was recorded to additional paid-in capital. As of the closing of the IPO, Johnson & Johnson owned
approximately 89.6% of the total outstanding shares of Kenvue Common Stock and at July 2, 2023, the non-controlling interest of
$1.3 billion associated with Kenvue was reflected in equity attributable to non-controlling interests in the consolidated balance
sheet.
On August 23, 2023, Johnson & Johnson completed the disposition of an additional 80.1% ownership of Kenvue Common Stock
through an exchange offer, which resulted in Johnson & Johnson acquiring 190,955,436 shares of the Company’s common stock
in exchange for 1,533,830,450 shares of Kenvue Common Stock. The $31.4 billion of Johnson & Johnson common stock received
in the exchange offer is recorded in Treasury stock. Following the exchange offer, the Company owns 9.5% of the total outstanding
shares of Kenvue Common Stock that was recorded in other assets within continuing operations at the fair market value of $4.3
billion as of August 23, 2023 and $3.9 billion as of December 31, 2023.
Johnson & Johnson divested net assets of $11.6 billion as of August 23, 2023, and the accumulated other comprehensive loss
attributable to the Consumer Health business at that date was $4.3 billion. Additionally, at the date of the exchange offer,
34Johnson & Johnson decreased the non-controlling interest by $1.2 billion to record the deconsolidation of Kenvue. This resulted in
a gain on the exchange offer of $21.0 billion that was recorded in Net earnings from discontinued operations, net of taxes in the
consolidated statements of earnings for the fiscal third quarter of 2023. This one-time gain includes a gain of $2.8 billion on the
Kenvue Common Stock retained by Johnson & Johnson. The gain on the exchange offer qualifies as a tax-free transaction for
U.S. federal income tax purposes.
On September 14, 2022, the Company announced that its Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program, authorizing
the Company to purchase up to $5.0 billion of the Company’s Common Stock. In the fiscal year 2022, approximately $2.5 billion
was repurchased under the program. In the fiscal year 2023, $2.5 billion has been repurchased and the repurchase program was
completed.
The following table summarizes the Company’s material contractual obligations and their aggregate maturities as of December 31,
2023: To satisfy these obligations, the Company intends to use cash from operations.
Tax Legislation Interest on
(Dollars in Millions) (TCJA) Debt Obligations Debt Obligations Total
2024 $2,029 1,469 843 4,341
2025 2,536 1,700 789 5,025
2026 — 1,997 744 2,741
2027 — 2,320 736 3,056
2028 — 2,325 691 3,016
After 2028 — 17,539 8,706 26,245
Total $4,565 27,350 12,509 44,424
For tax matters, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
2023 Annual Report 35Financing and market risk
The Company uses financial instruments to manage the impact of foreign exchange rate changes on cash flows. Accordingly, the
Company enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to protect the value of certain foreign currency assets and liabilities and
to hedge future foreign currency transactions primarily related to product costs. Gains or losses on these contracts are offset by
the gains or losses on the underlying transactions. A 10% appreciation of the U.S. Dollar from the December 31, 2023 market
rates would increase the unrealized value of the Company’s forward contracts by $0.1 billion. Conversely, a 10% depreciation of
the U.S. Dollar from the December 31, 2023 market rates would decrease the unrealized value of the Company’s forward
contracts by $0.1 billion. In either scenario, the gain or loss on the forward contract would be offset by the gain or loss on the
underlying transaction, and therefore, would have no impact on future anticipated earnings and cash flows.
The Company hedges the exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, and the effect on certain assets and liabilities in
foreign currency, by entering into currency swap contracts. A 1% change in the spread between U.S. and foreign interest rates on
the Company’s interest rate sensitive financial instruments would either increase or decrease the unrealized value of the
Company’s swap contracts by approximately $1.6 billion. In either scenario, at maturity, the gain or loss on the swap contract
would be offset by the gain or loss on the underlying transaction, and therefore, would have no impact on future anticipated cash
flows.
The Company does not enter into financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Further, the Company has a policy of
only entering into contracts with parties that have at least an investment grade credit rating. The counterparties to these contracts
are major financial institutions and there is no significant concentration of exposure with any one counterparty. Management
believes the risk of loss is remote. The Company entered into credit support agreements (CSA) with certain derivative
counterparties establishing collateral thresholds based on respective credit ratings and netting agreements. See Note 6 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on credit support agreements.
The Company invests in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning securities which carry a degree of interest rate risk. The
fair market value of fixed rate securities may be adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities
may produce less income than predicted if interest rates fall. A 1% (100 basis points) change in spread on the Company’s interest
rate sensitive investments would either increase or decrease the unrealized value of cash equivalents and current marketable
securities by less than $0.8 billion.
The Company has access to substantial sources of funds at numerous banks worldwide. In September 2023, the Company
secured a new 364-day Credit Facility of $10 billion, which expires on September 5, 2024. The Company early terminated the
additional 364-day revolving Credit Facility of $10 billion, which had an expiration of November 21, 2023. Interest charged on
borrowings under the credit line agreement is based on either Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) Reference Rate or other
applicable market rate as allowed plus applicable margins. Commitment fees under the agreement are not material.
Total borrowings at the end of 2023 and 2022 were $29.3 billion and $39.6 billion, respectively. The decrease in the debt balance
was due to the repayment of commercial paper. In 2023, net debt (cash and current marketable securities, net of debt) was
$6.4 billion compared to net debt of $17.4 billion in 2022. Total debt represented 30.0% of total capital (shareholders’ equity and
total debt) in 2023 and 34.0% of total capital in 2022. Shareholders’ equity per share at the end of 2023 was $28.57 compared to
$29.39 at year-end 2022.
A summary of borrowings can be found in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Dividends
The Company increased its dividend in 2023 for the 61st consecutive year. Cash dividends paid were $4.70 per share in 2023 and
$4.45 per share in 2022.
On January 2, 2024, the Board of Directors declared a regular cash dividend of $1.19 per share, payable on March 5, 2024 to
shareholders of record as of February 20, 2024.
36Other information
Critical accounting policies and estimates
Management’s discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition are based on the Company’s consolidated
financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). The
preparation of these financial statements requires that management make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts
reported for revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and other related disclosures. Actual results may or may not differ from these
estimates. The Company believes that the understanding of certain key accounting policies and estimates are essential in
achieving more insight into the Company’s operating results and financial condition. These key accounting policies include revenue
recognition, income taxes, legal and self-insurance contingencies, valuation of long-lived assets, assumptions used to determine
the amounts recorded for pensions and other employee benefit plans and accounting for stock based awards.
Revenue Recognition: The Company recognizes revenue from product sales when obligations under the terms of a contract with
the customer are satisfied; generally, this occurs with the transfer of control of the goods to customers. The Company's global
payment terms are typically between 30 to 90 days. Provisions for certain rebates, sales incentives, trade promotions, coupons,
product returns, discounts to customers and governmental clawback provisions are accounted for as variable consideration and
recorded as a reduction in sales.
Product discounts granted are based on the terms of arrangements with direct, indirect and other market participants, as well as
market conditions, including consideration of competitor pricing. Rebates are estimated based on contractual terms, historical
experience, patient outcomes, trend analysis and projected market conditions in the various markets served. The Company
evaluates market conditions for products or groups of products primarily through the analysis of wholesaler and other third-party
sell-through and market research data, as well as internally generated information.
Sales returns are estimated and recorded based on historical sales and returns information. Products that exhibit unusual sales or
return patterns due to dating, competition or other marketing matters are specifically investigated and analyzed as part of the
accounting for sales return accruals.
Sales returns allowances represent a reserve for products that may be returned due to expiration, destruction in the field, or in
specific areas, product recall. The sales returns reserve is based on historical return trends by product and by market as a percent
to gross sales. In accordance with the Company’s accounting policies, the Company generally issues credit to customers for
returned goods. The Company’s sales returns reserves are accounted for in accordance with the U.S. GAAP guidance for revenue
recognition when right of return exists. Sales returns reserves are recorded at full sales value. Sales returns in the Innovative
Medicine segments are almost exclusively not resalable. Sales returns for certain franchises in the MedTech segment are typically
resalable but are not material. The Company infrequently exchanges products from inventory for returned products. The sales
returns reserve for the total Company has been less than 1.0% of annual net trade sales during the fiscal years 2023, 2022 and
2021.
Promotional programs, such as product listing allowances are recorded in the same period as related sales and include
volume-based sales incentive programs. Volume-based incentive programs are based on the estimated sales volumes for the
incentive period and are recorded as products are sold. These arrangements are evaluated to determine the appropriate amounts
to be deferred or recorded as a reduction of revenue. The Company also earns profit-share payments through collaborative
arrangements of certain products, which are included in sales to customers. Profit-share payments were less than 2.0% of the total
revenues in fiscal year 2023 and less than 3.0% of the total revenues in fiscal year 2022 and 2021 are included in sales to
customers.
In addition, the Company enters into collaboration arrangements that contain multiple revenue generating activities. Amounts due
from collaborative partners for these arrangements are recognized as each activity is performed or delivered, based on the relative
selling price. Upfront fees received as part of these arrangements are deferred and recognized over the performance period. See
Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional disclosures on collaborations.
Reasonably likely changes to assumptions used to calculate the accruals for rebates, returns and promotions are not anticipated to
have a material effect on the financial statements. The Company currently discloses the impact of changes to assumptions in the
quarterly or annual filing in which there is a material financial statement impact.
2023 Annual Report 37Below are tables that show the progression of accrued rebates, returns, promotions, reserve for doubtful accounts and reserve for
cash discounts by segment of business for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2023 and January 1, 2023.
Innovative Medicine segment
Balance at Balance at
Beginning Payments/ End of
(Dollars in Millions) of Period Accruals Credits (2) Period
2023
Accrued rebates (1) $12,289 47,523 (45,151) 14,661
Accrued returns 649 332 (347) 634
Accrued promotions 1 12 (7) 6
Subtotal $12,939 47,867 (45,505) 15,301
Reserve for doubtful accounts 44 0 (11) 33
Reserve for cash discounts 110 1,386 (1,385) 111
Total $13,093 49,253 (46,901) 15,445
2022
Accrued rebates (1) $10,331 43,026 (41,068) 12,289
Accrued returns 520 444 (315) 649
Accrued promotions 3 5 (7) 1
Subtotal $10,854 43,475 (41,390) 12,939
Reserve for doubtful accounts 50 0 (6) 44
Reserve for cash discounts 94 1,281 (1,265) 110
Total $10,998 44,756 (42,661) 13,093
(1) Includes reserve for customer rebates of $165 million at December 31, 2023 and $203 million at January 1, 2023, recorded as a contra asset.
(2) Includes prior period adjustments
38MedTech segment
Balance at Balance at
Beginning of Payments/ End of
(Dollars in Millions) Period Accruals Credits Period
2023
Accrued rebates (1) $1,470 6,241 (6,256) 1,455
Accrued returns 134 555 (564) 125
Accrued promotions 43 74 (92) 25
Subtotal $1,647 6,870 (6,912) 1,605
Reserve for doubtful accounts 125 33 (25) 133
Reserve for cash discounts 9 96 (100) 5
Total $1,781 6,999 (7,037) 1,743
2022
Accrued rebates (1) $1,446 6,131 (6,107) 1,470
Accrued returns 134 531 (531) 134
Accrued promotions 54 102 (113) 43
Subtotal $1,634 6,764 (6,751) 1,647
Reserve for doubtful accounts 148 6 (29) 125
Reserve for cash discounts 10 99 (100) 9
Total $1,792 6,869 (6,880) 1,781
(1) Includes reserve for customer rebates of $740 million at December 31, 2023 and $802 million at January 1, 2023, recorded as a contra asset.
Income Taxes: Income taxes are recorded based on amounts refundable or payable for the current year and include the results
of any difference between U.S. GAAP accounting and tax reporting, recorded as deferred tax assets or liabilities. The Company
estimates deferred tax assets and liabilities based on enacted tax regulations and rates. Future changes in tax laws and rates may
affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities.
The Company has unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions. The Company follows U.S. GAAP, which prescribes a
recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or
expected to be taken in a tax return. Management believes that changes in these estimates would not have a material effect on
the Company's results of operations, cash flows or financial position.
The Company has recorded deferred tax liabilities on all undistributed earnings prior to December 31, 2017 from its international
subsidiaries. The Company has not provided deferred taxes on the undistributed earnings subsequent to January 1, 2018 from
certain international subsidiaries where the earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested. The Company intends to continue
to reinvest these earnings in those international operations. If the Company decides at a later date to repatriate these earnings to
the U.S., the Company would be required to provide for the net tax effects on these amounts. The Company estimates that the tax
effect of this repatriation would be approximately $0.5 billion under currently enacted tax laws and regulations and at current
currency exchange rates. This amount does not include the possible benefit of U.S. foreign tax credits, which may substantially
offset this cost.
See Note 1 and Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes.
Legal and Self Insurance Contingencies: The Company records accruals for various contingencies, including legal proceedings
and product liability claims as these arise in the normal course of business. The accruals are based on management’s judgment
as to the probability of losses and, where applicable, actuarially determined estimates. The Company has self insurance through a
wholly-owned captive insurance company. In addition to accruals in the self insurance program, claims that exceed the insurance
coverage are accrued when losses are probable and amounts can be reasonably estimated.
The Company follows the provisions of U.S. GAAP when recording litigation related contingencies. A liability is recorded when a
loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated.
2023 Annual Report 39See Notes 1 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding product liability and
legal proceedings.
Long-Lived and Intangible Assets: The Company assesses changes, both qualitatively and quantitatively, in economic
conditions and makes assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows in evaluating the value of the Company’s property, plant
and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets. As these assumptions and estimates may change over time, it may or may not be
necessary for the Company to record impairment charges.
Employee Benefit Plans: The Company sponsors various retirement and pension plans, including defined benefit, defined
contribution and termination indemnity plans, which cover most employees worldwide. These plans are based on assumptions for
the discount rate, expected return on plan assets, mortality rates, expected salary increases, healthcare cost trend rates and
attrition rates. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on these rates.
Stock Based Compensation: The Company recognizes compensation expense associated with the issuance of equity
instruments to employees for their services. Based on the type of equity instrument, the fair value is estimated on the date of grant
using either the Black-Scholes option valuation model or a combination of both the Black-Scholes option valuation model and
Monte Carlo valuation model, and is expensed in the financial statements over the service period. The input assumptions used in
determining fair value are the expected life, expected volatility, risk-free rate and expected dividend yield. For performance share
units, the fair market value is calculated for the two component goals at the date of grant: adjusted operational earnings per share
and relative total shareholder return. The fair values for the earnings per share goal of each performance share unit was estimated
on the date of grant using the fair market value of the shares at the time of the award, discounted for dividends, which are not paid
on the performance share units during the vesting period. The fair value for the relative total shareholder return goal of each
performance share unit was estimated on the date of grant using the Monte Carlo valuation model. See Note 16 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
New accounting pronouncements
Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued
accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of December 31, 2023.
40Economic and market factors
The Company is aware that its products are used in an environment where, for more than a decade, policymakers, consumers and
businesses have expressed concerns about the rising cost of healthcare. In response to these concerns, the Company has a
long-standing policy of pricing products responsibly. For the period 2013 - 2023, in the U.S., the weighted average compound
annual growth rate of the Company’s net price increases for healthcare products (prescription and over-the-counter drugs, hospital
and professional products) was below the U.S. Consumer Price Index (CPI).
The Company operates in certain countries where the economic conditions continue to present significant challenges. The
Company continues to monitor these situations and take appropriate actions. Inflation rates continue to have an effect on
worldwide economies and, consequently, on the way companies operate. The Company has accounted for operations in Argentina,
Venezuela and Turkey (beginning in the fiscal second quarter of 2022) as highly inflationary, as the prior three-year cumulative
inflation rate surpassed 100%. This did not have a material impact to the Company's results in the period. In the face of increasing
costs, the Company strives to maintain its profit margins through cost reduction programs, productivity improvements and periodic
price increases.
In December 2023, the Argentine government devalued the peso by approximately 50%. During 2023, the Company recorded a
charge of approximately $130 million related to operations in Argentina due to the application of highly inflationary accounting. As
of December 31, 2023, the Company’s Argentine subsidiaries represented less than 1.0% of the Company's consolidated assets,
liabilities, revenues and profits from continuing operations; therefore, the effect of a change in the exchange rate is not expected to
have a material adverse effect on the Company's 2024 full-year results.
In July 2023, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Janssen) filed litigation against the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
as well as the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services challenging the constitutionality of the Inflation Reduction Act’s (IRA)
Medicare Drug Price Negotiation Program. The litigation requests a declaration that the IRA violates Janssen’s rights under the
First Amendment and the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution and therefore that Janssen is not subject to the IRA’s mandatory
pricing scheme.
Russia-Ukraine War
Although the long-term implications of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine are difficult to predict at this time, the financial impact of the
conflict in the fiscal year 2023, including accounts receivable or inventory reserves, was not material. As of and for each of the
fiscal years ending December 31, 2023 and January 1, 2023, the business of the Company’s Russian subsidiaries represented
less than 1% of the Company’s consolidated assets and represented 1% of revenues. The Company does not maintain Ukraine
subsidiaries subsequent to the Kenvue separation.
In early March of 2022, the Company took steps to suspend all advertising, enrollment in clinical trials, and any additional
investment in Russia. The Company continues to supply products relied upon by patients for healthcare purposes.
Conflict in the Middle East
Although the long-term implications of Israel's conflict are difficult to predict at this time, the financial impact of the conflict in the
fiscal year 2023, including accounts receivable or inventory reserves, was not material. As of and for the fiscal year ending
December 31, 2023, the business of the Company’s Israel subsidiaries represented 1% of the Company’s consolidated assets and
represented less than 1% of revenues.
The Company is exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. A 1% change in the value of the U.S. Dollar as compared to
all foreign currencies in which the Company had sales, income or expense in 2023 would have increased or decreased the
translation of foreign sales by approximately $0.4 billion and net income by approximately $0.2 billion.
Governments around the world consider various proposals to make changes to tax laws, which may include increasing or
decreasing existing statutory tax rates. In connection with various government initiatives, companies are required to disclose more
information to tax authorities on operations around the world, which may lead to greater audit scrutiny of profits earned in other
countries. A change in statutory tax rate in any country would result in the revaluation of the Company’s deferred tax assets and
liabilities related to that particular jurisdiction in the period in which the new tax law is enacted. This change would result in an
expense or benefit recorded to the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The Company closely monitors these
proposals as they arise in the countries where it operates. Changes to the statutory tax rate may occur at any time, and any
related expense or benefit recorded may be material to the fiscal quarter and year in which the law change is enacted.
The Company faces various worldwide healthcare changes that may continue to result in pricing pressures that include healthcare
cost containment and government legislation relating to sales, promotions, pricing and reimbursement of healthcare products.
Changes in the behavior and spending patterns of purchasers of healthcare products and services, including delaying medical
procedures, rationing prescription medications, reducing the frequency of physician visits and foregoing healthcare insurance
coverage may continue to impact the Company’s businesses.2023 Annual Report 41The Company also operates in an environment increasingly hostile to intellectual property rights. Firms have filed Abbreviated New
Drug Applications or Biosimilar Biological Product Applications with the U.S. FDA or otherwise challenged the coverage and/or
validity of the Company's patents, seeking to market generic or biosimilar forms of many of the Company’s key pharmaceutical
products prior to expiration of the applicable patents covering those products. In the event the Company is not successful in
defending the patent claims challenged in the resulting lawsuits, generic or biosimilar versions of the products at issue will be
introduced to the market, resulting in the potential for substantial market share and revenue losses for those products, and which
may result in a non-cash impairment charge in any associated intangible asset. There is also a risk that one or more competitors
could launch a generic or biosimilar version of the product at issue following regulatory approval even though one or more valid
patents are in place.
Legal proceedings
Johnson & Johnson and certain of its subsidiaries are involved in various lawsuits and claims regarding product liability, intellectual
property, commercial, employment, indemnification and other matters; governmental investigations; and other legal proceedings
that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of business.
The Company records accruals for loss contingencies associated with these legal matters when it is probable that a liability will be
incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. As of December 31, 2023, the Company has determined that
the liabilities associated with certain litigation matters are probable and can be reasonably estimated. The Company has accrued
for these matters and will continue to monitor each related legal issue and adjust accruals as might be warranted based on new
information and further developments in accordance with ASC 450-20-25, Contingencies. For these and other litigation and
regulatory matters discussed below for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible, the Company is unable to estimate the
possible loss or range of loss beyond the amounts accrued. Amounts accrued for legal contingencies often result from a complex
series of judgments about future events and uncertainties that rely heavily on estimates and assumptions including timing of
related payments. The ability to make such estimates and judgments can be affected by various factors including, among other
things, whether damages sought in the proceedings are unsubstantiated or indeterminate; scientific and legal discovery has not
commenced or is not complete; proceedings are in early stages; matters present legal uncertainties; there are significant facts in
dispute; procedural or jurisdictional issues; the uncertainty and unpredictability of the number of potential claims; ability to achieve
comprehensive multi-party settlements; complexity of related cross-claims and counterclaims; and/or there are numerous parties
involved. To the extent adverse awards, judgments or verdicts have been rendered against the Company, the Company does not
record an accrual until a loss is determined to be probable and can be reasonably estimated.
In the Company's opinion, based on its examination of these matters, its experience to date and discussions with counsel, the
ultimate outcome of legal proceedings, net of liabilities accrued in the Company's balance sheet, is not expected to have a material
adverse effect on the Company's financial position. However, the resolution of, or increase in accruals for, one or more of these
matters in any reporting period may have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and cash flows for that
period.
See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report for further information regarding
legal proceedings.
Common stock
The Company’s Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol JNJ. As of February 9, 2024, there
were 118,772 record holders of Common Stock of the Company.
Item 7A. Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about
market risk
The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to Item 7. Management’s discussion and analysis of
results of operations and financial condition - Liquidity and capital resources - Financing and market risk of this Report; and Note 1
Summary of significant accounting policies - Financial instruments of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
Item 8 of this Report.
42Item 8. Financial statements and supplementary data
Index to audited Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated b alance s heets 44
Consolidated s tatements of e arnings 45
Consolidated s tatements of c omprehensive i ncome 46
Consolidated s tatements of e quity 47
Consolidated s tatements of c ash f lows 48
Notes to c onsolidated f inancial s tatements 50
Report of i ndependent r egistered p ublic a ccounting f irm (PCAOB ID 238 ) 106
Management’s r eport on i nternal c ontrol o ver f inancial r eporting 109
2023 Annual Report 43Johnson & Johnson and subsidiaries consolidated balance sheets
At December 31, 2023 and January 1, 2023
(Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) (Note 1)2023 2022
Assets
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents (Notes 1 and 2) $ 21,859 12,889
Marketable securities (Notes 1 and 2) 1,068 9,392
Accounts receivable trade, less allowances $ 166 (2022, $ 169 ) 14,873 14,039
Inventories (Notes 1 and 3) 11,181 10,268
Prepaid expenses and other receivables 4,514 2,876
Current assets of discontinued operations (Note 21) — 5,830
Total current assets 53,495 55,294
Property, plant and equipment, net (Notes 1 and 4) 19,898 17,982
Intangible assets, net (Notes 1 and 5) 34,175 38,489
Goodwill (Notes 1 and 5) 36,558 36,047
Deferred taxes on income (Note 8) 9,279 8,947
Other assets 14,153 9,212
Noncurrent assets of discontinued operations (Note 21) — 21,407
Total assets $ 167,558 187,378
Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity
Current liabilities
Loans and notes payable (Note 7) $ 3,451 12,756
Accounts payable 9,632 9,889
Accrued liabilities 10,212 10,719
Accrued rebates, returns and promotions 16,001 13,579
Accrued compensation and employee related obligations 3,993 3,049
Accrued taxes on income (Note 8) 2,993 2,220
Current liabilities of discontinued operations (Note 21) — 3,590
Total current liabilities 46,282 55,802
Long-term debt (Note 7) 25,881 26,886
Deferred taxes on income (Note 8) 3,193 3,991
Employee related obligations (Notes 9 and 10) 7,149 6,542
Long-term taxes payable (Note 1) 2,881 4,306
Other liabilities 13,398 10,146
Noncurrent liabilities of discontinued operations (Note 21) — 2,901
Total liabilities 98,784 110,574
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 19)
Shareholders’ equity
Preferred stock — without par value (authorized and unissued2 ,000,000 shares) — —
Common stock — par value $1 .00 per share (Note 12) (authorized 4,320,000,000 shares; issued
3,119,843,000 shares) 3,120 3,120
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (Note 13) ( 12,527 ) ( 12,967 )
Retained earnings and Additional-paid-in-capital 153,843 128,345
Less: common stock held in treasury, at cost (Note 12) ( 712,765,000 shares and 506,246,000
shares) 75,662 41,694
Total shareholders’ equity 68,774 76,804
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ 167,558 187,378
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
44Johnson & Johnson and subsidiaries consolidated statements
of earnings
(Dollars and Shares in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) (Note 1)
2023 2022 2021
Sales to customers $ 85,159 79,990 78,740
Cost of products sold 26,553 24,596 23,402
Gross profit 58,606 55,394 55,338
Selling, marketing and administrative expenses 21,512 20,246 20,118
Research and development expense 15,085 14,135 14,277
In-process research and development impairments 313 783 900
Interest income ( 1,261 ) ( 490 ) ( 53 )
Interest expense, net of portion capitalized (Note 4) 772 276 183
Other (income) expense, net 6,634 810 526
Restructuring (Note 20) 489 275 209
Earnings before provision for taxes on income 15,062 19,359 19,178
Provision for taxes on income (Note 8) 1,736 2,989 1,377
Net earnings from continuing operations 13,326 16,370 17,801
Net earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax (Note 21) 21,827 1,571 3,077
Net earnings $ 35,153 17,941 20,878
Net earnings per share (Notes 1 and 15)
Continuing operations - basic $ 5.26 6.23 6.76
Discontinued operations - basic $ 8.62 0.60 1.17
Total net earnings per share - basic $ 13.88 6.83 7.93
Continuing operations - diluted $ 5.20 6.14 6.66
Discontinued operations - diluted $ 8.52 0.59 1.15
Total net earnings per share - diluted $ 13.72 6.73 7.81
Average shares outstanding (Notes 1 and 15)
Basic 2,533.5 2,625.2 2,632.1
Diluted 2,560.4 2,663.9 2,674.0
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
2023 Annual Report 45Johnson & Johnson and subsidiaries consolidated statements of
comprehensive income
(Dollars in Millions) (Note 1)
2023 2022 2021
Net earnings $ 35,153 17,941 20,878
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax
Foreign currency translation ( 3,221 ) ( 1,796 ) ( 1,079 )
Securities:
Unrealized holding gain (loss) arising during period 26 ( 24 ) ( 4 )
Reclassifications to earnings — — —
Net change 26 ( 24 ) ( 4 )
Employee benefit plans:
Prior service credit (cost), net of amortization ( 149 ) ( 160 ) ( 169 )
Gain (loss), net of amortization ( 1,183 ) 1,854 4,318
Consumer settlement/ curtailment 23 — —
Effect of exchange rates ( 90 ) 111 106
Net change ( 1,399 ) 1,805 4,255
Derivatives & hedges:
Unrealized gain (loss) arising during period 422 454 ( 199 )
Reclassifications to earnings ( 569 ) ( 348 ) ( 789 )
Net change ( 147 ) 106 ( 988 )
Other comprehensive income (loss) ( 4,741 ) 91 2,184
Comprehensive income $ 30,412 18,032 23,062
The tax effects in other comprehensive income for the fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021 respectively: Foreign Currency
Translation; $ 797 million, $ 460 million and $ 346 million; Employee Benefit Plans: $ 289 million, $ 461 million and $ 1,198 million,
Derivatives & Hedges: $ 39 million, $ 30 million and $ 263 million.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Amounts presented have not been recast to exclude discontinued operations
46Johnson & Johnson and subsidiaries consolidated statements
of equity
(Dollars in Millions) (Note 1)
Retained Accumulated Common
Earnings and Other Stock Treasury
Additional Comprehensive Issued Stock
Total paid-in capital Income (Loss) Amount Amount
Balance, January 3, 2021 $ 63,278 113,890 ( 15,242 ) 3,120 ( 38,490 )
Net earnings 20,878 20,878
Cash dividends paid ($ 4.19 per share) ( 11,032 ) ( 11,032 )
Employee compensation and stock option plans 2,171 ( 676 ) 2,847
Repurchase of common stock ( 3,456 ) ( 3,456 )
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax 2,184 2,184
Balance, January 2, 2022 74,023 123,060 ( 13,058 ) 3,120 ( 39,099 )
Net earnings 17,941 17,941
Cash dividends paid ($ 4.45 per share) ( 11,682 ) ( 11,682 )
Employee compensation and stock option plans 2,466 ( 974 ) 3,440
Repurchase of common stock ( 6,035 ) ( 6,035 )
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax 91 91
Balance, January 1, 2023 76,804 128,345 ( 12,967 ) 3,120 ( 41,694 )
Net earnings 35,153 35,153
Cash dividends paid ($ 4.70 per share) ( 11,770 ) ( 11,770 )
Employee compensation and stock option plans 2,193 ( 336 ) 2,529
Repurchase of common stock ( 5,054 ) ( 5,054 )
Other ( 25 ) ( 25 )
Kenvue Separation /IPO (Note 21) ( 23,786 ) 2,451 5,181 ( 31,418 )
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax ( 4,741 ) ( 4,741 )
Balance, December 31, 2023 $ 68,774 153,843 ( 12,527 ) 3,120 ( 75,662 )
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
2023 Annual Report 47Johnson & Johnson and subsidiaries consolidated statements of
cash flows
(Dollars in Millions) (Note 1)
2023 2022 2021
Cash flows from operating activities
Net earnings $ 35,153 17,941 20,878
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to cash flows from operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization of property and intangibles 7,486 6,970 7,390
Stock based compensation 1,162 1,138 1,135
Asset write-downs 1,295 1,216 989
Charge for purchase of in-process research and development assets 483 — —
Gain on Kenvue separation ( 20,984 ) — —
Net gain on sale of assets/businesses ( 117 ) ( 380 ) ( 617 )
Deferred tax provision ( 4,194 ) ( 1,663 ) ( 2,079 )
Credit losses and accounts receivable allowances — ( 17 ) ( 48 )
Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from acquisitions and divestitures:
Increase in accounts receivable ( 624 ) ( 1,290 ) ( 2,402 )
Increase in inventories ( 1,323 ) ( 2,527 ) ( 1,248 )
Increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities 2,346 1,098 2,437
(Increase)/Decrease in other current and non-current assets ( 3,480 ) 687 ( 1,964 )
Increase/(Decrease) in other current and non-current liabilities 5,588 ( 1,979 ) ( 1,061 )
Net cash flows from operating activities 22,791 21,194 23,410
Cash flows from investing activities
Additions to property, plant and equipment ( 4,543 ) ( 4,009 ) ( 3,652 )
Proceeds from the disposal of assets/businesses, net 358 543 711
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired (Note 18) — ( 17,652 ) ( 60 )
Purchases of in-process research and development assets (Note 18) ( 470 ) — —
Purchases of investments ( 10,906 ) ( 32,384 ) ( 30,394 )
Sales of investments 19,390 41,609 25,006
Credit support agreements activity, net ( 2,963 ) ( 249 ) 214
Other (including capitalized licenses and milestones) 12 ( 229 ) ( 508 )
Net cash from/(used) by investing activities 878 ( 12,371 ) ( 8,683 )
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends to shareholders ( 11,770 ) ( 11,682 ) ( 11,032 )
Repurchase of common stock ( 5,054 ) ( 6,035 ) ( 3,456 )
Proceeds from short-term debt 13,743 16,134 1,997
Repayment of short-term debt ( 22,973 ) ( 6,550 ) ( 1,190 )
Proceeds from long-term debt, net of issuance costs — 2 5
Repayment of long-term debt ( 1,551 ) ( 2,134 ) ( 1,802 )
Proceeds from the exercise of stock options/employee withholding tax on stock
awards, net 1,094 1,329 1,036
Credit support agreements activity, net ( 219 ) ( 28 ) 281
482023 2022 2021
Proceeds of short and long-term debt, net of issuance cost, related to the debt that
transferred to Kenvue at separation 8,047 — —
Proceeds from Kenvue initial public offering 4,241 — —
Cash transferred to Kenvue at separation ( 1,114 ) — —
Other ( 269 ) 93 114
Net cash used by financing activities ( 15,825 ) ( 8,871 ) ( 14,047 )
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents ( 112 ) ( 312 ) ( 178 )
Increase/(Decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 7,732 ( 360 ) 502
Cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations, beginning of period 12,889 13,309 12,697
Cash and cash equivalents from discontinued operations, beginning of period 1,238 1,178 1,288
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year (Note 1) 14,127 14,487 13,985
Cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations, end of period 21,859 12,889 13,309
Cash and cash equivalents from discontinued operations, end of period — 1,238 1,178
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year (Note 1) $ 21,859 14,127 14,487
Supplemental cash flow data
Cash paid during the year for:
Interest $ 1,836 982 990
Interest, net of amount capitalized 1,766 933 941
Income taxes, inclusive of discontinued operations 8,574 5,223 4,768
Supplemental schedule of non-cash investing and financing activities
Treasury stock issued for employee compensation and stock option plans, net of cash
proceeds/ employee withholding tax on stock awards $ 1,435 2,114 1,811
Acquisitions
Fair value of assets acquired $ — 18,710 61
Fair value of liabilities assumed — ( 1,058 ) ( 1 )
Net cash paid for acquisitions (Note 18) $ — 17,652 60
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Amounts presented have not been recast to exclude discontinued operations.
2023 Annual Report 49Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Summary of significant accounting policies
Principles of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries (the Company).
Intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated. Columns and rows within tables may not add due to rounding.
Percentages have been calculated using actual, non-rounded figures.
Description of the company and business segments
The Company has approximately 131,900 employees worldwide engaged in the research and development, manufacture and sale
of a broad range of products in the healthcare field. The Company conducts business in virtually all countries of the world and its
primary focus is on products related to human health and well-being.
Kenvue IPO/separation and discontinued operations
On May 8, 2023, Kenvue, completed an initial public offering (the IPO) resulting in the issuance of 198,734,444 shares of its
common stock, par value $ 0.01 per share (the “Kenvue Common Stock”), at an initial public offering of $ 22.00 per share for net
proceeds of $ 4.2 billion. The excess of the net proceeds from the IPO over the net book value of the Johnson & Johnson
divested interest was $ 2.5 billion and was recorded to additional paid-in capital. As of the closing of the IPO, Johnson & Johnson
owned approximately 89.6 % of the total outstanding shares of Kenvue Common Stock and at July 2, 2023, the non-controlling
interest of $ 1.3 billion associated with Kenvue was reflected in equity attributable to non-controlling interests in the consolidated
balance sheet in the fiscal second quarter of 2023.
On August 23, 2023, Johnson & Johnson completed the disposition of an additional 80.1 % ownership of the shares of Kenvue
through an exchange offer. Following the exchange offer, the Company owns 9.5 % of the shares of Kenvue which are accounted
for as an equity investment carried at fair value within continuing operations. The historical results of the Consumer Health
business (which previously represented the Consumer Health business segment) are reflected as discontinued operations in the
Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements through the date of the exchange offer (see Note 21 for additional details). Unless
otherwise indicated, the information in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements refer only to Johnson & Johnson’s
continuing operations.
Business segments
Following the completion of the exchange offer, the Company is organized into two business segments: Innovative Medicine and
MedTech. The Innovative Medicine segment is focused on the following therapeutic areas, including Immunology, Infectious
diseases, Neuroscience, Oncology, Pulmonary Hypertension, and Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases. Products in this
segment are distributed directly to retailers, wholesalers, distributors, hospitals and healthcare professionals for prescription use.
The MedTech segment includes a broad portfolio of products used in the Orthopaedic, Surgery, Interventional Solutions and Vision
fields. These products are distributed to wholesalers, hospitals and retailers, and used principally in the professional fields by
physicians, nurses, hospitals, eye care professionals and clinics.
New accounting standards
Recently adopted accounting standards
ASU 2022-04: Liabilities-Supplier Finance Programs (Topic 405-50) – Disclosure of Supplier Finance Program Obligations
The Company adopted the standard as of the beginning of fiscal year 2023, which requires that a buyer in a supplier finance
program disclose additional information about the program for financial statement users.
The Company has agreements for supplier finance programs with third-party financial institutions. These programs provide
participating suppliers the ability to finance payment obligations from the Company with the third-party financial institutions. The
Company is not a party to the arrangements between the suppliers and the third-party financial institutions. The Company’sobligations to its suppliers, including amounts due, and scheduled payment dates (which have general payment terms of 90 days),
are not affected by a participating supplier’s decision to participate in the program.
50As of both December 31, 2023, and January 1, 2023, $ 0.7 billion were valid obligations under the program. The obligations are
presented as Accounts payable on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Recently issued accounting standards
Not adopted as of December 31, 2023
ASU 2023-07: Segment Reporting (Topic 280) – Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures
This update requires expanded annual and interim disclosures for significant segment expenses that are regularly provided to the
chief operating decision maker and included within each reported measure of segment profit or loss. This update will be effective
for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023, and is to be applied retrospectively to all periods presented in the financial
statements. Early adoption is permitted. As this accounting standard only impacts disclosures, it will not have a material impact on
the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
ASU 2023-09: Income Taxes (Topic 740) - Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures
This update standardizes categories for the effective tax rate reconciliation, requires disaggregation of income taxes and additional
income tax-related disclosures. This update is required to be effective for the Company for fiscal periods beginning after December
15, 2024. As this accounting standard only impacts disclosures, it will not have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated
Financial Statements.
Cash equivalents
The Company classifies all highly liquid investments with stated maturities of three months or less from date of purchase as cash
equivalents and all highly liquid investments with stated maturities of greater than three months from the date of purchase as
current marketable securities. The Company has a policy of making investments only with commercial institutions that have at
least an investment grade credit rating. The Company invests its cash primarily in government securities and obligations, corporate
debt securities, money market funds and reverse repurchase agreements (RRAs).
RRAs are collateralized by deposits in the form of Government Securities and Obligations for an amount not less than 102 % of
their value. The Company does not record an asset or liability as the Company is not permitted to sell or repledge the associated
collateral. The Company has a policy that the collateral has at least an A (or equivalent) credit rating. The Company utilizes a third
party custodian to manage the exchange of funds and ensure that collateral received is maintained at 102 % of the value of the
RRAs on a daily basis. RRAs with stated maturities of greater than three months from the date of purchase are classified as
marketable securities.
Investments
Investments classified as held to maturity investments are reported at amortized cost and realized gains or losses are reported in
earnings. Investments classified as available-for-sale debt securities are carried at estimated fair value with unrealized gains and
losses recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Available-for-sale securities available for current
operations are classified as current assets; otherwise, they are classified as long term. Management determines the appropriate
classification of its investment in debt and equity securities at the time of purchase and re-evaluates such determination at each
balance sheet date. The Company reviews its investments for impairment and adjusts these investments to fair value through
earnings, as required.
Property, plant and equipment and depreciation
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. The Company utilizes the straight-line method of depreciation over the estimated
useful lives of the assets:
30 years
Building and building equipment
10 - 20 years
Land and leasehold improvements
2 - 13 years
Machinery and equipment
The Company capitalizes certain computer software and development costs, included in machinery and equipment, when incurredin connection with developing or obtaining computer software for internal use. Capitalized software costs are amortized over the
estimated useful lives of the software, which generally range from 3 to 8 years.
The Company reviews long-lived assets to assess recoverability using undiscounted cash flows. When certain events or changes
in operating or economic conditions occur, an impairment assessment may be performed on the recoverability of the
2023 Annual Report 51carrying value of these assets. If the asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between
the asset’s fair value and its carrying value. If quoted market prices are not available, the Company will estimate fair value using a
discounted value of estimated future cash flows.
Revenue recognition
The Company recognizes revenue from product sales when obligations under the terms of a contract with the customer are
satisfied; generally, this occurs with the transfer of control of the goods to customers. The Company's global payment terms are
typically between 30 to 90 days. Provisions for certain rebates, sales incentives, trade promotions, coupons, product returns,
discounts to customers and governmental clawback provisions are accounted for as variable consideration and recorded as a
reduction in sales. The liability is recognized within Accrued rebates, returns, and promotions on the consolidated balance sheet.
Product discounts granted are based on the terms of arrangements with direct, indirect and other market participants, as well as
market conditions, including consideration of competitor pricing. Rebates are estimated based on contractual terms, historical
experience, patient outcomes, trend analysis and projected market conditions in the various markets served. A significant portion
of the liability related to rebates is from the sale of the Company's pharmaceutical products within the U.S., primarily the Managed
Care, Medicare and Medicaid programs, which amounted to $ 11.5 billion and $ 9.6 billion as of December 31, 2023 and
January 1, 2023, respectively. The Company evaluates market conditions for products or groups of products primarily through the
analysis of wholesaler and other third-party sell-through and market research data, as well as internally generated information.
Sales returns are estimated and recorded based on historical sales and returns information. Products that exhibit unusual sales or
return patterns due to dating, competition or other marketing matters are specifically investigated and analyzed as part of the
accounting for sales return accruals.
Sales returns allowances represent a reserve for products that may be returned due to expiration, destruction in the field, or in
specific areas, product recall. The sales returns reserve is based on historical return trends by product and by market as a percent
to gross sales. In accordance with the Company’s accounting policies, the Company generally issues credit to customers for
returned goods. The Company’s sales returns reserves are accounted for in accordance with the U.S. GAAP guidance for revenue
recognition when right of return exists. Sales returns reserves are recorded at full sales value. Sales returns in the Innovative
Medicine segments are almost exclusively not resalable. Sales returns for certain franchises in the MedTech segment are typically
resalable but are not material. The Company infrequently exchanges products from inventory for returned products. The sales
returns reserve for the total Company has been less than 1.0 % of annual net trade sales during each of the fiscal
years 2023, 2022 and 2021.
Promotional programs, such as product listing allowances are recorded in the same period as related sales and include
volume-based sales incentive programs. Volume-based incentive programs are based on the estimated sales volumes for the
incentive period and are recorded as products are sold. These arrangements are evaluated to determine the appropriate amounts
to be deferred or recorded as a reduction of revenue. The Company also earns profit-share payments through collaborative
arrangements of certain products, which are included in sales to customers. Profit-share payments were less than 2.0 % of the
total revenues in fiscal year 2023 and less than 3.0 % of the total revenues in the fiscal years 2022 and 2021 and are included in
sales to customers.
See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further disaggregation of revenue.
Shipping and handling
Shipping and handling costs incurred were $ 0.9 billion, $ 0.8 billion and $ 0.8 billion in fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021,
respectively, and are included in selling, marketing and administrative expense. The amount of revenue received for shipping and
handling is less than 1.0 % of sales to customers for all periods presented.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value determined by the first-in, first-out method.
Intangible assets and goodwill
The authoritative literature on U.S. GAAP requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives be assessed annually for
impairment. The Company completed its annual impairment test for 2023 in the fiscal fourth quarter. Future impairment
52tests will be performed annually in the fiscal fourth quarter, or sooner if warranted. Purchased in-process research and
development is accounted for as an indefinite lived intangible asset until the underlying project is completed, at which point the
intangible asset will be accounted for as a definite lived intangible asset. If warranted the purchased in-process research and
development could be written off or partially impaired depending on the underlying program.
Intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be amortized over their useful lives, and are reviewed for impairment
when warranted by economic conditions. See Note 5 for further details on Intangible Assets and Goodwill.
Financial instruments
As required by U.S. GAAP, all derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. Fair value is the exit
price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability. Fair value is a market-based measurement determined
using assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. The authoritative literature establishes a
three-level hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used in measuring fair value, with Level 1 having the highest priority and Level 3
having the lowest. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period in current earnings or other comprehensive
income, depending on whether the derivative is designated as part of a hedge transaction, and if so, the type of hedge transaction.
The Company documents all relationships between hedged items and derivatives. The overall risk management strategy includes
reasons for undertaking hedge transactions and entering into derivatives. The objectives of this strategy are: (1) minimize foreign
currency exposure’s impact on the Company’s financial performance; (2) protect the Company’s cash flow from adverse
movements in foreign exchange rates; (3) ensure the appropriateness of financial instruments; and (4) manage the enterprise risk
associated with financial institutions. See Note 6 for additional information on Financial Instruments.
Leases
The Company determines whether an arrangement is a lease at contract inception by establishing if the contract conveys the right
to control the use of identified property, plant, or equipment for a period of time in exchange for consideration. Right of Use (ROU)
Assets and Lease Liabilities for operating leases are included in Other assets , Accrued liabilities , and Other liabilities on the
consolidated balance sheet. The ROU Assets represent the right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities
represent an obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Commitments under finance leases are not significant, and
are included in Property, plant and equipment, Loans and notes payable, and Long-term debt on the consolidated balance sheet.
ROU Assets and Lease Liabilities are recognized at the lease commencement date based on the present value of all minimum
lease payments over the lease term. The Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at
commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments, when the implicit rate is not readily determinable. Lease
terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease. These options are included in the lease term when it is reasonably
certain that the Company will exercise that option. Operating lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease
term. The Company has elected the following policy elections on adoption: use of portfolio approach on leases of assets under
master service agreements, exclusion of short term leases on the balance sheet, and not separating lease and non-lease
components.
The Company primarily has operating lease for space, vehicles, manufacturing equipment and data processing equipment. The
ROU asset pertaining to leases from continuing operation was $ 1.0 billion in both fiscal years 2023 and 2022. The lease liability
from continuing operations was $ 1.1 billion in both fiscal years 2023 and 2022. The operating lease costs from continuing
operations were $ 0.2 billion in fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021. Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease
liabilities from continuing operations were $ 0.2 billion in fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021.
Product liability
Accruals for product liability claims are recorded, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a liability has been incurred
and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated based on existing information and actuarially determined estimates
where applicable. The accruals are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available. The Company accrues an
estimate of the legal defense costs needed to defend each matter when those costs are probable and can be reasonably
estimated. To the extent adverse verdicts have been rendered against the Company, the Company does not record an accrual until
a loss is determined to be probable and can be reasonably estimated.
2023 Annual Report 53The Company has self insurance through a wholly-owned captive insurance company. In addition to accruals in the self insurance
program, claims that exceed the insurance coverage are accrued when losses are probable and amounts can be reasonably
estimated.
Research and development
Research and development expenses are expensed as incurred in accordance with ASC 730, Research and Development. Upfront
and milestone payments made to third parties in connection with research and development collaborations are expensed as
incurred up to the point of regulatory approval. Payments made to third parties subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized
and amortized over the remaining useful life of the related product. Amounts capitalized for such payments are included in other
intangibles, net of accumulated amortization.
The Company enters into collaborative arrangements, typically with other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, to develop
and commercialize drug candidates or intellectual property. These arrangements typically involve two (or more) parties who are
active participants in the collaboration and are exposed to significant risks and rewards dependent on the commercial success of
the activities. These collaborations usually involve various activities by one or more parties, including research and development,
marketing and selling and distribution. Often, these collaborations require upfront, milestone and royalty or profit share payments,
contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events linked to the success of the asset in development. Amounts due from
collaborative partners related to development activities are generally reflected as a reduction of research and development
expense because the performance of contract development services is not central to the Company’s operations. In general, the
income statement presentation for these collaborations is as follows:
Nature/Type of Collaboration Statement of Earnings Presentation
Third-party sale of product & profit share payments received Sales to customers
Royalties/milestones paid to collaborative partner (post- Cost of products sold
regulatory approval)*
Royalties received from collaborative partner Other income (expense), net
Upfront payments & milestones paid to collaborative partner Research and development expense
(pre-regulatory approval)
Research and development payments to collaborative partner Research and development expense
Research and development payments received from Reduction of Research and development expense
collaborative partner or government entity
* Milestones are capitalized as intangible assets and amortized to cost of products sold over the useful life.
For all years presented, there was no individual project that represented greater than 5 % of the total annual consolidated research
and development expense.
The Company has a number of products and compounds developed in collaboration with strategic partners including XARELTO,
co-developed with Bayer HealthCare AG and IMBRUVICA, developed in collaboration and co-marketed with Pharmacyclics LLC,
an AbbVie company.
Separately, the Company has a number of licensing arrangements for products and compounds including DARZALEX, licensed
from Genmab A/S.
Advertising
Costs associated with advertising are expensed in the year incurred and are included in selling, marketing and administrative
expenses. Advertising expenses worldwide, which comprised television, radio, print media and Internet advertising, were $ 0.5
billion, $ 0.7 billion and $ 1.2 billion in fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
Income taxes
Income taxes are recorded based on amounts refundable or payable for the current year and include the results of any difference
between U.S. GAAP accounting and tax reporting, recorded as deferred tax assets or liabilities. The Company
54estimates deferred tax assets and liabilities based on enacted tax regulations and rates. Future changes in tax laws and rates may
affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future.
The Company has unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions. The Company follows U.S. GAAP which prescribes a
recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or
expected to be taken in a tax return. Management believes that changes in these estimates would not have a material effect on
the Company's results of operations, cash flows or financial position.
In 2017, the United States enacted into law new U.S. tax legislation, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA). This law included
provisions for a comprehensive overhaul of the corporate income tax code, including a reduction of the statutory corporate tax rate
from 35 % to 21 %, effective on January 1, 2018. The TCJA included a provision for a tax on all previously undistributed earnings
of U.S. companies located in foreign jurisdictions. Undistributed earnings in the form of cash and cash equivalents were taxed at a
rate of 15.5 % and all other earnings were taxed at a rate of 8.0 %. This tax is payable over 8 years and will not accrue interest.
These payments began in 2018 and will continue through 2025. The remaining balance at the end of the 2023 was approximately
$ 4.5 billion, of which $ 2.5 billion is classified as noncurrent and reflected as “Long-term taxes payable” on the Company’s
balance sheet.
The TCJA also includes provisions for a tax on global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI). GILTI is described as the excess of a
U.S. shareholder’s total net foreign income over a deemed return on tangible assets, as provided by the TCJA. In January 2018,
the FASB issued guidance that allows companies to elect as an accounting policy whether to record the tax effects of GILTI in the
period the tax liability is generated (i.e., “period cost”) or provide for deferred tax assets and liabilities related to basis differences
that exist and are expected to effect the amount of GILTI inclusion in future years upon reversal (i.e., “deferred method”). The
Company has elected to account for GILTI under the deferred method. The deferred tax amounts recorded are based on the
evaluation of temporary differences that are expected to reverse as GILTI is incurred in future periods.
The Company has recorded deferred tax liabilities on all undistributed earnings prior to December 31, 2017 from its international
subsidiaries. The Company has not provided deferred taxes on the undistributed earnings subsequent to January 1, 2018 from
certain international subsidiaries where the earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested. The Company intends to continue
to reinvest these earnings in those international operations. If the Company decides at a later date to repatriate these earnings to
the U.S., the Company would be required to provide for the net tax effects on these amounts. The Company estimates that the tax
effect of this repatriation would be approximately $ 0.5 billion under currently enacted tax laws and regulations and at current
currency exchange rates. This amount does not include the possible benefit of U.S. foreign tax credits, which may substantially
offset this cost.
See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes.
Net earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net earnings available to common shareholders by the weighted average number
of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities
were exercised or converted into common stock using the treasury stock method.
Use of estimates
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported. Estimates are used when
accounting for sales discounts, rebates, allowances and incentives, product liabilities, income taxes, withholding taxes,
depreciation, amortization, employee benefits, contingencies and intangible asset and liability valuations. Actual results may or may
not differ from those estimates.
The Company follows the provisions of U.S. GAAP when recording litigation related contingencies. A liability is recorded when a
loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. The best estimate of a loss within a range is accrued; however, if no estimate
in the range is better than any other, the minimum amount is accrued.
Annual closing date
The Company follows the concept of a fiscal year, which ends on the Sunday nearest to the end of the month of December.
Normally each fiscal year consists of 52 weeks, but every five or six years the fiscal year consists of 53 weeks, and therefore
includes additional shipping days, as was the case in fiscal year 2020, and will be the case again in fiscal year 2026.2023 Annual Report 552. Cash, cash equivalents and current marketable securities
At the end of the fiscal year 2023 and 2022, cash, cash equivalents and current marketable securities comprised:
2023
Current
Carrying Unrecognized Estimated Cash & Cash Marketable
(Dollars in Millions) Amount Loss Fair Value Equivalents Securities
Cash $ 3,340 — 3,340 3,340 —
Non-U.S. Sovereign Securities (1) 522 — 522 174 348
U.S. Reverse repurchase agreements 4,377 — 4,377 4,377 —
Corporate debt securities (1) 338 — 338 189 149
Money market funds 4,814 — 4,814 4,814 —
Time deposits (1) 662 — 662 662 —
Subtotal $ 14,053 — 14,053 13,556 497
U.S. Gov't Securities $ 8,562 — 8,562 8,259 303
U.S. Gov't Agencies 71 ( 1 ) 70 — 70
Other Sovereign Securities 5 — 5 1 4
Corporate and other debt securities 237 — 237 43 194
Subtotal available for sale (2) $ 8,875 ( 1 ) 8,874 8,303 571
Total cash, cash equivalents and
current marketable securities $ 21,859 1,068
2022
Current
Carrying Unrecognized Estimated Cash & Cash Marketable
(Dollars in Millions) Amount Loss Fair Value Equivalents Securities
Cash $ 3,691 — 3,691 3,691 —
U.S. Reverse repurchase agreements 1,419 — 1,419 1,419 —
Corporate debt securities (1) 873 ( 1 ) 872 — 873
Money market funds 5,368 — 5,368 5,368 —
Time deposits (1) 443 — 443 443 —
Subtotal 11,794 ( 1 ) 11,793 10,921 873
U.S. Gov't Securities $ 9,959 ( 28 ) 9,931 1,922 8,009
U.S. Gov't Agencies 210 ( 5 ) 205 — 205
Corporate and other debt securities 352 ( 1 ) 351 46 305
Subtotal available for sale (2) $ 10,521 ( 34 ) 10,487 1,968 8,519
Total cash, cash equivalents and
current marketable securities $ 12,889 9,392
(1) Held to maturity investments are reported at amortized cost and realized gains or losses are reported in earnings.
(2) Available for sale debt securities are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported net of taxes in other comprehensive income.
Fair value of government securities and obligations and corporate debt securities were estimated using quoted broker prices and
significant other observable inputs.
56The contractual maturities of the available for sale debt securities at December 31, 2023 are as follows:
(Dollars in Millions) Cost Basis Fair Value
Due within one year $ 8,865 8,864
Due after one year through five years 10 10
Due after five years through ten years — —
Total debt securities $ 8,875 8,874
The Company invests its excess cash in both deposits with major banks throughout the world and other high-quality money market
instruments. The Company has a policy of making investments only with commercial institutions that have at least an investment
grade credit rating.
3. Inventories
At the end of fiscal years 2023 and 2022, inventories comprised:
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022
Raw materials and supplies $ 2,355 1,719
Goods in process 1,952 1,577
Finished goods 6,874 6,972
Total inventories $ 11,181 10,268
4. Property, plant and equipment
At the end of fiscal years 2023 and 2022, property, plant and equipment at cost and accumulated depreciation were:
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022
Land and land improvements $ 795 784
Buildings and building equipment 12,375 11,470
Machinery and equipment 28,979 26,603
Construction in progress 5,627 4,677
Total property, plant and equipment, gross $ 47,776 43,534
Less accumulated depreciation 27,878 25,552
Total property, plant and equipment, net $ 19,898 17,982
The Company capitalizes interest expense as part of the cost of construction of facilities and equipment. Interest expense
capitalized in fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021 was $ 70 million, $ 49 million and $ 49 million, respectively.
Depreciation expense, including the amortization of capitalized interest in fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021 was $ 2.6 billion, $ 2.4
billion and $ 2.4 billion, respectively.
Upon retirement or other disposal of property, plant and equipment, the costs and related amounts of accumulated depreciation or
amortization are eliminated from the asset and accumulated depreciation accounts, respectively. The difference, if any, between
the net asset value and the proceeds are recorded in earnings.
2023 Annual Report 575. Intangible assets and goodwill
At the end of fiscal years 2023 and 2022, the gross and net amounts of intangible assets were:
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022
Intangible assets with definite lives:
Patents and trademarks — gross $ 40,417 39,388
Less accumulated amortization ( 24,808 ) ( 20,616 )
Patents and trademarks — net $ 15,609 18,772
Customer relationships and other intangibles — gross $ 20,322 19,764
Less accumulated amortization ( 12,685 ) ( 11,363 )
Customer relationships and other intangibles — net( 1) $ 7,637 8,401
Intangible assets with indefinite lives:
Trademarks $ 1,714 1,630
Purchased in-process research and development 9,215 9,686
Total intangible assets with indefinite lives $ 10,929 11,316
Total intangible assets — net $ 34,175 38,489
(1) The majority is comprised of customer relationships
Goodwill as of December 31, 2023 and January 1, 2023, as allocated by segment of business, was as follows:
Innovative
(Dollars in Millions) Medicine MedTech Total
Goodwill at January 2, 2022 $ 10,580 14,856 25,436
Goodwill, related to acquisitions — 11,056 11,056
Goodwill, related to divestitures — — —
Currency translation/other ( 396 ) ( 49 ) ( 445 )
Goodwill at January 1, 2023 10,184 25,863 36,047
Goodwill, related to acquisitions — — —
Goodwill, related to divestitures — — —
Currency translation/other 223 288 * 511
Goodwill at December 31, 2023 $ 10,407 26,151 36,558
*Includes purchase price allocation adjustments for Abiomed
The weighted average amortization period for patents and trademarks is approximately 11 years. The weighted average
amortization period for customer relationships and other intangible assets is approximately 19 years. The amortization expense of
amortizable assets included in Cost of products sold was $ 4.5 billion, $ 3.9 billion and $ 4.2 billion before tax, for the fiscal years
ended December 31, 2023, January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022, respectively. Intangible asset write-downs are included in Other
(income) expense, net.
The estimated amortization expense related to intangible assets for approved products, before tax, for the five succeeding years is
approximately:
(Dollars in Millions)
2024 2025 2026 2027 2028
$ 4,300 3,500 2,900 2,300 1,600
See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details related to acquisitions and divestitures.586. Fair value measurements
The Company uses forward foreign exchange contracts to manage its exposure to the variability of cash flows, primarily related to
the foreign exchange rate changes of future intercompany products and third-party purchases of materials denominated in a
foreign currency. The Company uses cross currency interest rate swaps to manage currency risk primarily related to borrowings.
Both types of derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges.
Additionally, the Company primarily uses interest rate swaps as an instrument to manage interest rate risk related to fixed rate
borrowings. These derivatives are designated as fair value hedges. The Company uses cross currency interest rate swaps and
forward foreign exchange contracts designated as net investment hedges. Additionally, the Company uses forward foreign
exchange contracts to offset its exposure to certain foreign currency assets and liabilities. These forward foreign exchange
contracts are not designated as hedges and therefore, changes in the fair values of these derivatives are recognized in earnings,
thereby offsetting the current earnings effect of the related foreign currency assets and liabilities.
The Company does not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes, or that contain credit risk
related contingent features. The Company maintains credit support agreements (CSA) with certain derivative counterparties
establishing collateral thresholds based on respective credit ratings and netting agreements. As of December 31, 2023 and
January 1, 2023, the total amount of cash collateral paid by the Company under the CSA amounted to $ 4.0 billion and $ 0.8
billion net respectively, related to net investment and cash flow hedges. On an ongoing basis, the Company monitors counter-party
credit ratings. The Company considers credit non-performance risk to be low, because the Company primarily enters into
agreements with commercial institutions that have at least an investment grade credit rating. Refer to the table on significant
financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value contained in this footnote for receivables and payables with these commercial
institutions. As of December 31, 2023, the Company had notional amounts outstanding for forward foreign exchange contracts,
cross currency interest rate swaps and interest rate swaps of $ 42.9 billion, $ 39.7 billion and $ 10.0 billion, respectively. As of
January 1, 2023, the Company had notional amounts outstanding for forward foreign exchange contracts, cross currency interest
rate swaps and interest rate swaps of $ 41.5 billion, $ 36.2 billion and $ 10.0 billion, respectively.
All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded
each period in current earnings or other comprehensive income, depending on whether the derivative is designated as part of a
hedge transaction, and if so, the type of hedge transaction.
The designation as a cash flow hedge is made at the entrance date of the derivative contract. At inception, all derivatives are
expected to be highly effective. Foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges are accounted for under the forward
method and all gains/losses associated with these contracts will be recognized in the income statement when the hedged item
impacts earnings. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income until
the underlying transaction affects earnings, and are then reclassified to earnings in the same account as the hedged transaction.
Gains and losses associated with interest rate swaps and changes in fair value of hedged debt attributable to changes in interest
rates are recorded to interest expense in the period in which they occur. Gains and losses on net investment hedges are
accounted through the currency translation account within accumulated other comprehensive income. The portion excluded from
effectiveness testing is recorded through interest (income) expense using the spot method. On an ongoing basis, the Company
assesses whether each derivative continues to be highly effective in offsetting changes of hedged items. If and when a derivative
is no longer expected to be highly effective, hedge accounting is discontinued.
The Company designated its Euro denominated notes issued in May 2016 with due dates ranging from 2022 to 2035 as a net
investment hedge of the Company's investments in certain of its international subsidiaries that use the Euro as their functional
currency in order to reduce the volatility caused by changes in exchange rates.
As of December 31, 2023, the balance of deferred net loss on derivatives included in accumulated other comprehensive income
was $ 377 million after-tax. For additional information, see the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income and Note 13.
The Company expects that substantially all of the amounts related to forward foreign exchange contracts will be reclassified into
earnings over the next 12 months as a result of transactions that are expected to occur over that period. The maximum length of
time over which the Company is hedging transaction exposure is 18 months, excluding interest rate contracts and net investment
hedges. The amount ultimately realized in earnings may differ as foreign exchange rates change. Realized gains and losses are
ultimately determined by actual exchange rates at maturity of the derivative.
2023 Annual Report 59The following table is a summary of the activity related to derivatives and hedges for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2023
and January 1, 2023, net of tax:
December 31, 2023 January 1, 2023
Cost of Interest Other Cost of Interest Other
Products R&D (Income) (Income) Products R&D (Income) (Income)
(Dollars in Millions) Sales Sold Expense Expense Expense Sales Sold Expense Expense Expense
The effects of fair value,
net investment and cash
flow hedging:
Gain (Loss) on fair value
hedging relationship:
Interest rate swaps
contracts:
Hedged items $ — — — ( 930 ) — — — — ( 1,098 ) —
Derivatives designated as
hedging instruments — — — 930 — — — — 1,098 —
Gain (Loss) on net
investment hedging
relationship:
Cross currency interest
rate swaps contracts:
Amount of gain or (loss)
recognized in income on
derivative amount
excluded from
effectiveness testing $ — — — 130 — — — — 140 —
Amount of gain or (loss)
recognized in AOCI — — — 130 — — — — 140 —
Gain (Loss) on cash flow
hedging relationship:
Forward foreign
exchange contracts:
Amount of gain or (loss)
reclassified from AOCI into
income 7 186 ( 37 ) — 8 ( 72 ) ( 271 ) 149 — ( 23 )
Amount of gain or (loss)
recognized in AOCI 10 447 ( 18 ) — 9 5 319 61 — ( 113 )
Cross currency interest
rate swaps contracts:
Amount of gain or (loss)
reclassified from AOCI into
income — — — 275 — — — — 425 —
Amount of gain or (loss)
recognized in AOCI $ — — — ( 156 ) — — — — 42 —
As of December 31, 2023 and January 1, 2023, the following amounts were recorded on the consolidated balance sheet related to
cumulative basis adjustment for fair value hedges
60Cumulative Amount of Fair Value Hedging
Line item in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in Adjustment Included in the Carrying
which the hedged item is included Carrying Amount of the Hedged Liability Amount of the Hedged Liability
(Dollars in Millions) December 31, 2023 January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023 January 1, 2023
Long-term Debt $ 8,862 $ 8,665 $( 1,216 ) $( 1,435 )
The following table is the effect of derivatives not designated as hedging instrument for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2023
and January 1, 2023:
Location of Gain /(Loss) Gain/(Loss)
Recognized in Income on Recognized In
(Dollars in Millions) Derivative Income on Derivative
Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments December 31, 2023 January 1, 2023
Foreign Exchange Contracts Other (income) expense $( 60 ) 94
The following table is the effect of net investment hedges for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2023 and January 1, 2023:
Location of Gain or (Loss)
Gain/(Loss) Reclassified from Accumulated Gain/(Loss) Reclassified From
Recognized In Other Comprehensive Income Accumulated OCI
Accumulated OCI Into Income Into Income
December 31, January 1, December 31, January 1,
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2023 2023 2023
Debt $( 131 ) 197 Interest (income) expense — —
Cross Currency interest $ 642 766 Interest (income) expense — —
rate swaps
The Company holds equity investments with readily determinable fair values and equity investments without readily determinable
fair values. The Company measures equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values at cost minus impairment,
if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or a similar
investment of the same issuer.
The following table is a summary of the activity related to equity investments for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2023 and
January 1, 2023:
January 1, 2023 December 31, 2023
Changes in Fair
Sales/
Value Reflected in Non Current
Purchases/Other
(Dollars in Millions) Carrying Value Net Income (1) (2) Carrying Value Other Assets
Equity Investments with readily $ 576 ( 368 ) 4,265 4,473 4,473
determinable value *
Equity Investments without $ 613 1 82 696 696
readily determinable value
2023 Annual Report 61January 2, 2022 January 1, 2023
Changes in Fair
Sales/
Value Reflected in Non Current
Purchases/Other
(Dollars in Millions) Carrying Value Net Income (1) (2) Carrying Value Other Assets
Equity Investments with readily
determinable value $ 1,884 ( 538 ) ( 770 ) 576 576
Equity Investments without
readily determinable value $ 413 93 107 613 613
(1) Recorded in Other Income/Expense
(2) Other includes impact of currency
* Includes the 9.5 % remaining stake in Kenvue and the $ 0.4 billion unfavorable change in fair value of the investment between separation date and
the end of the fiscal year.
For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2023 and January 1, 2023 for equity investments without readily determinable market
values, $ 1 million and $ 51 million, respectively, of the changes in fair value reflected in net income were the result of
impairments. There were offsetting impacts of $ 27 million and $ 142 million, respectively, of changes in the fair value reflected in
net income due to changes in observable prices and gains on the disposal of investments.
Fair value is the exit price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability. Fair value is a market-based
measurement determined using assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. In accordance with
ASC 820, a three-level hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used in measuring fair value. The levels within the hierarchy are described
below with Level 1 having the highest priority and Level 3 having the lowest.
The fair value of a derivative financial instrument (i.e., forward foreign exchange contracts, interest rate contracts) is the
aggregation by currency of all future cash flows discounted to its present value at the prevailing market interest rates and
subsequently converted to the U.S. Dollar at the current spot foreign exchange rate. The Company does not believe that fair
values of these derivative instruments materially differ from the amounts that could be realized upon settlement or maturity, or that
the changes in fair value will have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. The
Company also holds equity investments which are classified as Level 1 and debt securities which are classified as Level 2. The
Company holds acquisition related contingent liabilities based upon certain regulatory and commercial events, which are classified
as Level 3, whose values are determined using discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques for which the
determination of fair value requires significant judgment or estimations.
The following three levels of inputs are used to measure fair value:
Level 1 — Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
Level 2 — Significant other observable inputs.
Level 3 — Significant unobservable inputs.
62The Company’s significant financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value as of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023
and January 1, 2023 were as follows:
2023 2022
(Dollars in Millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Total (1)
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments:
Assets:
Forward foreign exchange contracts $ — 539 — 539 629
Interest rate contracts (2) — 988 — 988 1,534
Total $ — 1,527 — 1,527 2,163
Liabilities:
Forward foreign exchange contracts — 624 — 624 511
Interest rate contracts (2) — 5,338 — 5,338 2,778
Total $ — 5,962 — 5,962 3,289
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:
Assets:
Forward foreign exchange contracts $ — 64 — 64 38
Liabilities:
Forward foreign exchange contracts — 75 — 75 68
Available For Sale Other Investments:
Equity investments (3) 4,473 — — 4,473 576
Debt securities (4) — 8,874 — 8,874 10,487
Other Liabilities
Contingent Consideration (5) $ 1,092 1,092 1,120
Gross to Net Derivative Reconciliation 2023 2022
(Dollars in Millions)
Total Gross Assets $ 1,591 2,201
Credit Support Agreements (CSA) ( 1,575 ) ( 2,176 )
Total Net Asset 16 25
Total Gross Liabilities 6,037 3,357
Credit Support Agreements (CSA) ( 5,604 ) ( 3,023 )
Total Net Liabilities $ 433 334
2023 Annual Report 63Summarized information about changes in liabilities for contingent consideration is as follows:
2023 2022 2021
(Dollars in Millions)
Beginning Balance $ 1,120 533 633
Changes in estimated fair value 29 ( 194 ) ( 52 )
Additions (6)
— 792 —
Payments/Other ( 57 ) ( 11 ) ( 48 )
Ending Balance (5)
$ 1,092 1,120 533
(1) 2022 assets and liabilities are all classified as Level 2 with the exception of equity investments of $ 576 million, which are classified as Level 1 and
contingent consideration of $ 1,120 million, classified as Level 3.
(2) Includes cross currency interest rate swaps and interest rate swaps.
(3) Classified as non-current other assets.
(4) Classified as cash equivalents and current marketable securities.
(5) Includes $ 1,092 million, $ 1,116 million and $ 520 million, classified as non-current other liabilities as of December 31, 2023, January 1, 2023 and
January 2, 2022, respectively. Includes $ 4 million and $ 13 million classified as current liabilities as of January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022,
respectively.
(6) In fiscal year 2022, the Company recorded $ 704 million of contingent consideration related to Abiomed.
See Notes 2 and 7 for financial assets and liabilities held at carrying amount on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
647. Borrowings
The components of long-term debt are as follows:
Effective Effective
Rate Rate
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 % 2022 %
6.73 % Debentures due 2023 $ — — % $ 250 6.73 %
3.375 % Notes due 2023 — — 801 3.17
2.05 % Notes due 2023 — — 500 2.09
0.650 % Notes due 2024
( 750 MM Euro 1.1090 ) (2) /( 750 MM Euro 1.0651 ) (3) 831(2) 0.68 792(3) 0.68
5.50 % Notes due 2024
( 500 MM 1.2756 GBP ) (2) /( 500 MM GBP 1.2037 ) (3) 637(2) 6.75 600(3) 6.75
2.625 % Notes due 2025 750 2.63 749 2.63
0.55 % Notes due 2025 950 0.57 918 0.57
2.46 % Notes due 2026 1,997 2.47 1,996 2.47
2.95 % Notes due 2027 900 2.96 877 2.96
0.95 % Notes due 2027 1,419 0.96 1,394 0.96
1.150 % Notes due 2028
( 750 MM Euro 1.1090 ) (2) /( 750 MM Euro 1.0651 ) (3) 828(2) 1.21 794(3) 1.21
2.90 % Notes due 2028 1,497 2.91 1,496 2.91
6.95 % Notes due 2029 298 7.14 298 7.14
1.30 % Notes due 2030 1,630 1.30 1,607 1.30
4.95 % Debentures due 2033 499 4.95 498 4.95
4.375 % Notes due 2033 854 4.24 854 4.24
1.650 % Notes due 2035
( 1.5 B Euro 1.1090 ) (2) /( 1.5 B Euro 1.0651 ) (3) 1,652(2) 1.68 1,591(3) 1.68
3.587 % Notes due 2036 864 3.59 842 3.59
5.95 % Notes due 2037 994 5.99 993 5.99
3.625 % Notes due 2037 1,357 3.64 1,336 3.64
5.85 % Debentures due 2038 697 5.85 697 5.85
3.400 % Notes due 2038 993 3.42 992 3.42
4.50 % Debentures due 2040 541 4.63 540 4.63
2.10 % Notes due 2040 849 2.14 828 2.14
4.85 % Notes due 2041 297 4.89 297 4.89
4.50 % Notes due 2043 496 4.52 496 4.52
3.73 % Notes due 2046 1,977 3.74 1,976 3.74
3.75 % Notes due 2047 832 3.76 812 3.76
3.500 % Notes due 2048 743 3.52 743 3.52
2.250 % Notes due 2050 826 2.29 808 2.29
2.450 % Notes due 2060 1,073 2.49 1,055 2.49
Other 69 — 7 —
Subtotal 27,350(4) 2.98 %(1) 28,437(4) 3.04 %(1)
Less current portion 1,469 1,551
Total long-term debt $ 25,881 $ 26,886(1) Weighted average effective rate.
2023 Annual Report 65(2) Translation rate at December 31, 2023.
(3) Translation rate at January 1, 2023.
(4) The excess of the carrying value over the fair value of debt was $ 1.0 billion and $ 1.6 billion at the end of fiscal year 2023 and fiscal year 2022,
respectively.
Fair value of the long-term debt was estimated using market prices, which were corroborated by quoted broker prices and
significant other observable inputs.
The Company has access to substantial sources of funds at numerous banks worldwide. In September 2023, the Company
secured a new 364-day Credit Facility of $ 10 billion, which expires on September 5, 2024. The Company early terminated the
additional 364-day revolving Credit Facility of $ 10 billion, which had an expiration of November 21, 2023. Interest charged on
borrowings under the credit line agreement is based on either the Term SOFR Reference Rate or other applicable market rates as
allowed under the terms of the agreement, plus applicable margins. Commitment fees under the agreements are not material.
Throughout fiscal years 2023 and 2022, the Company continued to have access to liquidity through the commercial paper market.
Short-term borrowings and the current portion of long-term debt amounted to approximately $ 3.5 billion and $ 12.8 billion at the
end of fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively. The current portion of the long term debt was $ 1.5 billion and $ 1.6 billion in 2023
and 2022, respectively, and the remainder is commercial paper and local borrowing by international subsidiaries.
The current debt balance as of December 31, 2023 includes $ 2.0 billion of commercial paper which has a weighted average
interest rate of 5.37 % and a weighted average maturity of approximately two months . The current debt balance as of January 1,
2023 includes $ 11.2 billion of commercial paper which has a weighted average interest rate of 4.23 % and a weighted average
maturity of approximately two months .
Aggregate maturities of long-term debt obligations commencing in 2024 are:
(Dollars in Millions)
2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 After 2028
$ 1,469 1,700 1,997 2,320 2,325 17,539
8. Income taxes
The provision for taxes on income consists of:
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022 2021
Currently payable:
U.S. taxes $ 2,705 2,274 1,338
International taxes 3,090 2,295 2,069
Total currently payable 5,795 4,569 3,407
Deferred:
U.S. taxes ( 3,440 ) ( 1,990 ) 565
International taxes ( 619 ) 410 ( 2,595 )
Total deferred ( 4,059 ) ( 1,580 ) ( 2,030 )
Provision for taxes on income $ 1,736 2,989 1,377
66A comparison of income tax expense at the U.S. statutory rate of 21 % in fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021, to the Company’s
effective tax rate is as follows:
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022 2021
U.S. $( 2,033 ) 4,606 4,275
International 17,095 14,753 14,903
Earnings before taxes on income: $ 15,062 19,359 19,178
Tax rates:
U.S. statutory rate 21.0 % 21.0 21.0
International operations (1) ( 8.1 ) ( 5.0 ) ( 19.1 )
U.S. Tax Settlements ( 3.0 ) — —
U.S. taxes on international income (2) ( 0.3 ) ( 1.1 ) 8.9
Tax benefits from loss on capital assets — — ( 1.6 )
Tax benefits on share-based compensation ( 0.8 ) ( 1.4 ) ( 1.2 )
All other 2.7 1.9 ( 0.8 )
Effective Rate 11.5 % 15.4 7.2
(1) International operations reflect the impacts of operations in jurisdictions with statutory tax rates different than the U.S., particularly Ireland,
Switzerland, Belgium and Puerto Rico, which is a favorable impact on the effective tax rate as compared with the U.S. statutory rate.
(2) Includes the impact of the GILTI tax, the Foreign-Derived Intangible Income deduction and other foreign income that is taxable under the U.S. tax
code. The 2023 and 2022 amount includes the impact of certain provisions of the 2017 TCJA that became effective in fiscal 2022. The 2023
amount includes the impact of certain foreign subsidiaries deferred tax remeasurements for legislative elections and the 2021 amounts include the
reorganization of international subsidiaries further described below.
The fiscal year 2023 effective tax rate decreased 3.9 % as compared to the fiscal year 2022 effective tax rate as the Company
recorded certain non-recurring favorable tax items in fiscal year 2023 when compared to the prior fiscal year.
In the fiscal fourth quarter of 2023, the Company settled the U.S. Internal Revenue Service audit for tax years 2013 through 2016
which resulted in a favorable impact to the rate of 3.0 %. This settlement was partially offset by the Company recording a $ 0.4
billion decrease in expected U.S. foreign tax credits , an unfavorable effective rate impact of 2.6 % , which has been reflected as
a current tax expense in U.S. taxes on international income on the Company’s effective tax rate reconciliation.
In the fiscal year 2023, the Company had certain non-recurring impacts as a result of legislative tax elections made in certain
international subsidiaries which resulted in a change in the Company’s tax basis in certain assets resulting in deferred tax
re-measurements. The net impact of these non-recurring items is a net benefit of 3.4 % to the Company’s annual effective tax rate,
comprised of the following items:
• approximately $ 0.3 billion of tax benefit on local deferred tax assets to record the remeasurement of the increased tax basis,
this benefit has been reflected as International operations on the Company’s effective tax rate reconciliation. This benefit was
offset by approximately $ 0.1 billion of U.S. deferred tax expense on the GILTI deferred tax liability resulting from the
remeasurement of these deferred tax assets. This has been reflected in the “U.S. tax on international income” on the
Company’s effective tax rate reconciliation.
• approximately $ 0.3 billion of U.S. deferred tax benefit on the GILTI deferred tax as a result of an international subsidiary
making an election to change the treatment of a local deferred tax asset to a refundable tax credit. This has been reflected in
the U.S. taxes on international income on the Company’s effective tax rate reconciliation.
The Company’s 2023 and 2022 tax rates benefited from certain provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 that became
effective in fiscal 2022. The Company also had lower income in higher tax jurisdictions vs. fiscal year 2022, primarily in the U.S.
where the Company recorded an approximately $ 7.0 billion charge related to talc matters in the United States at an effective tax
rate of 21.1 % (for further information see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).
The fiscal year 2022 effective tax rate increased 8.2 % as compared to the fiscal year 2021 effective tax rate as the Company
recorded certain non-recurring favorable tax items in fiscal year 2021 which resulted in an unfavorable impact to the Company’s
fiscal 2022 effective tax rate when compared to the prior fiscal year. These items are described below. The Company’s 2022 tax
rate also benefited from the impairment of bermekimab for AD IPR&D and changes in the fair value of securities in the Company’s
investment portfolio, both recorded at the U.S. statutory rate.
2023 Annual Report 67In the fiscal year 2021, the Company reorganized the ownership structure of certain wholly-owned international subsidiaries. As
part of this reorganization, the Company increased the tax basis of certain assets to fair value in accordance with applicable local
regulations. The net impact of this restructuring was approximately $ 0.6 billion net benefit or 3.2 % benefit to the Company’s
annual effective tax rate, comprised of the following items:
• approximately $ 2.3 billion of local deferred tax assets to record the remeasurement of the tax basis of these assets to fair
value, this benefit has been reflected as International operations on the Company’s effective tax rate reconciliation.
• approximately $ 1.7 billion of U.S. deferred tax expense relating to the GILTI deferred tax liability resulting from the
remeasurement of these deferred tax assets. This expense has been reflected as U.S. taxes on international income on the
Company’s effective tax rate reconciliation.
Also, in the fiscal fourth quarter of 2021, the Company recognized a loss on certain U.S. affiliates related to the previously
impaired book value of certain intangibles, which reduced the 2021 effective tax rate by approximately 1.6 % which is reflected as
a Tax benefits from loss on capital assets on the effective tax rate reconciliation. Additionally other fiscal 2021 impacts to the rate
were primarily driven by litigation and acquisition related items as follows:
• the Company accrued additional legal expenses, of approximately $ 1.6 billion for talc at an effective tax rate of 23.5 % and $
0.8 billion for Risperdal Gynecomastia settlements at an effective tax rate of 16.4 % (See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for more details).
• the Company recorded a partial IPR&D charge of $ 0.9 billion for the Ottava intangible asset (acquired with the Auris Health
acquisition in 2019) at an effective rate of 22.4 %.
Temporary differences and carryforwards at the end of fiscal years 2023 and 2022 were as follows:
2023 Deferred Tax 2022 Deferred Tax
(Dollars in Millions) Asset Liability Asset Liability
Employee related obligations $ 586 685
Stock based compensation 686 632
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment ( 902 ) ( 845 )
Goodwill and intangibles ( 1,252 ) ( 1,737 )
R&D capitalized for tax 3,595 2,611
Reserves & liabilities 3,816 2,733
Income reported for tax purposes (1) 359 2,026
Net realizable operating loss carryforwards (2) 996 1,319
Undistributed foreign earnings 1,801 ( 1,695 ) 1,517 ( 1,604 )
Global intangible low-taxed income ( 2,731 ) ( 3,628 )
Miscellaneous international 831 861 ( 66 )
Miscellaneous U.S. ( 4 ) 452
Total deferred income taxes $ 12,670 ( 6,584 ) 12,836 ( 7,880 )
(1) In fiscal 2023, the Company changed the presentation of income taxes accrued on intercompany profits on inventory still owned by the Company
as part of “Prepaid expenses and other” on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
(2) Net of valuation allowances of $ 1.1 billion and $ 0.8 billion in 2023 and 2022. The change in the valuation allowance from 2022 to 2023 was
driven by approximately $ 0.1 billion from acquisition related activity and the remainder was due to normal operations during the fiscal year.
The Company has wholly-owned international subsidiaries that have cumulative net losses. The Company believes that it is more
likely than not that these subsidiaries will generate future taxable income sufficient to utilize these deferred tax assets. However, in
certain jurisdictions, valuation allowances have been recorded against deferred tax assets for loss carryforwards that are not more
likely than not to be realized.
The following table summarizes the activity related to unrecognized tax benefits for continuing operations:
68(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022 2021
Beginning of year $ 3,716 3,210 3,260
Increases related to current year tax positions 239 523 242
Increases related to prior period tax positions 244 143 23
Decreases related to prior period tax positions ( 781 ) ( 148 ) ( 128 )
Settlements ( 880 ) ( 1 ) ( 187 )
Lapse of statute of limitations ( 53 ) ( 11 ) —
End of year $ 2,485 3,716 3,210
As of December 31, 2023 the Company had approximately $ 2.5 billion of unrecognized tax benefits. The Company conducts
business and files tax returns in numerous countries and currently has tax audits in progress with a number of tax authorities. With
respect to the United States the Internal Revenue Service has completed its audit for all tax years through 2016.
In other major jurisdictions where the Company conducts business, the years that remain open to tax audits go back to the year
2008. The Company believes it is possible that some tax audits may be completed over the next twelve months by taxing
authorities in some jurisdictions, including in the United States. However, the Company is not able to provide a reasonably reliable
estimate of the timing of any other future tax payments or change in uncertain tax positions, if any.
The Company classifies liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties as long-term liabilities. Interest
expense and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are classified as income tax expense. The Company recognized after
tax interest expense of $ 99 million, $ 136 million and $ 42 million in fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The total
amount of accrued interest was $ 264 million and $ 637 million in fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively .
9. Employee related obligations
At the end of fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, employee related obligations recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets were:
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022
Pension benefits $ 3,129 2,475
Postretirement benefits 1,963 1,728
Postemployment benefits 2,527 2,832
Deferred compensation 68 100
Total employee obligations 7,687 7,135
Less current benefits payable 538 593
Employee related obligations — non-current $ 7,149 6,542
Prepaid employee related obligations of $ 4,992 million and $ 4,581 million for 2023 and 2022, respectively, are included in Other
assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
2023 Annual Report 6910. Pensions and other benefit plans
The Company sponsors various retirement and pension plans, including defined benefit, defined contribution and termination
indemnity plans, which cover most employees worldwide. The Company also provides post-retirement benefits, primarily
healthcare, to all eligible U.S. retired employees and their dependents.
Many international employees are covered by government-sponsored programs and the cost to the Company is not significant.
In the U.S, non-union pension benefits for employees hired before January 1, 2015 are primarily based on the employee’s
compensation during the last five years before retirement and the number of years of service (the Final Average Pay formula).
U.S. pension benefits for employees hired after 2014, are calculated using a different formula based on employee compensation
over total years of service (the Retirement Value formula).
In January 2021, the Company announced that, effective on January 1, 2026, all eligible U.S. non-union employees, regardless of
hire date, will earn benefits under the Retirement Value formula. This amendment does not affect the benefits accrued under the
Final Average Pay formula for service before January 1, 2026.
International subsidiaries have plans under which funds are deposited with trustees, annuities are purchased under group
contracts, or reserves are provided.
The Company does not fund retiree healthcare benefits in advance and has the right to modify these plans in the future.
In 2023 and 2022 the Company used December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively, as the measurement date for all
U.S. and international retirement and other benefit plans.
Net periodic benefit costs for the Company’s defined benefit retirement plans and other benefit plans for 2023, 2022 and 2021
include the following components:
Retirement Plans Other Benefit Plans
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021
Service cost $ 893 1,319 1,412 264 320 309
Interest cost 1,437 908 768 214 104 80
Expected return on plan assets ( 2,716 ) ( 2,756 ) ( 2,644 ) ( 7 ) ( 8 ) ( 7 )
Amortization of prior service cost ( 184 ) ( 184 ) ( 181 ) ( 2 ) ( 5 ) ( 31 )
Recognized actuarial losses (gains) ( 199 ) 650 1,251 23 122 151
Curtailments and settlements 93 1 1 ( 5 ) — —
Net periodic benefit cost (credit) $( 676 ) ( 62 ) 607 487 533 502
The service cost component of net periodic benefit cost is presented in the same line items on the Consolidated Statement of
Earnings where other employee compensation costs are reported, including Cost of products sold, Research and development
expense, Selling, marketing and administrative expenses, and Net earnings from discontinued operations, net of taxes if related to
the separation of Kenvue. All other components of net periodic benefit cost are presented as part of Other (income) expense, net
on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, with the exception of certain amounts for curtailments and settlements, which are
reported in Net earnings from discontinued operations, net of taxes if related to the separation of Kenvue (as noted above).
Unrecognized gains and losses for the U.S. pension plans are amortized over the average remaining future service for each plan.
For plans with no active employees, they are amortized over the average life expectancy. The amortization of gains and losses for
the other U.S. benefit plans is determined by using a 10 % corridor of the greater of the market value of assets or the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation. Total unamortized gains and losses in excess of the corridor are amortized over the average
remaining future service.
Prior service costs/benefits for the U.S. pension plans are amortized over the average remaining future service of plan participants
at the time of the plan amendment. Prior service cost/benefit for the other U.S. benefit plans is amortized over the average
remaining service to full eligibility age of plan participants at the time of the plan amendment.
70The following table represents the weighted-average actuarial assumptions:
Retirement Plans Other Benefit Plans
Worldwide Benefit Plans 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021
Net Periodic Benefit Cost
Service cost discount rate 4.85 % 2.46 2.14 5.40 2.59 2.09
Interest cost discount rate 5.25 % 2.80 2.34 5.43 2.64 2.33
Rate of increase in compensation levels 3.71 % 4.02 4.01 4.22 4.21 4.25
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 7.21 % 7.25 7.71
Benefit Obligation
Discount rate 4.58 % 5.01 2.49 5.11 5.42 2.68
Rate of increase in compensation levels 3.69 % 4.00 4.01 4.22 4.21 4.21
The Company’s discount rates are determined by considering current yield curves representing high quality, long-term fixed income
instruments. The resulting discount rates are consistent with the duration of plan liabilities. The Company's methodology in
determining service and interest cost uses duration specific spot rates along that yield curve to the plans' liability cash flows.
The expected rates of return on plan asset assumptions represent the Company's assessment of long-term returns on diversified
investment portfolios globally. The assessment is determined using projections from external financial sources, long-term historical
averages, actual returns by asset class and the various asset class allocations by market.
The following table displays the assumed healthcare cost trend rates, for all individuals:
Healthcare Plans 2023 2022
Healthcare cost trend rate assumed for next year 13.90 % * 5.96 %
Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline (ultimate trend) 4.00 % 3.99 %
Year the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate 2048 2047
*excludes ongoing negotiations regarding healthcare cost with service providers
The following table sets forth information related to the benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets at fiscal year-end 2023
and 2022 for the Company’s defined benefit retirement plans and other post-retirement plans:
Retirement Plans Other Benefit Plans
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022 2023 2022
Change in Benefit Obligation
Projected benefit obligation — beginning of year $ 29,390 41,272 4,192 4,874
Service cost 893 1,319 264 320
Interest cost 1,437 908 214 104
Plan participant contributions 73 67 — —
Amendments ( 6 ) 7 — —
Actuarial (gains) losses (1) 2,068 ( 12,159 ) 469 ( 704 )
Divestitures & acquisitions (2) ( 352 ) — 1 —
Curtailments, settlements & restructuring ( 238 ) ( 7 ) ( 332 ) —
Benefits paid from plan (3) ( 2,122 ) ( 1,220 ) ( 702 ) ( 393 )
Effect of exchange rates 601 ( 797 ) 2 ( 9 )
Projected benefit obligation — end of year $ 31,744 29,390 4,108 4,192
2023 Annual Report 71Change in Plan Assets
Plan assets at fair value — beginning of year $ 31,496 41,909 78 102
Actual return (loss) on plan assets 3,951 ( 8,663 ) 16 ( 17 )
Company contributions 268 261 694 386
Plan participant contributions 73 67 — —
Settlements ( 176 ) ( 5 ) — —
Divestitures & acquisitions (2) ( 509 ) — — —
Benefits paid from plan assets (3) ( 2,122 ) ( 1,220 ) ( 702 ) ( 393 )
Effect of exchange rates 626 ( 853 ) — —
Plan assets at fair value — end of year $ 33,607 31,496 86 78
Funded status — end of year $ 1,863 2,106 ( 4,022 ) ( 4,114 )
Amounts Recognized in the Company’s Balance Sheet consist of
the following:
Non-current assets $ 4,992 4,581 — —
Current liabilities ( 119 ) ( 127 ) ( 416 ) ( 461 )
Non-current liabilities ( 3,010 ) ( 2,348 ) ( 3,606 ) ( 3,653 )
Total recognized in the consolidated balance sheet — end of year $ 1,863 2,106 ( 4,022 ) ( 4,114 )
Amounts Recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
consist of the following:
Net actuarial loss $ 4,962 3,948 354 239
Prior service cost (credit) ( 1,236 ) ( 1,417 ) ( 6 ) ( 7 )
Unrecognized net transition obligation — — —
Total before tax effects $ 3,726 2,531 348 232
Accumulated Benefit Obligations — end of year $ 30,139 27,797
(1) The actuarial (gains)/losses for retirement plans in 2023 and 2022 were primarily driven by changes in the discount rates.
(2) Primarily driven by the Kenvue separation.
(3) Includes approximately $ 800 million transferred to a group annuity contract issued by a third-party insurer for the U.S. Salaried Pension Plan.
Retirement Plans Other Benefit Plans
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022 2023 2022
Amounts Recognized in Net Periodic Benefit Cost and Other
Comprehensive Income
Net periodic benefit cost (credit) $( 676 ) ( 62 ) 487 533
Net actuarial (gain) loss 711 ( 793 ) 136 ( 751 )
Amortization of net actuarial loss 199 ( 655 ) ( 22 ) ( 121 )
Prior service cost (credit) ( 2 ) 7 — —
Amortization of prior service (cost) credit 185 183 2 5
Effect of exchange rates 103 ( 140 ) — ( 1 )
Total loss/(income) recognized in other comprehensive income, before tax $ 1,195 ( 1,398 ) 116 ( 868 )
Total recognized in net periodic benefit cost and other comprehensive income $ 519 ( 1,460 ) 603 ( 335 )
72The Company plans to continue to fund its U.S. Qualified Plans to comply with the Pension Protection Act of 2006. International
Plans are funded in accordance with local regulations. Additional discretionary contributions are made when deemed appropriate to
meet the long-term obligations of the plans. For certain plans, funding is not a common practice, as funding provides no economic
benefit. Consequently, the Company has several pension plans that are not funded.
In 2023, the Company contributed $ 135 million and $ 133 million to its U.S. and international pension plans, respectively.
The following table displays the funded status of the Company's U.S. Qualified & Non-Qualified pension plans and international
funded and unfunded pension plans at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively:
U.S. Plans International Plans
Qualified Plans Non-Qualified Plans Funded Plans Unfunded Plans
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022
Plan Assets $ 22,298 20,937 — — 11,309 10,559 — —
Projected Benefit Obligation 19,152 18,394 2,037 1,937 10,431 8,982 124 77
Accumulated Benefit Obligation 18,557 17,696 1,982 1,872 9,498 8,166 102 63
Over (Under) Funded Status
Projected Benefit Obligation $ 3,146 2,543 ( 2,037 ) ( 1,937 ) 878 1,577 ( 124 ) ( 77 )
Accumulated Benefit Obligation 3,741 3,241 ( 1,982 ) ( 1,872 ) 1,811 2,393 ( 102 ) ( 63 )
Plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets have an accumulated benefit obligation, projected benefit
obligation and plan assets of $ 5.8 billion, $ 6.1 billion and $ 3.1 billion, respectively, at the end of 2023, and $ 2.7 billion, $ 2.7
billion and $ 0.3 billion, respectively, at the end of 2022.
The following table displays the projected future benefit payments from the Company’s retirement and other benefit plans:
(Dollars in Millions) 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029-2033
Projected future benefit payments
Retirement plans $ 1,481 1,473 1,549 1,647 1,745 10,133
Other benefit plans $ 427 438 396 411 428 2,360
The following table displays the projected future minimum contributions to the unfunded retirement plans. These amounts do not
include any discretionary contributions that the Company may elect to make in the future.
(Dollars in Millions) 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029-2033
Projected future contributions $ 122 126 133 139 145 787
Each pension plan is overseen by a local committee or board that is responsible for the overall administration and investment of
the pension plans. In determining investment policies, strategies and goals, each committee or board considers factors including,
local pension rules and regulations; local tax regulations; availability of investment vehicles (separate accounts, commingled
accounts, insurance funds, etc.); funded status of the plans; ratio of actives to retirees; duration of liabilities; and other relevant
factors including: diversification, liquidity of local markets and liquidity of base currency. A majority of the Company’s pension funds
are open to new entrants and are expected to be on-going plans. Permitted investments are primarily liquid and/or listed, with little
reliance on illiquid and non-traditional investments such as hedge funds.
The Company’s retirement plan asset allocation at the end of 2023 and 2022 and target allocations for 2024 are as follows:
2023 Annual Report 73Percent of Target
Plan Assets Allocation
2023 2022 2024
Worldwide Retirement Plans
Equity securities 58 % 62 % 58 %
Debt securities 42 38 42
Total plan assets 100 % 100 % 100 %
Determination of fair value of plan assets
The Plan has an established and well-documented process for determining fair values. Fair value is based upon quoted market
prices, where available. If listed prices or quotes are not available, fair value is based upon models that primarily use, as inputs,
market-based or independently sourced market parameters, including yield curves, interest rates, volatilities, equity or debt prices,
foreign exchange rates and credit curves.
While the Plan believes its valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different
methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair
value at the reporting date.
Valuation hierarchy
The authoritative literature establishes a three-level hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used in measuring fair value. The levels within
the hierarchy are described in the table below with Level 1 having the highest priority and Level 3 having the lowest.
The Net Asset Value (NAV) is based on the value of the underlying assets owned by the fund, minus its liabilities, and then divided
by the number of shares outstanding.
A financial instrument’s categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the
fair value measurement.
Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for the investments measured at fair value.
• Short-term investment funds — Cash and quoted short-term instruments are valued at the closing price or the amount held on
deposit by the custodian bank. Other investments are through investment vehicles valued using the NAV provided by the
administrator of the fund. The NAV is a quoted price in a market that is not active and classified as Level 2.
• Government and agency securities — A limited number of these investments are valued at the closing price reported on the
major market on which the individual securities are traded. Where quoted prices are available in an active market, the
investments are classified within Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. If quoted market prices are not available for the specific
security, then fair values are estimated by using pricing models, quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics or
discounted cash flows. When quoted market prices for a security are not available in an active market, they are classified as
Level 2.
• Debt instruments — A limited number of these investments are valued at the closing price reported on the major market on
which the individual securities are traded. Where quoted prices are available in an active market, the investments are classified
as Level 1. If quoted market prices are not available for the specific security, then fair values are estimated by using pricing
models, quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows and are classified as Level 2. Level 3
debt instruments are priced based on unobservable inputs.
• Equity securities — Equity securities are valued at the closing price reported on the major market on which the individual
securities are traded. Substantially all equity securities are classified within Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy.
• Commingled funds — These investment vehicles are valued using the NAV provided by the fund administrator. Assets in the
Level 2 category have a quoted market price.
• Other assets — Other assets are represented primarily by limited partnerships. These investment vehicles are valued using
the NAV provided by the fund administrator. Other assets that are exchange listed and actively traded are classified as Level 1,
while inactively traded assets are classified as Level 2.
74The following table sets forth the Retirement Plans' investments measured at fair value as of December 31, 2023 and
December 31, 2022:
Quoted Prices Significant
in Active Other Significant Investments
Markets for Observable Unobservable Measured at Net
Identical Assets Inputs Inputs (1) Asset Value
(Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total Assets
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022
Short-term
investment funds
$ 12 26 829 13 — — — — 841 39
Government and
agency securities — — 5,985 5,863 — — — — 5,985 5,863
Debt instruments — — 3,899 3,681 — — — — 3,899 3,681
Equity securities 7,764 8,846 — 2 — — — — 7,764 8,848
Commingled funds — — 4,967 4,362 43 56 6,672 6,096 11,682 10,514
Other assets — — 49 33 92 12 3,295 2,506 3,436 2,551
Investments at
fair value
$ 7,776 8,872 15,729 13,954 135 68 9,967 8,602 33,607 31,496
(1) The activity for the Level 3 assets is not significant for all years presented.
The Company's Other Benefit Plans are unfunded except for U.S. commingled funds (Level 2) of $ 86 million and $ 78 million at
December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively.
The fair value of Johnson & Johnson Common Stock directly held in plan assets was $ 14 million ( 0.0 % of total plan assets) at
December 31, 2023 and $ 21 million ( 0.1 % of total plan assets) at December 31, 2022.
11. Savings plan
The Company has voluntary 401(k) savings plans designed to enhance the existing retirement programs covering eligible
employees. The Company matches a percentage of each employee’s contributions consistent with the provisions of the plan for
which the employee is eligible. Total Company matching contributions to the plans were $ 263 million, $ 257 million and $ 239
million in fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
2023 Annual Report 7512. Capital and treasury stock
Changes in treasury stock were:
Treasury Stock
(Amounts in Millions Except Treasury Stock Shares in Thousands) Shares Amount
Balance at January 3, 2021 487,331 $ 38,490
Employee compensation and stock option plans ( 17,399 ) ( 2,847 )
Repurchase of common stock 20,946 3,456
Balance at January 2, 2022 490,878 39,099
Employee compensation and stock option plans ( 20,007 ) ( 3,440 )
Repurchase of common stock 35,375 6,035
Balance at January 1, 2023 506,246 41,694
Employee compensation and stock option plans ( 15,521 ) ( 2,529 )
Repurchase of common stock 31,085 5,079
Kenvue share exchange (Note 21) 190,955 31,418
Balance at December 31, 2023 712,765 $ 75,662
Aggregate shares of common stock issued were approximately 3,119,843,000 shares at the end of fiscal years 2023, 2022 and
2021.
Cash dividends paid were $ 4.70 per share in fiscal year 2023, compared with dividends of $ 4.45 per share in fiscal year 2022,
and $ 4.19 per share in fiscal year 2021.
On January 2, 2024, the Board of Directors declared a regular cash dividend of $ 1.19 per share, payable on March 5, 2024 to
shareholders of record as of February 20, 2024.
On September 14, 2022, the Company announced that its Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program, authorizing
the Company to purchase up to $ 5.0 billion of the Company's shares of common stock. The repurchase program was completed
during the fiscal first quarter of 2023.
7613. Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
Components of other comprehensive income (loss) consist of the following:
Total
Gain/ Accumulated
Foreign Gain/ (Loss) On Other
Currency (Loss) On Employee Derivatives Comprehensive
(Dollars in Millions) Translation Securities Benefit Plans & Hedges Income (Loss)
January 3, 2021 $( 8,938 ) 1 ( 6,957 ) 652 ( 15,242 )
Net 2021 changes ( 1,079 ) ( 4 ) 4,255 ( 988 ) 2,184
January 2, 2022 ( 10,017 ) ( 3 ) ( 2,702 ) ( 336 ) ( 13,058 )
Net 2022 changes ( 1,796 ) ( 24 ) 1,805 106 91
January 1, 2023 ( 11,813 ) ( 27 ) ( 897 ) ( 230 ) ( 12,967 )
Net 2023 changes ( 3,221 ) 26 ( 1,399 ) ( 147 ) ( 4,741 )
Kenvue Separation/IPO 4,885 296* 5,181
December 31, 2023 $( 10,149 ) ( 1 ) ( 2,000 ) ( 377 ) ( 12,527 )
Amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income are presented net of the related tax impact. Foreign currency translation is
not adjusted for income taxes where it relates to permanent investments in international subsidiaries. For additional details on
comprehensive income see the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
Details on reclassifications out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income:
Gain/(Loss) On Securities - reclassifications released to Other (income) expense, net.
Employee Benefit Plans - reclassifications are included in net periodic benefit cost. See Note 10 for additional details.
Gain/(Loss) On Derivatives & Hedges - reclassifications to earnings are recorded in the same account as the hedged
transaction. See Note 6 for additional details.
* Includes impact of curtailments and settlements in connection with separation from Kenvue.
14. International currency translation
For translation of its subsidiaries operating in non-U.S. Dollar currencies, the Company has determined that the local currencies of
its international subsidiaries are the functional currencies except those in highly inflationary economies, which are defined as those
which have had compound cumulative rates of inflation of 100% or more during the past three years, or where a substantial
portion of its cash flows are not in the local currency. For the majority of the Company's subsidiaries the local currency is the
functional currency.
In consolidating international subsidiaries, balance sheet currency effects are recorded as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income. The other current and non-current assets line within the Statement of Cash flows includes the impact of
foreign currency translation. This equity account includes the results of translating certain balance sheet assets and liabilities at
current exchange rates and some accounts at historical rates, except for those located in highly inflationary economies (Argentina
and Venezuela). Beginning in the fiscal second quarter of 2022, the Company also accounted for operations in Turkey as highly
inflationary. The translation of balance sheet accounts for highly inflationary economies are reflected in the operating results.
A rollforward of the changes during fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021 for foreign currency translation adjustments is included in
Note 13.
Net currency transaction gains and losses included in Other (income) expense were losses of $ 366 million, $ 286 million and $
216 million in fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
2023 Annual Report 7715. Earnings per share
The following is a reconciliation of basic net earnings per share to diluted net earnings per share for the fiscal years ended
December 31, 2023, January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022:
(In Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 2023 2022 2021
Basic net earnings per share from continuing operations $ 5.26 6.23 6.76
Basic net earnings per share from discontinued operations 8.62 0.60 1.17
Total net earnings per share - basic 13.88 6.83 7.93
Average shares outstanding — basic 2,533.5 2,625.2 2,632.1
Potential shares exercisable under stock option plans 94.1 140.1 138.0
Less: shares repurchased under treasury stock method ( 67.2 ) ( 101.4 ) ( 96.1 )
Adjusted average shares outstanding — diluted 2,560.4 2,663.9 2,674.0
Diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations 5.20 6.14 6.66
Diluted net earnings per share from discontinuing operations 8.52 0.59 1.15
Total net earnings per share - diluted $ 13.72 6.73 7.81
The diluted net earnings per share calculation for fiscal year 2023 excluded 43 million shares related to stock options, as the
exercise price of these options was greater than the average market value of the Company's stock.
The diluted net earnings per share calculation for the fiscal years 2022 and 2021 included all shares related to stock options, as
the exercise price of these options was less than the average market value of the Company's stock.
16. Common stock, stock option plans and stock compensation agreements
At December 31, 2023, the Company had one stock-based compensation plan. The shares outstanding are for contracts under the
Company's 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the 2022 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan expired
on April 26, 2022. All awards (stock options, restricted shares units and performance share units) granted subsequent to that date
were under the 2022 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Under the 2022 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Company may issue up to 150
million shares of common stock, of which up to 110 million shares of common stock may be issued subject to stock options or
stock appreciation rights and up to 40 million shares of common stock may be issued subject to full value awards. Awards will
generally be counted on a 1-for-1 basis against the share reserve, provided that if more than 40 million full value awards are
granted, each full value award in excess of 40 million will be counted on a 5-for-1 basis against the share reserve. Shares
available for future grants under the 2022 Long-Term Incentive Plan were 130 million at the end of fiscal year 2023.
The compensation cost that has been charged against income for these plans was $ 1,087 million, $ 1,028 million and $ 1,038
million for fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The total income tax benefit recognized in the income statement for
share-based compensation costs was $ 221 million, $ 177 million and $ 199 million for fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021,
respectively. The Company also recognized additional income tax benefits of $ 126 million, $ 267 million and $ 213 million for
fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively, for which options were exercised or restricted shares were vested. The total
unrecognized compensation cost was $ 907 million, $ 866 million and $ 775 million for fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021,
respectively. The weighted average period for this cost to be recognized was 1.80 years, 1.80 years and 1.78 years for fiscal
years 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. Share-based compensation costs capitalized as part of inventory were insignificant in all
periods.
The Company settles employee benefit equity issuances with treasury shares. Treasury shares are replenished through market
purchases throughout the year for the number of shares used to settle employee benefit equity issuances.
78Stock options
Stock options expire 10 years from the date of grant and vest over service periods that range from 6 months to 4 years.
Options granted under the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan were granted at the average of the high and low prices of the
Company’s Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of grant. Options granted under the 2022 Long-Term
incentive Plan were granted at the closing price of the Company’s Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of
gran t.
The fair value of each option award was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option valuation model that uses
the assumptions noted in the following table. For 2023, 2022, and 2021 grants, expected volatility represents a blended rate of
10-year weekly historical overall volatility rate, and a 5-week average implied volatility rate based on at-the-money traded
Johnson & Johnson options with a life of 2 years. For all grants, historical data is used to determine the expected life of the option.
The risk-free rate was based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
The average fair value of options granted was $ 27.85 , $ 23.23 and $ 20.86 , in fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
The fair value was estimated based on the weighted average assumptions of:
2023 2022 2021
Risk-free rate 3.74 % 1.98 % 0.83 %
Expected volatility 17.69 % 18.00 % 18.59 %
Expected life (in years) 7.0 7.0 7.0
Expected dividend yield 2.90 % 2.70 % 2.50 %
A summary of option activity under the Plan as of December 31, 2023, is presented below:
Aggregate
Weighted Intrinsic
Outstanding Average Exercise Value
(Shares in Thousands) Shares Price (Dollars in Millions)
Shares at January 1, 2023 118,672 $ 134.95 $ 4,949
Options granted 16,320 162.75
Options exercised ( 12,386 ) 109.48
Options canceled/forfeited* ( 10,368 ) 155.62
Shares at December 31, 2023 112,238 $ 139.88 $ 2,239
The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $ 729 million, $ 1,228 million and $ 919 million in fiscal years 2023, 2022 and
2021, respectively.
*includes 7,689 shares of options cancelled as a result of the conversion of Johnson & Johnson stock options held by Kenvue employees into Kenvue
stock options
2023 Annual Report 79The following table summarizes stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2023:
(Shares in Thousands) Outstanding Exercisable
Weighted Weighted
Average Average
Exercise Price Range Options Average Life (1) Exercise Price Options Exercise Price
$ 90.44 - $ 101.87 20,774 1.4 $ 99.21 20,774 $ 99.21
$ 115.67 - $ 129.51 19,368 3.6 122.49 19,368 122.49
$ 131.94 - $ 151.41 27,391 5.6 142.84 26,676 142.61
$ 162.70 - $ 162.75 13,928 9.1 162.75 6 162.75
$ 164.62 - $ 165.89 30,777 7.6 165.29 174 165.12
112,238 5.5 $ 139.88 66,998 $ 123.39
(1) Average contractual life remaining in years.
Stock options outstanding at January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022 were 118,672 and an average life of 5.8 years and 117,361 and
an average life of 5.8 years, respectively. Stock options exercisable at January 1, 2023 and January 2, 2022 were 63,661 at an
average price of $ 113.06 and 62,742 at an average price of $ 104.42 , respectively.
Restricted share units and performance share units
The Company grants restricted share units which vest over service periods that range from 6 months to 3 years. The Company
also grants performance share units, which are paid in shares of Johnson & Johnson Common Stock after the end of a three- year
performance period. Performance shares were granted with two equally-weighted goals that directly align with or help drive
long-term total shareholder return: adjusted operational earnings per share and relative total shareholder return. The number of
shares actually earned at the end of the three-year period will vary, based only on actual performance, from 0 % to 200 % of the
target number of performance share units granted.
A summary of the restricted share units and performance share units activity under the Plans as of December 31, 2023 is
presented below:
Outstanding Outstanding
(Shares in Thousands) Restricted Share Units Performance Share Units
Shares at January 1, 2023 13,616 2,357
Granted 5,910 828
Issued ( 4,329 ) ( 785 )
Canceled/forfeited/adjusted* ( 2,259 ) ( 363 )
Shares at December 31, 2023 12,938 2,037
*includes 1,421 shares of restricted share units and 264 shares of performance share units cancelled as a result of the conversion of Johnson &
Johnson restricted share units and performance share units held by Kenvue employees into Kenvue restricted share units
The average fair value of the restricted share units granted was $ 152.63 , $ 153.67 and $ 152.62 in fiscal years 2023, 2022 and
2021, respectively, using the fair market value at the date of grant. The fair value of restricted share units was discounted for
dividends, which are not paid on the restricted share units during the vesting period. The fair value of restricted share units issued
was $ 605 million, $ 591 million and $ 611 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
The weighted average fair value of the performance share units granted was $ 145.17 , $ 170.46 and $ 179.35 in fiscal years
2023, 2022 and 2021, calculated using the weighted average fair market value for each of the component goals at the date
of grant.
The fair values for the earnings per share goals of each performance share unit were estimated on the date of grant using the fair
market value of the shares at the time of the award discounted for dividends, which are not paid on the performance share units
during the vesting period. The fair value for the relative total shareholder return goal of each performance share unit was estimated
on the date of grant using the Monte Carlo valuation model. The fair value of performance share units issued was $ 140 million, $
94 million and $ 83 million in fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.8017. Segments of business and geographic areas
Following the separation of the Consumer Health business in the fiscal third quarter of 2023, the Company is now organized into
two business segments: Innovative Medicine (formerly referred to as Pharmaceutical) and MedTech. The segment results have
been recast for all periods to reflect the continuing operations of the Company.
Sales to Customers % Change
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022 2021 ’23 vs. ’22 ’22 vs. ’21
INNOVATIVE MEDICINE (1)
Immunology
U.S. $ 11,539 11,036 10,843 4.6 % 1.8
International 6,513 5,899 5,907 10.4 ( 0.1 )
Worldwide 18,052 16,935 16,750 6.6 1.1
REMICADE
U.S. 1,143 1,417 2,019 ( 19.3 ) ( 29.8 )
U.S. Exports 147 204 236 ( 28.0 ) ( 13.6 )
International 549 722 935 ( 23.9 ) ( 22.8 )
Worldwide 1,839 2,343 3,190 ( 21.5 ) ( 26.6 )
SIMPONI / SIMPONI ARIA
U.S. 1,124 1,166 1,127 ( 3.6 ) 3.5
International 1,073 1,017 1,148 5.4 ( 11.4 )
Worldwide 2,197 2,184 2,276 0.6 ( 4.0 )
STELARA
U.S. 6,966 6,388 5,938 9.0 7.6
International 3,892 3,335 3,196 16.7 4.4
Worldwide 10,858 9,723 9,134 11.7 6.5
TREMFYA
U.S. 2,147 1,844 1,503 16.5 22.7
International 999 824 624 21.2 32.0
Worldwide 3,147 2,668 2,127 17.9 25.4
OTHER IMMUNOLOGY
U.S. 11 17 21 ( 33.8 ) ( 18.4 )
International 0 0 3 — *
Worldwide 11 17 24 ( 33.8 ) ( 28.2 )
Infectious Diseases
U.S. 1,500 1,680 2,249 ( 10.7 ) ( 25.3 )
International 2,918 3,769 3,576 ( 22.6 ) 5.4
Worldwide 4,418 5,449 5,825 ( 18.9 ) ( 6.5 )
COVID-19 VACCINE
U.S. 0 120 634 * ( 81.1 )
International 1,117 2,059 1,751 ( 45.8 ) 17.6
Worldwide 1,117 2,179 2,385 ( 48.8 ) ( 8.6 )
2023 Annual Report 81Sales to Customers % Change
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022 2021 ’23 vs. ’22 ’22 vs. ’21
EDURANT / rilpivirine
U.S. 35 36 41 ( 3.7 ) ( 10.8 )
International 1,115 972 953 14.8 2.0
Worldwide 1,150 1,008 994 14.1 1.5
PREZISTA / PREZCOBIX / REZOLSTA /
SYMTUZA
U.S. 1,446 1,494 1,508 ( 3.2 ) ( 1.0 )
International 408 449 575 ( 9.2 ) ( 21.9 )
Worldwide 1,854 1,943 2,083 ( 4.6 ) ( 6.7 )
OTHER INFECTIOUS DISEASES
U.S. 19 30 66 ( 34.5 ) ( 55.5 )
International 278 289 297 ( 3.8 ) ( 2.6 )
Worldwide 297 318 363 ( 6.7 ) ( 12.3 )
Neuroscience
U.S. 4,065 3,570 3,347 13.9 6.7
International 3,076 3,323 3,641 ( 7.5 ) ( 8.7 )
Worldwide 7,140 6,893 6,988 3.6 ( 1.4 )
CONCERTA / methylphenidate
U.S. 230 151 172 52.5 ( 12.5 )
International 554 493 495 12.2 ( 0.4 )
Worldwide 783 644 667 21.6 ( 3.5 )
INVEGA SUSTENNA / XEPLION /
INVEGA TRINZA / TREVICTA
U.S. 2,897 2,714 2,550 6.7 6.5
International 1,218 1,426 1,472 ( 14.6 ) ( 3.1 )
Worldwide 4,115 4,140 4,022 ( 0.6 ) 3.0
SPRAVATO
U.S. 589 328 198 79.7 65.7
International 100 46 26 * 76.9
Worldwide 689 374 224 84.1 67.0
OTHER NEUROSCIENCE (2)
U.S. 349 376 427 ( 7.3 ) ( 11.9 )
International 1,204 1,358 1,647 ( 11.3 ) ( 17.5 )
Worldwide 1,553 1,734 2,074 ( 10.4 ) ( 16.4 )
Oncology
U.S. 8,462 6,930 5,958 22.1 16.3
International 9,199 9,052 8,590 1.6 5.4
Worldwide 17,661 15,983 14,548 10.5 9.9
82Sales to Customers % Change
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022 2021 ’23 vs. ’22 ’22 vs. ’21
CARVYKTI
U.S. 469 133 — * *
International 30 — — * *
Worldwide 500 133 — * *
DARZALEX
U.S. 5,277 4,210 3,169 25.4 32.8
International 4,467 3,767 2,854 18.6 32.0
Worldwide 9,744 7,977 6,023 22.2 32.4
ERLEADA
U.S. 1,065 968 813 10.0 19.2
International 1,322 913 478 44.8 *
Worldwide 2,387 1,881 1,291 26.9 45.7
IMBRUVICA
U.S. 1,051 1,390 1,747 ( 24.4 ) ( 20.4 )
International 2,214 2,394 2,622 ( 7.5 ) ( 8.7 )
Worldwide 3,264 3,784 4,369 ( 13.7 ) ( 13.4 )
ZYTIGA /abiraterone acetate
U.S. 50 74 119 ( 32.1 ) ( 37.8 )
International 837 1,696 2,178 ( 50.7 ) ( 22.1 )
Worldwide 887 1,770 2,297 ( 49.9 ) ( 22.9 )
OTHER ONCOLOGY
U.S. 549 156 110 * 41.8
International 330 283 458 16.9 ( 38.2 )
Worldwide 879 438 568 * ( 22.9 )
Pulmonary Hypertension
U.S. 2,697 2,346 2,365 15.0 ( 0.8 )
International 1,117 1,071 1,085 4.3 ( 1.3 )
Worldwide 3,815 3,417 3,450 11.6 ( 1.0 )
OPSUMIT
U.S. 1,292 1,132 1,147 14.1 ( 1.3 )
International 681 651 672 4.6 ( 3.2 )
Worldwide 1,973 1,783 1,819 10.6 ( 2.0 )
UPTRAVI
U.S. 1,326 1,104 1,056 20.1 4.5
International 255 218 181 17.3 20.4
Worldwide 1,582 1,322 1,237 19.7 6.9
OTHER PULMONARY HYPERTENSION
U.S. 79 110 163 ( 28.6 ) ( 32.3 )
International 182 202 232 ( 10.3 ) ( 12.8 )
Worldwide 260 313 395 ( 16.7 ) ( 20.8 )
2023 Annual Report 83Sales to Customers % Change
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022 2021 ’23 vs. ’22 ’22 vs. ’21
Cardiovascular / Metabolism / Other
U.S. 2,906 3,042 3,192 ( 4.5 ) ( 4.7 )
International 765 845 927 ( 9.4 ) ( 8.9 )
Worldwide 3,671 3,887 4,119 ( 5.5 ) ( 5.6 )
XARELTO
U.S. 2,365 2,473 2,438 ( 4.4 ) 1.4
International — — — — —
Worldwide 2,365 2,473 2,438 ( 4.4 ) 1.4
OTHER (3)
U.S. 541 569 754 ( 5.0 ) ( 24.5 )
International 765 845 927 ( 9.4 ) ( 8.8 )
Worldwide 1,306 1,414 1,682 ( 7.6 ) ( 15.9 )
TOTAL INNOVATIVE MEDICINE
U.S. 31,169 28,604 27,954 9.0 2.3
International 23,590 23,959 23,726 ( 1.5 ) 1.0
Worldwide 54,759 52,563 51,680 4.2 1.7
MEDTECH
Interventional Solutions
U.S. 3,633 2,169 1,836 67.5 18.2
International 2,717 2,131 2,135 27.5 ( 0.2 )
Worldwide 6,350 4,300 3,971 47.7 8.3
ELECTROPHYSIOLOGY
U.S. 2,458 2,036 1,730 20.7 17.7
International 2,230 1,901 1,893 17.3 0.4
Worldwide 4,688 3,937 3,623 19.1 8.7
ABIOMED (4)
U.S. 1,066 31 — * *
International 240 — — * *
Worldwide 1,306 31 — * *
OTHER INTERVENTIONAL SOLUTIONS
U.S. 109 102 106 6.7 ( 3.8 )
International 247 230 242 7.3 ( 5.0 )
Worldwide 356 332 348 7.1 ( 4.6 )
Orthopaedics
U.S. 5,525 5,321 5,126 3.8 3.8
International 3,417 3,267 3,462 4.6 ( 5.6 )
Worldwide 8,942 8,587 8,588 4.1 0.0
HIPS
U.S. 996 943 878 5.6 7.3
International 564 571 602 ( 1.2 ) ( 5.1 )
Worldwide 1,560 1,514 1,480 3.0 2.3
84Sales to Customers % Change
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022 2021 ’23 vs. ’22 ’22 vs. ’21
KNEES
U.S. 896 851 787 5.3 8.2
International 559 508 538 10.2 ( 5.7 )
Worldwide 1,456 1,359 1,325 7.1 2.6
TRAUMA
U.S. 1,949 1,882 1,819 3.6 3.5
International 1,030 989 1,066 4.1 ( 7.2 )
Worldwide 2,979 2,871 2,885 3.8 ( 0.5 )
SPINE, SPORTS & OTHER
U.S. 1,684 1,645 1,642 2.4 0.2
International 1,263 1,198 1,256 5.4 ( 4.6 )
Worldwide 2,947 2,843 2,898 3.7 ( 1.9 )
Surgery
U.S. 4,031 3,897 3,867 3.4 0.8
International 6,006 5,793 5,945 3.7 ( 2.6 )
Worldwide 10,037 9,690 9,812 3.6 ( 1.2 )
ADVANCED
U.S. 1,833 1,784 1,761 2.8 1.3
International 2,837 2,785 2,861 1.9 ( 2.6 )
Worldwide 4,671 4,569 4,622 2.2 ( 1.1 )
GENERAL
U.S. 2,198 2,113 2,105 4.0 0.4
International 3,168 3,008 3,085 5.3 ( 2.5 )
Worldwide 5,366 5,121 5,190 4.8 ( 1.3 )
Vision
U.S. 2,086 1,990 1,857 4.8 7.2
International 2,986 2,859 2,831 4.5 1.0
Worldwide 5,072 4,849 4,688 4.6 3.4
CONTACT LENSES / OTHER
U.S. 1,626 1,522 1,398 6.8 8.9
International 2,076 2,022 2,043 2.7 ( 1.0 )
Worldwide 3,702 3,543 3,440 4.5 3.0
SURGICAL
U.S. 460 468 459 ( 1.8 ) 2.0
International 910 837 788 8.6 6.2
Worldwide 1,370 1,306 1,248 4.9 4.6
TOTAL MEDTECH
U.S. 15,275 13,377 12,686 14.2 5.4
International 15,125 14,050 14,374 7.7 ( 2.3 )
Worldwide 30,400 27,427 27,060 10.8 1.4
2023 Annual Report 85Sales to Customers % Change
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022 2021 ’23 vs. ’22 ’22 vs. ’21
WORLDWIDE
U.S. 46,444 41,981 40,640 10.6 3.3
International 38,715 38,009 38,100 1.9 ( 0.2 )
Worldwide $ 85,159 79,990 78,740 6.5 % 1.6
*Percentage greater than 100% or not meaningful
(1) Previously referred to as Pharmaceutical
(2) Inclusive of RISPERDAL CONSTA which was previously disclosed separately
(3) Inclusive of INVOKANA which was previously disclosed separately
(4) Acquired on December 22, 2022
Income Before Tax Identifiable Assets
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 (3) 2022 (4) 2021 (5) 2023 2022
Innovative Medicine $ 18,246 15,647 17,750 $ 58,324 58,436
MedTech 4,669 4,447 4,208 74,710 70,956
Total 22,915 20,094 21,958 133,034 129,392
Less: Expense not allocated to segments (1) 7,853 735 2,780
Discontinued operations — 27,237
General corporate (2) 34,524 30,749
Worldwide total $ 15,062 19,359 19,178 $ 167,558 187,378
Additions to Property, Depreciation and
Plant & Equipment Amortization
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021
Innovative Medicine $ 1,653 1,374 1,198 $ 3,847 3,687 4,029
MedTech 2,372 2,120 1,933 2,943 2,302 2,286
Segments total 4,025 3,494 3,131 6,790 5,989 6,315
Discontinued operations 162 303 314 383 641 739
General corporate 356 212 207 313 340 336
Worldwide total $ 4,543 4,009 3,652 $ 7,486 6,970 7,390
Sales to Customers Long-Lived Assets (6)
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022
United States $ 46,444 41,981 40,640 $ 54,832 58,750
Europe 20,410 20,664 20,595 31,616 29,878
Western Hemisphere excluding U.S. 4,549 4,108 3,927 1,491 1,289
Asia-Pacific, Africa 13,756 13,237 13,578 1,500 1,520
Segments total 85,159 79,990 78,740 89,439 91,437
Discontinued operations — 27,237
General corporate 1,192 1,081
Other non long-lived assets 76,927 67,623
Worldwide total $ 85,159 79,990 78,740 $ 167,558 187,37886See Note 1 for a description of the segments in which the Company operates.
Export sales are not significant. In fiscal year 2023, the Company utilized three wholesalers distributing products for both segments
that represented approximately 18.2 %, 15.1 % and 14.2 % of the total consolidated revenues. In fiscal year 2022, the Company
had three wholesalers distributing products for both segments that represented approximately 18.9 %, 15.0 % and 13.8 % of the
total consolidated revenues. In fiscal year 2021, the Company had three wholesalers distributing products for all three segments
that represented approximately 16.6 %, 12.6 %, and 12.6 % of the total consolidated revenues.
(1) Amounts not allocated to segments include interest (income)/expense and general corporate (income)/expense. Fiscal 2023 includes an
approximately $ 7 billion charge related to talc matters (See Note 19, Legal proceedings, for additional details) and $ 0.4 billion related to the
unfavorable change in the fair value of the retained stake in Kenvue.
(2) General corporate includes cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities.
(3) Innovative Medicine includes:
• One-time COVID-19 Vaccine manufacturing exit related costs of $ 0.7 billion
• A restructuring related charge of $ 0.5 billion
• Unfavorable changes in the fair value of securities of $ 0.4 billion
• Favorable litigation related items of $ 0.1 billion
• Loss on divestiture $ 0.2 billion.
• An intangible asset impairment charge of approximately $ 0.2 billion related to market dynamics associated with a non-strategic asset (M710)
acquired as part of the acquisition of Momenta Pharmaceuticals in 2020.
MedTech includes:
• Acquired in process research and development asset of $ 0.4 billion related to the Laminar acquisition in 2023
• A restructuring related charge of $ 0.3 billion
• Acquisition and integration related costs of $ 0.2 billion primarily related to the acquisition of Abiomed
• A Medical Device Regulation charge of $ 0.3 billion
• Income from litigation settlements of $ 0.1 billion
(4) Innovative Medicine includes:
• One-time COVID-19 Vaccine manufacturing exit related costs of $ 1.5 billion
• An intangible asset impairment charge of approximately $ 0.8 billion related to an in-process research and development asset, bermekimab
(JnJ-77474462), an investigational drug for the treatment of Atopic Dermatitis (AD) and Hidradenitis Suppurativa (HS) acquired with the
acquisition of XBiotech, Inc. in the fiscal year 2020. Additional information regarding efficacy of the AD and HS indications became available
which led the Company to the decision to terminate the development of bermekimab for AD and HS
• Litigation expense of $ 0.1 billion
• Unfavorable changes in the fair value of securities of $ 0.7 billion
• A restructuring related charge of $ 0.1 billion
MedTech includes:
• Litigation expense of $ 0.6 billion primarily for pelvic mesh related costs
• A restructuring related charge of $ 0.3 billion
• Acquisition and integration related costs of $ 0.3 billion primarily related to the acquisition of Abiomed
• A Medical Device Regulation charge of $ 0.3 billion
(5) Innovative Medicine includes:
• Litigation expense of $ 0.6 billion, primarily related to Risperdal Gynecomastia
• Divestiture gains of $ 0.6 billion
• Gains of $ 0.5 billion related to the change in the fair value of securities
• A restructuring related charge of $ 0.1 billion
MedTech includes:
• An in-process research and development expense of $ 0.9 billion related to Ottava
• A restructuring related charge of $ 0.3 billion
• A Medical Device Regulation charge of $ 0.2 billion2023 Annual Report 87• Litigation expense of $ 0.1 billion
(6) Long-lived assets include property, plant and equipment, net for fiscal years 2023, and 2022 of $ 19,898 and $ 17,982 , respectively, and intangible
assets and goodwill, net for fiscal years 2023 and 2022 of $ 70,733 and $ 74,536 , respectively.
18. Acquisitions and divestitures
In the fiscal first quarter of 2024, the Company announced it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Ambrx Biopharma,
Inc., or Ambrx (Nasdaq: AMAM), a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company with a proprietary synthetic biology technology
platform to design and develop next-generation antibody drug conjugates (ADCs), in an all-cash merger transaction for a total
equity value of approximately $ 2.0 billion, or $ 1.9 billion net of estimated cash acquired. The Company will acquire all of the
outstanding shares of Ambrx’s common stock for $ 28.00 per share through a merger of Ambrx with a subsidiary of the Company.
The closing of the transaction is expected to occur in the first half of 2024, subject to receipt of Ambrx shareholder approval, as
well as clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act and other customary closing conditions. The Company
expects that the transaction will be accounted for as a business combination and the results of operations will be included in the
Innovative Medicine segment as of the acquisition date.
During the fiscal year 2023, the Company did not make any acquisitions that qualified as a business combination.
During the fiscal year 2023, there were asset acquisitions of in-process research and development of approximately $ 0.5 billion in
cash, primarily consisting of the acquisition of Laminar Inc. for $ 0.4 billion which was closed on November 30, 2023. Laminar Inc.
is a privately-held medical device company focused on eliminating the left atrial appendage (LAA) in patients with non-valvular
atrial fibrillation (AFib).
During the fiscal year 2022, certain businesses were acquired for $ 17.7 billion in cash and $ 1.1 billion of liabilities assumed.
These acquisitions were accounted for using the acquisition method and, accordingly, results of operations have been included in
the financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition.
The excess of purchase price over the estimated fair value of tangible assets acquired amounted to $ 17.3 billion and has been
assigned to identifiable intangible assets, with any residual recorded to goodwill.
The fiscal year 2022 acquisitions primarily included Abiomed, Inc. (Abiomed). The remaining acquisitions were not material.
On December 22, 2022, the Company completed the acquisition of Abiomed, a leading, first-to-market provider of cardiovascular
medical technology with a first-in-kind portfolio for the treatment of coronary artery disease and heart failure which also has an
extensive innovation pipeline of life-saving technologies. The transaction broadens the Company’s position as a growing
cardiovascular innovator, advancing the standard of care in heart failure and recovery, one of healthcare’s largest areas of unmet
need. The transaction was accounted for as a business combination and the results of operations were included in the MedTech
segment as of the date of the acquisition. The acquisition was completed through a tender offer for all outstanding shares. The
consideration paid in the acquisition consisted of an upfront payment of $ 380.00 per share in cash, amounting to $ 17.1 billion,
net of cash acquired, as well as a non-tradeable contingent value right (“CVR”) entitling the holder to receive up to $ 35.00 per
share in cash (which with respect to the CVRs total approximately $ 1.6 billion in the aggregate) if certain commercial and clinical
milestones are achieved. The corresponding enterprise value (without taking into account the CVRs) of approximately $ 16.5
billion includes cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities acquired.
The milestones of the CVR consist of:
a. $ 17.50 per share, payable if net sales for Abiomed products exceeds $ 3.7 billion during Johnson & Johnson’s fiscal second
quarter of 2027 through fiscal first quarter of 2028, or if this threshold is not met during this period and is subsequently met
during any rolling four quarter period up to the end of Johnson & Johnson’s fiscal first quarter of 2029, $ 8.75 per share;
b. $ 7.50 per share payable upon FDA premarket application approval of the use of Impella® products in ST-elevated myocardial
infarction (STEMI) patients without cardiogenic shock by January 1, 2028; and
c. $ 10.00 per share payable upon the first publication of a Class I recommendation for the use of Impella® products in high risk
PCI or STEMI with or without cardiogenic shock within four years from their respective clinical endpoint publication dates, but in
all cases no later than December 31, 2029.
During the fiscal fourth quarter of 2023, the Company finalized the purchase price allocation. In the fiscal 2023, there were
purchase price allocation adjustments netting to approximately $ 0.2 billion with an offsetting increase to goodwill. The fair value
of the acquisition was allocated to assets acquired of $ 20.1 billion (net of $ 0.3 billion cash acquired), primarily to goodwill for $
1818.1 billion, amortizable intangible assets for $ 6.6 billion, IPR&D for $ 1.1 billion, marketable securities of $ 0.6 billion andliabilities assumed of $ 3.0 billion, which includes the fair value of the contingent consideration mentioned above for $ 0.7 billion
and deferred taxes of $ 2.0 billion. The goodwill is primarily attributable to the commercial acceleration and expansion of the
portfolio and is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. The contingent consideration was recorded in Other Liabilities and
adjusted to fair value through the fiscal year end 2023 on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The amortizable intangible assets were primarily comprised of already in-market products of the Impella® platform with an average
weighted life of 14 years. The IPR&D assets were valued for technology programs for unapproved products. The value of the
IPR&D was calculated using probability-adjusted cash flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. The
probability of success factor ranged from 52 % to 70 %. The discount rate applied was 9.5 %.
In 2023, the Company recorded acquisition related costs before tax of approximately $ 0.2 billion, which was primarily recorded in
Other (income)/expense. In 2022, the Company recorded acquisition related costs before tax of approximately $ 0.3 billion, which
was recorded in Other (income)/expense.
During fiscal year 2021, the Company did not make any material acquisitions that qualified as a business combination.
In accordance with U.S. GAAP standards related to business combinations, and goodwill and other intangible assets, supplemental
pro forma information for fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021 is not provided, as the impact of the aforementioned acquisitions did
not have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations.
Divestitures
During the fiscal year 2023, the Company executed divestitures resulting in approximately $ 0.2 billion in proceeds resulting in
gains or losses that were not material. At fiscal year end 2023, the Company held assets, primarily intangibles, on its Consolidated
Balance Sheet that it expects to divest of approximately $ 0.3 billion primarily related to Acclarent and Ponvory.
During fiscal year 2022, the Company did not make any material divestitures.
During fiscal year 2021, in separate transactions, the Company divested two brands outside the U.S. within the Innovative
Medicine segment. The Company recognized a pre-tax gain recorded in Other (income) expense, net, of approximately $ 0.6
billion.
19. Legal proceedings
Johnson & Johnson and certain of its subsidiaries are involved in various lawsuits and claims regarding product liability; intellectual
property; commercial; indemnification and other matters; governmental investigations; and other legal proceedings that arise from
time to time in the ordinary course of their business.
The Company records accruals for loss contingencies associated with these legal matters when it is probable that a liability
will be incurred, and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. As of December 31, 2023, the Company has determined
that the liabilities associated with certain litigation matters are probable and can be reasonably estimated. The Company has
accrued for these matters and will continue to monitor each related legal issue and adjust accruals as might be warranted based
on new information and further developments in accordance with ASC 450-20-25, Contingencies. For these and other litigation and
regulatory matters discussed below for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible, the Company is unable to estimate the
possible loss or range of loss beyond the amounts accrued. Amounts accrued for legal contingencies often result from a complex
series of judgments about future events and uncertainties that rely heavily on estimates and assumptions including timing of
related payments. The ability to make such estimates and judgments can be affected by various factors including, among other
things, whether damages sought in the proceedings are unsubstantiated or indeterminate; scientific and legal discovery has not
commenced or is not complete; proceedings are in early stages; matters present legal uncertainties; there are significant facts in
dispute; procedural or jurisdictional issues; the uncertainty and unpredictability of the number of potential claims; ability to achieve
comprehensive multi-party settlements; complexity of related cross-claims and counterclaims; and/or there are numerous parties
involved. To the extent adverse awards, judgments or verdicts have been rendered against the Company, the Company does not
record an accrual until a loss is determined to be probable and can be reasonably estimated.
In the Company’s opinion, based on its examination of these matters, its experience to date and discussions with counsel, the
ultimate outcome of legal proceedings, net of liabilities accrued in the Company’s balance sheet, is not expected to have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. However, the resolution of, or increase in accruals for, one or more of
these matters in any reporting period may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and cash flows
for that period.
2023 Annual Report 89Matters concerning talc
A significant number of personal injury claims alleging that talc causes cancer have been asserted against Johnson & Johnson
Consumer Inc., its successor LTL Management LLC (now known as LLT Management LLC) and the Company arising out of the
use of body powders containing talc, primarily JOHNSON’S Baby Powder.
In talc cases that previously have gone to trial, the Company has obtained a number of defense verdicts, but there also have been
verdicts against the Company, many of which have been reversed on appeal. In June 2020, the Missouri Court of Appeals
reversed in part and affirmed in part a July 2018 verdict of $ 4.7 billion in Ingham v. Johnson & Johnson, et al., No. ED 207476
(Mo. App.), reducing the overall award to $ 2.1 billion. An application for transfer of the case to the Missouri Supreme Court was
subsequently denied and in June 2021, a petition for certiorari, seeking a review of the Ingham decision by the United States
Supreme Court, was denied. In June 2021, the Company paid the award, which, including interest, totaled approximately $ 2.5
billion. The facts and circumstances, including the terms of the award, were unique to the Ingham decision and not representative
of other claims brought against the Company. The Company continues to believe that it has strong legal grounds to contest the
other talc verdicts that it has appealed. Notwithstanding the Company’s confidence in the safety of its talc products, in certain
circumstances the Company has settled cases.
In October 2021, Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc. (Old JJCI) implemented a corporate restructuring (the 2021 Corporate
Restructuring). As a result of that restructuring, Old JJCI ceased to exist and three new entities were created: (a) LTL Management
LLC, a North Carolina limited liability company (LTL or Debtor); (b) Royalty A&M LLC, a North Carolina limited liability company
and a direct subsidiary of LTL (RAM); and (c) the Debtor’s direct parent, Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc., a New Jersey
company (New JJCI). The Debtor received certain of Old JJCI’s assets and became solely responsible for the talc-related liabilities
of Old JJCI, including all liabilities related in any way to injury or damage, or alleged injury or damage, sustained or incurred in the
purchase or use of, or exposure to, talc, including talc contained in any product, or to the risk of, or responsibility for, any such
damage or injury, except for any liabilities for which the exclusive remedy is provided under a workers’ compensation statute or act
(the Talc-Related Liabilities).
In October 2021, notwithstanding the Company’s confidence in the safety of its talc products, the Debtor filed a voluntary petition
with the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Western District of North Carolina, Charlotte Division, seeking relief under chapter
11 of the Bankruptcy Code (the LTL Bankruptcy Case). All litigation against LTL, Old JJCI, New JJCI, the Company, other of their
corporate affiliates, identified retailers, insurance companies, and certain other parties (the Protected Parties) was stayed, although
LTL did agree to lift the stay on a small number of appeals where appeal bonds had been filed. The LTL Bankruptcy Case was
transferred to the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of New Jersey. Claimants filed motions to dismiss the LTL
Bankruptcy Case and, following a multiple day hearing, the New Jersey Bankruptcy Court denied those motions in March 2022.
The claimants subsequently filed notices of appeal as to the denial of the motions to dismiss the LTL Bankruptcy Case and the
extension of the stay to the Protected Parties. On January 30, 2023, the Third Circuit reversed the Bankruptcy Court’s ruling and
remanded to the Bankruptcy Court to dismiss the LTL bankruptcy.
LTL filed a petition for rehearing of the Third Circuit’s decision, which was denied in March 2023. LTL subsequently filed a motion
in the Third Circuit to stay the mandate directing the New Jersey Bankruptcy Court to dismiss the LTL bankruptcy pending filing
and disposition of a petition for writ of certiorari to the United States Supreme Court. The Third Circuit denied the motion to stay
the mandate and issued the mandate.
In April 2023, the New Jersey Bankruptcy Court dismissed the LTL Bankruptcy Case, effectively lifting the stay as to all parties and
returning the talc litigation to the tort system. LTL re-filed in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of New Jersey
seeking relief under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code (the LTL 2 Bankruptcy Case). As a result of the new filing, all talc claims
against LTL were again automatically stayed pursuant to section 362 of the Bankruptcy Code. Additionally, the New Jersey
Bankruptcy Court issued a temporary restraining order staying all litigation as to LTL, Old JJCI, New JJCI, the Company, identified
retailers, and certain other parties (the New Protected Parties).
Also in April 2023, the New Jersey Bankruptcy Court issued a decision that granted limited injunctive relief to the Company and
the New Protected Parties (the LTL 2 Preliminary Injunction). The LTL 2 Preliminary Injunction remained in force until late August
2023, following the Bankruptcy Court’s extension of the initial LTL 2 Preliminary Injunction in June 2023. Under the LTL 2
Preliminary Injunction, except for in those cases filed in the federal court ovarian cancer multi-district litigation, discovery in all
personal injury and wrongful death matters was permitted to proceed.
Furthermore, in April 2023, the Talc Claimants' Committee filed a motion to dismiss the LTL 2 Bankruptcy followed by similar
motions from other claimants. Hearings on the motions to dismiss occurred in June 2023. On July 28, 2023, the court dismissed
the LTL 2 Bankruptcy case and, the same day, the Company stated its intent to appeal the decision and to continue its efforts to
obtain a resolution of the talc claims. In September 2023, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order granting LTL leave to seek a
direct appeal to the Third Circuit Court of Appeals. In October 2023, the Third Circuit granted LTL’s petition for a direct appeal.
Briefing is ongoing.90Following the dismissal of LTL 2, new lawsuits were filed and cases across the country that had been stayed were reactivated.
The majority of the cases are pending in federal court, organized in a multi-district litigation (MDL) in the United States District
Court for the District of New Jersey. In the MDL, case-specific discovery is proceeding with an expectation that a trial will occur in
early 2025. Separately, discovery and pre-trial activity is underway in various individually filed and set cases around the country,
with most activity for such cases centralized in New Jersey and California.
In the original bankruptcy case, the Company agreed to provide funding to LTL for the payment of amounts the New Jersey
Bankruptcy Court determines are owed by LTL and the establishment of a $ 2 billion trust in furtherance of this purpose. The
Company established a reserve for approximately $ 2 billion in connection with the aforementioned trust. During the bankruptcy
proceedings LTL had been de-consolidated by the Company. In the LTL 2 Bankruptcy Case, the Company had agreed to
contribute an additional amount which, when added to the prior $ 2 billion, would be a total reserve of approximately $ 9 billion
payable over 25 years (nominal value approximately $ 12 billion discounted at a rate of 4.41 %), to resolve all the current and
future talc claims. The approximate $ 9 billion reserve encompasses actual and contemplated settlements, of which approximately
one-third is recorded as a current liability. The recorded amount remains the Company’s best estimate of probable loss after the
dismissal.
The parties have not yet reached a resolution of all talc matters and the Company is unable to estimate the possible loss or range
of loss beyond the amount accrued.
A class action advancing claims relating to industrial talc was filed against the Company and others in New Jersey state court in
May 2022 (the Edley Class Action). The Edley Class Action asserts, among other things, that the Company fraudulently defended
past asbestos personal injury lawsuits arising from exposure to industrial talc mined, milled, and manufactured before January 6,
1989 by the Company’s then wholly owned subsidiary, Windsor Minerals, Inc., which is currently a debtor in the Imerys Bankruptcy
described hereafter. The Company removed the Edley Class Action to federal court in the District of New Jersey. In October 2022,
the Company filed motions to dismiss and to deny certification of a class to pursue the Edley Class Action in the New Jersey
District Court. Argument on the motions was heard in November 2023. Thereafter, the Company resolved this matter.
In February 2019, the Company’s talc supplier, Imerys Talc America, Inc. and two of its affiliates, Imerys Talc Vermont, Inc. and
Imerys Talc Canada, Inc. (collectively, Imerys) filed a voluntary petition for relief under chapter 11 of the United States Code (the
Bankruptcy Code) in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (Imerys Bankruptcy). The Imerys Bankruptcy
relates to Imerys’s potential liability for personal injury from exposure to talcum powder sold by Imerys. In its bankruptcy, Imerys
alleges it has claims against the Company for indemnification and rights to joint insurance proceeds. In its bankruptcy, Imerys
proposed a chapter 11 plan (the Imerys Plan) that contemplated all talc-related claims against it being channeled to a trust along
with its alleged indemnification rights against the Company. Following confirmation and consummation of the plan, the trust would
pay talc claims pursuant to proposed trust distribution procedures (the TDP) and then seek indemnification from the Company.
In February 2021, Cyprus Mines Corporation (Cyprus), which had owned certain Imerys talc mines, filed a voluntary petition for
relief under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code and filed its Disclosure Statement and Plan (the Cyprus Plan). The Cyprus Plan
contemplates a settlement with Imerys and talc claimants where Cyprus would make a monetary contribution to a trust established
under the Imerys Plan in exchange for an injunction against talc claims asserted against it and certain affiliated parties.
The Imerys Plan proceeded to solicitation in early 2021. However, the Imerys Plan did not receive the requisite number of votes to
be confirmed after the Bankruptcy Court ruled certain votes cast in favor of the Imerys Plan should be disregarded. Imerys
subsequently canceled its confirmation hearing.
Imerys, the Imerys Tort Claimants’ Committee, and the Imerys Future Claimants’ Representative, along with Cyprus, the Cyprus
Tort Claimants’ Committee, and the Cyprus Future Claimants’ Representative (collectively the Mediation Parties) have been
engaged in mediation since shortly after the confirmation hearing was canceled in October 2021. In September 2023, the
Bankruptcy Court entered an order extending the term of the mediation among the Mediation Parties through the end of December
2023. The Bankruptcy Court also authorized Imerys and Cyprus to proceed with mediation with certain of their insurers through the
end of December 2023.
In September 2023, Imerys and Cyprus filed amended plans of reorganization. The amended plans contemplate a similar construct
as the prior Imerys and Cyprus Plans, including all talc claims against Imerys and Cyprus (and certain other protected parties)
being channeled to a trust along with Imerys’s and Cyprus’s alleged indemnification rights against the Company. In January 2024,
Imerys and Cyprus filed revised TDP. In February 2024, Imerys and Cyprus filed certain motions related to their Disclosure
Statement.
In February 2018, a securities class action lawsuit was filed against the Company and certain named officers in the United States
District Court for the District of New Jersey, alleging that the Company violated the federal securities laws by failing to disclose
alleged asbestos contamination in body powders containing talc, primarily JOHNSON’S Baby Powder, and that purchasers of the
Company’s shares suffered losses as a result. In April 2019, the Company moved to dismiss the complaint. In
2023 Annual Report 91December 2019, the Court denied, in part, the motion to dismiss. In April 2021, briefing on Plaintiff’s motion for class certification
was completed. The case was stayed in May 2022 pursuant to the LTL Bankruptcy Case and was reopened in May 2023. In
December 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for class certification. In January 2024, Defendants filed a petition with the
Third Circuit under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 23(f) for permission to appeal the Court’s order granting class certification. Fact
discovery is proceeding.
A lawsuit was brought against the Company in the Superior Court of California for the County of San Diego alleging violations of
California’s Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA) relating to JOHNSON’S Baby Powder. In that lawsuit, the plaintiffs allege that
the Company violated the CLRA by failing to provide required Proposition 65 warnings. In July 2019, the Company filed a notice of
removal to the United States District Court for the Southern District of California and plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint
shortly thereafter. In October 2019, the Company moved to dismiss the second amended complaint for failure to state a claim
upon which relief may be granted. In response to those motions, plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint. In December 2019, the
Company moved to dismiss the third amended complaint for failure to state a claim upon which relief may be granted. In April
2020, the Court granted the motion to dismiss but granted leave to amend. In May 2020, plaintiffs filed a Fourth Amended
Complaint but indicated that they would be filing a motion for leave to file a fifth amended complaint. Plaintiffs filed a Fifth
Amended Complaint in August 2020. The Company moved to dismiss the Fifth Amended Complaint for failure to state a claim
upon which relief may be granted. In January 2021, the Court issued an Order and opinion ruling in the Company’s favor and
granting the motion to dismiss with prejudice. In February 2021, Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Appeal with the Ninth Circuit. Plaintiffs
filed their opening brief in July 2021. The company filed its responsive brief in October 2021. After the Notice of Suggestion of
Bankruptcy was filed with the Ninth Circuit, a stay was imposed, and the Court held the reply deadline in abeyance. In September
2023, the stay lifted. With briefing complete, the Court is expected to either schedule oral argument or issue its decision at any
time.
In June 2014, the Mississippi Attorney General filed a complaint in Chancery Court of The First Judicial District of Hinds County,
Mississippi against the Company and Johnson & Johnson Consumer Companies, Inc. (now known as Johnson & Johnson
Consumer Inc.) (collectively, JJCI). The complaint alleges that JJCI violated the Mississippi Consumer Protection Act by failing to
disclose alleged health risks associated with female consumers’ use of talc contained in JOHNSON’S Baby Powder and
JOHNSON’S Shower to Shower (a product divested in 2012) and seeks injunctive and monetary relief. In February 2022, the trial
court set the case for trial to begin in February 2023. However, in October 2022, the LTL bankruptcy court issued an order staying
the case. In March 2023, the Third Circuit issued the mandate to dismiss the LTL Bankruptcy Case and in April 2023, the New
Jersey Bankruptcy Court dismissed the LTL Bankruptcy Case, effectively lifting the stay as to this matter. The State requested a
new trial setting. Later in April 2023, the trial court set a new trial date for April 2024. The Company filed summary judgment and
Daubert motions. The State filed a limited Daubert motion. The parties agreed to the Court's request for mediation. A pretrial
conference is set for February 2024 and trial is scheduled for April 2024. However, the Company is actively engaged in resolution
discussions concerning this matter.
In January 2020, the State of New Mexico filed a consumer protection case alleging that the Company deceptively marketed and
sold its talcum powder products by making misrepresentations about the safety of the products and the presence of carcinogens,
including asbestos. In March 2022, the New Mexico court denied the Company’s motion to compel the State of New Mexico to
engage in discovery of state agencies and denied the Company’s request for interlocutory appeal of that decision. The Company
then filed a Petition for Writ of Superintending Control and a Request for a Stay to the New Mexico Supreme Court on the issue of
the State of New Mexico’s discovery obligations. In April 2022, in view of the efforts to resolve talc-related claims in the LTL
Bankruptcy Case, the Company and the State agreed to a 60-day stay of all matters except for the pending writ before the New
Mexico Supreme Court, which expired in June 2022. Thereafter, the Company moved to enjoin prosecution of the case in the LTL
Bankruptcy Case. In October 2022, the bankruptcy court issued an order staying the case. In December 2022, the State filed an
appeal to the Third Circuit concerning the stay order. Separately, in September 2022, the New Mexico Supreme Court granted the
Company's request for a stay pending further briefing on the scope of the State of New Mexico’s discovery obligations. In March
2023, the Third Circuit issued the mandate to dismiss the LTL Bankruptcy Case and in April 2023, the New Jersey Bankruptcy
Court dismissed the LTL Bankruptcy Case, effectively lifting the stay as to this matter. While the State notified the New Mexico
Supreme Court of the lifted stay of litigation in April 2023, the Court has not taken any action since being notified of the lifting of
the stay and it remains in effect.
Forty-two states and the District of Columbia (including Mississippi and New Mexico) have commenced a joint investigation into the
Company’s marketing of its talcum powder products. At this time, the multi-state group has not asserted any claims against the
Company. Five states have issued Civil Investigative Demands seeking documents and other information. The Company has
produced documents to Arizona, North Carolina, Texas, and Washington and entered into confidentiality agreements. The
Company has not received any follow up requests from those states. In March 2022, each of the forty-two states agreed to
mediation of their claims in the LTL Bankruptcy Case. In July 2022, New Mexico and Mississippi indicated they would no longer
voluntarily submit to further mediation in the LTL Bankruptcy and would proceed with their respective cases in state court. In March
2023, the mediation was terminated. In January 2024, the Company reached an agreement in principle with the multi-state group
of state Attorneys General, subject to ongoing negotiation of non-monetary terms. The unique procedural history and status of the
New Mexico and Mississippi matters specifically have been discussed above.92In addition, the Company has received inquiries, subpoenas, and requests to produce documents regarding talc matters and the
LTL Bankruptcy Case from various governmental authorities. The Company has produced documents and responded to inquiries,
and will continue to cooperate with government inquiries.
Matters concerning opioids
Beginning in 2014 and continuing to the present, the Company and Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (JPI), along with other
pharmaceutical companies, have been named in close to 3,500 lawsuits related to the marketing of opioids, including
DURAGESIC, NUCYNTA and NUCYNTA ER. The majority of the cases have been filed by state and local governments. Similar
lawsuits have also been filed by private plaintiffs and organizations, including but not limited to the following: individual plaintiffs on
behalf of children born with Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome (NAS); hospitals; and health insurers/payors.
To date, the Company and JPI have litigated two of the cases to judgment and have prevailed in both, either at trial or on appeal.
In October 2019, the Company announced a proposed agreement in principle with a negotiating committee of state Attorneys
General to settle all remaining government opioid litigation claims nationwide. Under the final national settlement agreement, which
was announced in July 2021, the Company agreed to pay up to $ 5.0 billion to resolve all opioid lawsuits and future opioid claims
by states, cities, counties, local school districts and other special districts, and tribal governments, contingent on sufficient
participation by eligible government entities, and with credits back for entities that declined or were ineligible to participate. In July
2021, the Company announced that the terms of the agreement to settle the state and subdivision claims had been finalized and
approximately 60 % of the all-in settlement was paid by the end of fiscal 2023. The expected payment schedule provides that
approximately $ 0.7 billion of payments are to be paid by the end of fiscal 2024. The agreement is not an admission of liability or
wrongdoing, and it provides for the release of all opioid-related claims against the Company, JPI, and their affiliates (including the
Company’s former subsidiaries Tasmanian Alkaloids Pty, Ltd. and Noramco, Inc.). As of January 2024, the Company and JPI have
settled or otherwise resolved the opioid claims advanced by all government entity claimants except the City of Baltimore, a number
of school districts and other claimants.
The Company and JPI continue to defend the cases brought by the remaining government entity litigants as well as the cases
brought by private litigants, including NAS claimants, hospitals, and health insurers/payors. Counting the private litigant cases,
there are approximately 35 remaining opioid cases against the Company and JPI in various state courts, 430 remaining cases in
the Ohio MDL, and 4 additional cases in other federal courts. Some of these cases have been dismissed and are being appealed
by the plaintiffs and certain others are scheduled for trial in 2024 or 2025.
In addition, the Province of British Columbia filed suit against the Company and its Canadian affiliate Janssen Inc., and many other
industry members, in Canada, and is seeking to have that action certified as an opt in class action on behalf of other
provincial/territorial and the federal governments in Canada. Additional proposed class actions have been filed in Canada against
the Company and Janssen Inc., and many other industry members, by and on behalf of people who used opioids (for personal
injuries), municipalities and First Nations bands. These actions allege a variety of claims related to opioid marketing practices,
including false advertising, unfair competition, public nuisance, consumer fraud violations, deceptive acts and practices, false
claims and unjust enrichment. An adverse judgment in any of these lawsuits could result in the imposition of large monetary
penalties and significant damages including, punitive damages, cost of abatement, substantial fines, equitable remedies and other
sanctions.
From June 2017 through December 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors received a series of shareholder demand letters
alleging breaches of fiduciary duties related to the marketing of opioids. The Board retained independent counsel to investigate the
allegations in the demands, and in April 2020, independent counsel delivered a report to the Board recommending that the
Company reject the shareholder demands and take the steps that are necessary or appropriate to secure dismissal of related
derivative litigation. The Board unanimously adopted the recommendations of the independent counsel’s report.
In November 2019, one of the shareholders who sent a demand filed a derivative complaint against the Company as the nominal
defendant and certain current and former directors and officers as defendants in the Superior Court of New Jersey. The complaint
alleges breaches of fiduciary duties related to the marketing of opioids, and that the Company has suffered damages as a result of
those alleged breaches. A series of additional derivative complaints making similar allegations against the same and similar
defendants were filed in New Jersey state and federal courts in 2019 and 2020. By 2022, all but two state court cases had been
voluntarily dismissed. In February 2022, the state court granted the Company’s motion to dismiss one of the two cases, and the
shareholder that brought the second case filed a notice of dismissal. The shareholder whose complaint was dismissed filed a
motion for reconsideration. In May 2022, the state court held oral argument on the motion for reconsideration and subsequently
denied the motion. The shareholder has appealed the state court’s dismissal order.
2023 Annual Report 93Product liability
The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are involved in numerous product liability claims and lawsuits involving multiple
products. Claimants in these cases seek substantial compensatory and, where available, punitive damages. While the Company
believes it has substantial defenses, it is not feasible to predict the ultimate outcome of litigation. From time to time, even if it has
substantial defenses, the Company considers isolated settlements based on a variety of circumstances. The Company has
accrued for these matters and will continue to monitor each related legal issue and adjust accruals as might be warranted based
on new information and further developments in accordance with ASC 450-20-25, Contingencies. The Company accrues an
estimate of the legal defense costs needed to defend each matter when those costs are probable and can be reasonably
estimated. For certain of these matters, the Company has accrued additional amounts such as estimated costs associated with
settlements, damages and other losses. Product liability accruals can represent projected product liability for thousands of claims
around the world, each in different litigation environments and with different fact patterns. Changes to the accruals may be required
in the future as additional information becomes available.
The table below contains the most significant of these cases and provides the approximate number of plaintiffs in the United
States with direct claims in pending lawsuits regarding injuries allegedly due to the relevant product or product category as of
December 31, 2023:
Product or product category Number of plaintiffs
Body powders containing talc, primarily JOHNSON’S Baby Powder 59,140
DePuy ASR XL Acetabular System and DePuy ASR Hip Resurfacing System 160
PINNACLE Acetabular Cup System 920
Pelvic meshes 6,720
ETHICON PHYSIOMESH Flexible Composite Mesh 370
RISPERDAL 200
ELMIRON 2,150
The number of pending lawsuits is expected to fluctuate as certain lawsuits are settled or dismissed and additional lawsuits are
filed. There may be additional claims that have not yet been filed.
MedTech
DePuy ASR XL Acetabular System and ASR Hip Resurfacing System
In August 2010, DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. (DePuy) announced a worldwide voluntary recall of its ASR XL Acetabular System and
DePuy ASR Hip Resurfacing System (ASR Hip) used in hip replacement surgery. Claims for personal injury have been made
against DePuy and the Company. Cases filed in federal courts in the United States have been organized as a multi-district
litigation in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio. Litigation has also been filed in countries outside of
the United States, primarily in the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, Ireland, Germany, India and Italy. In November 2013, DePuy
reached an agreement with a Court-appointed committee of lawyers representing ASR Hip plaintiffs to establish a program to
settle claims with eligible ASR Hip patients in the United States who had surgery to replace their ASR Hips, known as revision
surgery, as of August 2013. DePuy reached additional agreements in February 2015 and March 2017, which further extended the
settlement program to include ASR Hip patients who had revision surgeries after August 2013 and prior to February 15, 2017. This
settlement program has resolved more than 10,000 claims, thereby bringing to resolution significant ASR Hip litigation activity in
the United States. However, lawsuits in the United States remain, and the settlement program does not address litigation outside
of the United States. In Australia, a class action settlement was reached that resolved the claims of the majority of ASR Hip
patients in that country. In Canada, the Company has reached agreements to settle the class actions filed in that country. The
Company continues to receive information with respect to potential additional costs associated with this recall on a worldwide
basis. The Company has established accruals for the costs associated with the United States settlement program and ASR
Hip-related product liability litigation.
DePuy PINNACLE Acetabular Cup System
Claims for personal injury have also been made against DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. and the Company (collectively, DePuy) relating
to the PINNACLE Acetabular Cup System used in hip replacement surgery. Product liability lawsuits continue to be filed, and the
Company continues to receive information with respect to potential costs and the anticipated number of cases. Most cases filed in
federal courts in the United States have been organized as a multi-district litigation in the United States94District Court for the Northern District of Texas (Texas MDL). Beginning on June 1, 2022, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict
Litigation ceased transfer of new cases into the Texas MDL, and there are now cases pending in federal court outside the Texas
MDL. Litigation also has been filed in state courts and in countries outside of the United States. During the first quarter of 2019,
DePuy established a United States settlement program to resolve these cases. As part of the settlement program, adverse verdicts
have been settled. The Company has established an accrual for product liability litigation associated with the PINNACLE
Acetabular Cup System and the related settlement program.
Ethicon Pelvic Mesh
Claims for personal injury have been made against Ethicon, Inc. (Ethicon) and the Company arising out of Ethicon’s pelvic mesh
devices used to treat stress urinary incontinence and pelvic organ prolapse. The Company continues to receive information with
respect to potential costs and additional cases. Cases filed in federal courts in the United States had been organized as a multi-
district litigation (MDL) in the United States District Court for the Southern District of West Virginia. In March 2021, the MDL Court
entered an order closing the MDL. The MDL Court has remanded cases for trial to the jurisdictions where the case was originally
filed and additional pelvic mesh lawsuits have been filed, and remain, outside of the MDL. The Company has settled or otherwise
resolved the majority of the United States cases and the estimated costs associated with these settlements and the remaining
cases are reflected in the Company’s accruals. In addition, class actions and individual personal injury cases or claims seeking
damages for alleged injury resulting from Ethicon’s pelvic mesh devices have been commenced in various countries outside of the
United States, including claims and cases in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Ireland, Italy, Spain and
Slovenia and class actions in Israel, Australia, Canada and South Africa. In November 2019, the Federal Court of Australia issued
a judgment regarding its findings with respect to liability in relation to the three Lead Applicants and generally in relation to the
design, manufacture, pre and post-market assessments and testing, and supply and promotion of the devices in Australia used to
treat stress urinary incontinence and pelvic organ prolapse. In September 2022, after exhausting its appeals, the Company
reached an in-principle agreement to resolve the two pelvic mesh class actions in Australia and in March 2023 the Federal Court
approved the settlement. The class actions in Canada were discontinued in 2020 as a result of a settlement of a group of cases
and an agreement to resolve the Israeli class action was reached in May 2021. The parties in the Israeli class action are currently
finalizing the terms of the settlement. A motion to approve the settlement was filed with the Court. The Company has established
accruals with respect to product liability litigation associated with Ethicon’s pelvic mesh products.
Ethicon Physiomesh
Following a June 2016 worldwide market withdrawal of Ethicon Physiomesh Flexible Composite Mesh (Physiomesh), claims for
personal injury have been made against Ethicon, Inc. (Ethicon) and the Company alleging personal injury arising out of the use of
this hernia mesh device. Cases filed in federal courts in the United States have been organized as a multi-district litigation (MDL)
in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. A multi-county litigation (MCL) also has been formed in New
Jersey state court and assigned to Atlantic County for cases pending in New Jersey. In addition to the matters in the MDL and
MCL, there are additional lawsuits pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, which are part of
the MDL for polypropylene mesh devices manufactured by C.R. Bard, Inc., and lawsuits pending in two New Jersey MCLs formed
for Proceed/Proceed Ventral Patch and Prolene Hernia systems, and lawsuits pending outside the United States. In May 2021,
Ethicon and lead counsel for the plaintiffs entered into a term sheet to resolve approximately 3,600 Physiomesh cases (covering
approximately 4,300 plaintiffs) pending in the MDL and MCL at that time. A master settlement agreement (MSA) was entered into
in September 2021 and includes 3,729 cases in the MDL and MCL. All deadlines and trial settings in those proceedings are
currently stayed pending the completion of the settlement agreement. Of the cases subject to the MSA, 3,390 have been
dismissed with prejudice. Ethicon has received releases from 3,584 plaintiffs, and releases continue to be submitted as part of the
settlement process. Post-settlement cases in the Physiomesh MDL and MCL are subject to docket control orders requiring early
expert reports and discovery requirements. In May 2023, Ethicon entered an additional settlement to resolve the claims of 292
Physiomesh claimants. That settlement is proceeding, and releases are being returned. As of December 31, 2023, there were 5
Physiomesh cases in the MDL and 3 in the New Jersey MCL which are not included in either settlement and which remain subject
to the docket control orders.
Claims have also been filed against Ethicon and the Company alleging personal injuries arising from the PROCEED Mesh and
PROCEED Ventral Patch hernia mesh products. In March 2019, the New Jersey Supreme Court entered an order consolidating
these cases pending in New Jersey as an MCL in Atlantic County Superior Court. Additional cases have been filed in various
federal and state courts in the United States, and in jurisdictions outside the United States.
Ethicon and the Company also have been subject to claims for personal injuries arising from the PROLENE Polypropylene Hernia
System. In January 2020, the New Jersey Supreme Court created an MCL in Atlantic County Superior Court to handle such cases.
Cases involving this product have also been filed in other federal and state courts in the United States.
In October 2022, an agreement in principle, subject to various conditions, was reached to settle the majority of the pending cases
involving Proceed, Proceed Ventral Patch, Prolene Hernia System and related multi-layered mesh products, as well as a number
of unfiled claims. All litigation activities in the two New Jersey MCLs are stayed pending effectuation of the proposed settlement.
Future cases that are filed in the New Jersey MCLs will be subject to docket control orders requiring early expert reports and
discovery requirements.2023 Annual Report 95The Company has established accruals with respect to product liability litigation associated with Ethicon Physiomesh Flexible
Composite Mesh, PROCEED Mesh and PROCEED Ventral Patch, and PROLENE Polypropylene Hernia System products.
Innovative Medicine
RISPERDAL
Claims for personal injury have been made against Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and the Company arising out of the use of
RISPERDAL, and related compounds, indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia, acute manic or mixed episodes associated with
bipolar I disorder and irritability associated with autism. Lawsuits primarily have been filed in state courts in Pennsylvania,
California, and Missouri. Other actions are pending in various courts in the United States and Canada. Product liability lawsuits
continue to be filed, and the Company continues to receive information with respect to potential costs and the anticipated number
of cases. The Company has successfully defended a number of these cases but there have been verdicts against the Company,
including a verdict in October 2019 of $ 8.0 billion of punitive damages related to one plaintiff, which the trial judge reduced to $
6.8 million in January 2020. In September 2021, the Company entered into a settlement in principle with the counsel representing
plaintiffs in this matter and in substantially all of the outstanding cases in the United States. The costs associated with this and
other settlements are reflected in the Company’s accruals.
ELMIRON
Claims for personal injury have been made against a number of Johnson & Johnson companies, including Janssen
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and the Company, arising out of the use of ELMIRON, a prescription medication indicated for the relief of
bladder pain or discomfort associated with interstitial cystitis. These lawsuits, which allege that ELMIRON contributes to the
development of permanent retinal injury and vision loss, have been filed in both state and federal courts across the United States.
In December 2020, lawsuits filed in federal courts in the United States, including putative class action cases seeking medical
monitoring, were organized as a multi-district litigation in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. All cases in
the multi-district litigation are in active discussions regarding resolution, and as a result, all activity is stayed. In addition, cases
have been filed in various state courts of New Jersey, which have been coordinated in a multi-county litigation in Bergen County,
as well as the Court of Common Pleas in Philadelphia, which have been coordinated and granted mass tort designation. No
activity has taken place in the New Jersey state court litigation; however, three bellwether trials have been set in Philadelphia for
March, April and May 2024. In addition, three class action lawsuits have been filed in Canada. Product liability lawsuits continue to
be filed, and the Company continues to receive information with respect to potential costs and the anticipated number of cases.
The Company has established accruals for defense and indemnity costs associated with ELMIRON related product liability
litigation.
Intellectual property
Certain subsidiaries of the Company are subject, from time to time, to legal proceedings and claims related to patent, trademark
and other intellectual property matters arising out of their businesses. Many of these matters involve challenges to the coverage
and/or validity of the patents on various products and allegations that certain of the Company’s products infringe the patents of
third parties. Although these subsidiaries believe that they have substantial defenses to these challenges and allegations with
respect to all significant patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters. A loss in any of these cases
could adversely affect the ability of these subsidiaries to sell their products, result in loss of sales due to loss of market exclusivity,
require the payment of past damages and future royalties, and may result in a non- cash impairment charge for any associated
intangible asset.
Innovative Medicine - litigation against filers of abbreviated new drug applications (ANDAs)
The Company’s subsidiaries have brought lawsuits against generic companies that have filed ANDAs with the U.S. FDA (or similar
lawsuits outside of the United States) seeking to market generic versions of products sold by various subsidiaries of the Company
prior to expiration of the applicable patents covering those products. These lawsuits typically include allegations of
non-infringement and/or invalidity of patents listed in FDA’s publication “Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence
Evaluations” (commonly known as the Orange Book). In each of these lawsuits, the Company’s subsidiaries are seeking an order
enjoining the defendant from marketing a generic version of a product before the expiration of the relevant patents (Orange Book
Listed Patents). In the event the Company’s subsidiaries are not successful in an action, or any automatic statutory stay expires
before the court rulings are obtained, the generic companies involved would have the ability, upon regulatory approval, to introduce
generic versions of their products to the market, resulting in the potential for substantial market share and revenue losses for the
applicable products, and which may result in a non-cash impairment charge in any associated intangible asset. In addition, fromtime to time, the Company’s subsidiaries may settle these types of actions
96and such settlements can involve the introduction of generic versions of the products at issue to the market prior to the expiration
of the relevant patents.
The Inter Partes Review (IPR) process with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), created under the 2011
America Invents Act, is also being used at times by generic companies in conjunction with ANDAs and lawsuits to challenge the
applicable patents.
XARELTO
Beginning in March 2021, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Bayer Pharma AG; Bayer AG; and Bayer Intellectual Property GmbH
filed patent infringement lawsuits in United States district courts against generic manufacturers who have filed ANDAs seeking
approval to market generic versions of XARELTO before expiration of certain Orange Book Listed Patents. The following entities
are named defendants: Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Inc.; Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Ltd.; Lupin Limited; Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc.;
Taro Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.; Taro Pharmaceuticals U.S.A., Inc.; Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc.; Mylan Pharmaceuticals
Inc.; Mylan Inc.; Mankind Pharma Limited; Apotex Inc.; Apotex Corp.; Auson Pharmaceuticals Inc.; Macleods Pharmaceuticals Ltd;
Macleods Pharma USA, Inc.; Indoco Remedies Limited; FPP Holding Company LLC; Umedica Laboratories Pvt. Ltd.; Aurobindo
Pharma Limited; Aurobindo Pharma USA, Inc.; Cipla Ltd.; Cipla USA Inc.; and InvaGen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. The following U.S.
patents are included in one or more cases: 9,539,218 and 10,828,310.
U.S. Patent No. 10,828,310 was also under consideration by the USPTO in an IPR proceeding. In July 2023, the USPTO issued a
final written decision finding the claims of the patent invalid. In September 2023, Bayer Pharma AG filed an appeal to the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
OPSUMIT
Beginning in January 2023 Actelion Pharmaceuticals Ltd and Actelion Pharmaceuticals US, Inc. filed patent infringement lawsuits
in United States district courts against generic manufacturers who have filed ANDAs seeking approval to market generic versions
of OPSUMIT before expiration of certain Orange Book Listed Patents. The following entities are named defendants: Sun
Pharmaceutical Industries Limited; Sun Pharmaceutical Industries, Inc.; MSN Laboratories Private Limited; MSN Pharmaceuticals
Inc.; and Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. The following U.S. patents are included in one or more cases: 7,094,781; and 10,946,015. In
November 2023, the Company entered into a confidential settlement agreement with MSN Laboratories Private Limited and MSN
Pharmaceuticals Inc. In December 2023, the Company entered into a confidential settlement agreement with Sun Pharmaceutical
Industries Limited and Sun Pharmaceuticals Industries, Inc.
INVEGA SUSTENNA
Beginning in January 2018, Janssen Pharmaceutica NV and Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. filed patent infringement lawsuits in
United States district courts against generic manufacturers who have filed ANDAs seeking approval to market generic versions of
INVEGA SUSTENNA before expiration of the Orange Book Listed Patent. The following entities are named defendants: Teva
Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc.; Mylan Laboratories Limited; Pharmascience Inc.; Mallinckrodt PLC; Specgx LLC; Tolmar, Inc.; and
Accord Healthcare, Inc. The following U.S. patent is included in one or more cases: 9,439,906.
Beginning in February 2018, Janssen Inc. and Janssen Pharmaceutica NV initiated a Statement of Claim under Section 6 of the
Patented Medicines (Notice of Compliance) Regulations against generic manufacturers who have filed ANDSs seeking approval to
market generic versions of INVEGA SUSTENNA before expiration of the listed patent. The following entities are named
defendants: Pharmascience Inc. and Apotex Inc. The following Canadian patent is included in one or more cases: 2,655,335.
INVEGA TRINZA
Beginning in September 2020, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, and Janssen Research &
Development, LLC filed patent infringement lawsuits in United States district courts against generic manufacturers who have filed
ANDAs seeking approval to market generic versions of INVEGA TRINZA before expiration of the Orange Book Listed Patent. The
following entities are named defendants: Mylan Laboratories Limited; Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc.; and Mylan Institutional LLC. The
following U.S. patent is included in one or more cases: 10,143,693. In May 2023, the District Court issued a decision finding that
Mylan’s proposed generic product infringes the asserted patent and that the patent is not invalid. Mylan has appealed the verdict.
SYMTUZA
Beginning in November 2021, Janssen Products, L.P., Janssen Sciences Ireland Unlimited Company, Gilead Sciences, Inc. and
Gilead Sciences Ireland UC filed patent infringement lawsuits in United States district courts against generic manufacturers who
have filed ANDAs seeking approval to market generic versions of SYMTUZA before expiration of certain Orange Book Listed
Patents. The following entities are named defendants: Lupin Limited; Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; MSN Laboratories
2023 Annual Report 97Private Ltd.; MSN Life Sciences Private Ltd.; MSN Pharmaceuticals Inc.; Apotex Inc.; and Apotex Corp. The following U.S. patents
are included in one or more cases: 10,039,718 and 10,786,518.
ERLEADA
Beginning in May 2022, Aragon Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Janssen Biotech, Inc. (collectively, Janssen), Sloan Kettering Institute for
Cancer Research (SKI) and The Regents of the University of California filed patent infringement lawsuits in United States district
courts against generic manufacturers who have filed ANDAs seeking approval to market generic versions of ERLEADA before
expiration of certain Orange Book Listed Patents. The following entities are named defendants: Lupin Limited; Lupin
Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Zydus Worldwide DMCC; Zydus Pharmaceuticals (USA), Inc.; Zydus Lifesciences Limited; Sandoz Inc.;
Eugia Pharma Specialities Limited; Aurobindo Pharma USA, Inc.; Auromedics Pharma LLC; Hetero Labs Limited Unit V; and
Hetero USA, Inc. The following U.S. patents are included in one or more cases: 9,481,663; 9,884,054; 10,052,314 (which reissued
as RE49,353); 10,702,508; 10,849,888; 8,445,507; 8,802,689; 9,388,159; 9,987,261; and RE49,353. In December 2023, Janssen
and SKI voluntarily dismissed their case against Lupin Limited and Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
UPTRAVI
Beginning in November 2022, Actelion Pharmaceuticals US Inc., Actelion Pharmaceuticals Ltd and Nippon Shinyaku Co., Ltd. filed
patent infringement lawsuits in United States district courts against generic manufacturers who have filed ANDAs seeking approval
to market generic versions of UPTRAVI intravenous before expiration of certain Orange Book Listed Patents. The following entities
are named defendants: Alembic Pharmaceuticals Limited, Alembic Pharmaceuticals Inc.; Lupin Ltd.; Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc.;
Cipla Limited; Cipla USA Inc.; MSN Laboratories Private Ltd.; and MSN Pharmaceuticals Inc. The following U.S. patents are
included in one or more cases: 8,791,122 and 9,284,280. In November 2023, the Company entered into a confidential settlement
agreement with Alembic Pharmaceuticals Limited and Alembic Pharmaceuticals Inc.
SPRAVATO
Beginning in May 2023, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Janssen Pharmaceutica NV filed patent infringement lawsuits in United
States district courts against generic manufacturers who have filed ANDAs seeking approval to market generic versions of
SPRAVATO before expiration of certain Orange Book Listed Patents. The following entities are named defendants: Sandoz Inc.;
Hikma Pharmaceuticals Inc. USA; Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC; and Alkem Laboratories Ltd. The following U.S. patents are
included in one or more cases: 10,869,844; 11,173,134; 11,311,500; and 11,446,260.
STELARA
In November 2023, Biocon Biologics Inc. filed a Petition for Inter Partes Review with the USPTO seeking review of U.S. Patent No.
10,961,307 related to methods of treating ulcerative colitis with ustekinumab.
MedTech
In March 2016, Abiomed, Inc. (Abiomed) filed a declaratory judgment action against Maquet Cardiovascular LLC (Maquet) in U.S.
District Court for the District of Massachusetts seeking a declaration that the Impella does not infringe certain Maquet patents,
currently U.S. Patent Nos. 7,022,100 (’100); 8,888,728; 9,327,068; 9,545,468; 9,561,314; and 9,597,437. Maquet counterclaimed
for infringement of each of those patents. After claim construction, Maquet alleged infringement of only the ’100 patent. In
September 2021, the court granted Abiomed’s motion for summary judgment of non-infringement of the ’100 patent, and in
September 2023, the district court entered final judgment in favor of Abiomed on all patents-in-suit. Maquet appealed.
Government proceedings
Like other companies in the pharmaceutical and medical technologies industries, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries are
subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local government agencies in the United States and other countries in which
they operate. Such regulation has been the basis of government investigations and litigations. The most significant litigation
brought by, and investigations conducted by, government agencies are listed below. It is possible that criminal charges and
substantial fines and/or civil penalties or damages could result from government investigations or litigation.
MedTech
In July 2018, the Public Prosecution Service in Rio de Janeiro and representatives from the Brazilian antitrust authority CADE
inspected the offices of more than 30 companies including Johnson & Johnson do Brasil Indústria e Comércio de Produtos para
Saúde Ltda. The authorities appear to be investigating allegations of possible anti-competitive behavior and possible improper
payments in the medical device industry. The Company continues to respond to inquiries regarding the Foreign98Corrupt Practices Act from the United States Department of Justice and the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
In July 2023, the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) issued Civil Investigative Demands to the Company, Johnson & Johnson
Surgical Vision, Inc., and Johnson & Johnson Vision Care, Inc. (collectively, “J&J Vision”) in connection with a civil investigation
under the False Claims Act relating to free or discounted intraocular lenses and equipment used in eye surgery, such as
phacoemulsification and laser systems. J&J Vision has begun producing documents and information responsive to the Civil
Investigative Demands. J&J Vision is in ongoing discussions with the DOJ regarding its inquiry.
Innovative Medicine
In July 2016, the Company and Janssen Products, LP were served with a qui tam complaint pursuant to the False Claims Act filed
in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging the off-label promotion of two HIV products, PREZISTA
and INTELENCE, and anti-kickback violations in connection with the promotion of these products. The complaint was filed under
seal in December 2012. The federal and state governments have declined to intervene, and the lawsuit is being prosecuted by the
relators. The Court denied summary judgment on all claims in December 2021. Daubert motions were granted in part and denied
in part in January 2022, and the case is proceeding to trial. Trial is scheduled for May 2024.
In March 2017, Janssen Biotech, Inc. (JBI) received a Civil Investigative Demand from the United States Department of Justice
regarding a False Claims Act investigation concerning management and advisory services provided to rheumatology and
gastroenterology practices that purchased REMICADE or SIMPONI ARIA. In August 2019, the United States Department of Justice
notified JBI that it was closing the investigation. Subsequently, the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts
unsealed a qui tam False Claims Act complaint, which was served on the Company. The Department of Justice had declined to
intervene in the qui tam lawsuit in August 2019. The Company filed a motion to dismiss, which was granted in part and denied in
part. Discovery is underway.
From time to time, the Company has received requests from a variety of United States Congressional Committees to produce
information relevant to ongoing congressional inquiries. It is the policy of Johnson & Johnson to cooperate with these inquiries by
producing the requested information.
General litigation
The Company or its subsidiaries are also parties to various proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, and comparable state, local or foreign laws in which
the primary relief sought is the Company’s agreement to implement remediation activities at designated hazardous waste sites or
to reimburse the government or third parties for the costs they have incurred in performing remediation as such sites.
In October 2017, certain United States service members and their families brought a complaint against a number of
pharmaceutical and medical devices companies, including Johnson & Johnson and certain of its subsidiaries in United States
District Court for the District of Columbia, alleging that the defendants violated the United States Anti-Terrorism Act. The complaint
alleges that the defendants provided funding for terrorist organizations through their sales practices pursuant to pharmaceutical
and medical device contracts with the Iraqi Ministry of Health. In July 2020, the District Court dismissed the complaint. In January
2022, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit reversed the District Court’s decision. In June 2023,
defendants filed a petition for a writ of certiorari to the United States Supreme Court.
In February 2024, a putative class action was filed against the Company, the Pension & Benefits Committee of Johnson &
Johnson, and certain named officers and employees, in United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. The complaint
alleges that defendants breached fiduciary duties under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) by allegedly
mismanaging the Company’s prescription-drug benefits program. The complaint seeks damages and other relief.
MedTech
In October 2020, Fortis Advisors LLC (Fortis), in its capacity as representative of the former stockholders of Auris Health Inc.
(Auris), filed a complaint against the Company, Ethicon Inc., and certain named officers and employees (collectively, Ethicon) in the
Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware. The complaint alleges breach of contract, fraud, and other causes of action against
Ethicon in connection with Ethicon’s acquisition of Auris in 2019. The complaint seeks damages and other relief. In December
2021, the Court granted in part and denied in part defendants’ motion to dismiss certain causes of action. All claims against the
individual defendants were dismissed. The trial was held in January 2024 and the decision is pending.
2023 Annual Report 99Innovative Medicine
In June 2019, the United States Federal Trade Commission (FTC) issued a Civil Investigative Demand to the Company and
Janssen Biotech, Inc. (collectively, Janssen) in connection with its investigation of whether Janssen’s REMICADE contracting
practices violate federal antitrust laws. The Company has produced documents and information responsive to the Civil
Investigative Demand. Janssen is in ongoing discussions with the FTC staff regarding its inquiry.
In February 2022, the United States Federal Trade Commission (FTC) issued Civil Investigative Demands to Johnson & Johnson
and Janssen Biotech, Inc. (collectively, Janssen) in connection with its investigation of whether advertising practices for
REMICADE violate federal law. Janssen has produced documents and information responsive to the Civil Investigative Demands.
Janssen is in ongoing discussions with the FTC staff regarding the inquiry.
In June 2022, Genmab A/S filed a Notice for Arbitration with International Institute for Conflict Prevention and Resolution (CPR)
against Janssen Biotech, Inc. seeking milestones and an extended royalty term for Darzalex FASPRO. In April 2023, the
Arbitration Panel ruled in Janssen's favor and dismissed Genmab’s claims. In January 2024, Genmab’s appeal of this dismissal
was denied.
In October 2018, two separate putative class actions were filed against Actelion Pharmaceutical Ltd., Actelion Pharmaceuticals
U.S., Inc., and Actelion Clinical Research, Inc. (collectively Actelion) in United States District Court for the District of Maryland and
United States District Court for the District of Columbia. The complaints allege that Actelion violated state and federal antitrust and
unfair competition laws by allegedly refusing to supply generic pharmaceutical manufacturers with samples of TRACLEER.
TRACLEER is subject to a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy required by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, which
imposes restrictions on distribution of the product. In January 2019, the plaintiffs dismissed the District of Columbia case and filed
a consolidated complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland.
In December 2023, a putative class action lawsuit was filed against the Company and Janssen Biotech Inc. (collectively “Janssen”)
in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. The complaint alleges that Janssen violated federal and state
antitrust laws and other state laws by delaying biosimilar competition with STELARA through the Janssen's enforcement of patent
rights covering STELARA. The complaint seeks damages and other relief.
In June 2022, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. filed a Demand for Arbitration against Emergent Biosol utions Inc. et al. (EBSI) with
the American Arbitration Association, alleging that EBSI breached the parties’ Manufacturing Services Agreement for the
Company’s COVID-19 vaccine. In July 2022, Emergent filed its answering statement and counterclaims . The hearing is scheduled
for July 2024.
10020. Restructuring
In fiscal 2023, the Company commenced restructuring actions within its Innovative Medicine and MedTech segments. The amounts
and details of the current year programs are included below.
In fiscal 2023, the Company completed a prioritization of its research and development (R&D) investment within its Innovative
Medicine segment to focus on the most promising medicines with the greatest benefit to patients. This resulted in the exit of
certain programs within certain therapeutic areas. The R&D program exits are primarily in infectious diseases and vaccines
including the discontinuation of its respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) adult vaccine program, hepatitis and HIV development. Pre- tax
Restructuring expenses of $ 479 million in the fiscal year 2023, included the termination of partnered and non-partnered
development program costs and asset impairments. The estimated costs of these total activities is between $ 500 million - $ 600
million and is expected to be completed by the end of fiscal year 2024.
In fiscal 2023, the Company initiated a restructuring program of its Orthopaedics franchise within the MedTech segment to
streamline operations by exiting certain markets, product lines and distribution network arrangements. The pre-tax restructuring
expense of $ 319 million in the fiscal year 2023 primarily included inventory and instrument charges related to market and product
exits. The estimated costs of the total program are between $ 700 million - $ 800 million and is expected to be completed by the
end of fiscal year 2025.
The following table summarizes the restructuring expenses for the fiscal year 2023:
(Pre-tax Dollars in Millions) 2023
Innovative Medicine Segment (1) $ 479
MedTech Segment (2) 319
Total Programs $ 798
(1) Included $ 449 million in Restructuring and $ 30 million in Cost of products sold on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings
(2) Included $ 40 million in Restructuring and $ 279 million in Cost of products sold on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings
Restructuring reserves as of December 31, 2023 and January 1, 2023 were insignificant.
2023 Annual Report 10121. Kenvue separation and discontinued operations
On May 8, 2023, Kenvue, completed an initial public offering (the IPO) resulting in the issuance of 198,734,444 shares of its
common stock, par value $ 0.01 per share (the “Kenvue Common Stock”), at an initial public offering of $ 22.00 per share for net
proceeds of $ 4.2 billion. The excess of the net proceeds from the IPO over the net book value of the Johnson & Johnson
divested interest was $ 2.5 billion and was recorded to additional paid-in capital. As of the closing of the IPO, Johnson & Johnson
owned approximately 89.6 % of the total outstanding shares of Kenvue Common Stock and at July 2, 2023, the non-controlling
interest of $ 1.3 billion associated with Kenvue was reflected in equity attributable to non-controlling interests in the consolidated
balance sheet in the fiscal second quarter of 2023.
On August 23, 2023, Johnson & Johnson completed the disposition of an additional 80.1 % ownership of Kenvue Common Stock
through an exchange offer, which resulted in Johnson & Johnson acquiring 190,955,436 shares of the Company’s common stock
in exchange for 1,533,830,450 shares of Kenvue Common Stock. The $ 31.4 billion of Johnson & Johnson common stock
received in the exchange offer is recorded in Treasury stock. Following the exchange offer, the Company owns 9.5 % of the total
outstanding shares of Kenvue Common Stock that was recorded in other assets within continuing operations at the fair market
value of $ 4.3 billion as of August 23, 2023. Subsequent changes are reflected in other income/expense and amounted to $ 0.4
billion expense through December 31, 2023.
Johnson & Johnson divested net assets of $ 11.6 billion as of August 23, 2023, and the accumulated other comprehensive loss
attributable to the Consumer Health business at that date was $ 4.3 billion. Additionally, at the date of the exchange offer,
Johnson & Johnson decreased the non-controlling interest by $ 1.2 billion to record the deconsolidation of Kenvue. This resulted
in a non-cash gain on the exchange offer of $ 21.0 billion that was recorded in Net earnings from discontinued operations, net of
taxes in the consolidated statements of earnings for the fiscal third quarter of 2023. This one-time gain includes a gain of $ 2.8
billion on the Kenvue Common Stock retained by Johnson & Johnson. The gain on the exchange offer qualifies as a tax-free
transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
Also in connection with the separation, Johnson & Johnson and Kenvue entered into a separation agreement and also entered into
various other agreements that provide for certain transactions to effect the transfer of the assets and liabilities of the Consumer
Health business to Kenvue and to govern various interim and ongoing relationships between Kenvue and Johnson & Johnson
following the completion of the Kenvue IPO, including transition services agreements (TSAs), transition manufacturing agreements
(TMAs), trademark agreements, intellectual property agreements, an employee matters agreement, and a tax matters agreement.
Under the TSAs, Johnson & Johnson will provide Kenvue various services and, similarly, Kenvue will provide Johnson & Johnson
various services. The provision of services under the TSAs generally will terminate within 24 months following the Kenvue IPO.
Additionally, Johnson & Johnson and Kenvue entered into TMAs pursuant to which Johnson & Johnson will manufacture and
supply to Kenvue certain products and, similarly, Kenvue will manufacture and supply to Johnson & Johnson certain products. The
terms of the TMAs range in initial duration from 3 months to 5 years.
Amounts related to the TSAs and TMAs included in the consolidated statements of earnings were immaterial for the fiscal year
2023. Additionally, the amounts due to and from Kenvue for the above agreements was not material as of December 31, 2023.
The results of the Consumer Health business (previously reported as a separate business segment), as well as the associated
gain, have been reflected as discontinued operations in the Company’s consolidated statements of earnings as Net earnings from
discontinued operations, net of taxes. Prior periods have been recast to reflect this presentation. As a result of the separation of
Kenvue, Johnson & Johnson incurred separation costs of $ 986 million, $ 1,089 million and $ 67 million in the fiscal years 2023,
2022 and 2021, respectively, which are also included in Net earnings from discontinued operations, net of taxes. These costs were
primarily related to external advisory, legal, accounting, contractor and other incremental costs directly related to separation
activities. In the fiscal 2022, as part of the planned separation of the Company’s Consumer Health business, the Company
recognized approximately $ 0.5 billion in net incremental tax costs. As of January 1, 2023, the assets and liabilities associated
with the Consumer Health business were classified as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations in the consolidated balance
sheets.
102Details of Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations, net of taxes are as follows:
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 (1) 2022 2021
Sales to customers $ 10,036 14,953 15,035
Cost of products sold 4,369 6,494 6,452
Gross profit 5,667 8,459 8,583
Selling, marketing and administrative expenses 3,085 4,519 4,542
Research and development expense 258 468 437
Interest Income ( 117 ) — —
Interest expense, net of portion capitalized 199 — —
Other (income) expense, net 1,092 1,060 ( 37 )
(Gain) on separation of Kenvue ( 20,984 ) — —
Restructuring — 46 43
Earnings from Discontinued Operations Before Provision for Taxes on Income 22,134 2,366 3,598
Provision for taxes on income 307 795 521
Net earnings from Discontinued Operations $ 21,827 1,571 3,077
(1) The Company ceased consolidating the results of the Consumer Health business on August 23, 2023, the date of the exchange offer, but
continued to reflect any separation costs incurred as part of discontinued operations through the end of the fiscal fourth quarter.
The following table presents depreciation, amortization and capital expenditures of the discontinued operations related to Kenvue:
(Dollars in Millions) 2023 (1) 2022 2021
Depreciation and Amortization $ 383 641 739
Capital expenditures $ 162 303 314
2023 Annual Report 103Details of assets and liabilities of discontinued operations were as follows:
January 1, 2023
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,238
Accounts receivable trade, less allowances for doubtful accounts 2,121
Inventories 2,215
Prepaid expenses and other receivables 256
Total current assets of discontinued operations 5,830
Property, plant and equipment, net 1,821
Intangible assets, net 9,836
Goodwill 9,184
Deferred taxes on income 176
Other assets 390
Total noncurrent assets of discontinued operations $ 21,407
Liabilities
Loans and notes payable $ 15
Accounts payable 1,814
Accrued liabilities including accrued taxes on income 644
Accrued rebates, returns and promotions 838
Accrued compensation and employee related obligations 279
Total current liabilities of discontinued operations 3,590
Long-term debt 2
Deferred taxes on income 2,383
Employee related obligations 225
Other liabilities 291
Total noncurrent liabilities of discontinued operations $ 2,901
10422. Selected quarterly financial data (unaudited)
Selected unaudited quarterly financial data has been recast for discontinued operations for the years 2023 and 2022 and is
summarized below:
2023 2022
(Dollars in Millions Except Per First Second Third Fourth First Second Third Fourth
Share Data) Quarter (1) Quarter Quarter (2) Quarter (3) Quarter (4) Quarter Quarter Quarter (5)
Segment sales to customers
Innovative Medicine $ 13,413 13,731 13,893 13,722 12,869 13,317 13,214 13,163
MedTech 7,481 7,788 7,458 7,673 6,971 6,898 6,782 6,776
Total sales 20,894 21,519 21,351 21,395 19,840 20,215 19,996 19,939
Gross profit 14,207 15,057 14,745 14,597 13,822 13,893 13,824 13,855
Earnings (Loss) before provision
for taxes on income ( 1,287 ) 6,306 5,217 4,826 5,203 5,144 5,172 3,840
Net earnings (loss) from
continuing operations ( 491 ) 5,376 4,309 4,132 4,571 4,262 4,310 3,227
Net earnings (loss) from
discontinued operations, net of tax 423 ( 232 ) 21,719 ( 83 ) 578 552 148 293
Net earnings (loss) ( 68 ) 5,144 26,028 4,049 5,149 4,814 4,458 3,520
Basic net earnings(loss)
per share:
Basic net earnings (loss) per
share from continuing operations ( 0.19 ) 2.07 1.71 1.71 1.74 1.62 1.64 1.24
Basic net earnings (loss) per
share from discontinued
operations 0.16 ( 0.09 ) 8.61 ( 0.03 ) 0.22 0.21 0.06 0.11
Basic net earnings (loss)
per share ( 0.03 ) 1.98 10.32 1.68 1.96 1.83 1.70 1.35
Diluted net earnings (loss)
per share:
Diluted net earnings (loss) per
share from continuing operations ( 0.19 ) 2.05 1.69 1.70 1.71 1.60 1.62 1.22
Diluted net earnings (loss) per
share from discontinued
operations 0.16 ( 0.09 ) 8.52 ( 0.03 ) 0.22 0.20 0.06 0.11
Diluted net earnings (loss)
per share ( 0.03 ) 1.96 10.21 1.67 1.93 1.80 1.68 1.33
(1) The fiscal first quarter of 2023 includes a $ 6.9 billion charge related to talc matters.
(2) The fiscal third quarter of 2023 includes; a non-cash gain on the exchange offer of $ 21.0 billion that was recorded in Net earnings from
discontinued operations, net of taxes; $ 0.6 billion related to the unfavorable change in the fair value of the retained stake in Kenvue and $ 0.4
billion related to the partial impairment of Idorsia convertible debt and the change in the fair value of the Idorsia equity securities held.
(3) The fourth quarter of 2023 includes favorable changes in the fair value of securities of $ 0.4 billion
(4) In the fiscal first quarter of 2022, the Company recorded an intangible asset impairment charge of approximately $ 0.6 billion related to an
in-process research and development asset, bermekimab (JnJ-77474462).
(5) The fiscal fourth quarter of 2022 includes one-time COVID-19 Vaccine related exit costs of $ 0.8 billion.
2023 Annual Report 105Report of independent registered public accounting firm
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Johnson & Johnson
Opinions on the financial statements and internal control over financial reporting
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of
December 31, 2023 and January 1, 2023, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, of comprehensive income, of
equity and of cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended December 31, 2023, including the related notes
(collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). We also have audited the Company's internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2023, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position
of the Company as of December 31, 2023 and January 1, 2023, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the
three fiscal years in the period ended December 31, 2023 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2023, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the
COSO.
Basis for opinions
The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control
over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on the
Company’s consolidated financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.
We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are
required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable
rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement,
whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of
the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such
procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Our audit of internal control over financial
reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
Definition and limitations of internal control over financial reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.106Critical audit matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial
statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relate to accounts or
disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or
complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial
statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on
the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.
U.S. pharmaceutical rebate reserves – managed care, medicare and medicaid
As described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company recognizes revenue from product sales when
obligations under the terms of a contract with the customer are satisfied. Rebates and discounts provided to customers are
accounted for as variable consideration and recorded as a reduction in sales. The liability for such rebates and discounts is
recognized within Accrued Rebates, Returns, and Promotions on the consolidated balance sheet. A significant portion of the
liability related to rebates is from the sale of pharmaceutical goods within the U.S., primarily the Managed Care, Medicare and
Medicaid programs, which amounted to $11.5 billion as of December 31, 2023. For significant rebate programs, which include the
U.S. Managed Care, Medicare and Medicaid rebate programs, rebates and discounts estimated by management are based on
contractual terms, historical experience, patient outcomes, trend analysis, and projected market conditions in the U.S.
pharmaceutical market.
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to U.S. pharmaceutical rebate reserves -
Managed Care, Medicare and Medicaid is a critical audit matter are the significant judgment by management due to the significant
measurement uncertainty involved in developing these reserves and the high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity and audit
effort in performing procedures and evaluating the assumptions related to contractual terms, historical experience, patient
outcomes, trend analysis, and projected market conditions in the U.S. pharmaceutical market.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall opinion
on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls relating to U.S.
pharmaceutical rebate reserves - Managed Care, Medicare and Medicaid, including controls over the assumptions used to
estimate these rebates. These procedures also included, among others, (i) developing an independent estimate of the rebates by
utilizing third party information on price and market conditions in the U.S. pharmaceutical market, the terms of the specific rebate
programs, and the historical experience and trend analysis of actual rebate claims paid; (ii) testing rebate claims processed by the
Company, including evaluating those claims for consistency with the contractual and mandated terms of the Company’s rebate
arrangements; and (iii) comparing the independent estimates to management’s estimates.
Litigation contingencies – talc
As described in Notes 1 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company records accruals for loss contingencies
associated with legal matters, including talc, when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be
reasonably estimated. To the extent adverse awards, judgments, or verdicts have been rendered against the Company,
management does not record an accrual until a loss is determined to be probable and can be reasonably estimated. For these
matters, management is unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss beyond the amounts accrued. Amounts accrued for
legal contingencies often result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties that rely heavily on
estimates and assumptions including timing of related payments. The ability to make such estimates and judgments can be
affected by various factors, including, among other things, whether damages sought in the proceedings are unsubstantiated or
indeterminate; scientific and legal discovery has not commenced or is not complete; proceedings are in early stages; matters
present legal uncertainties; there are significant facts in dispute; procedural or jurisdictional issues; the uncertainty and
unpredictability of the number of potential claims; ability to achieve comprehensive multi-party settlements; complexity of related
cross-claims and counterclaims; and/or there are numerous parties involved. Management continues to believe that the Company
has strong legal grounds to contest the talc verdicts it has appealed. Notwithstanding management’s confidence in the safety of
the Company’s talc products, in certain circumstances the Company has settled cases. The Company has recognized a total
provision of approximately $9 billion, of which approximately one-third is recorded as a current liability and which encompasses
actual and contemplated settlements. The recorded amount remains the Company's best estimate of probable loss after the
dismissal. The parties have not yet reached a full resolution of all talc matters and the Company is unable to estimate the possible
loss or range of loss beyond the remaining amount accrued.
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the talc litigation is a critical audit matter
are the significant judgment by management when assessing the likelihood of a loss being incurred, when determining whether a
reasonable estimate of the loss or range of loss for the future and existing talc claims can be made, and when determining the
timing of any settlement payments, which in turn led to a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in performing
procedures and evaluating management’s assessment of the loss contingencies associated with this litigation.2023 Annual Report 107Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall opinion
on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls relating to management’s
evaluation of the talc litigation, including controls over determining whether a loss is probable and whether the amount of loss can
be reasonably estimated, as well as financial statement disclosures. These procedures also included, among others, (i) gaining an
understanding of the Company’s process around the accounting and reporting for the talc litigation; (ii) obtaining and evaluating
certain executed settlement agreements related to the talc litigation (iii) discussing the status of significant known actual and
potential litigation and settlements activity with the Company’s in-house legal counsel, as well as external counsel when deemed
necessary; (iv) obtaining and evaluating the letters of audit inquiry with internal and external legal counsel for significant litigation;
(v) evaluating the reasonableness of management’s assessment regarding whether an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible
or probable and reasonably estimable; and (vi) evaluating the sufficiency of the Company’s litigation contingencies disclosures.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Florham Park, New Jersey
February 16, 2024
We have served as the Company’s auditor since at least 1920. We have not been able to determine the specific year we began
serving as auditor of the Company.
108Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting
Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management is required to assess the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and report, based on that assessment, whether the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting is effective.
Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. The
Company’s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the
Company’s financial reporting and the preparation of external financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles.
Internal controls over financial reporting, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, internal control over
financial reporting determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement
preparation and may not prevent or detect all misstatements. Moreover, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
The Company’s management has assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2023. In making this assessment, the Company used the criteria established by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in “Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013).” These criteria are in the
areas of control environment, risk assessment, control activities, information and communication, and monitoring. The Company’s
assessment included extensive documenting, evaluating and testing the design and operating effectiveness of its internal controls
over financial reporting.
Based on the Company’s processes and assessment, as described above, management has concluded that, as of December 31,
2023, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective.
The effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2023 has been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report, which appears herein.
/s/ J. Duato /s/ J. J. Wolk
Joaquin Duato Joseph J. Wolk
Chairman, Board of Directors Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
Chief Executive Officer
2023 Annual Report 109Shareholder return performance graphs
Set forth below are line graphs comparing the cumulative total shareholder return on the Company’s Common Stock for periods of
five years and ten years ending December 31, 2023, against the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index,
the Standard & Poor’s Pharmaceutical Index and the Standard & Poor’s Healthcare Equipment Index. The graphs and tables
assume that $100 was invested on December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2013 in each of the Company’s Common Stock, the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index, the Standard & Poor’s Pharmaceutical Index and the Standard & Poor’s Healthcare
Equipment Index and that all dividends were reinvested.
5 Year Shareholder Return Performance J&J vs. Indices
Johnson & Johnson
S&P 500 Index
S&P Pharmaceutical Index
S&P Healthcare Equipment Index
5-year CAGR
J&J 6.8 %
S&P 500 15.7 %
S&P Pharm 11.1 %
S&P H/C Equip 9.9 %
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Johnson & Johnson $100.00 $116.21 $128.82 $143.57 $152.14 $139.05
S&P 500 Index $100.00 $131.47 $155.65 $200.29 $163.98 $207.04
S&P Pharmaceutical Index $100.00 $115.09 $123.75 $155.62 $168.77 $169.33
S&P Healthcare Equipment Index $100.00 $129.32 $152.12 $181.56 $147.32 $160.6411010 Year Shareholder Return Performance J&J vs. Indices
Johnson & Johnson
S&P 500 Index
S&P Pharmaceutical Index
S&P Healthcare Equipment Index
10-year CAGR
J&J 8.4 %
S&P 500 12.0 %
S&P Pharm 10.1 %
S&P H/C Equip 13.3 %
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Johnson & Johnson $100.00 $117.34 $118.69 $136.88 $170.29 $161.54 $187.73 $208.10 $231.92 $245.76 $224.62
S&P 500 Index $100.00 $113.67 $115.23 $129.00 $157.15 $150.24 $197.53 $233.85 $300.91 $246.37 $311.06
S&P Pharmaceutical Index $100.00 $122.22 $129.29 $127.27 $143.27 $154.86 $178.23 $191.64 $240.99 $261.37 $262.23
S&P Healthcare
Equipment Index $100.00 $126.28 $133.82 $142.50 $186.53 $216.82 $280.39 $329.83 $393.66 $319.42 $348.302023 Annual Report 111Item 9. Changes in and disagreements with accountants on
accounting and financial disclosure
Not applicable.
Item 9A. Controls and procedures
Disclosure controls and procedures. At the end of the period covered by this Report, the Company evaluated the effectiveness of
the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures. The Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are
designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the
Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information
required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and
communicated to the Company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons
performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Joaquin Duato, Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer, and Joseph J. Wolk, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, reviewed and participated in this
evaluation. Based on this evaluation, Messrs. Duato and Wolk concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this Report,
the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
Reports on internal control over financial reporting. The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting, and the attestation regarding internal controls over financial
reporting included in the report of independent registered public accounting firm included in Item 8 of this Report.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting. During the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2023, there were no changes
in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required under Rules 13a-15
and 15d-15 under the Exchange Act that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting. The Company continues to monitor and assess the effectiveness of the design and
operation of its disclosure controls and procedures.
The Company is implementing a multi-year, enterprise-wide initiative to integrate, simplify and standardize processes and systems
for the human resources, information technology, procurement, supply chain and finance functions. These are enhancements to
support the growth of the Company’s financial shared service capabilities and standardize financial systems. This initiative is not in
response to any identified deficiency or weakness in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. In response to this
initiative, the Company has and will continue to align and streamline the design and operation of its financial control environment.
Item 9B. Other information
Securities trading plans of Directors and Executive Officers . During the fiscal fourth quarter of 2023, none of our directors or
officers (as defined in Rule 16a-1(f) of the Exchange Act) informed us of the adoption or termination of a “Rule 10b5-1 trading
arrangement” or “non-Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement,” each as defined in Item 408 of Regulation S-K.
Item 9C. Disclosure regarding foreign jurisdictions that
prevent inspections
Not applicable.
112Part III
Item 10. Directors, executive officers and corporate
governance
The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the discussion of the Audit Committee under the
caption Item 1. Election of Directors - Board committees; and the material under the captions Item 1. Election of Directors and, if
applicable, Delinquent Section 16(a) reporting in the Proxy Statement; and the material under the caption “Executive Officers of the
Registrant” in Part I of this Report.
The Company’s Code of Business Conduct, which covers all employees (including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial
Officer and Controller), meets the requirements of the SEC rules promulgated under Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002. The Code of Business Conduct is available on the Company’s website at www.jnj.com/code-of-business-conduct , and
copies are available to shareholders without charge upon written request to the Secretary at the Company’s principal executive
offices. Any substantive amendment to the Code of Business Conduct or any waiver of the Code granted to the Chief Executive
Officer, the Chief Financial Officer or the Controller will be posted on the Company’s website at www.jnj.com/code-of-business-
conduct within five business days (and retained on the website for at least one year).
In addition, the Company has adopted a Code of Business Conduct & Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and Executive
Officers. The Code of Business Conduct & Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers is available on the
Company’s website at www.investor.jnj.com/governance/corporate-governance-overview/code-of-business-conduct--ethics , and
copies are available to shareholders without charge upon written request to the Secretary at the Company’s principal executive
offices. Any substantive amendment to the Code or any waiver of the Code granted to any member of the Board of Directors or
any executive officer will be posted on the Company’s website at www.investor.jnj.com/governance/corporate-governance-overview
/code-of-business-conduct--ethics within five business days (and retained on the website for at least one year).
Item 11. Executive compensation
The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the material under the captions Item 1. Election of
Directors – Director compensation, and Item 2. Compensation Committee report, Compensation discussion and analysis and
Executive compensation tables in the Proxy Statement.
The material incorporated herein by reference to the material under the caption Compensation Committee report in the Proxy
Statement shall be deemed furnished, and not filed, in this Report and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any
filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as a result of this
furnishing, except to the extent that the Company specifically incorporates it by reference.
Item 12. Security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management and related stockholder matters
The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the material under the caption Item 1. Stock
ownership in the Proxy Statement; and Note 16 Common stock, stock option plans and stock compensation agreements of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.
2023 Annual Report 113Equity compensation plan information
The following table provides certain information as of December 31, 2023 concerning the shares of the Company’s Common Stock
that may be issued under existing equity compensation plans.
Number of
Securities to Weighted Average Number of Securities
be Issued Upon Exercise Price of Remaining Available for
Exercise of Outstanding Future Issuance Under
Outstanding Options Equity Compensation
Plan Category Options and Rights and Rights Plans (2)(3)
Equity Compensation Plans Approved by Security Holders (1) 127,211,785 $123.41 130,112,007
Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved by Security Holders — — —
Total 127,211,785 $123.41 130,112,007
(1) Included in this category are the following equity compensation plans which have been approved by the Company’s shareholders: 2012
Long-Term Incentive Plan and 2022 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
(2) This column excludes shares reflected under the column “Number of Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options and Rights.”
(3) The 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan expired April 26, 2022. All options and restricted shares granted subsequent to that date were under the 2022
Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Item 13. Certain relationships and related transactions, and
director independence
The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the material under the captions Item 1. Election of
Directors - Related person transactions & Director independence in the Proxy Statement.
Item 14. Principal accountant fees and services
The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the material under the caption Item 3. Ratification of
appointment of independent registered public accounting firm in the Proxy Statement.
114Part IV
Item 15. Exhibits and financial statement schedules
The following documents are filed as part of this report:
1. Financial Statements
Consolidated balance sheets at end of fiscal years 2023 and 2022
Consolidated statements of earnings for fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021
Consolidated statements of comprehensive income for Fiscal Years 2023, 2022 and 2021
Consolidated statements of equity for fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021
Consolidated statements of cash flows for fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Report of independent registered public accounting firm
All schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is included in the financial statements
or notes.
2. Exhibits required to be filed by item 60l of regulation S-K
The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Exhibit Index in this Report.
Item 16. Form 10-K summary
Registrants may voluntarily include a summary of information required by Form 10-K under this Item 16. The Company has elected
not to include such summary information.
2023 Annual Report 115Signatures
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 16, 2024
JOHNSON & JOHNSON
(Registrant)
By
/s/ J. Duato
J. Duato , Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
Signature Title Date
/s/ J. Duato Chairman of the Board February 16, 2024
J. Duato Chief Executive Officer
(Principal Executive Officer)
/s/ J. J. Wolk Chief Financial Officer February 16, 2024
J. J. Wolk (Principal Financial Officer)
/s/ R. J. Decker Jr. Controller and Chief Accounting Officer February 16, 2024
R. J. Decker Jr. (Principal Accounting Officer)
/s/ D. Adamczyk Director February 16, 2024
D. Adamczyk
/s/ M. C. Beckerle Director February 16, 2024
M. C. Beckerle
/s/ D. S. Davis Director February 16, 2024
D. S. Davis
/s/ J. A. Doudna Director February 16, 2024
J. A. Doudna
116Signature Title Date
/s/ M. A. Hewson Director February 16, 2024
M. A. Hewson
/s/ P. A. Johnson Director February 16, 2024
P. A. Johnson
/s/ H. Joly Director February 16, 2024
H. Joly
/s/ M. B. McClellan Director February 16, 2024
M. B. McClellan
/s/ A. M. Mulcahy Director February 16, 2024
A. M. Mulcahy
/s/ M. A. Weinberger Director February 16, 2024
M. A. Weinberger
/s/ N. Y. West Director February 16, 2024
N. Y. West
/s/ E. A. Woods Director February 16, 2024
E. A. Woods
2023 Annual Report 117Exhibit index
Reg. S-K
Exhibit Table Description
Item No. of Exhibit
2(i) Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 31, 2022, by and among Johnson & Johnson, Athos Merger
Sub, Inc. and ABIOMED, Inc. – Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of the Registrant’s Form 8-K
Current Report filed November 1, 2022.†
3(i) Restated Certificate of Incorporation effective February 19, 2016 — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
3(i) of the Registrant’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2016.
3(ii) Certificate of Amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation of Johnson & Johnson effective April 30, 2020 —
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Registrant's Form 8-K Current Report filed April 29, 2020.
3(iii) By-Laws of the Company, as amended effective June 9, 2020 — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1
of the Registrant’s Form 8-K Current Report filed June 10, 2020.
4(a) Upon the request of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Registrant will furnish a copy of all
instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Registrant.
4(b) Description of Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 —
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Registrant’s Form 8-K Current Report filed
August 12, 2020.
10(a) 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan — Incorporated herein by reference to Appendix A of the Registrant’s Proxy
Statement filed on March 15, 2012.*
10(b) Form of Stock Option Certificate under the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan — Incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10.2 of the Registrant’s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended April 1, 2012.*
10(c) Form of Restricted Share Unit Certificate under the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan — Incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Registrant’s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended April 1, 2012.*
10(d) Form of Performance Share Unit Certificate under the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan — Incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Registrant’s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended April 1, 2012.*
10(e) Global NonQualified Stock Option Award Agreement under the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan — Incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant’s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended April 1,
2018.*
10(f) Global Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement under the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan — Incorporated herein
by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Registrant’s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended April 1, 2018.*
10(g) Global Performance Share Unit Award Agreement under the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan — Incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Registrant’s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended April 1,
2018.*
10(h) Global Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement granted to John Reed on May 1, 2023 under the 2022
Long-Term Incentive Plan — Filed with this document.*
10(i) Domestic Deferred Compensation (Certificate of Extra Compensation) Plan — Incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 10(g) of the Registrant’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 28, 2003.*
10(j) Amendments to the Certificate of Extra Compensation Plan effective as of January 1, 2009 — Incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10(j) of the Registrant’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December
28, 2008.*
10(k) 2009 Certificates of Long-Term Performance Plan — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
Registrant’s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended September 27, 2009.*
10(l) Amended and Restated Deferred Fee Plan for Directors (Amended as of January 17, 2012) — Incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10(k) of the Registrant's Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended
January 1, 2012.*
118Reg. S-K
Exhibit Table Description
Item No. of Exhibit
10(m) The Johnson & Johnson Executive Income Deferral Plan Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2010 —
Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant’s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter
ended September 30, 2012.*
10(n) The Johnson & Johnson Excess Savings Plan (amended and restated as of January 1, 2022) — Incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10(l) of the Registrant’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended
January 1, 2023.*
10(o) Excess Benefit Plan of Johnson & Johnson and Affiliated Companies (amended and restated as of January 1,
2020) — incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(n) of the Registrant’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal
year ended January 3, 2021.*
10(p)** Executive Life Plan Agreement — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(i) of the Registrant’s Form 10-K
Annual Report for the fiscal year ended January 3, 1993.*
10(q) Executive Life Plan Agreement Closure Letter — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
Registrant’s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended March 29, 2015.*
10(r) 2022 Long-Term Incentive Plan — Incorporated by reference to Appendix A of the Registrant’s Proxy Statement
filed on March 16, 2022.*
10(s) Severance Pay Plan of Johnson & Johnson and U.S. Affiliated Companies, Amended and Restated as of
October 1, 2014 — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant's Form1 0-Q Quarterly
Report for the quarter ended September 28, 2014.*
10(t) First Amendment to the Severance Pay Plan of Johnson & Johnson and U.S. Affiliated Companies (as amended
and restated effective October 1, 2014) — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant's
Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended June 28, 2015.*
10(u) Second Amendment to the Severance Pay Plan of Johnson & Johnson and U.S. Affiliated Companies (as
amended and restated effective October 1, 2014) — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(x) of the
Registrant's Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2016.*
10(v) Contingent Value Rights Agreement, dated as of December 22, 2022, by and between Johnson & Johnson and
American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC – Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
Registrant’s Form 8-K Current Report filed December 22, 2022.†
10(w) Separation Agreement, dated as of May 3, 2023, by and between Johnson & Johnson and Kenvue Inc.
10(x) Tax Matters Agreement, dated as of May 3, 2023, by and between Johnson & Johnson and Kenvue Inc.
10(y) Employee Matters Agreement, dated as of May 3, 2023, by and between Johnson & Johnson and Kenvue Inc.
10(z) Intellectual Property Agreement, dated as of May 3, 2023, by and between Johnson & Johnson and Kenvue Inc.
10(aa) Trademark Phase-Out License Agreement, dated as of April 3, 2023, by and between Johnson & Johnson and
Johnson & Johnson Consumer Inc.
10(ab) Transition Services Agreement, dated as of May 3, 2023, by and between Johnson & Johnson and Kenvue Inc.
10(ac) Transition Manufacturing Agreement, dated as of May 3, 2023, by and between Johnson & Johnson and Kenvue
Inc.
10(ad) Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of May 3, 2023, by and between Johnson & Johnson and Kenvue Inc.
10(ae) Johnson & Johnson Deferred Compensation Plan*
10(af) Global Performance Share Unit Award Agreement*
2023 Annual Report 119Reg. S-K
Exhibit Table Description
Item No. of Exhibit
10(ag) Global Restricted Share Unit Award Agreement*
10(ah) Global Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement*
10(ai) Amendment One to the Johnson & Johnson Excess Savings Plan (amended and restated effective as of January
1, 2022) — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant’s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for
the quarter ended October 1, 2023.*
10(aj) Johnson & Johnson Executive Incentive Plan (Amended as of September 7, 2023) — Incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Registrant’s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended October 1, 2023.*
19 Johnson & Johnson Stock Trading Policy for Directors, Executive Officers and Insiders (Amended as of April 27,
2023) — Filed with this document.
21 Subsidiaries — Filed with this document.
23 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm — Filed with this document.
31.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act — Filed with
this document.
31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act — Filed with
this document.
32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act — Furnished with this
document.
32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act — Furnished with this
document.
97 Johnson & Johnson Clawback Policy (effective as of August 8, 2023) — Filed with this document.
Exhibit 101:
EX-101.INS Instance Document - the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags
are embedded within the Inline XBRL document
EX-101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema
EX-101.CAL Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase
EX-101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase
EX-101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase
EX-101.DEF Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Document
Exhibit 104: Cover Page Interactive Data File––the cover page interactive data file does not appear in the Interactive Data
File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document.
* Management contract or compensatory plan.
** Paper filing.
† Certain exhibits and schedules have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2)(ii) or 601(b)(10)(iv) of Regulation S-K,
as applicable.
A copy of any of the Exhibits listed above will be provided without charge to any shareholder submitting a written request
specifying the desired exhibit(s) to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company. Pursuant to Item 601(b)
(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K, the Company has not filed as exhibits to this Form 10-K certain long-term debt instruments, including
indentures, under which the total amount of securities authorized does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Company and its
subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The Company hereby agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the SEC upon
request.
120Exhibit 10(h)
JOHNSON & JOHNSON
2022 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
GLOBAL RESTRICTED SHARE UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT
Granted To: John Christian Reed
Grant No. Grant Type No. of Units Scheduled Vesting Date
REED050123 Restricted Share Units 25,255 05/01/2024
REED050123 Restricted Share Units 25,255 05/01/2025
REED050123 Restricted Share Units 25,255 05/01/2026
In addition to such other conditions as may be established by the Committee in its sole discretion, in
consideration of the granting of an award under the terms of the Johnson & Johnson 2022 Long-Term
Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time (the “ Plan ”), you agree as follows:
1. Grant of Restricted Share Units.
a. Award . Subject to the terms and conditions of this Global Restricted Share Unit Award
Agreement, including any country-specific terms in Appendix A hereto and any other exhibits or addendums
to these documents (collectively, this “ Agreement ”) and the Plan, Johnson & Johnson, a New Jersey
corporation (the “ Corporation ”), hereby grants you the above-stated number of Restricted Share Units (“
RSUs ”), which will become vested subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. Upon vesting of
each RSU, you will receive one share of Common Stock of the Corporation, par value $1.00 per share (“
Common Stock ”), or cash in lieu thereof, in either case subject to and in accordance with the terms of
Section 4 of this Agreement. Except where the context clearly indicates otherwise, each capitalized term
used herein shall have the definition assigned to it by this Agreement or, to the extent that this Agreement
does not define a capitalized term used herein, by the Plan. The RSUs granted herein are subject to all of the
terms and conditions of the Plan, and the terms of the Plan are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
b. Conditions . This grant of RSUs is conditioned on your (i) electronically accepting this grant
on the website of the Plan recordkeeper (or in such other manner as the Corporation may establish or permit
from time to time) and (ii) opening and maintaining a brokerage account that is permitted for use with
respect to awards granted under the Plan, in each case by the deadline established by the Corporation and/or
set forth on the website of the Plan recordkeeper. By accepting this grant of RSUs, you will have confirmedyour acceptance of allof the terms and conditions of this Agreement. If you do not accept this grant of RSUs by the applicable
deadline, your grant will be cancelled.
2. Vesting of RSUs; Competition with the Corporation Group.
a. General . Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2, the RSUs granted herein shall
become vested on the above-stated Scheduled Vesting Dates in accordance with the schedule set forth above,
provided , that , with respect to each RSU, (i) you are Employed on the applicable Scheduled Vesting Date
and have been Employed at all times since the Grant Date and (ii) you have complied with and are in
compliance with the terms of this Agreement, as determined by the Corporation in its sole discretion.
b. Termination of Employment - General . If, prior to the applicable Scheduled Vesting Date, you
cease to be Employed for any reason, then except as otherwise provided in Section 2(c) (Certain
Terminations; Disability), the RSUs shall be forfeited for no consideration on the Date of Termination.
c. Certain Terminations; Disability
i. . Termination of Employment due to Death . If you die while Employed, then the RSUs
shall immediately become vested in full as of your date of death (to the extent still outstanding and not
already vested), and your estate, beneficiary or any person who acquires the RSUs by inheritance or devise, as
applicable, shall receive a number of shares of Common Stock (or cash in lieu thereof), as provided in Section
4 (Settlement of RSUs; Tax Withholding; Compliance With Securities Laws; Compliance with Compensation
Recoupment Policy).
ii. Disability . If you become Disabled while Employed, you shall immediately become
vested in full in the RSUs (to the extent still outstanding and not already vested) on the date of Disability.
iii. Termination for Cause . Without limiting the generality of Section 2(b), and
notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 2(c), if you cease to be Employed for any reason
(including, without limitation, as a result of your voluntary resignation) in connection with or following the
occurrence of an event that constitutes Cause, then the RSUs and any other awards that you hold under the
Plan shall immediately be forfeited for no consideration as of the Date of Termination. If following your Date
of Termination, the Corporation becomes aware of conduct or activity by you that occurred during or
following your Employment that would have constituted Cause, then any RSUs (or portions thereof) or any
other awards held by you under the Plan that are unvested or unexercised (and any payments or benefits in
respect thereto) as of the date that the Corporation becomes aware of such conduct or activity shall be
forfeited.
iv. Corporation Determinations . In the event of your termination of Employment, the
determination of the reason for such termination and the applicable treatment under this Section 2 shall be
made by the Corporation in its sole discretion.
d. Competition With the Corporation Group . In order to protect the Corporation Group’s
goodwill and investments in research and development and Customer and businessrelationships and to prevent the disclosure of the Corporation Group’s confidential and trade secret
information, thereby promoting the long-term success of the Corporation Group’s business, you agree to the
following:
i. During your Employment, you will not, without the prior written consent of the
Corporation, directly or indirectly engage in Competitive Activities.
ii. For a period of eighteen (18) months following your Date of Termination, you will not,
without the prior written consent of the Corporation, directly or indirectly perform, or assist others to perform,
work for a Competitor in a position or in any geographic location in which you could disadvantage the
Corporation Group or advantage the Competitor through (a) your disclosure or use of the Corporation
Group’s confidential or trade secret information and/or (b) your use of the Corporation Group’s Customer
relationships and goodwill.
iii. Rescission and Forfeiture . You understand and agree that if the Corporation
determines you have violated Section 2(d)(i) and/or Section 2(d)(ii) and/or any non- competition or
non-solicitation agreement that you have with any member of the Corporation Group, then, in addition to
injunctive relief, damages, and all other equitable and legal rights and remedies:
A. the RSUs shall be forfeited for no consideration on the earliest date on which
you are first in violation of Section 2(d)(i) and/or Section 2(d)(ii) or any non-competition or non-solicitation
agreement that you have with any member of the Corporation Group; and
B. upon the Corporation’s demand, you shall immediately deliver to the
Corporation (I) a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of RSUs that vested and were
settled in the form of Common Stock (for the avoidance of doubt, without reduction for any shares of
Common Stock that may have been withheld and/or sold to satisfy applicable withholding taxes) and (II) the
gross amount of cash paid to you (for the avoidance of doubt, without reduction for amounts withheld to
satisfy applicable withholding taxes) for any RSUs that were settled in the form of cash, in each case in
respect of any RSUs that vested within the twelve (12) month period of time immediately preceding the
earliest date on which you are first in violation of Section 2(d)(i) and/or Section 2(d)(ii) or any
non-competition or non- solicitation agreement that you have with any member of the Corporation Group. To
the extent that you do not, as of the date of the Corporation’s demand for repayment, hold a number of shares
of Common Stock sufficient to satisfy your obligation set forth in clause (I) above, you shall pay the
Corporation an amount in cash equal to the result of (x) (i) the number shares required to be delivered by you
to the Corporation pursuant to clause (I) above, less (ii) the number of shares actually delivered by you to the
Corporation pursuant to clause (I), multiplied by (y) the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock as of
the business day immediately preceding the date of the Corporation’s demand for repayment. You agree to
deliver and execute such documents (including, if applicable, share certificates) as the Corporation may deem
necessary to effect the repayment obligations referred to in this Section 2(d)(iii)(B).
iv. You understand and agree that the remedies set forth in Section 2(d)(iii) shall not be
the Corporation Group’s exclusive remedies in the event of a breach of the non-competition obligations set
forth in Section 2(d)(i) and/or Section 2(d)(ii) or in any other applicable non-competition or non-solicitation
agreement that you have with any member of theCorporation Group, and that the Corporation Group reserves all other rights and remedies available to it at
law or in equity.
e. Conditions on Vesting upon or following Termination of Employment . Your eligibility to vest
in any of the RSUs upon or following the date of your termination of Employment shall be subject to (i) your
compliance with the non-competition obligations in Section 2(d)(i) and/or Section 2(d)(ii) and/or any other
applicable non-competition or non-solicitation agreement with any member of the Corporation Group and (ii)
if required by any member of the Corporation Group at the time of your termination of Employment, your
execution of a separation agreement and/or a general release of claims in favor of the Corporation and its
subsidiaries and affiliates containing such provisions and in such form as required by the Corporation Group
that becomes effective prior to the latest date for settlement of the RSUs set forth in Section 4(a) (or such
earlier date as the Corporation Group may require). In the event a separation agreement and/or a release of
claims is required by the Corporation Group and (A) (I) the RSUs vest upon the Date of Termination or (II)
the Vesting Date falls within the period that you have to provide such release of claims, and (B) the period in
which the RSUs must be settled pursuant to Section 4(a) spans two calendar years, then settlement of the
vested RSUs will be made in the second calendar year.
3. Rights to Common Stock. Prior to the delivery of shares of Common Stock to you pursuant to
Section 4(a) (if applicable), you shall not have any rights in, or with respect to, any of the shares of Common
Stock underlying the RSUs, including, but not limited to, any voting rights and the right to receive any
dividends (or dividend equivalents) that may be paid or any distributions that may be made with respect to
such Common Stock.
4. Settlement of RSUs; Tax Withholding; Compliance With Securities Laws; Compliance with
Compensation Recoupment Policy.
a. General . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, within sixty (60) days following the Vesting
Date (but in no event later than the first March 15 th occurring thereafter), you will receive from the
Corporation one share of Common Stock for each RSU that vested on that date, or, at the discretion of the
Committee, the cash equivalent of the Fair Market Value on the Vesting Date, reduced by any whole shares of
Common Stock that are withheld or sold or any cash withheld to satisfy applicable Federal, state and local
income taxes, social insurance, payroll tax, fringe benefits tax, payment on account or other tax-related items
related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable or deemed applicable to you (the “ Tax-Related
Items ”) in the amount determined by the Corporation. In lieu of the foregoing, the Corporation or other
applicable member of the Corporation Group may determine that withholding of Tax-Related Items shall be
satisfied by any other method permitted under the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are a Section
16 officer of the Corporation under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, then the Corporation
will satisfy any applicable tax withholding obligations by withholding in shares of Common Stock upon the
relevant taxable event (with such withholding obligations determined based on the applicable statutory
withholding rates and without regard to Section 83(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended),
unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
b. Registration and Listing . Notwithstanding Section 4(a) hereof, shares of Common Stock shall
not be issued pursuant to this Agreement unless, on the Vesting Date, there is in effect a current registration
statement or amendment thereto under the Securities Act of 1933, asamended, covering the shares of Common Stock to be issued upon vesting of the RSUs, and such shares are
authorized for listing on the New York Stock Exchange or another securities exchange as determined by the
Corporation. Nothing herein shall be deemed to require the Corporation to apply for, to effect, or to obtain
such registration or listing.
c. Compensation Recoupment Policy . You hereby acknowledge and agree that you and the
RSUs, including any cash and/or shares of Common Stock that may be delivered to you pursuant to the
RSUs, are subject to the Corporation’s Compensation Recoupment Policy, as may be amended and/or restated
from time to time, a current copy of which can be found on the Corporation’s website at
http://www.investor.jnj.com/gov/compensation-recoupment-policy.cfm . The terms and conditions of the
Compensation Recoupment Policy hereby are incorporated by reference into this Agreement.
5. Nontransferability of RSUs. The RSUs and any rights granted hereunder may not be sold,
transferred, assigned, pledged, or hypothecated in any way (whether by operation of law or otherwise), other
than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or in accordance with any beneficiary designation
procedures that may be established by the Corporation. Nor shall any such rights be subject to execution,
attachment, or similar process, other than in accordance with the terms of the Plan. Upon any attempt to sell,
transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate, or otherwise dispose of the RSUs or of any rights granted herein
contrary to the provisions of the Plan or this Agreement, or upon the levy of any attachment or similar process
upon the RSUs or such rights, the RSUs and such rights shall, at the election of the Corporation, be forfeited
for no consideration.
6. No Special Employment Rights; No Rights to Awards. Nothing contained in the Plan or this
Agreement shall be construed or deemed by any person under any circumstances to bind any member of the
Corporation Group to continue your employment for the vesting period or for any other period, to create a
right to employment with the Corporation, to form or amend an employment or service contract with the
Corporation or to interfere in any way with any right of a member of the Corporation Group to terminate your
employment at any time. You hereby acknowledge and agree that (i) the Plan is established voluntarily by the
Corporation, is discretionary in nature and may be modified, amended, or terminated by the Corporation at
any time, as provided in the Plan, (ii) your participation in the Plan is voluntary and you are voluntarily
accepting the grant of RSUs, (iii) the RSUs and the shares of Common Stock subject to the RSUs, and the
income and value of same, do not constitute part of your normal or expected compensation or salary for any
purposes, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination indemnities,
redundancy, dismissal, end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits
or welfare benefits or similar payments, and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or in any
way relating to, past services to the Corporation Group, (iv) the RSUs and shares of Common Stock subject to
the RSUs, and the income and value of same, are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation,
(v) the grant of the RSUs is exceptional, voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other
right to receive future grants of RSUs, or benefits in lieu of RSUs, even if RSUs have been granted in the
past, (vi) unless otherwise agreed with the Corporation, the RSUs and the shares of Common Stock subject to
the RSUs, and the income and value of same, are not granted as consideration, or in connection with, the
service you may provide as a director of a subsidiary of the Corporation, (vii) the future value of the
underlying shares of Common Stock is unknown, indeterminable and cannot be predicted with certainty, (viii)
noclaim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture or recoupment of the RSU
resulting from the termination of your Employment or other service relationship (regardless of the reason for
such termination and whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the
jurisdiction where you are employed or the terms of your employment agreement, if any), (ix) you shall seek
all necessary approvals under, make all required notifications under, and comply with all laws, rules, and
regulations applicable to the ownership of the RSUs and, if applicable, shares of Common Stock, including
currency and exchange laws, rules, and regulations, (x) neither the Corporation nor any of its subsidiaries or
affiliates shall be liable for any foreign exchange rate fluctuation between your local currency and the US
dollar that may affect the value of the RSUs or of any amounts due to you pursuant to settlement of the RSUs
or the subsequent sale of any shares of Common Stock acquired upon settlement, (xi) the determination of the
form of any award granted under the Plan is made by the Committee in its sole discretion and (xii) the
Corporation is not providing any tax, legal, or financial advice, nor is the Corporation making any
recommendations regarding your participation in the Plan, or your acquisition or sale of the underlying shares
of Common Stock, you should consult your own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding your
participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the RSUs.
7. Notices. Unless the Corporation notifies you otherwise in writing, all notices, designations, and
payments to be submitted to the Corporation in connection with the RSUs shall be addressed to:
Equity Compensation Resources
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza
New Brunswick, NJ 08933
USA
8. Definitions. The following capitalized terms shall have the definitions set forth below for purposes of
this Agreement:
a. “ Cause ” means (i) your conviction for or a plea of nolo contendere to the commission of a
felony under federal or state law, or (ii) any act by you that, in the Corporation’s opinion, constitutes fraud,
embezzlement, dishonesty, disclosure of confidential information, the willful and deliberate failure to perform
your employment duties in any material respect, a conflict of interest, a violation of the non-competition
obligations set forth in Section 2(d)(i) of this Agreement or any other applicable non-competition,
non-solicitation, or confidentiality agreement or obligation that you have with any member of the Corporation
Group, a violation of any standards of conduct policies or other policies of the Corporation Group to which
you are subject, or any other event that is inimical or contrary to the best interests of the Corporation Group.
Any determination of “Cause” shall be made by the Corporation in its sole discretion, and its determination
shall be final and binding.
b. “ Committee ” means the Compensation & Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of
the Corporation (or any successor committee), or any person or persons to whom the Committee has
delegated authority to administer, construe or interpret the terms of the Plan, pursuant to Section 3(d) of the
Plan.c. “ Competitor ” means any person or entity including, but not limited to, you or anyone acting
on your behalf, that is engaged or preparing to be engaged in research, development, production,
manufacturing, marketing or selling of, or consulting on, any product, process, technology, machine,
invention or service in existence or under development that resembles, competes with, may now or in the
future compete with, can be substituted for or can be marketed as a substitute for any product, process,
technology, machine, invention, or service of the Corporation Group that is in existence or that is, was, or is
planned to be under development. The Corporation shall determine whether any individual or entity is a
“Competitor” in its sole discretion, and its determination shall be final.
d. “ Competitive Activities ” means any and all activities (including preparations) which
compete with, are intended to compete with, or which otherwise may adversely affect or interfere with the
Corporation Group’s business or advantage a Competitor whether immediately or in the future. The
Corporation shall determine whether any conduct constitutes “Competitive Activities” in its sole discretion,
and its determination shall be final.
e. “ Corporation Group ” means the Corporation and its subsidiaries and affiliates, as determined
by the Corporation.
f. “ Customer ” means any entity, client, account, or person, including the employees, agents, or
representatives of the foregoing, or any entity or person who participates, influences or has any responsibility
in making purchasing decisions on behalf of such entities, clients, accounts, or persons, to whom or to which
you contacted, solicited any business from, sold to, rendered any service to, were assigned to, had
responsibilities for, received commissions or any compensation on, or promoted or marketed any products or
services to during the eighteen (18) month period of time preceding your Date of Termination. The
Corporation shall determine whether any individual or entity is a “Customer” in its sole discretion, and its
determination shall be final.
g. “ Date of Termination ” means the date on which your Employment terminates.
h. “ Disability ” or “ Disabled ” means that you have been determined to be
unable to work because of a disability (i) that lasts for a period in excess of twenty-six (26) weeks and (ii) (A)
that entitles you to long-term disability benefits under the long-term disability policy of the Corporation or its
applicable affiliate under which you are covered, or (B) if there is no such policy, that you have been
determined to be “disabled” (or of similar status) by the Corporation (or its applicable affiliate) in accordance
with applicable procedures and policies. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (I) you will not be considered to have
incurred a Disability unless you are identified as “disabled” (or of similar status) in accordance with the
personnel and/or human resources policies of the Corporation or its applicable affiliate, as in effect from time
to time and (II) if the RSUs are subject to Section 409A (as determined by the Corporation), then you will not
be considered to have incurred a Disability unless such condition also constitutes a “disability” within the
meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(4).
i. “ Employed ” or “ Employment ” means any period of time during which you are an
employee of the Corporation Group in good standing, as determined by the Corporation Group in accordance
with its applicable practices, policies and records; provided , that , during such periodyou are (i) in active employment status with the Corporation Group or (ii) on a Corporation Group-approved
leave of absence (as determined by the Corporation Group in its sole discretion). For the avoidance of doubt,
you shall not be considered to be Employed (x) for any period during which you are not considered to be an
employee in good standing pursuant to the Corporation Group’s practices, policies and records, (y) during any
notice period or salary continuation period required by contract, practice or local law (such as a “garden
leave” or similar period) or any severance period (if you are covered by a severance agreement or
arrangement) or (z) for any period of leave that is not approved by the Corporation Group (as determined by
the Corporation Group in its sole discretion).
j. “ Grant Date ” means the date on which the RSUs are granted, as identified on the first page
of this Agreement.
k. “ Vesting Date ” means, with respect to an RSU, the earliest of (to the extent applicable): (i)
the applicable Scheduled Vesting Date; or (ii) the date of death, in the event of a termination of Employment
pursuant to Section 2(c)(i) (Termination Due to Death); or (iii) the date you become Disabled, in the event of
a Disability described in Section 2(c)(ii) (Disability); or (x) the date the RSUs vest and become payable
pursuant to any applicable provision of the Plan (provided, that, if the RSUs are subject to Section 409A (as
determined by the Corporation), payment will occur on the earliest permissible date determined by the
Corporation that would not result in accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A).
9. Miscellaneous.
a. Amendments . Except as provided herein, this Agreement may not be amended or otherwise
modified unless evidenced in writing and signed by an authorized representative of the Corporation.
b. Third-Party Beneficiaries . You acknowledge and agree that all affiliates and subsidiaries of
the Corporation have, or will as the result of a future acquisition, merger, assignment, or otherwise have, an
interest in your Employment and your compliance with the obligations in Section 2(d) (Competition with the
Corporation Group), and that those entities are each express, third-party beneficiaries of this Agreement.
c. Binding Effect . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties
hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
d. Severability . In the event that Section 2(d) (Competition with the Corporation Group) of this
Agreement is invalidated or not enforced under applicable law, this shall not affect the validity or
enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement or the Plan. To the extent that Section 2(d) of
this Agreement is unenforceable because it is deemed overbroad, the provision shall be applied and enforced
in a more limited manner to the fullest extent permissible under the applicable law. You further understand
and agree that, in the event Section 2(d) of this Agreement is declared invalid, void, overbroad, or
unenforceable, in whole or in part, for any reason, you shall remain bound by any non-competition,
confidentiality, non-solicitation, and/or non-disclosure agreement previously entered between you and any
member of the Corporation Group.e. Appendix A . Notwithstanding any provisions in this Agreement, the RSUs shall be subject to
any additional terms and conditions set forth in Appendix A for your country. Moreover, if you relocate to
one of the countries included in Appendix A, the additional terms and conditions for such country will apply
to you, to the extent the Corporation determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary
or advisable for legal or administrative reasons. Appendix A constitutes part of this Agreement.
f. Data Privacy Consent. By accepting this grant, you hereby unconditionally consent to the
collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this
document by and among, as applicable, your employing entity (the “ Employer ”) and the Corporation and
the Corporation Group for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing any
awards issued to you under the Plan. You understand that the Corporation and your Employer may hold
certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address, email
address, telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary,
nationality, job title, details of all RSUs or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled,
vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor (“ Data ”), for the purpose of implementing, administering
and managing any grants issued to you under the Plan. You understand that Data may be transferred to
any third parties, as may be selected by the Corporation, which are assisting in the implementation,
administration and management of the Plan and the fulfillment of this Agreement. You understand that
the recipients of the Data may be located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the recipients’ country
may have different data privacy laws and protections from your country. You understand that if you reside
outside of the United States, you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential
recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the
recipients, which may assist the Corporation (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering
and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form,
for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing grants under the Plan and the fulfillment
of this Agreement. You understand the Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement,
administer and manage grants under the Plan and this Agreement. You understand that if you reside
outside of the United States, you may, at any time, view Data, request information about the storage and
processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein,
in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your human resources representative. Further, you
understand that your consent herein is being provided on a purely voluntary basis. If you do not consent,
or if you later seek to revoke your consent, your Employment status or Service will not be affected; the only
consequence of refusing or withdrawing your consent is that the Corporation may not be able to grant
RSUs or other equity awards to you or administer or maintain such awards. Therefore, you understand
that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more
information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that
you may contact your local human resources representative.
g. Entire Agreement . This Agreement and the Plan constitute the entire agreement between the
parties relating to the subject matter hereof, and any previous agreement or understanding between the parties
with respect thereto is superseded by this Agreement and the Plan.h. Section 409A . The intent of the parties is that payments and benefits under this Agreement
comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations and
guidance issued thereunder (“ Section 409A ”), to the extent subject thereto, and accordingly, to the maximum
extent permitted, this Agreement shall be interpreted and administered to be in compliance therewith.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or this Agreement, the Corporation reserves the right to
revise this Agreement as it deems necessary or advisable, in its sole discretion and without your consent, to
comply with Section 409A or to otherwise avoid imposition of any additional tax or income recognition under
Section 409A prior to the actual payment of cash or shares of Common Stock pursuant to the RSUs.
However, the Corporation makes no representation that the RSUs are not subject to Section 409A nor makes
any undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to the RSUs. The Corporation shall not have any
liability under the Plan or this Agreement for any taxes, penalties or interest due on amounts paid or payable
pursuant to the Plan or this Agreement, including any taxes, penalties or interest imposed under Section
409A. For purposes of the Plan and this Agreement, to the extent necessary to avoid accelerated taxation
and/or tax penalties under Section 409A, a termination of Employment shall not be deemed to have occurred
for purposes of settlement of any portion of the RSUs unless such termination constitutes a “separation from
service” within the meaning of Section 409A and, for purposes of any such provision of this Agreement,
references to a “termination,” “termination of Employment” or similar terms shall mean “separation from
service.” Each amount to be paid under this Agreement shall be construed as a separately identified payment
for purposes of Section 409A. In addition, notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if you are deemed
on the Date of Termination to be a “specified employee” within the meaning of that term under Section 409A
and you are subject to U.S. federal taxation, then, to the extent the settlement of the RSUs following such
termination of Employment is considered the payment of “non-qualified deferred compensation” under
Section 409A payable on account of a “separation from service” that is not exempt from Section 409A, such
settlement shall be delayed until the date that is the earlier of (i) the expiration of the six-month period
measured from the date of such “separation from service” or (ii) the date of your death.
i. Acknowledgement . By electing to accept this Agreement, you acknowledge receipt of this
Agreement and hereby confirm your understanding of the terms set forth in this Agreement. In the event of
any conflict between the terms of the Plan and this Agreement, the terms of the Plan shall control. The
Corporation may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents (including, without limitation,
information required to be delivered to you pursuant to applicable securities laws) related to current or future
participation in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic
delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an online or electronic system established and maintained
by the Corporation or a third party designated by the Corporation.
j. Language . You acknowledge that you are proficient in the English language, or have
consulted with an advisor who is proficient in the English language, so as to enable you to understand the
provisions of this Agreement and the Plan. If you have received this Agreement or any other document
related to the Plan translated into a language other than English, and the meaning of the translated version is
different than the English version, the English version will control.k. Imposition of Other Requirements . The Corporation reserves the right to impose other
requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the RSUs and on any shares of Common Stock acquired
under the Plan, to the extent the Corporation determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with
local law or to facilitate the administration of the Plan, to make any corrections or adjustments that it deems
necessary or appropriate, and to require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be
necessary to accomplish the foregoing.
l. Waiver . You acknowledge that a waiver by the Corporation of breach of any provision of this
Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any other provision of this Agreement, or of any
subsequent breach by you or any other grantee.
m. Governing Law . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the
laws of the State of New Jersey without giving effect to conflict of laws principles, except to the extent
superseded by federal law and as set forth in this Section 9(m). Provided that you primarily resided and
worked in California during and in connection with your employment with the Corporation Group and at the
time that you accepted this Agreement and participation in the Plan, (i) this Agreement shall be governed by
and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California; and (ii) Section 2(d)(ii) shall not apply
with respect to services you render in California that do not involve your use or disclosure of the Corporation
Group’s confidential or trade secret information.
n. Submission to Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial . Any litigation brought against a party to this
Agreement shall be brought in any U.S. federal or state court located in the State of New Jersey and each of
the parties submits to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts for the purpose of any such litigation; provided
, that , a final judgment in any such litigation shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions
by suit on the judgment or in any other matter provided by law. Each party agrees not to assert (A) any
objection which it may have to venue in U.S. federal or state court located in the State of New Jersey, (B) any
claim that litigation has been brought in an inconvenient forum and (C) any claim that such court does not
have jurisdiction with respect to such litigation. Each party waives any right to a trial by jury with respect to
any matters arising under this Agreement or any other awards granted under the Plan.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON
By: /s/ Carolyn Hoenish
Carolyn Hoenisch Senior Finance Director
Savings Plan, Pension, Equity Compensation Operations
Johnson & Johnson
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza
New Brunswick, NJ 08933
USA
APPENDIX ACOUNTRY-SPECIFIC PROVISIONS FOR PARTICIPANTS OUTSIDE
OF THE U.S.
Certain capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix A shall have the meanings set forth in the
Plan and/or the Agreement to which this Appendix A is attached.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This Appendix A includes additional terms and conditions that govern any RSUs granted under the Plan if,
under applicable law, you are a resident of, are deemed to be a resident of or are working in one of the
countries listed below. Furthermore, the additional terms and conditions that govern any RSUs granted
hereunder may apply to you if you transfer Employment and/or residency to one of the countries listed below
and the Corporation shall, in its discretion, determine to what extent the terms and conditions contained
herein shall apply to you.
NOTIFICATIONS
This Appendix A also includes notifications relating to exchange control, securities and other issues of which
you should be aware with respect to your participation in the Plan. The information is based on the exchange
control, securities and other laws in effect in the respective countries as of October 2022. Such laws are often
complex and change frequently. As a result, the Corporation strongly recommends that you not rely on the
notifications herein as the only source of information relating to the consequences of your participation in the
Plan because the information may be outdated when you vest in the RSUs and acquire shares of Common
Stock under the Plan, or when you subsequently sell shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan.
In addition, the notifications are general in nature and may not apply to your particular situation, and the
Corporation is not in a position to assure you of any particular result. Accordingly, you are strongly advised to
seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws in your country may apply to your situation.
Finally, if you are a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which you are currently residing
and/or working or are considered a resident of another country for local law purposes, the information
contained herein may not be applicable to you or you may be subject to the provisions of one or more
jurisdictions.
ALL NON-U.S. JURISDICTIONS
NOTIFICATIONS
Insider Trading Restrictions/Market Abuse Laws . You acknowledge that, depending on your or your broker’s
country of residence or where the shares of Common Stock are listed, you may be subject to insider trading
restrictions and/or market abuse laws which may affect your ability to accept, acquire, sell or otherwise
dispose of shares of Common Stock, rights to shares of Common Stock ( e.g. , RSUs) or rights linked to the
value of shares of Common Stock ( e.g. , phantom awards, futures) during such times you are considered to
have “inside information” regarding the Corporation as defined by the laws or regulations in your country.
Local insider trading laws and regulations may prohibit the cancellation or amendment of orders you placed
before you possessed inside information. Furthermore, you could be prohibited from (i) disclosing the inside
information to any third party and (ii) “tipping” third parties or causingthem otherwise to buy or sell securities. Keep in mind third parties includes fellow Employees. Any
restrictions under these laws or regulations are separate from and in addition to any restrictions that may be
imposed under any applicable insider trading policy of the Corporation. You acknowledge that it is your
responsibility to comply with any restrictions and are advised to speak to your personal advisor on this matter.
Foreign Asset/Account Reporting . Your country of residence may have certain foreign asset and/or account
reporting requirements which may affect your ability to acquire or hold shares of Common Stock under the
Plan or cash received from participating in the Plan (including from sale proceeds arising from the sale of
shares of Common Stock) in a brokerage or bank account outside of your country. You may be required to
report such accounts, assets or transactions to the tax or other authorities in your country. You also may be
required to repatriate sale proceeds or other funds received as a result of your participation in the Plan to your
country through a designated broker or bank and/or within a certain time after receipt. You acknowledge that
it is your responsibility to comply with such regulations and you understand and agree that you should consult
your personal legal advisor for any details.
EUROPEAN UNION / EUROPEAN ECONOMIC AREA COUNTRIES, SWITZERLAND AND THE
UNITED KINGDOM
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Data Privacy . The following provision replaces Section 9(f) (Data Privacy Consent) of the Agreement in
its entirety:
The Corporation, with its principal executive offices at One Johnson & Johnson Plaza, New Brunswick,
New Jersey 08933, USA is the controller responsible for the processing of your personal data by the
Corporation and the third parties noted below.
a. Data Collection and Usage . Pursuant to applicable data protection laws, you are hereby
notified that the Corporation collects, processes and uses certain personal information about you for the
legitimate purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan and generally administering
awards, specifically: your name, home address, email address, date of birth, hire date, rehire date (if
applicable), termination date (if applicable), employee identification number, work country, pay frequency,
associated legal entity and management reporting company, any shares or directorships held in the
Corporation, and details of all Awards, any entitlement to shares of Common Stock awarded, canceled,
exercised, vested, or outstanding in your favor, which the Corporation receives from you or the Employer
(“ Personal Data ”). In granting the RSUs under the Plan, the Corporation will collect, process, use,
disclose and transfer (collectively, “ Processing ”) Personal Data for purposes of implementing,
administering and managing the Plan. The Corporation’s legal basis for the Processing of Personal Data
is the Corporation’s legitimate business interests of managing the Plan, administering awards and
complying with its contractual and statutory obligations, as well as the necessity of the Processing for the
Corporation to perform its contractual obligations under this Agreement and the Plan. Your refusal to
provide Personal Data would make it impossible for the Corporation to perform its contractual obligations
and may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. As such, byaccepting the RSUs, you voluntarily acknowledge the Processing of your Personal Data as described
herein.
b. Stock Plan Administration Service Provider . The Corporation may transfer Personal Data
to Fidelity Stock Plan Services, LLC (“ Fidelity ”), an independent service provider based, in relevant part,
in the United States, which may assist the Corporation with the implementation, administration and
management of the Plan. In the future, the Corporation may select a different service provider and share
Personal Data with another company that serves in a similar manner. The Corporation’s service provider
will open an account for you to receive and trade shares of Common Stock pursuant to the RSUs. The
Processing of Personal Data will take place through both electronic and non-electronic means. Personal
Data will only be accessible by those individuals requiring access to it for purposes of implementing,
administering and operating the Plan. When receiving your Personal Data, if applicable, Fidelity provides
appropriate safeguards in accordance with the EU Standard Contractual Clauses or other appropriate
cross-border transfer solutions. By participating in the Plan, you understand that the service provider will
Process your Personal Data for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your
participation in the Plan.
c. International Data Transfers . The Plan and the RSUs are administered in the United
States, which means it will be necessary for Personal Data to be transferred to, and processed in the United
States. When transferring your Personal Data to the United States, the Corporation provides appropriate
safeguards in accordance with the EU Standard Contractual Clauses or other appropriate cross-border
transfer solutions. You may request a copy of the appropriate safeguards with Fidelity or the Corporation
by contacting your local human resources representative. You may also contact the data protection officer
responsible for your country or region, if applicable, by emailing: emeaprivacy@its.jnj.com .
d. Data Retention . The Corporation will use Personal Data only as long as is necessary to
implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan or as required to comply with legal or
regulatory obligations, including tax and securities laws. This period may extend beyond your point of
Service. When the Corporation no longer needs Personal Data related to the Plan, the Corporation will
remove it from its systems. If the Corporation keeps Personal Data longer, it would be to satisfy legal or
regulatory obligations and the Corporation’s legal basis would be for compliance with relevant laws or
regulations. Data Retention . The Corporation will use Personal Data only as long as is necessary to
implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan or as required to comply with legal or
regulatory obligations, including tax and securities laws. This period may extend beyond your point of
Service. When the Corporation no longer needs Personal Data related to the Plan, the Corporation will
remove it from its systems. If the Corporation keeps Personal Data longer, it would be to satisfy legal or
regulatory obligations and the Corporation’s legal basis would be for compliance with relevant laws or
regulations.
e. Data Subject Rights . To the extent provided by law, you have the right to (i) subject to
certain exceptions, request access or copies of Personal Data the Corporation Processes, (ii) request
rectification of incorrect Personal Data, (iii) request deletion of Personal Data, (iv) place restrictions on
Processing of Personal Data, (v) lodge complaints with competent authorities in your country, and/or (vi)
request a list with the names andaddresses of any potential recipients of Personal Data. To receive clarification regarding your rights or to
exercise your rights, you may contact your local human resources representative. You also have the right to
object, on grounds related to a particular situation, to the Processing of Personal Data, as well as opt-out
of the Plan herein, in any case without cost, by contacting your local human resources representative in
writing. Your provision of Personal Data is a contractual requirement. You understand, however, that the
only consequence of refusing to provide Personal Data is that the Corporation may not be able to
administer the RSUs, or grant other awards or administer or maintain such awards. For more information
on the consequences of the refusal to provide Personal Data, you may contact your local human resources
representative in writing. You may also contact the data protection officer responsible for your country or
region, if applicable, by emailing: emeaprivacy@its.jnj.com . You may also have the right to lodge a
complaint with the relevant data protection supervisory authority.
ARGENTINA
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgement . This provision supplements Section 6 (No Special Employment
Rights; No Rights to Awards) of the Agreement:
In accepting the grant of RSUs, you acknowledge and agree that the grant of RSUs is made by the
Corporation (not your Employer) in its sole discretion and that the value of the RSUs or any shares of
Common Stock acquired under the Plan shall not constitute salary or wages for any purpose under Argentine
labor law, including, but not limited to, the calculation of (i) any labor benefits including, but not limited to,
vacation pay, thirteenth salary, compensation in lieu of notice, annual bonus, disability, and leave of absence
payments, etc., or (ii) any termination or severance indemnities or similar payments.
If, notwithstanding the foregoing, any benefits under the Plan are considered salary or wages for any purpose
under Argentine labor law, you acknowledge and agree that such benefits shall not accrue more frequently
than on the Vesting Date.
NOTIFICATIONS
Securities Law Information . Neither the RSUs nor the underlying shares of Common Stock are publicly
offered or listed on any stock exchange in Argentina.
AUSTRALIA
NOTIFICATIONS
Tax Information . The Plan is a plan to which Subdivision 83A-C of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997
(Cth) (the “ Act ”) applies (subject to the conditions in that Act).
Securities Law Information . This offer to participate in the Plan is being made under Division 1A, Part 7.12
of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) . Please note that if you offer your shares of Common Stock for sale to a
person or entity resident in Australia, your offer may be subject todisclosure requirements under Australian law. You should consult with your own personal legal advisor
regarding your disclosure obligations prior to making any such offer.
BELGIUM
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Shareholding Agreement . Under current Belgian tax law, you understand that you may enter into an
agreement with the Corporation to hold the shares of Common Stock for two (2) years from the date on which
the shares are acquired upon vesting of your RSUs under the Plan to obtain specific tax treatment for the
income received under the Plan. If you are interested in learning more information about the tax treatment of
the Plan income, you should check with your personal tax advisor. You further understand that if you wish to
take advantage of this specific tax treatment, you should review and execute the shareholding agreement in
the form provided by the Corporation.
BRAZIL
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Compliance with Law . By accepting the RSUs, you acknowledge that you agree to comply with applicable
Brazilian laws and report and pay any and all applicable taxes associated with the receipt and vesting of the
RSUs, the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan and the payment of any dividends on such
shares.
Acknowledgement of Nature of Plan and RSUs . This provision supplements Section 6 (No Special
Employment Rights; No Rights to Awards) of the Agreement:
In accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that (i) you are making an investment decision, and (ii) the
value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is not fixed and may increase or decrease in value over the
vesting period without compensation to you.
CANADA
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Form of Settlement - RSUs Payable Only in Common Stock . Notwithstanding any discretion in the Plan or
anything to the contrary in the Agreement, the RSUs do not provide any right for you, as a resident of
Canada, to receive a cash payment and shall be paid in shares of Common Stock only.
Conditions on Vesting upon or following Termination of Employment . This provision replaces subsection (y)
of the definition of “Employed” or “Employment” in Section 8 of the Agreement:
(y) any period that follows the date you receive written notice of termination of employment or any notice
period (such as a “garden leave” or similar period), period of pay in lieu of such notice or salary continuation
period requirement under local law (including, but not limited to statutory law, regulatory law and/or common
law).The following provisions will apply to you if you are a resident of Quebec:
Data Privacy Notice and Consent . This provision supplements Section 9(f) (Data Privacy Consent) of the
Agreement:
If you are a resident of Quebec, you hereby authorize the Corporation and the Corporation’s representative to
discuss with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel (professional or not) involved in the
administration and operation of the Plan. You further authorize the Corporation and your Employer within the
Corporation Group to disclose and discuss your participation in the Plan with their advisors. You also
authorize the Corporation and your Employer to record such information and keep it in your employee file.
Finally, you acknowledge and authorize the Corporation and other parties involved in the administration of
the Plan to use technology for profiling purposes and to make automated decisions that may have an impact
on you or the administration of the Plan.
NOTIFICATIONS
Securities Law Information . You are permitted to sell shares of Common Stock acquired through the Plan
through the designated broker appointed under the Plan, if any, provided that the resale of such shares of
Common Stock takes place outside of Canada through the facilities of a stock exchange on which the shares
are listed. The shares of Common Stock are currently listed on the New York Stock Exchange in the United
States of America.
CHILE
NOTIFICATIONS
Securities Law Information . This offer conforms to general ruling N°336 of the Chilean Commission for the
Financial Market (“ CMF ”). The offer deals with securities not registered in the registry of securities or in the
registry of foreign securities of the CMF, and therefore such securities are not subject to its oversight. The
issuer is not obligated to provide public information in Chile regarding the foreign securities, since such
securities are not registered with the CMF. The securities shall not be subject to public offering as long as
they are not registered with the corresponding registry of securities in Chile, unless they fulfill the
requirements set forth in general ruling N°336 of the CMF.
Esta oferta se acoge a la norma de carácter general N°336 de la Comision para el Mercado Financiero de
Chile. La oferta versa sobre valores no inscritos en el registro de valores o en el registro de valores
extranjeros que lleva la Comision para el Mercado Financiero de Chile, por lo que tales valores no están
sujetos a la fiscalización de ésta. Por tratar de valores no inscritos no existe la obligación por parte del
emisor de entregar en Chile información pública respecto de esos valores. Esos valores no podrán ser objeto
de oferta pública mientras no sean inscritos en el registro de valores correspondiente, a menos que se
cumplan las condiciones establecidas en la norma de carácter general N°336 de la Comision para el
Mercado Financiero de Chile.
CHINAThe following terms apply only to individuals who are subject to exchange control restrictions in the People’s
Republic of China (the “ PRC ”), as determined by the Corporation in its sole discretion:
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Restriction on Vesting . You will not be permitted to vest in any shares of Common Stock unless and until the
necessary approvals for the Plan have been obtained from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“
SAFE ”) and remain in place, as determined by the Corporation in its sole discretion. Further, the Corporation
is under no obligation to issue shares of Common Stock if the Corporation has not or does not obtain SAFE
approval or if any such SAFE approval subsequently becomes invalid or ceases to be in effect by the time you
vest in the RSUs. The Corporation reserves the right to settle RSUs in cash.
Termination of Employment . In the event of your termination of Employment with the Corporation Group,
the Corporation will require the sale of any shares of Common Stock you may then hold, or any other shares
of Common Stock you may then hold which were issued to you pursuant to any award granted to you under
the Plan or any predecessor plan, within six (6) months following your Date of Termination (or such other
period as may be required by SAFE). You understand and agree that the Corporation is authorized to instruct
its designated broker to assist with the mandatory sale of such shares of Common Stock on your behalf
pursuant to this authorization, and you expressly authorize your designated broker to complete the sale of
such shares. You understand and agree that the Corporation’s designated broker is under no obligation to
arrange for the sale of shares at any particular price. You also agree to sign any agreements, forms or consents
that may be reasonably requested by the Corporation (or the Corporation’s designated broker) to effectuate
the sale of the shares of Common Stock (including, without limitation, as to the transfer of the proceeds and
other exchange control matters noted below) and to otherwise cooperate with the Corporation with respect to
such matters, provided , that , you shall not be permitted to exercise any influence over how, when or whether
the sales occur. Upon the sale of the shares of Common Stock, the Corporation agrees to pay you the cash
proceeds from the sale, less any brokerage fees or commissions and subject to any obligation to satisfy
applicable Tax- Related Items.
Designated Broker Account . If shares issued upon the settlement of the RSUs are not immediately sold, you
acknowledge that you are required to maintain the shares of Common Stock in an account with the designated
broker selected by the Corporation until the shares of Common Stock are sold through such Corporation-
designated broker. If the Corporation changes its designated broker, you acknowledge and agree that the
Corporation may transfer any shares of Common Stock issued under the Plan to the new designated brokerage
firm, if necessary for legal or administrative reasons. You agree to sign any documentation necessary to
facilitate the transfer of shares of Common Stock.
Exchange Control Requirements . You understand and agree that, pursuant to local exchange control
requirements, you will be required to immediately repatriate the cash proceeds from the sale of shares of
Common Stock related to the RSUs (or any other award granted under the Plan or any predecessor plan) to
China. You further understand that, under applicable laws, such repatriation of cash proceeds will need to be
effectuated through a special exchange controlaccount established by the Corporation (or any affiliate or subsidiary), and you hereby consent and agree that
any proceeds from the sale of shares of Common Stock will be transferred to such special account prior to
being delivered to you. You understand that the Corporation may face delays in converting the proceeds to
local currency due to exchange control restrictions in China. Proceeds may be paid to you in U.S. dollars or
local currency at the Corporation’s discretion. If the proceeds are paid to you in U.S. dollars, you will be
required to set up a U.S. dollar bank account in China so that the proceeds may be deposited in this account.
If the proceeds are paid to you in local currency, the Corporation is under no obligation to secure any
particular currency conversion rate, and you understand that the Corporation may face delays in converting
the proceeds to local currency due to exchange control restrictions in China. You agree to bear any currency
fluctuation risk between the time the shares are sold and the time the sale proceeds are distributed through any
such special exchange account. You further agree to comply with any other requirements that may be imposed
by the Corporation in the future in order to facilitate compliance with the exchange control requirements in
China.
COLOMBIA
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
The following supplements Section 6 (No Special Employment Rights; No Rights to Awards) of the
Agreement:
Labor Law Policy and Acknowledgement . By accepting your award of RSUs, you acknowledge that pursuant
to Article 128 of the Colombia Labor Code, the Plan and related benefits do not constitute a component of
“salary” for any purposes.
NOTIFICATIONS
Securities Law Information . The shares of Common Stock subject to the RSUs are not and will not be
registered with the Colombian registry of publicly traded securities ( Registro Nacional de Valores y Emisores
) and therefore the shares of Common Stock may not be offered to the public in Colombia. Nothing in this
document should be construed as the making of a public offer of securities in Colombia.
DENMARK
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Danish Stock Option Act . You acknowledge that you have received an Employer Statement translated into
Danish, which is being provided to comply with the Danish Stock Option Act, as amended January 1, 2019.
FRANCE
TERMS AND CONDITIONSQualified Tax Treatment . Your RSUs may have been granted pursuant to an Addendum for Participants in
France for Qualified Share Units and Qualified Performance Share Units (the “ French Sub-Plan for RSUs ”).
The French Sub-Plan for RSUs modifies the terms of the Plan and this Agreement, and in the event of any
conflict between the terms and conditions of the French Sub-Plan for RSUs and the Plan or this Agreement,
the French Sub-Plan for RSUs shall prevail for any grants made thereunder.
The Corporation does not make any undertaking or representation to maintain the qualified status of these
RSUs or of the underlying shares of Common Stock.
Conditions on Vesting and Settlement : If you have been granted RSUs pursuant to the French Sub-Plan for
RSUs, irrespective of the provisions of the Agreement and except in the case of death or Disability (as
defined in the French Sub-Plan for RSUs), no RSUs subject to the Agreement shall vest prior to the date that
is one (1) year after the Grant Date and no shares of Common Stock shall be issued in settlement of any
vested RSUs prior to the date that is two (2) years after the Grant Date.
Minimum Holding Period . If you have been granted RSUs pursuant to the French Sub-Plan for RSUs and
you are issued shares of Common Stock pursuant to the Agreement prior to the two (2) year anniversary of
the Grant Date, then you must hold such shares of Common Stock for a minimum period of two (2) years
from the Grant Date. For the avoidance of doubt, the two-year holding period will not be applicable for any
shares of Common Stock vested on or following the two (2) year anniversary of the Grant Date.
Sale Restriction During Closed Period . You acknowledge that the shares of Common Stock issued and
delivered in settlement of the RSUs may not be sold, transferred, or otherwise disposed of during the periods
set forth in Section 7.5 of the French Sub-Plan for RSUs. You acknowledge and agree that you are personally
responsible for complying with these specific restrictions.
Termination of Employment due to Death: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary provided in the Section
2(c)(i) of this Agreement, if you have been granted RSUs under the French Sub-Plan for RSUs, upon the
Corporation’s receipt within six months following your death of a written request from your heirs in a form
satisfactory to the Corporation, the Corporation shall transfer the shares underlying any unvested RSUs to
your heirs. In this case, shares shall cease immediately to be subject to the above-mentioned Minimum
Holding Period.
Termination of Employment due to Disability: If, prior to the Vesting Date, you become Disabled while
employed under the definition of Section 2.3 of the French Sub-Plan for RSUs, you shall immediately
become vested in the RSUs on the date of the Disability. In this case, shares shall cease immediately to be
subject to the above-mentioned Minimum Holding Period.
Language Consent . By accepting the grant, you confirm having read and understood the Plan and Agreement
which were provided in the English language. You accept the terms of these documents accordingly.En acceptant l’attribution, vous confirmez avoir lu et compris le Plan et le Contrat, qui ont été communiqués
en langue anglaise. Vous acceptez les termes de ces documents en connaissance de cause.
NOTIFICATIONS
Exchange Control Information . You must report to the French Customs and Excise Authorities the value of
any cash or securities that you transfer into or out of France without the use of a financial institution when the
value of such cash or securities equals or exceeds a certain threshold.
Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information . You are required to report all foreign accounts (whether open,
current or closed) to the French tax authorities when filing your annual tax return.
HONG KONG
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Form of Settlement - RSUs Payable Only in Common Stock . Notwithstanding any discretion in the Plan or
anything to the contrary in the Agreement, the RSUs do not provide any right for you to receive a cash
payment. The RSUs shall be paid in shares of Common Stock only.
Sale of Common Stock . Shares of Common Stock received at vesting are accepted as a personal investment.
In the event that Common Stock is issued in respect of the RSUs within six (6) months of the Grant Date, you
agree that you will not offer to the public or otherwise dispose of the shares of Common Stock prior to the six
(6)-month anniversary of the Grant Date.
NOTIFICATIONS
SECURITIES WARNING: The contents of this document have not been reviewed by any regulatory
authority in Hong Kong. You should exercise caution in relation to the offer. If you are in doubt about any of
the contents of the Agreement, including this Appendix A, or the Plan, you should obtain independent
professional advice. The RSUs and any shares of Common Stock issued in respect of the RSUs do not
constitute a public offering of securities under Hong Kong law and are available only to eligible service
providers under the Plan. The Agreement, including this Appendix A, the Plan and other incidental
communication materials have not been prepared in accordance with and are not intended to constitute a
“prospectus” for a public offering of securities under the applicable securities legislation in Hong Kong. The
RSUs and any documentation related thereto are intended solely for the personal use of each member of the
award recipient and may not be distributed to any other person.
INDONESIA
TERMS AND CONDITIONSLanguage Consent and Notification . By accepting the grant of RSUs, you (i) confirm having read and
understood the documents relating to this grant (i.e., the Plan and the Agreement) which were provided in the
English language, (ii) accept the terms of those documents accordingly, and (iii) agree not to challenge the
validity of this document based on Law No. 24 of 2009 on National Flag, Language, Coat of Arms and
National Anthem or the implementing Presidential Regulation (when issued).
Language Consent and Notification . Dengan manikin tombol “Saya menerima” atau dengan
menandatangani dan mengembalikan dokumen ini yang memuat syarat dan ketentuan pemberian anda, (i)
anda mengkonfirmasi bahwa anda telah membaca dan mengerti isi dokumen yang terkait dengan pemberian
ini yang disediakan untuk anda dalam bahasa Inggris, (ii) Anda menerima syarat dari dokumen-dokumen
tersebut, dan (iii) anda setuju bahwa anda tidak akan mengajukan keberatan atas keberlakuan dokumen ini
berdasarkan Undang-Undang No. 24 tahun 2009 tentang Bendera, Bahasa dan Lambang Negara serta Lagu
Kebangsaan atau Peraturan Presiden pelaksana (ketika diterbitkan).
IRELAND
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Acknowledgement of Nature of Plan and RSUs . The following supplements Section 6 (No Special
Employment Rights; No Rights to Awards) of the Agreement:
In accepting this Agreement, you understand and agree that the benefits received under the Plan will not be
taken into account for any redundancy or unfair dismissal claim.
ISRAEL
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This provision supplements Section 4(a) of the Agreement: Tax withholding in Israel will be in accordance
with applicable law including any tax ruling which may be received by the Corporation and/or its Israeli
subsidiaries.
The following provision applies to participants who are in Israel on the Grant Date.
Trustee Arrangement . You hereby agree that the RSUs, to the extent granted to you by the Corporation under
the Israeli Sub-Plan to the Plan, shall be allocated under the provisions of the track referred to as the “Capital
Gains Track,” according to Section 102(b)(2) and 102(b)(3) of the Israeli Income Tax Ordinance and shall be
held by the trustee (the “ Trustee ”) for the periods stated in Section 102 (the “ Holding Period ”). You
acknowledge that if, during the Holding Period, you sell any shares of Common Stock issued in settlement of
the RSUs, tax treatment will differ from the treatment that would apply if the Holding Period is met. You
should consult your personal tax advisor in this regard.
ITALYTERMS AND CONDITIONS
Acknowledgement of Nature of Agreement . In accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that (1) you have
received a copy of the Plan, the Agreement and this Appendix A; (2) you have reviewed the applicable
documents in their entirety and fully understand the contents thereof; and (3) you accept all provisions of the
Plan, the Agreement and this Appendix A.
MEXICO
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Acknowledgement of the Agreement . In accepting the RSUs granted hereunder, you acknowledge that you
have received a copy of the Plan, have reviewed the Plan and the Agreement, including this Appendix A, in
their entirety and fully understand and accept all provisions of the Plan and the Agreement, including this
Appendix A. You further acknowledge that you have read and specifically and expressly approve the terms
and conditions of Section 6 (No Special Employment Rights; No Rights to Awards) of the Agreement which
clearly provide as follows:
1. Your participation in the Plan does not constitute an acquired right;
2. The Plan and your participation in it are offered by the Corporation on a wholly discretionary basis;
3. Your participation in the Plan is voluntary; and
4. The Corporation and its subsidiaries or affiliates are not responsible for any decrease in the value of
any shares of Common Stock acquired at vesting of the RSUs.
Labor Law Acknowledgement and Policy Statement . In accepting any RSUs granted hereunder, you
expressly recognize that the Corporation, with registered offices at One Johnson & Johnson Plaza, New
Brunswick, NJ 08933, USA, is solely responsible for the administration of the Plan and that your participation
in the Plan and acquisition of shares of Common Stock do not constitute an employment relationship between
you and the Corporation since you are participating in the Plan on a wholly commercial basis and your
Employer (“ Johnson & Johnson Mexico ”) is your sole employer. Based on the foregoing, you expressly
recognize that the Plan and the benefits that you may derive from participation in the Plan do not establish
any rights between you and your Employer, Johnson & Johnson Mexico, and do not form part of the
employment conditions and/or benefits provided by Johnson & Johnson Mexico and any modification of the
Plan or its termination shall not constitute a change or impairment of the terms and conditions of your
Employment.
You further understand that your participation in the Plan is as a result of a unilateral and discretionary
decision of the Corporation; therefore, the Corporation reserves the absolute right to amend and/or
discontinue your participation in the Plan at any time without any liability to you.Finally, you hereby declare that you do not reserve to yourself any action or right to bring any claim against
the Corporation for any compensation or damages regarding any provision of the Plan or the benefits derived
under the Plan, and you therefore grant a full and broad release to the Corporation, its affiliates, shareholders,
officers, agents or legal representatives with respect to any claim that may arise.
Spanish Translation
Reconocimiento del Contrato . Al aceptar el otorgamiento de las RSUs, usted reconoce que ha recibido una
copia del Plan, que ha revisado el Plan y el Contrato, incluyendo este Apéndice A, en su totalidad y que
entiende y acepta todas las disposiciones del Plan y del Contracto, incluyendo este Apéndice A. Además,
usted reconoce que ha leído y que específica y expresamente aprueba de los términos y condiciones de la
Sección 6 del Contrato, que claramente dispone lo siguiente:
1. Su participación en el Plan no constituye un derecho adquirido;
2. El Plan y su participación en el Plan se ofrecen por la Corporación en de manera totalmente
discrecional;
3. Su participación en el Plan es voluntaria; y
4. La Corporación y sus subsidiarias o afiliadas no son responsables por ninguna disminución del valor
de las Acciones en el momento de tener derecho a conforme a las RSUs.
Reconocimiento Ley Laboral y Declaración de la Política . Al aceptar el otorgamiento de las RSUs, usted
reconoce expresamente que la Corporación, con oficinas registradas en One Johnson & Johnson Plaza, New
Brunswick, NJ 08933, EE.UU, es únicamente responsable por la administración del Plan. Además, usted
reconoce que su participación en el Plan y cualquier adquisición de Acciones de conformidad con el Plan no
constituyen una relación laboral entre usted y la Corporación, ya que usted está participando en el Plan
sobre una base totalmente comercial y que su Empleador (“ Johnson & Johnson Mexico ”) es su único
patrón. Derivado de lo anterior, usted reconoce expresamente que el Plan y los beneficios que le puedan
derivar al participar en el Plan no establecen ningún derecho entre usted y su patrón, Johnson & Johnson
Mexico, y que no forman parte de las condiciones de trabajo y/o prestaciones otorgadas por Johnson &
Johnson Mexico, y que cualquier modificación del Plan o la terminación del mismo no constituirán un
cambio o deterioro de los términos y condiciones de su Empleo.
Además, usted entiende que su participación en el Plan es resultado de una decisión unilateral y discrecional
de la Corporación, por lo que la Corporación se reserva el derecho absoluto a modificar y/o discontinuar su
participación en el Plan en cualquier momento, sin responsabilidad alguna para con usted.
Finalmente, usted declara por la presente que no se reserva acción o derecho alguno para interponer una
reclamación o demanda en contra de la Corporación por cualquier compensación o daño en relación con
cualquier disposición del Plan o de los beneficios derivados del Plan, y, por lo tanto, otorga un amplio y total
finiquito a la Corporación y susafiliadas, accionistas, funcionarios, agentes y representantes legales con respecto a cualquier reclamación o
demanda que pudiera surgir.
NOTIFICATIONS
Securities Law Information . The RSUs granted, and any shares of Common Stock acquired, under the Plan
have not been registered with the National Register of Securities maintained by the Mexican National
Banking and Securities Commission and cannot be offered or sold publicly in Mexico. In addition, the Plan,
the Agreement and any other document relating to the RSUs may not be publicly distributed in Mexico.
These materials are addressed to you because of your existing relationship with the Corporation and any
subsidiary or affiliate of the Corporation (e.g., Johnson & Johnson Mexico), and these materials should not be
reproduced or copied in any form. The offer contained in these materials does not constitute a public offering
of securities but rather constitutes a private placement of securities addressed specifically to individuals who
are present employees of Johnson & Johnson Mexico made in accordance with the provisions of the Mexican
Securities Market Law, and any rights under such offering shall not be assigned or transferred.
NEW ZEALAND
NOTIFICATIONS
Securities Law Information . Warning: This is an offer of rights to receive shares of Common Stock upon
settlement of the RSUs subject to the terms of the Plan and this Agreement. RSUs give you a stake in the
ownership of the Corporation. You may receive a return if dividends are paid on the shares of Common Stock.
If the Corporation runs into financial difficulties and is wound up, you will be paid only after all creditors
have been paid. You may lose some or all of your investment.
New Zealand law normally requires people who offer financial products to give information to investors
before they invest. This information is designed to help investors to make an informed decision. The usual
rules do not apply to this offer because it is made under an employee share purchase scheme. As a result, you
may not be given all the information usually required. You will also have fewer other legal protections for this
investment.
You should ask questions, read all documents carefully, and seek independent financial advice before
committing to participate in the Plan.
No interest in any RSUs may be transferred (legally or beneficially), assigned, mortgaged, charged or
encumbered.
The shares of Common Stock are quoted on the New York Stock Exchange. This means that if you acquire
shares of Common Stock under the Plan, you may be able to sell them on the New
York Stock Exchange if there are interested buyers. You may get less than you invested. The price will
depend on the demand for the shares of Common Stock.A copy of the Corporation’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and most recent published financial
statements (Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or Form 10-K) and the auditor’s report on those financial
statements, which are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission are available online at
www.sec.gov/, as well as on the Corporation’s “Investor Relations” website at http://www.investor.jnj.com/.
A copy of the above documents will be sent to you free of charge on written request to Equity Compensation
Resources, One Johnson & Johnson Plaza, New Brunswick, NJ 08933, USA.
As noted above, you are advised to carefully read the materials provided before making a decision whether to
participate in the Plan. You are also encouraged to contact your tax advisor for specific information
concerning your personal tax situation with regard to Plan participation.
PHILIPPINES
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Restriction on Vesting . You will not be permitted to vest in any shares of Common Stock unless and until the
necessary securities law approvals for the Plan have been obtained and remain in place, as determined by the
Corporation in its sole discretion. Further, the Corporation is under no obligation to issue shares of Common
Stock if the Corporation has not or does not obtain necessary securities approval or if any such approval
subsequently becomes invalid or ceases to be in effect by the time you vest in the RSUs. The Corporation
reserves the right to settle RSUs in cash.
NOTIFICATIONS
Securities Law Information . You should be aware of the risks of participating in the Plan, which include
(without limitation) the risk of fluctuation in the price of the shares of Common Stock on the New York Stock
Exchange (“ NYSE ”) and the risk of currency fluctuations between the U.S. Dollar and your local currency.
In this regard, you should note that the value of any shares of Common Stock you may acquire under the Plan
may decrease, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between your local currency and the U.S. Dollar
may affect the value of the RSUs or any amounts due to you upon vesting and settlement of the RSUs or upon
sale of any shares of Common Stock you acquire under the Plan. The Corporation is not making any
representations, projections or assurances about the value of the shares of Common Stock now or in the
future.
For further information on risk factors impacting the Corporation’s business that may affect the value of the
shares of Common Stock, you should refer to the risk factors discussion in the Corporation’s Annual Report
on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, which are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and are available online at www.sec.gov/, as well as on the Corporation’s “Investor Relations”
website at http://www.investor.jnj.com/.
You are permitted to sell the shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan through the designated broker
appointed under the Plan (or such other broker to whom you transfer the shares of Common Stock), provided
the resale of shares of Common Stock acquired under thePlan takes place outside of the Philippines through the facilities of a stock exchange on which the shares of
Common Stock are listed (e.g., the NYSE).
PORTUGAL
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Consent to Receive Information in English . You hereby expressly declare that you have full knowledge of the
English language and have read, understood and fully accepted and agreed with the terms and conditions
established in the Plan and Agreement.
Conhecimento da Lingua . Por meio do presente, eu declaro expressamente que tem pleno conhecimento da
língua inglesa e que li, compreendi e livremente aceitei e concordei com os termos e condições estabelecidas
no Plano e no Acordo.
RUSSIA
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Securities Law Requirements . Any RSUs granted hereunder, the Agreement, including this Appendix A, the
Plan and all other materials you may receive regarding your participation in the Plan or any RSUs granted
hereunder do not constitute advertising or an offering of securities in Russia. The issuance of shares of
Common Stock under the Plan has not and will not be registered in Russia; therefore, shares of Common
Stock may not be offered or placed in public circulation in Russia.
In no event will shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan be delivered to you in Russia; all shares of
Common Stock will be maintained on your behalf in the United States.
You are not permitted to sell any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan directly to a Russian legal
entity or resident.
Labor Law Acknowledgement . You acknowledge that if you continue to hold shares of Common Stock
acquired under the Plan after an involuntary termination of your Employment, you will not be eligible to
receive unemployment benefits in Russia.
Data Privacy Notice . You hereby acknowledge that you have read and understood the terms regarding
collection, processing and transfer of Data contained in Section 9(f) (Data Privacy Consent) of the Agreement
and by participating in the Plan, you agree to such terms. In this regard, upon request of the Corporation or
your Employer, you agree to provide an executed data privacy consent form to your Employer or the
Corporation (or any other agreements or consents that may be required by your Employer or the Corporation)
that the Corporation and/or your Employer may deem necessary to obtain under the data privacy laws in your
country, either now or in the future. You understand you will not be able to participate in the Plan if you fail
to execute any such consent or agreement.
NOTIFICATIONSAnti-Corruption Legislation Information . Individuals holding public office in Russia, as well as their spouses
and dependent children, may be prohibited from opening or maintaining a foreign brokerage or bank account
and holding any securities, whether acquired directly or indirectly, in a foreign company (including shares of
Common Stock acquired under the Plan). You should consult with your personal legal advisor to determine
whether this restriction applies to your circumstances.
SINGAPORE
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Restriction on Sale and Transferability . You hereby agree that any shares of Common Stock acquired
pursuant to the RSUs will not be offered for sale in Singapore prior to the six-month anniversary of the Grant
Date, unless such sale or offer is made pursuant to one or more exemptions under Part XIII Division 1
Subdivision (4) (other than section 280) of the Securities and Futures Act (Chap. 289, 2006 Ed.) (“ SFA ”).
NOTIFICATIONS
Securities Law Information . The grant of the RSUs is being made pursuant to the “Qualifying Person”
exemption under section 273(1)(f) of the SFA and is not made with a view to the RSUs being subsequently
offered for sale to any other party. The Plan has not been lodged or registered as a prospectus with the
Monetary Authority of Singapore.
SOUTH AFRICA
NOTIFICATIONS
Securities Law Information . In compliance with South African Securities Law, you acknowledge that you
have been notified that the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q,
which are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and are available online at www.sec.gov/,
as well as on the Corporation’s “Investor Relations” website at http://www.investor.jnj.com/.
SPAIN
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Labor Law Acknowledgement . The following supplements Section 6 (No Special Employment Rights; No
Rights to Awards) of the Agreement:
By accepting the RSUs granted hereunder, you consent to participation in the Plan and acknowledge that you
have received a copy of the Plan.
You understand that the Corporation has unilaterally, gratuitously and in its sole discretion decided to grant
any RSUs under the Plan to individuals who may be employees of the Corporation Group throughout the
world. The decision is a limited decision, which is entered into upon the express assumption and condition
that the RSU granted will not economically orotherwise bind the Corporation or any of its affiliates on an ongoing basis, other than as expressly set forth in
the Agreement, including this Appendix A. Consequently, you understand that the RSUs granted hereunder
are given on the assumption and condition that they shall not become a part of any employment contract
(either with the Corporation or any of its affiliates) and shall not be considered a mandatory benefit, salary for
any purposes (including severance compensation) or any other right whatsoever. Further, you understand and
freely accept that there is no guarantee that any benefit whatsoever shall arise from any gratuitous and
discretionary grant of RSUs since the future value of the RSUs and the underlying shares of Common Stock
is unknown and unpredictable. In addition, you understand that any RSUs granted hereunder would not be
made but for the assumptions and conditions referred to above; thus, you understand, acknowledge and freely
accept that, should any or all of the assumptions be mistaken or should any of the conditions not be met for
any reason, then any grant of RSUs or right to RSUs shall be null and void.
Further, the vesting of the RSUs is expressly conditioned on your active employment status with the
Corporation Group, such that if your Service terminates, the RSUs may cease vesting immediately and be
forfeited, in whole or in part, effective on the date of your termination of Employment (unless otherwise
specifically provided in Section 2(c) (Certain Terminations) of the Agreement). This will be the case, for
example, even if (1) you are considered to be unfairly dismissed without good cause ( i.e. , subject to a
“despido improcedente”); (2) you are dismissed for disciplinary or objective reasons or due to a collective
dismissal; (3) you terminate Service due to a change of work location, duties or any other employment or
contractual condition; or (4) you terminate Service due to a unilateral breach of contract by the Corporation or
an affiliate of the Corporation. Consequently, upon termination of your Employment for any of the above
reasons, you will automatically lose any rights to RSUs that were not vested on the date of your termination
of Employment except as described in Section 2(c) of the Agreement.
You acknowledge that you have read and specifically accept the conditions referred to in Section 2 of the
Agreement.
NOTIFICATIONS
Securities Law Information . No “offer of securities to the public,” as defined under Spanish law, has taken
place or will take place in the Spanish territory. The Agreement (including this Appendix A) has not been nor
will it be registered with the Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores , and does not constitute a public
offering prospectus.
SWEDEN
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Tax Withholding . This provision supplements Section 4(a) of the Agreement:
Without limiting the Corporation’s or the Employer’s authority to satisfy their withholding obligations for
Tax-Related Items as set forth in the Agreement, by accepting the RSUs, you authorize the Corporation to
withhold shares of Common Stock or to sell shares of Common Stock otherwise deliverable to you upon
vesting/settlement to satisfy Tax-Related Items,regardless of whether the Corporation and/or the Employer have an obligation to withhold such Tax-Related
Items.
SWITZERLAND
NOTIFICATIONS
Securities Law Information . Neither this document nor any other materials relating to the RSUs
(i) constitutes a prospectus according to articles 35 et seq. of the Swiss Federal Act on Financial Services (“
FinSA ”) (ii) may be publicly distributed or otherwise made publicly available in Switzerland to any person
other than an employee of the Corporation or (iii) has been or will be filed with, approved or supervised by
any Swiss reviewing body according to article 51 FinSA or any Swiss regulatory authority, including the
Swiss Financial Supervisory Authority, FINMA.
TAIWAN
NOTIFICATIONS
Securities Law Information. The offer of participation in the Plan is available only for Employees. The offer
of participation in the Plan is not a public offer of securities by a Taiwanese company.
TURKEY
NOTIFICATIONS
Securities Law Information . The Plan is made available only to employees of the Corporation and its
affiliates, and the offer of participation in the Plan is a private offering as to employees in Turkey. The RSUs
and the issuance of shares of Common Stock under the Plan takes place outside Turkey. You are not permitted
to sell shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan in Turkey. The shares of Common Stock are
currently traded on the New York Stock Exchange, which is located outside of Turkey, under the ticker
symbol “JNJ” and the shares of Common Stock may be sold through this exchange.
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
NOTIFICATIONS
Securities Law Information . RSUs under the Plan are granted only to select employees of the Corporation
and its affiliates and are for the purpose of providing equity incentives. The Plan and the Agreement are
intended for distribution only to such employees and must not be delivered to, or relied on by, any other
person. You should conduct your own due diligence on the RSUs offered pursuant to this Agreement. If you
do not understand the contents of the Plan and/or the
Agreement, you should consult an authorized financial adviser. The Emirates Securities and Commodities
Authority and the Dubai Financial Services Authority have no responsibility for reviewing or verifying any
documents in connection with the Plan. Neither the Ministry of the Economy and the Dubai Department of
Economic Development have approved the Plan or theAgreement nor taken steps to verify the information set out therein, and have no responsibility for such
documents.
UNITED KINGDOM
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Tax Withholding . This provision supplements Section 4(a) of the Agreement:
Without limitation to Section 4(a) of the Agreement, you agree that you are liable for all Tax- Related Items
and hereby covenant to pay all Tax-Related Items, as and when requested by the Corporation or, if different,
your Employer or by HM Revenue & Customs (“ HMRC ”) (or any other tax authority or any other relevant
authority). You also agree to indemnify and keep indemnified the Corporation and, if different, your
Employer against any Tax-Related Items that they are required to pay or withhold or have paid or will pay to
HMRC on your behalf (or any other tax authority or any other relevant authority). For the purposes of this
Agreement, Tax- Related Items include (without limitation) employment income tax and the employee
portion of the Health and Social Care levy.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are a director or executive officer of the Corporation (within the
meaning of Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act), you understand that you may not be able to indemnify the
Corporation for the amount of any income tax not collected from or paid by you within ninety (90) days of
the end of the U.K. tax year in which the event giving rise to the Tax- Related Items occurs as it may be
considered to be a loan and therefore, it may constitute a benefit to you on which additional income tax and
National Insurance contributions (“ NICs ”) and Health and Social Care levy may be payable. You understand
that you will be responsible for reporting and paying any income tax due on this additional benefit directly to
HMRC under the self- assessment regime and for paying to the Corporation and/or your Employer (as
appropriate) the amount of any employee NICs and Health and Social Care levy due on this additional
benefit, which may also be recovered from you by any of the means referred to in Section 4(a) of the
Agreement.
URUGUAY
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Data Privacy Acknowledgement . This provision supplements Section 9(f) of the Agreement:
You understand that your Data will be collected by your Employer and will be transferred to the Corporation
at One Johnson & Johnson Plaza, New Brunswick, NJ 08933, U.S.A and/or any financial institutions or
brokers involved in the management and administration of the Plan. You further understand that any of these
entities may store your Data for purposes of administering your participation in the Plan.
VENEZUELA
TERMS AND CONDITIONSSettlement of RSUs . Settlement of vested RSUs shall be made in shares of Common Stock, provided,
however, that the Corporation has the discretion to settle the RSUs in cash if it determines that cash
settlement is necessary or advisable in light of changes in regulatory requirements in Venezuela. In the event
that the RSUs are settled in cash, the amount of the cash payment upon vesting and settlement of the RSUs
shall be based on the fair market value (as determined by the Corporation) of the shares of Common Stock
subject to the vested RSUs, less any applicable Tax-Related Items.
Investment Representation . As a condition of the grant of the RSUs, you acknowledge and agree that any
shares of Common Stock you may acquire upon the settlement of the RSUs are acquired as and intended to be
an investment rather than for the resale of the shares of Common Stock and conversion of such shares into
foreign currency.
NOTIFICATIONS
Securities Law Information . The RSUs granted under the Plan and the shares of Common Stock issued under
the Plan are offered as a personal, private, exclusive transaction and are not subject to Venezuelan government
securities regulations.Exhibit 19
JOHNSON & JOHNSON
STOCK TRADING POLICY FOR DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND INSIDERS
Federal and state laws prohibit Insiders (as defined below) from buying or selling securities of Johnson &
Johnson (“J&J”) when they are aware of material non-public information about J&J and from passing along
(or “tipping”) such information to others who then trade. This illegal activity is commonly referred to as insider
trading. Individuals who trade on material non-public information (or tip information to others who trade) can
be liable for civil and criminal penalties, in addition to legal and disciplinary action from J&J, up to and
including dismissal for cause.
This Stock Trading Policy (this “Policy”) for Directors and Executive Officers (and family members living in the
same household) and other Insiders provides guidelines with respect to transactions in the securities of J&J.
J&J has adopted this Policy regarding securities transactions to help prevent insider trading and to protect
our reputation for integrity and ethical conduct.
I. When does this Policy Apply?
General prohibition : The general prohibition on trading or “tipping” when aware of material non-public
information is always applicable.
Blackout Period : Starting on the date two weeks prior to the end of each fiscal quarter, through and until 24
hours after financial results for that fiscal quarter (or the fiscal year) are announced, no Insiders may trade in
J&J securities. This period when trading is not allowed is called a "Blackout Period."
Example: If the fiscal quarter ends on September 30 and financial results are released at 8:00 AM
(EDT) on October 16, then trading is prohibited under this Policy from September 16 through and
until 8:00 AM (EDT) on October 17.
II. Who is Covered by this Policy?
“ Section 16 Insiders ” who are:
a. Members of the Board of Directors;
b. Members of the Executive Committee;
c. Corporate Controller; or
d. Family members living in the same household as any Section 16 Insider (see "Additional Guidance"
section below).
“ Restricted Insiders ” who are:
• Treasurer, Corporate Secretary and any other individual as may be designated from time to time by
the General Counsel;
• Company Group Chairmen;
• Members of Group Operating Committees and Sector Leadership Teams;• All individuals reporting directly to the Chief Financial Officer (excluding non-finance staff members);
• Certain employees in the Corporate Controller's group who are involved in the preparation of
financial statements (to be determined by the Chief Financial Officer);
• Investor Relations professionals; or
• Family members living in the same household as any Restricted Insider (see "Additional Guidance"
section below).
“ Insiders ” who are:
• Section 16 Insiders; or
• Restricted Insiders.
III. What Transactions are Prohibited by this Policy?
• Trading in J&J securities when in possession of material non-public information.
• Trading in J&J securities during a Blackout Period, as described further in Section IV below.
• Gifts of J&J securities when in possession of material non-public information or during a Blackout
Period, except as otherwise permitted under Section VII below.
IV. What Transactions are Prohibited During a Blackout Period?
• Open market purchase or sale of J&J securities.
• Purchase or sale of J&J securities through a broker (unless in accordance with pre-arranged and
pre-approved written plans or irrevocable instructions -- see "Additional Guidance" section below).
• Sale or exchange of J&J securities in connection with the exercise of stock options (including any
sale of shares subject to a stock option as part of a cashless exercise of an option, or any sale or
exchange of shares to generate the consideration needed to fund the exercise of an option or to pay
taxes).
• Elections to make or change existing elections under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan. Switching
existing balances into or out of the J&J Stock Fund in the Company 401(k) Savings Plan.
• Increasing or decreasing future contributions to the J&J Stock Fund in the Company 401(k) Savings
Plan.
• Gifts of J&J securities except as otherwise permitted in Section VII below.
V. What Transactions are Allowed During a Blackout Period?
• Regular and matching contributions to the J&J Stock Fund in the Company 401(k) Savings Plan.
• Regular reinvestment of dividends under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
• Transfers of J&J securities to or from a trust.
• Regular purchase of J&J securities under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan.VI. Pre-Clearance of Stock Transactions for Section 16 Insiders
At all times , even when a Blackout Period is not in effect, before purchasing or selling J&J
securities, or engaging in any other transaction prohibited during a Blackout Period, Section 16
Insiders must pre-clear all transactions in J&J securities (including gifts) in writing by notifying the
General Counsel or Corporate Secretary at least two (2) business days in advance of the proposed
transaction. In addition, (i) the Chief Executive Officer will be notified of any transaction requests by
other Section 16 Insiders and (ii) the Lead Director of the Board of Directors or any Non-Executive
Chairman of the Board of Directors, as applicable, will be notified of any transaction requests by the
Chief Executive Officer and any Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors. The transaction must
be placed within four (4) business days of the receipt of written pre-clearance from the General
Counsel or Corporate Secretary.
VII. Gifts of J&J Securities
Gifts of J&J securities may include gifts to trusts for estate planning purposes, as well as donations to a
charitable organization. Whether a gift of securities is a transaction that should be avoided while the person
making the gift is in possession of material non-public information may depend on the various circumstances
surrounding the gift. Accordingly, you are encouraged to consult the Legal Department when contemplating a
gift, and Section 16 Insiders are required to obtain pre-clearance of the gift.
VIII. Pre-Arranged Rule 10b5-1 Trading Plans
An Insider may trade in J&J securities (including the exercise of stock options and the sale or
exchange of shares underlying such stock options) during a Blackout Period in accordance with
certain pre-arranged written plans or irrevocable instructions (“Trading Plans”) that meet the
requirements set forth in this Section VIII; provided however , a Section 16 Insider who is subject to
the Stock Ownership Guidelines may not use a Trading Plan until their required ownership level has
been met.
• First, the proposed Trading Plan must be entered into in good faith at a time when the Insider is not
in possession of any material non-public information and not during a Blackout Period.
• Second, the proposed Trading Plan must either specify the number of shares to be purchased or
sold on specific dates, or else provide a written formula for that trading.
• Third, the proposed Trading Plan must be pre-approved in writing by the General Counsel or
the Corporate Secretary at least five business days prior to entry into a Trading Plan or
modification thereof.
• Fourth, the proposed Trading Plan must comply with SEC Rule 10b5-1 ( 17 CFR 240.10b5-1),
or any successor rule.
Single Plan: An Insider may not enter into (i) multiple Trading Plans providing for transactions during
overlapping periods or (ii) a Trading Plan providing for the open-market purchase or sale of the total
amount of J&J securities under the plan as a single transaction more than once in a 12-month
period. The foregoing restrictions do notapply to eligible “sell-to-cover” transactions to sell only such shares as are necessary to satisfy tax
withholding obligations arising exclusively from the vesting of certain types of compensatory awards
under SEC Rule 10b5-1(c)(1)(ii)(D)(3).
Waiting Period : The first trade made under any Trading Plan may not take place until 30 days
following entry into such Trading Plan. For Section 16 Insiders, the first trade may not take place until
the later of (i) 90 days following entry into such Trading Plan, or (ii) 2 business days following J&J’s
filing of Form 10-Q or 10-K with the SEC for the completed fiscal quarter in which the plan was
adopted (subject to a maximum of 120 days following entry into such Trading Plan).
Early Termination : A Trading Plan is deemed terminated upon the expiration of its term or the sale of
all of the J&J securities subject to such Trading Plan. A Trading Plan may be terminated by an
Insider before either the expiration of its term or the sale of all of the J&J securities subject to the
Trading Plan (an “early termination”) only after receipt of written approval by the General Counsel or
the Corporate Secretary. Note any new Trading Plan would be subject to the waiting period
described above. Early termination is strongly discouraged, but in certain limited circumstances, the
General Counsel or the Corporate Secretary may consider whether early termination of a plan is
warranted.
Amendments : Amendments or modifications to a Trading Plan may only be made after receipt of written
approval by the General Counsel or Corporate Secretary. In addition, (i) an Insider may not amend a Trading
Plan when in possession of material non-public information or during a Blackout Period and (ii) the
amendment may not be effective until 30 days (or for Section 16 Insiders, the longer waiting period
described above) thereafter. Amendments are strongly discouraged.
Section 16 Insider Representations : A new or modified Trading Plan by a Section 16 Insider must include
a representation certifying that, on the date of adoption of the plan, the individual Section 16 Insider (i) is not
aware of any material non-public information about the security or J&J; and (ii) is adopting such plan in good
faith and not as part of a plan or scheme to evade the prohibitions of SEC Rule 10b-5.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, adoption of a Trading Plan does not preclude trades outside of such Trading
Plan that are otherwise made in accordance with this Policy.
For further information about Trading Plans, please contact the Corporate Secretary’s Office.
IX. Additional Guidance for People Covered by this Policy:
Actual Knowledge of Financial Results does not Matter : This Policy applies regardless of your actual
knowledge of financial results. An Insider may not trade in J&J securities during a Blackout Period even if
that person has no knowledge of the current financial results.
Trading while Knowing Material Non-public Information . SEC rules, as well as the J&J Code of
Business Conduct and the J&J Code of Business Conduct & Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors
and Executive Officers, prohibit buying or selling J&J securities while in possession of material non-public
information about the Company. In no event should anyone covered by this Policy trade in J&J securities at
any time when he or she has knowledge ofmaterial information involving the Company, which has not been disclosed publicly. In the event that an
Insider is unsure as to whether any news, development or other information would be considered material, or
has any other question as to whether he or she should refrain from trading in J&J securities, they should
contact the Corporate Secretary's Office (as stated above, Section 16 Insiders are always required to
pre-clear all trades).
Derivative Instruments : Persons covered by this Policy are prohibited at all times from buying or selling
"put" or "call" options on J&J securities, short sales, hedging transactions and other types of derivative
instruments linked to the performance of J&J securities.
Family Members who Live in Your Household : Family members of people covered by this Policy, who
share the same household, are also covered by this Policy to the same extent as the person covered by this
Policy. In addition, children who go away to college or otherwise leave home, but remain financially
dependent on you, should be considered to be living in your household and subject to this Policy. If
your spouse or children own any J&J securities, it is important to advise them of this Policy. If any
other "family members" live in an Insider’s household, they should also be aware of these
restrictions and should not engage in any transactions involving J&J securities without first
discussing with the Insider.
Other J&J Securities an Insider may Control . This Policy applies to all investment decisions made by
people covered by this Policy. If an Insider has the power to direct the purchase or sale of J&J securities by
virtue of his or her position as a shareholder, director or officer of a corporation or not-for-profit organization,
or as a trustee of a trust or executor of an estate, then for the purposes of this Policy that Insider should not
engage in a transaction in J&J securities on behalf of that corporation, organization, trust or estate that would
not be permitted to be engaged in by them in their personal capacity under this Policy.
Exceptions to Policy. Exceptions to this Policy may be granted only under the most extenuating of
circumstances. Any exception must be approved by the General Counsel and requires that the individual not
be in possession of material non-public information. An urgent or unexpected need for money is not a
defense to charges of trading on material non-public information.
Post-Termination Transaction . Subject to any additional terms, conditions, or restrictions that may be set
forth in an agreement between an Insider and J&J, for a period of time after their status with J&J terminates,
all aspects of this Policy (including mandatory preclearance of any transactions in J&J securities) shall
continue to apply until the later of (i) the end of the first black out period following the public release of
earnings for the fiscal quarter in which the Insider’s status with J&J terminates or (ii) the beginning of the
second market trading day after the earlier of (a) the public disclosure of any material non-public information
known to the Insider or (b) such time as any material non-public information known to the Insider is no longer
material.
X. Whom do I Contact with Questions about this Policy?
Please contact the Office of Corporate Secretary at 732-524-2455 or by email at AskCorpSec@its.jnj.com
with any questions.
As amended by the Board of Directors of Johnson & Johnson
Effective: April 27, 2023EXHIBIT 21
SUBSIDIARIES
Johnson & Johnson, a New Jersey corporation, had the U.S. and international subsidiaries shown below as of
December 31, 2023. Johnson & Johnson is not a subsidiary of any other entity.
Name of Subsidiary Jurisdiction
U.S. Subsidiaries:
ABD Holding Company, Inc. Delaware
ABIOMED COMMERCIAL, LLC Delaware
ABIOMED R&D, Inc. Delaware
ABIOMED, Inc. Delaware
Acclarent, Inc. Delaware
Actelion Pharmaceuticals US, Inc. Delaware
Albany Street LLC New Jersey
ALZA Corporation Delaware
Alza Land Management, Inc. Delaware
AMO Development, LLC Delaware
AMO Manufacturing USA, LLC Delaware
AMO Sales and Service, Inc. Delaware
AMO Spain Holdings, LLC Delaware
Anakuria Therapeutics, Inc. Delaware
AorTx, Inc. Delaware
Aragon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Delaware
Asia Pacific Holdings, LLC New Jersey
Atrionix, Inc. California
AUB Holdings LLC Delaware
Auris Health, Inc. Delaware
Bandol Merger Sub, Inc. Delaware
BeneVir BioPharm, Inc. Delaware
BioMedical Enterprises, Inc. Texas
Biosense Webster, Inc. California
Breethe, Inc. Delaware
Cerenovus, Inc. New Jersey
Charm Merger Sub, Inc. Delaware
Coherex Medical, Inc. Delaware
CoTherix Inc. Delaware
CRES Holdings, Inc. Delaware
CrossRoads Extremity Systems, LLC Tennessee
CSATS, Inc. Washington
DePuy Mitek, LLC Massachusetts
DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. Indiana
DePuy Products, Inc. Indiana
DePuy Spine, LLC Ohio
DePuy Synthes Institute, LLC Delaware
DePuy Synthes Products, Inc. Delaware
DePuy Synthes Sales, Inc. Massachusetts
DePuy Synthes, Inc. Delaware
Dutch Holding LLC Delaware
ECL7, LLC Delaware
Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. Ohio
Ethicon Endo-Surgery, LLC Delaware
Ethicon LLC Delaware
Ethicon US, LLC Texas
Ethicon, Inc. New JerseyName of Subsidiary Jurisdiction
Hansen Medical International, Inc. Delaware
Hansen Medical, Inc. Delaware
I.D. Acquisition Corp. New Jersey
Janssen Biotech, Inc. Pennsylvania
Janssen Global Services, LLC New Jersey
Janssen Oncology, Inc. Delaware
Janssen Ortho LLC Delaware
Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Pennsylvania
Janssen Products, LP New Jersey
Janssen Research & Development, LLC New Jersey
Janssen Scientific Affairs, LLC New Jersey
Janssen Supply Group, LLC Pennsylvania
Janssen-Cilag Manufacturing, LLC Delaware
Jevco Holding, Inc. New Jersey
JJHC, LLC Delaware
JNJ International Investment LLC Delaware
JNTL (Russia) HoldCo LLC Delaware
Johnson & Johnson New Jersey
Johnson & Johnson (Middle East) Inc. New Jersey
Johnson & Johnson (Singapore) HoldCo LLC Delaware
Johnson & Johnson Enterprise Innovation Inc. Delaware
Johnson & Johnson Finance Corporation New Jersey
Johnson & Johnson Gateway, LLC New Jersey
Johnson & Johnson Health Care Systems Inc. New Jersey
Johnson & Johnson Holdco (NA) Inc. New Jersey
Johnson & Johnson Innovation - JJDC, Inc. Delaware
Johnson & Johnson Innovation LLC Delaware
Johnson & Johnson International New Jersey
Johnson & Johnson Medical Devices & Diagnostics Group - Latin America, L.L.C. Florida
Johnson & Johnson S.E., Inc. New Jersey
Johnson & Johnson Services, Inc. New Jersey
Johnson & Johnson Surgical Vision, Inc. Delaware
Johnson & Johnson Urban Renewal Associates New Jersey
Johnson & Johnson Vision Care, Inc. Florida
JOM Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. Delaware
Laminar, Inc. Delaware
LLT Management LLC Texas
Medical Device Business Services, Inc. Indiana
Medical Devices & Diagnostics Global Services, LLC Delaware
MegaDyne Medical Products, Inc. Utah
Mentor Partnership Holding Company I, LLC Delaware
Mentor Texas GP LLC Delaware
Mentor Texas L.P. Delaware
Mentor Worldwide LLC Delaware
Middlesex Assurance Company Limited Vermont
Momenta Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Delaware
Netherlands Holding Company Delaware
NeuWave Medical, Inc. Delaware
NuVera Medical, Inc. Delaware
OMJ Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Delaware
Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. Delaware
Ortho Biologics LLC Delaware
Ortho Biotech Holding LLC Delaware
Patriot Pharmaceuticals, LLC PennsylvaniaName of Subsidiary Jurisdiction
Percivia LLC Delaware
Princeton Laboratories, Inc. Delaware
Prosidyan, Inc. Delaware
Pulsar Vascular, Inc. Delaware
Regency Urban Renewal Associates New Jersey
Royalty A&M LLC North Carolina
Rutan Realty LLC New Jersey
Scios LLC Delaware
Serotiny, Inc. Delaware
SterilMed, Inc. Minnesota
Synthes USA Products, LLC Delaware
Synthes USA, LLC Delaware
Synthes, Inc. Delaware
TalCo LLC Texas
TARIS Biomedical LLC Delaware
TearScience, Inc. Delaware
The Anspach Effort, LLC Florida
Tibotec, LLC Delaware
Torax Medical, Inc. Delaware
Verb Surgical Inc. Delaware
WH4110 Development Company, L.L.C. Georgia
Percivia LLC Delaware
Princeton Laboratories, Inc. Delaware
Prosidyan, Inc. Delaware
Pulsar Vascular, Inc. Delaware
Regency Urban Renewal Associates New Jersey
Royalty A&M LLC North Carolina
Rutan Realty LLC New Jersey
Scios LLC Delaware
Serotiny, Inc. Delaware
SterilMed, Inc. Minnesota
Synthes USA Products, LLC Delaware
Synthes USA, LLC Delaware
Synthes, Inc. Delaware
TalCo LLC Texas
TARIS Biomedical LLC Delaware
TearScience, Inc. Delaware
The Anspach Effort, LLC Florida
Tibotec, LLC Delaware
Torax Medical, Inc. Delaware
Verb Surgical Inc. Delaware
WH4110 Development Company, L.L.C. GeorgiaName of Subsidiary Jurisdiction
International Subsidiaries:
ABIOMED AUSTRALIA PTY LTD Australia
Abiomed Europe GmbH Germany
Abiomed Europe GmbH, Aachen, Zweigniederlassung Zug Switzerland
Abiomed Japan K.K. Japan
ABIOMED SARL France
ABIOMED SINGAPORE PTE. LTD. Singapore
ABIOMED, LTD. United Kingdom
Actelion Pharmaceuticals Ltd Switzerland
Actelion Pharmaceuticals Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. China
Actelion Treasury Unlimited Company Ireland
AIS GmbH Aachen Innovative Solutions Germany
AMO (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. China
AMO (Shanghai) Medical Devices Trading Co., Ltd. China
AMO ASIA LIMITED Hong Kong
AMO Australia Pty Limited Australia
AMO Canada Company Canada
AMO Denmark ApS Denmark
AMO France France
AMO Germany GmbH Germany
AMO Groningen B.V. Netherlands
AMO International Holdings Unlimited Company Ireland
AMO Ireland Cayman Islands
AMO Italy SRL Italy
AMO Japan K.K. Japan
AMO Netherlands BV Netherlands
AMO Norway AS Norway
AMO Puerto Rico Manufacturing, Inc. Cayman Islands
AMO Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore
AMO Switzerland GmbH Switzerland
AMO United Kingdom, Ltd. United Kingdom
AMO Uppsala AB Sweden
Apsis France
Berna Rhein B.V. Netherlands
Biosense Webster (Israel) Ltd. Israel
C Consumer Products Denmark ApS Denmark
ChromaGenics B.V. Netherlands
Cilag AG Switzerland
Cilag GmbH International Switzerland
Cilag Holding AG Switzerland
Cilag Holding Treasury Unlimited Company Ireland
Cilag-Biotech, S.L. Spain
Cordis de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico
Corimmun GmbH Germany
DePuy Hellas SA Greece
DePuy International Limited United Kingdom
DePuy Ireland Unlimited Company Ireland
DePuy Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico
ECP Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH Germany
EES Holdings de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico
EES, S.A. de C.V. Mexico
EIT Emerging Implant Technologies GmbH Germany
Ethicon Endo-Surgery (Europe) GmbH Germany
Ethicon Sarl SwitzerlandName of Subsidiary Jurisdiction
Ethicon Women's Health & Urology Sarl Switzerland
Ethnor (Proprietary) Limited South Africa
Ethnor del Istmo S.A. Panama
Venezuela, Bolivarian
Ethnor Farmaceutica, S.A. Republic of
Finsbury (Development) Limited United Kingdom
Finsbury (Instruments) Limited United Kingdom
Finsbury Medical Limited United Kingdom
Finsbury Orthopaedics International Limited United Kingdom
Finsbury Orthopaedics Limited United Kingdom
FMS Future Medical System SA Switzerland
GATT Technologies B.V. Netherlands
GBSC Division of Janssen Biologics B.V. Netherlands
GH Biotech Holdings Limited Ireland
GMED Healthcare BV Belgium
Guangzhou Bioseal Biotech Co., Ltd. China
Hansen Medical Deutschland GmbH Germany
Hansen Medical UK Limited United Kingdom
Healthcare Services (Shanghai) Ltd. China
Innomedic Gesellschaft für innovative Medizintechnik und Informatik mbH Germany
J & J Company West Africa Limited Nigeria
J&J Argentina S.A. Argentina
J&J Pension Trustees Limited United Kingdom
J&J Productos Medicos & Farmaceuticos del Peru S.A. Peru
J.C. General Services BV Belgium
Janssen (Scientific Office) Egypt
Janssen Biologics B.V. Netherlands
Janssen Cilag Farmaceutica S.A. Argentina
Janssen Cilag S.p.A. Italy
Janssen Cilag SPA Algeria
Venezuela, Bolivarian
Janssen Cilag, C.A. Republic of
Janssen Egypt LLC Egypt
Janssen Farmaceutica Portugal Lda Portugal
Janssen France Treasury Unlimited Company Ireland
Janssen Inc. Canada
Janssen Irish Finance Unlimited Company Ireland
Janssen Japan Treasury Unlimited Company Ireland
Janssen Korea Ltd. Korea, Republic of
Janssen Mexico Treasury Unlimited Company Ireland
Janssen Pharmaceutica (Proprietary) Limited South Africa
Janssen Pharmaceutica NV Belgium
Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K. Japan
Janssen Pharmaceutical Sciences Unlimited Company Ireland
Janssen Pharmaceutical Unlimited Company Ireland
Janssen R&D Ireland Unlimited Company Ireland
Janssen Sciences Ireland Unlimited Company Ireland
Janssen Scientific Office (Syria) Syrian Arab Republic
Janssen Vaccines & Prevention B.V. Netherlands
Janssen Vaccines Corp. Korea, Republic of
Janssen-Cilag France
Janssen-Cilag (New Zealand) Limited New Zealand
Janssen-Cilag A/S Denmark
Janssen-Cilag AG Switzerland
Janssen-Cilag Aktiebolag Sweden
Janssen-Cilag AS NorwayName of Subsidiary Jurisdiction
Janssen-Cilag B.V. Netherlands
Janssen-Cilag d.o.o. Beograd Serbia
Janssen-Cilag de Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico
Janssen-Cilag Farmaceutica Lda. Portugal
Janssen-Cilag Farmaceutica Ltda. Brazil
Janssen-Cilag GmbH Germany
Janssen-Cilag International NV Belgium
Janssen-Cilag Kft. Hungary
Janssen-Cilag Limited Thailand
Janssen-Cilag Limited United Kingdom
Janssen-Cilag NV Belgium
Janssen-Cilag OY Finland
Janssen-Cilag Pharma GmbH Austria
Janssen-Cilag Pharmaceutical S.A.C.I. Greece
Janssen-Cilag Polska, Sp. z o.o. Poland
Janssen-Cilag Pty Ltd Australia
Janssen-Cilag S.A. Colombia
Janssen-Cilag s.r.o. Czech Republic
Janssen-Cilag, S.A. Spain
Janssen-Cilag, S.A. de C.V. Mexico
Janssen-Pharma, S.L. Spain
J-C Health Care Ltd. Israel
JJ Surgical Vision Spain, S.L. Spain
JJ Surgical Vision Spain, S.L. - Sucursal EM Portugal Portugal
JJC Acquisition Company B.V. Netherlands
JJSV Belgium BV Belgium
JJSV Manufacturing Malaysia SDN. BHD. Malaysia
JJSV Norden AB Sweden
JJSV Norden AB, filial i Finland Finland
JJSV Produtos Oticos Ltda. Brazil
JNJ Global Business Services s.r.o. Czech Republic
JNJ Holding EMEA B.V. Netherlands
Johnson & Johnson (Angola), Limitada Angola
Johnson & Johnson (Australia) Pty Ltd Australia
Johnson & Johnson (Canada) Inc. Canada
Johnson & Johnson (China) Investment Ltd. China
Johnson & Johnson (Ecuador) S.A. Ecuador
Johnson & Johnson (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong
Johnson & Johnson (Ireland) Limited Ireland
Johnson & Johnson (Kenya) Limited Kenya
Johnson & Johnson (Mozambique), Limitada Mozambique
Johnson & Johnson (Namibia) (Proprietary) Limited Namibia
Johnson & Johnson (New Zealand) Limited New Zealand
Johnson & Johnson (Philippines), Inc. Philippines
Johnson & Johnson (Private) Limited Zimbabwe
Johnson & Johnson (Trinidad) Limited Trinidad and Tobago
Johnson & Johnson (Vietnam) Co., Ltd Vietnam
Johnson & Johnson AB Sweden
Johnson & Johnson AG Switzerland
Johnson & Johnson Bulgaria EOOD Bulgaria
Johnson & Johnson d.o.o. Slovenia
Johnson & Johnson de Chile S.A. Chile
Johnson & Johnson de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico
Johnson & Johnson de Uruguay S.A. UruguayName of Subsidiary Jurisdiction
Johnson & Johnson do Brasil Industria E Comercio de Produtos Para Saude Ltda. Brazil
Johnson & Johnson Dominicana, S.A.S. Dominican Republic
Johnson & Johnson European Treasury Unlimited Company Ireland
Johnson & Johnson Finance Limited United Kingdom
Johnson & Johnson Financial Services GmbH Germany
Johnson & Johnson for Export and Import LLC Egypt
Johnson & Johnson GT, Sociedad Anónima Guatemala
Johnson & Johnson Healthcare SPC Kuwait
Johnson & Johnson Hemisferica S.A. Puerto Rico
Johnson & Johnson Holding GmbH Germany
Johnson & Johnson Holdings (Austria) GmbH Austria
Johnson & Johnson Innovation Limited United Kingdom
Johnson & Johnson International (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Singapore
Johnson & Johnson International Financial Services Unlimited Company Ireland
Johnson & Johnson Irish Finance Company Limited Ireland
Johnson & Johnson K.K. Japan
Johnson & Johnson Kazakhstan Limited Liability Partnership Kazakhstan
Johnson & Johnson Kft. Hungary
Johnson & Johnson LLC Russian Federation
Johnson & Johnson Management Limited United Kingdom
Johnson & Johnson Medical (China) Ltd. China
Johnson & Johnson Medical (Proprietary) Ltd South Africa
Johnson & Johnson Medical (Shanghai) Ltd. China
Johnson & Johnson Medical (Suzhou) Ltd. China
Johnson & Johnson Medical B.V. Netherlands
Johnson & Johnson Medical GmbH Germany
Johnson & Johnson Medical Greece Single Member S.A. Greece
Johnson & Johnson Medical Korea Ltd. Korea, Republic of
Johnson & Johnson Medical Limited United Kingdom
Johnson & Johnson Medical Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico
Johnson & Johnson Medical NV Belgium
Johnson & Johnson Medical Products GmbH Austria
Johnson & Johnson Medical Pty Ltd Australia
Johnson & Johnson Medical S.A. Argentina
Johnson & Johnson Medical S.p.A. Italy
Johnson & Johnson Medical SAS France
Johnson & Johnson Medical Saudi Arabia Limited Saudi Arabia
Johnson & Johnson Medical Taiwan Ltd. Taiwan (Province of China)
Venezuela, Bolivarian
Johnson & Johnson Medical, S.C.S. Republic of
Johnson & Johnson Medikal Sanayi ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi Turkey
Johnson & Johnson MedTech (Thailand) Ltd. Thailand
Johnson & Johnson Medtech Colombia S.A.S. Colombia
Johnson & Johnson Medtech CR Limitada Costa Rica
Johnson & Johnson MENA RHQ Limited Saudi Arabia
Johnson & Johnson Middle East - Scientific Office United Arab Emirates
Johnson & Johnson Middle East FZ-LLC United Arab Emirates
Johnson & Johnson Morocco Societe Anonyme Morocco
Johnson & Johnson Nordic AB Sweden
Johnson & Johnson Pakistan (Private) Limited Pakistan
Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical Ltd. China
Johnson & Johnson Poland Sp. z o.o. Poland
Johnson & Johnson Private Limited India
Johnson & Johnson Romania S.R.L. Romania
Johnson & Johnson S.E. d.o.o. CroatiaName of Subsidiary Jurisdiction
Johnson & Johnson SDN. BHD. Malaysia
Johnson & Johnson Sociedade Previdenciaria (Non Profit) Brazil
Johnson & Johnson Surgical Vision India Private Limited India
Johnson & Johnson Taiwan Ltd. Taiwan (Province of China)
Johnson & Johnson Trading Limited Saudi Arabia
Johnson & Johnson UK Treasury Company Limited United Kingdom
Johnson & Johnson Ukraine II LLC Ukraine
Johnson & Johnson Vision Care (Australia) Pty Ltd Australia
Johnson & Johnson Vision Care (Shanghai) Ltd. China
Johnson & Johnson Vision Care Ireland Unlimited Company Ireland
Johnson & Johnson Vision Korea, Ltd. Korea, Republic of
Johnson & Johnson, Lda Portugal
Johnson & Johnson, S.A. Spain
Johnson & Johnson, s.r.o. Czech Republic
Johnson & Johnson, s.r.o. Slovakia
Johnson and Johnson Sihhi Malzeme Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi Turkey
La Concha Land Investment Corporation Philippines
McNeil Panama, LLC Panama
Medos International Sarl Switzerland
Medos Sarl Switzerland
Medos Sàrl, succursale de Neuchâtel (Branch) Switzerland
Menlo Care De Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico
Mentor B.V. Netherlands
Mentor Deutschland GmbH Germany
Mentor Medical Systems B.V. Netherlands
Neuravi Limited Ireland
Obtech Medical Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico
OBTECH Medical Sarl Switzerland
OMJ Holding GmbH Switzerland
Omrix Biopharmaceuticals Ltd. Israel
Omrix Biopharmaceuticals NV Belgium
Orthospin Ltd. Israel
Orthotaxy France
preCARDIA France
Proleader S.A. Uruguay
PT Johnson and Johnson Indonesia Two Indonesia
RespiVert Ltd. United Kingdom
Serhum S.A. de C.V. Mexico
Spectrum Vision Limited Liability Partnership Kazakhstan
Surgical Process Institute Deutschland GmbH Germany
Synthes Costa Rica S.C.R., Limitada Costa Rica
SYNTHES GmbH Germany
Synthes GmbH Switzerland
Synthes Holding AG Switzerland
Synthes Holding Limited United Arab Emirates
SYNTHES Medical Immobilien GmbH Germany
Synthes Medical Surgical Equipment & Instruments Trading LLC United Arab Emirates
Synthes Produktions GmbH Switzerland
Synthes S.M.P., S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico
Synthes Tuttlingen GmbH Germany
UAB "Johnson & Johnson" Lithuania
Vision Care Finance Unlimited Company Ireland
Xian Janssen Pharmaceutical Ltd. ChinaName of Subsidiary Jurisdiction
XO1 Limited United KingdomEXHIBIT 23
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-264596, 333-211250,
333-181092, and 333-129542) and Form S-3 (No. 333-269836) of Johnson & Johnson of our report dated February 16, 2024
relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form
10-K.
/s/PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Florham Park, NJ
February 16, 2024Exhibit 31.1
CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT
I, Joaquin Duato, certify that:
1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 (the “report”) of Johnson
& Johnson (the “Company”);
2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in
all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report;
4. The Company’s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Company and have:
(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the Company, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and
(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
Company’s most recent fiscal quarter (the Company’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting; and
5. The Company’s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control
over financial reporting, to the Company’s auditors and the audit committee of the Company’s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions):
(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the Company’s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and
(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
/s/ Joaquin Duato
Joaquin Duato
Chief Executive Officer
Date: February 16, 2024Exhibit 31.2
CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT
I, Joseph J. Wolk certify that:
1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 (the “report”) of Johnson
& Johnson (the “Company”);
2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in
all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report;
4. The Company’s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Company and have:
(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed
under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the Company, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is
made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and
(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
Company’s most recent fiscal quarter (the Company’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting; and
5. The Company’s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control
over financial reporting, to the Company’s auditors and the audit committee of the Company’s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions):
(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the Company’s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and
(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
/s/ Joseph J. Wolk
Joseph J. Wolk
Chief Financial Officer
Date: February 16, 2024Exhibit 32.1
CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT
The undersigned, Joaquin Duato, the Chief Executive Officer of Johnson & Johnson, a New Jersey corporation (the
“Company”), pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, hereby certifies
that, to the best of my knowledge:
(1) the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 (the “Report”) fully complies
with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
(2) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Company.
/s/ Joaquin Duato
Joaquin Duato
Chief Executive Officer
Dated: February 16, 2024
This certification is being furnished to the SEC with this Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not, except to the extent required by such Act, be deemed filed by the Company for
purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.Exhibit 32.2
CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT
The undersigned, Joseph J. Wolk, the Chief Financial Officer of Johnson & Johnson, a New Jersey corporation (the
“Company”), pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, hereby certifies
that, to the best of my knowledge:
(1) the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 (the “Report") fully complies
with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
(2) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Company.
/s/ Joseph J. Wolk
Joseph J. Wolk
Chief Financial Officer
Dated: February 16, 2024
This certification is being furnished to the SEC with this Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not, except to the extent required by such Act, be deemed filed by the Company for
purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.Exhibit 97
JOHNSON & JOHNSON
CLAWBACK POLICY
The Board of Directors (the “ Board ”) of Johnson & Johnson (the “ Company ”) has determined that it is
appropriate for the Company to adopt this Clawback Policy (the “ Policy ”) to be applied to the Executive
Officers of the Company as of the Effective Date.
1. Definitions
For purposes of this Policy, the following definitions shall apply:
a. “ Committee ” means the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board.
b. “ Company Group ” means the Company and each of its Subsidiaries, as applicable.
c. “ Covered Compensation ” means any Incentive-Based Compensation granted, vested or paid to a
person who served as an Executive Officer at any time during the performance period for the
Incentive-Based Compensation and that was received (i) on or after the effective date of NYSE listing
standard Section 303A.14, (ii) after the person became an Executive Officer and (iii) at a time that the
Company had a class of securities listed on a national securities exchange or a national securities
association.
d. “ Effective Date ” means August 8, 2023.
e. “ Erroneously Awarded Compensation ” means the amount of Covered Compensation granted, vested
or paid to a person during the fiscal period when the applicable Financial Reporting Measure relating
to such Covered Compensation was attained that exceeds the amount of Covered Compensation that
otherwise would have been granted, vested or paid to the person had such amount been determined
based on the applicable Restatement, computed without regard to any taxes paid (i.e., on a pre-tax
basis). For Covered Compensation based on stock price or total shareholder return, where the amount
of Erroneously Awarded Compensation is not subject to mathematical recalculation directly from the
information in a Restatement, the Committee will determine the amount of such Covered
Compensation that constitutes Erroneously Awarded Compensation, if any, based on a reasonable
estimate of the effect of the Restatement on the stock price or total shareholder return upon which the
Covered Compensation was granted, vested or paid and the Committee shall maintain documentation
of such determination and provide such documentation to the NYSE.
f. “ Exchange Act ” means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
g. “ Executive Officer ” means each “officer” of the Company as defined under Rule 16a-1(f) under
Section 16 of the Exchange Act, which shall be deemed to include any individuals identified by the
Company as executive officers pursuant to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K under the Exchange Act. Both current and former Executive Officers are subject to the Policy in
accordance with its terms.
h. “ Financial Reporting Measure ” means (i) any measure that is determined and presented in
accordance with the accounting principles used in preparing the Company’s financial statements, and
any measures derived wholly or in part from such measures and may consist of GAAP or non-GAAP
financial measures (as defined under Regulation G of the Exchange Act and Item 10 of Regulation
S-K under the Exchange Act), (ii) stock price or (iii) total shareholder return. Financial Reporting
Measures may or may not be filed with the SEC and may be presented outside the Company’s
financial statements, such as in Managements’ Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and
Result of Operations or in the performance graph required under Item 201(e) of Regulation S-K under
the Exchange Act.
i. “ Home Country ” means the Company’s jurisdiction of incorporation.
j. “ Incentive-Based Compensation ” means any compensation that is granted, earned or vested based
wholly or in part upon the attainment of a Financial Reporting Measure.
k. “ Lookback Period ” means the three completed fiscal years (plus any transition period of less than
nine months that is within or immediately following the three completed fiscal years and that results
from a change in the Company’s fiscal year) immediately preceding the date on which the Company is
required to prepare a Restatement for a given reporting period, with such date being the earlier of: (i)
the date the Board, a committee of the Board, or the officer or officers of the Company authorized to
take such action if Board action is not required, concludes, or reasonably should have concluded, that
the Company is required to prepare a Restatement, or (ii) the date a court, regulator or other legally
authorized body directs the Company to prepare a Restatement. Recovery of any Erroneously
Awarded Compensation under the Policy is not dependent on if or when the Restatement is actually
filed.
l. “ NYSE ” means the New York Stock Exchange.
m. Received . Incentive-Based Compensation is deemed received in the Company’s fiscal period during
which the Financial Reporting Measure specified in or otherwise relating to the Incentive-Based
Compensation award is attained, even if the grant, vesting or payment of the Incentive-Based
Compensation occurs after the end of that period.
n. “ Restatement ” means a required accounting restatement of any Company financial statement due to
the material noncompliance of the Company with any financial reporting requirement under the
securities laws, including (i) to correct an error in previously issued financial statements that is
material to the previously issued financial statements (commonly referred to as a “Big R” restatement)
or (ii) to correct an error in previously issued financial statements that is not material to the previously
issued financial statements but that would result in a material misstatement if the error were corrected
in the current period or left uncorrected in the current period (commonly referred to as a “little r”
restatement), within the meaning of Exchange Act Rule 10D-1 and NYSE listing standard Section
303A.14. Changes to the Company’s financial statements that do not represent error corrections under
the then-current relevant accounting standards will notconstitute Restatements. Recovery of any Erroneously Awarded Compensation under the Policy is not
dependent on fraud or misconduct by any person in connection with the Restatement.
o. “ SEC ” means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
p. “ Subsidiary ” means any domestic or foreign corporation, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint venture, trust or unincorporated organization “affiliated” with the Company, that is,
directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, “controlling”, “controlled by” or “under
common control with”, the Company. “Control” for this purpose means the possession, direct or
indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such person,
whether through the ownership of voting securities, contract or otherwise.
2. Recoupment of Erroneously Awarded Compensation
In the event of a Restatement, any Erroneously Awarded Compensation received during the Lookback
Period prior to the Restatement (a) that is then-outstanding but has not yet been paid shall be automatically
and immediately forfeited and (b) that has been paid to any person shall be subject to reasonably prompt
repayment to the Company Group in accordance with Section 3 of this Policy. The Committee must pursue
(and shall not have the discretion to waive) the forfeiture and/or repayment of such Erroneously Awarded
Compensation in accordance with Section 3 of this Policy, except as provided below.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee (or, if the Committee is not composed entirely of
independent directors, a majority of the independent directors serving on the Board) may determine not to
pursue the forfeiture and/or recovery of Erroneously Awarded Compensation from any person if the
Committee determines that such forfeiture and/or recovery would be impracticable due to any of the
following circumstances: (i) the direct expense paid to a third party (for example, reasonable legal expenses
and consulting fees) to assist in enforcing the Policy would exceed the amount to be recovered (following
reasonable attempts by the Company Group to recover such Erroneously Awarded Compensation, the
documentation of such attempts, and the provision of such documentation to the NYSE), (ii) pursuing such
recovery would violate the Company’s Home Country laws adopted prior to November 28, 2022 (provided
that the Company obtains an opinion of Home Country counsel acceptable to the NYSE that recovery would
result in such a violation and provides such opinion to the NYSE), or (iii) recovery would likely cause any
otherwise tax-qualified retirement plan, under which benefits are broadly available to employees of Company
Group, to fail to meet the requirements of 26 U.S.C. 401(a)(13) or 26 U.S.C. 411(a) and regulations
thereunder.
3. Means of Repayment
In the event that the Committee determines that any person shall repay any Erroneously Awarded
Compensation, the Committee shall provide written notice to such person by email or certified mail to the
physical address on file with the Company Group for such person, and the person shall satisfy such
repayment in a manner and on such terms as required by the Committee, and the Company Group shall be
entitled to set off the repayment amount against any amount owed to the person by the Company Group, to
require the forfeiture of any award granted by the Company Group to the person, or to take any and all
necessary actions to reasonably promptlyrecoup the repayment amount from the person, in each case, to the fullest extent permitted under applicable
law, including without limitation, Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations and
guidance thereunder. If the Committee does not specify a repayment timing in the written notice described
above, the applicable person shall be required to repay the Erroneously Awarded Compensation to the
Company Group by wire, cash or cashier’s check no later than thirty (30) days after receipt of such notice.
4. No Indemnification
No person shall be indemnified, insured or reimbursed by the Company Group in respect of any loss of
compensation by such person in accordance with this Policy, nor shall any person receive any advancement of
expenses for disputes related to any loss of compensation by such person in accordance with this Policy, and
no person shall be paid or reimbursed by the Company Group for any premiums paid by such person for any
third-party insurance policy covering potential recovery obligations under this Policy. For this purpose,
“indemnification” includes any modification to current compensation arrangements or other means that would
amount to de facto indemnification (for example, providing the person a new cash award which would be
cancelled to effect the recovery of any Erroneously Awarded Compensation). In no event shall the Company
Group be required to award any person an additional payment if any Restatement would result in a higher
incentive compensation payment.
5. Miscellaneous
This Policy generally will be administered and interpreted by the Committee. Any determination by the
Committee with respect to this Policy shall be final, conclusive and binding on all interested parties. The
determinations of the Committee under this Policy need not be uniform with respect to all persons, and may
be made selectively amongst persons, whether or not such persons are similarly situated.
This Policy is intended to satisfy the requirements of Section 954 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
and Consumer Protection Act, as it may be amended from time to time, and any related rules or regulations
promulgated by the SEC or the NYSE, including any additional or new requirements that become effective
after the Effective Date which upon effectiveness shall be deemed to automatically amend this Policy to the
extent necessary to comply with such additional or new requirements.
The provisions in this Policy are intended to be applied to the fullest extent of the law. To the extent that
any provision of this Policy is found to be unenforceable or invalid under any applicable law, such provision
will be applied to the maximum extent permitted and shall automatically be deemed amended in a manner
consistent with its objectives to the extent necessary to conform to applicable law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this Policy shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other
provision of this Policy. Recoupment of Erroneously Awarded Compensation under this Policy is not
dependent upon the Company Group satisfying any conditions in this Policy, including any requirements to
provide applicable documentation to the NYSE.
The rights of the Company Group under this Policy to seek forfeiture or reimbursement are in addition to,
and not in lieu of, any rights of recoupment, or remedies or rights other than recoupment, that may be
available to the Company Group pursuant to the terms of any law,government regulation or stock exchange listing requirement or any other policy, code of conduct, employee
handbook, employment agreement, equity award agreement, or other plan or agreement of the Company
Group.
6. Amendment and Termination
To the extent permitted by, and in a manner consistent with applicable law, including SEC and NYSE
rules, the Committee may terminate, suspend or amend this Policy at any time in its discretion.
7. Successors
This Policy shall be binding and enforceable against all persons and their respective beneficiaries, heirs,
executors, administrators or other legal representatives with respect to any Covered Compensation granted,
vested or paid to or administered by such persons or entities.