UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 10-K
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 29, 2013 Commission file number 1-3215
JOHNSON & JOHNSON
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
New Jersey 22-1024240
(State of incorporation) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza
New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (732) 524-0400
SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT
Title of each class Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock, Par Value $1.00 New York Stock Exchange
ALZA Corp Zero Coupon LYON Due July 2014 New York Stock Exchange
4.75% Notes Due November 2019 New York Stock Exchange
5.50% Notes Due November 2024 New York Stock Exchange
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes þ No o
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Yes o No þ
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes þ No o
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and
post such files). Yes þ No o
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. o
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the
definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer þ Accelerated filer o Non-accelerated filer o Smaller reporting company o
(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes o No þ
The aggregate market value of the Common Stock held by non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the Common Stock was last sold as of the last
business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter was approximately $242 billion.
On February 18, 2014, there were 2,828,901,694 shares of Common Stock outstanding.
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Parts I, II and III: Portions of registrant’s annual report to shareholders for fiscal year 2013 (the “Annual Report”).
Parts I and III: Portions of registrant’s proxy statement for its 2014 annual meeting of shareholders filed within 120 days after the close of the registrant’s
fiscal year (the “Proxy Statement”).Item Page
PART I
1 Business 1
General 1
Segments of Business 1
Geographic Areas 2
Raw Materials 2
Patents and Trademarks 2
Seasonality 3
Competition 3
Research and Development 3
Environment 3
Regulation 3
Available Information 4
1A. Risk Factors 4
1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 4
2 Properties 4
3 Legal Proceedings 5
4 Mine Safety Disclosures 5
Executive Officers of the Registrant 5
PART II
5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 6
6 Selected Financial Data 7
7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 7
7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 7
8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 7
9 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 7
9A. Controls and Procedures 7
9B. Other Information 8
PART III
10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 8
11 Executive Compensation 8
12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 8
13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 9
14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 9
PART IV
15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 10
Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 11
Signatures 12
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statement Schedule 14
Exhibit Index 15Table of Contents
PART I
Item 1. BUSINESS
General
Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries (the "Company") have approximately 128,100 employees worldwide engaged in the research and development, manufacture and
sale of a broad range of products in the health care field. Johnson & Johnson is a holding company, which has more than 275 operating companies conducting business
in virtually all countries of the world. The Company’s primary focus has been on products related to human health and well-being. Johnson & Johnson was incorporated
in the State of New Jersey in 1887.
The Company’s structure is based on the principle of decentralized management. The Executive Committee of Johnson & Johnson is the principal management
group responsible for the strategic operations and allocation of the resources of the Company. This Committee oversees and coordinates the activities of the Consumer,
Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics business segments. Within the strategic parameters provided by the Committee, senior management groups at U.S.
and international operating companies are each responsible for their own strategic plans, as well as the day-to-day operations of those companies, and each subsidiary
within the business segments is, with some exceptions, managed by citizens of the country where it is located.
Segments of Business
The Company is organized into three business segments: Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics. Additional information required by
this item is incorporated herein by reference to the narrative and tabular descriptions of segments and operating results under the caption “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” and Note 18 “Segments of Business and Geographic Areas” under “Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements” of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on Form 10-K.
Consumer
The Consumer segment includes a broad range of products used in the baby care, skin care, oral care, wound care and women’s health fields, as well as
nutritionals, over-the-counter pharmaceutical products and wellness and prevention platforms. The Baby Care franchise includes the JOHNSON’S® Baby line of
products. Major brands in the Skin Care franchise include the AVEENO®; CLEAN & CLEAR®; DABAO™; JOHNSON’S® Adult; LUBRIDERM®; NEUTROGENA®;
RoC®; and VENDÔME® product lines. Brands in the Oral Care franchise include the LISTERINE® oral care lines. The Wound Care franchise includes BAND-AID®
Brand Adhesive Bandages and NEOSPORIN® First Aid products. Major brands in the Women’s Health franchise outside of North America are STAYFREE® and
CAREFREE® sanitary pad and o.b.® tampon brands. The principal nutritional line is SPLENDA® No Calorie Sweetener. Over-the-counter medicines include the broad
family of TYLENOL® acetaminophen products; SUDAFED® cold, flu and allergy products; ZYRTEC® allergy products; MOTRIN® IB ibuprofen products; and
PEPCID® line of heartburn products. These products are marketed to the general public and sold both to retail outlets and distributors throughout the world.
Pharmaceutical
The Pharmaceutical segment includes products in the following areas: anti-infective, antipsychotic, cardiovascular, contraceptive, gastrointestinal, hematology,
immunology, infectious diseases, metabolic, neurology, oncology, pain management and vaccines. These products are distributed directly to retailers, wholesalers and
health care professionals for prescription use. Key products in the Pharmaceutical segment include: REMICADE® (infliximab), a treatment for a number of immune-
mediated inflammatory diseases; SIMPONI® (golimumab), a treatment for adults with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis, active psoriatic arthritis, active ankylosing
spondylitis and moderately active to severely active ulcerative colitis; STELARA® (ustekinumab), a treatment for adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis and
active psoriatic arthritis; INCIVO® (telaprevir), for the treatment of hepatitis C; INTELENCE® (etravirine) and PREZISTA® (darunavir), treatments for HIV/AIDS;
CONCERTA® (methylphenidate HCl) extended-release tablets CII, a treatment for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder; INVEGA® (paliperidone) extended-release
tablets, for the treatment of schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder; INVEGA® SUSTENNA®/XEPLION® (paliperidone palmitate), for the treatment of schizophrenia
in adults; RISPERDAL® CONSTA® (risperidone), for the treatment of schizophrenia and for the maintenance treatment of Bipolar I Disorder; VELCADE®
(bortezomib), a treatment for multiple myeloma; ZYTIGA® (abiraterone acetate), a treatment for metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer; ACIPHEX®/PARIET®, a
proton pump inhibitor co-marketed with Eisai Inc.; PROCRIT® (epoetin alfa, sold outside the U.S. as EPREX®), to stimulate red blood cell production; and XARELTO®
(rivaroxaban), an oral anticoagulant for the prevention of deep vein thrombosis (DVT), which may lead to pulmonary embolism (PE) in patients undergoing hip or knee
replacement surgery, to reduce the risk of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, for the treatment of DVT and PE, and for the
reduction in the risk of recurrence of DVT and PE.
1Table of Contents
Medical Devices and Diagnostics
The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment includes a broad range of products distributed to wholesalers, hospitals and retailers, used principally in the
professional fields by physicians, nurses, hospitals, and clinics. These include products to treat cardiovascular disease; orthopaedic and neurological products; blood
glucose monitoring and insulin delivery products; general surgery, biosurgical, and energy products; professional diagnostic products; infection prevention products; and
disposable contact lenses.
Geographic Areas
The business of Johnson & Johnson is conducted by more than 275 operating companies located in 60 countries, including the United States, which sell
products in virtually all countries throughout the world. The products made and sold in the international business include many of those described above under
“— Segments of Business — Consumer,” “— Pharmaceutical” and “— Medical Devices and Diagnostics.” However, the principal markets, products and methods of
distribution in the international business vary with the country and the culture. The products sold in international business include not only those developed in the United
States, but also those developed by subsidiaries abroad.
Investments and activities in some countries outside the United States are subject to higher risks than comparable U.S. activities because the investment and
commercial climate may be influenced by restrictive economic policies and political uncertainties.
Raw Materials
Raw materials essential to the Company's business are generally readily available from multiple sources. Where there are exceptions, the temporary
unavailability of those raw materials would not likely have a material adverse effect on the financial results of the Company.
Patents and Trademarks
The Company's subsidiaries have made a practice of obtaining patent protection on their products and processes where possible. They own or are licensed under
a number of patents relating to their products and manufacturing processes, which in the aggregate are believed to be of material importance to the Company in the
operation of its businesses. Sales of the Company’s largest product, REMICADE® (infliximab), accounted for approximately 9.4% of the Company's total revenues for
fiscal 2013. Accordingly, the patents related to this product are believed to be material to the Company.
There are two sets of patents related to REMICADE® (infliximab). The first set of patents is co-owned by Janssen Biotech, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Johnson & Johnson, and New York University Medical Center (NYU). Janssen Biotech, Inc. has an exclusive license to NYU's interests in the patents. Patents have been
granted in the United States, certain countries in the European Union (certain of these patents have been extended by Supplementary Patent Certificates), and Australia.
In the United States, the patent expires in September 2018. These patents expired in Canada in March 2012. In certain countries in Europe the patent hasbeen extended
to February 2015 (Germany, Spain, United Kingdom, Sweden, Austria, Belgium, Switzerland, Denmark, France,Greece, Italy, Luxembourg and the Netherlands). In
Australia, the patent expires in March 2017.
The second set of patents related to REMICADE® was granted to the Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology in the United Kingdom in Europe, Canada, Australia
and the United States. Janssen Biotech, Inc. has an exclusive license to these patents which expire in 2017 outside of the United States and 2018 in the United States.
The validity of these patents has been
challenged and is currently in litigation.
Loss of exclusivity for REMICADE® in the above-mentioned markets may result in a reduction in sales. Johnson & Johnson does not expect that any additional
extensions will be available for the patents related to REMICADE®.
In addition to competing in the immunology market with REMICADE®, the Company is currently marketing STELARA® (ustekinumab), SIMPONI®
(golimumab) and SIMPONI® ARIA™ (golimumab), next generation immunology products with remaining patent lives of 10 years.
The Company’s subsidiaries have made a practice of selling their products under trademarks and of obtaining protection for these trademarks by all available
means. These trademarks are protected by registration in the United States and other countries where such products are marketed. The Company considers these
trademarks in the aggregate to be of material importance in the operation of its businesses.
2Table of Contents
Seasonality
Worldwide sales do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality; however, spending has been heavier in the fourth quarter of each year than in other
quarters. This reflects increased spending decisions, principally for advertising and research and development activity.
Competition
In all of their product lines, the Company's subsidiaries compete with companies both locally and globally, throughout the world. Competition exists in all
product lines without regard to the number and size of the competing companies involved. Competition in research, involving the development and the improvement of
new and existing products and processes, is particularly significant. The development of new and innovative products is important to the Company’s success in all areas
of its business. This also includes protecting the Company’s portfolio of intellectual property. The competitive environment requires substantial investments in continuing
research. In addition, the development and maintenance of customer demand for the Company’s consumer products involves significant expenditures for advertising and
promotion.
Research and Development
Research activities represent a significant part of the Company’s businesses. Research and development expenditures relate to the processes of discovering,
testing and developing new products, improving existing products, as well as demonstrating product efficacy and regulatory compliance prior to launch. The Company
remains committed to investing in research and development with the aim of delivering high quality and innovative products. Worldwide costs of research and
development activities amounted to $8.2 billion, $7.7 billion and $7.5 billion for fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Major research facilities are located not
only in the United States, but also in Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Israel, Japan, the Netherlands, Singapore, Switzerland and the United
Kingdom.
Environment
The Company is subject to a variety of U.S. and international environmental protection measures. The Company believes that its operations comply in all
material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations. The Company’s compliance with these requirements did not during the past year, and is not
expected to, have a material effect upon its capital expenditures, cash flows, earnings or competitive position.
Regulation
Most of the Company’s businesses are subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation in the countries in which operations are conducted, and the general
trend is toward increasingly stringent regulation. In the United States, the drug, device, diagnostics and cosmetic industries have long been subject to regulation by
various federal and state agencies, primarily as to product safety, efficacy, manufacturing, advertising, labeling and safety reporting. The exercise of broad regulatory
powers by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") continues to result in increases in the amounts of testing and documentation required for FDA clearance
of new drugs and devices and a corresponding increase in the expense of product introduction. Similar trends are also evident in major markets outside of the United
States.
The costs of human health care have been and continue to be a subject of study, investigation and regulation by governmental agencies and legislative bodies
around the world. In the United States, attention has been focused on drug prices and profits and programs that encourage doctors to write prescriptions for particular
drugs or recommend, use or purchase particular medical devices. Payers have become a more potent force in the market place and increased attention is being paid to
drug and medical device pricing, appropriate drug and medical device utilization and the quality and costs of health care generally.
Following the U.S. Supreme Court decision in June 2012 upholding the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the "ACA"), there has been an increase in
the pace of regulatory issuances by those U.S. government agencies designated to carry out the extensive requirements of the ACA. These have both positive and
negative impacts on the U.S. healthcare industry with much remaining uncertain as to how various provisions of the ACA will ultimately affect the industry.
The regulatory agencies under whose purview the Company operates have administrative powers that may subject it to actions such as product withdrawals,
recalls, seizure of products and other civil and criminal sanctions. In some cases, the Company’s subsidiaries may deem it advisable to initiate product recalls.
In addition, business practices in the health care industry have come under increased scrutiny, particularly in the United States, by government agencies and
state attorneys general, and resulting investigations and prosecutions carry the risk of significant civil and criminal penalties.
3Table of Contents
Available Information
The Company’s main corporate website address is www.jnj.com. Copies of the Company’s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Annual Report on Form 10-K and
Current Reports on Form 8-K filed or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), and any amendments to the foregoing, will be provided
without charge to any shareholder submitting a written request to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company or by calling 1-800-950-5089. All of
the Company’s SEC filings are also available on the Company’s website at www.investor.jnj.com/governance/sec-filings.cfm, as soon as reasonably practicable after
having been electronically filed or furnished to the SEC. All SEC filings are also available at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. In addition, the written charters of the
Audit Committee, the Compensation & Benefits Committee, the Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee, the Regulatory, Compliance & Government Affairs
Committee and the Science, Technology & Sustainability Committee of the Board of Directors and the Company’s Principles of Corporate Governance, Policy on
Business Conduct for employees, Code of Business Conduct & Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers, and other corporate governance
materials, are available at www.investor.jnj.com/governance/materials.cfm on the Company's website and will be provided without charge to any shareholder submitting a
written request, as provided above. The information on the Company’s website is not, and will not be deemed, a part of this Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into
any other filings the Company makes with the SEC.
Item 1A. RISK FACTORS
Some important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ from the Company’s expectations in any forward-looking statements in this
Report are set forth in Exhibit 99 to this Report on Form 10-K.
Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
Not applicable.
Item 2. PROPERTIES
The Company's subsidiaries operate 144 manufacturing facilities occupying approximately 21.7 million square feet of floor space. The manufacturing facilities are used
by the industry segments of the Company’s business approximately as follows:
Square Feet
Segment (in thousands)
Consumer 7,104
Pharmaceutical 7,069
Medical Devices and Diagnostics 7,500
Worldwide Total 21,673
Within the United States, eight facilities are used by the Consumer segment, eight by the Pharmaceutical segment and 34 by the Medical Devices and Diagnostics
segment. The Company’s manufacturing operations outside the United States are often conducted in facilities that serve more than one business segment. The locations
of the manufacturing facilities by major geographic areas of the world are as follows:
Square Feet
Geographic Area Number of Facilities (in thousands)
United States 50 6,510
Europe 43 7,979
Western Hemisphere, excluding U.S. 15 2,886
Africa, Asia and Pacific 36 4,298
Worldwide Total 144 21,673
In addition to the manufacturing facilities discussed above, Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries maintain numerous office and warehouse facilities throughout the
world. Research facilities are also discussed in Item 1 under “Business — Research and Development.”
The Company's subsidiaries generally seek to own their manufacturing facilities, although some, principally in locations abroad, are leased. Office and
warehouse facilities are often leased.
4Table of Contents
The Company is committed to maintaining all of its properties in good operating condition and repair, and the facilities are well utilized.
McNEIL-PPC, Inc. continues to operate under a consent decree, signed in 2011 with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which governs certain
McNeil Consumer Healthcare manufacturing operations. McNeil continues to operate the manufacturing facilities in Las Piedras, Puerto Rico and Lancaster,
Pennsylvania and has made significant progress, having met the remediation commitments at those facilities. The Company also successfully reintroduced many
products previously made in Fort Washington, Pennsylvania, from other sites. Plants operating under the consent decree will continue to produce a simplified portfolio
focused on key brands. The Fort Washington manufacturing site is not in operation at this time and the Company recently made the decision to make further investments
in that facility prior to certification. A discussion of this matter can be found under the heading “Government Proceedings - McNeil Consumer Healthcare” in Note 21
“Legal Proceedings” under “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on Form 10-K.
For information regarding lease obligations, see Note 16 “Rental Expense and Lease Commitments” under “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” of the
Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on Form 10-K. Segment information on additions to property, plant and equipment is contained in Note 18 “Segments
of Business and Geographic Areas” under “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on Form 10-K.
Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
The following information is incorporated by reference: the information set forth in Note 21 “Legal Proceedings” under “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” of
the Annual Report filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on Form 10-K.
In addition, Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries are from time to time party to government investigations, inspections or other proceedings relating
to environmental matters, including their compliance with applicable environmental laws. In connection with a routine inspection of a subsidiary's manufacturing
facility, the California Department of Toxic Substances Control (the "Department") has alleged violation of regulations dealing with the handling of certain wastes. The
Company believes that adequate defenses to those allegations exist and has reached an agreement in principal with the Department to resolve this matter. The Company
does not expect the resolution of this matter to have a material adverse impact on the Company.
Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
Listed below are the executive officers of the Company as of February 21, 2014. There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers, and
there is no arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which the executive officer was selected. At the annual meeting
of the Board of Directors, the executive officers are elected by the Board to hold office for one year and until their respective successors are elected and qualified, or
until earlier resignation or removal.
Information with regard to the Directors of the Company, including information for Alex Gorsky, is incorporated herein by reference to the material captioned
“Election of Directors” in the Proxy Statement.
Name Age Position
Dominic J. Caruso 56 Member, Executive Committee; Vice President, Finance; Chief Financial Officer(a)
Peter M. Fasolo 51 Member, Executive Committee; Vice President, Global Human Resources(b)
Alex Gorsky 53 Chairman, Board of Directors; Chairman, Executive Committee; Chief Executive Officer
Sandra E. Peterson 55 Member, Executive Committee; Group Worldwide Chairman(c)
Paulus Stoffels 52 Member, Executive Committee; Chief Scientific Officer; Worldwide Chairman, Pharmaceuticals
Group(d)
Michael H. Ullmann 55 Member, Executive Committee; Vice President, General Counsel(e)
_______________________________________
5Table of Contents
(a) Mr. D. J. Caruso joined the Company in 1999 when the Company acquired Centocor, Inc. At the time of that acquisition, he had been Senior Vice President,
Finance of Centocor. Mr. Caruso was named Vice President, Finance of Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company, in 2001 and Vice
President, Group Finance of the Company’s Medical Devices and Diagnostics Group in 2003. In 2005, Mr. Caruso was named Vice President of the Company’s
Group Finance organization. Mr. Caruso became a Member of the Executive Committee and Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer in 2007.
(b) Dr. P. M. Fasolo joined the Company in 2004 as Vice President, Worldwide Human Resources for Cordis Corporation, a subsidiary of the Company. He was
then named Vice President, Global Talent Management for the Company. He left Johnson & Johnson in 2007 to join Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. as Chief
Talent Officer. Dr. Fasolo returned to the Company in 2010 as the Vice President, Global Human Resources, and in 2011, he became a Member of the
Executive Committee.
(c) Ms. S. E. Peterson joined the Company in 2012 as Group Worldwide Chairman and a Member of the Executive Committee, with responsibility for the
Consumer Group of Companies, consumer-directed medical device businesses, Johnson & Johnson Vision Care and Johnson & Johnson Diabetes Care
franchises, and functions such as Johnson & Johnson Supply Chain, Information Technology, Wellness and Prevention and Global Strategic Design. Prior to
joining Johnson & Johnson, Ms. Peterson had an extensive global career in healthcare, consumer goods and consulting. Most recently, she was Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer of Bayer CropScience AG in Germany, previously serving as President and Chief Executive Officer of Bayer Medical Care and
President of Bayer HealthCare AG's Diabetes Care Division. Before joining Bayer in 2005, Ms. Peterson held a number of leadership roles at Medco Health
Solutions (previously known as Merck-Medco). Among her responsibilities was the application of information technology to healthcare systems.
(d) Dr. P. Stoffels joined the Company in 2002 with the acquisition of Virco and Tibotec, where he was Chief Executive Officer of Virco and Chairman of Tibotec.
In 2005, he was appointed Company Group Chairman, Global Virology where he led the development of PREZISTA® and INTELENCE®, leading products for
the treatment of HIV. In 2006, he assumed the role of Company Group Chairman, Pharmaceuticals, with responsibility for worldwide research and development
for the Central Nervous System and Internal Medicine Franchises. Dr. Stoffels was appointed Global Head, Research & Development, Pharmaceuticals, in 2009,
and in 2011 became Worldwide Chairman, Pharmaceuticals Group, with responsibility for the Company's therapeutic pipeline through global research and
development and strategic business development. In 2012, Dr. Stoffels was also appointed Chief Scientific Officer, with responsibility for enterprise-wide
innovation and product safety, and a Member of the Executive Committee.
(e) Mr. M. H. Ullmann joined the Company in 1989 as a corporate attorney in the Law Department. He was appointed Corporate Secretary in 1999 and served in
that role until 2006. During that time, he also held various management positions in the Law Department. In 2006, he was named General Counsel of the
Medical Devices and Diagnostics Group. Mr. Ullmann was appointed Vice President, General Counsel and a Member of the Executive Committee in 2012.
PART II
Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
SECURITIES
As of February 18, 2013, there were 165,304record holders of Common Stock of the Company. Additional information called for by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to: the material under the captions “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Liquidity and Capital
Resources — Dividends”; “— Other Information — Common Stock Market Prices”; Note 17 “Common Stock, Stock Option Plans and Stock Compensation
Agreements” under “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”; and “Shareholder Return Performance Graphs” under "Supporting Schedules" of the Annual Report,
filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on Form 10-K; and Item 12 “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters —
Equity Compensation Plan Information” of this Report on Form 10-K.
6Table of Contents
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
The following table provides information with respect to Common Stock purchases by the Company during the fiscal fourth quarter of 2013. Common Stock
purchases on the open market are made as part of a systematic plan to meet the needs of the Company’s compensation programs. The repurchases below also include the
stock-for-stock option exercises that settled in the fiscal fourth quarter.
Maximum Number (or
Total Number of Shares Approximate Dollar
(or Units) Purchased as Value) of Shares (or
Part of Publicly Units) that May Yet Be
Total Number Avg. Price Announced Plans or Purchased Under the
Period of Shares Purchased Paid Per Share Programs Plans or Programs
September 30, 2013 through October 27, 2013 693,733 $ 88.12 - -
October 28, 2013 through November 24, 2013 1,929,925 92.95 - -
November 25, 2013 through December 29, 2013 2,728,307 94.07 - -
Total 5,351,965
Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the “Summary of Operations and Statistical Data 2003-2013” under "Supporting
Schedules" of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on Form 10-K.
Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the narrative and tabular material under the caption “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on Form 10-K.
Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the material under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
Operations and Financial Condition — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Financing and Market Risk” and Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies —
Financial Instruments” under “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on Form 10-K.
Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto and the material under
the caption “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on Form 10-K.
Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
Not applicable.
Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Disclosure Controls and Procedures. At the end of the period covered by this report, the Company evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of its
disclosure controls and procedures. The Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company
in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and
forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the
Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including its principal
executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Alex Gorsky,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Dominic J. Caruso, Chief Financial Officer, reviewed and participated in
7Table of Contents
this evaluation. Based on this evaluation, Messrs. Gorsky and Caruso concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, the Company’s disclosure
controls and procedures were effective.
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the material
under the caption "Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting" of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on Form 10-K.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. During the fiscal quarter ended December 29, 2013, there were no changes in the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required under Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 under the Exchange Act that have materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION
Not applicable.
PART III
Item 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the material under the captions “Item 1: Election of Directors” and “Stock
Ownership and Section 16 Compliance — Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” and the discussion of the Audit Committee under the caption
“Corporate Governance — Standing Board Committees” in the Proxy Statement; and the material under the caption “Executive Officers of the Registrant” in Part I of
this Report on Form 10-K.
The Company’s Policy on Business Conduct, which covers all employees (including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller), meets
the requirements of the SEC rules promulgated under Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Policy on Business Conduct is available on the Company’s
website at www.investor.jnj.com/governance/policies.cfm, and copies are available to shareholders without charge upon written request to the Secretary at the Company’s
principal executive offices. Any substantive amendment to the Policy on Business Conduct or any waiver of the Policy granted to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief
Financial Officer or the Controller will be posted on the Company’s website at www.investor.jnj.com/governance.cfm within five business days (and retained on the
website for at least one year).
In addition, the Company has adopted a Code of Business Conduct & Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers. The Code of
Business Conduct & Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers is available on the Company’s website at www.investor.jnj.com/governance
/policies.cfm, and copies are available to shareholders without charge upon written request to the Secretary at the Company’s principal executive offices. Any substantive
amendment to the Code or any waiver of the Code granted to any member of the Board of Directors or any executive officer will be posted on the Company’s website at
www.investor.jnj.com/governance.cfm within five business days (and retained on the website for at least one year).
Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the material under the captions Corporate Governance — Item 1: Election of Directors —
Director Compensation - 2013," "Compensation Committee Report," “Compensation Discussion and Analysis” and "Executive Compensation" in the Proxy Statement.
The material incorporated herein by reference to the material under the caption “Compensation Committee Report” in the Proxy Statement shall be deemed
furnished, and not filed, in this Report on Form 10-K and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as a result of this furnishing, except to the extent that the Registrant specifically incorporates it by reference.
Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
Additional information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the material under the captions “Stock Ownership and Section 16 Compliance” in
the Proxy Statement and Note 17 “Common Stock, Stock Option Plans and Stock Compensation Agreements” under “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” of the
Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on Form 10-K.
8Table of Contents
Equity Compensation Plan Information
The following table provides certain information as of December 29, 2013 concerning the shares of the Company’s Common Stock that may be issued under
existing equity compensation plans.
Number of Securities
to
be Issued Upon Weighted Average Number of Securities
Exercise of Exercise Price of Remaining Available for
Outstanding Options Outstanding Options Future Issuance Under Equity
Plan Category and Rights and Rights Compensation Plans(2)(3)
Equity Compensation Plans Approved by Security Holders(1) 151,707,900 $50.99 583,022,234
Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved by Security Holders - - -
Total 151,707,900 $50.99 583,022,234
_______________________________________
(1) Included in this category are the following equity compensation plans, which have been approved by the Company’s shareholders: 2000 Stock Option Plan,
2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan and 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
(2) This column excludes shares reflected under the column “Number of Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options and Rights.”
(3) The 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan expired April 26, 2012. All options and restricted shares granted subsequent to that date were under the 2012 Long-Term
Incentive Plan.
Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the material under the captions “Transactions with Related Persons” and “Corporate
Governance — Director Independence” in the Proxy Statement.
Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the material under the caption “Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm” in the Proxy Statement.
9Table of Contents
PART IV
Item 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
(a) The following documents are filed as part of this report:
1. Financial Statements
The following Audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto and the material under the caption “Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm” of the Annual Report are incorporated herein by reference and filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on Form 10-K:
Consolidated Balance Sheets at end of Fiscal Years 2013 and 2012
Consolidated Statements of Earnings for Fiscal Years 2013, 2012 and 2011
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for Fiscal Years 2013, 2012 and 2011
Consolidated Statements of Equity for Fiscal Years 2013, 2012 and 2011
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for Fiscal Years 2013, 2012 and 2011
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
2. Financial Statement Schedules
Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
Schedules other than those listed above are omitted because they are not required or are not applicable.
3. Exhibits Required to be Filed by Item 60l of Regulation S-K
The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Exhibit Index in this report.
10Table of Contents
JOHNSON & JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
Fiscal Years Ended December 29, 2013, December 30, 2012 and January 1, 2012
(Dollars in Millions)
Balance at Balance at
Beginning of End of
Period Accruals Payments/Other Period
2013
Accrued Rebates(1) $ 2,466 10,559 (10,102) 2,923
Accrued Returns 710 480 (558) 632
Accrued Promotions 435 1,619 (1,571) 483
Subtotal $ 3,611 12,658 (12,231) 4,038
Reserve for doubtful accounts 466 53 (186) 333
Reserve for cash discounts 105 1,097 (1,099) 103
Total $ 4,182 13,808 (13,516) 4,474
2012
Accrued Rebates(1) $ 2,215 8,973 (8,722) 2,466
Accrued Returns 682 549 (521) 710
Accrued Promotions 396 1,583 (1,544) 435
Subtotal $ 3,293 11,105 (10,787) 3,611
Reserve for doubtful accounts 361 127 (22) 466
Reserve for cash discounts 99 1,010 (1,004) 105
Total $ 3,753 12,242 (11,813) 4,182
2011
Accrued Rebates(1) $ 2,146 8,331 (8,262) 2,215
Accrued Returns 640 560 (518) 682
Accrued Promotions 427 1,774 (1,805) 396
Subtotal $ 3,213 10,665 (10,585) 3,293
Reserve for doubtful accounts 340 77 (56) 361
Reserve for cash discounts 110 960 (971) 99
Total $ 3,663 11,702 (11,612) 3,753
_______________________________________
(1) Includes reserve for customer rebates of $730 million, $642 million and $656 million at December 29, 2013, December 30, 2012 and January 1, 2012,
respectively, recorded as a contra asset.
11Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 21, 2014
JOHNSON & JOHNSON
(Registrant)
By /s/ A. Gorsky
A. Gorsky, Chairman, Board of Directors,
and Chief Executive Officer
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in
the capacities and on the dates indicated.
.
Signature Title Date
/s/ A. Gorsky Chairman, Board of Directors, February 21, 2014
A. Gorsky Chief Executive Officer, and Director (Principal Executive Officer)
/s/ D. J. Caruso Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) February 21, 2014
D. J. Caruso
/s/ S. J. Cosgrove Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) February 21, 2014
S. J. Cosgrove
/s/ M. S. Coleman Director February 21, 2014
M. S. Coleman
/s/ J. G. Cullen Director February 21, 2014
J. G. Cullen
/s/ I. E. L. Davis Director February 21, 2014
I. E. L. Davis
/s/ M. M. E. Johns Director February 21, 2014
M. M. E. Johns
12Table of Contents
Signature Title Date
/s/ S. L. Lindquist Director February 21, 2014
S. L. Lindquist
/s/ M. B. McClellan Director February 21, 2014
M. B. McClellan
/s/ A. M. Mulcahy Director February 21, 2014
A. M. Mulcahy
/s/ L. F. Mullin Director February 21, 2014
L. F. Mullin
/s/ W. D. Perez Director February 21, 2014
W. D. Perez
/s/ C. Prince Director February 21, 2014
C. Prince
/s/ A. E. Washington Director February 21, 2014
A. E. Washington
/s/ R. A. Williams Director February 21, 2014
R. A. Williams
13Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON
FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
To the Board of Directors of
Johnson & Johnson:
Our audits of the consolidated financial statements and of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting referred to in our report dated February 21, 2014
appearing in the 2013 Annual Report to Shareholders of Johnson & Johnson (which report and consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this financial
statement schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
New York, New York
February 21, 2014
14Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX
Reg. S-K
Exhibit Table Description
Item No. of Exhibit
3(i)(a) Restated Certificate of Incorporation effective April 26, 1990 — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(a) of the Registrant’s Form1 0-K
Annual Report for the year ended December 30, 1990.
3(i)(b) Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company effective May 20, 1992 — Incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 3(a) of the Registrant’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended January 3, 1993.
3(i)(c) Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company effective May 21, 1996 — Incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 3(a)(iii) of the Registrant’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 29, 1996.
3(i)(d) Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company effective May 22, 2001 — Incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 3 of the Registrant’s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended July 1, 2001.
3(i)(e) Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company effective April 27, 2006 — Incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 3(i) of the Registrant’s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report for the quarter ended April 2, 2006.
3(ii) By-Laws of the Company, as amended effective April 17, 2012 — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 the Registrant’s Form 8-K
Current Report filed April 19, 2012.
4(a) Upon the request of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Registrant will furnish a copy of all instruments defining the rights of holders of
long-term debt of the Registrant.
10(a) Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) of the Registrant’s Form 10-K Annual Report
for the year ended December 29, 1996.*
10(b) 2000 Stock Option Plan (as amended) — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b) of the Registrant's Form 10-K Annual Report for the
year ended January 1, 2012.*
10(c) 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4 of the Registrant’s S-8 Registration Statement filed with the
Commission on May 10, 2005 (file no. 333-124785).*
10(d) Form of Restricted Shares to Non-Employee Directors under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10.1 of the Registrant’s Form 8-K Current Report filed August 25, 2005.*
10(e) Form of Stock Option Certificate, Restricted Share Unit Certificate and Performance Share Unit Certificate under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive
Plan — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3 of the Registrant’s Form 8-K Current Report filed January 13, 2012.*
10(f) 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan — Incorporated herein by reference to Appendix A of the Registrant’s Proxy Statement filed with the Commission
on March 14, 2012 .*
10(g) Form of Stock Option Certificate, Restricted Share Unit Certificate and Performance Share Unit Certificate under the 2012 Long-Term Incentive
Plan — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibits 10.2, 10.3 and 10.4 of the Registrant’s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report filed May 7, 2012.*
10(h) Executive Incentive Plan (as amended) — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(f) of the Registrant’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the
year ended December 31, 2000.*
10(i) Domestic Deferred Compensation (Certificate of Extra Compensation) Plan — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(g) of the Registrant’s
Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 28, 2003.*
10(j) Amendments to the Certificate of Extra Compensation Plan effective as of January 1, 2009 — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(j) of
the Registrant’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 28, 2008.*
10(k) 2009 Certificates of Long-Term Performance Plan — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant’s Form 10-Q Quarterly
Report for the quarter ended September 27, 2009.*
10(l) Amended and Restated Deferred Fee Plan for Directors — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(k) of the Registrant's Form 10-K Annual
Report for the year ended January 1, 2012.*
10(m) Executive Income Deferral Plan (Amended and Restated) — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant’s Form 10-Q
Quarterly Report for the quarter ended September 30, 2012.*
15Table of Contents
Reg. S-K
Exhibit Table Description
Item No. of Exhibit
10(n) Excess Savings Plan — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(j) of the Registrant’s Form1 0-K Annual Report for the year ended
December 29, 1996.*
10(o) Amendments to the Johnson & Johnson Excess Savings Plan effective as of January 1, 2009 — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(p)
of the Registrant’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 28, 2008.*
10(p) Excess Benefit Plan (Supplemental Retirement Plan) — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(h) of the Registrant’s Form 10-K Annual
Report for the year ended January 3, 1993.*
10(q) Amendments to the Excess Benefit Plan of Johnson & Johnson and Affiliated Companies effective as of January 1, 2009 — Incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10(r) of the Registrant’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 28, 2008.*
10(r) Executive Life Plan Agreement — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(i) of the Registrant’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year
ended January 3, 1993.*
10(s) Johnson & Johnson Retirement Savings Plan, Johnson & Johnson Savings Plan for Union Represented Employees, and Johnson & Johnson Savings
Plan - Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3 of the Registrant's Form S-8 filed with the Commission on May 6, 2013.*
10(t) Employment Agreement for Dr. Paulus Stoffels - Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Registrant’s Form 10-Q Quarterly Report
for the quarter ended September 30, 2012.*
10(u) Summary of Employment Arrangements for Sandra E. Peterson — Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(t) of the Registrant's Form 10-K
Annual Report for the year ended December 30, 2012.*
12 Statement of Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges — Filed with this document.
13 The following sections of the Annual Report to Shareholders for fiscal year 2013, which are incorporated by reference in this report, are deemed
“filed”: “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition”; “Audited Consolidated Financial Statements”;
“Supporting Schedules - Summary of Operations and Statistical Data 2003 - 2013”; and “Supporting Schedules - Shareholder Return Performance
Graphs” - Filed with this document.
21 Subsidiaries — Filed with this document.
23 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm — Filed with this document.
31(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act — Filed with this document.
31(b) Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act — Filed with this document.
32(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act — Furnished with this document.
32(b) Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act — Furnished with this document.
99 Cautionary Statement Pursuant to Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 — “Safe Harbor” for Forward-Looking Statements — Filed
with this document.
101 XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language) The following materials from Johnson & Johnson’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year-ended December 29, 2013, formatted in Extensive Business Reporting Language (XBRL): (i) Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) Consolidated
Statements of Earnings, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Equity, (v) Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows, (vi) Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and (vii) Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.
_______________________________________
* Management contract or compensatory plan.
A copy of any of the Exhibits listed above will be provided without charge to any shareholder submitting a written request specifying the desired exhibit(s) to the
Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Company.
16EXHIBIT 12
JOHNSON & JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
STATEMENT OF COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES(1)
(Dollars in Millions)
Fiscal Year Ended
December 29, December 30,
2013 2012 January 1, 2012 January 2, 2011 January 3, 2010
Determination of Earnings:
Earnings Before Provision for Taxes on
Income $ 15,471 $ 13,775 $ 12,361 $ 16,947 $ 15,755
Fixed Charges, less Capitalized Interest 603 657 675 555 558
Total Earnings as Defined $ 16,074 $ 14,432 $ 13,036 $ 17,502 $ 16,313
Fixed Charges:
Estimated Interest Portion of Rent Expense 121 125 104 100 107
Interest Expense before Capitalization of
Interest 587 647 655 528 552
Total Fixed Charges $ 708 $ 772 $ 759 $ 628 $ 659
Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 22.70 18.69 17.18 27.87 24.75
_______________________________________
(1) The ratio of earnings to fixed charges is computed by dividing the sum of earnings before provision for taxes on income and fixed charges by fixed charges.
Fixed charges represent interest expense (before interest is capitalized), amortization of debt discount and an appropriate interest factor on operating leases.Table of Contents
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
2Organization and Business Segments
3Results of Operations
4Analysis of Sales by Business Segments
8Analysis of Consolidated Earnings Before Provision for Taxes on Income
11Liquidity and Capital Resources
13Other Information
19Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results
AUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
20Consolidated Balance Sheets
21Consolidated Statements of Earnings
22Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
23Consolidated Statements of Equity
24Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
26Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
67Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
68Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
SUPPORTING SCHEDULES
69Summary of Operations and Statistical Data 2003 — 2013
70Shareholder Return Performance Graphs
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 1Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Organization and Business Segments
Description of the Company and Business Segments
Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries (the Company) have approximately 128,100 employees worldwide engaged in the research and development, manufacture and
sale of a broad range of products in the health care field. The Company conducts business in virtually all countries of the world with the primary focus on products
related to human health and well-being.
The Company is organized into three business segments: Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics. The Consumer segment includes a broad
range of products used in the baby care, skin care, oral care, wound care and women’s health fields, as well as nutritionals, over-the-counter pharmaceutical products and
wellness and prevention platforms. These products are marketed to the general public and sold both to retail outlets and distributors throughout the world. The
Pharmaceutical segment includes products in the following areas: anti-infective, antipsychotic, cardiovascular, contraceptive, gastrointestinal, hematology, immunology,
infectious diseases, metabolic, neurology, oncology, pain management and vaccines. These products are distributed directly to retailers, wholesalers and health care
professionals for prescription use. The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment includes a broad range of products distributed to wholesalers, hospitals and retailers,
used principally in the professional fields by physicians, nurses, hospitals and clinics. These include products to treat cardiovascular disease; orthopaedic and
neurological products; blood glucose monitoring and insulin delivery products; general surgery, biosurgical, and energy products; professional diagnostic products;
infection prevention products; and disposable contact lenses.
The Company’s structure is based upon the principle of decentralized management. The Executive Committee of Johnson & Johnson is the principal management
group responsible for the strategic operations and allocation of the resources of the Company. This Committee oversees and coordinates the activities of the Consumer,
Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics business segments.
In all of its product lines, the Company competes with companies both locally and globally, throughout the world. Competition exists in all product lines without
regard to the number and size of the competing companies involved. Competition in research, involving the development and the improvement of new and existing
products and processes, is particularly significant. The development of new and innovative products is important to the Company’s success in all areas of its business.
This also includes protecting the Company’s portfolio of intellectual property. The competitive environment requires substantial investments in continuing research. In
addition, the development and maintenance of customer demand for the Company’s consumer products involves significant expenditures for advertising and promotion.
Management’s Objectives
The Company manages within a strategic framework with Our Credo as the foundation. The Company believes that our strategic operating principles; being broadly
based in human health care, managing the business for the long term, a decentralized management approach and commitment to our people and values are required to
successfully meet the demands of the rapidly evolving markets in which we compete. To this end, management is focused on our growth drivers: creating value through
innovation, expanding our global reach with a local focus, excellence in execution and leading with purpose.
The Company engages in areas of human health care where there is an opportunity to make a meaningful difference, and is committed to creating value by
developing broadly accessible, high quality, innovative products and services. New products introduced within the past five years accounted for approximately 25% of
2013 sales. In 2013, $8.2 billion, or 11.5% of sales, was invested in research and development, reflecting management’s commitment to delivering new and differentiated
products and services to meet evolving health care needs and sustain the Company’s long-term growth.
Our diverse businesses with more than 275 operating companies located in 60 countries are the key drivers of the Company’s success. Maintaining the Company’s
decentralized management approach while at the same time leveraging the extensive resources of the enterprise uniquely positions the Company to innovate, execute and
reach markets globally, while focusing on the needs and challenges of the local markets.
In order to remain a leader in health care the Company strives to maintain a purpose-driven organization and is committed to developing global business leaders
who can achieve these growth objectives. Businesses are managed for the long-term in order to sustain market leadership positions and enable growth, which provides an
enduring source of value to our shareholders.
Our Credo unifies all Johnson & Johnson employees in achieving these objectives, and provides a common set of values that serve as the foundation of the
Company’s responsibilities to its customers, employees, communities and shareholders. The Company believes that these basic principles and growth drivers, along with
its overall mission of improving the quality of life for people across the globe, will enable Johnson & Johnson to continue to be a leader in the health care industry.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 2Results of Operations
Analysis of Consolidated Sales
In 2013, worldwide sales increased 6.1% to $71.3 billion, compared to increases of 3.4% in 2012 and 5.6% in 2011. These sales changes consisted of the following:
Sales increase/(decrease) due to: 2013 2012 2011
Volume 7.6% 5.7 3.1
Price 0.1 0.4 (0.3)
Currency (1.6) (2.7) 2.8
Total 6.1% 3.4 5.6
Sales by U.S. companies were $31.9 billion in 2013, $29.8 billion in 2012 and $28.9 billion in 2011. This represents increases of 7.0% in 2013 and 3.2% in 2012, and a
decrease of 1.8% in 2011. Sales by international companies were $39.4 billion in 2013, $37.4 billion in 2012 and $36.1 billion in 2011. This represents increases of
5.4% in 2013, 3.5% in 2012 and 12.4% in 2011. The acquisition of Synthes, Inc., net of the related divestiture, increased both total worldwide sales growth and
operational growth by 2.5% and 3.1% in 2013 and 2012, respectively.
The five-year compound annual growth rates for worldwide, U.S. and international sales were 2.3%, (0.2)% and 4.6%, respectively. The ten-year compound annual
growth rates for worldwide, U.S. and international sales were 5.5%, 2.4% and 9.0%, respectively.
Sales in Europe achieved growth of 9.8% as compared to the prior year, including operational growth of 7.7% and a positive currency impact of 2.1%. Sales in the
Western Hemisphere (excluding the U.S.) achieved growth of 3.0% as compared to the prior year, including operational growth of 8.9% and a negative currency impact
of 5.9%. Sales in the Asia-Pacific, Africa region achieved growth of 1.1% as compared to the prior year, including operational growth of 8.6% and a negative currency
impact of 7.5%.
In 2013, 2012 and 2011, the Company did not have a customer that represented 10% or more of total consolidated revenues.
U.S. Health Care Reform
Under the provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, beginning in 2013, the Company
began paying a tax deductible 2.3% excise tax imposed on the sale of certain medical devices. The 2013 full-year impact of the excise tax was approximately
$200 million.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 3Analysis of Sales by Business Segments
Consumer Segment
Consumer segment sales in 2013 were $14.7 billion, an increase of 1.7% from 2012, which included 2.8% operational growth and a negative currency impact of 1.1%.
U.S. Consumer segment sales were $5.2 billion, an increase of 2.3%. International sales were $9.5 billion, an increase of 1.4%, which included 3.1% operational growth
and a negative currency impact of 1.7%.
Major Consumer Franchise Sales:*
% Change
(Dollars in Millions) 2013 2012 2011 ’13 vs. ’12 ’12 vs. ’11
OTC $ 4,028 3,766 3,740 7.0 % 0.7
Skin Care 3,704 3,618 3,715 2.4 (2.6)
Baby Care 2,295 2,254 2,340 1.8 (3.7)
Oral Care 1,622 1,624 1,624 (0.1) 0.0
Women’s Health 1,568 1,625 1,792 (3.5) (9.3)
Wound Care/Other 1,480 1,560 1,672 (5.1) (6.7)
Total Consumer Sales $ 14,697 14,447 14,883 1.7 % (2.9)
* Prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. Nutritionals, previously included in OTC, is included in Wound Care/Other.
The Over-the-Counter (OTC) franchise achieved sales of $4.0 billion, an increase of 7.0% from 2012. Strong U.S. sales growth of 19.7% was driven by analgesics
and upper respiratory products, primarily due to continued progress in returning a reliable supply of products to the marketplace.
McNEIL-PPC, Inc. continues to operate under a consent decree, signed in 2011 with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which governs certain McNeil
Consumer Healthcare manufacturing operations. McNeil continues to operate the manufacturing facilities in Las Piedras, Puerto Rico and Lancaster, Pennsylvania and
has made significant progress; having met the remediation commitments at those facilities. The Company also successfully reintroduced many products previously made
in Fort Washington, Pennsylvania, from other sites. Plants operating under the consent decree will continue to produce a simplified portfolio focused on key brands. The
Fort Washington manufacturing site is not in operation at this time and the Company recently made the decision to make further investments in that facility prior to
certification.
The Skin Care franchise achieved sales of $3.7 billion, an increase of 2.4% as compared to the prior year, primarily due to strong results fromthe NEUTROGENA®,
AVEENO® and Dabao product lines. The Baby Care franchise sales grew to $2.3 billion, an increase of 1.8% from 2012. Growth was primarily due to sales of haircare
and baby cleansers outside the U.S. and newly acquired products from the acquisition of Shanghai Elsker Mother & Baby Co., Ltd. The Oral Care franchise sales were
flat as compared to the prior year. Increased sales of LISTERINE® outside the U.S. were partially offset by the impact of the divestiture of the manual toothbrush
product line in the U.S. The Women’s Health franchise sales were $1.6 billion, a decrease of 3.5% primarily due to the divestiture of women's sanitary protection
products in the U.S., Canada and Caribbean. The Wound Care/Other franchise sales were $1.5 billion in 2013, a decrease of 5.1% from 2012 due to competitive
pressures and the impact of divestitures.
Consumer segment sales in 2012 were $14.4 billion, a decrease of 2.9% from 2011, which included 0.5% operational growth offset by a negative currency impact of
3.4%. U.S. Consumer segment sales were $5.0 billion, a decrease of 2.0%. International sales were $9.4 billion, a decrease of 3.4%, which included 1.9% operational
growth offset by a negative currency impact of 5.3%.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 4Pharmaceutical Segment
The Pharmaceutical segment achieved sales of $28.1 billion in 2013, representing an increase of 10.9% over the prior year, with strong operational growth of 12.0% and
a negative currency impact of 1.1%. U.S. sales were $13.9 billion, an increase of 12.3%. International sales were $14.2 billion, an increase of 9.6%, which included
11.8% operational growth and a negative currency impact of 2.2%. The Pharmaceutical segment operational growth was impacted by 0.8% in 2013 due to a positive
adjustment to previous estimates for Managed Medicaid rebates.
Major Pharmaceutical Therapeutic Area Sales:*
% Change
(Dollars in Millions)
2013 2012 2011 ’13 vs. ’12 ’12 vs. ’11
Total Immunology $ 9,190 7,874 6,798 16.7 % 15.8
REMICADE® 6,673 6,139 5,492 8.7 11.8
SIMPONI® 932 607 410 53.5 48.0
STELARA® 1,504 1,025 738 46.7 38.9
Other Immunology 81 103 158 (21.4) (34.8)
Total Infectious Diseases 3,550 3,194 3,189 11.1 0.2
INCIVO® 517 443 82 16.7 **
INTELENCE® 379 349 314 8.6 11.1
PREZISTA® 1,673 1,414 1,211 18.3 16.8
Other Infectious Diseases 981 988 1,582 (0.7) (37.5)
Total Neuroscience 6,667 6,718 6,948 (0.8) (3.3)
CONCERTA®/methylphenidate 782 1,073 1,268 (27.1) (15.4)
INVEGA® 583 550 499 6.0 10.2
INVEGA® SUSTENNA®/XEPLION® 1,248 796 378 56.8 **
RISPERDAL® CONSTA® 1,318 1,425 1,583 (7.5) (10.0)
Other Neuroscience 2,736 2,874 3,220 (4.8) (10.7)
Total Oncology 3,773 2,629 2,048 43.5 28.4
VELCADE® 1,660 1,500 1,274 10.7 17.7
ZYTIGA® 1,698 961 301 76.7 **
Other Oncology 415 168 473 ** (64.5)
Total Other 4,945 4,936 5,385 0.2 (8.3)
ACIPHEX®/PARIET® 470 835 975 (43.7) (14.4)
PROCRIT®/EPREX® 1,364 1,462 1,623 (6.7) (9.9)
XARELTO® 864 239 25 ** **
Other 2,247 2,400 2,762 (6.4) (13.1)
Total Pharmaceutical Sales $ 28,125 25,351 24,368 10.9 % 4.0
* Prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
** Percentage greater than 100%
Immunology products achieved sales of $9.2 billion in 2013, representing an increase of 16.7% as compared to the prior year. The increased sales of STELARA®
(ustekinumab), SIMPONI® (golimumab) and REMICADE® (infliximab) were primarily due to market growth and market share gains.
Certain patents related to REMICADE® (infliximab) expired in Canada in March 2012. In certain countries in Europe the patent has been extended to February
2015 (Germany, Spain, United Kingdom, Sweden, Austria, Belgium, Switzerland, Denmark, France, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg and the Netherlands). Loss of exclusivity
for REMICADE® in these markets may result in a reduction in sales. The U.S. patents for REMICADE® expire in 2018.
Infectious disease products achieved sales of $3.6 billion in 2013, representing an increase of 11.1% as compared to the prior year. Major contributors were
PREZISTA® (darunavir), due to the continued momentum in market share growth, INCIVO® (telaprevir), EDURANT® (rilpivirine), INTELENCE® (etravirine) and the
launch of OLYSIO™ (simeprevir).
Neuroscience products sales were $6.7 billion, a decline of 0.8% as compared to the prior year. Strong sales of INVEGA® SUSTENNA®/XEPLION® (paliperidone
palmitate) and INVEGA® (paliperidone palmitate) were partially offset by lower sales
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 5of RISPERDAL® CONSTA® due to growth of INVEGA® SUSTENNA®/XEPLION®. Additionally,a decline in U.S. sales of CONCERTA®/methylphenidate and lower
sales of DURAGESIC®/Fentanyl Transdermal (fentanyl transdermal system) and RISPERDAL® (risperidone) was due to continued generic competition.
Oncology products achieved sales of $3.8 billion in 2013, representing an increase of 43.5% as compared to the prior year. This growth was primarily due to sales of
ZYTIGA® (abiraterone acetate), VELCADE® (bortezomib) and DOXIL®/CAELYX®(pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride), due to returning supply of
CAELYX®.
Other Pharmaceutical sales were $4.9 billion, an increase of 0.2% as compared to the prior year. Strong sales of XARELTO®(rivaroxaban) and the launch of
INVOKANA® (canagliflozin) were partially offset by lower sales of ACIPHEX®/PARIET® (rabeprazole sodium) and EPREX® (Epoetin alfa) primarily due to generic
competition.
During 2013, the company received several regulatory approvals including: The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval of OLYSIO™ (simeprevir), an
NS3/4A inhibitor, for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C infection as part of an antiviral treatment regimen in combination with pegylated interferon and ribavirin in
genotype 1 infected adults with compensated liver disease, including cirrhosis; FDA approval for IMBRUVICA™ (ibrutinib) capsules for the treatment of patients with
mantle cell lymphoma who have received at least one prior therapy; The FDA and European Commission (EC) approved INVOKANA® (canagliflozin), an oral,
once-daily, selective sodium glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitor, for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes; The FDA approved the use of STELARA® (ustekinumab)
alone or in combination with methotrexate for the treatment of adult patients with active psoriatic arthritis; The EC also approved STELARA® (ustekinumab), alone or
in combination with methotrexate for active psoriatic arthritis in adults when the response to previous non-biological disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug therapy has
been inadequate; The EC approved an expanded indication for SIMPONI® (golimumab) for the treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult
patients who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 6-mercaptopurine or azathioprine, or who are intolerant to or have
medical contraindications for such therapies; SIMPONI® (golimumab)was also approved by the FDA for the treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis
in adult patients who have demonstrated corticosteroid dependence or who have had an inadequate response to or failed to tolerate oral aminosalicylates, oral
corticosteroids, azathioprine, or 6-mercaptopurine; The FDA also approved SIMPONI® ARIATM (golimumab) for infusion for the treatment of adults with moderately to
severely active rheumatoid arthritis in combination with methotrexate. The EC approved the use of VELCADE® (bortezomib) as induction therapy in combination with
dexamethasone or thalidomide and dexamethasone and applies to adult patients with previously-untreated multiple myeloma who are eligible for high-dose
chemotherapy with hematological stem cell transplantation.
The Company submitted several New Drug Applications, including a Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and a
New Drug Application (NDA) to the FDA seeking approval for the use of ibrutinib for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic
leukemia /small lymphocytic lymphoma, and an MAA for relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma. An MAA was submitted to the EMA seeking approval for a
once-daily single tablet fixed-dose antiretroviral combination product containing darunavir, a protease inhibitor, with cobicistat, a pharmacokinetic enhancer or boosting
agent, developed by Gilead Sciences, Inc. for use in combination with other human immunodeficiency virus medicines. A Biologic License Application to the FDA and
an MAA to the EMA were simultaneously submitted for siltuximab for the treatment of patients with multicentric Castleman disease who are HIV-negative and human
herpes virus-8 -negative. An MAA was submitted to the EMA for simeprevir for the treatment of adult patients with chronic hepatitis C genotype 1 or genotype 4.
Additionally, an MAA was submitted to the EMA for canagliflozin/metformin fixed-dose combination therapy to treat patients with type 2 diabetes.
The Pharmaceutical segment achieved sales of $25.4 billion in 2012, representing an increase of 4.0% over the prior year, with operational growth of 6.8% and a
negative currency impact of 2.8%. U.S. sales were $12.4 billion, an increase of 0.3%. International sales were $12.9 billion, an increase of 7.9%, which included 13.6%
operational growth and a negative currency impact of 5.7%.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 6Medical Devices and Diagnostics Segment
The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment achieved sales of $28.5 billion in 2013, representing an increase of 3.9% over the prior year, with operational growth of
6.1% and a negative currency impact of 2.2%. U.S. sales were $12.8 billion, an increase of 3.5% as compared to the prior year. International sales were $15.7 billion, an
increase of 4.2% over the prior year, with operational growth of 8.3% and a negative currency impact of 4.1%. The acquisition of Synthes, Inc., net of the related trauma
business divestiture, increased both total sales growth and operational growth for the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment by 6.0% and 7.9% in 2013 and 2012,
respectively.
Major Medical Devices and Diagnostics Franchise Sales:
% Change
(Dollars in Millions) 2013 2012 2011 ’13 vs. ’12 ’12 vs. ’11
Orthopaedics $ 9,509 7,799 5,809 21.9 % 34.3
Surgical Care 6,269 6,483 6,637 (3.3) (2.3)
Vision Care 2,937 2,996 2,916 (2.0) 2.7
Specialty Surgery 2,592 2,526 2,407 2.6 4.9
Diabetes Care 2,309 2,616 2,652 (11.7) (1.4)
Cardiovascular Care 2,077 1,985 2,288 4.6 (13.2)
Diagnostics 1,885 2,069 2,164 (8.9) (4.4)
Infection Prevention/Other 912 952 906 (4.2) 5.1
Total Medical Devices and Diagnostics Sales $ 28,490 27,426 25,779 3.9 % 6.4
The Orthopaedics franchise achieved sales of $9.5 billion in 2013, a 21.9% increase over the prior year. Growth was primarily due to a full year of sales recorded from
the acquisition of Synthes, Inc. and sales of joint reconstruction products. Sales were impacted by the divestiture of certain rights and assets related to the DePuy trauma
business. The positive impact on the Orthopaedics franchise total sales growth and operational growth due to the newly acquired products from Synthes, Inc. net of the
related trauma business divestiture was 21.2% and 34.7% in 2013 and 2012, respectively.
The Surgical Care franchise sales were $6.3 billion in 2013, a decrease of 3.3% from the prior year. The decline was primarily due to lower sales of mechanical
surgery, breast care and pelvic floor products. Outside the U.S. increased sales of sutures and endoscopy products, with the success of the ECHELON FLEX™ powered
ENDOPATH® Stapler were offset by the negative impact from currency.
The Vision Care franchise achieved sales of $2.9 billion in 2013, a decrease of 2.0% from the prior year. The decline was primarily due to sales in Japan which
were impacted by the devaluation of the Yen. The decline was partially offset by growth of ACUVUE® TruEye® and 1-DAY ACUVUE® MOIST® for Astigmatism.
The Specialty Surgery franchise achieved sales of $2.6 billion in 2013, a 2.6% increase over the prior year. Contributors to the growth were strong sales from
biosurgical products, sales of energy products outside the U.S. and Acclarent products in the U.S.
The Diabetes Care franchise sales were $2.3 billion, a decrease of 11.7% versus the prior year. Sales declined due to the impact of lower prices primarily related to
competitive bidding in the U.S. as well as pricing pressures outside the U.S.
The Cardiovascular Care franchise sales were $2.1 billion, a 4.6% increase from the prior year. The increased sales were driven by strong growth in Biosense
Webster's electrophysiology business primarily due to the success of a number of catheter launches.
The Diagnostics franchise sales were $1.9 billion, a decline of 8.9% versus the prior year. The decline was primarily due to the divestiture of the Therakos business
and a sales decline in clinical laboratories. In January 2013, the Company announced it was exploring strategic alternatives for the Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics business
(the Diagnostics franchise), including a possible divestiture. In January 2014, the Company received a binding offer from The Carlyle Group to acquire the Ortho-
Clinical Diagnostics business. For more details see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Infection Prevention/Other franchise sales were $0.9 billion in 2013, a decrease of 4.2% versus the prior year primarily due to a negative currency impact.
The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment achieved sales of $27.4 billion in 2012, representing an increase of 6.4% over the prior year, with operational growth
of 8.7% and a negative currency impact of 2.3%. U.S. sales were $12.4 billion, an increase of 8.7% as compared to the prior year. International sales were $15.1 billion,
an increase of 4.5% over the prior year, with operational growth of 8.6% and a negative currency impact of 4.1%. The acquisition of Synthes, Inc., net of the related
divestiture, increased both total sales growth and operational growth for the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment by 7.9%.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 7Analysis of Consolidated Earnings Before Provision for Taxes on Income
Consolidated earnings before provision for taxes on income increased by $1.7 billion to $15.5 billion in 2013 as compared to $13.8 billion in 2012, an increase of
12.3%. Earnings before provision for taxes on income were favorable due to increased gross profit of $3.4 billion resulting from higher sales of higher margin products
and cost containment initiatives and a $0.4 billion net gain on equity investment transactions, primarily from the sale of Elan American Depositary Shares. This was
partially offset by higher litigation expenses of $1.1 billion and higher expenses of $0.1 billion related to the DePuy ASR™ Hip program. The fiscal year 2012 included
$1.5 billion of higher write-downs of intangible assets and in-process research and development and higher costs of $0.3 billion related to the Synthes acquisition
partially offset by higher gains of $0.8 billion related to divestitures.
The 2012 consolidated earnings before provision for taxes on income increased by $1.4 billion to $13.8 billion as compared to $12.4 billion in 2011, an increase of
11.4%. Earnings before provision for taxes on income were favorable due to increased gross profit of $0.9 billion, a $0.1 billion decrease in selling, marketing and
administrative expenses due to cost containment initiatives across many of the businesses, lower litigation expense of $2.1 billion and lower charges of $0.4 billion
related to the DePuy ASR™ Hip program versus the prior year. This was partially offset by $2.1 billion of charges attributable to asset write-downs and impairment of
in-process research and development, primarily related to the Crucell vaccine business and the discontinuation of the Phase III clinical development of bapineuzumab IV
and $0.2 billion of integration and currency costs related to the acquisition of Synthes, Inc. versus the prior year. Included in 2011 was a $0.6 billion restructuring
charge, net of inventory write-offs which are included in cost of products sold, related to the Cardiovascular Care business. Additionally, 2011 included higher gains
from divestitures and other items of $0.3 billion, recorded in other (income) expense, net.
As a percent to sales, consolidated earnings before provision for taxes on income in 2013 was 21.7% versus 20.5% in 2012.
Cost of Products Sold and Selling, Marketing and Administrative Expenses: Cost of products sold and selling, marketing and administrative expenses as a percent
to sales were as follows:
% of Sales 2013 2012 2011
Cost of products sold 31.3% 32.2 31.3
Percent point (decrease)/increase over the prior year (0.9) 0.9 0.8
Selling, marketing and administrative expenses 30.6% 31.0 32.3
Percent point (decrease)/increase over the prior year (0.4) (1.3) 0.8
In 2013, cost of products sold as a percent to sales decreased compared to the prior year. This was primarily the result of positive mix resulting from higher sales of
higher margin products, lower costs associated with strong volume growth in the Pharmaceutical business and cost reduction efforts across many of the businesses. The
decrease was partially offset by incremental intangible asset amortization expense primarily related to Synthes, the Medical Device Excise tax and increased amortization
expense as a result of the royalty buyout agreement with Vertex for INCIVO®. Intangible asset amortization expense for 2013 and 2012 was $1.4 billion and $1.1
billion, respectively. Additionally, 2012 included $0.2 billion higher amortization of the inventory step-up charge related to the Synthes, Inc. acquisition. There was a
decrease in the percent to sales of selling, marketing and administrative expenses in 2013 compared to the prior year primarily due to cost containment initiatives across
many of the businesses.
In 2012, cost of products sold as a percent to sales increased compared to the prior year. This was primarily the result of the amortization of the inventory step-up charge
of $0.4 billion and amortization of intangible assets related to the Synthes, Inc. acquisition of $0.3 billion and ongoing remediation costs in the McNeil OTC business.
There was a decrease in the percent to sales of selling, marketing and administrative expenses in 2012 compared to the prior year primarily due to cost containment
initiatives across many of the businesses. The prior year period included higher investment spending in the Pharmaceutical business for new products.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 8Research and Development Expense: Research and development expense by segment of business was as follows:
2013 2012 2011
(Dollars in Millions) Amount % of Sales* Amount % of Sales* Amount % of Sales*
Consumer $ 590 4.0% 622 4.3 659 4.4
Pharmaceutical 5,810 20.7 5,362 21.2 5,138 21.1
Medical Devices and Diagnostics 1,783 6.3 1,681 6.1 1,751 6.8
Total research and development expense $ 8,183 11.5% 7,665 11.4 7,548 11.6
Percent increase/(decrease) over the prior year 6.8% 1.6 10.3
* As a percent to segment sales
Research and development activities represent a significant part of the Company's business. These expenditures relate to the processes of discovering, testing and
developing new products, improving existing products, as well as ensuring product efficacy and regulatory compliance prior to launch. The Company remains committed
to investing in research and development with the aim of delivering high quality and innovative products. In 2013, worldwide costs of research and development
activities increased by 6.8% compared to 2012. The increase in the Pharmaceutical segment was primarily due to higher levels of spending to advance the Company's
Pharmaceutical pipeline. In 2012, worldwide costs of research and development activities increased by 1.6% compared to 2011. The 2012 decrease in the Medical
Devices and Diagnostics segment was primarily due to the discontinuation of the clinical development program for the NEVO™ Sirolimus-Eluting Coronary Stent.
In-Process Research and Development (IPR&D): In 2013, the Company recorded charges of $0.6 billion primarily for the impairment of various IPR&D projects
related to Crucell, Corimmun and Acclarent for the delay or discontinuation of certain development projects. In 2012, the Company recorded charges of $1.2 billion,
which included $0.7 billion for the impairment of the IPR&D related to the discontinuation of the Phase III clinical development of bapineuzumab IV and the partial
impairment of the IPR&D related to the Crucell vaccine business in the amount of $0.4 billion. Of the $0.7 billion impairment of the IPR&D related to the
discontinuation of the Phase III clinical development of bapineuzumab IV, $0.3 billion is attributable to noncontrolling interest. These charges relate to development
projects which have been recently discontinued or delayed.
Other (Income) Expense, Net: Other (income) expense, net includes royalty income; gains and losses related to the sale and write-down of certain investments in
equity securities held by Johnson & Johnson Development Corporation; gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment; currency gains and losses; and
litigation settlements. The change in other (income) expense, net for the fiscal year 2013, was an unfavorable change of $0.9 billion as compared to the prior year. The
fiscal year 2013 included a net gain of $0.4 billion on equity investment transactions, primarily the sale of Elan American Depositary Shares, offset by higher litigation
expenses of $1.1 billion, higher expenses of $0.1 billion related to the DePuy ASR™ Hip program and higher currency losses of $0.1 billion. The fiscal year 2012
included higher write-downs of intangible assets of $0.8 billion, primarily related to the Crucell vaccine business and higher costs of $0.1 billion related to the Synthes
acquisition. Additionally, 2012 included higher gains of $0.8 billion related to divestitures.
In 2012, the favorable change of $1.1 billion in other (income) expense, net, as compared to the prior year was primarily due to lower expenses of $2.1 billion related to
litigation, including product liability, and $0.4 billion for costs related to the DePuy ASR™ Hip program. This was partially offset by $0.9 billion attributed to asset
write-downs, primarily related to the Crucell vaccine business, and $0.2 billion of higher integration/transaction and currency costs related to the acquisition of Synthes,
Inc.
Restructuring: In 2011, Cordis Corporation, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, announced the discontinuation of its clinical development program for the NEVO™
Sirolimus-Eluting Coronary Stent and cessation of the manufacture and marketing of CYPHER® and CYPHER SELECT® Plus Sirolimus-Eluting Coronary Stents by the
end of 2011. The Company recorded a pre-tax charge of $0.7 billion, of which $0.1 billion was included in cost of products sold. There was no restructuring charge in
2012 and 2013.
Interest (Income) Expense: Interest income in 2013 increased by $10 million as compared to the prior year. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled
$29.2 billion at the end of 2013, and averaged $25.2 billion as compared to the $26.7 billion average cash balance in 2012. The increase in the year end cash balance
was due to cash generated from operating activities.
Interest expense in 2013 decreased by $50 million as compared to 2012 due to a lower average debt balance. The average debt balance was $17.2 billion in 2013
versus $17.9 billion in 2012. The total debt balance at the end of 2013 was $18.2 billion as compared to $16.2 billion at the end of 2012. The higher debt balance of
approximately $2.0 billion was due to increased
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 9borrowings in December 2013. The Company increased borrowings, capitalizing on favorable terms in the capital markets. The proceeds of the borrowings will be used
for general corporate purposes.
Interest income in 2012 decreased by $27 million as compared to the prior year due to lower rates of interest earned and lower average cash balances. Cash, cash
equivalents and marketable securities totaled $21.1 billion at the end of 2012, and averaged $26.7 billion as compared to the $30.0 billion average cash balance in 2011.
The decline in the average cash balance was due to the acquisition of Synthes, Inc. partially offset by cash generated from operating activities.
Interest expense in 2012 decreased by $39 million as compared to 2011 due to a lower average debt balance. The average debt balance was $17.9 billion in 2012
versus $18.2 billion in 2011. The total debt balance at the end of 2012 was $16.2 billion as compared to $19.6 billion at the end of 2011. The reduction in debt of
approximately $3.4 billion was primarily due to a reduction in commercial paper.
Segment Pre-Tax Profit
Pre-tax profits by segment of business were as follows:
Percent of Segment Sales
(Dollars in Millions) 2013 2012 2013 2012
Consumer $ 1,973 1,693 13.4% 11.7
Pharmaceutical 9,178 6,075 32.6 24.0
Medical Devices and Diagnostics 5,261 7,187 18.5 26.2
Total (1) 16,412 14,955 23.0 22.2
Less: Expenses not allocated to segments (2) 941 1,180
Earnings before provision for taxes on income $ 15,471 13,775 21.7% 20.5
(1) See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more details.
(2) Amounts not allocated to segments include interest (income) expense, noncontrolling interests, and general corporate (income) expense. A $0.2 billion currency
related expense for the acquisition of Synthes, Inc. was not allocated to segments in 2012.
Consumer Segment: In 2013, Consumer segment pre-tax profit as a percent to sales was 13.4% versus 11.7% in 2012. The favorable pre-tax profit was primarily due
to a gain of $55 million on the sale of intangible and other assets as well as cost containment initiatives. Included in 2012 were intangible asset write-downs of $0.3
billion. In addition, 2012 included higher gains on divestitures of $0.1 billion. In 2012, Consumer segment pre-tax profit as a percent to sales was 11.7% versus 14.1% in
2011. Pre-tax profit was unfavorably impacted by $0.3 billion attributed to intangible asset write-downs and approximately $0.3 billion due to unfavorable product mix
and remediation costs associated with the McNEIL-PPC, Inc. consent decree. This was partially offset by cost containment initiatives realized in selling, marketing and
administrative expenses. In addition, 2011 included higher gains on divestitures.
Pharmaceutical Segment: In 2013, Pharmaceutical segment pre-tax profit as a percent to sales was 32.6% versus 24.0% in 2012. The favorable pre-tax profit was
attributable to positive sales mix of higher margin products, lower costs associated with strong volume growth, a net gain of $0.4 billion on equity investment
transactions, primarily the sale of Elan American Depositary Shares, a positive adjustment of approximately $0.2 billion to previous estimates for Managed Medicaid
rebates and cost containment initiatives. This was partially offset by increased amortization expense as a result of the royalty buyout agreement with Vertex for
INCIVO®.Additionally, 2012 included higher net litigation expense of $0.4 billion and higher write-downs of intangible assets and in-process research and development
of $0.9 billion. This was partially offset by higher gains on divestitures of $0.3 billion. In 2012, Pharmaceutical segment pre-tax profit as a percent to sales was 24.0%
versus 26.3% in 2011. Pre-tax profit was unfavorably impacted by charges of $1.6 billion attributed to the write-down of assets and impairment of in-process research
and development assets, related to the Crucell vaccine business, and to the discontinuation of the Phase III clinical development of bapineuzumab IV. This was partially
offset by lower litigation expense of $1.1 billion versus the prior year and favorable operating expenses of $0.3 billion. Additionally, 2012 included the gain on the
divestiture of BYSTOLIC® (nebivolol) IP rights.
Medical Devices and Diagnostics Segment: In 2013, Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment pre-tax profit as a percent to sales was 18.5% versus 26.2% in 2012.
The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment pre-tax profit was unfavorably impacted by higher costs of $1.4 billion for litigation expense and $0.1 billion related to
the DePuy ASR™ Hip program as well as the Medical Device Excise tax. In addition, 2012 included higher gains of $0.4 billion on divestitures partially offset by
higher write-downs of intangible assets and in-process research and development of $0.1 billion and higher costs of $0.1 billion related to the Synthes acquisition. In
2012, Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment pre-tax profit as a percent to sales was 26.2% versus 20.4% in 2011. The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment
pre-tax profit was favorably impacted by profits
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 10from Synthes sales, lower expenses of $1.4 billion for litigation and the DePuy ASR™ Hip program and $0.1 billion for research & development primarily due to the
discontinuation of its clinical development program for the NEVO™ Sirolimus-Eluting Coronary Stent. This was partially offset by an increase in integration costs and
amortization of the inventory step-up of $0.8 billion associated with the acquisition of Synthes, Inc. and $0.1 billion attributed to the write-down of intangible assets. In
addition, 2012 included higher gains on divestitures versus the prior year due to the divestitures of the Therakos business and RhoGAM®. Included in 2011 was a $0.7
billion restructuring charge related to the discontinuation of the clinical development program for the NEVO™ Sirolimus-Eluting Coronary Stent.
Provision for Taxes on Income: The worldwide effective income tax rate was 10.6% in 2013, 23.7% in 2012 and 21.8% in 2011. The decrease in the 2013 effective
tax rate of 13.1% as compared to 2012 was attributable to a tax benefit associated with the write-off of assets for tax purposes associated with Scios Inc., increased
taxable income in lower tax jurisdictions relative to higher tax jurisdictions and the inclusion of two years of benefit of the U.S. Research and Development (R&D) tax
credit and the Controlled Foreign Corporation (CFC) look-through provisions. The R&D tax credit and the CFC look-through provisions were enacted into law in
January 2013 and were retroactive to January 1, 2012.
During 2013, the Company reached a settlement agreement related to certain issues regarding the U.S. Internal Revenue Service audit related to tax years
2006-2009. As a result of this settlement, the Company adjusted the unrecognized tax benefits relating to these matters which lowered tax expense. In addition, the
Company recorded additional U.S. tax expense related to increased dividends of foreign earnings. The above items resulted in a net gain of $180 million. Also included
in 2013 results were incremental tax expenses associated with the establishment of a valuation allowance of $187 million related to the Company's Belgian foreign
affiliate. The above items had no net impact on the effective income tax rate for the fiscal year ended 2013.
The increase in the 2012 effective tax rate of 1.9% as compared to 2011 was due to lower tax benefits on the impairment of in-process research and development
intangible assets in low tax jurisdictions, increases in taxable income in higher tax jurisdictions relative to lower tax jurisdictions and the exclusion of the benefit of the
U.S. R&D tax credit and the CFC look-through provisions from the 2012 fiscal year financial results.
Noncontrolling Interest: A charge of $0.7 billion for the impairment of the IPR&D related to the discontinuation of the Phase III clinical development of bapineuzumab
IV was recorded in 2012. Of the $0.7 billion impairment, $0.3 billion was attributable to noncontrolling interest.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Liquidity & Cash Flows
Cash and cash equivalents were $20.9 billion at the end of 2013 as compared with $14.9 billion at the end of 2012. The primary sources of cash that contributed to the
$6.0 billion increase versus the prior year were approximately $17.4 billion of cash generated from operating activities partially offset by $5.1 billion net cash used by
investing activities and $6.1 billion net cash used by financing activities.
Cash flow from operations of $17.4 billion was the result of $13.8 billion of net earnings and $4.5 billion of non-cash charges and other adjustments related to
depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, the Venezuela currency devaluation, asset write-downs (primarily in-process research and development), net
gain on equity investment transactions and deferred tax provision reduced by $0.9 billion related to changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from acquisitions.
Investing activities use of $5.1 billion was primarily for net purchases of investments in marketable securities of $0.9 billion, additions to property, plant and
equipment of $3.6 billion, acquisitions, net of cash acquired of $0.8 billion and other, primarily intangibles of $0.3 billion partially offset by $0.5 billion of proceeds
from the disposal of assets.
Financing activities use of $6.1 billion was primarily for dividends to shareholders of $7.3 billion and $3.5 billion for the repurchase of common stock, of which
$2.9 billion was used to settle the accelerated share repurchase (ASR) agreements in connection with the Synthes transaction. Financing activities also included a source
of $2.0 billion from net proceeds of short and long-term debt and $2.7 billion of net proceeds from stock options exercised and associated tax benefits.
In 2013, the Company continued to have access to liquidity through the commercial paper market. For additional details on borrowings, see Note 7 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company anticipates that operating cash flows, existing credit facilities and access to the commercial paper markets will provide sufficient resources to fund
operating needs in 2014.
Concentration of Credit Risk
Global concentration of credit risk with respect to trade accounts receivables continues to be limited due to the large number of customers globally and adherence to
internal credit policies and credit limits. Economic challenges in Italy, Spain, Greece and Portugal (the Southern European Region) have impacted certain payment
patterns, which have historically been longer than those experienced in the U.S. and other international markets. The total net trade accounts receivable balance in the
Southern European Region was approximately $2.3 billion as of December 29, 2013 and $2.1 billion as of December 30, 2012. Approximately $1.3 billion as of
December 29, 2013 and approximately $1.2 billion as of December 30, 2012 of the Southern
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 11European Region net trade accounts receivable balance related to the Company's Consumer, Vision Care and Diabetes Care businesses as well as certain Pharmaceutical
and Medical Devices and Diagnostics customers which are in line with historical collection patterns.
The remaining balance of net trade accounts receivable in the Southern European Region has been negatively impacted by the timing of payments from certain
government owned or supported health care customers as well as certain distributors of the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics local affiliates. The
total net trade accounts receivable balance for these customers were approximately $1.0 billion at December 29, 2013 and $0.9 billion at December 30, 2012. The
Company continues to receive payments from these customers and in some cases late payment premiums. For customers where payment is expected over periods of time
longer than one year, revenue and trade receivables have been discounted over the estimated period of time for collection. Allowances for doubtful accounts have been
increased for these customers, but have been immaterial to date. The Company will continue to work closely with these customers on payment plans, monitor the
economic situation and take appropriate actions as necessary.
Financing and Market Risk
The Company uses financial instruments to manage the impact of foreign exchange rate changes on cash flows. Accordingly, the Company enters into forward foreign
exchange contracts to protect the value of certain foreign currency assets and liabilities and to hedge future foreign currency transactions primarily related to product
costs. Gains or losses on these contracts are offset by the gains or losses on the underlying transactions. A 10% appreciation of the U.S. Dollar from the December 29,
2013 market rates would increase the unrealized value of the Company’s forward contracts by $46 million. Conversely, a 10% depreciation of the U.S. Dollar from the
December 29, 2013 market rates would decrease the unrealized value of the Company’s forward contracts by $56 million. In either scenario, the gain or loss on the
forward contract would be offset by the gain or loss on the underlying transaction, and therefore, would have no impact on future anticipated earnings and cash flows.
The Company hedges the exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, and the effect on certain assets and liabilities in foreign currency, by entering into
currency swap contracts. A 1% change in the spread between U.S. and foreign interest rates on the Company’s interest rate sensitive financial instruments would either
increase or decrease the unrealized value of the Company’s swap contracts by approximately $163 million. In either scenario, at maturity, the gain or loss on the swap
contract would be offset by the gain or loss on the underlying transaction, and therefore, would have no impact on future anticipated cash flows.
The Company does not enter into financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Further, the Company has a policy of only entering into contracts with
parties that have at least an "A" (or equivalent) credit rating. The counter-parties to these contracts are major financial institutions and there is no significant
concentration of exposure with any one counter-party. Management believes the risk of loss is remote.
The Company has access to substantial sources of funds at numerous banks worldwide. In September 2013, the Company secured a new 364-day Credit Facility.
Total credit available to the Company approximates $10 billion, which expires on September 18, 2014. Interest charged on borrowings under the credit line agreement is
based on either bids provided by banks, the prime rate or London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR), plus applicable margins. Commitment fees under the agreement are
not material.
Total borrowings at the end of 2013 and 2012 were $18.2 billion and $16.2 billion, respectively. The increase in borrowings between 2013 and 2012 was a result of
financing for general corporate purposes. In 2013, net cash (cash and current marketable securities, net of debt) was $11.0 billion compared to net cash of $4.9 billion in
2012. Total debt represented 19.7% of total capital (shareholders’ equity and total debt) in 2013 and 20.0% of total capital in 2012. Shareholders’ equity per share at the
end of 2013 was $26.25 compared to $23.33 at year-end 2012, an increase of 12.5%.
A summary of borrowings can be found in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 12Contractual Obligations and Commitments
The Company’s contractual obligations are primarily for leases, debt and unfunded retirement plans. There are no other significant obligations. To satisfy these
obligations, the Company will use cash from operations. The following table summarizes the Company’s contractual obligations and their aggregate maturities as of
December 29, 2013 (see Notes 7, 10 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details):
Long-Term Interest on Unfunded
(Dollars in Millions) Debt Obligations Debt Obligations Retirement Plans Operating Leases Total
2014 $ 1,769 568 74 286 2,697
2015 76 562 73 238 949
2016 2,096 556 78 186 2,916
2017 1,007 516 95 110 1,728
2018 1,526 460 89 85 2,160
After 2018 8,623 4,938 524 87 14,172
Total $ 15,097 7,600 933 992 24,622
For tax matters, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Dividends
The Company increased its dividend in 2013 for the 51st consecutive year. Cash dividends paid were $2.59 per share in 2013 compared with dividends of $2.40 per
share in 2012, and $2.25 per share in 2011. The dividends were distributed as follows:
2013 2012 2011
First quarter $ 0.61 $ 0.57 0.54
Second quarter 0.66 0.61 0.57
Third quarter 0.66 0.61 0.57
Fourth quarter 0.66 0.61 0.57
Total $ 2.59 $ 2.40 2.25
On January 2, 2014, the Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.66 per share, payable on March 11, 2014, to shareholders of record as of
February 25, 2014. The Company expects to continue the practice of paying regular cash dividends.
Other Information
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Management’s discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition are based on the Company’s consolidated financial statements that have been
prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). The preparation of these financial statements requires that management make
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and other related disclosures. Actual results may or may not differ
from these estimates. The Company believes that the understanding of certain key accounting policies and estimates are essential in achieving more insight into the
Company’s operating results and financial condition. These key accounting policies include revenue recognition, income taxes, legal and self-insurance contingencies,
valuation of long-lived assets, assumptions used to determine the amounts recorded for pensions and other employee benefit plans and accounting for stock options.
Revenue Recognition: The Company recognizes revenue from product sales when goods are shipped or delivered, and title and risk of loss pass to the customer.
Provisions for certain rebates, sales incentives, trade promotions, coupons, product returns and discounts to customers are accounted for as reductions in sales in the
same period the related sales are recorded.
Product discounts granted are based on the terms of arrangements with direct, indirect and other market participants, as well as market conditions, including prices
charged by competitors. Rebates, the largest being the Medicaid rebate provision, are estimated based on contractual terms, historical experience, trend analysis and
projected market conditions in the various markets served. The Company evaluates market conditions for products or groups of products primarily through the analysis
of wholesaler and other third-party sell-through and market research data, as well as internally generated information.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 13Sales returns are generally estimated and recorded based on historical sales and returns information. Products that exhibit unusual sales or return patterns due to dating,
competition or other marketing matters are specifically investigated and analyzed as part of the accounting for sales return accruals.
Sales returns allowances represent a reserve for products that may be returned due to expiration, destruction in the field, or in specific areas, product recall. The
returns reserve is based on historical return trends by product and by market as a percent to gross sales. In accordance with the Company’s accounting policies, the
Company generally issues credit to customers for returned goods. The Company’s sales returns reserves are accounted for in accordance with the U.S. GAAP guidance
for revenue recognition when right of return exists. Sales returns reserves are recorded at full sales value. Sales returns in the Consumer and Pharmaceutical segments
are almost exclusively not resalable. Sales returns for certain franchises in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment are typically resalable but are not material. The
Company rarely exchanges products from inventory for returned products. The sales returns reserve for the total Company has been approximately 1.0% of annual net
trade sales during the fiscal reporting years 2013, 2012 and 2011.
Promotional programs, such as product listing allowances and cooperative advertising arrangements, are recorded in the year incurred. Continuing promotional
programs include coupons and volume-based sales incentive programs. The redemption cost of consumer coupons is based on historical redemption experience by
product and value. Volume-based incentive programs are based on estimated sales volumes for the incentive period and are recorded as products are sold. The Company
also earns service revenue for co-promotion of certain products. For all years presented, service revenues were less than 2% of total revenues and are included in sales to
customers. These arrangements are evaluated to determine the appropriate amounts to be deferred.
In addition, the Company enters into collaboration arrangements that contain multiple revenue generating activities. Amounts due from collaborative partners for
these arrangements are recognized as each activity is performed or delivered, based on the relative fair value. Upfront fees received as part of these arrangements are
deferred and recognized over the performance period. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional disclosures on collaborations.
Reasonably likely changes to assumptions used to calculate the accruals for rebates, returns and promotions are not anticipated to have a material effect on the
financial statements. The Company currently discloses the impact of changes to assumptions in the quarterly or annual filing in which there is a material financial
statement impact.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 14Below are tables that show the progression of accrued rebates, returns, promotions, reserve for doubtful accounts and reserve for cash discounts by segment of
business for the fiscal years ended December 29, 2013 and December 30, 2012.
Consumer Segment
Balance at Balance at
(Dollars in Millions) Beginning of Period Accruals Payments/Credits End of Period
2013
Accrued rebates (1) $ 132 524 (519) 137
Accrued returns 108 94 (122) 80
Accrued promotions 281 1,478 (1,438) 321
Subtotal $ 521 2,096 (2,079) 538
Reserve for doubtful accounts 38 8 (21) 25
Reserve for cash discounts 21 232 (229) 24
Total $ 580 2,336 (2,329) 587
2012
Accrued rebates(1) $ 127 438 (433) 132
Accrued returns 114 131 (137) 108
Accrued promotions 240 1,392 (1,351) 281
Subtotal $ 481 1,961 (1,921) 521
Reserve for doubtful accounts 43 6 (11) 38
Reserve for cash discounts 22 214 (215) 21
Total $ 546 2,181 (2,147) 580
(1) Includes reserve for customer rebates of $32 million at December 29, 2013 and $33 million at December 30, 2012, recorded as a contra asset.
Pharmaceutical Segment
Balance at Balance at
(Dollars in Millions) Beginning of Period Accruals Payments/Credits End of Period
2013
Accrued rebates (1) $ 1,767 5,774 (5,556) 1,985
Accrued returns 397 30 (55) 372
Accrued promotions 94 89 (87) 96
Subtotal $ 2,258 5,893 (5,698) 2,453
Reserve for doubtful accounts 191 26 (122) 95
Reserve for cash discounts 62 471 (472) 61
Total $ 2,511 6,390 (6,292) 2,609
2012
Accrued rebates (1) $ 1,591 4,732 (4,556) 1,767
Accrued returns 384 49 (36) 397
Accrued promotions 83 142 (131) 94
Subtotal $ 2,058 4,923 (4,723) 2,258
Reserve for doubtful accounts 157 47 (13) 191
Reserve for cash discounts 45 425 (408) 62
Total $ 2,260 5,395 (5,144) 2,511
(1) Includes reserve for customer rebates of $295 million at December 29, 2013 and $269 million at December 30, 2012, recorded as a contra asset.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 15Medical Devices and Diagnostics Segment
Balance at Balance at
(Dollars in Millions) Beginning of Period Accruals Payments/Credits End of Period
2013
Accrued rebates(1) $ 567 4,261 (4,027) 801
Accrued returns 205 356 (381) 180
Accrued promotions 60 52 (46) 66
Subtotal $ 832 4,669 (4,454) 1,047
Reserve for doubtful accounts 237 19 (43) 213
Reserve for cash discounts 22 394 (398) 18
Total $ 1,091 5,082 (4,895) 1,278
2012
Accrued rebates(1) $ 497 3,803 (3,733) 567
Accrued returns 184 369 (348) 205
Accrued promotions 73 49 (62) 60
Subtotal $ 754 4,221 (4,143) 832
Reserve for doubtful accounts 161 74 2 237
Reserve for cash discounts 32 371 (381) 22
Total $ 947 4,666 (4,522) 1,091
(1) Includes reserve for customer rebates of $403 million at December 29, 2013 and $340 million at December 30, 2012, recorded as a contra asset.
Income Taxes: Income taxes are recorded based on amounts refundable or payable for the current year and include the results of any difference between U.S. GAAP
accounting and tax reporting, recorded as deferred tax assets or liabilities. The Company estimates deferred tax assets and liabilities based on current tax regulations and
rates. Changes in tax laws and rates may affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future.
The Company has unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions. The Company follows U.S. GAAP which prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement
attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Management believes that changes in
these estimates would not have a material effect on the Company's results of operations, cash flows or financial position.
At December 29, 2013 and December 30, 2012, the cumulative amounts of undistributed international earnings were approximately $50.9 billion and $49.0 billion,
respectively. At December 29, 2013 and December 30, 2012, the Company's foreign subsidiaries held balances of cash and cash equivalents in the amounts of $18.6
billion and $14.8 billion, respectively. The Company has not provided deferred taxes on the undistributed earnings from certain international subsidiaries where the
earnings are considered to be permanently reinvested. The Company intends to continue to reinvest these earnings in international operations. If the Company decided at
a later date to repatriate these earnings to the U.S., the Company would be required to provide for the net tax effects on these amounts. The Company does not
determine the deferred tax liability associated with these undistributed earnings, as such determination is not practical.
See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes.
Legal and Self Insurance Contingencies: The Company records accruals for various contingencies including legal proceedings and product liability claims as these
arise in the normal course of business. The accruals are based on management’s judgment as to the probability of losses and, where applicable, actuarially determined
estimates. The Company has self insurance through a wholly-owned captive insurance company. In addition to accruals in the self insurance program, claims that exceed
the insurance coverage are accrued when losses are probable and amounts can be reasonably estimated. Additionally, the Company records insurance receivable amounts
from third-party insurers when recovery is probable. As appropriate, reserves against these receivables are recorded for estimated amounts that may not be collected
from third-party insurers.
The Company follows the provisions of U.S. GAAP when recording litigation related contingencies. A liability is recorded when a loss is probable and can be
reasonably estimated. The best estimate of a loss within a range is accrued; however, if no estimate in the range is better than any other, the minimum amount is
accrued.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 16Long-Lived and Intangible Assets: The Company assesses changes in economic conditions and makes assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows in evaluating
the value of the Company’s property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets. As these assumptions and estimates may change over time, it may or may not
be necessary for the Company to record impairment charges.
Employee Benefit Plans: The Company sponsors various retirement and pension plans, including defined benefit, defined contribution and termination indemnity plans,
which cover most employees worldwide. These plans are based on assumptions for the discount rate, expected return on plan assets, expected salary increases and health
care cost trend rates. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on these rates and the effect a rate change would have on the Company’s
results of operations.
Stock Based Compensation: The Company recognizes compensation expense associated with the issuance of equity instruments to employees for their services. The
fair value of each award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option valuation model and is expensed in the financial statements over the vesting
period. The input assumptions used in determining fair value are the expected life, expected volatility, risk-free rate and the dividend yield. See Note 17 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
New Accounting Pronouncements
Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet
adopted as of December 29, 2013.
Economic and Market Factors
The Company is aware that its products are used in an environment where, for more than a decade, policymakers, consumers and businesses have expressed concerns
about the rising cost of health care. In response to these concerns, the Company has a long-standing policy of pricing products responsibly. For the period 2003 - 2013,
in the United States, the weighted average compound annual growth rate of the Company’s net price increases for health care products (prescription and over-the-counter
drugs, hospital and professional products) was below the U.S. Consumer Price Index (CPI).
Inflation rates continue to have an effect on worldwide economies and, consequently, on the way companies operate. The Company has accounted for operations in
Venezuela as highly inflationary in 2011, 2012 and 2013, as the prior three-year cumulative inflation rate surpassed 100%. In the face of increasing costs, the Company
strives to maintain its profit margins through cost reduction programs, productivity improvements and periodic price increases.
The Company is exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. A 1% change in the value of the U.S. Dollar as compared to all foreign currencies in which the
Company had sales, income or expense in 2013 would have increased or decreased the translation of foreign sales by approximately $385 million and income by
$80 million.
The Company faces various worldwide health care changes that may continue to result in pricing pressures that include health care cost containment and
government legislation relating to sales, promotions and reimbursement of health care products.
Changes in the behavior and spending patterns of purchasers of health care products and services, including delaying medical procedures, rationing prescription
medications, reducing the frequency of physician visits and foregoing health care insurance coverage, as a result of the current global economic downturn, may continue
to impact the Company’s businesses.
The Company also operates in an environment which has become increasingly hostile to intellectual property rights. Generic drug firms have filed Abbreviated New
Drug Applications (ANDAs) seeking to market generic forms of most of the Company’s key pharmaceutical products, prior to expiration of the applicable patents
covering those products. In the event the Company is not successful in defending the patent claims challenged in ANDA filings, the generic firms will then introduce
generic versions of the product at issue, resulting in the potential for substantial market share and revenue losses for that product. For further information, see the
discussion on “Litigation Against Filers of Abbreviated New Drug Applications” in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 17Legal Proceedings
Johnson & Johnson and certain of its subsidiaries are involved in various lawsuits and claims regarding product liability, intellectual property, commercial and other
matters; governmental investigations; and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of business.
The Company records accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The
Company has accrued for certain litigation matters and continues to monitor each related legal issue and adjust accruals for new information and further developments in
accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 450-20-25. For these and other litigation and regulatory matters currently disclosed for which a loss is
probable or reasonably possible, the Company is unable to determine an estimate of the possible loss or range of loss beyond the amounts already accrued. These matters
can be affected by various factors, including whether damages sought in the proceedings are unsubstantiated or indeterminate; scientific and legal discovery has not
commenced or is not complete; proceedings are in early stages; matters present legal uncertainties; there are significant facts in dispute; or there are numerous parties
involved.
In the Company's opinion, based on its examination of these matters, its experience to date and discussions with counsel, the ultimate outcome of legal proceedings,
net of liabilities accrued in the Company's balance sheet, is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position. However, the resolution
in any reporting period of one or more of these matters, either alone or in the aggregate, may have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and
cash flows for that period.
See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding legal proceedings.
Common Stock Market Prices
The Company’s Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol JNJ. As of February 18, 2014, there were 165,304 record holders of
Common Stock of the Company. The composite market price ranges for Johnson & Johnson Common Stock during 2013 and 2012 were:
2013 2012
High Low High Low
First quarter $ 81.59 69.18 66.32 64.02
Second quarter 89.99 80.31 67.70 61.71
Third quarter 94.42 85.50 69.75 66.85
Fourth quarter 95.99 85.50 72.74 67.80
Year-end close $92.35 69.48
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 18Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results
This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and anticipate results based on
management’s plans that are subject to uncertainty. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of words such as “plans,” “expects,” “will,” “anticipates,”
“estimates” and other words of similar meaning in conjunction with, among other things, discussions of future operations, financial performance, the Company’s strategy
for growth, product development, regulatory approval, market position and expenditures.
Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations of future events. The Company cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be accurate,
although the Company believes that it has been reasonable in its expectations and assumptions. Investors should realize that if underlying assumptions prove inaccurate
or that unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the Company’s expectations and projections. Investors are therefore
cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. The Company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new
information or future events or developments.
Risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, general industry conditions and competition; economic factors, such as interest rate and currency exchange
rate fluctuations; technological advances, new products and patents attained by competitors; challenges inherent in new product development, including obtaining
regulatory approvals; challenges to patents; significant litigation or government action adverse to the Company; impact of business combinations; financial distress and
bankruptcies experienced by significant customers and suppliers; changes to governmental laws and regulations and U.S. and foreign health care reforms; trends toward
health care cost containment; increased scrutiny of the health care industry by government agencies; changes in behavior and spending patterns of purchasers of health
care products and services; financial instability of international economies and sovereign risk; disruptions due to natural disasters; manufacturing difficulties or delays;
complex global supply chains with increasing regulatory requirements; and product efficacy or safety concerns resulting in product recalls or regulatory action.
The Company’s report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2013 includes, in Exhibit 99, a discussion of additional factors that could cause actual results
to differ from expectations. The Company notes these factors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 19JOHNSON & JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
At December 29, 2013 and December 30, 2012
(Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) (Note 1)
2013 2012
Assets
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents (Notes 1 and 2) $ 20,927 14,911
Marketable securities (Notes 1 and 2) 8,279 6,178
Accounts receivable trade, less allowances for doubtful accounts $333 (2012, $466) 11,713 11,309
Inventories (Notes 1 and 3) 7,878 7,495
Deferred taxes on income (Note 8) 3,607 3,139
Prepaid expenses and other receivables 4,003 3,084
Total current assets 56,407 46,116
Property, plant and equipment, net (Notes 1 and 4) 16,710 16,097
Intangible assets, net (Notes 1 and 5) 27,947 28,752
Goodwill (Notes 1 and 5) 22,798 22,424
Deferred taxes on income (Note 8) 3,872 4,541
Other assets 4,949 3,417
Total assets $ 132,683 121,347
Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity
Current liabilities
Loans and notes payable (Note 7) $ 4,852 4,676
Accounts payable 6,266 5,831
Accrued liabilities 7,685 7,299
Accrued rebates, returns and promotions 3,308 2,969
Accrued compensation and employee related obligations 2,794 2,423
Accrued taxes on income 770 1,064
Total current liabilities 25,675 24,262
Long-term debt (Note 7) 13,328 11,489
Deferred taxes on income (Note 8) 3,989 3,136
Employee related obligations (Notes 9 and 10) 7,784 9,082
Other liabilities 7,854 8,552
Total liabilities 58,630 56,521
Shareholders’ equity
Preferred stock — without par value (authorized and unissued 2,000,000 shares) — —
Common stock — par value $1.00 per share (Note 12) (authorized 4,320,000,000 shares; issued 3,119,843,000 shares) 3,120 3,120
Accumulated other comprehensive income (Note 13) (2,860) (5,810)
Retained earnings 89,493 85,992
89,753 83,302
Less: common stock held in treasury, at cost (Note 12) (299,215,000 shares and 341,354,000 shares) 15,700 18,476
Total shareholders’ equity 74,053 64,826
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $ 132,683 121,347
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 20JOHNSON & JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
(Dollars and Shares in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) (Note 1)
2013 2012 2011
Sales to customers $ 71,312 67,224 65,030
Cost of products sold 22,342 21,658 20,360
Gross profit 48,970 45,566 44,670
Selling, marketing and administrative expenses 21,830 20,869 20,969
Research and development expense 8,183 7,665 7,548
In-process research and development 580 1,163 —
Interest income (74) (64) (91)
Interest expense, net of portion capitalized (Note 4) 482 532 571
Other (income) expense, net 2,498 1,626 2,743
Restructuring (Note 22) — — 569
Earnings before provision for taxes on income 15,471 13,775 12,361
Provision for taxes on income (Note 8) 1,640 3,261 2,689
Net earnings 13,831 10,514 9,672
Add: Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest — 339 —
Net earnings attributable to Johnson & Johnson $ 13,831 10,853 9,672
Net earnings per share attributable to Johnson & Johnson (Notes 1 and 15)
Basic $ 4.92 3.94 3.54
Diluted $ 4.81 3.86 3.49
Cash dividends per share $ 2.59 2.40 2.25
Average shares outstanding (Notes 1 and 15)
Basic 2,809.2 2,753.3 2,736.0
Diluted 2,877.0 2,812.6 2,775.3
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 21JOHNSON & JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(Dollars in Millions) (Note 1)
2013 2012 2011
Net Earnings $ 13,831 10,514 9,672
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), net of tax
Foreign currency translation 94 1,230 (557)
Securities:
Unrealized holding gain (loss) arising during period 225 (248) 565
Reclassifications to earnings (314) (5) (141)
Net change (89) (253) 424
Employee benefit plans:
Prior service cost amortization during period 9 2 5
Prior service cost - current year (27) (8) 15
Gain amortization during period 515 370 246
Gain (loss) - current year 2,203 (1,643) (1,984)
Effect of exchange rates 8 (52) 18
Net change 2,708 (1,331) (1,700)
Derivatives & hedges:
Unrealized gain (loss) arising during period 344 52 (500)
Reclassifications to earnings (107) 124 232
Net change 237 176 (268)
Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 2,950 (178) (2,101)
Comprehensive Income $ 16,781 10,336 7,571
Comprehensive Loss Attributable To Noncontrolling Interest, net of tax — 339 —
Comprehensive Income Attributable To Johnson & Johnson $ 16,781 10,675 7,571
The tax effects in other comprehensive income for the fiscal years ended 2013, 2012 and 2011 respectively: Securities; $48 million, $136 million and $228 million,
Employee Benefit Plans; $1,421 million $653 million and $915 million, Derivatives & Hedges; $128 million, $95 million and $144 million.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 22JOHNSON & JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY
(Dollars in Millions) (Note 1)
Accumulated
Other Treasury
Retained Comprehensive Common Stock Stock
Total Earnings Income Issued Amount Amount
Balance, January 2, 2011 $ 56,579 77,773 (3,531) 3,120 (20,783)
Net earnings attributable to Johnson & Johnson 9,672 9,672
Cash dividends paid (6,156) (6,156)
Employee compensation and stock option plans 1,760 111 1,649
Repurchase of common stock (2,525) (2,525)
Other (149) (149)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax (2,101) (2,101)
Balance, January 1, 2012 $ 57,080 81,251 (5,632) 3,120 (21,659)
Net earnings attributable to Johnson & Johnson 10,853 10,853
Cash dividends paid (6,614) (6,614)
Employee compensation and stock option plans 3,269 19 3,250
Issuance of common stock associated with the acquisition of
Synthes, Inc. 13,335 483 12,852
Repurchase of common stock(1) (12,919) (12,919)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax (178) (178)
Balance, December 30, 2012 $ 64,826 85,992 (5,810) 3,120 (18,476)
Net earnings attributable to Johnson & Johnson 13,831 13,831
Cash dividends paid (7,286) (7,286)
Employee compensation and stock option plans 3,285 (82) 3,367
Repurchase of common stock (3,538) (2,947) (591)
Other (15) (15)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax 2,950 2,950
Balance, December 29, 2013 $ 74,053 89,493 (2,860) 3,120 (15,700)
(1) Includes repurchase of common stock associated with the acquisition of Synthes, Inc.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 23JOHNSON & JOHNSON AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(Dollars in Millions) (Note 1)
2013 2012 2011
Cash flows from operating activities
Net earnings $ 13,831 10,514 9,672
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to cash flows from operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization of property and intangibles 4,104 3,666 3,158
Stock based compensation 728 662 621
Noncontrolling interest — 339 —
Venezuela currency devaluation 108 — —
Asset write-downs 739 2,131 160
Net gain on equity investment transactions (417) — —
Deferred tax provision (607) (39) (836)
Accounts receivable allowances (131) 92 32
Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from acquisitions:
Increase in accounts receivable (632) (9) (915)
Increase in inventories (622) (1) (715)
Increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities 1,821 2,768 493
Increase in other current and non-current assets (1,806) (2,172) (1,785)
Increase/(decrease) in other current and non-current liabilities 298 (2,555) 4,413
Net cash flows from operating activities 17,414 15,396 14,298
Cash flows from investing activities
Additions to property, plant and equipment (3,595) (2,934) (2,893)
Proceeds from the disposal of assets 458 1,509 1,342
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired (Note 20) (835) (4,486) (2,797)
Purchases of investments (18,923) (13,434) (29,882)
Sales of investments 18,058 14,797 30,396
Other (primarily intangibles) (266) 38 (778)
Net cash used by investing activities (5,103) (4,510) (4,612)
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends to shareholders (7,286) (6,614) (6,156)
Repurchase of common stock (3,538) (12,919) (2,525)
Proceeds from short-term debt 1,411 3,268 9,729
Retirement of short-term debt (1,397) (6,175) (11,200)
Proceeds from long-term debt 3,607 45 4,470
Retirement of long-term debt (1,593) (804) (16)
Proceeds from the exercise of stock options/excess tax benefits 2,649 2,720 1,246
Other 56 (83) —
Net cash used by financing activities (6,091) (20,562) (4,452)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (204) 45 (47)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 6,016 (9,631) 5,187
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year (Note 1) 14,911 24,542 19,355
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year (Note 1) $ 20,927 14,911 24,542
Supplemental cash flow data
Cash paid during the year for:
Interest $ 596 616 576
Interest, net of amount capitalized 491 501 492
Income taxes 3,155 2,507 2,970
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 24Supplemental schedule of non-cash investing and financing activities
Issuance of common stock associated with the acquisition of Synthes, Inc. — 13,335 —
Treasury stock issued for employee compensation and stock option plans, net of cash proceeds 743 615 433
Conversion of debt 22 — 1
Acquisitions
Fair value of assets acquired $ 1,028 19,025 3,025
Fair value of liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests (193) (1,204) (228)
Net fair value of acquisitions $ 835 17,821 2,797
Less: Issuance of common stock associated with the acquisition of Synthes, Inc. — 13,335 —
Net cash paid for acquisitions $ 835 4,486 2,797
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 25NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries (the Company). Intercompany accounts and transactions are
eliminated.
Description of the Company And Business Segments
The Company has approximately 128,100 employees worldwide engaged in the research and development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of products in the
health care field. The Company conducts business in virtually all countries of the world and its primary focus is on products related to human health and well-being.
The Company is organized into three business segments: Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics. The Consumer segment includes a broad
range of products used in the baby care, skin care, oral care, wound care and women’s health fields, as well as nutritionals, over-the-counter pharmaceutical products and
wellness and prevention platforms. These products are marketed to the general public and sold both to retail outlets and distributors throughout the world. The
Pharmaceutical segment includes products in the following areas: anti-infective, antipsychotic, contraceptive, gastrointestinal, hematology, immunology, infectious
diseases, neurology, oncology, pain management, thrombosis and vaccines. These products are distributed directly to retailers, wholesalers and health care professionals
for prescription use. The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment includes a broad range of products distributed to wholesalers, hospitals and retailers, used principally
in the professional fields by physicians, nurses, hospitals and clinics. These include products to treat cardiovascular disease; orthopaedic and neurological products; blood
glucose monitoring and insulin delivery products; general surgery, biosurgical, and energy products; professional diagnostic products; infection prevention products; and
disposable contact lenses.
New Accounting Pronouncements
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
During the fiscal first quarter of 2013, the Company adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) guidance and amendments related to testing
indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment. Under the amendments in this update, an entity has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the
existence of events or circumstances indicates that it is more likely than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. If, after assessing the totality of events
and circumstances, an entity concludes that it is not more likely than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, then the entity is not required to determine
the fair value. However, if an entity concludes otherwise, then it is required to determine the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset and perform the
quantitative impairment test. An entity also has the option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any indefinite-lived intangible asset in any period and proceed directly
to performing the quantitative impairment test. This update became effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after
September 15, 2012. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position.
During the fiscal first quarter of 2013, the Company adopted the FASB guidance related to additional reporting and disclosure of amounts reclassified out of
accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI). Under this new guidance, companies are required to disclose the effect of significant reclassifications out of AOCI on
the respective line items on the income statement if the amount being reclassified is required under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) to be
reclassified in its entirety to net income. For other amounts that are not required under GAAP to be reclassified in their entirety to net income in the same reporting
period, an entity is required to cross-reference other disclosures required under GAAP that provide additional details about those amounts. This update became effective
for annual and interim reporting periods for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2012. The Company has disclosed the reclassification details in Note 13 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
Not Adopted as of December 29, 2013
During the fiscal first quarter of 2013, the FASB issued amended guidance clarifying the release of accumulated Foreign Currency Translation from other comprehensive
income (OCI) into current year Net Earnings. The amendment requires that when the parent company ceases to have a controlling interest in a subsidiary or a business
within a foreign entity the parent is to release accumulated Foreign Currency Translation from OCI. This update is required to be adopted for all annual periods and
interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2013, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on
the Company's results of operations, cash flows or financial position.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 26During the fiscal third quarter of 2013, the FASB issued clarifying guidance on the presentation of unrecognized tax benefits when various qualifying tax credits exist.
The amendment requires that unrecognized tax benefits be presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as a reduction to deferred tax assets created by net operating
losses or other tax credits from prior periods that occur in the same taxing jurisdiction. To the extent that the unrecognized tax benefit exceeds these credits, it shall be
presented as a liability. This update is required to be adopted for all annual periods and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2013, with early adoption
permitted. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the presentation of the Company's financial position.
Cash Equivalents
The Company classifies all highly liquid investments with stated maturities of three months or less from date of purchase as cash equivalents and all highly liquid
investments with stated maturities of greater than three months from the date of purchase as current marketable securities. The Company has a policy of making
investments only with commercial institutions that have at least an "A" (or equivalent) credit rating. The Company invests its cash primarily in reverse repurchase
agreements (RRAs), government securities and obligations, corporate debt securities and money market funds.
RRAs are collateralized by deposits in the form of ‘Government Securities and Obligations’ for an amount not less than 102% of their value. The Company does not
record an asset or liability as the Company is not permitted to sell or repledge the associated collateral. The Company has a policy that the collateral has at least an A (or
equivalent) credit rating. The Company utilizes a third party custodian to manage the exchange of funds and ensure that collateral received is maintained at 102% of the
value of the RRAs on a daily basis. RRAs with stated maturities of greater than three months from the date of purchase are classified as marketable securities.
Investments
Short-term marketable securities are carried at cost, which approximates fair value. Investments classified as available-for-sale are carried at estimated fair value with
unrealized gains and losses recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Long-term debt securities that the Company has the ability and intent
to hold until maturity are carried at amortized cost. Management determines the appropriate classification of its investment in debt and equity securities at the time of
purchase and re-evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date. The Company periodically reviews its investments in equity securities for impairment and
adjusts these investments to their fair value when a decline in market value is deemed to be other than temporary. If losses on these securities are considered to be other
than temporary, the loss is recognized in earnings.
Property, Plant and Equipment and Depreciation
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. The Company utilizes the straight-line method of depreciation over the estimated useful lives of the assets:
Building and building equipment 20 - 30 years
Land and leasehold improvements 10 - 20 years
Machinery and equipment 2 - 13 years
The Company capitalizes certain computer software and development costs, included in machinery and equipment, when incurred in connection with developing or
obtaining computer software for internal use. Capitalized software costs are amortized over the estimated useful lives of the software, which generally range from 3 to
8 years.
The Company reviews long-lived assets to assess recoverability using undiscounted cash flows. When certain events or changes in operating or economic conditions
occur, an impairment assessment may be performed on the recoverability of the carrying value of these assets. If the asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is
measured based on the difference between the asset’s fair value and its carrying value. If quoted market prices are not available, the Company will estimate fair value
using a discounted value of estimated future cash flows.
Revenue Recognition
The Company recognizes revenue from product sales when the goods are shipped or delivered and title and risk of loss pass to the customer. Provisions for certain
rebates, sales incentives, trade promotions, coupons, product returns and discounts to customers are accounted for as reductions in sales in the same period the related
sales are recorded.
Product discounts granted are based on the terms of arrangements with direct, indirect and other market participants, as well as market conditions, including prices
charged by competitors. Rebates, the largest being the Medicaid rebate provision, are estimated based on contractual terms, historical experience, trend analysis and
projected market conditions in the various markets served. The Company evaluates market conditions for products or groups of products primarily through the analysis
of wholesaler and other third-party sell-through and market research data, as well as internally generated information.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 27Sales returns are generally estimated and recorded based on historical sales and returns information. Products that exhibit unusual sales or return patterns due to dating,
competition or other marketing matters are specifically investigated and analyzed as part of the accounting for sales returns accruals.
Sales returns allowances represent a reserve for products that may be returned due to expiration, destruction in the field, or in specific areas, product recall. The
returns reserve is based on historical return trends by product and by market as a percent to gross sales. In accordance with the Company’s accounting policies, the
Company generally issues credit to customers for returned goods. The Company’s sales returns reserves are accounted for in accordance with U.S. GAAP guidance for
revenue recognition when right of return exists. Sales returns reserves are recorded at full sales value. Sales returns in the Consumer and Pharmaceutical segments are
almost exclusively not resalable. Sales returns for certain franchises in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment are typically resalable but are not material. The
Company rarely exchanges products from inventory for returned products. The sales returns reserve for the total Company has been approximately 1.0% of annual sales
to customers during the fiscal reporting years 2013, 2012 and 2011.
Promotional programs, such as product listing allowances and cooperative advertising arrangements, are recorded in the year incurred. Continuing promotional
programs include coupons and volume-based sales incentive programs. The redemption cost of consumer coupons is based on historical redemption experience by
product and value. Volume-based incentive programs are based on the estimated sales volumes for the incentive period and are recorded as products are sold. The
Company also earns service revenue for co-promotion of certain products and includes it in sales to customers. These arrangements are evaluated to determine the
appropriate amounts to be deferred.
Shipping and Handling
Shipping and handling costs incurred were $1,128 million, $1,051 million and $1,022 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and are included in selling,
marketing and administrative expense. The amount of revenue received for shipping and handling is less than 0.5% of sales to customers for all periods presented.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market determined by the first-in, first-out method.
Intangible Assets and Goodwill
The authoritative literature on U.S. GAAP requires that goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives be assessed annually for impairment. The Company
completed the annual impairment test for 2013 in the fiscal fourth quarter. Future impairment tests will be performed annually in the fiscal fourth quarter, or sooner if
warranted. Purchased in-process research and development is accounted for as an indefinite lived intangible asset until the underlying project is completed, at which
point the intangible asset will be accounted for as a definite lived intangible asset, or abandoned, at which point the intangible asset will be written off or partially
impaired.
Intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be amortized over their useful lives, and are reviewed for impairment when warranted by economic
conditions. See Note 5 for further details on Intangible Assets and Goodwill.
Financial Instruments
As required by U.S. GAAP, all derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. Fair value is the exit price that would be received to sell an asset or
paid to transfer a liability. Fair value is a market-based measurement determined using assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. The
authoritative literature establishes a three-level hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used in measuring fair value, with Level 1 having the highest priority and Level 3 having
the lowest. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period in current earnings or other comprehensive income, depending on whether the derivative is
designated as part of a hedge transaction, and if so, the type of hedge transaction.
The Company documents all relationships between hedged items and derivatives. The overall risk management strategy includes reasons for undertaking hedge
transactions and entering into derivatives. The objectives of this strategy are: (1) minimize foreign currency exposure’s impact on the Company’s financial performance;
(2) protect the Company’s cash flow from adverse movements in foreign exchange rates; (3) ensure the appropriateness of financial instruments; and (4) manage the
enterprise risk associated with financial institutions. See Note 6 for additional information on Financial Instruments.
Product Liability
Accruals for product liability claims are recorded, on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be
reasonably estimated based on existing information. The accruals are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available.
As a result of cost and availability factors, effective November 1, 2005, the Company ceased purchasing third-party product liability insurance. The Company has
self insurance through a wholly-owned captive insurance company. In addition to accruals in the self insurance program, claims that exceed the insurance coverage are
accrued when losses are probable and amounts can be reasonably estimated. Based on the availability of prior coverage, receivables for insurance recoveries related
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 28to product liability claims are recorded on an undiscounted basis, when it is probable that a recovery will be realized. As appropriate, reserves against these receivables
are recorded for estimated amounts that may not be collected from third-party insurers.
Concentration of Credit Risk
Global concentration of credit risk with respect to trade accounts receivables continues to be limited due to the large number of customers globally and adherence to
internal credit policies and credit limits. Recent economic challenges in Italy, Spain, Greece and Portugal (the Southern European Region) have impacted certain
payment patterns, which have historically been longer than those experienced in the U.S. and other international markets. The total net trade accounts receivable balance
in the Southern European Region was approximately $2.3 billion as of December 29, 2013 and approximately $2.1 billion as of December 30, 2012. Approximately $1.3
billion as of December 29, 2013 and approximately $1.2 billion as of December 30, 2012 of the Southern European Region net trade accounts receivable balance related
to the Company's Consumer, Vision Care and Diabetes Care businesses as well as certain Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics customers which are in
line with historical collection patterns.
The remaining balance of net trade accounts receivable in the Southern European Region has been negatively impacted by the timing of payments from certain
government owned or supported health care customers as well as certain distributors of the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics local affiliates. The
total net trade accounts receivable balance for these customers were approximately $1.0 billion at December 29, 2013 and $0.9 billion at December 30, 2012. The
Company continues to receive payments from these customers and in some cases late payment premiums. For customers where payment is expected over periods of time
longer than one year, revenue and trade receivables have been discounted over the estimated period of time for collection. Allowances for doubtful accounts have been
increased for these customers, but have been immaterial to date. The Company will continue to work closely with these customers on payment plans, monitor the
economic situation and take appropriate actions as necessary.
Research and Development
Research and development expenses are expensed as incurred. Upfront and milestone payments made to third parties in connection with research and development
collaborations are expensed as incurred up to the point of regulatory approval. Payments made to third parties subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized and
amortized over the remaining useful life of the related product. Amounts capitalized for such payments are included in other intangibles, net of accumulated
amortization.
The Company enters into collaborative arrangements, typically with other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, to develop and commercialize drug
candidates or intellectual property. These arrangements typically involve two (or more) parties who are active participants in the collaboration and are exposed to
significant risks and rewards dependent on the commercial success of the activities. These collaborations usually involve various activities by one or more parties,
including research and development, marketing and selling and distribution. Often, these collaborations require upfront, milestone and royalty or profit share payments,
contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events linked to the success of the asset in development. Amounts due from collaborative partners related to
development activities are generally reflected as a reduction of research and development expense because the performance of contract development services is not
central to the Company’s operations. In general, the income statement presentation for these collaborations is as follows:
Nature/Type of Collaboration Statement of Earnings Presentation
Third-party sale of product Sales to customers
Royalties/milestones paid to collaborative partner (post-regulatory approval)* Cost of goods sold
Royalties received from collaborative partner Other income (expense), net
Upfront payments & milestones paid to collaborative partner (pre-regulatory Research and development expense
approval)
Research and development payments to collaborative partner Research and development expense
Research and development payments received from collaborative partner Reduction of Research and development expense
* Milestones are capitalized as intangible assets and amortized to cost of goods sold over the useful life.
For all years presented, there was no individual project that represented greater than 5% of the total annual consolidated research and development expense.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 29Advertising
Costs associated with advertising are expensed in the year incurred and are included in selling, marketing and administrative expenses. Advertising expenses worldwide,
which comprised television, radio, print media and Internet advertising, were $2.5 billion, $2.3 billion and $2.6 billion in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
Income Taxes
Income taxes are recorded based on amounts refundable or payable for the current year and include the results of any difference between U.S. GAAP accounting and tax
reporting, recorded as deferred tax assets or liabilities. The Company estimates deferred tax assets and liabilities based on current tax regulations and rates. Changes in
tax laws and rates may affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future.
The Company has unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions. The Company follows U.S. GAAP which prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement
attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Management believes that changes in
these estimates would not have a material effect on the Company's results of operations, cash flows or financial position.
At December 29, 2013 and December 30, 2012, the cumulative amounts of undistributed international earnings were approximately $50.9 billion and $49.0 billion,
respectively. At December 29, 2013 and December 30, 2012, the Company's foreign subsidiaries held balances of cash and cash equivalents in the amounts of $18.6
billion and $14.8 billion, respectively. The Company has not provided deferred taxes on the undistributed earnings from certain international subsidiaries where the
earnings are considered to be permanently reinvested. The Company intends to continue to reinvest these earnings in international operations. If the Company decided at
a later date to repatriate these earnings to the U.S., the Company would be required to provide for the net tax effects on these amounts. The Company does not
determine the deferred tax liability associated with these undistributed earnings, as such determination is not practical.
See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes.
Net Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net earnings available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the
period. Diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities were exercised or converted into common stock using the treasury stock
method.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported. Estimates are used when accounting for sales discounts, rebates, allowances and incentives, product liabilities, income
taxes, depreciation, amortization, employee benefits, contingencies and intangible asset and liability valuations. Actual results may or may not differ from those
estimates.
The Company follows the provisions of U.S. GAAP when recording litigation related contingencies. A liability is recorded when a loss is probable and can be
reasonably estimated. The best estimate of a loss within a range is accrued; however, if no estimate in the range is better than any other, the minimum amount is
accrued.
Annual Closing Date
The Company follows the concept of a fiscal year, which ends on the Sunday nearest to the end of the month of December. Normally each fiscal year consists of
52 weeks, but every five or six years the fiscal year consists of 53 weeks, as was the case in 2009, and will be the case again in 2015.
Reclassification
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
2. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Current Marketable Securities
At the end of 2013 and 2012, cash, cash equivalents and current marketable securities were comprised of:
(Dollars in Millions) 2013 2012
Cash $ 2,789 3,032
Government securities and obligations 7,632 7,622
Reverse repurchase agreements 15,006 7,701
Corporate debt securities 1,467 622
Money market funds 1,886 1,406
Time deposits 426 706
Total cash, cash equivalents and current marketable securities $ 29,206 21,089
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 30The estimated fair value was the same as the amortized cost as of December 29, 2013 and December 30, 2012.
As of December 29, 2013, current marketable securities consisted of $6,160 million, $1,100 million and $1,019 million of government securities and obligations, reverse
repurchase agreements and corporate debt securities, respectively.
As of December 30, 2012, current marketable securities consisted of $5,226 million, $500 million and $452 million of government securities and obligations,
reverse repurchase agreements and corporate debt securities, respectively.
Fair value of government securities and obligations and corporate debt securities were estimated using quoted broker prices and significant other observable inputs.
The Company invests its excess cash in both deposits with major banks throughout the world and other high-quality money market instruments. The Company has a
policy of making investments only with commercial institutions that have at least an "A" (or equivalent) credit rating.
3. Inventories
At the end of 2013 and 2012, inventories were comprised of:
(Dollars in Millions) 2013 2012
Raw materials and supplies $ 1,224 1,416
Goods in process 2,612 2,262
Finished goods 4,042 3,817
Total inventories $ 7,878 7,495
4. Property, Plant and Equipment
At the end of 2013 and 2012, property, plant and equipment at cost and accumulated depreciation were:
(Dollars in Millions) 2013 2012
Land and land improvements $ 885 793
Buildings and building equipment 10,423 10,046
Machinery and equipment 22,527 21,075
Construction in progress 3,298 2,740
Total property, plant and equipment, gross $ 37,133 34,654
Less accumulated depreciation 20,423 18,557
Total property, plant and equipment, net $ 16,710 16,097
The Company capitalizes interest expense as part of the cost of construction of facilities and equipment. Interest expense capitalized in 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $105
million, $115 million and $84 million, respectively.
Depreciation expense, including the amortization of capitalized interest in 2013, 2012 and 2011, was $2.7 billion, $2.5 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively.
Upon retirement or other disposal of property, plant and equipment, the costs and related amounts of accumulated depreciation or amortization are eliminated from
the asset and accumulated depreciation accounts, respectively. The difference, if any, between the net asset value and the proceeds are recorded in earnings.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 315. Intangible Assets and Goodwill
At the end of 2013 and 2012, the gross and net amounts of intangible assets were:
(Dollars in Millions) 2013 2012
Intangible assets with definite lives:
Patents and trademarks — gross $ 9,164 8,890
Less accumulated amortization 4,146 3,416
Patents and trademarks — net $ 5,018 5,474
Customer relationships and other intangibles — gross $ 19,027 18,755
Less accumulated amortization 4,872 4,030
Customer relationships and other intangibles — net $ 14,155 14,725
Intangible assets with indefinite lives:
Trademarks $ 7,619 7,648
Purchased in-process research and development 1,155 905
Total intangible assets with indefinite lives $ 8,774 8,553
Total intangible assets — net $ 27,947 28,752
Goodwill as of December 29, 2013 and December 30, 2012, as allocated by segment of business, was as follows:
Med Devices and
(Dollars in Millions) Consumer Pharmaceuticals Diagnostics Total
Goodwill at January 1, 2012 $ 8,298 1,721 6,119 16,138
Acquisitions 10 46 6,045 6,101
Currency translation/other 211 25 (51) 185
Goodwill at December 30, 2012 $ 8,519 1,792 12,113 22,424
Acquisitions 83 246 9 338
Currency translation/other (71) 30 77 36
Goodwill at December 29, 2013 $ 8,531 2,068 12,199 22,798
The weighted average amortization periods for patents and trademarks and customer relationships and other intangible assets are 17 years and 24 years , respectively.
The amortization expense of amortizable assets was $1,363 million, $1,146 million and $852 million before tax, for the fiscal years ended December 29, 2013,
December 30, 2012 and January 1, 2012, respectively. The estimated amortization expense for the five succeeding years approximates $1,350 million before tax, per
year. Amortization expense is included in cost of products sold.
During the fiscal year ended December 30, 2012, goodwill increased by $6.0 billion, related to the Synthes, Inc. acquisition. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional details on the Synthes, Inc. acquisition.
6. Fair Value Measurements
The Company uses forward foreign exchange contracts to manage its exposure to the variability of cash flows, primarily related to the foreign exchange rate changes of
future intercompany product and third-party purchases of materials denominated in foreign currency. The Company uses cross currency interest rate swaps to manage
currency risk primarily related to borrowings. Both types of derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges.
Additionally, the company uses interest rate swaps as an instrument to manage interest rate risk related to fixed rate borrowings. These derivatives are treated as fair
value hedges. The Company also uses forward foreign exchange contracts to manage its exposure to the variability of cash flows for repatriation of foreign dividends.
These contracts are designated as net investment hedges. Additionally, the Company uses forward foreign exchange contracts to offset its exposure to certain foreign
currency assets and liabilities. These forward foreign exchange contracts are not designated as hedges and therefore, changes in the fair values of these derivatives are
recognized in earnings, thereby offsetting the current earnings effect of the related foreign currency assets and liabilities.
The Company does not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes, or that contain credit risk related contingent features or
requirements to post collateral. On an ongoing basis, the Company monitors counterparty credit ratings. The Company considers credit non-performance risk to be low,
because the Company enters into agreements
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 32with commercial institutions that have at least an "A" (or equivalent) credit rating. As of December 29, 2013, the Company had notional amounts outstanding for
forward foreign exchange contracts, cross currency interest rate swaps and interest rate swaps of $26.9 billion, $2.4 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively.
All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period in current earnings or other
comprehensive income, depending on whether the derivative is designated as part of a hedge transaction, and if so, the type of hedge transaction.
The designation as a cash flow hedge is made at the entrance date of the derivative contract. At inception, all derivatives are expected to be highly effective.
Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated as a cash flow hedge and is highly effective are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income until
the underlying transaction affects earnings, and are then reclassified to earnings in the same account as the hedged transaction. Gains and losses associated with interest
rate swaps are recorded to interest expense in the period in which they occurred. Gains and losses on net investment hedges are accounted for through the currency
translation account and are insignificant. On an ongoing basis, the Company assesses whether each derivative continues to be highly effective in offsetting changes of
hedged items. If and when a derivative is no longer expected to be highly effective, hedge accounting is discontinued. Hedge ineffectiveness, if any, is included in
current period earnings in Other (income) expense, net for forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency interest rate swaps. For interest rate swaps designated
as fair value hedges, hedge ineffectiveness, if any, is included in current period earnings within interest expense. For the current reporting period, hedge ineffectiveness
associated with interest rate swaps are not material.
As of December 29, 2013, the balance of deferred net gains on derivatives included in accumulated other comprehensive income was $245 million after-tax. For
additional information, see the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income and Note 13. The Company expects that substantially all of the amounts related to
forward foreign exchange contracts will be reclassified into earnings over the next 12 months as a result of transactions that are expected to occur over that period. The
maximum length of time over which the Company is hedging transaction exposure is 18 months, excluding interest rate contracts. The amount ultimately realized in
earnings will differ as foreign exchange rates change. Realized gains and losses are ultimately determined by actual exchange rates at maturity of the derivative.
The following table is a summary of the activity related to derivatives designated as cash flow hedges for the fiscal years ended December 29, 2013 and
December 30, 2012:
Gain/(Loss) Gain/(Loss) Reclassified from Gain/(Loss) Recognized in
(Dollars in Millions) Recognized in Accumulated OCI(1) Accumulated OCI Into Income(1) Other Income/Expense(2)
Cash Flow Hedges by Income Statement Caption 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Sales to customers (3) $ 45 45 49 (58) 2 (1)
Cost of products sold (3) 271 103 69 (98) 23 (4)
Research and development expense (3) 24 (42) 16 19 (4) (1)
Interest (income)/Interest expense, net (4) 17 11 (10) (16) — —
Other (income) expense, net (3) (13) (65) (17) 29 (4) —
Total $ 344 52 107 (124) 17 (6)
All amounts shown in the table above are net of tax.
(1) Effective portion
(2) Ineffective portion
(3) Forward foreign exchange contracts
(4) Cross currency interest rate swaps
For the fiscal years ended December 29, 2013 and December 30, 2012, a gain of $32 million and a gain of $48 million, respectively, was recognized in Other (income)
expense, net, relating to forward foreign exchange contracts not designated as hedging instruments.
Fair value is the exit price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability. Fair value is a market-based measurement determined using assumptions
that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. The authoritative literature establishes a three-level hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used in measuring
fair value. The levels within the hierarchy are described below with Level 1 having the highest priority and Level 3 having the lowest.
The fair value of a derivative financial instrument (i.e., forward foreign exchange contracts, interest rate contracts) is the aggregation by currency of all future cash flows
discounted to its present value at the prevailing market interest rates and subsequently converted to the U.S. Dollar at the current spot foreign exchange rate. The
Company does not believe that fair values of these derivative instruments materially differ from the amounts that could be realized upon settlement or maturity, or
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 33that the changes in fair value will have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. The Company also holds equity
investments which are classified as Level 1 because they are traded in an active exchange market. The Company did not have any other significant financial assets or
liabilities which would require revised valuations under this standard that are recognized at fair value.
The following three levels of inputs are used to measure fair value:
Level 1 — Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
Level 2 — Significant other observable inputs.
Level 3 — Significant unobservable inputs.
The Company’s significant financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value as of December 29, 2013 and December 30, 2012 were as follows:
2013 2012
(Dollars in Millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Total (1)
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments:
Assets:
Forward foreign exchange contracts $ — 537 — 537 423
Interest rate contracts (2) — 169 — 169 98
Total — 706 — 706 521
Liabilities:
Forward foreign exchange contracts — 133 — 133 252
Interest rate contracts (3) (4) — 26 — 26 10
Total — 159 — 159 262
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:
Assets:
Forward foreign exchange contracts — 25 — 25 75
Liabilities:
Forward foreign exchange contracts — 29 — 29 23
Other investments (5) $ 333 — — 333 1,247
(1) 2012 assets and liabilities are all classified as Level 2 with the exception of Other investments of $1,247 million, which are classified as Level 1.
(2) Includes $169 million and $96 million of non-current assets for the fiscal years ending December 29, 2013 and December 30, 2012, respectively.
(3) Includes $19 million and $4 million of non-current liabilities for the fiscal years ending December 29, 2013 and December 30, 2012, respectively.
(4) Includes cross currency interest rate swaps and interest rate swaps.
(5) Classified as non-current other assets. The change in the fair value from December 30, 2012 was primarily due to the sale of Elan American Depositary Shares.
See Notes 2 and 7 for financial assets and liabilities held at carrying amount on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 347. Borrowings
The components of long-term debt are as follows:
(Dollars in Millions) 2013 Effective Rate % 2012 Effective Rate %
0.70% Notes due 2013 $ — —% 500 0.75
3.80% Debentures due 2013 — — 500 3.82
3 month LIBOR+0% FRN due 2013 — — 500 0.31
3 month LIBOR+0.09% FRN due 2014 750 0.33 750 0.40
1.20% Notes due 2014 999 1.24 999 1.24
2.15% Notes due 2016 898 2.22 898 2.22
3 month LIBOR+0.07% FRN due 2016 800 0.31 — —
0.70% Notes due 2016 397 0.74 — —
5.55% Debentures due 2017 1,000 5.55 1,000 5.55
5.15% Debentures due 2018 898 5.15 898 5.15
1.65% Notes due 2018 589 1.70 — —
4.75% Notes due 2019 (1B Euro 1.3683) (2)/ (1B Euro 1.3275) (3) 1,363 (2) 5.83 1,321 (3) 5.83
3% Zero Coupon Convertible Subordinated Debentures due 2020 179 3.00 205 3.00
2.95% Debentures due 2020 542 3.15 542 3.15
3.55% Notes due 2021 446 3.67 446 3.67
6.73% Debentures due 2023 250 6.73 250 6.73
3.375% Notes due 2023 550 3.38 — —
5.50% Notes due 2024 (500MM GBP 1.6414)(2)/(500MM GBP
1.6169) (3) 816 (2) 6.75 803 (3) 6.75
6.95% Notes due 2029 296 7.14 296 7.14
4.95% Debentures due 2033 500 4.95 500 4.95
4.375% Notes due 2033 646 4.42 — —
5.95% Notes due 2037 995 5.99 995 5.99
5.85% Debentures due 2038 700 5.86 700 5.86
4.50% Debentures due 2040 539 4.63 539 4.63
4.85% Notes due 2041 298 4.89 298 4.89
4.50% Notes due 2043 499 4.52 — —
Other 147 — 61 —
15,097 (4) 4.00 (1) 13,001 (4) 4.14 (1 )
Less current portion 1,769 1,512
$ 13,328 11,489
(1) Weighted average effective rate.
(2) Translation rate at December 29, 2013.
(3) Translation rate at December 30, 2012.
(4) The excess of the fair value over the carrying value of debt was $1.4 billion in 2013 and $2.2 billion in 2012.
Fair value of the non-current debt was estimated using market prices, which were corroborated by quoted broker prices and significant other observable inputs.
The Company has access to substantial sources of funds at numerous banks worldwide. In September 2013, the Company secured a new 364-day Credit Facility. Total
credit available to the Company approximates $10 billion, which expires on September 18, 2014. Interest charged on borrowings under the credit line agreements is
based on either bids provided by banks, the prime rate or London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR), plus applicable margins. Commitment fees under the agreements are
not material.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 35Throughout 2013, the Company continued to have access to liquidity through the commercial paper market. Short-term borrowings and the current portion of long-term
debt amounted to approximately $4.9 billion at the end of 2013, of which $2.5 billion was borrowed under the Commercial Paper Program. The remainder principally
represents local borrowing by international subsidiaries.
The Company has a shelf registration with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that enables the Company to issue debt securities and warrants to purchase
debt securities on a timely basis. The Company issued bonds in December 2013 for a total of $3.5 billion for general corporate purposes.
Aggregate maturities of long-term obligations commencing in 2014 are:
(Dollars in Millions)
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 After 2018
$1,769 76 2,096 1,007 1,526 8,623
8. Income Taxes
The provision for taxes on income consists of:
(Dollars in Millions) 2013 2012 2011
Currently payable:
U.S. taxes $ 594 2,023 2,392
International taxes 1,653 1,277 1,133
Total currently payable 2,247 3,300 3,525
Deferred:
U.S. taxes (251) (120) (690)
International taxes (356) 81 (146)
Total deferred (607) (39) (836)
Provision for taxes on income $ 1,640 3,261 2,689
A comparison of income tax expense at the U.S. statutory rate of 35% in 2013, 2012 and 2011, to the Company’s effective tax rate is as follows:
(Dollars in Millions) 2013 2012 2011
U.S. $ 4,261 4,664 3,634
International 11,210 9,111 8,727
Earnings before taxes on income: $ 15,471 13,775 12,361
Tax rates:
U.S. statutory rate 35.0 % 35.0 35.0
International operations excluding Ireland (10.6) (9.8) (14.0)
Ireland and Puerto Rico operations (9.0) (3.9) (1.8)
Research and orphan drug tax credits (0.8) — (0.8)
U.S. state and local 0.4 1.3 2.1
U.S. manufacturing deduction (0.8) (0.9) (0.8)
U.S. tax on international income 1.7 1.1 (0.4)
U.S. tax benefit on asset write-offs (5.1) — —
All other (0.2) 0.9 2.5
Effective tax rate 10.6 % 23.7 21.8
The decrease in the 2013 effective tax rate as compared to 2012 was attributable to a tax benefit associated with the write-off of assets for tax purposes associated with
Scios Inc., increased taxable income in lower tax jurisdictions relative to higher tax jurisdictions and the inclusion of two years of benefit of the U.S. Research and
Development (R&D) tax credit and the
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 36Controlled Foreign Corporation (CFC) look-through provisions. The R&D tax credit and the CFC look-through provisions were enacted into law in January 2013 and
were retroactive to January 1, 2012.
During 2013, the Company reached a settlement agreement related to certain issues regarding the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audit related to tax years
2006-2009. As a result of this settlement, the Company adjusted the unrecognized tax benefits relating to these matters which lowered tax expense. In addition, the
Company recorded additional U.S. tax expense related to increased dividends of foreign earnings. The above items resulted in a net gain of $180 million. Also included
in the 2013 results were incremental tax expenses associated with the establishment of a valuation allowance of $187 million related to the Company's Belgian foreign
affiliate.
The increase in the 2012 effective tax rate as compared to 2011 was due to lower tax benefits on the impairment of in-process research and development intangible
assets in low tax jurisdictions, increases in taxable income in higher tax jurisdictions relative to lower tax jurisdictions and the exclusion of the benefit of the U.S. R&D
tax credit and the CFC look-through provisions from the 2012 fiscal year financial results.
Temporary differences and carryforwards for 2013 and 2012 were as follows:
2013 Deferred Tax 2012 Deferred Tax
(Dollars in Millions) Asset Liability Asset Liability
Employee related obligations $ 1,908 3,343
Stock based compensation 1,121 1,199
Depreciation (772) (933)
Non-deductible intangibles (6,250) (6,261)
International R&D capitalized for tax 1,656 1,599
Reserves & liabilities 1,587 1,908
Income reported for tax purposes 1,043 726
Net operating loss carryforward international 1,090 1,117
Miscellaneous international (1) 1,508 (361) 1,291 (371)
Miscellaneous U.S. 927 915
Total deferred income taxes $ 10,840 (7,383) 12,098 (7,565)
(1) The $1,508 million is net of a valuation allowance related to Belgium of $187 million.
The difference between the net deferred tax on income per the balance sheet and the net deferred tax above is included in taxes on income on the balance sheet. The
Company has wholly-owned international subsidiaries that have cumulative net losses. The Company believes that it is more likely than not that these subsidiaries will
realize future taxable income sufficient to utilize these deferred tax assets.
The following table summarizes the activity related to unrecognized tax benefits:
(Dollars in Millions) 2013 2012 2011
Beginning of year $ 3,054 2,699 2,307
Increases related to current year tax positions 643 538 402
Increases related to prior period tax positions 80 57 87
Decreases related to prior period tax positions (574) (41) (77)
Settlements (418) (120) (16)
Lapse of statute of limitations (56) (79) (4)
End of year $ 2,729 3,054 2,699
The unrecognized tax benefits of $2.7 billion at December 29, 2013, if recognized, would affect the Company’s annual effective tax rate. The Company conducts
business and files tax returns in numerous countries and currently has tax audits in progress with a number of tax authorities. The IRS has completed its audit for the tax
years through 2005; however, there are a limited number of issues remaining open for prior tax years going back to 1999. In other major jurisdictions where the
Company conducts business, the years remain open generally back to the year 2004. During the third quarter of 2013, the Company reached a settlement agreement with
the IRS related to certain issues in connection with the 2006-2009 audit which resulted in a payment and adjustment to unrecognized tax benefits. The Company believes
that the 2006-2009 IRS audit will be substantially completed during the first quarter of 2014. The Company believes it is possible that audits may be completed by
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 37tax authorities in some jurisdictions over the next twelve months. However, the Company is not able to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of any other
future tax payments relating to uncertain tax positions.
The Company classifies liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties as long-term liabilities. Interest expense and penalties related to
unrecognized tax benefits are classified as income tax expense. The Company recognized after tax interest expense of $40 million, $41 million and $47 million in 2013,
2012 and 2011, respectively. The total amount of accrued interest was $412 million and $422 million in 2013 and 2012, respectively.
9. Employee Related Obligations
At the end of 2013 and 2012, employee related obligations recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets were:
(Dollars in Millions) 2013 2012
Pension benefits $ 2,950 4,488
Postretirement benefits 2,655 2,789
Postemployment benefits 1,872 1,452
Deferred compensation 693 747
Total employee obligations 8,170 9,476
Less current benefits payable 386 394
Employee related obligations — non-current $ 7,784 9,082
Prepaid employee related obligations of $2,363 million and $194 million for 2013 and 2012, respectively, are included in other assets on the Consolidated Balance
Sheets.
10. Pensions and Other Benefit Plans
The Company sponsors various retirement and pension plans, including defined benefit, defined contribution and termination indemnity plans, which cover most
employees worldwide. The Company also provides post-retirement benefits, primarily health care, to all eligible U.S. retired employees and their dependents.
Many international employees are covered by government-sponsored programs and the cost to the Company is not significant.
Retirement plan benefits are primarily based on the employee’s compensation during the last three to five years before retirement and the number of years of
service. International subsidiaries have plans under which funds are deposited with trustees, annuities are purchased under group contracts, or reserves are provided.
The Company does not fund retiree health care benefits in advance and has the right to modify these plans in the future.
The Company uses the date of its consolidated financial statements (December 29, 2013 and December 30, 2012, respectively) as the measurement date for all
U.S. and international retirement and other benefit plans.
Net periodic benefit costs for the Company’s defined benefit retirement plans and other benefit plans for 2013, 2012 and 2011 include the following components:
Retirement Plans Other Benefit Plans
(Dollars in Millions) 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011
Service cost $ 906 722 638 196 175 149
Interest cost 908 878 853 151 165 188
Expected return on plan assets (1,447) (1,236) (1,108) (6) (4) (1)
Amortization of prior service cost (credit) 6 6 9 (2) (3) (3)
Amortization of net transition obligation 1 1 1 — — —
Recognized actuarial losses 681 494 388 111 76 45
Curtailments and settlements — — — 2 — —
Net periodic benefit cost $ 1,055 865 781 452 409 378
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 38Amounts expected to be recognized in net periodic benefit cost in the coming year for the Company’s defined benefit retirement plans and other post-retirement plans:
(Dollars in Millions)
Amortization of net transition obligation $ —
Amortization of net actuarial losses 553
Amortization of prior service cost 3
Unrecognized gains and losses for the U.S. pension plans are amortized over the average remaining future service for each plan. For plans with no active employees,
they are amortized over the average life expectancy. The amortization of gains and losses for the other U.S. benefit plans is determined by using a 10% corridor of the
greater of the market value of assets or the projected benefit obligation. Total unamortized gains and losses in excess of the corridor are amortized over the average
remaining future service.
Prior service costs/benefits for the U.S. pension plans are amortized over the remaining future service of plan participants at the time of the plan amendment. Prior
service cost/benefit for the other U.S. benefit plans is amortized over the average remaining service to full eligibility age of plan participants at the time of the plan
amendment.
The weighted-average assumptions in the following table represent the rates used to develop the actuarial present value of projected benefit obligation for the year listed
and also the net periodic benefit cost for the following year.
Retirement Plans Other Benefit Plans
2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011
Worldwide Benefit Plans
Discount rate 4.78% 4.25% 5.13% 5.25% 4.55% 5.25%
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 8.46% 8.45% 8.62%
Rate of increase in compensation levels 4.08% 4.08% 4.19% 4.29% 4.28% 4.28%
The Company’s discount rates are determined by considering current yield curves representing high quality, long-term fixed income instruments. The resulting discount
rates are consistent with the duration of plan liabilities.
The expected rates of return on plan asset assumptions represent the Company's assessment of long-term returns on diversified investment portfolios globally. The
assessment is determined using projections from external financial sources, long-term historical averages, actual returns by asset class and the various asset class
allocations by market.
The following table displays the assumed health care cost trend rates, for all individuals:
Health Care Plans 2013 2012
Health care cost trend rate assumed for next year 6.50% 6.50%
Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline (ultimate trend) 4.50% 4.50%
Year the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate 2032 2032
A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effect:
One-Percentage- One-Percentage-
(Dollars in Millions) Point Increase Point Decrease
Health Care Plans
Total interest and service cost $ 45 $ (34)
Post-retirement benefit obligation 432 (347)
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 39The following table sets forth information related to the benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets at year-end 2013 and 2012 for the Company’s defined benefit
retirement plans and other post-retirement plans:
Retirement Plans Other Benefit Plans
(Dollars in Millions) 2013 2012 2013 2012
Change in Benefit Obligation
Projected benefit obligation — beginning of year $ 21,829 17,424 4,159 3,790
Service cost 906 722 196 175
Interest cost 908 878 151 165
Plan participant contributions 54 35 — —
Amendments 35 12 7 —
Actuarial (gains) losses (1,432) 2,662 296 459
Divestitures & acquisitions 8 629 — —
Curtailments, settlements & restructuring (15) (6) (11) —
Benefits paid from plan (751) (697) (373) (432)
Effect of exchange rates (54) 170 (18) 2
Projected benefit obligation — end of year $ 21,488 21,829 4,407 4,159
Change in Plan Assets
Plan assets at fair value — beginning of year $ 17,536 13,736 122 8
Actual return on plan assets 3,573 1,926 15 3
Company contributions 565 1,838 323 543
Plan participant contributions 54 35 — —
Settlements (4) (2) — —
Divestitures & acquisitions 9 593 — —
Benefits paid from plan assets (751) (697) (373) (432)
Effect of exchange rates (81) 107 — —
Plan assets at fair value — end of year $ 20,901 17,536 87 122
Funded status — end of year $ (587) (4,293) (4,320) (4,037)
Amounts Recognized in the Company’s Balance Sheet consist of the
following:
Non-current assets $ 2,363 194 $ — —
Current liabilities (71) (65) (302) (307)
Non-current liabilities (2,879) (4,422) (4,018) (3,730)
Total recognized in the consolidated balance sheet — end of year $ (587) (4,293) $ (4,320) (4,037)
Amounts Recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
consist of the following:
Net actuarial loss $ 3,344 7,586 $ 1,732 1,601
Prior service cost (credit) 26 9 (6) (14)
Unrecognized net transition obligation 2 2 — —
Total before tax effects $ 3,372 7,597 $ 1,726 1,587
Accumulated Benefit Obligations — end of year $ 19,203 19,267
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 40Retirement Plans Other Benefit Plans
(Dollars in Millions) 2013 2012 2013 2012
Changes in Plan Assets and Benefit Obligations Recognized in Other
Comprehensive Income
Net periodic benefit cost $ 1,055 865 $ 452 409
Net actuarial (gain) loss (3,559) 2,007 248 458
Amortization of net actuarial loss (681) (494) (111) (76)
Prior service cost 34 12 8 —
Amortization of prior service (cost) credit (13) (6) — 3
Effect of exchange rates (6) 79 (6) 1
Total recognized in other comprehensive income, before tax $ (4,225) 1,598 $ 139 386
Total recognized in net periodic benefit cost and other comprehensive
income $ (3,170) 2,463 $ 591 795
The Company plans to continue to fund its U.S. Qualified Plans to comply with the Pension Protection Act of 2006. International Plans are funded in accordance with
local regulations. Additional discretionary contributions are made when deemed appropriate to meet the long-term obligations of the plans. For certain plans, funding is
not a common practice, as funding provides no economic benefit. Consequently, the Company has several pension plans that are not funded.
In 2013, the Company contributed $58 million and $507 million to its U.S. and international pension plans, respectively.
The following table displays the funded status of the Company's U.S. Qualified & Non-Qualified pension plans and international funded and unfunded pension plans at
December 29, 2013 and December 30, 2012, respectively:
U.S. Plans International Plans
Qualified Plans Non-Qualified Plans Funded Plans Unfunded Plans
(Dollars in Millions) 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Plan Assets $ 13,990 11,464 — — 6,911 6,072 — —
Projected Benefit Obligation 11,921 12,420 1,296 1,343 7,797 7,586 474 480
Accumulated Benefit Obligation 10,745 11,001 1,065 1,070 6,974 6,774 419 422
Over (Under) Funded Status
Projected Benefit Obligation $ 2,069 (956) (1,296) (1,343) (886) (1,514) (474) (480)
Accumulated Benefit Obligation 3,245 463 (1,065) (1,070) (63) (702) (419) (422)
Plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets have an accumulated benefit obligation, projected benefit obligation and plan assets of $5.4 billion,
$5.8 billion and $3.3 billion, respectively, at the end of 2013, and $6.5 billion, $7.4 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively, at the end of 2012.
The following table displays the projected future benefit payments from the Company’s retirement and other benefit plans:
(Dollars in Millions) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019-2023
Projected future benefit payments
Retirement plans $ 778 794 840 890 933 6,071
Other benefit plans $ 313 309 305 302 299 1,469
The following table displays the projected future minimum contributions to the unfunded retirement plans. These amounts do not include any discretionary contributions
that the Company may elect to make in the future.
(Dollars in Millions) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019-2023
Projected future contributions $ 74 73 78 95 89 524
Each pension plan is overseen by a local committee or board that is responsible for the overall administration and investment of the pension plans. In determining
investment policies, strategies and goals, each committee or board considers factors
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 41including, local pension rules and regulations; local tax regulations; availability of investment vehicles (separate accounts, commingled accounts, insurance funds, etc.);
funded status of the plans; ratio of actives to retirees; duration of liabilities; and other relevant factors including: diversification, liquidity of local markets and liquidity
of base currency. A majority of the Company’s pension funds are open to new entrants and are expected to be on-going plans. Permitted investments are primarily liquid
and/or listed, with little reliance on illiquid and non-traditional investments such as hedge funds.
The Company’s retirement plan asset allocation at the end of 2013 and 2012 and target allocations for 2014 are as follows:
Percent of Target
Plan Assets Allocation
2013 2012 2014
Worldwide Retirement Plans
Equity securities 76% 75% 71%
Debt securities 24 25 29
Total plan assets 100% 100% 100%
Determination of Fair Value of Plan Assets
The Plan has an established and well-documented process for determining fair values. Fair value is based upon quoted market prices, where available. If listed prices or
quotes are not available, fair value is based upon models that primarily use, as inputs, market-based or independently sourced market parameters, including yield curves,
interest rates, volatilities, equity or debt prices, foreign exchange rates and credit curves.
While the Plan believes its valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to
determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date.
Valuation Hierarchy
The authoritative literature establishes a three-level hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used in measuring fair value. The levels within the hierarchy are described in the
table below with Level 1 having the highest priority and Level 3 having the lowest.
A financial instrument’s categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for the investments measured at fair value.
• Short-term investments — Cash and quoted short-term instruments are valued at the closing price or the amount held on deposit by the custodian bank. Other
investments are through investment vehicles valued using the Net Asset Value (NAV) provided by the administrator of the fund. The NAV is based on the value
of the underlying assets owned by the fund, minus its liabilities, and then divided by the number of shares outstanding. The NAV is a quoted price in a market
that is not active and classified as Level 2.
• Government and agency securities — A limited number of these investments are valued at the closing price reported on the major market on which the
individual securities are traded. Where quoted prices are available in an active market, the investments are classified within Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy.
If quoted market prices are not available for the specific security, then fair values are estimated by using pricing models, quoted prices of securities with similar
characteristics or discounted cash flows. When quoted market prices for a security are not available in an active market, they are classified as Level 2.
• Debt instruments — A limited number of these investments are valued at the closing price reported on the major market on which the individual securities are
traded. Where quoted prices are available in an active market, the investments are classified as Level 1. If quoted market prices are not available for the specific
security, then fair values are estimated by using pricing models, quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows and are
classified as Level 2. Level 3 debt instruments are priced based on unobservable inputs.
• Equity securities — Common stocks are valued at the closing price reported on the major market on which the individual securities are traded. Substantially all
common stock is classified within Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy.
• Commingled funds — These investment vehicles are valued using the NAV provided by the fund administrator. The NAV is based on the value of the
underlying assets owned by the fund, minus its liabilities, and then divided by the number of shares outstanding. Assets in the Level 2 category have a quoted
market price in a market that is not active.
• Insurance contracts — The instruments are issued by insurance companies. The fair value is based on negotiated value and the underlying investments held in
separate account portfolios as well as considering the credit worthiness
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 42of the issuer. The underlying investments are government, asset-backed and fixed income securities. In general, insurance contracts are classified as Level 3 as
there are no quoted prices nor other observable inputs for pricing.
• Other assets — Other assets are represented primarily by limited partnerships and real estate investments, as well as commercial loans and commercial
mortgages that are not classified as corporate debt. Other assets that are exchange listed and actively traded are classified as Level 1, while inactively traded
assets are classified as Level 2. Most limited partnerships represent investments in private equity and similar funds that are valued by the general partners.
Certain of these limited partnerships, as well as any other assets valued using unobservable inputs, are classified as Level 3.
The following table sets forth the Retirement Plans' trust investments measured at fair value as of December 29, 2013 and December 30, 2012:
Quoted Prices Significant
in Active Other Significant
Markets for Observable Unobservable
Identical Assets Inputs Inputs
(Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total Assets
(Dollars in Millions) 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Short-term investment funds $ 304 155 561 627 — — 865 782
Government and agency securities — 53 1,965 1,706 — — 1,965 1,759
Debt instruments — 2 1,215 1,641 1 3 1,216 1,646
Equity securities 10,526 8,104 23 1 4 4 10,553 8,109
Commingled funds — 11 5,846 4,985 44 50 5,890 5,046
Insurance contracts — — 2 — 23 24 25 24
Other assets 4 — 314 101 69 69 387 170
Trust investments at fair value $ 10,834 8,325 9,926 9,061 141 150 20,901 17,536
The Company's Other Benefit Plans are unfunded except for U.S. commingled funds (Level 2) of $76 million and $67 million at December 29, 2013 and December 30,
2012, respectively, and $11 million and $55 million of U.S. short-term-investment funds (Level 2) at December 29, 2013 and December 30, 2012, respectively.
The fair value of Johnson & Johnson Common Stock directly held in plan assets was $671 million (3.2% of total plan assets) at December 29, 2013 and $512 million
(2.9% of total plan assets) at December 30, 2012.
Level 3 Gains and Losses
The table below sets forth a summary of changes in the fair value of the Plan’s Level 3 assets for the years ended December 29, 2013 and December 30, 2012:
Equity Commingled Insurance
(Dollars in Millions) Debt Instruments Securities Funds Contracts Other Assets Total Level 3
Balance January 1, 2012 $ 9 16 33 25 65 148
Realized gains (losses) — (1) — — (5) (6)
Unrealized gains (losses) — — — — — —
Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements, net (6) (11) 17 (1) 9 8
Balance December 30, 2012 3 4 50 24 69 150
Realized gains (losses) — — — — (5) (5)
Unrealized gains (losses) — (1) — (1) — (2)
Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements, net (2) 1 (6) — 5 (2)
Balance December 29, 2013 $ 1 4 44 23 69 141
11. Savings Plan
The Company has voluntary 401(k) savings plans designed to enhance the existing retirement programs covering eligible employees. The Company matches a
percentage of each employee’s contributions consistent with the provisions of the plan for which he/she is eligible. Total Company matching contributions to the plans
were $164 million, $160 million and $157 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 4312. Capital and Treasury Stock
Changes in treasury stock were:
Treasury Stock
(Amounts in Millions Except Treasury Stock Shares in Thousands) Shares Amount
Balance at January 2, 2011 381,746 $ 20,783
Employee compensation and stock option plans (26,007) (1,649)
Repurchase of common stock 39,741 2,525
Balance at January 1, 2012 395,480 21,659
Employee compensation and stock option plans (55,170) (3,250)
Issuance of common stock associated with the acquisition of Synthes, Inc. (203,740) (12,852)
Repurchase of common stock (1) 204,784 12,919
Balance at December 30, 2012 341,354 18,476
Employee compensation and stock option plans (48,555) (3,367)
Repurchase of common stock 6,416 591
Balance at December 29, 2013 299,215 $ 15,700
(1) Includes repurchase of common stock associated with the acquisition of Synthes, Inc.
Aggregate shares of Common Stock issued were approximately 3,119,843,000 shares at the end of 2013, 2012 and 2011.
Cash dividends paid were $2.59 per share in 2013, compared with dividends of $2.40 per share in 2012, and $2.25 per share in 2011.
13. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
Components of other comprehensive income (loss) consist of the following:
Total
Gain/ Accumulated
Foreign (Loss) on Other
Currency Gain/(Loss) on Employee Benefit Derivatives & Comprehensive Income
(Dollars in Millions) Translation Securities Plans Hedges (Loss)
January 2, 2011 $ (969) 24 (2,686) 100 (3,531)
Net 2011 changes (557) 424 (1,700) (268) (2,101)
January 1, 2012 (1,526) 448 (4,386) (168) (5,632)
Net 2012 changes 1,230 (253) (1,331) 176 (178)
December 30, 2012 (296) 195 (5,717) 8 (5,810)
Net 2013 changes 94 (89) 2,708 237 2,950
December 29, 2013 $ (202) 106 (3,009) 245 (2,860)
Amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income are presented net of the related tax impact. Foreign currency translation is not adjusted for income taxes as it
relates to permanent investments in international subsidiaries. For additional details on comprehensive income see the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive
Income.
Details on reclassifications out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income:
Gain/(Loss) on Securities - reclassifications released to other (income) expense, net.
Employee Benefit Plans - reclassifications are included in net periodic benefit cost. See Note 10 for additional details.
Gain/(Loss) on Derivatives & Hedges - reclassifications to earnings are recorded in the same account as the hedged transaction. See Note 6 for additional details.
14. International Currency Translation
For translation of its subsidiaries operating in non-U.S. Dollar currencies, the Company has determined that the local currencies of its international subsidiaries are the
functional currencies except those in highly inflationary economies, which are defined as those which have had compound cumulative rates of inflation of 100% or more
during the past three years, or where a substantial portion of its cash flows are not in the local currency.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 44In consolidating international subsidiaries, balance sheet currency effects are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. This equity account
includes the results of translating certain balance sheet assets and liabilities at current exchange rates and some accounts at historical rates, except for those located in
highly inflationary economies. The translation of balance sheet accounts for highly inflationary economies are reflected in the operating results.
A rollforward of the changes during 2013, 2012 and 2011 for foreign currency translation adjustments is included in Note 13.
Net currency transaction gains and losses included in Other (income) expense were losses of $186 million, $58 million and $10 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011,
respectively.
15. Earnings Per Share
The following is a reconciliation of basic net earnings per share to diluted net earnings per share for the fiscal years ended December 29, 2013, December 30, 2012 and
January 1, 2012:
(In Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 2013 2012 2011
Basic net earnings per share attributable to Johnson & Johnson $ 4.92 3.94 3.54
Average shares outstanding — basic 2,809.2 2,753.3 2,736.0
Potential shares exercisable under stock option plans 148.5 164.6 158.3
Less: shares repurchased under treasury stock method (103.3) (128.2) (122.6)
Convertible debt shares 3.0 3.6 3.6
Accelerated share repurchase program 19.6 19.3 —
Adjusted average shares outstanding — diluted 2,877.0 2,812.6 2,775.3
Diluted net earnings per share attributable to Johnson & Johnson $ 4.81 3.86 3.49
The diluted net earnings per share calculation included the dilutive effect of convertible debt that is offset by the related reduction in interest expense of $4 million
after-tax for years 2013, 2012 and 2011.
The diluted earnings per share calculation for 2013 included all shares related to stock options, as the exercise price of all options was less than the average market value
of the Company's stock. Diluted net earnings per share for 2012 and 2011 excluded 0.2 million and 50.7 million shares, respectively, related to stock options, as the
exercise price of these options was greater than their average market value, which would result in an anti-dilutive effect on diluted earnings per share.
The diluted earnings per share calculation for the fiscal years ended December 29, 2013 and December 30, 2012 included the dilutive effect of 19.6 million shares and
19.3 million shares, respectively, related to the accelerated share repurchase program, associated with the acquisition of Synthes, Inc. See Note 20 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional details.
16. Rental Expense and Lease Commitments
Rentals of space, vehicles, manufacturing equipment and office and data processing equipment under operating leases were approximately $363 million, $375 million
and $313 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
The approximate minimum rental payments required under operating leases that have initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year at
December 29, 2013 are:
(Dollars in Millions)
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 After 2018 Total
$286 238 186 110 85 87 992
Commitments under capital leases are not significant.
17. Common Stock, Stock Option Plans and Stock Compensation Agreements
At December 29, 2013, the Company had 3 stock-based compensation plans. The shares outstanding are for contracts under the Company's 2000 Stock Option Plan, the
2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan expired April 26, 2012. All options and restricted shares
granted subsequent to that date were under the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Under the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Company may issue up to 650 million
shares of common stock, plus any shares canceled, expired, forfeited, or not issued from the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan subsequent to April 26, 2012. Shares
available for future grants under the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan were 583 million at the end of 2013.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 45The compensation cost that has been charged against income for these plans was $728 million, $662 million and $621 million for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
The total income tax benefit recognized in the income statement for share-based compensation costs was $243 million, $220 million and $207 million for 2013, 2012
and 2011, respectively. The total unrecognized compensation cost was $636 million, $565 million and $562 million for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The weighted
average period for this cost to be recognized was 1.26 years, 1.02 years and 0.97 years for 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. Share-based compensation costs
capitalized as part of inventory were insignificant in all periods.
The Company settles employee benefit equity issuances with treasury shares. Previously, treasury shares were replenished throughout the year for the number of
shares used to settle employee benefit equity issuances. However, pursuant to the accelerated stock repurchase agreements in connection with the acquisition of Synthes,
Inc., the Company did not make any purchases of common stock on the open market during the fiscal first and second quarters of 2013. Upon settlement of the
accelerated stock repurchase agreements in the fiscal third quarter of 2013, the Company resumed common stock purchases.
Stock Options
Stock options expire 10 years from the date of grant and vest over service periods that range from 6 months to 4 years. All options are granted at the average of the high
and low prices of the Company’s Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of grant.
The fair value of each option award was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option valuation model that uses the assumptions noted in the
following table. Expected volatility represents a blended rate of 4-year daily historical average volatility rate, and a 5-week average implied volatility rate based on
at-the-money traded Johnson & Johnson options with a life of 2 years. Historical data is used to determine the expected life of the option. The risk-free rate was based
on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
The average fair value of options granted was $4.88, $6.39 and $7.47, in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The fair value was estimated based on the weighted average
assumptions of:
2013 2012 2011
Risk-free rate 1.01% 1.06% 2.41%
Expected volatility 14.04% 18.38% 18.20%
Expected life (in years) 6.0 6.0 6.0
Dividend yield 3.40% 3.60% 3.60%
A summary of option activity under the Plan as of December 29, 2013, December 30, 2012 and January 1, 2012, and changes during the years ending on those dates is
presented below:
Aggregate
Intrinsic
Weighted Value
(Shares in Thousands) Outstanding Shares Average Exercise Price (Dollars in Millions)
Shares at January 2, 2011 193,690 $ 59.68 $ 648
Options granted 9,530 62.21
Options exercised (20,160) 56.65
Options canceled/forfeited (3,601) 62.38
Shares at January 1, 2012 179,459 60.10 1,004
Options granted 8,661 65.36
Options exercised (49,388) 56.73
Options canceled/forfeited (4,381) 62.97
Shares at December 30, 2012 134,351 61.58 1,061
Options granted 29,010 72.54
Options exercised (41,357) 59.99
Options canceled/forfeited (2,448) 65.89
Shares at December 29, 2013 119,556 $ 64.70 $ 3,306
The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $941 million, $547 million and $167 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
The following table summarizes stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 29, 2013:
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 46(Shares in Thousands) Outstanding Exercisable
Average Exercise Average Exercise
Exercise Price Range Options Average Life(1) Price Options Price
$52.13-$53.93 4,175 0.1 $53.92 4,175 $53.92
$54.89-$58.33 11,539 5.1 $58.33 11,539 $58.33
$58.34-$62.20 30,119 4.1 $60.65 22,122 $60.10
$62.62-$65.62 29,818 5.3 $64.62 21,438 $64.42
$65.80-$72.54 43,905 6.1 $70.23 15,936 $66.19
119,556 5.1 $64.70 75,210 $62.01
(1) Average contractual life remaining in years.
Stock options exercisable at December 30, 2012 and January 1, 2012 were 104,860 at an average price of $61.15 and an average life of 4.3 years and 138,126 at an
average price of $59.94 and an average life of 4.2 years, respectively.
Restricted Share Units and Performance Share Units
The Company grants restricted share units which vest over service periods that range from 6 months to 3 years. The Company also grants performance share units,
which are paid in shares of Johnson & Johnson Common Stock after the end of a three-year performance period. Whether any performance share units vest, and the
amount that does vest, is tied to the completion of service periods that range from 6 months to 3 years and the achievement, over a three-year period, of three equally-
weighted goals that directly align with or help drive long-term total shareholder return: sales, adjusted operational earnings per share, and relative total shareholder
return. The number of shares actually earned at the end of the three-year period will vary, based only on actual performance, from 0% to 200% of the target number of
performance share units granted.
A summary of the restricted share units and performance share units activity under the Plans as of December 29, 2013 is presented below:
Outstanding Restricted Share Outstanding Performance
(Shares in Thousands) Units Share Units
Shares at January 2, 2011 29,734
Granted 11,478
Issued (8,300)
Canceled/forfeited (1,886)
Shares at January 1, 2012 31,026
Granted 12,197 327
Issued (9,278) —
Canceled/forfeited (2,111) (42)
Shares at December 30, 2012 31,834 285
Granted 10,582 1,290
Issued (10,078) —
Canceled/forfeited (1,721) (40)
Shares at December 29, 2013 30,617 1,535
The average fair value of the restricted share units granted was $65.90, $58.93 and $55.90 in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, using the fair market value at the date
of grant. The fair value of restricted share units was discounted for dividends, which are not paid on the restricted share units during the vesting period. The fair value of
restricted share units settled was $569.2 million, $483.2 million and $458.9 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
The weighted average fair value of the performance share units granted was $73.42 and $55.01 in 2013 and 2012, calculated using the weighted average fair market
value for each of the three component goals at the date of grant.
The fair values for the sales and earnings per share goals of each performance share unit were estimated on the date of grant using the fair market value of the
shares at the time of the award discounted for dividends, which are not paid on the performance share units during the vesting period. The fair value for the relative
total shareholder return goal of each performance share unit was estimated on the date of grant using the Monte Carlo valuation model. No performance share units
vested in 2013 and 2012.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 4718. Segments of Business and Geographic Areas
Sales to Customers
(Dollars in Millions) 2013 2012 2011
Consumer —
United States $ 5,162 5,046 5,151
International 9,535 9,401 9,732
Total 14,697 14,447 14,883
Pharmaceutical —
United States 13,948 12,421 12,386
International 14,177 12,930 11,982
Total 28,125 25,351 24,368
Medical Devices and Diagnostics —
United States 12,800 12,363 11,371
International 15,690 15,063 14,408
Total 28,490 27,426 25,779
Worldwide total $ 71,312 67,224 65,030
Pre-Tax Profit Identifiable Assets
(Dollars in Millions) 2013 (3) 2012 (4) 2011 (5) 2013 2012 2011
Consumer $ 1,973 1,693 2,096 $ 23,711 24,131 24,210
Pharmaceutical 9,178 6,075 6,406 23,783 23,219 23,747
Medical Devices and Diagnostics 5,261 7,187 5,263 44,585 42,926 23,609
Total 16,412 14,955 13,765 92,079 90,276 71,566
Less: Expense not allocated to segments (1) 941 1,180 1,404
General corporate (2) 40,604 31,071 42,078
Worldwide total $ 15,471 13,775 12,361 $ 132,683 121,347 113,644
Additions to Property, Depreciation and
Plant & Equipment Amortization
(Dollars in Millions) 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011
Consumer $ 533 468 670 $ 539 575 631
Pharmaceutical 856 737 729 1,075 1,010 958
Medical Devices and Diagnostics 1,724 1,230 1,095 2,224 1,857 1,331
Segments total 3,113 2,435 2,494 3,838 3,442 2,920
General corporate 482 499 399 266 224 238
Worldwide total $ 3,595 2,934 2,893 $ 4,104 3,666 3,158
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 48Sales to Customers Long-Lived Assets (6)
(Dollars in Millions) 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011
United States $ 31,910 29,830 28,908 $ 35,880 35,115 23,529
Europe 18,599 16,945 17,129 24,868 25,261 19,056
Western Hemisphere excluding U.S. 7,421 7,207 6,418 3,281 3,636 3,517
Asia-Pacific, Africa 13,382 13,242 12,575 2,434 2,362 2,163
Segments total 71,312 67,224 65,030 66,463 66,374 48,265
General corporate 992 899 750
Other non long-lived assets 65,228 54,074 64,629
Worldwide total $ 71,312 67,224 65,030 $ 132,683 121,347 113,644
See Note 1 for a description of the segments in which the Company operates.
Export sales are not significant. In 2013, 2012 and 2011, the Company did not have a customer that represented 10% of total revenues.
(1) Amounts not allocated to segments include interest (income) expense, noncontrolling interests and general corporate (income) expense. Includes expense of $0.2
billion and $0.5 billion of currency related expense related to the acquisition of Synthes, Inc. in 2012 and 2011, respectively.
(2) General corporate includes cash and marketable securities.
(3) Includes $2,276 million of net litigation expense comprised of $1,975 million and $301 million in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics and Pharmaceutical
segments, respectively. Includes $683 million of Synthes integration/transaction costs in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment. Includes $580 million of
in-process research and development expense, comprised of $514 million and $66 million in the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics segments,
respectively. The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment also includes $251 million expense for the cost associated with the DePuy ASRTM Hip program.
Includes $98 million of income related to other adjustments comprised of $55 million and $43 million in the Consumer and Pharmaceutical segments, respectively.
(4) Includes $1,218 million of net litigation expense comprised of $658 million and $560 million in the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics segments,
respectively. Includes $1,163 million of in-process research and development expense, comprised of $1,111 million and $52 million in the Pharmaceutical and
Medical Devices and Diagnostics segments, respectively. Includes $795 million of Synthes integration/transaction costs in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics
segment. Includes $909 million of asset write-downs and other adjustments, comprised of $499 million, $264 million and $146 million in the Pharmaceutical,
Consumer and Medical Devices and Diagnostics segments, respectively. The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment also includes $110 million expense for the
cost associated with the DePuy ASR™ Hip program.
(5) Includes $3,310 million of net litigation expense comprised of $1,741 million and $1,569 million in the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics
segments, respectively. Includes $656 million of net restructuring expense, comprised of $676 million expense in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment and
a gain of $20 million in the Pharmaceutical segment. The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment also includes $521 million expense for the cost associated with
the DePuy ASR™ Hip program.
(6) Long-lived assets include property, plant and equipment, net for 2013, 2012 and 2011 of $16,710, $16,097 and $14,739, respectively, and intangible assets and
goodwill, net for 2013, 2012 and 2011 of $50,745, $51,176 and $34,276, respectively.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 4919. Selected Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)
Selected unaudited quarterly financial data for the years 2013 and 2012 are summarized below:
2013 2012
Second
(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Data) First Quarter (1)
Second
(
2Q )uarter Third Q (3)uarter Fourth (4Q )uarter First Q (5)uarter
Quarter (6)
Third Q (7)uarter Fourth (8Q )uarter
Segment sales to customers
Consumer $ 3,675 3,658 3,611 3,753 3,595 3,619 3,581 3,652
Pharmaceutical 6,768 7,025 7,036 7,296 6,133 6,291 6,402 6,525
Med Devices & Diagnostics 7,062 7,194 6,928 7,306 6,411 6,565 7,069 7,381
Total sales 17,505 17,877 17,575 18,355 16,139 16,475 17,052 17,558
Gross profit 11,951 12,388 12,231 12,400 11,224 11,332 11,455 11,555
Earnings before provision for taxes on income 4,261 4,793 3,667 2,750 5,045 2,035 3,595 3,100
Net earnings attributable to Johnson &
Johnson 3,497 3,833 2,982 3,519 3,910 1,408 2,968 2,567
Basic net earnings per share attributable to
Johnson & Johnson $ 1.25 1.36 1.06 1.25 1.43 0.51 1.08 0.93
Diluted net earnings per share attributable to
Johnson & Johnson $ 1.22 1.33 1.04 1.23 1.41 0.50 1.05 0.91
(1) The first quarter of 2013 includes after-tax charges of $183 million from Synthes integration/transaction costs, $391 million from net litigation expense and $42
million from impairment of in-process research and development, and $30 million associated with the DePuy ASR™ Hip program.
(2) The second quarter of 2013 includes after-tax charges of $308 million from net litigation expense, $87 million from Synthes integration/transaction costs and $61
million associated with the DePuy ASR™ Hip program.
(3) The third quarter of 2013 includes after-tax charges of $720 million from net litigation expense, $103 million from Synthes integration/transaction costs, $126
million from impairment of in-process research and development and $31 million associated with the DePuy ASR™ Hip program.
(4) The fourth quarter of 2013 includes after-tax charges of $227 million from net litigation expense, $110 million from Synthes integration/transaction costs, $294
million from impairment of in-process research and development, $118 million associated with the DePuy ASR™ Hip program and a $707 million tax benefit
associated with Scios Inc.
(5) The first quarter of 2012 includes an after-tax gain of $106 million from currency and costs associated with the acquisition of Synthes, Inc.
(6) The second quarter of 2012 includes after-tax charges of $717 million for asset write-downs, $611 million from net litigation expense, $564 million associated with
the acquisition of Synthes, Inc. and $344 million from impairment of in-process research and development.
(7) The third quarter of 2012 includes after-tax charges of $135 million associated with the acquisition of Synthes, Inc., $340 million from impairment of in-process
research and development, $70 million associated with net litigation expense, and $24 million associated with the DePuy ASR™ Hip program.
(8) The fourth quarter of 2012 includes after-tax charges of $371 million from net litigation expense, $306 million associated with the acquisition of Synthes, Inc., $73
million associated with the DePuy ASR™ Hip program and $59 million from impairment of in-process research and development.
20. Business Combinations and Divestitures
Certain businesses were acquired for $835 million in cash and $193 million of liabilities assumed during 2013. These acquisitions were accounted for using the
acquisition method and, accordingly, results of operations have been included in the financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition.
The assumed liabilities primarily represent the fair value of the contingent consideration which may be payable related to the acquisition of Aragon Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
As per terms of the agreement, additional payments of up to $350 million may be paid in the future based on reaching predetermined milestones.
The 2013 acquisitions included: Flexible Stenting Solutions, Inc., a leading developer of innovative flexible peripheral arterial, venous and biliary stents; Shanghai
Elsker Mother & Baby Co., Ltd, a baby care company in China and Aragon Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a privately-held, pharmaceutical discovery and development company
focused on drugs to treat hormonally-driven cancers.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 50The excess of purchase price over the estimated fair value of tangible assets acquired amounted to $941 million and has been assigned to identifiable intangible assets,
with any residual recorded to goodwill. Of this amount, approximately $831 million has been identified as the value of IPR&D associated with the acquisitions of
Aragon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Flexible Stenting Solutions, Inc.
The IPR&D related to the acquisition of Aragon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. of $810 million is associated with Aragon’s androgen receptor antagonist program for
treatment of hormonally-driven cancers. The value of the IPR&D was calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the inherent risk in such projects. Probability
of success factors ranging from 37% - 52.0% were used to reflect inherent clinical and regulatory risk. The discount rate applied was 15.5%. The IPR&D related to the
acquisition of Flexible Stenting Solutions, Inc. of $21 million is associated with the approval for peripheral vascular indications, including the superficial femoral artery
indication. A probability of success factor of 100% was used and a discount rate ranging between 16.5% - 17.5% was applied.
Certain businesses were acquired for $17,821 million in cash and stock and $1,204 million of liabilities assumed during 2012. These acquisitions were accounted for
using the acquisition method and, accordingly, results of operations have been included in the financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition.
The 2012 acquisitions included: Synthes, Inc., a global developer and manufacturer of orthopaedics devices; Guangzhou Bioseal Biotech Co., Ltd. a developer of
biologic combinations addressing moderate to severe hemostasis; Angiotech Pharmaceuticals, Inc., intellectual property and know how related to the QuillTM Knotless
Tissue-Closure Device; Corimmun GmbH, a developer of a phase II treatment for CHF; Calibra Medical, Inc., a developer of a unique, wearable three-day insulin patch
for convenient and discreet mealtime dosing for people with diabetes who take multiple daily injections of insulin;Spectrum Vision LLC, a full service distributor of
contact lenses serving Russia with facilities in the Ukraine and Kazakhstan; and marketing authorizations, trademarks, and patents extending ZYRTEC® related market
rights in Australia and Canada.
The excess of purchase price over the estimated fair value of tangible assets acquired amounted to $15,785 million and has been assigned to identifiable intangible
assets, with any residual recorded to goodwill. Of this amount, approximately $208 million has been identified as the value of IPR&D associated with the acquisitions of
Corimmun GmbH and Synthes, Inc.
The IPR&D related to the acquisition of Synthes, Inc. of $63 million is associated with orthopaedic devices, and the IPR&D associated with Corimmun of $145
million is related to a CHF treatment. These IPR&D values were calculated using the cash flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. Synthes,
Inc. had a probability of success factor of 100%, discounted using a 14% rate. Corimmun had a probability of success factor of 38%, discounted using a 25% rate.
During 2013, the Company recorded a charge of $0.2 billion for the impairment of the in-process research and development associated with Corimmun.
During the fiscal second quarter of 2012, the Company completed the acquisition of Synthes, Inc., a global developer and manufacturer of orthopaedics devices, for
a purchase price of $20.2 billion in cash and stock. The net acquisition cost of the transaction is $17.5 billion based on cash on hand at closing of $2.7 billion.
Under the terms of the agreement, each share of Synthes, Inc. common stock was exchanged for CHF 55.65 in cash and 1.717 shares of Johnson & Johnson
common stock, based on the calculated exchange ratio. The exchange ratio was calculated on June 12, 2012 and based on the relevant exchange rate and closing price of
Johnson & Johnson common stock on that date, the total fair value of consideration transferred was $19.7 billion. When the acquisition was completed on June 14, 2012,
based on the relevant exchange rate and closing price of Johnson & Johnson common stock on that date, the total fair value of the consideration transferred was $20.2
billion. Janssen Pharmaceutical, a company organized under the laws of Ireland and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, used cash on hand to satisfy the
cash portion of the merger consideration.
The stock portion of the merger consideration consisted of shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock purchased by Janssen Pharmaceutical from two banks,
pursuant to two accelerated share repurchase (ASR) agreements dated June 12, 2012. On June 13, 2012, Janssen Pharmaceutical purchased an aggregate of
approximately 203.7 million shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock at an initial purchase price of $12.9 billion under the ASR agreements, with all of the shares
delivered to Janssen Pharmaceutical on June 13, 2012. During the fiscal third quarter of 2013, the Company settled the remaining liabilities under the ASR agreements
for $2.9 billion in cash which was recorded as a reduction to equity.
In addition, while the Company believes that the transactions under each ASR agreement and a series of related internal transactions were consummated in a tax
efficient manner in accordance with applicable law, it is possible that the Internal Revenue Service could assert one or more contrary positions to challenge the
transactions from a tax perspective. If challenged, an amount up to the total purchase price for the Synthes shares could be treated as subject to applicable U.S. tax at
approximately the statutory rate to the Company, plus interest.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 51The following table summarizes the consideration transferred to acquire Synthes, Inc. valued on the acquisition date of June 14, 2012:
(Dollars in Millions)
Cash (multiply 55.65CHF by shares of Synthes common stock outstanding by the exchange
rate)(A) $ 6,902
Common Stock (multiply 1.717 by shares of Synthes common stock outstanding by J&J stock
price)(B) $ 13,335
Total fair value of consideration transferred $ 20,237
(A) Synthes common stock outstanding of 118.7 million shares as of the acquisition date and CHF/USD exchange rate of .95674
(B) Johnson & Johnson closing stock price on the New York Stock Exchange as of acquisition date of $65.45 per share.
During the fiscal second quarter of 2013, the Company finalized the purchase price allocation to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed using the
acquisition method. The following table presents the amounts recognized for assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date with adjustments made
through June 30, 2013:
(Dollars in Millions)
Cash & Cash equivalents $ 2,749
Inventory 1,194
Accounts Receivable, net 738
Other current assets 238
Property, plant and equipment 1,253
Goodwill 6,074
Intangible assets 12,861
Other non-current assets 46
Total Assets Acquired 25,153
Current liabilities 1,081
Deferred Taxes 3,506
Other non-current liabilities 329
Total Liabilities Assumed 4,916
Net Assets Acquired $ 20,237
The adjustments made since the date of acquisition were to account for changes to inventory, based on the results of the physical inventory counts and deferred taxes, to
reflect the statutory tax rate that is being applied to the intangible assets. The revisions to the purchase price allocation were not material to the Statements of
Consolidated Earnings or the Consolidated Balance Sheet for the fiscal second quarter of 2013 and prior fiscal quarters.
The assets acquired are recorded in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment. The acquisition of Synthes, Inc. resulted in $6.1 billion of goodwill. The goodwill is
primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise from the acquisition of Synthes, Inc. The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 52The purchase price allocation to the identifiable intangible assets before the effect of any amortization included in the current period balance sheets is as follows:
(Dollars in Millions)
Intangible assets with definite lives:
Customer relationships $ 9,870
Patents and technology 1,508
Total amortizable intangibles 11,378
Trademark and Trade name 1,420
In-process research and development 63
Total intangible assets $ 12,861
The Customer Relationship intangible lives were determined using the projected customer retention period based
on historical experience. Synthes has a broad product portfolio, including trauma, spine, cranio-maxillofacial, biomaterials and
power tools. An analysis was performed to determine the lives for each of the Customer Relationship assets in the distinct product areas. The calculations to determine
useful lives included attrition rates and discounted future cash flows by product area. This analysis resulted in a weighted average life of 22 years for the Customer
Relationship assets.
The Patents and Technology intangible lives were derived based on technology obsolescence rates that are commensurate with the nature of the Synthes businesses. New
product introductions are predominantly incremental enhancements to existing platforms and are infrequently transformational. An analysis was performed to determine
the lives for each of the Patents and Technology assets in each distinct product area. The calculations to determine useful lives included assumptions on technology
obsolescence and discounted future cash flows by product area. This analysis resulted in a weighted average life of 18 years for the Patents and Technology assets.
A weighted average of the values and lives ascribed to the Customer Relationship and Patents and Technology intangible assets results in a 21 year weighted average
life.
The Trademark and Trade name asset values were determined to have an indefinite life based on a number of factors, including trade name history, the competitive
environment, market share and future operating plans. Additionally, in-process research and development intangible assets were valued for technology programs for
unapproved products.
The value of the IPR&D was calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. The discount rate applied was 14%.
The Company is in the process of executing the integration plans to combine businesses, sales organizations, systems and locations as a result of which the Company has
and will continue to incur integration costs.
The operating results of Synthes were reported in the Company's financial statements beginning on June 14, 2012. Total sales and net earnings for Synthes for the fiscal
year ended December 30, 2012 were $2,159 million and $324 million, respectively.
The following table provides pro forma results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2012 and January 1, 2012, as if Synthes, Inc. had been acquired as
of January 3, 2011. The pro forma results include the effect of divestitures and certain purchase accounting adjustments such as the estimated changes in depreciation
and amortization expense on the acquired tangible and intangible assets. However, pro forma results do not include any anticipated cost savings or other effects of the
integration of Synthes, Inc. Accordingly, such amounts are not necessarily indicative of the results if the acquisition had occurred on the dates indicated or which may
occur in the future.
Unaudited Pro forma
consolidated results
(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 2012 2011
Net Sales $ 68,894 68,741
Net Earnings attributable to Johnson & Johnson $ 11,564 9,427
Diluted Net Earnings per share attributable to Johnson & Johnson $ 4.11 3.40
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 53The Company recorded acquisition related costs before tax of $683 million and $1,028 million in 2013 and 2012, respectively, which were recorded in Cost of products
sold and Other (income) expense.
In connection with the Synthes acquisition, DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. agreed to divest certain rights and assets related to its trauma business to Biomet, Inc. and
completed the initial closing for this transaction in the fiscal second quarter of 2012, including those countries that represented the majority of sales. As of December 30,
2012, the transaction had closed worldwide.
Certain businesses were acquired for $2,797 million in cash and $228 million of liabilities assumed during 2011. These acquisitions were accounted for using the
acquisition method and, accordingly, results of operations have been included in the financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition.
The 2011 acquisitions included: Crucell N.V., a global biopharmaceutical company focused on the research & development, production and marketing of vaccines
and antibodies against infectious disease worldwide; the over-the-counter brands of J.B. Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Limited, including RINZA®, Russia's leading
multi-symptom cough and cold brand, and DOKTOR MOM®, Russia's number two selling cough brand, as well as several other brands; full ownership of the Johnson &
Johnson-Merck Consumer Pharmaceuticals Co. joint venture in the U.S. from Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp; and SterilMed, Inc., a leader in the reprocessing and
remanufacturing of medical devices in the U.S.
The excess of purchase price over the estimated fair value of tangible assets acquired amounted to $2,657 million and has been assigned to identifiable intangible
assets, with any residual recorded to goodwill. Of this amount, approximately $982 million has been identified as the value of IPR&D associated with the acquisition of
Crucell N.V.
The IPR&D related to the acquisition of Crucell N.V. of $982 million is associated with vaccines and antibodies that prevent and/or treat infectious diseases. The
value of the IPR&D was calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. Probability of success factors ranging from 14%-81%
were used to reflect inherent clinical and regulatory risk. The discount rate applied was 16%. During 2012, the Company recorded a charge of $0.5 billion for the
intangible asset write-down and $0.4 billion for the impairment of the in-process research and development related to the Crucell business. During 2013, the Company
recorded a charge of $0.4 billion for the impairment of the in-process research and development related to the Crucell business.
With the exception of the Synthes, Inc. acquisition, supplemental pro forma information for 2013, 2012 and 2011 in accordance with U.S. GAAP standards related
to business combinations, and goodwill and other intangible assets, is not provided, as the impact of the aforementioned acquisitions did not have a material effect on the
Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position.
During 2013, the Company divestitures included: women's sanitary protection products in the U.S., Canada and the Caribbean to Energizer Holdings, Inc.; Rolaids®
to Chattem, Inc.; DORIBAX® rights to Shionogi; and the sale of certain consumer brands and certain pharmaceutical products. In 2013, the gains on the divestitures of
businesses were $0.1 billion. During 2012, the Company divestitures included: BYSTOLIC® (nebivolol) IP rights to Forest Laboratories, Inc.; the trauma business of
Depuy Orthopaedics, Inc. to Biomet, Inc.; the Therakos business to an affiliate of Gores Capital Partners III, L.P.; the sale of certain consumer brands; and the
RhoGAM® business. In 2012, the gains on the divestitures of businesses were $0.9 billion. During 2011, the Company divestitures included the Animal Health Business
to Elanco, a Division of Eli Lilly; MONISTAT® in Canada, the U.S. and its territories (including Puerto Rico); assets of the Ortho Dermatologics division in the U.S. to
subsidiaries of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, Inc.; and the Surgical Instruments Business of Codman & Shurtleff, Inc. In 2011, the gains on the divestitures of
businesses were $1.0 billion.
In January 2014, the Company received a binding offer from The Carlyle Group to acquire the Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics business for $4.15 billion. The purchase
price will be reduced at closing by approximately $0.2 billion, primarily for certain retained working capital, and will be subject to other customary adjustments. The
Company expects this transaction to close sometime during the middle of 2014, pending fulfillment of certain conditions, including, but not limited to, the receipt of
applicable anti-trust clearances and other customary closing requirements.
21. Legal Proceedings
Johnson & Johnson and certain of its subsidiaries are involved in various lawsuits and claims regarding product liability, intellectual property, commercial and other
matters; governmental investigations; and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of their business.
The Company records accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. As of
December 29, 2013, the Company has determined that the liabilities associated with certain litigation matters are probable and can be reasonably estimated. The
Company has accrued for these matters and will continue to monitor each related legal issue and adjust accruals as might be warranted based on new information and
further developments in accordance with ASC 450-20-25. For these and other litigation and regulatory matters discussed below for which a loss is probable or
reasonably possible, the Company is unable to determine an estimate of the possible loss or range of loss beyond the amounts already accrued. These matters can be
affected by various factors, including whether damages sought in the proceedings are unsubstantiated or indeterminate; scientific and legal discovery has not commenced
or is not complete; proceedings are in early stages; matters present legal uncertainties; there are significant facts in dispute; or there are numerous parties involved.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 54In the Company's opinion, based on its examination of these matters, its experience to date and discussions with counsel, the ultimate outcome of legal proceedings, net
of liabilities accrued in the Company's balance sheet, is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position. However, the resolution in
any reporting period of one or more of these matters, either alone or in the aggregate, may have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and
cash flows for that period.
PRODUCT LIABILITY
Certain subsidiaries of Johnson & Johnson are involved in numerous product liability claims and lawsuits involving multiple products. Claimants in these cases seek
substantial compensatory and, where available, punitive damages. While these subsidiaries believe they have substantial defenses, it is not feasible to predict the ultimate
outcome of litigation. The Company has established product liability accruals in compliance with ASC 450-20 based on currently available information, which in some
cases may be limited. Changes to the accruals may be required in the future as additional information becomes available.
The most significant of these cases include LEVAQUIN®, the ASR™ XL Acetabular System and DePuy ASR™ Hip Resurfacing System, the PINNACL®E
Acetabular Cup System, RISPERDAL®, pelvic meshes, DURAGESIC®/fentanyl patches and TOPAMAX®. As of December 29, 2013, in the U.S. there were
approximately 1,165 plaintiffs with direct claims in pending lawsuits regarding injuries allegedly due to LEVAQUIN®, 12,340 with respect to the ASR™ XL Acetabular
System and DePuy ASR™ Hip Resurfacing System,5 ,560 with respect to the PINNACLE® Acetabular Cup System, 500 with respect to RISPERDAL®, 28,810 with
respect to pelvic meshes, 22 with respect to DURAGESIC®/fentanyl patches and 140 with respect to TOPAMAX®.
In August 2010, DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. (DePuy) announced a worldwide voluntary recall of its ASR™ XL Acetabular System and DePuy ASR™ Hip
Resurfacing System used in hip replacement surgery. Claims for personal injury have been made against DePuy and Johnson & Johnson, and the number of pending
lawsuits continues to increase. Cases filed in Federal courts in the United States have been organized as a multi-district litigation in the United States District Court for
the Northern District of Ohio. Litigation has also been filed in countries outside of the United States, primarily in the United Kingdom, Canada and Australia. In
November 2013, DePuy reached an agreement with a Court-appointed committee of lawyers representing ASR™ Hip System plaintiffs to establish a program to settle
claims with eligible ASR patients in the United States who had surgery to replace their ASR hip, known as revision surgery, as of August 31, 2013. The U.S. settlement
is valued at approximately $2.5 billion, based on an estimate of 8,000 patients participating in the program. This settlement program is expected to bring to a close
significant ASR litigation activity in the U.S. However, many lawsuits in the U.S. will remain; and the settlement program does not address litigation outside of the U.S.
The Company continues to receive information with respect to potential costs associated with this recall on a worldwide basis. Updates to existing accruals associated
with the ASR may be required in the future as additional information becomes available.
Claims for personal injury have also been made against DePuy and Johnson & Johnson relating to DePuy's PINNACLE® Acetabular Cup System used in hip
replacement surgery. The number of pending product liability lawsuits continues to increase, and the Company continues to receive information with respect to potential
costs and the anticipated number of cases. Cases filed in Federal courts in the United States have been organized as a multi-district litigation in the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Texas. The Company has established a product liability accrual in anticipation of product liability litigation associated with DePuy's
PINNACLE® Acetabular Cup System. Changes to this accrual may be required in the future as additional information becomes available.
Claims for personal injury have been made against Ethicon, Inc. (Ethicon) and Johnson & Johnson arising out of Ethicon's pelvic mesh devices used to treat stress
urinary incontinence and pelvic organ prolapse. The number of pending product liability lawsuits continues to increase, and the Company continues to receive
information with respect to potential costs and the anticipated number of cases. Cases filed in Federal courts in the United States have been organized as a multi-district
litigation in the United States District Court for the Southern District of West Virginia. In addition, class actions and individual personal injury cases or claims have been
commenced in Australia, Belgium, Canada, England, Israel, Italy, the Netherlands, Scotland and Venezuela, seeking damages for alleged injury resulting from Ethicon's
pelvic mesh devices. The Company has established a product liability accrual in anticipation of product liability litigation associated with Ethicon's pelvic mesh
products. Changes to this accrual may be required in the future as additional information becomes available.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
Certain subsidiaries of Johnson & Johnson are subject, from time to time, to legal proceedings and claims related to patent, trademark and other intellectual property
matters arising out of their business. The most significant of these matters are described below.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 55PATENT INFRINGEMENT
Certain subsidiaries of Johnson & Johnson are involved in lawsuits challenging the coverage and/or validity of the patents on their products. Although these subsidiaries
believe that they have substantial defenses to these challenges with respect to all material patents, there can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a
loss in any of these cases could potentially adversely affect the ability of these subsidiaries to sell their products, or require the payment of past damages and future
royalties.
Medical Devices and Diagnostics
In January 2010, Tyco Healthcare Group, LP (Tyco) and U.S. Surgical Corporation (now Covidien plc) filed a lawsuit against Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (EES) in the
United States District Court for the District of Connecticut alleging that several features of EES's HARMONIC® Scalpel infringed three Tyco patents. Tyco is seeking
monetary damages and injunctive relief. The case was tried in July 2012, and in March 2013, the Court ruled that EES's HARMONIC Scalpel infringed Tyco's patents
and ordered EES to pay damages of approximately $176 million. EES has appealed the decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The
Company believes EES has strong arguments supporting its appeal. Because the Company believes that the potential for an unfavorable outcome is not probable, it has
not established an accrual with respect to the case.
In October 2007, Bruce Saffran (Saffran) filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Johnson & Johnson and Cordis Corporation (Cordis) in the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that Cordis's sales of its CYPHER® Stent willfully infringed the U.S. Patent No. 5,653,760. In January 2011, the jury
awarded Saffran $482 million. In March 2011, the Court entered judgment against Cordis in the amount of $593 million, representing the jury verdict, plus $111 million
in pre-judgment interest. In April 2013, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit reversed the judgment and held that Cordis did not infringe Plaintiff's
patent as a matter of law. Plaintiff filed a Petition for Certiorari with the United States Supreme Court, which was denied in January 2014.
In November 2007, Roche Diagnostics Operations, Inc., et al. (Roche) filed a patent infringement lawsuit against LifeScan, Inc. (LifeScan) in the United States
District Court for the District of Delaware, alleging LifeScan's OneTouch® line of blood glucose monitoring systems infringe two patents related to the use of
microelectrode sensors. In September 2009, LifeScan obtained a favorable ruling on claim construction that precluded a finding of infringement. The Court entered
judgment against Roche in July 2010 and Roche appealed. The Court of Appeals reversed the District Court's ruling on claim construction and remanded the case to the
District Court for new findings on the issue. Roche is seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief.
In June 2009, Rembrandt Vision Technologies, L.P. (Rembrandt) filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Johnson & Johnson Vision Care, Inc. (JJVC) in the
United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that JJVC's manufacture and sale of its ACUVUE®ADVANCE® and ACUVUE® OASYS®
Hydrogel Contact Lenses infringe their U.S. Patent No. 5,712,327 (the Chang patent). Rembrandt is seeking monetary relief. The case was transferred to the United
States District Court for the Middle District of Florida. In May 2012, the jury returned a verdict holding that neither of the accused lenses infringes the '327 patent.
Rembrandt appealed, and in August 2013, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the District Court's judgment. Rembrandt has asked the
District Court to grant it a new trial based on alleged new evidence, and the Court's decision on that motion is pending.
In September 2011, LifeScan, Inc. (LifeScan) filed a lawsuit against Shasta Technologies, Instacare Corp and Conductive Technologies (collectively, Shasta) in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of California for patent infringement for the making and marketing of a strip for use in LifeScan's OneTouch®
Blood Glucose Meters. In November 2012, Shasta got a limited approval from the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for its strips. In December
2012, LifeScan filed an additional lawsuit in the same court alleging violation of the Lanham Act based on Shasta's packaging. LifeScan moved for, and the District
Court granted, a preliminary injunction prohibiting Shasta from marketing their strips. Shasta appealed, and in November 2013, the Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit reversed the grant of the preliminary injunction. A preliminary injunction prohibiting Shasta from marketing their strips with objectionable labeling also was
granted in the Lanham Act case and was affirmed on appeal in January 2014. The defendants challenged the validity of the asserted patents in the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office (USPTO) and the patent infringement case has been stayed pending the outcome of the validity proceedings. The validity of two of the patents was
confirmed by the USPTO and a decision regarding the validity of the third patent is pending. In April 2013 defendants brought counterclaims for antitrust violations and
false advertising and those claims have been stayed pending resolution of the patent infringement case.
In November 2011, Howmedica Osteonics Corp. (Howmedica) and Stryker Ireland Ltd. (Stryker) filed a patent infringement lawsuit against DePuy Orthopaedics,
Inc. (DePuy) in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging infringement by DePuy's PINNACLE® Acetabular Cup System and DURALOC®
Acetabular Cup System of a patent relating to a dual-locking mechanism feature in an acetabular cup system. Howmedica and Stryker are seeking monetary damages
and injunctive relief. DePuy filed its answer in February 2012 and filed a counterclaim asserting that Stryker's Trident Acetabular Hip System infringes DePuy's U.S.
Patent No. 6,610,097. DePuy is seeking damages and injunctive relief from Howmedica and Stryker.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 56In May 2012, Medtronic MiniMed, Inc., Medtronic Puerto Rico Operations Co. and MiniMed Distribution Corp. (collectively, Medtronic MiniMed) filed a patent
infringement lawsuit against Animas Corporation in the United States District Court for the Central District of California alleging that Animas' OneTouch® Ping®
Glucose Management System and the IR1250, IR2020 and IR 2000 insulin pumps infringe nine of their patents. Medtronic MiniMed is seeking monetary damages and
injunctive relief.
In March 2013, Medinol Ltd. (Medinol) filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Cordis Corporation (Cordis) and Johnson & Johnson in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of New York alleging that all of Cordis's sales of the CYPHER® and CYPHER SELECT® Stents made in the United States since 2005
willfully infringed four of Medinol's patents directed to the geometry of articulated stents. Medinol is seeking damages and attorney's fees.
Pharmaceutical
In May 2009, Abbott Biotechnology Ltd. (Abbott) filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Centocor, Inc. (Centocor) (now Janssen Biotech, Inc. (JBI)) in the United
States District Court for the District of Massachusetts alleging that SIMPONI® infringes Abbott's U.S. Patent Nos. 7,223,394 and 7,541,031 (the Salfeld patents). Abbott
is seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief. Oral argument on summary judgment motions was held in December 2013. The parties are awaiting a decision.
In August 2009, Abbott GmbH & Co. (Abbott GmbH) and Abbott Bioresearch Center filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Centocor (now JBI) in the United
States District Court for the District of Massachusetts alleging that STELARA® infringes two United States patents assigned to Abbott GmbH. JBI filed a complaint in
the United States District Court for the District of Columbia for a declaratory judgment of non-infringement and invalidity of the Abbott GmbH patents, as well as a
Complaint for Review of a Patent Interference Decision that granted priority of invention on one of the two asserted patents to Abbott GmbH. The cases have been
transferred from the District of Columbia to the District of Massachusetts. Trial was held in September 2012 with a jury verdict in favor of JBI, invalidating Abbott's
patent claims. In March 2013, the Court denied Abbott's post-trial motions challenging the outcome and granted JBI's motion on the appeal of the interference decision.
Abbott filed its notice of appeal in April 2013. Oral argument is scheduled for March 2014 in the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Also in August 2009, Abbott
GmbH and Abbott Laboratories Limited brought a patent infringement lawsuit in The Federal Court of Canada alleging that STELARA® infringes Abbott GmbH's
Canadian patent. A trial was held in December 2013 in the Canadian Case. In January 2014, the Court ruled in favor of Abbott, finding that the asserted claims were
valid and infringed by STELARA®. Janssen will appeal that decision. The Company believes Janssen has strong arguments supporting its appeal. In addition to the U.S.
and Canadian litigations, in August 2012, Abbott filed patent infringement lawsuits in the Netherlands, Switzerland and Germany. In each of the above cases, Abbott is
seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief.
LITIGATION AGAINST FILERS OF ABBREVIATED NEW DRUG APPLICATIONS (ANDAs)
The following summarizes lawsuits pending against generic companies that filed Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDAs) seeking to market generic forms of
products sold by various subsidiaries of Johnson & Johnson prior to expiration of the applicable patents covering those products. These ANDAs typically include
allegations of non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability of the applicable patents. In the event the subsidiaries are not successful in these actions, or the statutory
30-month stays of the ANDAs expire before the United States District Court rulings are obtained, the third-party companies involved will have the ability, upon approval
of the FDA, to introduce generic versions of the products at issue, resulting in very substantial market share and revenue losses for those products.
ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN® LO
A number of generic companies filed ANDAs seeking approval to market generic versions of ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN® LO. Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (JPI) filed
patent infringement lawsuits against these generic companies seeking an Order enjoining them from marketing their generic versions of ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN® LO
prior to the expiration of JPI's patent relating to ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN® LO (the OTCLO patent). In 2012, JPI entered into settlement agreements with certain of these
generic companies. The two remaining cases were concluded in the fiscal first quarter of 2013, as described below.
In January 2010, Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (OMJPI) (now JPI) filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Lupin Ltd. and Lupin Pharmaceuticals,
Inc. (collectively, Lupin) in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in response to Lupin's ANDA seeking approval to market a generic version of
ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN® LO prior to the expiration of the OTCLO patent. Lupin filed a counterclaim alleging invalidity of the patent. In September 2012, the Court
issued a decision in favor of JPI upholding the validity of the patent and ordering that the effective date of the approval of Lupin's ANDA (which had previously been
approved) be not earlier than the expiration of the OTCLO patent. Lupin appealed the decision and in March 2013, JPI and Lupin entered into a settlement agreement
pursuant to which Lupin was granted a license under the OTCLO patent to market its generic version of ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN® LO starting December 31, 2015 (or
earlier under certain circumstances).
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 57In October 2011, JPI filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Sun Pharma Global FZE and Sun Pharmaceutical Industries (collectively, Sun) in the United States
District Court for the District of New Jersey in response to Sun's ANDA seeking approval to market a generic version of ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN® LO prior to the
expiration of the OTCLO patent. In February 2013, JPI and Sun entered into a settlement agreement pursuant to which Sun was granted a license under the OTCLO
patent to market its generic version of ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN® LO starting December 31, 2015 (or earlier under certain circumstances), if and when they obtain FDA
approval.
PREZISTA®
A number of generic companies have filed ANDAs seeking approval to market generic versions of PREZISTA®. In November 2010, Tibotec, Inc. (now Tibotec, LLC)
and Tibotec Pharmaceuticals (now Janssen R&D Ireland) (collectively, Tibotec) filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Lupin, Ltd., Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
(collectively, Lupin), Mylan, Inc. and Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (collectively, Mylan) in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in response to
Lupin's and Mylan's respective ANDAs seeking approval to market generic versions of Tibotec's PREZISTA® product before the expiration of Tibotec's patent relating to
PREZISTA®. Lupin and Mylan each filed counterclaims alleging non-infringement and invalidity. In July 2011, Tibotec filed another patent infringement lawsuit against
Lupin in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in response to Lupin's supplement to its ANDA to add new dosage strengths for its proposed
product. In August 2011, Tibotec and G.D. Searle & Company (G.D. Searle) filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Lupin and Mylan in response to their notice
letters advising that their ANDAs are seeking approval to market generic versions of Tibotec's PREZISTA® product before the expiration of two patents relating to
PREZISTA® that Tibotec exclusively licenses from G.D. Searle.
In March 2011, Tibotec and G.D. Searle filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and Teva Pharmaceuticals, Ltd. (collectively,
Teva) in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in response to Teva's ANDA seeking approval to market a generic version of PREZISTA® before
the expiration of certain patents relating to PREZISTA® that Tibotec either owns or exclusively licenses from G.D. Searle.
In March 2011, Tibotec filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Hetero Drugs, Ltd. Unit III and Hetero USA Inc. (collectively, Hetero) in the United States District
Court for the District of New Jersey in response to Hetero's ANDA seeking approval to market a generic version of PREZISTA® before the expiration of certain patents
relating to PREZISTA® that Tibotec exclusively licenses from G.D. Searle. In July 2011, upon agreement by the parties, the Court entered a stay of the lawsuit pending
a final decision in the lawsuit against Teva with respect to the validity and/or enforceability of the patents that Tibotec licenses from G.D. Searle, with Hetero agreeing
to be bound by such final decision. In September 2013, the lawsuit against Hetero was dismissed because Hetero is no longer seeking FDA approval to market its
generic version of PREZISTA® before the expiration of the relevant patents.
In September 2011, the Court consolidated the above lawsuits, as well as lawsuits brought by the United States Government against each of the defendants for
infringement of a United States Government-owned patent relating to PREZISTA®, for purposes of pre-trial discovery and trial, with the proviso that after discovery is
completed, any party can move to have the cases de-consolidated for trial.
In May and June 2012, Janssen Products, LP and Janssen R&D Ireland (collectively, Janssen) and G.D. Searle filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Lupin,
Teva and Mylan in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, alleging infringement of newly issued United States Reissue Patent No. Re42,889,
which Janssen exclusively licenses from G.D. Searle. In August 2012, Janssen and G.D. Searle filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Lupin, Teva and Mylan in the
United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, alleging infringement of newly issued United States Reissue Patent No. Re43,596, which Janssen exclusively
licenses from G.D. Searle. These cases have been consolidated with the above lawsuits. In October 2012, Janssen filed a motion to file a Supplemental Complaint
against Lupin, Teva and Mylan in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, alleging infringement of United States Patent Nos. 7,772,411 (Mylan
only), 7,126,015 (Lupin and Teva only) and 7,595,408 (Lupin and Teva only). In January 2013, the Court permitted these three additional patents to be added to the
consolidated action. In March 2013, Janssen filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Hetero in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, alleging
infringement of United States Patent Nos. 7,126,015 and 7,595,408.
In May 2013, Lupin notified Janssen that it filed an ANDA seeking approval to market a new dosage strength of its generic version of PREZISTA®. In response,
Janssen filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, alleging that Lupin's new dosage strength would infringe
the same patents that Janssen is asserting against Lupin in the original action.
In June 2013, Janssen and G.D. Searle dismissed their claims relating to the patents owned by G.D. Searle against Lupin and Mylan, and in July 2013, Janssen and
G.D. Searle dismissed their claims relating to those patents against Teva. A trial on the remaining patents has been scheduled for March 2014.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 58In November 2013, Janssen filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Teva in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, alleging infringement of
newly issued United States Patent No. 8,518,987.
In each of the above lawsuits, Tibotec and Janssen are seeking an Order enjoining the defendants from marketing their generic versions of PREZISTA® before the
expiration of the relevant patents.
CONCERTA®
In June 2013, ALZA Corporation and Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (collectively, Janssen) filed patent infringement lawsuits in the District Court for the District of
Delaware against (1) Par Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Actavis Elizabeth LLC and Actavis, Inc. (collectively, Par) and (2) Osmotica Kereskedelmies Szolgaltato Kft (Osmotica)
and Norwich Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Norwich) in response to those parties' ANDAs seeking approval to market a generic version of CONCERTA® before the expiration
of United States Patent No. 8,163,798 (the '798 patent). In each of the above lawsuits, Janssen is seeking an Order enjoining the defendants from marketing their generic
versions of CONCERTA® before the expiration of the '798 patent. In September 2013, Janssen dismissed Actavis Elizabeth LLC and Actavis, Inc. from the case. The
claims against Par Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Osmotica and Norwich remain. In addition, in September 2013, Par and Osmotica filed counterclaims against Janssen seeking
declarations of invalidity and noninfringement of the patent-in-suit, and Norwich filed a motion to dismiss.
NUCYNTA® AND NUCYNTA® ER
In July 2013, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (JPI) filed patent infringement lawsuits in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against Actavis
Elizabeth LLC, Actavis Inc. and Actavis LLC (collectively, Actavis), as well as Alkem Laboratories Limited and Ascend Laboratories, LLC (collectively, Alkem). The
patent infringement claims against Actavis and Alkem relate to their respective ANDAs seeking approval to market a generic version of NUCYNTA® ER before the
expiration of United States Reissue Patent No. 39,593 (the '593 patent), United States Patent No. 7,994,364 (the '364 patent) and, as to Actavis only, United States Patent
No. 8,309,060 (the '060 patent). The lawsuit also includes a patent infringement claim against Alkem in response to its ANDA seeking approval to market a generic
version of NUCYNTA® before the expiration of the '593 and '364 patents. JPI is seeking an Order enjoining the defendants from marketing their generic versions of
NUCYNTA® ER and NUCYNTA® before the expiration of the asserted patents. In October 2013, JPI received a Paragraph IV Notice from Sandoz, Inc. with respect to
NUCYNTA® related to the ‘364 patent, and a Paragraph IV Notice from Roxane Laboratories, Inc. (Roxane) with respect to NUCYNTA® related to the ‘593 and ‘364
patents and United States Patent No. 6,071,970. In response to those notices, JPI filed an additional complaint in the United States District Court for the District of
New Jersey against Roxane and Sandoz asserting the '364 patent against Sandoz and the '364 and '593 patents against Roxane. In December 2013, JPI filed an additional
complaint in the District Court of New Jersey against Alkem asserting United States Patent No. 8,536,130 related to its ANDA seeking approval to market a generic
version of NUCYNTA® ER.
OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY MATTERS
In December 2009, the State of Israel filed a lawsuit in the District Court in Tel Aviv Jaffa against Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. and various affiliates (Omrix). In the
lawsuit, the State claims that an employee of a government-owned hospital was the inventor on several patents related to fibrin glue technology that the employee
developed while he was a government employee. The State claims that he had no right to transfer any intellectual property to Omrix because it belongs to the State. The
State is seeking damages plus royalties on QUIXIL™ and EVICEL™ products, or alternatively, transfer of the patents to the State.
In March 2012, Noramco, Inc. (Noramco) moved to intervene in three patent infringement lawsuits filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District
of New York (SDNY) by Purdue Pharma L.P. and others (Purdue) against Noramco oxycodone customers, Impax Laboratories, Inc. (Impax), Teva Pharmaceuticals
USA, Inc. (Teva) and Amneal Pharmaceuticals, LLC (Amneal). In February 2013, Noramco appeared on behalf of Noramco customers Watson Laboratories, Inc. -
Florida and Andrx Labs, LLC (collectively, Watson/Andrx) in a similar lawsuit filed by Purdue in the SDNY. The lawsuits are in response to the defendants' respective
ANDAs seeking approval to market generic extended release oxycodone products before the expiration of certain Purdue patents. Three of the asserted patents relate to
oxycodone and processes for making oxycodone, and Noramco has agreed to defend the lawsuits on behalf of Impax, Teva, Amneal and Watson/Andrx. Although
Noramco did not participate, in November 2012, a trial in a lawsuit brought by Purdue against another Noramco customer, Actavis Elizabeth, LLC (Actavis), took place.
In April 2013, Actavis and Watson/Andrx entered into confidential settlements with Purdue. Subsequently, the Court dismissed the Actavis lawsuit as moot. The trial
against Impax and Teva (as well as two parties not defended by Noramco) took place in September 2013 and as discussed above, Noramco defended Teva and Impax. In
November 2013, Impax entered into a confidential settlement with Purdue. In January 2014, the Court issued a decision invalidating the relevant Purdue patents.
In May 2012, Hospira UK Limited (Hospira) filed a revocation proceeding against The Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology (Kennedy) challenging the validity of
European Patent (UK) Nos. 0914157, 1593393 and 1941904, which relate to REMICADE®. Janssen Biotech, Inc. (JBI) licenses those patents, as well as their foreign
counterparts, from Kennedy. Hospira
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 59was also seeking a declaration of non-infringement of those patents. In July 2013, the parties entered into a confidential settlement resolving this proceeding.
In March, May and June 2013, Hospira affiliates filed impeachment/revocation proceedings against Kennedy's Canadian, Finnish and Hong Kong counterpart patents,
respectively; however, the revocation proceedings in Finland and Hong Kong were withdrawn in July 2013. In the proceeding in Canada, in October 2013, Kennedy,
along with JBI, Janssen Inc. and Cilag GmbH International, filed a counterclaim for infringement against Hospira Healthcare Corporation, Celltrion Healthcare Co. Ltd
and Celltrion Inc. The counterclaim alleges that the products described in Celltrion’s and Hospira’s marketing application to Health Canada for their subsequent entry
biologics (SEB) to REMICADE® would infringe the Kennedy patents. In January 2014, Health Canada approved Celltrion’s and Hospira’s SEBs to REMICADE®.
In August 2012, Dr. James M. Swanson filed a lawsuit against ALZA Corporation (ALZA) in the Northern District of California seeking to be added as an inventor
on three ALZA-owned patents relating to CONCERTA®. Alternatively, Dr. Swanson has alleged, among other things, that the patents-in-suit are invalid and/or
unenforceable as a result of ALZA's alleged omission of Dr. Swanson as a named inventor on the patents. Dr. Swanson is seeking damages and an award of unjust
enrichment. ALZA filed a motion to dismiss Dr. Swanson's claims. The Court granted the motion in part, and denied it in part. Discovery in the case is ongoing.
In September 2013, Janssen Biotech, Inc. (JBI) and NYU Medical Center received an Office Action from the United States Patent Office rejecting the claims in a
co-owned patent relating to REMICADE® in a reexamination proceeding instituted by a third party. Currently, the affected patent in the United States expires in
September 2018. If, as a result of the reexamination, it is finally concluded that the patent is invalid, the patent could not be relied upon to prevent the introduction of
biosimilar versions of REMICADE® in the United States. The remaining Janssen/NYU REMICADE® patents, the latest to expire in December 2014, remain in full
force and effect. The timing of the possible introduction of a biosimilar version of REMICADE® would be subject to approval by the FDA. If a biosimilar version of
REMICADE® were to be approved, and introduced to the market, loss of exclusivity would likely result in a reduction in sales. JBI believes the REMICADE® patent in
question is valid and has responded to the Office Action to defend the patent, and if necessary, will pursue available appeals.
GOVERNMENT PROCEEDINGS
Like other companies in the pharmaceutical and medical devices and diagnostics industries, Johnson & Johnson and certain of its subsidiaries are subject to extensive
regulation by national, state and local government agencies in the United States and other countries in which they operate. As a result, interaction with government
agencies is ongoing. The most significant litigation brought by, and investigations conducted by, government agencies are listed below. It is possible that criminal
charges and substantial fines and/or civil penalties or damages could result from government investigations or litigation.
AVERAGE WHOLESALE PRICE (AWP) LITIGATION
Johnson & Johnson and several of its pharmaceutical subsidiaries (the J&J AWP Defendants), along with numerous other pharmaceutical companies, are defendants in a
series of lawsuits in state and federal courts involving allegations that the pricing and marketing of certain pharmaceutical products amounted to fraudulent and
otherwise actionable conduct because, among other things, the companies allegedly reported an inflated Average Wholesale Price (AWP) for the drugs at issue. Payors
alleged that they used those AWPs in calculating provider reimbursement levels. Many of these cases, both federal actions and state actions removed to federal court,
were consolidated for pre-trial purposes in a Multi-District Litigation (MDL) in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts.
The plaintiffs in these cases included three classes of private persons or entities that paid for any portion of the purchase of the drugs at issue based on AWP, and
state government entities that made Medicaid payments for the drugs at issue based on AWP. In June 2007, after a trial on the merits, the MDL Court dismissed the
claims of two of the plaintiff classes against the J&J AWP Defendants. In March 2011, the Court dismissed the claims of the third class against the J&J AWP
Defendants without prejudice.
AWP cases brought by various Attorneys General have proceeded to trial against other manufacturers. Several state cases against certain subsidiaries of Johnson &
Johnson have been settled, including those filed by Kentucky, Kansas, Mississippi and Louisiana. The case filed by Illinois is set for trial in May 2014, and the Alaska
case is set for trial in July 2014. Other state cases are likely to be set for trial in due course. In addition, an AWP case against the J&J AWP Defendants brought by the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania was tried in Commonwealth Court in October and November 2010. The Court found in the Commonwealth's favor with regard to
certain of its claims under the Pennsylvania Unfair Trade Practices and Consumer Protection Law (“UTPL”), entered an injunction, and awarded $45 million in
restitution and $6.5 million in civil penalties. The Court found in the J&J AWP Defendants' favor on the Commonwealth's claims of unjust enrichment,
misrepresentation/fraud, civil conspiracy, and on certain of the Commonwealth's claims under the UTPL. The J&J AWP Defendants have appealed the Commonwealth
Court's UTPL ruling to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court. The Company believes that the J&J AWP Defendants have strong arguments supporting their appeal. Because
the Company believes that the potential for an unfavorable outcome is not probable, it has not established an accrual with respect to the verdict.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 60RISPERDAL®
Beginning in January 2004, Janssen Pharmaceutica Inc. (Janssen Pharmaceutica) (now Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (JPI)) received subpoenas from the Office of the
Inspector General of the United States Office of Personnel Management, the Department of Justice and the United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania seeking documents concerning sales and marketing of, payments to physicians in connection with sales and marketing of, and clinical trials for,
RISPERDAL®. Numerous subpoenas seeking testimony from various witnesses before a grand jury were also received. JPI cooperated in responding to these requests
for documents and witnesses. The United States Department of Justice and the United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (the Government)
were pursuing both criminal and civil actions concerning these matters. In February 2010, the Government served Civil Investigative Demands seeking additional
information relating to sales and marketing of RISPERDAL® and sales and marketing of INVEGA®. The focus of these matters was the alleged promotion of
RISPERDAL® and INVEGA® for off-label uses. The Government had also notified JPI that there were pending qui tam actions alleging off-label promotion of
RISPERDAL® in which the Government planned to intervene.
In 2011, discussions to resolve criminal penalties under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act related to the promotion of RISPERDAL® resulted in an agreement in
principle with the United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania on key issues relevant to a disposition of criminal charges pursuant to a single
misdemeanor violation of the Food Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The settlement agreement was finalized in November 2013. Under its terms, JPI pled guilty to a single
misdemeanor violation of the Food, Drug & Cosmetic Act and paid $400 million.
In 2012, the Company reached an agreement in principle with the United States Department of Justice to settle three civil False Claims Act matters pending in (1)
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania concerning sales and marketing of RISPERDAL® and INVEGA®; (2) the Northern District of California regarding the sales and
marketing of NATRECOR®, discussed separately below; and (3) the District of Massachusetts alleging that the defendants provided the Omnicare, Inc. (Omnicare)
long-term care pharmacy with rebates and other payments regarding RISPERDAL® and other products, discussed separately below. These settlement agreements were
finalized in November 2013. Under the terms of the settlements, the Company paid an amount of approximately $1.6 billion. The Company also entered into a five-year
corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services. These civil settlements resolved the federal
government's claims under the federal False Claims Act, resolved all pending state and federal government litigation regarding Omnicare and NATRECOR® (described
below), and settled the RISPERDAL® Medicaid-related claims for the states that participated in the relevant settlement. To the extent any state has an outstanding
Medicaid-related claim not resolved by these settlements, the Company has accrued an amount approximately equal to what that state would have received if it had
participated in the relevant federal settlement.
In addition to the federal actions, the Attorneys General of several states brought actions against Janssen Pharmaceutica (now JPI), related to the sale and marketing
of RISPERDAL®, seeking one or more of the following remedies: reimbursement of Medicaid or other public funds for RISPERDAL® prescriptions written for off-label
use, compensation for treating their citizens for alleged adverse reactions to RISPERDAL®, civil fines or penalties, for violations of state false claims acts or consumer
fraud statutes, punitive damages, or other relief relating to alleged unfair business practices. Certain of these actions also sought injunctive relief relating to the
promotion of RISPERDAL®. The Attorneys General of multiple other states and the District of Columbia were pursuing investigations and potentially similar litigation
against JPI. Many of the actions and claims brought by the state Attorneys General have been settled, either individually or as part of the federal settlements described
above.
Following the federal and state settlements described above, as of year-end 2013, five states had remaining claims in litigation related to RISPERDAL®. Three of
these (Arkansas, Louisiana, and South Carolina) are on appeal, and two (Kentucky and Mississippi) have not progressed to trial. The Company has not accrued amounts
equal to the judgments obtained in the three cases on appeal. State cases that went to judgment after trial are discussed below.
In 2004, the Attorney General of West Virginia commenced a lawsuit against Janssen Pharmaceutica (now JPI) based on claims of alleged consumer fraud as to
DURAGESIC®, as well as RISPERDAL®. JPI was found liable and damages were assessed at $4.5 million. JPI filed an appeal, and in November 2010, the West
Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals reversed the trial court's decision. In December 2010, the Attorney General of West Virginia dismissed the case as it related to
RISPERDAL® without any payment. Thereafter, JPI settled the case insofar as it related to DURAGESIC®.
In 2004, the Attorney General of Louisiana filed a multi-count Complaint against Janssen Pharmaceutica (now JPI). Johnson & Johnson was later added as a
defendant. The case was tried in October 2010. The issue tried to the jury was whether Johnson & Johnson or JPI had violated the State's Medical Assistance Program
Integrity Law (the Act) through misrepresentations allegedly made in the mailing of a November 2003 Dear Health Care Professional letter regarding RISPERDAL®.
The jury returned a verdict that JPI and Johnson & Johnson had violated the Act and awarded $257.7 million in damages. The trial judge subsequently awarded the
Attorney General counsel fees and expenses in the amount of $73 million. In August 2012, an intermediate appellate court affirmed the judgment. This judgment was
appealed, and in January 2014, the Louisiana Supreme Court reversed the district court’s judgment in favor of the Attorney General, and rendered judgment in favor of
Johnson & Johnson and JPI. The Attorney General has filed a petition seeking a rehearing of the appellate arguments.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 61In 2007, the Office of General Counsel of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania filed a lawsuit against Janssen Pharmaceutica (now JPI) on a multi-Count Complaint
related to Janssen Pharmaceutica's sale of RISPERDAL® to the Commonwealth's Medicaid program. The trial occurred in June 2010. The trial judge dismissed the case
after the close of the plaintiff's evidence. The Commonwealth filed an appeal and in July 2012, the Pennsylvania Appeals Court upheld the dismissal of the
Commonwealth's case.
In 2007, the Attorney General of South Carolina filed a lawsuit against Johnson & Johnson and Janssen Pharmaceutica (now JPI) on several counts. In March 2011,
the matter was tried to a jury on liability only, at which time the lawsuit was limited to claims of violation of the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act, including,
among others, questions of whether Johnson & Johnson or JPI engaged in unfair or deceptive acts or practices in the conduct of any trade or commerce by distributing
the November 2003 Dear Health Care Professional letter regarding RISPERDAL® or in their use of the product's FDA-approved label. The jury found in favor of
Johnson & Johnson and against JPI. In June 2011, the Court awarded civil penalties of approximately $327.1 million against JPI. JPI has appealed this judgment and the
Company believes it has strong arguments supporting the appeal. Oral argument on the appeal took place before the South Carolina Supreme Court in March 2013 and
the parties are awaiting a decision.
In April 2012, in the lawsuit brought by the Attorney General of Arkansas, the jury found against both JPI and Johnson & Johnson, and the Court imposed penalties
in the amount of approximately $1.2 billion. In January 2013, the trial court awarded attorney fees of approximately $181 million. JPI and Johnson & Johnson have filed
appeals from both awards and believe they have strong arguments in support of the appeals. Oral argument on the appeal has been scheduled for February 2014.
OMNICARE
In September 2005, Johnson & Johnson received a subpoena from the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts, seeking documents related to the
sales and marketing of eight drugs to Omnicare, Inc. (Omnicare), a manager of pharmaceutical benefits for long-term care facilities. In April 2009, Johnson & Johnson
and certain of its pharmaceutical subsidiaries were served in two civil qui tam cases asserting claims under the Federal False Claims Act and related state law claims
alleging that the defendants provided Omnicare with rebates and other alleged kickbacks, causing Omnicare to file false claims with Medicaid and other government
programs. In January 2010, the government intervened in both of these cases, naming Johnson & Johnson, Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (now Janssen
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (JPI)), and Johnson & Johnson Health Care Systems Inc. as defendants. Subsequently, the Commonwealths of Massachusetts, Virginia, and
Kentucky, and the States of California and Indiana intervened in the action. In February 2011, the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts
dismissed one qui tam case entirely and dismissed the other case in part, rejecting allegations that the defendants had violated their obligation to report their “best price”
to health care program officials. The remaining claims of the United States and intervening states were resolved in November 2013 as part of the federal civil settlements
discussed in the RISPERDAL® section above.
NATRECOR®
In July 2005, Scios Inc. (Scios) received a subpoena from the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts, seeking documents related to the sales
and marketing of NATRECOR®. In August 2005, Scios was advised that the investigation would be handled by the United States Attorney's Office for the Northern
District of California in San Francisco. In February 2009, two qui tam complaints were unsealed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of
California, alleging, among other things, improper activities in the promotion of NATRECOR®. In June 2009, the United States government intervened in one of the qui
tam actions, and filed a complaint against Scios and Johnson & Johnson seeking relief under the Federal False Claims Act and asserting a claim of unjust enrichment. In
October 2011, a criminal matter related to NATRECOR® was resolved. The remaining civil case was resolved in November 2013 as part of the federal civil settlements
discussed in the RISPERDAL® section above.
MCNEIL CONSUMER HEALTHCARE
Starting in June 2010, McNeil Consumer Healthcare Division of McNEIL-PPC, Inc. (McNeil Consumer Healthcare) and certain affiliates, including Johnson & Johnson
(the Companies), received grand jury subpoenas from the United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania requesting documents broadly relating
to recalls of various products of McNeil Consumer Healthcare, and the FDA inspections of the Fort Washington, Pennsylvania and Lancaster, Pennsylvania
manufacturing facilities, as well as certain documents relating to recalls of a small number of products of other subsidiaries. In addition, in February 2011, the
government served McNEIL-PPC, Inc. (McNEIL-PPC) with a Civil Investigative Demand seeking records relevant to its investigation to determine if there was a
violation of the Federal False Claims Act. The grand jury and False Claims investigations are continuing. The Companies are cooperating with the United States
Attorney's Office in responding to these investigations.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 62The Companies have also received Civil Investigative Demands from multiple State Attorneys General Offices broadly relating to the McNeil recall issues. The
Companies continue to cooperate with these inquiries, which are being coordinated through a multi-state coalition. If a resolution cannot be reached with this multi-state
coalition, it is possible that individual State Attorneys General Offices may file civil money claims against the Companies. In January 2011, the Oregon Attorney
General filed a civil complaint against Johnson & Johnson, McNEIL-PPC and McNeil Healthcare LLC in state court alleging civil violations of the Oregon Unlawful
Trade Practices Act relating to an earlier recall of a McNeil OTC product. In November 2012, the state court granted a motion by the Companies to dismiss Oregon's
complaint in its entirety, with prejudice. In December 2012, Oregon filed a Notice of Appeal in the Court of Appeals of the State of Oregon. Briefing on the appeal has
concluded and the Court has not set a hearing date.
In March 2011, the United States filed a complaint for injunctive relief in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against
McNEIL-PPC and two of its employees, alleging that McNEIL-PPC is in violation of FDA regulations regarding the manufacture of drugs at the facilities it operates in
Lancaster, Pennsylvania, Fort Washington, Pennsylvania, and Las Piedras, Puerto Rico. On the same day, the parties filed a consent decree of permanent injunction
resolving the claims set forth in the complaint. The Court approved and entered the consent decree on March 16, 2011.
The consent decree, which is subject to ongoing enforcement by the Court, requires McNEIL-PPC to take enhanced measures to remediate the three facilities. The
Fort Washington facility, which was voluntarily shut down in April 2010, will remain shut down until a third-party consultant certifies that its operations will be in
compliance with applicable law, and the FDA concurs with the third-party certification. The Lancaster and Las Piedras facilities may continue to manufacture and
distribute drugs, provided that a third party reviews manufacturing records for selected batches of drugs released from the facilities, and certifies that any deviations
reviewed do not adversely affect the quality of the selected batches. McNEIL-PPC submitted a workplan to the FDA for remediation of the Lancaster and Las Piedras
facilities, and that plan was approved by the FDA in October 2012. Third-party batch record review may cease if the FDA has stated that the facilities appear to be in
compliance with applicable law. Each facility is subject to a five-year audit period by a third party after the facility has been deemed by the FDA to be in apparent
compliance with applicable law.
OTHER
In June 2008, Johnson & Johnson received a subpoena from the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts relating to the marketing of biliary
stents by Cordis Corporation (Cordis). In February 2012, the government informed Cordis that it was closing its investigation. In addition, in January 2010, a complaint
was unsealed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas, filed by Kevin Colquitt, seeking damages against Cordis and other parties for alleged
violations of the Federal False Claims Act and several similar state laws in connection with the marketing of biliary stents. The United States Department of Justice and
several states declined to intervene. In January 2013, the Court granted Cordis's motion to dismiss the claims against Cordis, with prejudice. Plaintiff appealed, and in
May 2013, Plaintiff dismissed his appeal, concluding the matter.
In September 2011, Synthes, Inc. (Synthes) received a Civil Investigative Demand issued pursuant to the False Claims Act from the United States Attorney's Office
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The Demand sought information regarding allegations that fellowships had been offered to hospitals in exchange for agreements
to purchase products. Synthes has produced documents and information in response to the Demand and is cooperating with the inquiry.
In October 2011, the European Commission (EC) announced that it opened an investigation concerning an agreement between Janssen-Cilag B.V. (Janssen-Cilag)
and Sandoz B.V. relating to the supply of fentanyl patches in the Netherlands and whether the agreement infringes European competition law. In January 2013, the EC
issued a Statement of Objections setting out facts regarding a potential violation of EU antitrust laws. Janssen-Cilag has submitted its response to the Statement of
Objections. In December 2013, the EC issued its decision imposing a fine of approximately €10.8 million on Janssen-Cilag. Janssen-Cilag will not appeal the decision.
In April 2012, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (JPI) received a letter requesting certain documents from the United States Department of Justice relating to the
marketing and promotion of DORIBAX®. In 2012, JPI provided documents and will continue to cooperate with any further inquiries if and when they are received.
In May 2012, Acclarent, Inc. (Acclarent) received a subpoena from the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts requesting documents
broadly relating to the sales, marketing and promotion by Acclarent of RELIEVA STRATUS™ MicroFlow Spacer products. Acclarent is cooperating with the United
States Attorney's Office in responding to the subpoena.
In August 2012, DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc., DePuy, Inc. (now DePuy Synthes, Inc. (DePuy Synthes)), and Johnson & Johnson Services, Inc. received an informal
request from the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts and the Civil Division of the United States Department of Justice for the production of
materials relating to the ASR™ XL Hip device. The government has since made additional informal requests for the production of documents as to the device. The
government is investigating whether any person or entity submitted or caused to be submitted false claims or false statements affecting federal health care programs in
connection with the marketing and use of the ASR™ XL Hip device. DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc., DePuy Synthes, and Johnson & Johnson Services, Inc. have voluntarily
produced documents in response to
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 63the government's informal requests and are fully cooperating with the government's civil investigation. In addition, the Company has received Civil Investigative
Demands from a group of state Attorneys General relating to the development, sales and marketing of several of DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc.’s hip products. At least one
state Attorney General has informed the Company of the intention to investigate these matters independently of the multi-state group. The Company is responding to
these demands.
In October 2012, Johnson & Johnson was contacted by the California Attorney General's office regarding a multi-state Attorney General investigation of the marketing
of surgical mesh products for hernia and urogynecological purposes by Johnson & Johnson's subsidiary, Ethicon, Inc. (Ethicon). Johnson & Johnson and Ethicon have
since entered into a tolling agreement with the 44 states participating in the multi-state investigation and are in the process of responding to Civil Investigative Demands
served by certain of the participating states.
In December 2012, Therakos, Inc. (Therakos), formerly a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson and part of the Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc. (OCD) franchise,
received a letter from the civil division of the United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania informing Therakos that the United States
Attorney's Office was investigating the sales and marketing of UVADEX® (methoxsalen) and the UVAR XTS® System during the period 2000 to the present. The United
States Attorney's Office requested that OCD and Johnson & Johnson preserve documents that could relate to the investigation. Therakos was subsequently acquired by
an affiliate of Gores Capital Partners III, L.P. OCD and Johnson & Johnson retain certain liabilities that may result from the investigation for activity that occurred prior
to the sale of Therakos, and have taken appropriate steps to retain potentially relevant documents and will cooperate with the United States Attorney's Office's
investigation with respect to such activity.
In May 2013, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (JPI) received a subpoena from the Atlanta Regional Office of the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of
Inspector General, seeking production of documents and information regarding: (1) the sales, marketing and promotional practices, including the remuneration of
healthcare providers, related to NUCYNTA® IR and NUCYNTA® ER; and (2) any studies, reports and/or complaints regarding the safety and/or actual or potential side
effects of NUCYNTA® IR and NUCYNTA® ER. JPI is in the process of responding to the subpoena.
In recent years, Johnson & Johnson has received numerous requests from a variety of United States Congressional Committees to produce information relevant to
ongoing congressional inquiries. It is the policy of Johnson & Johnson to cooperate with these inquiries by producing the requested information.
GENERAL LITIGATION
In June 2009, following the public announcement that Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc. (OCD) had received a grand jury subpoena from the United States Department of
Justice, Antitrust Division, in connection with an investigation that has since been closed, multiple class action complaints were filed against OCD by direct purchasers
seeking damages for alleged price fixing. These cases were consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
as In re Blood Reagent Antitrust Litigation. In August 2012, the District Court granted a motion filed by Plaintiffs for class certification. In October 2012, the United
States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit granted OCD's petition for interlocutory review of the class certification ruling. Oral argument on the appeal was held in
February 2014 and the parties are awaiting a decision.
In September 2010, a shareholder, Ronald Monk, filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey seeking class certification and
alleging that Johnson & Johnson and certain individuals, including executive officers and employees of Johnson & Johnson, failed to disclose that a number of
manufacturing facilities failed to maintain current good manufacturing practices, and that as a result, the price of the Company's stock declined significantly. Plaintiff
sought to pursue remedies under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to recover his alleged economic losses. In December 2011, a motion by Johnson & Johnson to
dismiss was granted in part and denied in part. Plaintiff moved the Court to reconsider part of the December 2011 ruling. In May 2012, the Court denied Plaintiff's
motion for reconsideration. In September 2012, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint and Johnson & Johnson and the individual defendants moved to dismiss
Plaintiff's Second Amended Complaint in part. Following mediation, the parties reached an agreement in principle to settle the case, and in July 2013, filed for
preliminary approval of the proposed settlement. In November 2013, the Court approved the settlement. Three parties that had objected to the settlement have appealed
the Court’s approval orders.
In April 2011, OMJ Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (OMJ PR) filed a lawsuit against the United States in United States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico alleging
overpayment of federal income taxes for the tax years ended November 30, 1999 and November 30, 2000. If OMJ PR loses this lawsuit, it may face liability for
subsequent tax years. OMJ PR alleges that the Internal Revenue Service erroneously calculated OMJ PR's tax credits under Section 936 of the Tax Code. OMJ PR filed
a motion for summary judgment, and the United States filed a cross motion for summary judgment. In October 2012, the Court granted a motion by the United States for
summary judgment and denied a motion by OMJ PR for summary judgment. OMJ PR has appealed this decision. Oral argument was held in November 2013.
In August 2011, an arbitration panel ruled that Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation (Tanabe), Janssen Biotech, Inc.'s (JBI's) distributor of REMICADE® in Japan,
could seek to modify the proportion of net sales revenue that Tanabe must remit to JBI in exchange for distribution rights and commercial supply of REMICADE® (the
Supply Price). Tanabe commenced the
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 64arbitration against Centocor Ortho Biotech, Inc. (now JBI) in 2009 pursuant to the parties' distribution agreement, which grants Tanabe the right to distribute
REMICADE® in Japan and certain other parts of Asia. JBI counterclaimed for an increase in the Supply Price. A hearing was held in November 2011 to determine the
appropriate split of revenue. In February 2013, the arbitration panel determined that the Supply Price should be modified in favor of Tanabe, and in July 2013 issued its
Final Award. The Company previously accrued an amount to cover the impact of the arbitration decision.
In September 2011, Johnson & Johnson, Johnson & Johnson Inc. and McNeil Consumer Healthcare Division of Johnson & Johnson Inc. received a Notice of Civil
Claim filed by Nick Field in the Supreme Court of British Columbia, Canada (the BC Civil Claim). The BC Civil Claim is a putative class action brought on behalf of
persons who reside in British Columbia and who purchased during the period between September 20, 2001 and the present one or more various McNeil infants' or
children's over-the-counter medicines that were manufactured at the Fort Washington facility. The BC Civil Claim alleges that the defendants violated the BC Business
Practices and Consumer Protection Act, and other Canadian statutes and common laws, by selling medicines that were allegedly not safe and/or effective or did not
comply with Canadian Good Manufacturing Practices. The class certification hearing is scheduled for April 2014.
Johnson & Johnson or its subsidiaries are also parties to a number of proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, and comparable state, local or foreign laws in which the primary relief sought is the cost of past and/or future
remediation.
SHAREHOLDER DERIVATIVE ACTIONS
Starting in April 2010, a number of shareholder derivative lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey against certain current
and former directors and officers of Johnson & Johnson. Johnson & Johnson is named as a nominal defendant. These actions were consolidated in August 2010 into In
re Johnson & Johnson DerivativeLitigation. Additionally, in September 2010, another shareholder derivative lawsuit was filed by Michael Wolin in New Jersey
Superior Court against certain current and former directors and officers of Johnson & Johnson. Johnson & Johnson is named as a nominal defendant in this action as
well. The parties to this action have stipulated that it shall be stayed until the In re Johnson & Johnson Derivative Litigation is completely resolved.
Collectively, these shareholder derivative actions assert a variety of alleged breaches of fiduciary duties, including, among other things, that the defendants allegedly
engaged in, approved of, or failed to remedy or prevent defective medical devices, improper pharmaceutical rebates, improper off-label marketing of pharmaceutical and
medical device products, violations of current good manufacturing practice regulations that resulted in product recalls, and that the defendants failed to disclose the
aforementioned alleged misconduct in the Company's filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Each complaint seeks a variety of relief, including monetary
damages and corporate governance reforms. Johnson & Johnson moved to dismiss these actions on the grounds, inter alia, that the plaintiffs failed to make a demand
upon the Board of Directors. In September 2011, In re Johnson & Johnson Derivative Litigation was dismissed without prejudice and with leave to file an amended
complaint.
Johnson & Johnson filed a report in the In re Johnson & Johnson Derivative Litigation matter in July 2011, prepared by a Special Committee of the Board of
Directors of Johnson & Johnson (the Special Committee), which investigated the allegations contained in the derivative actions and in a number of shareholder demand
letters that the Board of Directors of Johnson & Johnson (the Board) received in 2010 raising similar issues. The Special Committee was assisted in its investigation by
independent counsel. The Special Committee's report recommended: i) that Johnson & Johnson reject the shareholder demands and take whatever steps are necessary or
appropriate to secure dismissal of the derivative litigation, and ii) that the Board create a new Regulatory and Compliance Committee charged with responsibility for
monitoring and oversight of the Company's Health Care Compliance and Quality & Compliance systems and issues. The Board unanimously adopted the Special
Committee's recommendations, and in April 2012, the Board created the Regulatory, Compliance & Government Affairs Committee.
In August 2011, two shareholders who had submitted shareholder demand letters in 2010 filed shareholder derivative lawsuits in the United States District Court for
the District of New Jersey naming various current and former officers and directors as defendants and challenging the Board's rejection of their demands. In November
2011, the Court consolidated these two cases into Copeland v. Prince.
Two additional shareholder derivative lawsuits were filed in May 2011 in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, and two other shareholder
derivative lawsuits were filed in New Jersey Superior Court in May 2011 and August 2011, all naming current directors of Johnson & Johnson as defendants and
Johnson & Johnson as the nominal defendant. The complaints allege breaches of fiduciary duties related to the Company's compliance with the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act and participation in the United Nations Iraq Oil For Food Program, that the Company has suffered damages as a result of those alleged breaches, and that
the defendants failed to disclose the alleged misconduct in the Company's filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Plaintiffs seek monetary damages, and the
state court plaintiffs also seek corporate governance reforms. The federal lawsuits were consolidated in July 2011 into In re J&J FCPA Derivative Shareholder
Litigation. The state lawsuits were consolidated in November 2011 into In re J&JShareholder Derivative Litigation. In May 2012, the Court granted a motion by
Johnson & Johnson to stay the state lawsuits pending resolution of In re J&J FCPA Derivative Shareholder Litigation.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 65In July 2012, the parties in each of the shareholder derivative cases pending in federal court discussed above (specifically, In reJohnson & Johnson Derivative
Litigation, Copeland v. Prince, and In re J&J FCPA Derivative ShareholderLitigation) filed a Stipulation of Settlement (the Settlement) to permanently resolve all of the
actions in their entirety. In October 2012, the Settlement was approved by the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. In November 2012, a notice of
appeal was filed in the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit by a shareholder who objected to the approval of the Settlement in the District Court on the
grounds that the lawsuit and the Settlement did not provide any benefit to the Company, and that plaintiffs' counsel had requested an excessive fee award. The appellant
requested a stay of the proceeding pending a decision from the District Court concerning the fee award. The Third Circuit granted a stay of the proceedings. In
November 2013, the District Court entered its order concerning the fee award. In January 2014, the appellant moved to voluntarily dismiss the appeal with prejudice and
the Third Circuit dismissed the appeal.
In September 2011, two additional shareholder derivative lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey by Donovan Spamer
and The George Leon Family Trust naming current and former directors of Johnson & Johnson as defendants and Johnson & Johnson as the nominal defendant. These
lawsuits allege that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties in their decisions with respect to the compensation of the Chief Executive Officer during the period
from 2008 through 2011, and that the defendants made misleading statements in the Company's annual proxy statements. Both of these lawsuits were voluntarily
dismissed without prejudice, but a similar lawsuit, The George Leon Family Trust v. Coleman, was refiled in July 2012. That lawsuit seeks a variety of relief, including
monetary damages, injunctive relief, and corporate governance reforms. The Settlement, described above, does not resolve these potential claims. In June 2013, the
Board of Directors of Johnson & Johnson (the Board) received a report prepared by special, independent counsel to the Board, which investigated the allegations
contained in the derivative actions filed by Donovan Spamer and by The George Leon Family Trust, and in several shareholder demand letters that the Board received in
2011 and 2012 raising similar issues. The report recommended that Johnson & Johnson reject the shareholder demands and take whatever steps are necessary or
appropriate to secure dismissal of the derivative litigation. The Board unanimously adopted the report's recommendations.
In September 2013, Johnson & Johnson moved to dismiss or, in the alternative, for summary judgment in The George Leon Family Trust v. Coleman, based upon
the Board’s determination. In October 2013 the plaintiff in the Leon litigation filed an amended complaint. In November 2013, Johnson & Johnson moved to dismiss the
amended complaint or, in the alternative, for summary judgment, based upon the Board’s determination.
22. Restructuring
In 2011, Cordis Corporation, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, announced the discontinuation of its clinical development program for the NEVO™ Sirolimus-Eluting
Coronary Stent and cessation of the manufacture and marketing of CYPHER® and CYPHER SELECT® Plus Sirolimus-Eluting Coronary Stents by the end of 2011. The
Company recorded a pre-tax charge of $0.7 billion, of which $0.1 billion was included in cost of products sold. The Cordis restructuring program has been substantially
completed. The restructuring charge was recorded in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 66Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Johnson & Johnson:
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of earnings, statements of comprehensive income, statements of
equity, and statements of cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries at December 29, 2013 and
December 30, 2012, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 29, 2013 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 29, 2013, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (1992) issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
"Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting." Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company's
internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial
statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness
to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
New York, New York
February 21, 2014
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 67Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management is required to assess the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as
of the end of each fiscal year and report, based on that assessment, whether the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is effective.
Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. The Company’s internal control over
financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the Company’s financial reporting and the preparation of external financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Internal controls over financial reporting, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, internal control over financial reporting determined to
be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and may not prevent or detect all misstatements. Moreover, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
The Company’s management has assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 29, 2013. In making this
assessment, the Company used the criteria established by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in “Internal Control-
Integrated Framework (1992).” These criteria are in the areas of control environment, risk assessment, control activities, information and communication, and
monitoring. The Company’s assessment included extensive documenting, evaluating and testing the design and operating effectiveness of its internal controls over
financial reporting.
Based on the Company’s processes and assessment, as described above, management has concluded that, as of December 29, 2013, the Company’s internal control
over financial reporting was effective.
The effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 29, 2013 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report, which appears herein.
/s/ Alex Gorsky /s/ Dominic J. Caruso
Alex Gorsky Dominic J. Caruso
Chairman, Board of Directors Vice President, Finance
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 68Summary of Operations and Statistical Data 2003-2013
(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share
Amounts) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
Sales to customers — U.S. $31,910 29,830 28,908 29,450 30,889 32,309 32,444 29,775 28,377 27,770 25,274
Sales to customers — International 39,402 37,394 36,122 32,137 31,008 31,438 28,651 23,549 22,137 19,578 16,588
Total sales 71,312 67,224 65,030 61,587 61,897 63,747 61,095 53,324 50,514 47,348 41,862
Cost of products sold 22,342 21,658 20,360 18,792 18,447 18,511 17,751 15,057 14,010 13,474 12,231
Selling, marketing and administrative
expenses 21,830 20,869 20,969 19,424 19,801 21,490 20,451 17,433 17,211 16,174 14,463
Research and development expense 8,183 7,665 7,548 6,844 6,986 7,577 7,680 7,125 6,462 5,344 4,834
In-process research and development 580 1,163 — — — 181 807 559 362 18 918
Interest income (74) (64) (91) (107) (90) (361) (452) (829) (487) (195) (177)
Interest expense, net of portion capitalized 482 532 571 455 451 435 296 63 54 187 207
Other (income) expense, net 2,498 1,626 2,743 (768) (526) (1,015) 534 (671) (214) 15 (385)
Restructuring — — 569 — 1,073 — 745 — — — —
55,841 53,449 52,669 44,640 46,142 46,818 47,812 38,737 37,398 35,017 32,091
Earnings before provision for taxes on
income $15,471 13,775 12,361 16,947 15,755 16,929 13,283 14,587 13,116 12,331 9,771
Provision for taxes on income 1,640 3,261 2,689 3,613 3,489 3,980 2,707 3,534 3,056 4,151 2,923
Net earnings 13,831 10,514 9,672 13,334 12,266 12,949 10,576 11,053 10,060 8,180 6,848
Add: Net loss attributable to
noncontrolling interest — 339 — — — — — — — — —
Net earnings attributable to Johnson &
Johnson 13,831 10,853 9,672 13,334 12,266 12,949 10,576 11,053 10,060 8,180 6,848
Percent of sales to customers 19.4% 16.1 14.9 21.7 19.8 20.3 17.3 20.7 19.9 17.3 16.4
Diluted net earnings per share of common
stock (1) $ 4.81 3.86 3.49 4.78 4.40 4.57 3.63 3.73 3.35 2.74 2.29
Percent return on average shareholders’
equity 19.9% 17.8 17.0 24.9 26.4 30.2 25.6 28.3 28.2 27.3 27.1
Percent increase (decrease) over
previous year:
Sales to customers 6.1% 3.4 5.6 (0.5) (2.9) 4.3 14.6 5.6 6.7 13.1 15.3
Diluted net earnings per share 24.6% 10.6 (27.0) 8.6 (3.7) 25.9 (2.7) 11.3 22.3 19.7 11.2
Supplementary balance sheet data:
Property, plant and equipment, net 16,710 16,097 14,739 14,553 14,759 14,365 14,185 13,044 10,830 10,436 9,846
Additions to property, plant and
equipment 3,595 2,934 2,893 2,384 2,365 3,066 2,942 2,666 2,632 2,175 2,262
Total assets 132,683 121,347 113,644 102,908 94,682 84,912 80,954 70,556 58,864 54,039 48,858
Long-term debt 13,328 11,489 12,969 9,156 8,223 8,120 7,074 2,014 2,017 2,565 2,955
Operating cash flow 17,414 15,396 14,298 16,385 16,571 14,972 15,022 14,248 11,799 11,089 10,571
Common stock information
Dividends paid per share $ 2.590 2.400 2.250 2.110 1.930 1.795 1.620 1.455 1.275 1.095 0.925
Shareholders’ equity per share 26.25 23.33 20.95 20.66 18.37 15.35 15.25 13.59 13.01 10.95 9.25
Market price per share (year-end close) $ 92.35 69.48 65.58 61.85 64.41 58.56 67.38 66.02 60.10 63.42 50.62
Average shares outstanding (millions)
— basic 2,809.2 2,753.3 2,736.0 2,751.4 2,759.5 2,802.5 2,882.9 2,936.4 2,973.9 2,968.4 2,968.1
— diluted 2,877.0 2,812.6 2,775.3 2,788.8 2,789.1 2,835.6 2,910.7 2,961.0 3,002.8 2,992.7 2,995.1
Employees (thousands) 128.1 127.6 117.9 114.0 115.5 118.7 119.2 122.2 115.6 109.9 110.6
(1) Attributable to Johnson & Johnson.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 69Shareholder Return Performance Graphs
Set forth below are line graphs comparing the cumulative total shareholder return on the Company’s Common Stock for periods of five years and ten years ending
December 31, 2013, against the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index, the Standard & Poor’s Pharmaceutical Index and the Standard &
Poor’s Health Care Equipment Index. The graphs and tables assume that $100 was invested on December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2003 in each of the Company’s
Common Stock, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index, the Standard & Poor’s Pharmaceutical Index and the Standard & Poor’s Health Care Equipment Index and that
all dividends were reinvested.
5-Year Cumulative Total Shareholder Return
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Johnson & Johnson $ 100.00 111.28 110.63 121.57 134.70 181.33
S&P 500 Index $ 100.00 126.47 145.52 148.59 172.37 228.17
S&P 500 Pharmaceutical Index $ 100.00 118.61 119.53 140.76 161.06 217.80
S&P 500 Healthcare Equipment Index $ 100.00 128.78 125.29 124.29 145.76 186.11
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 7010-Year Cumulative Total Shareholder Return
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Johnson & Johnson $ 100.00 125.17 120.96 136.02 140.93 129.98 144.64 143.79 158.02 175.08 235.59
S&P 500 Index $ 100.00 110.88 116.32 134.69 142.09 89.52 113.21 130.27 133.02 154.30 204.26
S&P 500 Pharmaceutical Index $ 100.00 92.57 89.46 103.64 108.46 88.73 105.24 106.05 124.89 142.91 193.25
S&P 500 Healthcare Equipment Index $ 100.00 112.62 112.68 117.33 123.35 89.25 114.94 111.82 110.93 130.09 166.10
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2013 ANNUAL REPORT 71EXHIBIT 21
SUBSIDIARIES
Johnson & Johnson, a New Jersey corporation, had the U.S. and international subsidiaries shown below as of December 29, 2013. Certain U.S. subsidiaries and
international subsidiaries are not named because they were not significant in the aggregate. Johnson & Johnson is not a subsidiary of any other entity.
Jurisdiction of
Name of Subsidiary Organization
U.S. Subsidiaries:
Acclarent, Inc. Delaware
ALZA Corporation Delaware
Animas Corporation Delaware
Aragon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Delaware
Biosense Webster, Inc. California
CNA Development LLC Delaware
Codman & Shurtleff, Inc. New Jersey
Cordis Corporation Florida
Cordis International Corporation Delaware
Cordis LLC Delaware
DePuy Mitek Holding Corporation Delaware
DePuy Mitek, LLC Massachusetts
DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. Indiana
DePuy Products, Inc. Indiana
DePuy Spine, LLC Ohio
DePuy Synthes Sales, Inc. Massachusetts
DePuy Synthes, Inc. Delaware
Diabetes Diagnostics, Inc. Delaware
Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. New Jersey
Ethicon Endo-Surgery, LLC Delaware
Ethicon LLC Delaware
Ethicon US, LLC Texas
Ethicon, Inc. New Jersey
Flexible Stenting Solutions, Inc. Delaware
J&J Holdings (Nevada), Inc. Nevada
Janssen Alzheimer Immunotherapy Research & Development, LLC Delaware
Janssen Biotech, Inc. Pennsylvania
Janssen Global Services, LLC New Jersey
Janssen Oncology, Inc. Delaware
Janssen Ortho LLC Delaware
Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Pennsylvania
Janssen Products, LP New Jersey
Janssen Research & Development, LLC New Jersey
Janssen Scientific Affairs, LLC New Jersey
Janssen Supply Group, LLC Pennsylvania
Janssen-Cilag Manufacturing, LLC Delaware
JJHC, LLC Delaware
JNJ International Investment LLC Delaware
Johnson & Johnson (Middle East) Inc. New Jersey
Johnson & Johnson Consumer Companies, Inc. New Jersey
Johnson & Johnson Development Corporation New Jersey
Johnson & Johnson Finance Corporation New Jersey
Johnson & Johnson Health Care Systems Inc. New Jersey
Johnson & Johnson International New Jersey
Johnson & Johnson Japan Inc. New Jersey
Johnson & Johnson Sales and Logistics Company, LLC New Jersey
Johnson & Johnson Services, Inc. New JerseyJurisdiction of
Name of Subsidiary Organization
Johnson & Johnson Urban Renewal Associates New Jersey
Johnson & Johnson Vision Care, Inc. Florida
JOM Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. Delaware
LifeScan LLC Delaware
LifeScan Products, LLC Delaware
LifeScan, Inc. California
McNeil Consumer Pharmaceuticals Co. New Jersey
McNeil Healthcare LLC Delaware
McNeil LA LLC Delaware
McNEIL MMP, LLC New Jersey
McNeil Nutritionals, LLC Delaware
McNEIL-PPC, Inc. New Jersey
Mentor Texas L.P. Delaware
Mentor Worldwide LLC Delaware
Micro Typing Systems, Inc. Florida
Micrus Endovascular LLC Delaware
Middlesex Assurance Company Limited Vermont
Neutrogena Corporation Delaware
Noramco, Inc. Georgia
OMJ Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Delaware
Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. Delaware
Ortho Biologics LLC Delaware
Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc. New York
Rutan Realty LLC New Jersey
Scios LLC Delaware
SterilMed, Inc. Minnesota
Synthes USA Products, LLC Delaware
Synthes USA, LLC Delaware
Synthes, Inc. Delaware
The Anspach Effort, LLC Florida
Wellness & Prevention, Inc. Michigan
International Subsidiaries:
Almaco Holding GmbH Switzerland
Apsis France
Apsis Germany GmbH Germany
Beijing Dabao Cosmetics Co., Ltd. China
Berna Biotech Korea Corporation Korea, Republic of
Berna Rhein B.V. Netherlands
Biosense Webster (Israel) Ltd. Israel
Cilag Advanced Technologies GmbH Switzerland
Cilag AG Switzerland
Cilag GmbH International Switzerland
Cilag Holding AG Switzerland
Cilag Pharmaceuticals GmbH Switzerland
Cilag Products GmbH Switzerland
Cordis de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. MexicoJurisdiction of
Name of Subsidiary Organization
Cordis Europa NV Netherlands
Corimmun GmbH Germany
Crucell Holland B.V. Netherlands
Crucell N.V. Netherlands
Crucell Sweden AB Sweden
Crucell Switzerland AG Switzerland
DePuy (Ireland) Ireland
DePuy France France
DePuy International (Holdings) Limited United Kingdom
DePuy International Limited United Kingdom
DePuy Medical Private Limited India
DePuy Motion Sarl Switzerland
DePuy Synthes Apollo Limited Ireland
DePuy Synthes Eos Limited Ireland
DePuy Synthes Gorgan Limited Ireland
DePuy Synthes Jason Limited Ireland
DePuy Synthes Leto S.A.R.L. Ireland
DePuy UK Holdings Limited United Kingdom
EES Holdings de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico
Ethicon France
Ethicon Ireland Ireland
Ethicon PR Holdings Ireland
Ethicon Women's Health & Urology Sarl Switzerland
Ethnor Farmaceutica, S.A. Venezuela
FMS Future Medical System SA Switzerland
GMED Healthcare BVBA Belgium
J.C. General Services CVBA Belgium
Janssen Alzheimer Immunotherapy Ireland
Janssen Alzheimer Immunotherapy (Holding) Limited Ireland
Janssen Biologics (Ireland) Ireland
Janssen Biologics B.V. Netherlands
Janssen Cilag Farmaceutica S.A. Argentina
Janssen de Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico
Janssen Inc. Canada
Janssen Infectious Diseases-Diagnostics BVBA Belgium
Janssen Korea Ltd. Korea, Republic of
Janssen Pharmaceutica NV Belgium
Janssen Pharmaceutical Ireland
Janssen Pharmaceutical Holdings Ireland
Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K. Japan
Janssen R&D Ireland Ireland
Janssen-Cilag France
Janssen-Cilag AB Sweden
Janssen-Cilag AG Switzerland
Janssen-Cilag B.V. Netherlands
Janssen-Cilag Farmaceutica Ltda. Brazil
Janssen-Cilag Farmaceutica, Lda. Portugal
Janssen-Cilag GmbH GermanyJurisdiction of
Name of Subsidiary Organization
Janssen Cilag Limited Thailand
Janssen-Cilag Limited United Kingdom
Janssen-Cilag NV Belgium
Janssen-Cilag OY Finland
Janssen-Cilag Pharma GmbH Austria
Janssen-Cilag Pharmaceutical S.A.C.I. Greece
Janssen-Cilag Pty Ltd Australia
Janssen-Cilag S.p.A. Italy
Janssen-Cilag, C.A. Venezuela
Janssen-Cilag, S.A. Spain
Janssen-Cilag, S.A. de C.V. Mexico
J-C Health Care Ltd. Israel
JJC Acquisition Company B.V. Netherlands
Johnson & Johnson (China) Investment Ltd. China
Johnson & Johnson (China) Ltd. China
Johnson & Johnson (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong
Johnson & Johnson (Ireland) Limited Ireland
Johnson & Johnson (New Zealand) Limited New Zealand
Johnson & Johnson (Philippines), Inc. Philippines
Johnson & Johnson (Proprietary) Limited South Africa
Johnson & Johnson (Thailand) Ltd. Thailand
Johnson & Johnson AB Sweden
Johnson & Johnson AG Switzerland
Johnson & Johnson Consumer (Thailand) Limited Thailand
Johnson & Johnson Consumer B.V. Netherlands
Johnson & Johnson Consumer Holdings France France
Johnson & Johnson Consumer Services EAME Ltd. United Kingdom
Johnson & Johnson de Argentina S.A.C. e. I. Argentina
Johnson & Johnson de Chile S.A. Chile
Johnson & Johnson de Colombia S.A. Colombia
Johnson & Johnson de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico
Johnson & Johnson de Venezuela, S.A. Venezuela
Johnson & Johnson del Ecuador S.A. Ecuador
Johnson & Johnson del Peru S.A. Peru
Johnson & Johnson do Brasil Industria E Comercio de Produtos Para Saude Ltda. Brazil
Johnson & Johnson European Treasury Company Ireland
Johnson & Johnson Finance Limited United Kingdom
Johnson & Johnson Financial Services GmbH Germany
Johnson & Johnson Gesellschaft m.b.H. Austria
Johnson & Johnson GmbH Germany
Johnson & Johnson Group Holdings GmbH Germany
Johnson & Johnson Hellas Commercial and Industrial S.A. Greece
Johnson & Johnson Holding GmbH Germany
Johnson & Johnson Inc. Canada
Johnson & Johnson Industrial Ltda. Brazil
Johnson & Johnson International Financial Services Company Ireland
Johnson & Johnson K.K. Japan
Johnson & Johnson Kft. HungaryJurisdiction of
Name of Subsidiary Organization
Johnson & Johnson Korea Selling & Distribution Limited Liability Company Korea, Republic of
Johnson & Johnson Korea, Ltd. Korea, Republic of
Johnson & Johnson Limitada Portugal
Johnson & Johnson Limited India
Johnson & Johnson Limited United Kingdom
Johnson & Johnson LLC Russian Federation
Johnson & Johnson Luxembourg Finance Company Sarl Luxembourg
Johnson & Johnson Management Limited United Kingdom
Johnson & Johnson Medical (China) Ltd. China
Johnson & Johnson Medical (Pty) Limited South Africa
Johnson & Johnson Medical (Shanghai) Ltd. China
Johnson & Johnson Medical (Suzhou) Ltd. China
Johnson & Johnson Medical B.V. Netherlands
Johnson & Johnson Medical GmbH Germany
Johnson & Johnson Medical Korea Limited Korea, Republic of
Johnson & Johnson Medical Limited United Kingdom
Johnson & Johnson Medical Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico
Johnson & Johnson Medical NV Belgium
Johnson & Johnson Medical Products GmbH Austria
Johnson & Johnson Medical Pty Ltd Australia
Johnson & Johnson Medical S.A. Argentina
Johnson & Johnson Medical S.p.A. Italy
Johnson & Johnson Medical, S.C.S. Venezuela
Johnson & Johnson Middle East FZ-LLC United Arab Emirates
Johnson & Johnson Pacific Pty. Limited Australia
Johnson & Johnson Poland Sp. z o.o. Poland
Johnson & Johnson Pte. Ltd. Singapore
Johnson & Johnson Pty. Limited Australia
Johnson & Johnson S.p.A. Italy
Johnson & Johnson SDN. BHD. Malaysia
Johnson & Johnson Sihhi Malzeme Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi Turkey
Johnson & Johnson Swiss Finance Company Limited United Kingdom
Johnson & Johnson Taiwan Ltd. Taiwan
Johnson & Johnson Vision Care (Ireland) Ireland
Johnson & Johnson, prodaja medicinskih in farmacevtskih izdelkov, d.o.o. Slovenia
Johnson & Johnson, S.A. Spain
Johnson & Johnson, S.A. de C.V. Mexico
Johnson & Johnson, s.r.o. Czech Republic
Latam International Investment Company Ireland
Latam Properties Holdings Ireland
LifeScan Scotland Limited United Kingdom
McNeil AB Sweden
McNeil GmbH & Co. oHG Germany
McNeil Healthcare (UK) Limited United Kingdom
McNeil Manufacturing Pty Ltd Australia
McNeil Products Limited United Kingdom
McNeil Sweden AB SwedenJurisdiction of
Name of Subsidiary Organization
Medos International Sarl Switzerland
Medos Sarl Switzerland
Mentor Medical Systems B.V. Netherlands
Mentor Medical Systems C.V. Netherlands
OBTECH Medical Sarl Switzerland
OMJ Ireland Ireland
OMJ PR Holdings Ireland
Omrix Biopharmaceuticals Ltd. Israel
Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics France
Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics United Kingdom
Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics GmbH Germany
Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics K.K. Japan
Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics NV Belgium
P.T. Johnson & Johnson Indonesia Indonesia
Shanghai Elsker Mother & Baby Co., Ltd China
Shanghai Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceuticals, Ltd. China
Synthes (Canada) Ltd. Canada
Synthes (Shanghai) Medical Trading Co., Ltd. China
Synthes (Suzhou) Medical Co., Ltd. China
Synthes Australia Pty Ltd Australia
Synthes Colombia S.A.S. Colombia
Synthes Finanz GmbH Switzerland
SYNTHES GmbH Germany
Synthes GmbH Switzerland
Synthes Holding AG Switzerland
Synthes Industria e Comercio Ltda. Brazil
Synthes Limited United Kingdom
Synthes Lux Finance S.àr.l. Luxembourg
Synthes Lux Holding S.àr.l. Luxembourg
Synthes Luxembourg, S.àr.l. Luxembourg
Synthes Medical Private Limited India
Synthes Produktions GmbH Switzerland
Synthes Tuttlingen GmbH Germany
Synthes-Stratec S.A. Spain
Tasmanian Alkaloids Pty. Ltd. Australia
Tibotec-Virco Comm. VA Belgium
Turnbuckle Investment Company Ireland
Vania Expansion France
Xian-Janssen Pharmaceutical Ltd. ChinaEXHIBIT 23
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-188368, 333-181092, 333-163857, 333-129542, 333-124785,
333-106007, 333-104828, 333-39238 and 333-26979) and Form S-3 (Nos. 333-172513, 333-67020, and 333-91349) of Johnson & Johnson of our report dated February
21, 2014 relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in the Annual Report to Shareholders, which
is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated February 21, 2014 relating to the financial
statement schedule, which appears in this Form 10-K.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
________________________________________________________
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
New York, New York
February 21, 2014Exhibit 31(a)
CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT
I, Alex Gorsky, certify that:
1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2013 (the “report”) of Johnson & Johnson (the “Company”);
2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
4. The Company’s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Company and have:
(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the Company, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
period in which this report is being prepared;
(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;
(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Company’s most recent fiscal
quarter (the Company’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting; and
5. The Company’s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Company’s
auditors and the audit committee of the Company’s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):
(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the Company’s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting.
/s/ Alex Gorsky
Alex Gorsky
Chief Executive Officer
Date: February 21, 2014Exhibit 31(b)
CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT
I, Dominic J. Caruso, certify that:
1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2013 (the “report”) of Johnson & Johnson (the “Company”);
2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
4. The Company’s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Company and have:
(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the Company, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
period in which this report is being prepared;
(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;
(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Company’s most recent fiscal
quarter (the Company’s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting; and
5. The Company’s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Company’s
auditors and the audit committee of the Company’s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):
(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the Company’s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting.
/s/ Dominic J. Caruso
Dominic J. Caruso
Chief Financial Officer
Date: February 21, 2014Exhibit 32(a)
CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT
The undersigned, Alex Gorsky, the Chief Executive Officer of Johnson & Johnson, a New Jersey corporation (the “Company”), pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, hereby certifies that, to the best of my knowledge:
(1) the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2013 (the “Report”) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
(2) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
/s/ Alex Gorsky
Alex Gorsky
Chief Executive Officer
Dated: February 21, 2014
This certification is being furnished to the SEC with this Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not, except to the
extent required by such Act, be deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to
the liability of that section.Exhibit 32(b)
CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT
The undersigned, Dominic J. Caruso, the Chief Financial Officer of Johnson & Johnson, a New Jersey corporation (the “Company”), pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, hereby certifies that, to the best of my knowledge:
(1) the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2013 (the “Report") fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
(2) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
/s/ Dominic J. Caruso
Dominic J. Caruso
Chief Financial Officer
Dated: February 21, 2014
This certification is being furnished to the SEC with this Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not, except to the
extent required by such Act, be deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to
the liability of that section.EXHIBIT 99
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORMACT OF 1995 — “SAFE HARBOR” FOR FORWARD-
LOOKING STATEMENTS
The Company may from time to time make certain forward-looking statements in publicly-released materials, both written and oral. Forward-looking statements do not
relate strictly to historical or current facts and reflect management’s assumptions, views, plans, objectives and projections about the future. Forward-looking statements
may be identified by the use of words such as “plans,” “expects,” “will,” “anticipates,” “estimates” and other words of similar meaning in conjunction with, among other
things, discussions of future operations, financial performance, the Company’s strategy for growth, product development, regulatory approvals, market position and
expenditures.
Forward-looking statements are based on current beliefs, expectations and assumptions regarding future events. These statements therefore are subject to
uncertainties, risks and changes that are difficult to predict and many of which are outside of the Company's control. Investors should realize that if underlying
assumptions prove inaccurate or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the Company’s expectations and projections.
Investors are therefore cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Furthermore, the Company does not undertake to update any forward-
looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Some important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the Company’s forward-looking
statements are as follows:
• Economic factors, including inflation and fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates and the potential effect of such fluctuations on revenues,
expenses and resulting margins;
• Competitive factors, including technological advances achieved and patents attained by competitors as well as new products introduced by competitors;
• Challenges to the Company’s patents by competitors or allegations that the Company’s products infringe the patents of third parties, which could potentially
affect the Company’s competitive position and ability to sell the products in question and require the payment of past damages and future royalties. In particular,
generic drug firms have filed Abbreviated New Drug Applications with the FDA seeking to market generic forms of most of the Company’s key pharmaceutical
products, prior to expiration of the applicable patents covering those products. In the event that the Company is not successful in defending the resulting lawsuits,
generic versions of the product at issue will be introduced, resulting in very substantial market share and revenue losses;
• The impact of patent expirations on the Company's business and operating results. As patents expire, competitors may be able to legally produce and market
similar products or technologies, including biosimilars, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company's sales and results of operations;
• Financial distress and bankruptcies experienced by significant customers and suppliers that could impair their ability, as the case may be, to purchase the
Company’s products, pay for products previously purchased or meet their obligations to the Company under supply arrangements;
• Changes in the behavior and spending patterns of purchasers of health care products and services, including delaying medical procedures, rationing prescription
medications, reducing the frequency of physician visits and foregoing health care insurance coverage, as a result of a prolonged global economic downturn;
• The impact on international operations from financial instability in international economies, sovereign risk, possible imposition of governmental controls and
unstable international governments and legal systems;
• Interruptions and breaches of computer and communications systems, including computer viruses, “hacking” and “cyber-attacks,” that could impair the
Company's ability to conduct business and communicate internally and with its customers, or result in the theft of trade secrets or other misappropriation of assets,
or otherwise compromise privacy of sensitive information belonging to the Company, its customers or other business partners;
• Health care changes in the U.S. and other countries resulting in pricing pressures, including the continued consolidation among health care providers, trends
toward managed care and health care cost containment, the shift towards governments becoming the primary payers of health care expenses and government laws
and regulations relating to sales and promotion, reimbursement and pricing generally;• Government laws and regulations, affecting U.S. and international operations, including those relating to securities laws compliance, trade, monetary and fiscal
policies, taxes, price controls, regulatory approval of new products, licensing and patent rights, environmental protection, conflict minerals and possible drug
reimportation legislation;
• Competition in research, involving the development and the improvement of new and existing products and processes, is particularly significant and results
from time to time in product and process obsolescence. The development of new and improved products is important to the Company’s success in all areas of its
business;
• Challenges and difficulties inherent in product development, including the potential inability to successfully continue technological innovation, complete
clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals in the United States and internationally, gain and maintain market approval of products and the possibility of encountering
infringement claims by competitors with respect to patent or other intellectual property rights which can preclude or delay commercialization of a product;
• Significant litigation or government action adverse to the Company including product liability claims, patent infringement claims and antitrust claims;
• Increased scrutiny of the health care industry by government agencies and state attorneys general resulting in investigations and prosecutions carry the risk of
significant civil and criminal penalties, including, but not limited to, debarment from government business;
• Difficulties and delays in manufacturing, internally or within the supply chain, that cause voluntary or involuntary business interruptions or shutdowns, product
shortages, substantial modifications to our business practices and operations, withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market, or possible civil
penalties and criminal prosecution;
• Product liability insurance for products may be limited, cost prohibitive or unavailable;
• Product efficacy or safety concerns, whether or not based on scientific evidence, resulting in product withdrawals, recalls, regulatory action on the part of the
FDA (or international counterparts) or declining sales;
• The impact of business combinations, including acquisitions and divestitures, both by and for the Company, as well as externally in the pharmaceutical,
medical devices and diagnostics and consumer industries;
• Changes to global climate, extreme weather and natural disasters that could affect demand for the Company's products and services, cause disruptions in
manufacturing and distribution networks, alter the availability of goods and services within the supply chain, and affect the overall design and integrity of the
Company's products and operations;
• Reliance on global supply chains and production and distribution processes that are complex, subject to increasing regulatory requirements that may adversely
affect sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products, and which may involve multiple third parties, require significant capital expenditures, and be
subject to lengthy regulatory approvals;
• The possibility that the Internal Revenue Service could assert one or more contrary positions to challenge the transactions consummated in connection with the
acquisition of Synthes, Inc. from a tax perspective. If challenged, an amount up to the total purchase price for the Synthes shares could be treated as subject to
applicable U.S. tax at approximately the statutory rate to the Company, plus interest;
• The impact on political and economic conditions due to terrorist attacks in the U.S. and other parts of the world or U.S. military action overseas, as well as
instability in the financial markets which could result from such terrorism or military actions; and
• Issuance of new or revised accounting standards by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The foregoing list sets forth many, but not all, of the factors that could impact upon the Company’s ability to achieve results described in any forward-looking
statements. Investors should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all
potential risks and uncertainties. The Company has identified the factors on this list as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.