ANNUAL REPOR t 2008C A R I N G
Comforts Fulfills
•
Heals Touches Empowers
• •
Transforms Inspires
•
Endures
ON THE COVER Around the world, we’re focused on making life-changing, long-term differences in the prevention and treatment of
HIV/AIDS. Our HIV franchise continues to grow as we discover, develop and provide access to medicines like PREZISTA® (darunavir)
and INTELENCE™ (etravirine). And our involvement in community-based programs, such as mothers2mothers in South Africa,
continues to touch lives. Read about HIV-positive mentor mother Kangela and her son—who is HIV-negative—in the story on page 18.CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
To Our
Shareholders
The men and women of Johnson & Johnson
come to work each day driven by a shared
passion: caring. Our caring touches the lives
of people around the world. It motivates
us to identify unmet health care needs,
reach increasing numbers of patients and
consumers, and create broader solutions—
not only for the most serious medical
conditions but also for the general health
WILLIAM C. WELDON
and well-being of the world’s population. Chairman, Board of Directors, and Chief Executive Officer
Our caring empowers others. It touches patients and patent expirations—even as we faced an unanticipated deteriora-
consumers across the world, and it inspires hope. It’s grounded tion of the global economy.
in the fundamental tenets of Our Credo and in a decentralized Worldwide sales grew to $63.7 billion, an increase of 4.3 percent.
management approach that keeps our people close to their Operational growth was 1.9 percent. We achieved strong adjusted
customers and their markets. It drove our business success in earnings growth of 6.8(1) percent and adjusted earnings per share
2008, and it mobilizes us to capitalize on new health care opportu- growth of 9.6(1) percent, which was higher than adjusted earnings
net sales $63.7
nities while we meet the challenges ahead in an unprecedented, growth due to our share-repurchase program. Free cash flow was
difficult gdloiblualt eecdon eomarinc sinetgtisn gp.er share $4.57 strong at approximately $12 billion.(2)
dividends paid per share $1.795 While growing our businesses, we also took thoughtful,
2008 HIGHLIGHTS We remember 2008 as a year of extraordinary disciplined actions to streamline and improve our cost structure.
economic events that shook our financial markets and global econ- Within our Pharmaceuticals and Cordis businesses, approximately
omies. Against this backdrop, I am proud of our accomplishments. $1.6 billion in annual savings were realized. We anticipate
Johnson & Johnson delivered on its financial commitments, additional savings in 2009 from standardization initiatives we
driven by the strength of a broad base of human health care busi- have invested in over time.
nesses. We achieved these results despite anticipated market Meanwhile, we remain on track to fulfill the potential of the
challenges—such as increased generic competition worldwide and Pfizer Consumer Healthcare acquisition, expecting to meet or
NET SALES DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE DIVIDENDS PAID PER SHARE
(in billions of dollars) (in dollars) $4.57 (in dollars) $1.795
$61.1 $63.7 $1.620
$47.3 $50.5 $53.3 $3.35 $3.73 $3.63 $1.275 $1.455
$2.74 $1.095
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER 1exceed our target of $500 million to During the turbulent HIV combination therapy. STELARA™
$600 million in cost synergies. We expect (ustekinumab) was approved in Canada and
economic times of 2008,
this transaction to be break-even or the EU for the treatment of moderate to
modestly accretive this year, one year Johnson & Johnson severe plaque psoriasis; ustekinumab is
ahead of the original schedule. was the third-best- currently under review with the FDA.
These types of actions drove gains in Our Medical Devices and Diagnostics
performing stock on
our adjusted segment operating profit to pipeline is strong, both with new products
$17.3(3) billion, or 27.1(3) percent to sales, in the Dow Jones Industrial and entries into new markets. For example,
2008 compared with $15.9(3) billion, or Average. Our share- Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. introduced the
26.0(3) percent to sales, in 2007. Our teams HARMONIC® Combination Hook Blade and
holder returns over
did an excellent job improving margins even HARMONIC® SYNERGY™ Curved Blade,
as the volatile economic climate began one-, three-, five- and taking these minimally invasive surgical
driving increases in commodity costs and ten-year periods have instruments with proven clinical value and
shifts in consumer and patient behaviors. strong intellectual property into orthopae-
exceeded our major
We also continued with our $10 billion dic and plastic surgery, new specialties for
share-repurchase program, and as of comparative indices. the Company.
year-end, we had purchased approximately And our Vision Care Franchise continued
$8.1 billion of stock. its fifth year of solid growth with ACUVUE®,
During the turbulent economic times the world’s most widely prescribed contact
of 2008, Johnson & Johnson was the third- lens brand. It launched two new products:
best-performing stock on the Dow Jones ACUVUE® OASYS™ Brand Contact Lenses
Industrial Average. Our shareholder returns over one-, three-, for ASTIGMATISM and, introduced in the United Kingdom, 1-DAY
five- and ten-year periods have exceeded our major comparative ACUVUE® TruEye™, the world’s first daily disposable silicone
indices. While delivering financial results and cost structure hydrogel contact lens.
improvements, we have been investing in our businesses for sus- While developing our core businesses, we also expanded into
tained growth. We made significant strides toward strengthening new markets through acquisitions. Johnson & Johnson acquired
our market positions in the areas in which we compete today, Mentor Corporation, a leading supplier of medical products for the
identifying new high-growth opportunities and broadening our global aesthetic market. This acquisition provides our Ethicon
capabilities into more of the $4.1 trillion health care market. Franchise with an opportunity to grow in aesthetic and reconstruc-
We continue to deliver on four major business priorities that tive medicine while raising the standard for innovation and patient
remain fundamental to our long-term growth: outcomes. We believe Mentor will become the cornerstone of a
• Winning in Health Care broader Johnson & Johnson leadership strategy for aesthetic
• Capitalizing on Convergence medicine—a high-growth market serving both consumers and
• Accelerating Growth in Emerging Markets medical professionals.
• Developing Leadership and Talent Winning in health care also means going beyond the $1.2 trillion
market in which our businesses compete today and finding growth
WINNING IN HEALTH C ArE Winning in health care requires a multi- opportunities in the broader $4.1 trillion health care market. Our
pronged approach for long-term success. Accordingly, we continue Office of Strategy & Growth is charged with this mission.
to invest in internal development and to pursue selective licenses As an initial step in the creation of a Wellness & Prevention
and acquisitions. Meanwhile, we are thoughtfully navigating the business platform, Johnson & Johnson made two acquisitions
competitive and industry challenges affecting global health care. and began laying the groundwork for this new business.
Research and development remained strong at $7.6 billion in HealthMedia, Inc. offers a suite of interventions that provide
2008. Driven by strong science and unmet patient needs, we have personalized web-based coaching for wellness, disease manage-
advanced our pipelines. ment, behavioral health and medication adherence with proven
Last year was one of the most productive for our pharmaceuti- outcomes, improved compliance, reduced medical utilization and
cal pipeline in terms of filings, approvals and positive regulatory increased productivity. Meanwhile, HUMAN PERFORMANCE
opinions. Our pipeline is diverse and well-balanced, in both bio- INSTITUTE™ is developing science-based training programs to
pharmaceuticals and small molecules, covering therapeutic areas improve employee health and wellness. We expect this new business
with high unmet needs. We sustained research productivity, and to contribute to the performance of workforces through products
we are on track to complete filings for seven to 10 new products and services that keep employees healthy, engaged and productive.
between the beginning of 2008 and the end of 2010. In doing so, While building our businesses, we are also actively participating
we’ll meet our target set back in 2007. in public policy discussions around the world. Given our breadth
Our late-stage pipeline is robust. Eight new compounds of businesses and long-standing reputation, we are often called
are currently in registration, five of which were filed with the upon for our perspectives. As always, our focus remains on the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2008. NUCYNTA™ consumer and patient, preserving access to care and incentives
(tapentadol) immediate-release tablets for the relief of moderate for innovation.
to severe acute pain in adults age 18 and older were granted FDA Johnson & Johnson is uniquely positioned to thrive in the
approval. Regulatory authorities in Canada, the European Union rapidly changing health care landscape. Our blend of industry
(EU) and the U.S. approved INTELENCE™ (etravirine) for perspectives, consumer insights, scientific innovation and finan-
2 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTcial strength provides us with a uniquely research and providers with local market insights, prod-
strong base for present and future growth. ucts and strategies.
development
Three components are core to our
CApITALIzING ON C ONvErGENCE For the remained strong emerging-markets strategy. First, we are
future, breakthrough innovation lies in at $7.6 billion training health care professionals to
capitalizing on the convergence of products, provide optimal patient care. We opened a
in 2008. Driven by
technologies, patient-centric solutions and professional education center in Beijing in
the power of the Johnson & Johnson strong science and conjunction with our 2008 Olympic Games
enterprise. Our broad base of businesses unmet patient needs, sponsorship. We also established a
working together creates this distinctive professional education center in Russia.
we have advanced
competitive advantage. And our diverse Meanwhile, the Vision Care Institute, LLC
capabilities, expertise, talent and financial our pipelines. is providing important training and infor-
strength enable us to develop innovative mation on eye care in 11 diverse cities,
solutions that advance health care around including Shanghai, Dubai and Bangkok,
the world and build long-term success for and plans to continue its global expansion.
Johnson & Johnson. We launched the Johnson & Johnson
Good collaborative thinking leads to Diabetes Institute, LLC in four global
important new products. The Fibrin Pad, markets. In all, we have more than
developed jointly by our scientists at Ethicon, 20 professional education centers across
Inc. and Centocor, Inc., along with Omrix the world.
Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., combines mechani- Second, we continue to build local
cal and biological action for advanced hemostasis, reducing surgery capabilities to fully integrate with the market and its people. As the
time and the need for blood transfusions. Johnson & Johnson official health care sponsor of the Beijing 2008 Olympic and
acquired Omrix Biopharmaceuticals in late 2008 to further our Paralympic Games, our Company and businesses built a lasting
capabilities in this area. bond with the Chinese people, opening opportunities for sustained
The companies that comprise our Diabetes Care Franchise are business growth and recruitment of the best talent. Local capabili-
creating a full range of solutions that empower patients through ties were further enhanced with the acquisition of Beijing Dabao
technology, education and services. New product introductions Cosmetics Co., Ltd., maker of a well-known and respected skin care
allow patients to consistently monitor blood glucose levels and brand in China; this is our first significant acquisition in this mar-
discreetly administer insulin. We also acquired two online ket. Additionally, we began manufacturing at our new orthopaedic
communities—Children with Diabetes, Inc. and the Spanish- facility in Suzhou, China, and our Emerging Market Innovation
language Diabetes Juvenil—to help connect families virtually. Center in Shanghai develops products for emerging markets and
Also, the Johnson & Johnson Diabetes Institute, LLC brings together gathers in-depth insights about the Chinese consumer.
diverse medical professionals with the common goal of improving Finally, we are developing a number of market-appropriate
outcomes for people with diabetes. products, such as endosurgical instruments, sutures and baby
Capitalizing on the power and scope of the Johnson & Johnson care products, to better meet local needs.
enterprise is also a source of competitive advantage for our busi-
nesses. The launch of ZYRTEC® (cetirizine HCl) for sale without a DEvELOpING LEADErSHIp AND T ALENT While we are well-
prescription in the United States was our most successful product positioned with long-term growth strategies, I remain most
launch in 2008. It also marked the largest prescription to over- passionate about the people of Johnson & Johnson. Inspired by
the-counter (OTC) switch in Company history. The ZYRTEC® Our Credo, our teams overcome daily competitive challenges in
launch demonstrated the unique advantage we have when our their quests to discover new ways to improve health care, satisfy
Consumer and Pharmaceuticals businesses work together to unmet needs and open new markets.
combine strong consumer marketing expertise with our in-depth The professional development of our people remains a top
knowledge of the managed-care market. priority. With more than 250 operating companies around the
Our scientists and marketers continue to develop convergent world, we have the capability to develop leaders by exposing them
and personalized health care solutions in other high-growth areas, to a wide variety of businesses, with ever-increasing responsibility.
such as skin care, obesity, oncology and cardiology. The potential We allow them to take prudent risks as they enhance their own
for making an impact on standards of care in these categories is judgment and business-building capabilities. Our focus on leader-
tremendous, and we believe the breadth of Johnson & Johnson ship development ensures smooth succession through our most
makes us uniquely able to seize the opportunities that lie ahead. senior management levels.
In addition to making excellent progress on our business
ACCELErATING GrOWTH IN EMEr GING MArkETS One of the priorities throughout 2008, we achieved sustained results in each
largest growth opportunities rests in emerging global markets such of our business segments, driven by our solid management teams
as Brazil, Russia, China and India. Other rapidly developing coun- and dedicated employees.
tries, such as Turkey and Mexico, are also showing solid growth.
Johnson & Johnson has maintained a significant and well-established CONSuMEr HEALTH C ArE Our Consumer Health Care business
presence in these markets for decades, utilizing our decentralized delivered strong growth in 2008, with sales of $16 billion and a
operating model to stay close to patients, consumers and health care total growth rate of 10.8 percent. Growth drivers included our
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER 33OTC/Nutritionals business, led by ZYRTEC®; Johnson & Johnson devices, which offer surgeons greater func-
skin care brands, led by AVEENO®, CLEAN & tionality and flexibility for diverse surgical
is uniquely positioned to
CLEAR® and NEUTROGENA®; LISTERINE® procedure requirements. Through the
thrive in the rapidly
antiseptic mouth rinse; and international acquisition of Åmic AB, a privately held
sales of baby care products. DABAO™, the changing health care Swedish developer of in vitro diagnostics,
leading moisturizer in China, also contrib- Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc. has access
landscape. Our blend of
uted to this growth. to new delivery channels in point-of-care
industry perspectives,
Our Consumer business continues a and near-patient settings outside the
history of strong revenue and operating consumer insights, clinical laboratory.
profit growth. We maintain solid leadership Our businesses introduced several new
scientific innovation
posi tions, with the No. 1 or No. 2 positions products and strengthened pipelines to
and financial strength
in nine of the 15 major categories in which sustain future growth. DePuy Orthopaedics,
we compete. provides us with a Inc. introduced TRI-LOCK™, a bone-
Our focus on superior science differen- preserving hip stem with proprietary
uniquely strong base
tiates us from competitors and builds GRIPTION™ technology for stability,
for present and future
long-term advantage. Science and deep maintaining its leading position in
consumer insights are the catalysts behind growth. hip replacement in the U.S. market. In
our growth strategies, which include organic Europe, LifeScan, Inc. launched the new
growth of iconic brands, a focus on new ONETOUCH® VITA™ Blood Glucose Meter,
ventures and a commitment to emerging- particularly beneficial for people with type 2
market development. diabetes who find their disease complex and
Across all franchises, clinical trial design and analysis are difficult to manage. With the convergence of accurate, reliable
critical competencies, both for new products and innovative new and easy-to-use technology and patient insights about preferred
claims. Our strong network of professional relationships, sizes, shapes and colors, the ONETOUCH® ULTRAMINI™ Blood
supported by science, has built many of our brands to the No. 1 Glucose Meter has become the No. 1-selling blood glucose meter in
place in professional recommendations in the United States the United States.
and international markets. TYLENOL®, JOHNSON’S® Baby, Given the competitive strengths of our MD&D businesses and
NEUTROGENA®, LISTERINE® and NEOSPORIN® are just some opportunities for growth, we remain enthusiastic about the
of our brands that are trusted—and highly recommended—by potential for sustained long-term growth in this segment.
medical professionals around the world.
pHArMACEuTICALS Our Pharmaceuticals businesses ended the
MEDICAL DEvICES AND DIAGNOSTICS Our Medical Devices year with sales of $24.6 billion, representing a total decrease of
and Diagnostics (MD&D) franchises continue to comprise the 1.2 percent versus the prior year. The breadth and depth of our
world’s largest medical technology business, with 2008 sales of growing product portfolio enabled us to lessen the impact of
$23.1 billion, a total increase of 6.4 percent over the prior year. generic competition for RISPERDAL® (risperidone) and slower
Growth was driven by minimally invasive products, disposable sales of PROCRIT® (Epoetin alfa).
contact lenses, and orthopaedic and sports medicine products. Nine products had sales of more than $1 billion. Growth was
The medical technology market offers significant growth driven by the strength of currently marketed products, fueled
opportunities in light of aging demographics, unmet medical in some cases by new indications and in others by approvals in
needs and technological innovation. In addition, we see low additional markets.
penetration rates in many of our key categories, along with Growth products included VELCADE™ (bortezomib),
geographic development opportunities. We are well-positioned which received European Commission approval for previously
to capitalize on this market potential, with No. 1 or No. 2 positions untreated multiple myeloma; REMICADE® (infliximab), a
in the majority of markets in which we compete. biologic approved for the treatment of a number of immune-
Our opportunities are particularly solid in markets such as mediated inflammatory diseases; and TOPAMAX® (topiramate)
ophthalmology, cardiology and metabolic disease, where there is a for treatment of epilepsy and migraines. In our HIV Franchise,
strong need for patient-centric solutions to address chronic disease. the European Commission approved once-daily dosing of
Within this area, the Comprehensive Care Group is charged with 800 mg PREZISTA® (darunavir) with low-dose ritonavir as part
developing novel approaches to care across the entire continuum of of combination therapy in treatment-naïve adults (those who
a disease while delivering cost-effective outcomes. Meanwhile, the have never taken HIV medication). This approval broadens the
Surgical Care Group focuses on developing surgical businesses with previous indication of darunavir for treatment-experienced
new technologies and solutions that support patients beyond the HIV-1 patients. This means PREZISTA® will be used for the
time of surgical intervention. full spectrum of HIV/AIDS patients in the 27 EU member states.
Our MD&D businesses achieved several significant milestones Our antipsychotic franchise with INVEGA® (paliperidone), a
during 2008. In addition to Mentor Corporation and Omrix once-daily atypical antipsychotic, and RISPERDAL® CONSTA®
Biopharmaceuticals, the strategic acquisitions of several other (risperidone) Long-Acting Injection continued to grow. We have
companies strengthened our pipelines. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. filed an additional indication for RISPERDAL® CONSTA® in
acquired SurgRx, Inc., bringing together that company’s ENSEAL® frequently relapsing bipolar disorder in the U.S. Other new indica-
products with its own HARMONIC® line of ultrasonic medical tions for our existing products included CONCERTA® (methyl-
4 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTphenidate HCl) Extended-release Tablets in Around the world, tant, I am confident because of our people.
adult attention deficit hyper-activity disorder Around the world, our people bring a
our people bring
(ADHD) and DORIBAX™ (doripenem for passion for caring to work every day.
a passion for caring
injection) in the EU for urinary tract This is perhaps the greatest reason for our
infections, intra-abdominal infections and to work every day. enduring success. Each day, our people
nosocomial pneumonia infection. remind me that caring is an extraordinary
This is perhaps
Our late-stage pipeline is also promising, motivator that overcomes the many chal-
the greatest reason
and we are poised for several potential lenges of today’s health care environment
launches. Rivaroxaban, which we are for our enduring and difficult economic times.
co-developing with Bayer HealthCare AG in As you browse the stories on the fol-
success.
the United States, is initially in development lowing pages, you will see some of what
for prevention of deep vein thrombosis and inspires the people of Johnson & Johnson.
pulmonary embolism in patients undergoing Added to these stories are countless other
hip and knee replacement surgery. We are works throughout the Company. From
also encouraged by paliperidone palmitate, a great science … to deep insights about our
long-acting injectable antipsychotic with patients and consumers … to innovative
monthly dosing. market approaches … to a dedication to
In addition to concentrating on R&D corporate citizenship … our people bring a
productivity, we are carefully navigating the new definition to caring. They are inspired
challenging regulatory and reimbursement by Our Credo, which reminds us of who we
environments and the growing competition are as a Company and what we believe.
from generics. With this combined focus, we remain confident in Our operating model—broadly based in human health care,
our pharmaceutical pipeline as we introduce new and better solu- decentralized in approach, managed for the long term and
tions for unmet medical needs. focused on people and values—impels us to find the best possible
solutions to today’s most pressing health care needs. This focus
Our COMMITMENT TO GrOWTH Unprecedented technologies, has been passed from generation to generation of employees at
aging populations, strong emerging markets and more powerful Johnson & Johnson—all of whom share the inspiration of caring
consumers are creating a number of new opportunities for our that remains our hallmark.
businesses. We maintain a clear strategy for pursuing future
growth. This is evident in the progress we made during 2008. Our COMMITMENT TO YOu During 2008, we achieved solid
For 2009, we have entered an unusually challenging period, progress against our growth strategies. We strengthened our core
facing a global financial and business slowdown unlike anything franchises, advanced our pipelines and introduced new products
we have seen during our lifetimes. to sustain revenue growth. We invested in new opportunities to
Every challenging period brings with it a corresponding fuel robust future growth. We maintained a strong balance sheet
opportunity for growth, and this is no exception. By working in a that allows us to capitalize on emerging opportunities for the
disciplined way, Johnson & Johnson will emerge stronger than future. We continued to operate under a business model that
ever. I believe this for several reasons: delivers sustained results and to be led by inspired people who
We are fortunate to have an experienced management team in take ingenuity and caring to new levels. For all these reasons,
place with the right skills to capitalize on market conditions and I remain confident that Johnson & Johnson will continue to grow
build businesses for long-term growth. stronger in the years ahead, delivering superior levels of
We are strengthening our core franchises, advancing our pipe- performance that benefit patients, consumers, medical profes-
lines and introducing new products that will replenish and grow sionals, employees, our communities and our loyal shareholders.
our revenue streams.
We are building our market leadership positions and venturing
into new growth spaces for Johnson & Johnson.
We are maintaining our financial strength and flexibility with a
William C. Weldon
combination of strong cash flows and AAA credit rating, which
Chairman, Board of Directors, and Chief Executive Officer
gives us access to credit at favorable rates.
We have implemented cost structure improvements that
March 11, 2009
should reap benefits for the bottom line and help us operate more
efficiently.
We are actively participating in the dialogues on public policy
that will shape our business environment for years to come.
(1) Excludes in-process research and development and other special items.
Whenever the economy and health care markets return to more
See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, page 72.
robust growth, we will be stronger and better-positioned for lead-
(2) Free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital spending.
ership in our markets.
(3) Adjusted segment operating profit, before (income)/expenses not allocated
to segments, which excludes in-process research and development and other
Our COMMITMENT TO CArING I am confident in the growth of special items. (See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and
Johnson & Johnson for many reasons, but perhaps most impor- Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, page 72.)
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER 5OUR CARING TRANSFORMS:
A Surgeon’s Care
M
any of the children that “The vision we have is to use HARMONIC® technology as the
W. Fred Hess, M.D., treats cornerstone of a growing energy franchise that will offer multiple
benefits to surgeons and patients in any procedure,” says
for scoliosis and other spinal
Hedy Hashemi, Ethicon Endo-Surgery marketing director with
deformities have an uneven responsibility for the HARMONIC® line.
In 1995, there was only one HARMONIC® surgical device
waist, asymmetrical shoulders or a large hump.
when Ethicon Endo-Surgery acquired the technology. Today
Some are in such great pain that they’re barely the HARMONIC® product line comprises more than 50 devices,
including seven products launched in a six-month period
able to walk. The intricate surgery that Dr. Hess
between November 2007 and April 2008. The energy franchise
performs can last up to 12 hours and often gained another platform in 2008 with the acquisition of
SurgRx, Inc., makers of ENSEAl® devices, which seal large vessels
requires transfusions due to major blood loss.
during surgery.
But when some patients go on to be football, tennis, swimming
or diving champions, “it makes your day, your week, your year,” a winning t ouchDown Dr. Hess, a longtime user of surgical
says Dr. Hess, Chief of Spine Section, Department of Orthopaedic products by DePuy Spine, Inc., operates with the latest HARMONIC®
Surgery at Geisinger Medical Center in Danville, Pa. devices. And his surgeries continue to touch lives.
In 2008 Dr. Hess began using two new surgical devices: the When off-duty, he performs surgery on children in Ecuador,
HARMONIC® Combination Hook and the HARMONIC SYNERGY™ Ghana, Barbados and several other countries. His wife, Heather,
Curved Blade. These latest innovations in HARMONIC® energy son Andy, 21, and daughter Ashley, 23—a college student,
from Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. take this proven technology volunteer firefighter and EMT—have joined Dr. Hess on trips to
into orthopaedic and plastic surgery, new specialties for distribute food and medicine. He also brings children to Geisinger
Ethicon Endo-Surgery. Another device launched in 2008, the Medical Center for treatment, including a Bosnian boy who was
ergonomically enhanced HARMONIC ACE® Curved Shear, has an injured in a landmine explosion and a Honduran girl who was
easy-to-use handle for laparoscopic procedures. becoming a paraplegic due to tuberculosis of the spine; after a
What’s unique about HARMONIC® technology is that it uses 10-hour surgery, she can now walk.
ultrasonic energy to simultaneously cut and coagulate tissue An avid football fan who plays on the hospital team, Dr. Hess
during surgery. The benefits over traditional scalpel and electro- also volunteers as physician for the Danville High School
surgery techniques include minimal thermal tissue damage for Ironmen football team. One day he spotted an offensive tackle
the patient and more precise cutting for the surgeon, as well as who looked familiar and realized he had operated on the teen
fewer instrument exchanges in some cases. “It seems to impact after the boy broke his back in a car accident. Now, he was an
the recovery process,” says Dr. Hess. “It makes a difference in the all-state champion. Though the player was on the opposing team,
care I can provide for my patients.” Dr. Hess’ heart swelled.
“It’s wonderful to make a difference in someone’s life,” he says.
EnErgy Platform DrivEs growth HARMONIC® devices
tools to transform W. Fred Hess, M.D., Chief of Spine
have been used worldwide in more than 6.5 million open and
Section, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery at Geisinger Medical
laparoscopic procedures, including general, gynecological, Center in Danville, Pa., began using two new surgical devices
bariatric and colorectal surgeries. Feedback from hundreds of in 2008 that are the latest innovations in HARMONIC® energy
surgeons who regularly perform these procedures continues to from Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. Says Dr. Hess: “It makes a
play an important part in developing the devices. difference in the care I can provide for my patients.”
6 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORT
Johnson & Johnson 2008 annual rEPort corPoratE lEvEl rEvisions 02/12/09/10:50 Pm surgical carE Johnson & Johnson 2008 annual rEPort corPoratE lEvEl rEvisions 02/12/09/10:50 Pm surgical carEJohnson & Johnson 2008 annual rEPort corPoratE lEvEl rEvisions 02/12/09/10:50 Pm surgical carEOUR CARING DELIVERS:
Personalized Skin Care
C
herie Price says she used to be self-conscious about her face
breaking out. “Being an actor, it’s very frustrating,” says the Los Angeles resident.
“You don’t want to worry about people judging you only by your face.”
Cherie had tried for years to find the right acne treatment. Available exclusively through www.skinid.com or a hotline
While drugstore shelves offered so many options, she never knew (866-742-0201), skin iD™ uses a proprietary, dermatologist-
which to choose, and those she tried just weren’t right for her. developed skin evaluation. The result is a personalized regimen
Then she found out about skin iD™ from Neutrogena Corporation, consisting of three products: a cleanser and two other products,
the first personalized acne solution that’s based on an individual’s such as a hydrator and an anti-acne treatment or a toner
skin and lifestyle. and a moisturizer.
At Neutrogena, one of the Johnson & Johnson Consumer “It takes you through the steps to define your acne problems,”
businesses, scientists sought a way to personalize skin care so says Cherie, describing the free skin iD™ evaluation on
that each person’s acne treatment would meet his or her www.skinid.com. “I liked it a lot. It was very personalized.”
particular needs. The skin iD™ regimens were tested in a randomized double-
“We realized that if we could create a way to hear from each blind, placebo-controlled study with industry-leading acne
person about his or her needs, lifestyle and preferences, we could treatments. Five hundred participants were treated for eight
deliver a more effective, personalized solution,” says Bobby Sheikh, weeks. “The results were spectacular,” says Sheikh. “We could
launch Product Director for skin iD™. “Because most stores see that we were improving people’s lives.”
generally aren’t equipped to help people through the personaliza- “I felt amazing and couldn’t stop looking in the mirror,” says
tion process, we developed products and a distribution model that Cherie of her results. “It was a life-changing experience, and
sells the skin iD™ product line directly to consumers.” I saw my face change for the better.”
TAKING SKIN CARE PERSONALLY Los Angeles actor Cherie Price says her face is her calling card, but her acne was
giving the wrong impression. Then she found out about skin iD™ from Neutrogena Corporation, the first personalized
acne solution that’s based on an individual’s skin and lifestyle. “It changed my complexion, my skin, my life,” she says.
OUR CARING EMBRACES: Many Johnson & Johnson consumer Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies.
brands are part of people’s daily health “Since the acquisition, we have access
A TRUSTED
and hygiene rituals around the world. to greater marketing resources, and we’ve
LE PETIT MARSEILLAIS™, a trusted family been able to accelerate plans to expand to
BRAND brand with a 100-year heritage, leads the additional markets,” says Eric Panijel,
French market for personal cleansing. It was General Manager, Laboratoires Vendôme.
part of a 2006 strategic acquisition of Groupe “We also benefit from research capabilities
Vendôme by Johnson & Johnson SA France that fuel innovative product development.”
In a French advertisement for the new and has enhanced the Johnson & Johnson An average of 30 new LE PETIT
LE PETIT MARSEILLAIS™ orange blossom adult and baby skin care businesses. MARSEILLAIS™ products are launched
shower gel, a father and son encounter a tree Each year, 40 percent of French house- each year. New in 2008, orange blossom
covered in orange blossoms in the South holds buy at least oneL E PETIT MARSEILLAIS™ shower gel quickly became one of
of France. The scent reminds the father of shower gel, soap, bath or hair care product. the top three shower gels in France.
when he met and fell in love with the boy’s The products promote well-being and While a lighthearted ad helps, so does
mother. His reminiscence is interrupted emphasize beneficial ingredients found in the brand’s heritage. Panijel says, “LE PETIT
when the boy remarks that the smell makes nature. LE PETIT MARSEILLAIS™ is enjoying MARSEILLAIS™ has a special place in the
him think of their shower at home. double-digit sales growth as part of the minds of French people.”
PERSONALIZED SKIN CARE 9OUR CARING FULFILLS:
New Needs for New Markets
I
n northern China, young children like Ma Wenjuan’s son,
Zhang Chenyuan, spend lots of time playing outside. “I can see
his chapped face and know that he’s uncomfortable,” says Ma.
Ma was one of the mothers followed by Lillian Xu, Consumer Innovation Center (EMIC), a 10,000-square-meter
Science Manager, Asia Pacific & Emerging Markets, Johnson & Johnson facility that opened in Shanghai in 2007.
Johnson & Johnson Group of Consumer Companies, and her “Emerging markets like Brazil, India, China and others represent
colleagues as part of a consumer closeness and bonding program. almost 80 percent of the world’s population, and their spending
This program is an integral part of product design and develop- power in categories we’re serving is growing significantly,” says
ment in emerging markets. “We found that most moms apply Gerson Pinto, Vice President of Research & Development,
cream on their baby’s face in the morning before they go out,” says Asia Pacific & Emerging Markets, Johnson & Johnson Group of
Xu. “But reapplication during the day or evening is regarded as Consumer Companies. “The mission of EMIC is to develop new
wasteful and unnecessary.” and affordable products addressing the specific consumer needs
These findings were considered in the development and of emerging markets.”
September 2008 launch of JOHNSON’S® Baby Long Protecting EMIC researchers and product developers continue to
Cream, clinically proven to replenish skin lipids lost in the chilly, observe and strive to meet needs in these growing markets. Having
dry wind of winter. The cream’s natural ingredients and the been part of a consumer closeness experience, Ma says, “I was
competitively priced 25-gram package meet needs in China’s excited to have Johnson & Johnson people get to know my needs
emerging market. It was developed at the Emerging Market and then be able to develop products directly for this problem.”
Enjoying thE outdoors Ma Wenjuan and her son, Zhang Chenyuan, were part of a consumer bonding program
in China that allowed researchers to see firsthand the need for a long-lasting cream to keep children’sc heeks from chapping.
JOHNSON’S® Baby Long Protecting Cream was launched in September 2008.
SHAPiNg Johnson & Johnson served as an official health “Talent shortage is a potential bottleneck for
care sponsor of the Beijing 2008 Olympic Games and accelerating our business growth in China,” explains
OUR FUTURE
Paralympic Games. “Our sponsorship helped to Wen Jian Xie, Managing Director, Johnson & Johnson
shape our growth in China by creating a deeper Medical (China), Ltd. “By building our reputation,
iN CHiNA
emotional connection between the Chinese people the sponsorship has led to much better talent
and Johnson & Johnson,” says Owen Rankin, Vice recruitment and retention.” Xie says people in China
President of Corporate Equity, Johnson & Johnson. have expanded their view of Johnson & Johnson,
“We fundamentally changed the Johnson & Johnson role “from providing the best and most effective medical
in China, and that will last for decades.” products to our customers in China to serving many more
The sponsorship involved four years of planning, patients and improving the quality of health care.”
preparation and execution in conjunction with the 2008 During the Olympic Games, Johnson & Johnson
Games and provided a successful boost to our businesses helped better the health and well-being of families and
around the world, especially in China. Since establishing communities through education and information, and
a joint venture in 1985, Johnson & Johnson has built on supported Olympic athletes and medical staff with
investments—including the recent acquisition of Beijing training, products and education (see page 28). The
Dabao Cosmetics Co., Ltd. (see page 21)—that have Johnson & Johnson Beijing Science Center, built in 2005
helped to preserve Chinese heritage and accelerated to train medical professionals from the region, helped 80
Larger-than-life marionettes standing up to 22 feet tall growth in this important emerging market. Chinese physicians and 2,000 medical personnel prepare
told the story of an ancient terracotta warrior, brought “The Beijing 2008 Olympic Games was an for the Games. It remains a functioning training facility,
to life by a young Chinese girl. The vibrant cultural unprecedented opportunity to enhance our reputation supporting the growing health care infrastructure in China.
performance, presented by Johnson & Johnson at in China as a caring, trusted health company, helping The Johnson & Johnson Olympic Games Pavilion,
Millennium Monument Park during the Beijing 2008 our businesses to grow faster while building deeper located on the Beijing Olympic Green, has been donated
Olympic Games, introduced the past to the present relationships with the government and people of China to the city of Beijing as an enduring reminder of the spirit
and visibly demonstrated our strong past and future and making Johnson & Johnson a more attractive place of caring and sharing that creates healthier societies
commitment to the people of China. to work,” says Rankin. “All of these goals were achieved.” around the world.
10 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORT11OUR CARING HEALS:
The Skin He’s In
F
or 26 years, Troy DePriest Centocor scientists discovered ustekinumab, a human
monoclonal antibody, more than 10 years ago. It targets the
endured the painful red lesions
proteins, or cytokines, that are thought to set off certain
that covered much of his body inflammatory disorders, including psoriasis.
“Ustekinumab binds to interleukin -12 and -23, and prevents
and that characterize plaque
their interaction with cell surface receptors— essentially,
psoriasis. Like so many others it neutralizes their bioactivity,” explains Jacqueline Benson, Ph.D.,
living with psoriasis, Troy Assistant Director, Immunology Research, Centocor, Inc.
“We hope that the benefit ustekinumab has demonstrated in
was embarrassed by the physical signs of
patients with psoriasis is just the beginning for the therapeutic
the disease. “When I’d go surfing, I’d go to use of ustekinumab in immune-mediated diseases.”
Two large clinical studies have evaluated the efficacy and
the far end of the beach—I wanted to isolate
safety of ustekinumab as an infrequent subcutaneous injection,
myself, because people stared at me and with patients receiving as few as four injections a year following
two initial doses at weeks 0 and 4. More than two-thirds of clinical
made me feel like a leper,” he says.
trial patients receiving ustekinumab had a significant response
The itchy scales first appeared when Troy was 9. “I would after 12 weeks of therapy. Both studies continue, with long-term
scratch and dig at my scalp until it would bleed,” he recalls. extensions that will provide a total of five years of efficacy and
Over time, the raised red spots took over portions of his back, safety data for ustekinumab.
legs, arms and abdomen. By age 18, Troy was diagnosed with STELARA™ (ustekinumab) has been approved by regulatory
chronic severe plaque psoriasis, an inflammatory disorder that is authorities in Canada and the 27 European Union countries for
painful both physically and emotionally. “Plaque psoriasis is treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. STELARA™ is
not contagious, but it makes you so self-conscious that you want currently under review by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration,
to hide,” says Troy. “It strips away your confidence.” and marketing applications for the treatment of moderate to
To find relief, Troy says he tried multiple therapies. He even severe plaque psoriasis have been filed with local health authori-
moved from his home in Massachusetts to the California desert, ties in numerous other regions around the world.
hoping the sun would help his skin. “Nothing worked,” he says. Today, Troy is active in raising awareness through the
“Every day I would get up and look in the mirror and have to see National Psoriasis Foundation. “When my psoriasis improved,
this disease getting worse and worse. At one point, I just gave up.” I wanted to get out there and help others,” he says. “You’ll
But in 2004, Troy learned about a clinical trial for an inves- find me at a Foundation walk or speaking about the burden of
tigational therapy from Centocor, Inc. called ustekinumab and psoriasis—or you may find me on the beach. Before, everything
decided to enroll in the study. Ustekinumab is a new biologic was focused on my psoriasis, but now I feel more comfortable
medicine for which Johnson & Johnson has worldwide marketing living my life.”
rights under the trade name STELARA™. With his participation in
Self-Confident AgAin “Plaque psoriasis is not contagious,
the trial, “Troy went from having a significant percentage of his but it makes you so self-conscious that you want to hide,” says
body involved with psoriasis to having significant improvement Troy DePriest. But since he’s found relief with an investigational
in his disease,” says dermatologist Stacy Smith, President of treatment from Centocor, Inc., Troy is no longer hiding at
Therapeutics Clinical Research in San Diego. the far end of the beach.
12 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTJoHnSon & JoHnS on 2008 AnnUAl RePoR t CoRPoRAte level ReviSionS 02/20/2009 10:33 AM PHARMACeUtiCAlS / US teKineMABOUR CARING GENERATES:
Green Power
C
ork is a very nice town,
friendly people—the only
drawback is the rain,”
says Ibrahim Khadra, Staff
Engineer with Global
Pharmaceutical Supply
Group, LLC, Worldwide Engineering as he
looks back on his recently completed
three-year assignment in Ireland.
“Of course, there’s an advantage to the
rain: It keeps the country green.”
After all, green—green power—is what brought Khadra
to Ireland. He was the project lead responsible for building
a 2.1-megawatt biomass boiler that uses wood chips at
the Centocor Biologics (Ireland) manufacturing facility
(“BioCork”). The boiler replaces half the natural gas used at
the facility and reduces its carbon dioxide (CO) emissions
2
by 22 percent. The wood chips that fuel the boiler are the
by-products (such as branches) from logging in sustainable
forests near Cork.
Biomass a First For Biotech Completed in September 2008,
the biomass boiler is the first project of its kind within
Johnson & Johnson in the biotech sector (a Cilag AG pharmaceu-
tical manufacturing facility in Switzerland also uses a biomass As the wood chips burn, carbon dioxide is released into the
boiler) and the first such installation for a pharmaceutical company atmosphere. Ash produced in the burning process is collected and
in Ireland. “It was never a slam dunk,” says Khadra. “Nobody has used to fertilize new trees, which then absorb CO 2, completing a
done this for a biotech facility, and when you think of biomass, and sustainable, carbon-neutral cycle.
you think of burning wood chips, you think of a very dirty operation.”
BioCork manufactures monoclonal antibodies, the basis for reDUciNG emissioNs Johnson & Johnson began setting
biologic medicines such as ustekinumab (see story on page 12). environmental goals in 1987 and in 1999 established a goal
Khadra says making the biomass boiler a clean, contained to reduce CO 2 emissions from facilities worldwide by 7 percent
operation was an intriguing challenge, given the delicate require- in absolute terms by 2010. By improving energy efficiency,
ments for producing monoclonal antibodies. establishing on-site cogeneration and renewable-energy projects,
“We came up with this idea of hook bins, essentially converted using green power and purchasing carbon offsets, the company is
trailers designed with moving floors, which allow us to handle on target to meet that goal. (See a map of worldwide sustainability
the wood chips in a very clean, contained way,” says Khadra. projects on www. jnj.com.)
The wood chips are fed by auger into the boiler, where they are In 2005, when the BioCork facility was being built, there was
burned to heat water. The resulting steam is used to heat the a strong commitment to reduce the new site’s carbon footprint by
facility and run the manufacturing process. approximately 20 percent. “From the initial design, we looked at a
14 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTcariNG F or the eNviroNmeNt “When you’re outside here in Ireland, you feel alive,” says Ibrahim Khadra,
Staff Engineer with Global Pharmaceutical Supply Group, LLC, Worldwide Engineering. When Khadra got involved in
building a biomass boiler for Centocor Biologics (Ireland), Ltd., he was motivated by the goal to reduce CO emissions
2
from Johnson & Johnson facilities worldwide by 7 percent in absolute terms by 2010. He says: “That fact alone
makes me want to do everything I can to come up with innovative ideas and ways to reduce our carbon footprint.”
number of ways of further minimizing our impact on the environ- Johnson & Johnson Worldwide Environment, Health and Safety,
ment, including the biomass boiler,” says Jonathan Sowerbutts, and Category Winner in Sustainability for the 2009 Facility
Director of Engineering, Centocor Biologics (Ireland), Ltd. of the Year Award, from ISPE, INTERPHEX and Pharmaceutical
“The financial and particularly the environmental benefits Processing magazine.
outweighed adding cost and complexity to the overall project.” Khadra, who worked on building the Centocor, Inc. biologic
facility in Malvern, Pa., in 1999, readily sees how learning from
makiNG the impossiBle possiBle Sowerbutts and Khadra the past makes BioCork a current best practice. And what can be
emphasize the project could not have happened without learned from the biomass boiler? “What I’m hoping the biomass
the significant organizational support it received. BioCork has boiler project allows is for the impossible to become possible,”
since won internal and external awards, including an Khadra says. “What you see today—the biomass boiler running,
Excellence Award for design, construction and start-up from how clean of a process it is—you’ve seen the possible.”
GREEN PO wER 15OuR cARing TOucheS:
Diabetes Remotely
M
adison, 13, has diabetes and needs to give herself insulin up to eight times
a day. For an active teenager, that could easily be embarrassing if not
debilitating. But with her new insulin pump, Madi gets the insulin she
needs in class and on the roller rink, and her friends hardly notice.
“It looks like I’m texting,” she says. “People can see me as anyone else.”
Madi uses the OneTOuch® Ping™ glucose management Franchise are committed to raising the standard of care world-
system, the first full-feature insulin pump with a meter-remote. wide for this global epidemic, which affects nearly 250 million
Launched in 2008, it’s the first integrated product from twoo f the people and is growing at an alarming rate.
companies that comprise the Diabetes Care Franchise: Animas To that end, the Johnson & Johnson Diabetes Institute, LLC
Corporation, a maker of insulin pumps that Johnson & Johnson launched its first center in the United States in 2008. The
acquired in 2006, and LifeScan, Inc., maker of the OneTOuch® California facility provides product training and education for
brand of blood glucose meters. thousands of community-based health professionals. Led by
Animas, LifeScan and other companies focus on patients like former Acting U.S. Surgeon General Kenneth P. Moritsugu, M.D.,
Madi to develop a full spectrum of solutions to manage diabetes: M.P.H., Johnson & Johnson Diabetes Institute centers also
The patient is at the center, which leads to a holistic approach operate in China, France and Japan, and there are plans to
to patient care. The companies that comprise the Diabetes Care continue expanding globally.
16 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORT
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE LEvEL REviSiONS 02/18/2009 3:26 PM COMPREHENSivE CARE / DiAbETES JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE LEvEL REviSiONS 02/18/2009 3:26 PM COMPREHENSivE CARE / DiAbETESON THE GO Madi discreetly manages her diabetes and doesn’t let it get in the way of being an active teenager.
“I can reassure kids that everything is going to be OK because people would never think of me as, ‘Oh, she has diabetes.’
People say, ‘Wow, she’s so active.’ That’s the message I want to get out: You can live the same lifestyle that you did before.”
Also in 2008, LifeScan acquired Children with Diabetes, Inc. “I like to wear dresses, and that way I can take my insulin with a
(www.childrenwithdiabetes.com), a respected online ladylike composure,” Madi says.
community that offers science-based education and friend- In school she unzips her pink purse, pulls out her meter-remote
ships, and also sponsors family conferences. A Spanish-language —which looks like a cell phone—and checks her blood glucose
diabetes website, Diabetes Juvenil (www.diabetesjuvenil.com), level. After Madi makes a few calculations, her meter-remote can
joined Children with Diabetes (CWD) in October 2008. instruct the pump concealed under her clothes to deliver insulin.
Diabetes Juvenil is one of the biggest online communities for Not even the girls at her table notice. In less than a minute,
Spanish-speaking families living with type 1 diabetes. Together, Madi is back to her lesson. “It’s really easy,” the eighth grader says.
CWD and Diabetes Juvenil can help meet the needs of families It also works for her active lifestyle. Madi often needs insulin
affected by diabetes around the world. during roller hockey games or when she sings and dances in
shows, and she no longer has to access the pump secured under
“REALLy EASy” Diagnosed with type 1 diabetes at age 5, Madi her uniform or costume. Some days she wears her pink pump on
felt embarrassed pulling out needles in public, and the welts from her belt loop. “It matches all my outfits,” she says with a smile.
the multiple injections hurt when she danced and played roller Madi is passionate about helping other kids with diabetes.
hockey. At age 7 she switched to an AnimAS® insulin pump, An advocate for the American Diabetes Association (ADA),
which delivered insulin through a small tube attached to her body. Madi organizes skating fundraisers at her local rink and creates
After checking her blood glucose level, Madi would make colorful journals to sell. The captain of her own ADA walk team,
a quick calculation to determine her insulin needs, then press Madison’s Prayer, she is one of the biggest child fundraisers and
a few buttons on her pump to send the appropriate amount of raised $10,000 in 2007. Madi also visits children newly
insulin. “It made my life so much easier,” she says. diagnosed with diabetes to share her story and deliver bags that
Managing her diabetes became easier still with the she decorates and fills with gifts and information.
OneTOuch® Ping™ glucose management system. Now, Madi “I made a promise that I’m going to help them,” she says.
doesn’t have to touch her pump all day. Instead, the wireless “My dream is finding a cure, and I’m doing everything in my
meter-remote sends a signal to the pump to deliver her insulin. power to help.”
DIABETES REMOTELY 17
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE LEvEL REviSiONS 02/18/2009 3:26 PM COMPREHENSivE CARE / DiAbETESOUR CARING EMPOWERS:
Living Positively
A
t eight months pregnant, Kangela received
heartbreaking news: She was HIV-positive.
“It was like the whole world had come to an how to safely feed their babies. They encourage
end,” says Kangela, who lives in South Africa’s women to join an m2m support group, where
Eastern Cape region. “I didn’t know what to do. I was moms share their stories and form friendships.
thinking: Is my baby going to die? How am I going to “The mentor mothers’ strength has been
tell this to my mom and deal with the community?” transformational for families in South Africa,”
Kangela was not alone in her fears. In sub- says Dr. Besser. “These women no longer feel like
Saharan Africa, more than 22 million people are outcasts in society. They belong to a vibrant
infected with HIV, representing about two-thirds community where they are raising healthy babies
of the world’s HIV population, according to 2008 and living positive lives.”
UNAIDS figures. Infected women who become
pregnant risk passing the virus on to their children. THE POwER Of PARTNERiNg m2m program leaders
“When I first came to practice medicine say that partnerships with business, government
in South Africa in 1999, there were no programs and other groups have allowed the program
or resources for HIV-positive women,” says to grow and reach more women every day.
obstetrician/gynecologist Mitch Besser, M.D., Johnson & Johnson helped establish two m2m
founder of the organization mothers2mothers sites in 2005 and currently supports 15 sites across
(m2m). “People weren’t getting tested, women East London, Port Elizabeth and the Cape Town area.
didn’t know how to feed their babies without For its work with m2m, Johnson & Johnson
passing on the virus, and they were terrified to received the 2008 Award for Business Excellence
disclose their HIV status to family members.” on HIV/AIDS Addressing Women and Girls from
Overworked doctors and nurses had little time the Global Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS,
to provide support for HIV patients. “In 2001, Tuberculosis and Malaria. The m2m program is
we decided to train another kind of health care among more than 100 HIV/AIDS programs that
provider—mothers who were living with HIV,” Johnson & Johnson supports across 50 countries.
says Dr. Besser. “In Cape Town, we established “Our partnership with Johnson & Johnson has
the first mothers2mothers program, where allowed us to reach enormous numbers of
HIV-positive mothers began serving as mentors women,” says Dr. Besser. “We want to take the m2m
and sharing their experiences and knowledge with program everywhere it is needed. What began as a
other moms.” simple idea has changed the way thousands of
women feel, cope and live.”
MOTHERS HELPiNg MOTHERS By 2008, the
m2m program had grown to 400 program sites, THE MANTRA: ‘NO MORE’ “No more infected
reaching 130,000 women each month. More than babies. No more dying mothers”— this is the m2m
1,000 moms are trained as mentors, including mantra, says Kangela. And each time she looks at
Kangela. Dr. Besser says that nearly all the her 4-year-old son, she smiles. “My son is healthy,
HIV-positive women who participate in the very cute and playful. I am proof that there is hope.
program have HIV-negative babies. And I look forward to the day when we can all raise
“Women come to us, and they are crying. our children in an HIV-free generation.”
They are scared. I tell them my story: that I am
fiNDiNg HOPE Kangela is an HIV-positive
HIV-positive but my child is HIV-negative,”
mother and mentor with the mothers2mothers
says Kangela. “I tell them, ‘You are going to make
program in South Africa. Because of the program,
it, and you will raise a healthy baby.’”
her 4-year-old son was born without contracting
The mentor mothers talk to women about the disease from his mother. m2m is among
condom use, the importance of early infant more than 100 HIV/AIDS programs that
testing, proper diet, antiretroviral treatments and Johnson & Johnson supports across 50 countries.
18
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE LEvEL REviSiONS 02/13/2009 2:26 AM MOTHERS 2 MOTHERS JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE LEvEL REviSiONS 02/13/2009 2:26 AM MOTHERS 2 MOTHERSJOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE LEvEL REviSiONS 02/13/2009 2:26 AM MOTHERS 2 MOTHERS2008 YEAR IN REVIEW:
Consumer Health Care
Over-the-Counter Science Drives
ZYRTEC® Development
Launched in Skin Care
In January 2008, McNeil Consumer Science is the catalyst
Healthcare Division of McNEIL-PPC, Inc. behind many of our growth
launched ZYrtEc® (cetirizine HCl) for sale strategies. This includes
without a prescription in the United States, organic growth of iconic
in what was the largest Rx-to-OTC switch brands, new ventures and
in the Company’s history. The OTC rights even emerging markets
to market ZYrtEc®, which until the where the scientific
launch was the No. 1 prescription allergy and technical challenge
medicine in the U.S., were gained is to develop and grow
as part of the 2006 Pfizer Consumer products that are effective,
Healthcare acquisition. appealing and provide
Early launch efforts focused on ensuring value to consumers
that a large percentage of ZYrtEc® across cultures and
prescription users followed the brand socioeconomic groups.
from Rx to the OTC side. We also worked Worldwide demand
to grow the market and capture share from for products using natural
allergy sufferers using other Rx and OTC ingredients continues to drive growth battery-operated, hand-held applicator that
medications for whom ZYrtEc® would be for the AVEENO® brand, which uses helps get rid of stubborn blackheads and
appropriate. ZYrtEc-D® (cetirizine HCl a science-based approach to develop ActiVE prevent new ones from forming. The brand
5 mg/pseudoephedrine HCl 120 mg), which NAturAls™ with superior efficacy. Long continued to expand internationally, launching
combines ZYrtEc® with a decongestant, known for its natural oatmeal products, successfully in India with a campaign of
was launched at the same time. AVEENO® has expanded its lineup of natural culturally relevant television advertising.
Working with the pharmaceutical ingredients to include soy, Feverfew PFE™ and
business was an important component of Natural Shiitake Complex, among others. JOHNSON’S® GrOwS GlObally With a
the launch success, allowing McNeil In 2008, AVEENO® continued to grow, presence in 175 countries, JOHNsON’s®
Consumer Healthcare to work with health introducing the AVEENO® POsitiVElY Baby continued to gain new users and to
care plans, pharmacy benefit managers, AGElEss™ Lifting and Firming Facial grow its business in international markets.
national retailers and employers before the Skincare line with Natural Shiitake Complex Growth was driven by a focus on the core
ZYrtEc® launch to educate and inform them and Natural Wheat Protein. The line business, including the original pink
about the switch. Thanks to these efforts, includes a daily exfoliating facial cleanser, JOHNsON’s® Baby Lotion, which now
millions of ZYrtEc® prescription users a rejuvenating serum, an eye cream, a daily has a clinically superior formulation and
received switch moisturizer with SPF 30 and a night cream. moisturizes for 24 hours.
information All are designed to work with the skin’s JOHNsON’s® Body Care experienced
and a coupon chemistry to deliver anti-aging benefits. In strong growth in Japan, thanks to a successful
from their health clinical studies, 97 percent of women showed extension into adult moisturizers and
plan, and millions improvement in four weeks. cleansers. The JOHNsON’s® brand is now
more ZYrtEc® In other skin care news, clEAN & clEAr®, No. 1 in the Japanese body lotion market and
and allergy the No. 1 skin care brand for young women, No. 2 in body cleansers.
prescription users built on its leadership position with JOHNsON’s® also has been providing
received a similar the continued success of the ADVANtAGE® innovative solutions to consumers in
communication Acne Control Kit. It also launched emerging markets, most notably by driving a
from their the ADVANtAGE® BlAcKHEAD ErAsEr™ switch from bar soap to JOHNsON’s® liquid
employer. Exfoliating Cleanser, a water-resistant cleansers, which are milder and less irritating.
20 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTA SCIENCE-BASED APPROACh TO GROWTh
CONNECTING CLINICALLY PROVEN EffICACY WITh
CONSuMER INSIGhTS
MANY BRANDS RECOMMENDED BY hEALTh CARE PROfESSIONALS
Oral Care Reaches New Markets Expanding
Our Presence
in China
The Johnson & Johnson Healthcare Products Division of McNEIL-PPC,
Inc. continues to be a driving force in the oral care category,
marketing the world’s No. 1 mouthwash, listEriNE®. We continue
to see strong growth from brands like listEriNE®, which has
thrived for generations thanks to innovative products and science-
based claims that are based on deep consumer insights.
Geographic expansion is helping to drive growth. In August 2008
we launched listEriNE® tOtAl cArE® in the United Kingdom,
which helped deliver strong results for the listEriNE® brand
in Europe. tOtAl cArE®, the most advanced and complete
listEriNE® mouthwash, is the first to combine a range of benefits:
It reduces plaque, kills bacteria, fights bad breath, keeps gums healthy,
strengthens teeth with fluoride and keeps teeth naturally white.
We also reinforced rEAcH® lines in 2008, emphasizing
the angled neck of the rEAcH® toothbrush with the introduction
of the rEAcH® ultrAclEAN™ brush, which removes up to
90 percent of plaque in hard-to-reach places. At the same time,
ultrAclEAN™ floss, with its revolutionary MicrO GrOOVEs™
technology, gives consumers what they’ve been looking for—a floss
that slides easily and removes plaque effectively.
For 20 years, Johnson & Johnson has
Consumer promoted health and well-being in China.
SKIN CARE
Segment $3.4 BABY CARE We built on this presence in 2008 with
Sales +11% $2.2 the acquisition of Beijing Dabao Cosmetics
+12% Company, Ltd.
Sales by Major Franchise
(in billions of dollars)* Our first personal care acquisition
2008 Sales: $16.0 billion in China brings with it the country’s No. 1
Growth Rate: 10.8% WOMEN’S moisturizer and a brand that is well-known
hEALTh
$1.9 and respected among Chinese consumers.
+6% This transaction is an extension of
our commitment to China and to the
continued development of its consumer
health care sector. Since establishing our
first joint venture in China in 1985,
the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies
WOuND has continuously demonstrated our
CARE/
OThER commitment to improving the health and
$1.0
well-being of Chinese families and to China
OTC
PhARMACEuTICALS +1% as an important market.
& NuTRITIONALS
$5.9 The DABAO® skin care line includes
ORAL CARE
+15% $1.6 various products well-known in Chinese
+9% households, including SOD Milk, Beauty Day
* includes rounding
Cream and SOD Protein Milk.
YEAR IN REVIEW 212008 YEAR IN REVIEW:
Pharmaceuticals
R&D Productivity
Key to Future Growth
Sustaining R&D productivity, reducing time
and cost, and maintaining quality have been
fundamental imperatives for our pharma-
ceutical business. Recently the pharmaceutical
industry, while facing growing generic
competition and a more demanding regulatory
environment, has seen its once-strong
pipelines soften. During this time, however,
we have sustained research productivity
and are on track to complete filings for seven
to 10 new products between the beginning
of 2008 and the end of 2010. In doing so,
we’ll meet a goal set back in 2007. We are
demonstrating what can be achieved when
dedicated employees work together in moving
new compounds from concept to reality.
Organic growth, as well as strategic
in-licensing and partnerships, have
contributed to reaching regulatory
milestones. Success has been driven by
research and development where we use NEw BIOLOGIC Members of the ustekinumab compound development team (above)
discovered the human monoclonal antibody more than 10 years ago. It has been approved in
our expertise in biopharmaceuticals and
Canada and the 27 EU countries and is under review with the U.S. FDA.
small molecules to focus effectively on the
discovery and development of new molecular • A Biologics License Application (BLA) is a centrally acting oral analgesic with a
entities while pursuing innovative platforms was submitted to the FDA requesting comprehensive dual mechanism of action,
and technologies for drug delivery. approval of golimumab (CNTO 148), a combining mu-opioid receptor agonism
Here are highlights of significant next-generation human anti-TNF-alpha and norepinephrine reuptake inhibition
regulatory milestones in 2008. monoclonal antibody, as a monthly to significantly relieve moderate to
subcutaneous treatment for adults with severe acute pain with a low incidence of
IMMUNOLOGY active forms of rheumatoid arthritis, gastrointestinal side effects. NUCYNTA™
• STELARA™ (ustekinumab) is a new biologic psoriatic arthritis and ankylosing is being co-developed by Grünenthal
medicine for which Johnson & Johnson spondylitis. It is being developed as both a and Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical
has worldwide marketing rights. It has subcutaneous injection and an intravenous Research & Development, LLC (J&JPRD).
been approved by regulatory authorities infusion therapy. Other potential claims
in Canada and the 27 European Union and uses being studied include impact on CARDIOVASCULAR
countries for treatment of moderate to structural damage related to rheumatoid • A New Drug Application (NDA) was filed
severe plaque psoriasis. STELARA™ is arthritis and ulcerative colitis. with the FDA for rivaroxaban, an
currently under review by the U.S. Food and investigational oral, once-daily anticoagulant
Drug Administration (FDA), and marketing PAIN MANAGEMENT for the prevention of deep vein thrombosis
applications for the treatment of moderate to • NUCYNTA™ (tapentadol) immediate- (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) in
severe plaque psoriasis have been filed with release tablets were granted FDA approval patients undergoing hip or knee replacement
local health authorities in numerous other for the relief of moderate to severe acute surgery. Initially developed for prevention of
regions around the world. pain in adults age 18 and older. NUCYNTA™ DVT and PE in hip and knee replacements,
22 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTINNOVATIVE PLATFORMS AND TECHNOLOGIES DRIVING GROWTH
PROMISING EARLY- AND LATE-STAGE PIPELINE
NINE PRODUCTS WITH REVENUE OF MORE THAN $1 BILLION EACH
larger opportunities exist for rivaroxaban, for use in combination with antidepressants coccus aureus (MRSA). Janssen-Cilag will
with possible additional indications for and/or mood stabilizers. market the drug, which is licensed from and
venous thromboembolism treatment, stroke • An NDA was submitted to the FDA for co-developed with Basilea Pharmaceutica
prevention in atrial fibrillation, prevention of carisbamate, an investigational compound Ltd., as ZEVTERA™ in Switzerland.
DVT and PE in patients hospitalized with for the adjunctive treatment of partial-onset
medical illnesses, and acute coronary seizures in patients age 16 and older. In 1999, CONTINUED GROwTH
syndrome. J&JPRD is c0-developing J&JPRD and SK Holdings Co., Ltd. entered In addition, several of our currently marketed
rivaroxaban with Bayer HealthCare AG, which into a license agreement to develop and and well-performing products received regula-
holds marketing rights in countries outside commercialize carisbamate, with J&JPRD tory approval for new indications or received
the U.S. If the drug is approved by the FDA, receiving global marketing rights. approvals in additional markets in 2008:
Ortho-McNeil, a division of Ortho-McNeil- • The European Commission approved
Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc., will market it INFECTIOUS DISEASE once-daily dosing of 800 mg PREZISTA®
in the U.S. • ZEfTERA™ (ceftobiprole) has been (darunavir) with low-dose ritonavir as part
approved in Switzerland, Canada and the of combination therapy in treatment-naïve
CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Ukraine for the treatment of complicated adults (those who have never taken HIV
• Two supplemental New Drug Applications skin and soft tissue infections. It is under medication). This approval broadens the
(sNDAs) were submitted to the FDA review in the U.S., Europe, Australia and previous indication of darunavir for treatment-
requesting approval for the use of INVEGA® several other countries and has the ability to experienced HIV-1 patients and means that
(paliperidone) tablets for the treatment of address a broad range of serious bacteria, PREZISTA® can be used for the full spectrum
schizoaffective disorder as monotherapy and including methicillin-resistant staphylo- of adult HIV/AIDS patients in the 27 EU
member states. In the U.S., PREZISTA®
Pharmaceutical OTHER received full approval for twice-daily use in
Segment Sales $7.3 ACIPHEX®/PARIET® treatment-experienced adult patients and an
$1.2
+11%
Sales by Major Product (15%) expanded indication for once-daily dosing as
(in billions of dollars)* part of HIV combination therapy in patients
DURAGESIC®
2008 Sales: $24.6 billion $1.0 who have never taken HIV medicines.
Growth Rate: (1.2%)
(11%) • INTELENCE™ (etravirine), which the
LEVAQUIN®/ FDA approved in early 2008, received
FLOXIN®
marketing authorization in Canada and the
$1.6
EU for HIV combination therapy.
(3%)
CONCERTA®
$ 1.2 • An sNDA was submitted for the
combination of DOXIL® (doxorubicin
+21%
HCl liposome injection) and TAXOTERE®
RISPERDAL® (docetaxel) for the treatment of women with
CONSTA®
$1.3 TOPAMAX® advanced breast cancer who have received
$2.7
+16% prior anthracycline treatment.
+11%
• An NDA was submitted for the use of
trabectedin in combination with DOXIL®
RISPERDAL®
$2.1 for the treatment of women with relapsed
(38%) ovarian cancer. Trabectedin is being
PROCRIT®/EPREX® REMICADE® developed under a license from PharmaMar,
$2.5 $3.7
and DOXIL® is marketed by Ortho Biotech
* includes rounding (15%) +13%
Products, LP in the United States.
YEAR IN REVIEW 232008 YEAR IN REVIEW:
Medical Devices & Diagnostics
Ethicon Endo-Surgery Ethicon
Transforms Patient Care Strengthens
Foundation
In late 2008, Johnson & Johnson acquired
Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., a fully
integrated biopharmaceutical company that
develops and markets biosurgical and
immunotherapy products. Omrix is expected
to operate as a stand-alone entity reporting
through Ethicon, Inc. The acquisition
provides Ethicon with an opportunity to
strengthen its presence in active, biologic-
based hemostats and convergent products
for various surgical applications.
Ethicon currently has exclusive U.S.
and European Union distribution rights for
EVITHROM™ Thrombin Topical (Human)
and EVICEL™ Fibrin Sealant (Human),
Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. continued to interactive, one-of-a-kind support system two active, biologic-based hemostats
drive business growth in 2008 with a number that guides patients on a path of lifestyle manufactured by Omrix. Ethicon and Omrix
of strategic achievements in new and existing changes to help them sustain weight loss. are also partnering on a Fibrin Pad product
markets. In March, the company submitted Use of the REALIZE mySUCCESS™ program candidate, currently in Phase II clinical
a Premarket Approval application to the U.S. starts before surgery and continues well after. trials, as an adjunct to control mild
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for In October, Ethicon Endo-Surgery to moderate soft tissue bleeding.
the SEDASYS® System, the first computer- advanced its rich history of investing in R&D In early 2009, Johnson & Johnson
assisted personalized sedation (CAPS) by completing the acquisition of SurgRx, Inc., completed the acquisition of Mentor
system. It is intended for use by physician/ a privately held developer of the advanced Corporation, a leading supplier of medical
nurse teams administering minimal to bipolar vessel-sealing technology used in the products for the global aesthetic market.
moderate propofol sedation to patients ENSEAL® family of devices. This acquisition Mentor is expected to operate as a stand-
undergoing screening and diagnostic brings together two leading complementary alone business unit reporting through Ethicon.
procedures for colorectal cancer and energy technologies in the rapidly evolving The acquisition will provide Ethicon with an
disorders of the upper gastrointestinal tract. global energy segment. The combined opportunity to strengthen its presence in
Building on its commitment to long-term portfolio of ENSEAL® products and the aesthetic and reconstructive medicine while
patient outcomes, Ethicon Endo-Surgery Ethicon Endo-Surgery HARMONIC® line expanding our capacity to provide physicians
received FDA approval for the REALIZE™ of ultrasonic medical devices offers greater with products that can restore patients’
Adjustable Gastric Band-C, the newest functionality and flexibility for diverse appearance, self-esteem and quality of life.
addition to the REALIZE™ Personalized surgical procedure requirements. Ethicon and Mentor are two companies
Banding Solution for weight reduction in that are committed to bringing evidence-
people suffering from morbid obesity. The based medicine and the highest standards of
REALIZE™ Band-C offers a streamlined, quality to the aesthetic and reconstructive
curved design, an expanded adjustment medical device category, and both companies
range to accommodate larger patients and share a commitment to science, health and
REALIZE™ BAND PATIENTS: Go to
a re-lockable closing mechanism for intra- wellness. Mentor will become the cornerstone
www.realizeband.com to learn about real
operative repositioning. In addition, the people receiving support to achieve long-term of a broader Johnson & Johnson leadership
REALIZE mySUCCESS™ program extends weight loss with the REALIZE™ Personalized strategy for aesthetic medicine, serving both
the continuum of care through a web-based Banding Solution. consumers and medical professionals.
24 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTLARGESTMEDICALDEVICECOMPANYINTHEWORLD
NO.1ORNO.2INTHEMAJORITYOFMARKETSINWHICHWECOMPETE
WELL-POISEDFORGROWTH
A New Era Vision Care Franchise
in Diagnostics Continues to Grow
TheOrtho-ClinicalDiagnostics,Inc.(OCD) of-the-artmanufacturingplantinPencoed,
fullyintegrated,globalbusinesscomprises Wales,andanacquisitionsecuringapoint-of-
laboratorytestsandinstrumentation carechannelthatwillallowthecompanyto
foruseintransfusionmedicineandclinical bringdiagnosticsdirectlytothephysician.
laboratories.OCDisdrivinggrowthinits Diagnosticsplayamajorroleinhealth
corebusinesseswithnewproducts careoutcomes:Morethan60percent
andlaunchinghigh-impactmedicaltestsin ofhealthcaredecisionsaremadeusing
molecularandcellulardiagnosticsthat diagnostictestresults.Matchingdiagnostics
willcreateanentirelynewtypeofvaluefor withtherapiesallowsforamoretargeted Johnson&JohnsonVisionCare,Inc.
themedicalsystem. approach,providinginformationthatphysicians continuestomaintainitsleadership
In2008,thecompanybroughttomarket canusetoimprovepatientoutcomes. position,launchingnumerousinnovative
twonewlaboratorysystems:theVITROS® DiagnosticscanhelpJohnson&Johnson eyecareproductsdesignedtoimprovethe
5600IntegratedSystemandtheVITROS® achieveorganicconvergence,leveragingits livesofpatientseverywhere.
3600ImmunodiagnosticSystem.These broad-basedpositioninhealthcare ACUVUE®remainstheworld’smost
next-generationinstrumentsaredesigned todrivenewapproachesinpatientcare.OCD widelyprescribedcontactlensbrand.In2008
torunmorethan100clinicalchemistryand iscommittedtobringingproductstomarket thebrandgrewwiththeadditionoftwo
immunoassaytests. thatcanidentifyillnessesinadvanceof newproducts:ACUVUE®OASYS™Brand
OCDhasastrongpipelinethatissupported disease,potentiallyavoidingprogressionto ContactLensesforASTIGMATISMand,
byrecentinvestments,includinganewstate- moreseriousdisorders. introducedintheUnitedKingdom,1-DAY
ACUVUE®TruEye™,theworld’sfirstdaily
Medical disposablesiliconehydrogelcontactlens.
Devices& ENDE OT -H SUIC RO GN ERY® Buildingonitspartnershipwitheyecare
Diagnostics $4.3 DEPUY® practitioners,theVisionCareInstitute™,LLC
$5.0
Segment +12% nowhasmorethan11sisterinstitutesinsuch
+9%
diversecitiesasBangkok,Shanghai,Tokyo,
Sales
PragueandDubai.Launchedin2004asa
Salesby
sourceofcontinuouslearningand
MajorFranchise DIABETES
(inbillionsofdollars)* CARE information,theVisionCareInstitute™,
$2.5
2008Sales: LLCanditssisterunitshavetrainedmore
+7%
$23.1billion
than30,000eyepractitionersworldwide.
GrowthRate:6.4%
ACUVUE®continuestobeinnovativein
otherways,suchasusingdigitalmediawith
toolslikeACUMINDER™,acomplimentary
ORTHO-CLINICAL onlineservice(www.acuminder.com)that
DIAGNOSTICS®
sendsanautomaticreminderviae-mail,
$1.8
textmessageorcomputerpromptto
+8%
ETHICON® changeorordernewcontactlenses.The
$3.9
expandedfunctionalityofACUMINDER™
+7%
Facebook(www.acuminder.com/facebook)
VISIONCARE
$2.5 alsoallowsuserstosendoutremindersfor
+13% CORDIS® justaboutanything,suchastakingdaily
$3.1
medications,doctors’visits,workdeadlines,
*includesrounding (9%)
socialeventsandmore.
YEAR IN REVIEW 25DePuy Helps Patients LifeScan Reaches
“Never Stop Moving” More Patients
Within the orthopaedic market, the DePuy surgical precision and flexibility, and the
franchise is the leading full-line player. SIGMA® PS Femur, which optimizes function
Its products and services span the entire and fit for high-demand patients. Entering
orthopaedic care continuum, from early into the growing aging-spine market, DePuy
intervention through joint replacement, Spine introduced the CONFIDENCE™
trauma, spinal fusion and neuro-surgical SPINAL CEMENT SYSTEM™ for vertebral
care. Its companies—DePuy Orthopaedics, compression fractures.
Inc., DePuy Spine, Inc., DePuy Mitek, Inc. and To enhance patient education about
Codman & Shurtleff, Inc.—are increasingly orthopaedic procedures, DePuy developed
focused on meeting patient needs earlier in an integrated initiative in the U.S. themed
the care continuum. “Never Stop Moving™.” The campaign In 2008, LifeScan, Inc., a leading maker of
The franchise introduced more than featured Mike Krzyzewski, “Coach K,” a blood glucose monitoring products,
20 products in 2008. Significant new joint- DePuy hip patient and coach of the 2008 U.S. demonstrated its commitment to people with
replacement products include TRI-LOCK™ Olympic Team of Men’s Basketball and Duke diabetes through continuous innovation.
Bone Preservation Stem with proprietary University Basketball. The goal is to motivate LifeScan introduced the ONETOUCH®
GRIPTION™ technology for stability, and osteoarthritis sufferers to learn more about ULTRALINK™ Blood Glucose Meter as
enhancements to the SIGMA® Knee System; treatment options and seek the care of the new, exclusive meter with wireless
these include SIGMA® High Performance an orthopaedic surgeon. Patients can visit communications for use with Medtronic
instruments to enhance procedure efficiency, www.depuyusa.com to learn more. insulin pumps in the United States. It uses
Medtronic-certified wireless technology to
Cordis Transforms Cardiovascular Care transmit glucose readings directly to
MINIMED PARADIGM® insulin pumps,
making bolus dosing more accurate and easier
than with manual entry of blood glucose
Cardiologists worldwide have chosen Cordis Corporation’s flagship product, the CYPHER® readings. LifeScan also introduced two new
Sirolimus-eluting Coronary Stent, to treat more than 3 million patients with coronary colors for its ONETOUCH® ULTRAMINI®
artery disease. Now clinical trials are under way around the world in support of two new Blood Glucose Meter: Purple Twilight™ and
drug-eluting stents from Cordis, the CYPHER® ELITE™ Sirolimus-eluting Coronary Stent Blue Comet™. It is now offered in six colors
and the NEVO™ Sirolimus-eluting Coronary Stent. The NEVO™ Stent utilizes a new and has become the No. 1-selling blood
reservoir (RES) technology and avoids the need for surface coating. Rather, the stent has glucose meter in the U.S.
hundreds of small holes (reservoirs) in the stent struts, loaded with a bioresorbable drug- In Europe, where approximately
polymer matrix. After the drug has been delivered, the biodegradable coating dissolves, 50 million people have diabetes, LifeScan
leaving behind only the bare-metal stent. This approach is intended to provide the same launched the ONETOUCH® VITA™ Blood
degree of restenosis prevention as a conventional drug-eluting stent but faster and more Glucose Meter. Using MealMemory™
complete vessel healing after stent implantation. technology to calculate blood glucose
Also in 2008, Cordis announced the placement of the one millionth S.M.A.R.T.™ Nitinol averages based on 7-, 14- and 30-day periods,
Self-Expandable Stent System, which is used to treat a range of peripheral vascular diseases. this new meter may be of particular benefit to
In early 2009, Cordis’ Biosense Webster unit received U.S. FDA approval for the people with type 2 diabetes who find their
NAVISTAR® THERMOCOOL® catheter for treatment of atrial fibrillation, an abnormal heart disease complex and difficult to manage.
rhythm that affects 10 million people worldwide. During cardiac ablation, energy is delivered Users can also attach an “after meal” flag
through the catheter to those areas of the heart muscle causing the abnormal heart rhythm. to their test result to help them link the
This energy “disconnects” the pathway of the abnormal rhythm. This is the first ablation effects of what they’ve eaten to their blood
catheter approved in the U.S. for the treatment of atrial fibrillation. glucose level.
26 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORT2008 YEAR IN REVIEW:
Wellness & Prevention
Wellness & Prevention Platform
keeps Employees healthy and Engaged
Judy Herlich tried many diets over the years,
but the weight always crept back on. Then
in 2005, Herlich received an e-mail from her
company’s Health & Benefits group,
inviting employees to try HealthMedia®,
a web-based program that helps people
improve their behaviors in areas such as
weight and stress management, sleep quality,
smoking cessation and medication adherence.
Herlich lost the 36 pounds HealthMedia®
recommended through its online plan
tailored just for her. Four years later, she has
kept off the weight.
“I definitely have more energy, and I rarely
call in sick,” say Herlich, Associate Scientist,
Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical Research
& Development, LLC (J&JPRD), Raritan, N.J.
In 2008 Johnson & Johnson established a
Wellness & Prevention business platform to
deliver new growth for the Company through
a portfolio of products and services focused
on preventing chronic disease, keeping people
well and restoring faculties lost to aging.
Global health care systems, including
governments, employers and individuals, are STAYING HEALTHY Judy Herlich, an associate scientist at J&JPRD, uses many of her company’s
wellness programs to stay healthy. The Johnson & Johnson health and wellness program focuses
seeking new solutions to spiraling health care
on keeping employees healthy while containing health care costs and increasing productivity.
costs. The Wellness & Prevention platform
recognizes that a comprehensive solution must productivity. Grounded in the sciences of money and improve productivity.
begin long before the onset of illness and that performance psychology, exercise physiology Herlich says she feels more energetic
investing in wellness and prevention now can and nutrition, it teaches employees to since she began the HealthMedia®
avoid more costly health care expenses later. manage their energy so they can perform weight management program and started
Also in 2008, we concluded two strategic their best. HUMAN PERFORMANCE exercising daily at her company’s fitness
acquisitions as initial steps in building the INSTITUTE™ was co-founded in 1991 by center. She likes the moderate exercise and
Wellness & Prevention business. In October, best-selling author Dr. Jim Loehr and Dr. Jack eating plans, which don’t eliminate food
we acquired HealthMedia, Inc., which offers Groppel. Their work over the past 30 years groups, and the “90/10 Rule,” which says that
online health coaching for users like Herlich has helped athletes, military elite and as long as you stick to your plan 90 percent of
and has proven outcomes in increased corporations optimize performance. the time, you’ll succeed. From time to time
productivity and decreased medical usage. Initially, the Johnson & Johnson she updates her personalized plan. While
In December, we acquired LGE Performance Wellness & Prevention platform is focused HealthMedia® programs are grounded in
Systems, Inc., known as HUMAN on employers. Health care expenses are science, they are appealing to participants
PERFORMANCE INSTITUTE™, which among the most rapidly growing costs because they are personalized, easy to
develops science-based training programs for employers, and efforts that keep understand and they make sense. “It’s a real
to improve employee engagement and employees well and engaged will save common-sense approach,” Herlich says.
YEAR IN REVIEW 272008 YEAR IN REVIEW:
Caring for the World
Caring for Family Legacy of Philanthropy
and Communities Continues
at the Olympics
For 20 years, Johnson & Johnson has of caring by everyday people and athletes Johnson & Johnson has a long history of
promoted health and well-being through through the Caring Hearts contest and the giving, dating back more than 100 years.
its local affiliates in China. We continued Hearts of Gold program. This legacy of philanthropy is guided by
to carry that torch as a proud sponsor and For years, Johnson & Johnson has Our Credo responsibility to the
Official Partner of the Beijing 2008 Olympic partnered with the China Qin Shi Huang communities in which we live and work,
and Paralympic Games, a worldwide partner Terracotta Army Museum to use technology and to the world community as well. We
of the International Olympic Committee and and establish a center of excellence in work with hundreds of partners worldwide
the Official Health Care Products Partner of historic relic preservation in Xi’an, helping as we strive to make life-changing, long-term
National Olympic Committees in more than to preserve the life-size terracotta warriors differences in human health.
200 countries. and horses, which are more than 2,000 years In India, Nepal, and Pakistan, our
During the Olympics, Johnson & Johnson old. During the Beijing Games, the Company partnership with UNICEF helps save
helped better the health and well-being of honored this partnership by providing newborns’ lives. We support training of
families and communities through education visitors to the Johnson & Johnson Olympic community health workers in underserved
and information programs such as the Games Pavilion a rare opportunity to view areas and provide home-based newborn care
Johnson & Johnson Family Health Initiative, a five Qin Shi Huang terracotta warriors, which interventions—breastfeeding support and
comprehensive campaign featuring a number are among the 20th century’s most significant treatment for sepsis and hypothermia—to
of national health education programs that archaeological finds. Also at the Pavilion, reduce infant mortality.
will help families in China enjoy happier, larger-than-life marionettes told the story In Europe, we partner with INSEAD on
healthier lives. The Company supported of an ancient terracotta warrior brought to the European Health Leadership Program,
Olympic athletes and medical staff with life by a young girl. These marionettes will be providing health care industry managers
training, products and education, and preserved at the Xi’an museum. For more on with leadership training to help advance
celebrated and inspired extraordinary acts the Company’s work in China, see page 10. their roles in a rapidly changing industry. In
North America, our partnership with The
Wharton School has provided more than
1,000 senior nurse executives with business
and management skills over the past 25 years.
In Mexico, 1,400 underserved school-
children and 1,600 parents and teachers
have benefited from awareness campaigns
on the connection between diabetes and
obesity, also known as “diabesity.” In
partnership with Project HOPE, we promote
children’s eating and exercise habits and
educate families and teachers on conveying
positive nutrition messages to children.
Following the earthquake in Sichuan,
China, we provided product and monetary
donations for acute relief and long-term
psychological health and rehabilitation efforts
for thousands of families. And our chairman
and CEO co-led the U.S. government’s
public-private partnership mission to China
to explore long-term rebuilding efforts.
28 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTA Paperless Sustainability Measures
Notification Process
for Doctors
As a company with a longstanding Sustainability is an important part of our business efforts, our ability to protect the
commitment to patient and product safety, environment, respect our employees and be responsible to the world community. This data
Johnson & Johnson is pleased to be a partner summary table provides a sampling of the sustainability programs of Johnson & Johnson
in the Health Care Notification Network and its operating companies. To learn more about all our programs, visit www.jnj.com.
(HCNN), which rolled out in October
ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS Unit 2005 2006 2007
2008. Using electronic communication
methods, the HCNN dramatically Carbon Dioxide Net Emissions Thousand metric tons 961 891 923
improves the process of notifying U.S. Voluntary CO Offsets (incl. REC’s) Thousand metric tons 317 395 400
2
physicians of time-sensitive and important
Water Use Million m3 12.5 13.0 11.8
patient safety information. It provides
timely, effective and efficient delivery of Non-Hazardous Waste Million kg 60.0 57.2 54.0
information to the nation’s physicians, and
Hazardous Waste Million kg 35.2 38.9 33.8
now other manufacturers are recognizing
the importance of this groundbreaking
communication system. EMPLOYEE HEALTH INDICATORS Unit 2005 2006 2007
Free to all licensed U.S. physicians
Tobacco Use % of profiled employees 5 4 4
and their staff, the HCNN is used solely
High Blood Pressure (above 140/90) % of profiled employees 10 6 6
for FDA-mandated Patient Safety Alerts,
fulfilling the recently updated FDA guidance High Cholesterol (above 240 mg/dl) % of profiled employees 8 6 7
for the electronic delivery of these alerts.
Inactivity % of profiled employees 38 35 36
Physicians and health care providers can
(below 30 min/day, 4 days/week)
register to receive electronic alerts at www.
hcnn.net or through participating medical EMPLOYEE SAFETY INDICATORS Unit 2005 2006 2007
societies and other HCNN partners. The
Serious Injury/Illness Rate Incidents per 100 employees 0.03 0.03 0.02
HCNN is a green initiative in that it reduces
paper usage and the need for mail delivery. Lost Workday Case Rate Incidents per 100 employees 0.06 0.07 0.08
Partnering in Russia Fleet Car Accidents Accidents per million 4.86 5.32 5.30
miles driven
for Patients
Ergonomic Injuries % of lost workday cases 21 28 33
In a unique partnership, Johnson & Johnson
ACCESS2WELLNESS™
Medical Russia, along with Janssen-Cilag,
is working with the Russian Ministry of Expands Language Options
Health to achieve a professional-education
goal by creating the Russian Center for
Professional Education in Kazan. The ACCess2wellNess™, a program that offers a single entry point into one of the broadest
center has the capacity to train up to 3,000 selections of patient assistance programs, is now available in Spanish. Located at
physicians every year; two more training www.access2wellness.com, this Spanish-language service provides access to more than 1,000 free
centers in Russia are being planned. This and discounted prescription medications for uninsured and underinsured people who qualify.
partnership will help improve health care ACCess2wellNess™ is divided into sections developed to address the specific needs of
access for patients while providing better patients, caregivers, health care professionals, hospital administrators and advocate organiza-
training to physicians and, ultimately, more tions. The exclusive ACCess2wellNess™ Online Eligibility Tool offers a quick and easy way
access to improved medical technologies. to find out which assistance programs are available and who qualifies for them.
YEAR IN REVIEW 29Board of
Directors
First Row, Left to Right
WILLIAM C. WELDON
Chairman, Board of Directors
and Chief Executive Officer
MARY SUE COLEMAN, PH.D.
President, University of Michigan
Second Row, Left to Right
JAMES G. CULLEN
Retired President and Chief Operating
Officer, Bell Atlantic Corporation
MICHAEL M. E. JOHNS, M.D.
Chancellor, Emory University
Third Row, Left to Right
ARNOLD G. LANGBO
Retired Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer, Kellogg Company
SUSAN L. LINDQUIST, PH.D.
Member and Former Director,
Whitehead Institute for
Biomedical Research; Professor
of Biology, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology
Fourth Row, Left to Right
LEO F. MULLIN
Retired Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer,
Delta Air Lines, Inc.
WILLIAM D. PEREZ
Retired President and
Chief Executive Officer,
Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company
Fifth Row, Left to Right
CHARLES PRINCE
Chairman, Sconset Group;
Vice Chairman and Chairman
of the Board of Advisors,
Stonebridge International, LLC;
Retired Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer, Citigroup Inc.
DAVID SATCHER, M.D., PH.D.
Director, Center of Excellence
on Health Disparities,
Director, Satcher Health
Leadership Institute and
Poussaint-Satcher-Cosby Chair
in Mental Health, Morehouse
School of Medicine; Former
U.S. Surgeon General
30 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTCommittees NOMINATING & CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee,
of the Board comprised entirely of independent Directors, is responsible
for overseeing corporate governance matters, reviewing
possible candidates for Board membership and recommending
nominees for election. The Committee is also responsible for
overseeing the process for performance evaluations of the
Board and its committees. Additionally, the Committee reviews
the Company’s management succession plans and executive
resources.
Charles Prince, Chairman
AUDIT James G. Cullen
The Audit Committee, comprised entirely of independent
Arnold G. Langbo
Directors, helps the Board oversee the Company’s accounting
and reporting practices. It recommends independent public
accountants for appointment by the Board and reviews their per-
PUBLIC POLICY
formance; monitors the adequacy of internal accounting
The Public Policy Advisory Committee reviews the
practices, procedures and controls; and reviews all significant
Company’s policies, programs and practices on public health
changes in accounting policies.
issues regarding the environment and the health and safety of
employees. The Committee also reviews the Company’s
James G. Cullen, Chairman
governmental affairs and policies and other public policy issues
Mary Sue Coleman, Ph.D.
facing the Company. The Committee advises and makes
Leo F. Mullin
recommendations to the Board on these issues as appropriate.
The Public Policy Advisory Committee is comprised of
independent Directors and the Company’s General Counsel and
COMPENSATION & BENEFITS Vice Presidents for Corporate Affairs, Government Affairs and
The Compensation & Benefits Committee, comprised entirely
Policy, and Worldwide Operations.
of independent Directors, establishes the Company’s executive
compensation philosophy and principles and approves the
Leo F. Mullin, Chairman
annual compensation and long-term incentives for the
Russell C. Deyo
Company’s directors and executive officers. The Committee
Clifford E. Holland
also reviews the philosophy and policies of the non-Board
Susan L. Lindquist, Ph.D.
Management Compensation Committee, which determines
William D. Perez
management compensation and establishes perquisites and
Brian D. Perkins
other compensation policies for non-executive employees.
David Satcher, M.D., Ph.D.
Additionally, the Committee oversees the management of the
Ajit Shetty, Ph.D.
various retirement, pension, long-term incentive, savings,
health and welfare plans that cover the Company’s employees.
SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
Arnold G. Langbo, Chairman
The Science & Technology Advisory Committee, comprised
Michael M. E. Johns, M.D.
of independent Directors and the Company’s Vice President,
William D. Perez
Science and Technology, advises the Board on scientific
Charles Prince
matters, including major internal projects, interaction
with academic and other outside research organizations,
and the acquisition of technologies and products.
FINANCE
The Finance Committee exercises the management authority of
David Satcher, M.D., Ph.D., Chairman
the Board during the intervals between Board meetings.
Mary Sue Coleman, Ph.D.
The Finance Committee is comprised of the Chairman of the
Michael M. E. Johns, M.D.
Board and the Presiding Director.
Susan L. Lindquist, Ph.D.
Garry Neil, M.D.
William C. Weldon, Chairman
James G. Cullen
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD 31CORPORATE OFFICERS
WILLIAM C. WELDON ALEX GORSKY The Executive Committee of
Chairman, Board of Directors Worldwide Chairman, Johnson & Johnson is the principal
Chief Executive Officer Surgical Care Group management group responsible
Chairman, Executive Committee Executive Committee for the operations and allocation
of the resources of the Company.
DOMINIC J. CARUSO RAYMOND C. JORDAN This Committee oversees
Vice President, Finance Vice President, Public Affairs & and coordinates the activities of
Chief Financial Officer Corporate Communication the Consumer, Pharmaceuticals
Executive Committee and Medical Devices and
SHERILYN S. MCCOY Diagnostics business segments.
DONALD M. CASEY, JR. Worldwide Chairman, Each subsidiary within the
Worldwide Chairman, Pharmaceuticals Group business segments is, with some
Comprehensive Care Group Executive Committee exceptions, managed by citizens
Executive Committee of the country where it is located.
JOHN A. PAPA
STEPHEN J. COSGROVE Treasurer
Corporate Controller
BRIAN D. PERKINS
LAVERNE H. COUNCIL Vice President, Corporate Affairs
Vice President
Chief Information Officer STEVEN M. ROSENBERG
Secretary
RUSSELL C. DEYO Associate General Counsel
Vice President, General Counsel
Executive Committee NICHOLAS J. VALERIANI
Vice President, Office of
KAYE I. FOSTER-CHEEK Strategy & Growth
Vice President, Human Resources Executive Committee
Executive Committee
COLLEEN A. GOGGINS
Worldwide Chairman,
Consumer Group
Executive Committee
COMPANY GROUP CHAIRMEN
JOAQUIN DUATO DAVID Y. NORTON MICHAEL E. SNEED
SETH H. Z. FISCHER MICHEL PAUL PERICLES P. STAMATIADES
GUY J. LEBEAU, M.D. KRISTINE PETERSON PAUL A. STOFFELS, M.D.
KAREN A. LICITRA GARY J. PRUDEN JESSE J. WU
MICHAEL F. MAHONEY MARC E. ROBINSON
PATRICK D. MUTCHLER JOSE V. SARTARELLI, PH.D.
32 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTCorporate Governance and Management’s Responsibility
Johnson & Johnson is guided by the values set forth in Our Credo, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
created by General Robert Wood Johnson in 1943. These principles accounting firm, is engaged to perform an integrated audit of our
have guided us over the years and continue to set the tone of consolidated financial statements and internal control over financial
integrity for the entire Company. At all levels, the employees of reporting. The Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Johnson & Johnson are committed tothe ethical principles embod- Firm is onpage 69.
ied in Our Credo and these principles have been woven into the The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors is composed
fabric of the Company. solely of independent directors with the financial knowledge and
The values articulated in Our Credo extend to our accounting experience to provide appropriate oversight. We review internal
and financial responsibilities to Johnson & Johnson shareholders control matters and key accounting and financial reporting issues
and investors. We, the management of Johnson & Johnson, are with the Audit Committee on a regular basis. In addition, the inde-
responsible for the integrity and objectivity of the accompanying pendent auditors, the General Counsel and the Vice President of
financial statements and related information. We are also responsi- Internal Audit regularly meet in private sessions with our Audit
ble for ensuring that financial data is reported accurately and in a Committee to discuss the results of their work including observa-
manner that facilitates the understanding of thisdata. tions on the adequacy of internal financial controls, the quality
As evidence of our commitment to this responsibility, we offinancial reporting and confirmation that they are properly
maintain a well-designed system of internal accounting controls, discharging their responsibilities and other relevant matters.
encourage strong and effective corporate governance from our Our Executive Committee is continuously involved in the
Board of Directors, continuously review our business results and review of financial results as well as developing and understanding
strategic choices, and focus on financial stewardship. strategies and key initiatives for long-term growth. Our intent is to
Our corporate staff of professionally trained internal auditors, ensure that we maintain objectivity in our business assessments,
who travel worldwide, monitor our system of internal accounting constructively challengethe approach tobusiness opportunities and
controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are issues, and monitor our business results and the related controls.
safeguardedand that transactions and events are recorded properly. Our consolidated financial statements and financial data that
Our internal controls include self-assessments and internal reviews follow have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles
of our operating companies. generally accepted in the United States of America and include
During 2008, the Companycontinued toinvest significant amounts that are based upon our best judgments. We are commit-
timeand resources in order to ensure compliance with Section ted to present and discuss results of operations in a clear and
404of the Sarbanes-OxleyAct of 2002. Based on the work per- transparent manner in order to provide timely, comprehensive
formed, we have concluded that our internal control over financial andunderstandable information to our shareholders.
reporting was effective as of December 28, 2008. We refer you to
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
on page 69.
Werequire the management teams of our operating companies
tocertify their compliance with our Policy on Business Conduct and William C. Weldon Dominic J.Caruso
wehaveasystematic program designed to ensure compliance with Chairman, Boardof VicePresident, Finance,
these policies. To view our Policy onBusiness Conduct, please visit Directors, and Chief and Chief Financial Officer
our website at www.investor.jnj.com/governance/conduct.cfm. Executive Officer
Table of Contents
MANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS AUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
34 Organization and Business Segments 44 Consolidated Balance Sheets
34 Results of Operations 45 Consolidated Statements of Earnings
35 Analysis of Sales byBusinessSegments 46 Consolidated Statements of Equity
37 Analysis of Consolidated Earnings Before Provision for 47 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Taxes on Income 48 Notes toConsolidated Financial Statements
40 Liquidityand Capital Resources 69 ReportofIndependent Registered Public Accounting Firm
41 Other Information 69 Management’s Report on Internal Control over
43 Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results FinancialReporting
70 Summary of Operations and Statistical Data 1998–2008
71 Shareholder Return Performance Graphs
72 Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORT 33Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Organization and Business Segments MANAGEMENT’S OBJECTIVES
Aprimary objective of the Company is to achieve superior levels of
DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY AND BUSINESS SEGMENTS
capital efficient profitable growth. To accomplish this, the Com-
Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) have
pany’s management operates the business consistent with certain
approximately 118,700 employees worldwide engaged in the
strategic principles that have proven successful over time. To this
research and development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of
end, the Company participates in growth areas in human health care
products in the health care field. The Company conducts business in
and is committed to attaining leadership positions in these growth
virtually all countries of the world with the primary focus on products
areas through the development of innovative products and services.
related to human health and well-being.
New products introduced within the past five years accounted for
The Company is organized into three business segments:
approximately 30% of 2008 sales. In 2008, $7.6 billion, or 11.9% of
Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics.
sales, was invested in research and development, consistent with
The Consumer segment includes a broad range of products used in
2007. This investment reflects management’s commitment to the
the baby care, skin care, oralcare, wound care and women’s health
importance of ongoing development of new and differentiated
care fields, as well as nutritional and over-the-counter pharmaceuti-
products and services to sustain long-term growth.
cal products. These products are marketed to the general public
With more than 250 operating companies located in 57
andsold both to distributors and directly to independent and chain
countries, the Company views its principle of decentralized man-
retail outlets throughout the world. The Pharmaceutical segment
agement as an asset and fundamental to the success of a broadly
includes products in the following therapeutic areas: anti-infective,
based business. It also fosters an entrepreneurial spirit, combining
antipsychotic, cardiovascular, contraceptive, dermatology, gas-
the extensive resources of a large organization with the ability to
trointestinal, hematology, immunology, neurology, oncology, pain
react quickly to local market changes and challenges.
management, urology and virology. These products are distributed
The Company is committed to developing global business lead-
directly toretailers, wholesalers and health care professionals for
ers who can drive growth objectives. Businesses are managed for the
prescription use. The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment
long-term in order to sustain leadership positions and achieve growth
includes a broad range ofproducts used principally in the profes-
that provides an enduring source of value to our shareholders.
sional fields byphysicians, nurses, therapists, hospitals, diagnostic
Unifying the management team and the Company’s dedicated
laboratories and clinics. These products include Cordis’ circulatory
employees in achieving these objectives is Our Credo. Our Credo
disease management products; DePuy’s orthopaedic joint recon-
provides a common set of values and serves as a constant reminder
struction, spinal care and sports medicine products; Ethicon’s
of the Company’s responsibilities to its customers, employees, com-
surgical care and women’s health products; Ethicon Endo-Surgery’s
munities and shareholders. The Companybelieves that these basic
minimally invasive surgical products; LifeScan’s blood glucose
principles, along with itsoverall mission of improving the quality
monitoring and insulin delivery products; Ortho-Clinical Diagnos-
oflife for people everywhere, will enable Johnson & Johnson to
tics’ professional diagnostic products andVistakon’s disposable
continue tobeamong the leadersin the health careindustry.
contact lenses.
The Company’sstructureis based upon the principle of
Results of Operations
decentralized management. The Executive Committee of
Johnson&Johnson is the principal management group responsible
ANALYSIS OF CONSOLIDATED SALES
for the operations and allocation of the resources of the Company. In 2008, worldwide sales increased 4.3% to $63.7 billion, compared
This Committee oversees and coordinates the activities of the to increases of 14.6% in 2007 and 5.6% in 2006. These sales
Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics increases consisted of the following:
business segments.
In all of its product lines, the Company competes with compa- Sales increase due to: 2008 2007 2006
Volume 1.1% 10.1 3.8
nies both local and global, located throughout the world. Competi-
tion exists in all product lines without regard to thenumber andsize Price 0.8 1.4 1.5
of the competing companies involved. Competition inresearch, Currency 2.4 3.1 0.3
involving the development and the improvement ofnew and existing Total 4.3% 14.6 5.6
products and processes, is particularly significant. The development
of new and innovative products is important to the Company’s suc- Sales by U.S. companies were $32.3 billion in 2008, $32.4 billion in
cess in all areas of its business. This also includes protecting the 2007 and $29.8 billion in 2006. This represents a decrease of 0.4%
Company’s portfolio of intellectual property. The competitive envi- in 2008 and increases of 9.0% and 4.9% in 2007and 2006, respec-
ronment requires substantial investments in continuing research tively. Sales by international companies were $31.4 billion in 2008,
and in sales forces. Inaddition, the development and maintenance $28.7 billion in 2007 and $23.5 billion in 2006. This represents an
of customer demand for the Company’s consumer products involves increase of 9.7% in 2008, 21.7% in 2007 and 6.4% in 2006.
significant expenditures for advertising andpromotion.
34 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTU.S.and 70 Salesby 70
InternationalSales 60 Segment 60
for10Years (inbillionsofdollars)
(inbillionsofdollars) 50 50
40 Consumer 40
U.S. Pharmaceutical
International 30 MedicalDevices 30
andDiagnostics
20 20
10 10
0 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 0077 08 0 06 07 08
The five-year compound annual growth rates for worldwide, Analysis of Sales by Business Segments
U.S.and international sales were 8.8%, 5.0% and 13.6%, respectively.
CONSUMER SEGMENT
The ten-year compound annual growth rates for worldwide, U.S. and
Consumer segment sales in 2008 were $16.0 billion, an increase of
international sales were 10.3%, 9.6% and 11.2%, respectively.
10.8% over 2007 with 8.3% of this change due to operational
growth and the remaining 2.5% due to positive currency fluctua-
tions. U.S. Consumer segment sales were $6.9 billion, an increase
Salesby 70 of8.3%. International sales were $9.1 billion, an increase of 12.8%,
Geographic 60 with 8.3% as a result of operations and 4.5% due to currency
Region
fluctuations over 2007.
(inbillionsofdollars) 50
The Over-the-Counter (OTC) Pharmaceuticals and Nutritionals
U.S. 40 franchise sales were $5.9 billion, an increase of 14.6% from 2007.
E Wu ero sp tee rnHemisphere 30 The primary contributor to the growth was the successful launch of
excludingU.S. over-the-counter ZYRTEC® allergy product line in the U.S. In 2008,
20
AsiaPacific,Africa the Companyannounced a voluntary labeling change on children’s
10 cough and cold medicines regarding usage for children under the
age of 4 years, to encourage the safe, effective use of these prod-
0
06 07 08 ucts. These actions did not haveasignificant impact on sales for
theOTC Pharmaceuticals and Nutritionals franchise.
The Skin Carefranchise sales grewby10.8% to $3.4 billion in
All international geographic regions experienced sales growth
2008. The sales growth was primarily due to the AVEENO®, CLEAN
during 2008, consisting of 7.3% in Europe, 10.5% in the Western
&CLEAR®, NEUTROGENA® and JOHNSON’S® Adult product lines,
Hemisphere(excluding the U.S.) and 13.9% in the Asia-Pacific,
as well as new products related to the acquisition of Beijing Dabao
Africa regions. These sales increases include the impact of currency
Cosmetics Co. Ltd. The Baby Care franchise sales grew by 11.7% to
fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies, which
$2.2billion in 2008. This growth was primarily in international mar-
had positiveimpacts of 5.5% in Europe, 2.8% in the Western
kets across all product lines. The Women’s Health franchise sales
Hemisphere (excluding the U.S.) and 5.5% in the Asia-Pacific,
grewby5.8% to $1.9 billion in 2008 primarily due to the successful
Africaregion.
launch of new products. The Oral Care franchise sales grew by 9.1%
In 2008, 2007and 2006, the Company did not have a cus-
to$1.6 billion in 2008. Sales growth was driven by the performance
tomer that represented 10% or more of total consolidated revenues.
of the LISTERINE® mouthwash product line.
Consumer segment sales in 2007were$14.5 billion, an
increase of 48.3% over 2006 with 44.2% of this change due to
operational growth and the remaining 4.1% due to positive currency
fluctuations. U.S. Consumer segment sales were$6.4 billion, an
increase of 40.1%. International sales were $8.1 billion, an increase
of 55.5%, with 47.8% as a result of operations and 7.7% due to
currency fluctuations over 2006. The acquisition of Pfizer Inc.’s
Consumer Healthcare business, net of the related divestitures,
increased both total sales growth and operational growth for the
total Consumer segment by40.3% in 2007.
Major Consumer Franchise Sales:
_______%__C_h_a_n_g_e_______
(Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 2006 ’08 vs. ’07 ’07 vs. ’06
OTCPharmaceuticals & Nutritionals $ 5,894 5,142 2,742 14.6% 87.5
Skin Care 3,381 3,051 2,633 10.8 15.9
Baby Care 2,214 1,982 1,740 11.7 13.9
Women’sHealth 1,911 1,806 1,666 5.8 8.4
Oral Care 1,624 1,488 406 9.1 266.5
Wound Care/Other 1,030 1,024 587 0.6 74.4
Total $16,054 14,493 9,774 10.8% 48.3
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 35PHARMACEUTICAL SEGMENT oral in the U.S. expired on June 29, 2008. Loss of market exclusivity
Pharmaceutical segment sales in 2008 were $24.6 billion, a for the RISPERDAL® oral patent has resulted in a significant reduc-
decrease of 1.2% over 2007, with an operational decline of 3.1% and tion in sales in the U.S. In 2008, U.S. sales of RISPERDAL® oral were
1.9% increase due to the positive impact of currency fluctuations. $1.3 billion. In the first half of the 2008 fiscal year U.S. sales of
U.S. Pharmaceutical segment sales were $14.9 billion, a decrease of RISPERDAL® oral were $1.1 billion and $0.2 billion in the second half.
4.9%. International Pharmaceutical segment sales were $9.7 billion, RISPERDAL® CONSTA® (risperidone), a long-acting injectable
an increase of 5.1%, which included 0.1% of operational growth and for the treatment of schizophrenia, achieved sales of $1.3 billion
5.0% related to the positive impact of currency fluctuations. in2008, representing an increase of 16.0% as compared to the
REMICADE® (infliximab), a biologic approved for the treat- prioryear. The growth was due to a positive shift from once per day
ment of Crohn’s disease, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriasis, psoriatic therapies to longer-acting RISPERDAL® CONSTA®.
arthritis, ulcerative colitis and use in the treatment of rheumatoid CONCERTA® (methylphenidate HCl), a product for the treat-
arthritis, achieved sales of $3.7 billion in 2008, with growth of ment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), achieved
12.7%over prior year. Growth was driven by increased demand due sales of $1.2 billion in 2008, representing an increase of 21.3% over
to the introduction of new clinical data and overall market growth. 2007. Sales results were favorably impacted by approximately $115
REMICADE® is competing in a market which is experiencing million related to a change in the estimate of accrued sales reserves.
increased competition due to new entrants and the expansion of Anadditional contributor to the sales growth was market growth.
indications for existing competitors. Although the original CONCERTA® patent expired in 2004, the
TOPAMAX® (topiramate), which has been approved for FDAhas not approved any generic version that is substitutable
adjunctive and monotherapy use in epilepsy, as well as for the pro- forCONCERTA®. Two parties have filed Abbreviated New Drug
phylactic treatment of migraines, achieved sales of $2.7 billion in Applications (ANDAs) for generic versions of CONCERTA®, which
2008, an increase of 11.3% over prior year. The growth was primarily are pending and may be approved at any time.
due to increases in the migraine category partially offset by generic LEVAQUIN® (levofloxacin)/FLOXIN® (ofloxacin) and
competition in certain markets outside the U.S. The patent for ACIPHEX®/PARIET® (rabeprazole sodium) experienced sales
TOPAMAX® (topiramate) in the U.S. expired in September 2008. declines of3.3% and 14.7%, respectively, versus the prior year due
InJuly 2008, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted to competition in the category. DURAGESIC®/Fentanyl Transdermal
pediatric exclusivity for TOPAMAX®, which extends market (fentanyl transdermal system) sales declined 11.0% versus the prior
exclusivity in the U.S. until March 2009. In 2008, U.S. sales of year due to generic competition.
TOPAMAX® were $2.3 billion. The expiration of the product patent In 2008, Other Pharmaceutical sales were$7.2billion, repre-
orloss of market exclusivity is likely to result in a significant senting a growth of 10.9% over prior year. Contributors to the
reduction in sales. increase were sales of VELCADE® (bortezomib), a product for the
PROCRIT® (Epoetin alfa) and EPREX® (Epoetin alfa) had com- treatment of multiple myeloma, PREZISTA®(darunavir), for the
bined sales of $2.5 billion in 2008, a decline of 14.7% compared to treatment of HIV/AIDS patients and INVEGA® (paliperidone), a
prior year. The decline was primarily due to the declining markets once-daily atypical antipsychotic.
forErythropoiesis Stimulating Agents (ESAs)in the U.S. The FDA During 2008, the Company received regulatory approval in the
issued an order requiring a labeling supplement making specific U.S., Canada and European Union for INTELENCETM(etravirine) for
revisions to the label for ESAs, including PROCRIT®. The label for HIV combination therapy. STELARATM(ustekinumab) was
PROCRIT® was updated July 30,2008, based on reviewof emerg- approved in Canada and the European Union for the treatment of
ing safety data for the use of ESAs in patients with cancer. Outside moderatetosevere plaque psoriasis and is currently under review
the U.S., new competition and the emerging safety data issues have with the FDA. In addition, NUCYNTATM(tapentadol) immediate-
contributed to the lower sales results for EPREX®. Discussions with release tablets for the relief of moderate to severe acute pain in
European regulators regarding changes to the label for ESAs, includ- adults 18 years of age or older was approved in the U.S.
ing EPREX®, are nearing finalization. The Company also received approvals expanding the indica-
RISPERDAL® (risperidone), a medication that treats the symp- tions for several key products, including CONCERTA®, to treat
toms of schizophrenia, bipolar mania and irritability associated with ADHD in adults ages 18 to 65 in the U.S., VELCADE®, in combina-
autistic behavior in indicated patients, experienced a sales decline tion with melphalan and prednisone for the treatment of patients
of 37.8% to $2.1 billion in 2008. Market exclusivity for RISPERDAL® with previously untreated multiple myeloma in the European Union
Major Pharmaceutical Product Revenues*:
_______%__C_h_a_n_g_e_______
(Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 2006 ’08 vs. ’07 ’07 vs. ’06
REMICADE® (infliximab) $ 3,748 3,327 3,013 12.7% 10.4
TOPAMAX® (topiramate) 2,731 2,453 2,027 11.3 21.0
PROCRIT®/EPREX® (Epoetin alfa) 2,460 2,885 3,180 (14.7) (9.3)
RISPERDAL® (risperidone) 2,126 3,420 3,334 (37.8) 2.6
LEVAQUIN®/FLOXIN® (levofloxacin/ofloxacin) 1,591 1,646 1,530 (3.3) 7.6
RISPERDAL®CONSTA® (risperidone) 1,309 1,128 849 16.0 32.9
CONCERTA® (methylphenidate HCl) 1,247 1,028 930 21.3 10.5
ACIPHEX®/PARIET® (rabeprazole sodium) 1,158 1,357 1,239 (14.7) 9.5
DURAGESIC®/Fentanyl Transdermal (fentanyl transdermal system) 1,036 1,164 1,295 (11.0) (10.1)
Other 7,161 6,458 5,870 10.9 10.0
Total $24,567 24,866 23,267 (1.2)% 6.9
*Prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current presentation.
36 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTandPREZISTA®, for once-daily dosing as part of HIV combination the technology. Additional contributors to the growth were the
therapy in treatment-naïve adults and traditional approval as a REALIZE® Gastric Band in the U.S. and endoscopy products outside
twice-daily dose foruse in treatment-experienced adult patients in the U.S.
the U.S. Outside the U.S., the European Commission granted full The Ethicon franchise achieved sales of $3.8 billion in 2008, a
approval of PREZISTA® in combination with ritonavir and other anti- 6.6% increase over prior year. This was a result of growth in the
retroviral medicinal products for the treatment of HIV-1 infection, hemostasis, meshes and biosurgical product lines.
and extended the indication to include all treatment-experienced Sales in the Cordis franchise were $3.1 billion, a decline of
adultpatients. 8.5%over 2007. The decline reflects lower sales of the CYPHER®
The Company submitted applications for regulatory approval of Sirolimus-eluting Coronary Stent due to increased global compe-
four additional compounds in 2008. Golimumab, a monthly subcu- tition. The decline was partially offset by the performance of the
taneous treatment for adults with active forms of rheumatoid arthri- Biosense Webster and neurovascular businesses.
tis, psoriatic arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis, was filed in the U.S. The Diabetes Care franchise achieved sales of $2.5 billion in
and European Union. In the U.S., filings were submitted for rivaroxa- 2008, a 6.8% increase over prior year. This growth was driven by
ban, an oral, once-daily anticoagulant for the prevention of deep sales in the Animas business due to new product launches and
vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) in patients salesgrowth in the ULTRA® product lines outside the U.S.
undergoing hip or knee replacement surgery, carisbamate, for the The Vision Care franchise achieved sales of $2.5 billion in
adjunctive treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 16 years 2008, a 13.2% increase over prior year. Sales of ACUVUE®
ofage and older, and trabectedin, known as YONDELIS® outside the OASYS™, 1-DAY ACUVUE® MOIST™, and ACUVUE® OASYS™
U.S., administered in combination with DOXIL® (doxorubicin HCl forASTIGMATISM were the major contributors to this growth.
liposome injection) for the treatment of women with relapsed The Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics franchise achieved sales of
ovarian cancer. $1.8billion in 2008, an 8.0% increase over prior year resulting from
Pharmaceutical segment sales in 2007 were $24.9 billion, growth in both immunohematology and immunodiagnostics products.
anincrease of 6.9% over 2006, with 4.3% of this change due to The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment achieved sales
operational growth and the remaining 2.6% increase related to the of $21.7 billion in 2007, representing an increase over prior year of
positive impact of currency fluctuations. U.S. Pharmaceutical seg- 7.2%, with operational growth of 3.9% and 3.3% due to a positive
ment sales were$15.6billion, an increase of 3.4%. International impact from currency fluctuations. U.S. sales were $10.4 billion, an
Pharmaceutical segment sales were $9.3 billion, an increase of increase of 3.2%. International sales were $11.3 billion, an increase
13.3%, which included 5.9% of operational growth and 7.4% of 11.1%, with 4.6% from operations and a positivecurrency impact
relatedto the positive impact of currency fluctuations. of 6.5%.
MEDICAL DEVICES AND DIAGNOSTICS SEGMENT Analysis of Consolidated Earnings
The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment achieved sales of
Before Provision forTaxes on Income
$23.1 billion in 2008, representing an increase of 6.4% over the
prior year, with operational growth of 3.5% and 2.9% due to a Consolidated earnings before provision for taxes on income
positiveimpact from currency fluctuations. U.S. sales were $10.5 bil- increased by $3.6 billion to $16.9 billion in 2008 as compared to
lion, an increase of 1.0%. International sales were $12.6 billion, an the$13.3 billion earned in 2007. Contributing to the $3.6 billion
increase of 11.3%, with 5.8% from operations and a positive increase in 2008 werelower in-process research and development
currency impact of 5.5%. charges of $0.6billion, higher income from divestitures of$0.5 bil-
The DePuy franchise achieved sales of $5.0 billion in 2008, lion and higher litigation gains of$0.5 billion versus restructuring
an8.8% increase over prior year. This growth was primarily due to charges of $0.7 billion and the write-down of the NATRECOR®
DePuy’s orthopaedic joint reconstruction products, including the intangible asset of $0.7 billion recorded in 2007. The decrease in
hipand knee product lines. Additionally, new product launches in 2007 of 8.9% over the $14.6 billion in 2006 was primarily due
the Mitek sports medicine product line contributed to the growth. torestructuring charges and the write-down of the NATRECOR®
The Ethicon Endo-Surgery franchise achieved sales of $4.3bil- intangible asset in 2007. As a percent to sales, consolidated earn-
lion in 2008, an 11.8% increase over prior year. This growth was ings beforeprovision for taxes on income in 2008 was26.5% versus
mainly driven by the HARMONIC® technology business due to the 21.7% in 2007. The sections that follow highlight the significant
success of newly launched products and the underlying strength of components of the changes in consolidated earnings before
provision for taxes on income.
Major Medical Devices and Diagnostics Franchise Sales*:
_______%__C_h_a_n_g_e_______
(Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 2006 ’08 vs. ’07 ’07 vs. ’06
DEPUY® $ 4,989 4,587 4,105 8.8% 11.7
ETHICON ENDO-SURGERY® 4,286 3,834 3,376 11.8 13.6
ETHICON® 3,840 3,603 3,223 6.6 11.8
CORDIS® 3,135 3,425 4,088 (8.5) (16.2)
Diabetes Care 2,535 2,373 2,074 6.8 14.4
Vision Care 2,500 2,209 1,879 13.2 17.6
ORTHO-CLINICAL DIAGNOSTICS® 1,841 1,705 1,538 8.0 10.9
Total $23,126 21,736 20,283 6.4% 7.2
*Prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current presentation.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 37Cost of Products Sold and Selling, Marketing and Administrative agreater proportion of sales were attributable to the Consumer
Expenses:Cost of products sold and selling, marketing and segment, which has higher selling, marketing and administrative
administrative expenses as a percent to sales were as follows: spending. Additionally, in 2008 the Company utilized the gain asso-
ciated with the divestiture of the Professional Wound Care business
%of Sales 2008 2007 2006
ofEthicon, Inc. to fund increased investment spending. This was
Cost of products sold 29.1% 29.1 28.2
partially offset by ongoing cost containment efforts.
Percent point increase over the prior year — 0.9 0.5
In 2007, there was an increase in the percent to sales of cost
Selling, marketing and administrative expenses 33.7 33.5 32.7 ofproducts sold primarily due to the impact of newly acquired
Percent point increase/(decrease) over the consumer brands. There was an increase in the percent to sales of
prior year 0.2 0.8 (1.4) selling, marketing and administrative expenses in 2007 primarily
due to the impact of newly acquired consumer brands partially
In 2008, cost of products sold as a percent to sales remained flat offset by cost containment efforts.
tothe prior year. The change in the mix of businesses, with higher In 2006, there was an increase in the percent to sales of
sales growth in the Consumer business and a slight sales decline in cost of products sold. This was due to unfavorable product mix and
the Pharmaceutical business continues to have a negative impact on higher manufacturing costs in the Pharmaceutical and Consumer
the cost of products sold as a percent to sales. In 2008, this was segments. There was a decrease in the percent to sales of selling,
offset by manufacturing efficiencies and non-recurring positive items marketing and administrative expenses in 2006. This was a result
in 2008 and negative items in 2007. There was an increase inthe ofleveraging selling expenses and a reduction in advertising and
percent to sales of selling, marketing and administrative expenses in promotional spending.
2008 primarily due to the change in the mix of businesses, whereby
Research and Development expense (excluding in-process research and development charges) by segment of business was as follows:
________2_0_0_8__________ _________2_0__0_7________ _________2_0_0_6_________
(Dollars in Millions) Amount % of Sales Amount % of Sales Amount % of Sales
Consumer $ 624 3.9% 564 3.9 395 4.0
Pharmaceutical 5,095 20.7 5,265 21.2 4,964 21.3
Medical Devices and Diagnostics 1,858 8.0 1,851 8.5 1,766 8.7
Total research and development expense $7,577 11.9 7,680 12.6 7,125 13.4
Percent (decrease)/increase over the prior year (1.3)% 7.8 10.3
Research and Development: Research and development activities afully integrated biopharmaceutical company that develops and
represent a significant partofthe Company’sbusiness. These markets biosurgical and immunotherapyproducts, accounted for
expenditures relate to the development of new products, improve- $127million before tax of the IPR&D charges.
ment of existing products, technical support of products and In 2007, the Company recorded a charge for IPR&D of $807
compliance with governmental regulations for the protection of million before and after tax related to the acquisition of Conor
consumers and patients. Medsystems, Inc. The IPR&D charge was included in the operating
In 2008, the reduction in the Pharmaceutical research and profit of the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment.
development spending was primarily due to increased efficiencies in In 2006, the Companyrecorded IPR&D charges of $559 million
Pharmaceutical research and development activities. before tax related to the acquisitions of the Consumer Healthcare
businessof Pfizer Inc., Vascular Control Systems, Inc., Ensure Med-
Restructuring:The Company has achieved approximately $1.6 billion
ical, Inc., ColBar LifeScience Ltd., Hand Innovations LLC and Future
in annual cost savings as outlined in therestructuring program
Medical Systems S.A. The charge related to the Consumer Health-
announced in 2007. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial State-
care business acquired from Pfizer Inc. accounted for $320 million
ments for additional details related to the restructuring.
before tax of the IPR&D charges and was included in the operating
In-Process Research and Development:In 2008, the Company profit of the Consumer segment. The IPR&D charges for all of the fol-
recorded a charge for in-process research and development (IPR&D) lowing acquisitions were included in the operating profit of the Med-
of $181 million beforeand after tax related tothe acquisitions of Amic ical Devices and Diagnostics segment. Vascular Control Systems,
AB, SurgRx, Inc., HealthMedia, Inc. and Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., a privately held company focused on developing medical devices
Inc. HealthMedia, Inc, a privately held company that creates web- to treat fibroids and to control bleeding in obstetric and gynecologic
based behavior changeinterventions, accounted for $7 million before applications, accounted for $87 million before tax of the IPR&D
tax of the IPR&D charges and was included in the operating profit of charges. Ensure Medical, Inc., a privately held company that develops
the Consumer segment. The IPR&D charges for all of the following devices for post-catheterization closure of the femoral artery,
acquisitions were included in the operating profit of the Medical accounted for $66 million before tax of the IPR&D charges. ColBar
Devices and Diagnostics segment. Amic AB, a Swedish developer of in LifeScienceLtd.,aprivately held company specializing in reconstruc-
vitro diagnostic technologies for use in point-of-care and near-patient tive medicine and tissue engineering, accounted for $49 million
settings (outside the physical facilities of the clinical laboratory), before tax ofthe IPR&D charges. Hand Innovations LLC, a privately
accounted for $40 million before taxof the IPR&D charges. SurgRx, held manufacturer of fracture fixation products for the upper
Inc., a privately held developer of the advanced bipolar tissue sealing extremities,accounted for $22 million before tax of the IPR&D
system used in the ENSEAL® family of devices, accounted for $7 mil- charges. FutureMedical Systems S.A., a privately held company that
lion before tax of the IPR&D charges. Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.,
38 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTprimarily develops, manufactures and markets arthroscopic fluid the Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. integration were
management systems, accounted for $15 million before tax of recorded during2006.
theIPR&D charges.
Pharmaceutical Segment:In 2008, Pharmaceutical segment
Other (Income) Expense, Net:Other (income) expense, net operating profit increased 16.3% from 2007. As a percent to sales,
includes gains and losses related to the sale and write-down of 2008 operating profit increased to 31.0%. The primary driver of the
certain investments in equity securities held by Johnson & Johnson improved operating profit was due to the restructuring charges of
Development Corporation, gains and losses on the disposal of $429 million and $678 million for the NATRECOR® intangible asset
property, plant and equipment, currency gains and losses, minority write-down recorded in 2007. In 2007, Pharmaceutical segment
interests, litigation settlements and liabilities and royalty income. operating profit decreased 5.1% from 2006. As a percent to sales,
The favorable change of $1.5 billion in other (income) expense, net 2007 operating profit decreased to 26.3% resulting from $429 mil-
from 2008 to 2007 was primarily due to an increase in income from lion of restructuring charges and $678 million for the NATRECOR®
net litigation settlements and awards of $0.5 billion, a gain of $0.5 intangible asset write-down in2007.
billion from the divestiture of the Professional Wound Care business
Medical Devices and Diagnostics Segment: In 2008, the operating
of Ethicon, Inc. in 2008 and the NATRECOR® intangible asset write-
profit in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment increased
down of $0.7 billion in 2007.
49.1% from 2007. As a percent to sales, 2008 operating profit
In 2007, other (income) expense, net included a charge of
increased to 31.2%. The improved operating profit was the result
$678 million before tax related to the NATRECOR® intangible asset
ofthe $429 million gain from net litigation settlements, favorable
write-down. A gain of $622 million associated with the Guidant
product mix, manufacturing efficiencies and lower IPR&D charges
acquisition agreement termination fee, less associated expenses,
of$174 million in 2008 versus $807 million in 2007. Additionally,
was included in 2006. In addition, 2006 also included expenses
$301 million of restructuring charges were recorded in 2007. In
associated with the recording of additional product liability reserves
2007, the operating profit in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics
and the integration costs associated with the acquisition of the
segment decreased 20.9% from 2006. As a percent to sales, 2007
Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc.
operating profit decreased to 22.3%, resulting from $807 million of
IPR&D charges and $301 million of restructuring charges in 2007,
OPERATING PROFIT BY SEGMENT
while 2006 included the gain associated with the Guidant acquisi-
Operating profits by segment of business were as follows:
tion agreement termination fee, less associated expenses, of
Percent of $622million.
_____S_e_g_m__e_n_t _S_a_le_s_____
Interest(Income) Expense:Interest income in 2008 decreased
(Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 2008 2007
by$91 million due to lower rates of interest earned despite higher
Consumer $2,674 2,277 16.7% 15.7
average cash balances. The cash balance, including marketable
Pharmaceutical 7,605 6,540 31.0 26.3
securities, was $12.8 billion at the end of 2008, and averaged
Med Devices and Diagnostics 7,223 4,846 31.2 22.3
$12.2billion as compared to the $6.6 billion average cash balance
Total (1) 17,502 13,663 27.4 22.4
in2007. The increase in the average cash balance was primarily
Less: Expenses not allocated duetocash generated from operating activities.
tosegments(2) 573 380
Interest expense in 2008 increased by $139 million due to a
Earnings beforeprovision higher debt balance. In the second half of 2007 the Company con-
for taxes on income $16,929 13,283 26.5% 21.7
verted some of its short-term debt to fixed long-term debtat higher
(1)See Note11 tothe Consolidated Financial Statements for more details. interest rates. The net debt balance at the end of 2008 was $11.9 bil-
(2)Amounts not allocated to segments include interest (income) expense, minority interest, lion as compared to $9.5 billion at the end of 2007. The higher debt
and general corporate (income) expense. balance in 2008 was primarily due to the purchase of the Com-
pany’s common stock under the ongoing Common Stockrepurchase
OperatingProfit 18 program announced on July 9, 2007 and to fundacquisitions.
bySegment
Interest income in 2007 decreased by $377 million due to
(inbillionsofdollars) 15
lower average cash balances. The decline in the average cash
12 balance was primarily due to the acquisition of the Consumer
Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. on December 20, 2006.
Pharmaceutical 9
MedicalDevices Interest expense in 2007 increased by $233 million as com-
andDiagnostics 6 pared toprior year due toahigher average debt balance. The net
debt balance at the end of 2007 was $9.5 billion as compared to
3 $6.6 billion at the end of 2006. The higher debt balance in 2007
was due tothe debt associated with the acquisition of the Con-
0
06 07 08 sumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. and the Common Stock
repurchase program announced in 2007.
Consumer Segment:In 2008, Consumer segment operating profit Interest income in 2006 increased by $342 million due
increased 17.4% from 2007.As a percent to sales, 2008 operating primarily to higher rates of interest, as well as a higher average
profit increased to 16.7%. Cost synergies, lower integration costs in cashbalance, despite the $5.0 billion Common Stock repurchase
2008 related to the acquisition of the Consumer Healthcare business program and an increase in acquisition activityas compared to
of Pfizer Inc., and other cost containment initiatives contributed to the prioryear.
increased operating profit. In 2007, Consumer segment operating Interest expense in 2006 increased slightly as compared to
profit increased 65.7% from 2006 due to the acquisition costs asso- 2005 due toahigher average debt balance, from $2.6 billion in
ciated with the Consumer Healthcarebusinessof Pfizer Inc. in 2006. 2005 to$3.1billion in 2006. This was partially offset byadecrease
As a percent to sales, 2007 operating profit increased to 15.7%. in interest rates.
IPR&D expenses of $320 million as well as expenses associated with
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 39Provision for Taxes on Income:The worldwide effective income tax The Company hedges the exposure to fluctuations in currency
rate was 23.5% in 2008, 20.4% in 2007 and 24.2% in 2006. The exchange rates, and the effect on certain assets and liabilities in
2008 tax rate increased as compared to 2007 due to increases in foreign currency, by entering into currency swap contracts. A 1%
taxable income in higher tax jurisdictions relative to taxable income change in the spread between U.S. and foreign interest rates on the
in lower jurisdictions. In addition, the 2007 tax rate benefited from a Company’s interest rate sensitive financial instruments would either
one-time gain of $267 million related to a business restructuring of increase or decrease the unrealized value of the Company’s swap
certain international subsidiaries, as well as increases in taxable contracts by approximately $97 million. In either scenario, at matu-
income in lower tax jurisdictions relative to taxable income in higher rity, the gain or loss on the swap contract would be offset by the gain
tax jurisdictions and lower international tax rates in certain countries or loss on the underlying transaction and therefore would have no
ascompared tothe prior year. impact on future cash flows.
The Company does not enter into financial instruments for
Liquidity and Capital Resources trading or speculative purposes. Further, the Company has a policy
of only entering into contracts with parties that have at least an “A”
LIQUIDITY & CASH FLOWS (or equivalent) credit rating. The counterparties to these contracts
Cash and cash equivalents were $10.8 billion at the end of 2008 as
are major financial institutions and there is no significant concentra-
compared with $7.8 billion at the end of 2007. The primary sources
tion of exposure with any one counterparty. Management believes
of cash that contributed to the $3.0 billion increase versus prior year
the risk of loss is remote.
were $15.0 billion of cash generated from operating activities and
The Company has access to substantial sources of funds at
$2.7billion net proceeds from long and short-term debt. The major
numerous banks worldwide. In September 2008, the Company
uses of cash were capital spending of $3.1 billion, acquisitions of
secured a new 364-day and 5-year Credit Facility. Total credit avail-
$1.2billion, dividends to shareholders of $5.0 billion and the
able to the Company approximates $7.7 billion, of which $6.3 billion
repurchase of common stock, net of proceeds from the exercise
expires September 24, 2009, and $1.4 billion expires September 25,
ofoptions, of $5.2 billion.
2013. Interest charged on borrowings under the credit line agree-
Cash flow from operations of $15.0 billion is the result of
ments is based on either bids provided by banks, the prime rate or
$12.9billion of net earnings and $3.5 billion of non-cash charges
London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR), plus applicable margins.
related to depreciation and amortization, stock based compensation,
Commitment fees under the agreement are not material.
and $0.2 billion of IPR&D offset by increased working capital of $0.8
Total borrowings at the end of 2008 and 2007 were $11.9 bil-
billion and a net use related to changes in assets and liabilities net of
lion and $9.5 billion, respectively.The increase in borrowings
effects from acquisitions of $0.8 billion.
between 2008 and 2007 was a result of financing general corporate
In 2008, the Companycontinued tohave access to liquidity
purposes and the continuation of the Common Stock repurchase
through the commercial paper market. For additional details on
program announced in 2007.In 2008, net cash (cash and current
borrowings, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
marketable securities, net of debt) was $1.0 billion compared to net
The Companyanticipates that operating cash flows, existing
debt of $0.2 billion in 2007. Total debt represented 21.8% of total
credit facilities and access to the commercial paper markets will
capital (shareholders’ equity and total debt) in 2008 and 18.0% of
provide sufficient resources to fund operating needs in 2009.
total capital in 2007. Shareholders’ equity per share at the end of
2008 was $15.35 compared with $15.25 at year-end 2007, an
16 increase of0.7%.
Johnson & Johnson continues tobe one of a fewindustrial
companies with a Triple A credit rating and to have access to credit
12
at commercially favorable terms. A summary of borrowings can be
found in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
8
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS ANDCOMMITMENTS
The Company has contractual obligations, primarily lease, debt
4
andunfunded retirement plans, with no other significant obliga-
tions. To satisfy these obligations, the Company will use cash from
0 operations. The following table summarizes the Company’s contrac-
06 07 08
tual obligations and their aggregate maturities as ofDecember 28,
2008 (see Notes 4, 6 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial
FINANCING AND MARKET RISK Statements for further details):
The Company uses financial instruments to manage the impact of for-
eign exchange rate changes on cash flows. Accordingly, the Company Unfunded
Operating Debt Retirement
entersintoforwardforeign exchange contracts to protect the value of
(Dollars in Millions) Leases Obligations(1) Plans Total
certain foreign currency assets and liabilities and to hedge future for- 2009 $171 221 56 448
eign currency products costs. Gains or losses on these contracts are
2010 145 22 58 225
offset bythe gains or losses on the underlying transactions. A 10%
2011 123 18 62 203
appreciation of theU.S. Dollar from the December 28, 2008 market
2012 107 620 66 793
rates would increase theunrealized value of the Company’s forward
2013 89 507 70 666
contracts by $226 million. Conversely, a 10% depreciation of the
After2013 93 6,953 436 7,482
U.S.Dollar from the December 28, 2008 market rates would decrease
theunrealized value of the Company’s forward contracts by $276 mil- Total $728 8,341 748 9,817
lion. In either scenario,the gain or losson the forwardcontract would
(1)Amounts do not include interest expense.
be offset by the gain or loss on the underlying transaction and, there-
fore, would have no impact on future earnings and cash flows. For tax matters, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
40 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTSHARE REPURCHASE AND DIVIDENDS Sales returns are generally estimated and recorded based
On July 9, 2007, the Company announced that its Board of Directors onhistorical sales and returns information. Products that exhibit
approved a stock repurchase program, authorizing the Company to unusual sales or return patterns due to dating, competition orother
buy back up to $10.0 billion of the Company’s Common Stock. The marketing matters are specifically investigated and analyzed as
repurchase program has no time limit and may be suspended for partof the accounting for sales return accruals.
periods or discontinued at any time. Any shares acquired will be Sales returns allowances represent a reserve for products that
available for general corporate purposes. The Company funds the may be returned due to expiration, destruction in the field, or in spe-
share repurchase program through a combination of available cash cific areas, product recall. The returns reserve is based on historical
and debt. As of December 28, 2008, the Company repurchased an return trends by product and by market as a percent to gross sales.
aggregate of 124.9 million shares of Johnson & Johnson common Promotional programs, such as product listing allowances
stock under the current repurchase program at a cost of $8.1 billion. andcooperative advertising arrangements, are recorded in the year
In addition, the Company has an annual program to repurchase incurred. Continuing promotional programs include coupons and
shares for use in employee stock and incentive plans. volume-based sales incentive programs. The redemption cost of
The Company increased its dividend in 2008 for the 46th con- consumer coupons is based on historical redemption experience
secutive year. Cash dividends paid were $1.795 per share in 2008, byproduct and value. Volume-based incentive programs are based
compared with dividends of $1.620 per share in 2007 and $1.455 on estimated sales volumes for the incentive period and arerecorded
per share in 2006. The dividends were distributed as follows: as products are sold. The Company also earns service revenue for
co-promotion of certain products and includes it in sales to cus-
2008 2007 2006
tomers. Promotional arrangements are evaluated to determine
First quarter $0.415 0.375 0.330
theappropriate amounts to be deferred.
Second quarter 0.460 0.415 0.375
In addition, the Company enters into collaboration arrange-
Third quarter 0.460 0.415 0.375
ments, which contain multiple revenue generating activities. The
Fourth quarter 0.460 0.415 0.375 revenue for these arrangements is recognized as each activity is per-
Total $1.795 1.620 1.455 formed or delivered, based on the relative fair value. Upfront fees
received as part of these arrangements are deferred and recognized
On January 5, 2009,the Board of Directors declared a regular as revenue earned over the obligation period.
cashdividend of $0.460 per share, payable on March 10, 2009, to Reasonably likely changes to assumptions used to calculate
shareholders of record as of February 24, 2009. The Company theaccruals for rebates, returns and promotions are not anticipated
expects to continue the practice of paying regular cash dividends. to have amaterial effect on the financial statements. The Company
currently discloses the impact of changes to assumptions in the
Other Information quarterly or annual filing in which thereis a material financial
statement impact.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Below are tables which show the progression of accrued
Management’sdiscussion and analysis of results of operations
rebates, returns, promotions, reserve for doubtful accounts and
andfinancial condition arebased on the Company’sconsolidated
reserve for cash discounts by segment of business for the fiscal
financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with
years ended December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007.
accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation
of these financial statements requires that management make esti-
CONSUMER SEGMENT
mates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for rev-
enues, expenses, assets, liabilities and other related disclosures. Balanceat Balanceat
Beginning Payments/ End
Actual results may or may not differ from these estimates. The
(Dollars in Millions) of Period Accruals Other of Period
Company believes that the understanding of certain key accounting
2008
policies and estimates are essential in achieving more insight into
Accrued rebates(1) $217 300 (386) 131
the Company’s operating results and financial condition. These key
Accrued returns 113 135 (133) 115
accounting policies include revenue recognition, income taxes, legal
Accrued promotions 297 2,369 (2,464) 202
and self-insurance contingencies, valuation of long-lived assets,
assumptions used todetermine the amounts recorded forpensions Subtotal $627 2,804 (2,983) 448
and other employee benefit plans and accounting for stock options. Reservefor doubtful accounts 71 41 (2) 110
Reserve for cash discounts 23 272 (273) 22
Revenue Recognition:The Company recognizes revenue from
Total $721 3,117 (3,258) 580
product sales when goods are shipped or delivered, and title and
riskof loss pass to the customer. Provisions for certain rebates, 2007
salesincentives, trade promotions, coupons, product returns and Accrued rebates(1) $164 492 (439) 217
discounts to customers are accounted for as reductions in sales Accrued returns 92 257 (236) 113
inthe same period the related sales are recorded.
Accrued promotions 211 2,249 (2,163) 297
Product discounts granted are based on the terms of arrange-
Subtotal $467 2,998 (2,838) 627
ments with direct, indirect and other market participants,as well
Reserve for doubtful accounts 42 17 12 71
asmarket conditions, including prices charged bycompetitors.
Reserve for cash discounts 15 278 (270) 23
Rebates, the largest being the Medicaid rebate provision, are esti-
mated based on contractual terms, historical experience, trend Total $524 3,293 (3,096) 721
analysis and projected market conditions in the various markets
(1)Includes reservefor customer rebates of $73 million at December 28, 2008 and
served. TheCompanyevaluates market conditions for products or $76million at December 30,2007, recorded as a contra asset.
groups ofproducts primarily through the analysis ofwholesaler and
other third-party sell-through and market research data, as well as
internally generated information.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 41PHARMACEUTICAL SEGMENT effecton the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or
financial position.
Balance at Balance at
In 2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation 48
Beginning Payments/ End
(Dollars in Millions) of Period Accruals Other of Period (FIN48), Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an interpre-
2008 tation of FASB Statement No. 109.This interpretation prescribes a
Accrued rebates(1) $1,249 3,331 (3,319) 1,261 recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial
Accrued returns 345 168 (23) 490 statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or
Accrued promotions 263 414 (570) 107 expected to be taken in a tax return. The interpretation also provides
guidance on derecognition, classification and other matters. See
Subtotal $1,857 3,913 (3,912) 1,858
Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
Reserve for doubtful accounts 26 24 (2) 48
information regarding income taxes.
Reserve for cash discounts 24 376 (377) 23
At December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, the
Total $1,907 4,313(2) (4,291) 1,929 cumulative amounts of undistributed international earnings were
2007 approximately $27.7 billion and $23.7 billion, respectively. The Com-
Accrued rebates(1) $1,233 3,175 (3,159) 1,249 pany intends to continue to reinvest its undistributed international
earnings to expand its international operations; therefore, noU.S.
Accrued returns 324 36 (15) 345
tax expense has been recorded with respect to the undistributed
Accrued promotions 205 523 (465) 263
portion not intended for repatriation.
Subtotal $1,762 3,734 (3,639) 1,857
Reserve for doubtful accounts 30 — (4) 26 Legal and Self Insurance Contingencies:The Company records
accruals for various contingencies including legal proceedings and
Reserve for cash discounts 29 531 (536) 24
product liability cases as these arise in the normal course of busi-
Total $1,821 4,265 (4,179) 1,907
ness. The accruals are based on management’s judgment as to
(1)Includes reserve for customer rebates of $344 million at December 28, 2008 and theprobability of losses and, where applicable, actuarially deter-
$321million at December 30, 2007, recorded as a contra asset.
mined estimates. Additionally, the Company records insurance
(2)Includes $115 million adjustment related to previously estimated accrued sales reserves.
receivable amounts from third-party insurers when recovery is
probable. As appropriate, reserves against these receivables are
MEDICAL DEVICES AND DIAGNOSTICS SEGMENT
recorded for estimated amounts that maynotbe collected from
Balance at Balance at third-partyinsurers.
Beginning Payments/ End
(Dollars in Millions) of Period Accruals Other of Period Long-Lived and Intangible Assets:The Companyassesses changes
2008 in economic conditions and makes assumptions regarding estimated
Accrued rebates(1) $336 1,947 (1,867) 416 future cash flows in evaluating the value of the Company’s property,
Accrued returns 190 99 (100) 189 plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets. As these
Accrued promotions 18 208 (179) 47 assumptions and estimates may change over time, itmay or may not
be necessary for the Company to record impairment charges.
Subtotal $544 2,254 (2,146) 652
Reserve for doubtful accounts 96 36 (23) 109 Employee Benefit Plans:The Companysponsorsvarious retirement
Reservefor cash discounts 24 257 (247) 34 and pension plans, including defined benefit, defined contribution
Total $664 2,547(2) (2,416) 795 and termination indemnityplans, which cover most employees
worldwide. These plans are based on assumptions for the discount
2007
rate, expected return on plan assets, expected salary increases and
Accrued rebates(1) $294 1,576 (1,534) 336
health care cost trend rates. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Finan-
Accrued returns 183 102 (95) 190 cial Statements for further details on these rates and the effect a
Accrued promotions 41 136 (159) 18 ratechangewould have on the Company’s results of operations.
Subtotal $518 1,814 (1,788) 544
Stock Options:During the fiscal first quarter of 2006, the Company
Reserve for doubtful accounts 88 25 (17) 96
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.
Reserve for cash discounts 18 213 (207) 24 123(R), Share Based Payment.The Company has applied the modi-
Total $624 2,052 (2,012) 664 fied retrospective transition method to implement SFAS No. 123(R).
Previously reported financial statements have been restated in
(1)Includes reserve for customer rebates of $304 million at December 28, 2008 and
$313million at December 30, 2007, recorded as a contra asset. accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R). See Note 10 for
(2)Includes $56 million adjustment related to previously estimated sales rebate reserve. further information regarding stockoptions.
The Company also earns service revenue for co-promotion of cer-
NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
tain products. For all yearspresented, service revenues were less
Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for recently
than 2% of total revenues and are included in salestocustomers.
adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting
Income Taxes:Income taxes are recorded based on amounts pronouncements not yet adopted asof December 28, 2008.
refundable or payable for the current year and include the results of
any difference between GAAP accounting andtax reporting,
recorded as deferred tax assetsor liabilities. The Company esti-
mates deferred tax assetsand liabilities based on current tax regula-
tions and rates. Changes in tax laws and rates may affectrecorded
deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future. Management
believes that changes in these estimates would not haveamaterial
42 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTECONOMIC AND MARKET FACTORS reporting period of one or more of these matters could have a
The Company is aware that its products are used in an environment significant impact on the Company’s results of operations and cash
where, for more than a decade, policymakers, consumers and busi- flows for that period.
nesses have expressed concerns about therising cost of health care. See Note 18to the Consolidated Financial Statementsfor
In response to these concerns, the Company has a long-standing further information regarding legal proceedings.
policy of pricing products responsibly. For the period 1998–2008, in
the United States, the weighted average compound annual growth COMMON STOCK MARKET PRICES
rate ofthe Company’s net price increases for health care products The Company’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock
(prescription and over-the-counter drugs, hospital andprofessional Exchange under the symbol JNJ. The composite market price ranges
products) was below the U.S. Consumer PriceIndex (CPI). for Johnson & Johnson common stock during 2008 and 2007 were:
Inflation rates continue to have an effect on worldwide econo-
mies and, consequently, on the way companies operate. Inthe face ________2_0__0_8________ ________2_0_0__7________
of increasing costs, the Company strives to maintain its profit mar- High Low High Low
First quarter $68.85 61.17 68.22 59.87
gins through cost reduction programs, productivity improvements
and periodic price increases. Second quarter 68.32 63.40 65.45 59.95
The Company is exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange Third quarter 72.76 63.10 65.75 59.72
rates. A 1% change in the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to Fourth quarter 69.86 52.06 68.75 63.55
allforeign currencies in which the Company had sales, income or Year-end close $58.56 67.38
expense in 2008 would have increased or decreased the translation
of foreign sales by $300 million and income by $50 million. Cautionary Factors That May Affect
The Company facesvarious worldwide health care changes that
Future Results
may continue to result inpricing pressures that include health care
cost containment and government legislation relating tosales, This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements. Forward-
promotions andreimbursement. looking statements do not relate strictly to historical orcurrent facts
Changes in the behavior and spending patterns of purchasers and anticipate results based on management’s plans that are sub-
of health care products and services, including delaying medical ject to uncertainty. Forward-looking statements may be identified by
procedures, rationing prescription medications, reducing the the use of words such as “plans,” “expects,” “will,” “anticipates,”
frequency of physician visits and foregoing health care insurance “estimates” and other words of similar meaning in conjunction with,
coverage, as a result of the current global economic downturn among other things, discussions of futureoperations, financial
willcontinue to impact the Company’s businesses. performance, the Company’s strategy for growth, product develop-
The Company also operates in an environment which has ment, regulatory approval, market position and expenditures.
become increasingly hostile tointellectual property rights. Generic Forward-looking statements arebased on current expectations
drug firms have filed Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDAs) of future events. The Company cannot guarantee that anyforward-
seeking tomarket generic forms of most of the Company’s key phar- looking statement will be accurate, although the Company believes
maceutical products, prior to expiration of the applicable patents that it has been reasonable in its expectations and assumptions.
covering those products. In the event the Company is not successful Investors should realize that if underlying assumptions prove inac-
in defending the patent claims challenged in ANDAfilings, the curate or that unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual
generic firms will then introduce generic versions of the product at results could vary materially from the Company’s expectations and
issue, resulting in the potential for substantial market share and projections. Investors are therefore cautioned not to place undue
revenue losses for that product. For further information see thedisc- relianceon anyforward-looking statements. The Company does not
ussion on “Litigation Against Filers of Abbreviated NewDrug Appli- undertake to update any forward-looking statements as a result of
cations” in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. new information or future events or developments.
Risks and uncertainties include general industry conditions
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS andcompetition; economic conditions, such as interest rate and
The Companyis involved in numerous product liability cases in the currency exchange rate fluctuations; technological advances,
United States, many of which concern alleged adverse reactions to newproducts and patents attained by competitors; challenges
drugs and medical devices. The damages claimed are substantial, inherent in new product development, including obtaining regula-
and while the Companyis confident of the adequacy of thewarnings tory approvals; challenges to patents; U.S. and foreign health care
andinstructions for use which accompany such products, it is not reforms and governmental laws and regulations; trends toward
feasible to predict the ultimate outcome of litigation. However, the health carecost containment; increased scrutinyof the health
Company believes that if any liability results from such cases, it careindustry by government agencies; product efficacy or safety
willbe substantially covered by existing amounts accrued in the concerns resulting in product recalls or regulatory action.
Company’s balance sheet underitsself-insurance program and by The Company’sreport on Form 10-K for the year ended
third-partyproduct liabilityinsurance. December 28, 2008 includes, in Exhibit 99, a discussion of
The Company is also involved in a number of patent, trademark additional factors that could cause actual results to differ from
and other lawsuits, as well as investigations, incidental toits busi- expectations. The Company notes these factors as permitted
ness. The ultimate legal and financial liability of the Company in bythePrivate Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
respect to all claims, lawsuits and proceedings referred to above
cannot be estimated with anycertainty. However, in the Company’s
opinion, based on its examination of these matters, its experience
todateand discussions with counsel, the ultimate outcome oflegal
proceedings, net of liabilities already accrued in the Company’s
balancesheet, is not expected tohave a material adverse effect on
the Company’sfinancial condition, although theresolution in any
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION 43Consolidated Balance Sheets Johnson & Johnson and Subsidiaries
AtDecember 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007 (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Data) (Note 1) 2008 2007
Assets
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents (Notes 1 and 14) $10,768 7,770
Marketable securities (Notes 1 and 14) 2,041 1,545
Accounts receivable trade, less allowances for doubtful accounts $268 (2007, $193) 9,719 9,444
Inventories (Notes 1 and 2) 5,052 5,110
Deferred taxes on income (Note 8) 3,430 2,609
Prepaid expenses and other receivables 3,367 3,467
Total current assets 34,377 29,945
Marketable securities, non-current (Notes 1 and 14) 4 2
Property, plant and equipment, net (Notes 1 and 3) 14,365 14,185
Intangible assets, net (Notes 1 and 7) 13,976 14,640
Goodwill, net (Notes 1 and 7) 13,719 14,123
Deferred taxes on income (Note 8) 5,841 4,889
Other assets (Note 5) 2,630 3,170
Total assets $84,912 80,954
Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity
Current liabilities
Loans and notes payable (Note 6) $ 3,732 2,463
Accounts payable 7,503 6,909
Accrued liabilities 5,531 6,412
Accrued rebates, returns and promotions 2,237 2,318
Accrued salaries, wages and commissions 1,432 1,512
Accrued taxes on income 417 223
Total current liabilities 20,852 19,837
Long-term debt (Note6) 8,120 7,074
Deferred taxes on income (Note 8) 1,432 1,493
Employee related obligations (Notes 5 and 13) 7,791 5,402
Other liabilities 4,206 3,829
Total liabilities 42,401 37,635
Shareholders’ equity
Preferred stock—without par value
(authorized and unissued 2,000,000 shares) — —
Common stock—par value $1.00 per share (Note 20)
(authorized 4,320,000,000 shares; issued 3,119,843,000 shares) 3,120 3,120
Accumulated other comprehensive income (Note 12) (4,955) (693)
Retained earnings 63,379 55,280
61,544 57,707
Less: common stock held in treasury, at cost (Note 20)
(350,665,000 shares and 279,620,000 shares) 19,033 14,388
Total shareholders’ equity 42,511 43,319
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $84,912 80,954
See Notes toConsolidated Financial Statements
44 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTConsolidated Statements of Earnings Johnson & Johnson and Subsidiaries
(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Figures) (Note 1) 2008 2007 2006
Sales to customers $63,747 61,095 53,324
Cost of products sold 18,511 17,751 15,057
Gross profit 45,236 43,344 38,267
Selling, marketing and administrative expenses 21,490 20,451 17,433
Research expense 7,577 7,680 7,125
Purchased in-process research and development (Note 17) 181 807 559
Restructuring (Note 22) — 745 —
Interest income (361) (452) (829)
Interest expense, net of portion capitalized (Note 3) 435 296 63
Other (income) expense, net (1,015) 534 (671)
28,307 30,061 23,680
Earnings before provision for taxes on income 16,929 13,283 14,587
Provision for taxes on income (Note 8) 3,980 2,707 3,534
Net earnings $12,949 10,576 11,053
Basic net earnings per share (Notes 1 and 19) $ 4.62 3.67 3.76
Diluted net earnings per share (Notes 1 and 19) $ 4.57 3.63 3.73
See Notes toConsolidated Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 45Consolidated Statements of Equity Johnson & Johnson and Subsidiaries
Accumulated
Other Treasury
Comprehensive Retained Comprehensive Common Stock Stock
(Dollars in Millions) (Note 1) Total Income Earnings Income Issued Amount Amount
Balance, January 1, 2006 $38,710 42,310 (755) 3,120 (5,965)
Net earnings 11,053 11,053 11,053
Cash dividends paid (4,267) (4,267)
Employee compensation
andstock option plans 1,858 181 1,677
Conversion of subordinated debentures 26 (10) 36
Repurchase of common stock (6,722) (6,722)
Other 23 23
Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
Currency translation adjustment 362 362 362
Unrealized losses on securities (9) (9) (9)
Employee benefit plans (1,710) (34) (1,710)
Losses on derivatives & hedges (6) (6) (6)
Reclassification adjustment (9)
Total comprehensive income 11,357
Balance, December 31, 2006 $39,318 49,290 (2,118) 3,120 (10,974)
Net earnings 10,576 10,576 10,576
Cash dividends paid (4,670) (4,670)
Employee compensation
and stock option plans 2,311 131 2,180
Conversion of subordinated debentures 9 (4) 13
Repurchase of common stock (5,607) (5,607)
Adoption of FIN 48 (19) (19)
Other (24) (24)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
Currency translation adjustment 786 786 786
Unrealized gains on securities 23 23 23
Employee benefit plans 670 670 670
Losses on derivatives & hedges (54) (54) (54)
Reclassification adjustment (5)
Total comprehensiveincome 11,996
Balance, December 30, 2007 $43,319 55,280 (693) 3,120 (14,388)
Net earnings 12,949 12,949 12,949
Cash dividends paid (5,024) (5,024)
Employee compensation
and stock option plans 2,180 175 2,005
Conversion of subordinated debentures — (1) 1
Repurchase of common stock (6,651) (6,651)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
Currency translation adjustment (2,499) (2,499) (2,499)
Unrealized losses on securities (59) (59) (59)
Employee benefit plans (1,870) (1,870) (1,870)
Gains on derivatives & hedges 166 166 166
Reclassification adjustment (27)
Total comprehensive income 8,660
Balance, December 28, 2008 $42,511 63,379 (4,955) 3,120 (19,033)
See Notes toConsolidated Financial Statements
46 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTConsolidated Statements of Cash Flows Johnson & Johnson and Subsidiaries
(Dollars in Millions) (Note 1) 2008 2007 2006
Cash flows from operating activities
Net earnings $12,949 10,576 11,053
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to cash flows from
operating activities:
Depreciation and amortization of property and intangibles 2,832 2,777 2,177
Stock based compensation 627 698 659
Purchased in-process research and development 181 807 559
Intangible asset write-down (NATRECOR®) — 678 —
Decrease/(increase) in deferred tax provision 22 (1,762) (1,168)
Accounts receivable allowances 86 22 (14)
Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from acquisitions:
Increase in accounts receivable (736) (416) (699)
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (101) 14 (210)
(Decrease)/increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities (272) 2,642 1,750
Increase in other current and non-current assets (1,600) (1,578) (269)
Increase in other current and non-current liabilities 984 564 410
Net cash flows from operating activities 14,972 15,022 14,248
Cash flows from investing activities
Additions to property, plant and equipment (3,066) (2,942) (2,666)
Proceeds from the disposal of assets 785 457 511
Acquisitions, net of cash acquired (Note 17) (1,214) (1,388) (18,023)
Purchases of investments (3,668) (9,659) (467)
Sales of investments 3,059 7,988 426
Other (primarily intangibles) (83) (368) (72)
Net cash used by investing activities (4,187) (5,912) (20,291)
Cash flowsfrom financing activities
Dividends toshareholders (5,024) (4,670) (4,267)
Repurchase of common stock (6,651) (5,607) (6,722)
Proceeds from short-term debt 8,430 19,626 6,385
Retirement of short-term debt (7,319) (21,691) (2,633)
Proceeds from long-term debt 1,638 5,100 6
Retirement of long-term debt (24) (18) (13)
Proceeds from the exercise of stock options/excess tax benefits 1,486 1,562 1,135
Net cash used by financing activities (7,464) (5,698) (6,109)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (323) 275 180
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 2,998 3,687 (11,972)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year (Note 1) 7,770 4,083 16,055
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year (Note 1) $10,768 7,770 4,083
Supplemental cash flowdata
Cash paid during the year for:
Interest $ 525 314 143
Income taxes 4,068 4,099 4,250
Supplemental schedule of noncash investing and financing activities
Treasury stock issued for employee compensation and
stock option plans, net of cash proceeds $ 593 738 622
Conversion of debt — 9 26
Acquisitions
Fair value of assets acquired $ 1,328 1,620 19,306
Fair value of liabilities assumed (114) (232) (1,283)
Net cash paid for acquisitions $ 1,214 1,388 18,023
See Notes toConsolidated Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 47Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies EITF Issue 07-03: Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Pay-
PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION ments for Goods or Services Received for Use in Future Research and
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Development Activities. This issue is effective for financial statements
Johnson & Johnson and subsidiaries (the “Company”). Inter- issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007 and was
company accounts and transactions are eliminated. adopted by the Company in the fiscal first quarter of 2008. This
issue requires nonrefundable advance payments for research and
DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY AND BUSINESS SEGMENTS development to be capitalized and recognized as an expense as
The Company has approximately 118,700 employees worldwide related goods are delivered or services are performed. The adoption
engaged in the research and development, manufacture and sale of of EITF 07-03 didnot have a significant impact on the Company’s
abroad range of products in the health care field. The Company results of operations, cash flows or financial position.
conducts business in virtually all countries of the world and itspri-
mary focus is on products related to human health andwell-being. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS,
The Company is organized into three business segments: NOT ADOPTED AS OF DECEMBER 28, 2008
Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices and Diagnostics. In December 2007, FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combina-
The Consumer segment manufactures and markets a broad range tions,and No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
ofproducts used in the baby care, skin care, oralcare, wound care Statements.These statements aim to improve, simplify and con-
andwomen’s health care fields, as well as nutritional and over-the- vergeinternationally the accounting for business combinations and
counter pharmaceutical products. These products are marketed to the reporting of noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial
the general public and sold both to distributors and directly to inde- statements. These statements are effective for fiscal years begin-
pendent and chain retail outlets throughout the world. The Pharma- ning after December 15, 2008. SFAS No. 141(R) will have a signifi-
ceutical segment includes products in the following therapeutic cant impact on the manner in which the Companyaccounts for
areas: anti-infective, antipsychotic, cardiovascular, contraceptive, future acquisitions beginning in the fiscal year 2009. Significant
dermatology, gastrointestinal, hematology, immunology, neurology, changes include the capitalization of in-process research and devel-
oncology,pain management, urology and virology. These products opment (IPR&D), expensing of acquisition related restructuring
aredistributed directly toretailers, wholesalers andhealth care pro- actions and transaction related costs and the recognition of contin-
fessionals for prescription use. The Medical Devices and Diagnos- gent purchase price consideration at fair value at the acquisition
tics segment includes a broad rangeofproducts used principally in date. In addition, changes in accounting for deferred tax asset
the professional fields byphysicians, nurses, therapists, hospitals, valuation allowances and acquired income tax uncertainties after
diagnostic laboratories and clinics. These products include Cordis’ the measurement period will be recognized in earnings rather than
circulatory disease management products; DePuy’s orthopaedic as an adjustment tothe cost of acquisition. This accounting treat-
joint reconstruction, spinal care and sports medicine products; ment for taxes is applicable to acquisitions thatoccurred both prior
Ethicon’s surgical care and women’s health products; Ethicon Endo- and subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 141(R). The Company
Surgery’s minimally invasive surgical products; LifeScan’s blood believes that the adoption of SFAS No.141(R) and SFAS No. 160 will
glucose monitoring and insulin delivery products; Ortho-Clinical not have a material effect on its results of operations, cash flows or
Diagnostics’ professional diagnostic products andVistakon’s financial position.
disposable contact lenses. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS Statement No. 161,
Disclosures About Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,an
NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS amendment of FASB Statement No. 133, to enhance the disclosure
RECENTLY ADOPTED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS regarding the Company’s derivative and hedging activities, to
In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board improvethe transparency of financial reporting. This statement is
(FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The
No.157, Fair Value Measurements. This statement defines fair value, adoption of SFAS No. 161 will have no impact on the Company’s
establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally results of operations, cash flows or financial position.
accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about fair EITF Issue 07-01: Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements
value measurements. The statement was effective in the fiscal first Related to the Development and Commercialization of Intellectual
quarter of 2008 except for non-financial assets and liabilities recog- Property.This issue is effectivefor financial statements issued
nized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis, for which the forfiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. This issue
effective date is for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. addresses the income statement classification of payments made
The Company adopted SFAS No. 157 in the fiscal first quarter of between parties in a collaborative arrangement. The adoption of
2008, the impact of which is discussed in Note 23. EITF07-01 is not expected to have a significant impact on the
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, Fair Value Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position.
Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities,which permits an EITF Issue 08-07: Accounting for Defensive Intangible Assets.
entity to measure certain financial assets and financial liabilities at This issue applies to acquired intangible assets in situations in
fair value. SFAS No. 159 was effective for fiscal year 2008 and the which an entity does not intend to actively use the asset, but intends
Companyadopted it in the fiscal first quarter of 2008. The adoption tohold the asset toprevent others from obtaining access to the
of SFAS No. 159 did not have a material effect on the Company’s asset, except for intangible assets that are used in research and
results of operations, cash flows or financial position. development activities. This issue is effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2008. The adoption of EITF 08-07 is
not expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s results
of operations, cash flows or financial position.
48 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTCASH EQUIVALENTS The returns reserve is based on historical return trends by product
The Company considers securities with maturities of three months and by market as a percent togross sales.
or less, when purchased, to be cash equivalents. Promotional programs, such as product listing allowances and
cooperative advertising arrangements, are recorded in the year
INVESTMENTS incurred. Continuing promotional programs include coupons and
Short-term marketable securities are carried at cost, which approxi- volume-based sales incentive programs. The redemption cost of
mates fair value. Investments classified as available-for-sale are consumer coupons is based on historical redemption experience
carried at estimated fair value with unrealized gains and losses byproduct and value. Volume-based incentive programs are based
recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive on the estimated sales volumes for the incentive period and are
income. Long-term debt securities that the Company has the ability recorded as products are sold. The Company also earns service
and intent to hold until maturity are carried at amortized cost, which revenue for co-promotion of certain products and includes it in
also approximates fair value. Management determines the appropri- salestocustomers. Promotional arrangements are evaluated to
ate classification of its investment in debt and equity securities at determine the appropriate amounts to be deferred.
the time of purchase and re-evaluates such determination at each In addition, the Company enters into collaboration arrange-
balance sheet date. TheCompany periodically reviews its invest- ments, which contain multiple revenue generating activities. The
ments in equity securities for impairment and adjusts these invest- revenue for these arrangements is recognized as each activity is
ments to their fairvalue when a decline in market value is deemed performed or delivered, based on the relative fair value. Upfront
tobe other thantemporary. feesreceived as part of these arrangements are deferred and
recognized as revenue earned over the obligation period.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND DEPRECIATION
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. The Company SHIPPING AND HANDLING
utilizes the straight-line method of depreciation overthe estimated Shipping and handling costs incurred were $1,017 million, $934 mil-
useful lives of the assets: lion and $693 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and are
included in selling, marketing and administrative expense. The
Building and building equipment 20-40years
amount of revenue received for shipping and handling is less than
Land and leasehold improvements 10-20years
0.5% of sales tocustomers for all periods presented.
Machinery and equipment 2-13years
The Companycapitalizes certain computer software and develop- INVENTORIES
ment costs, included in machinery and equipment, when incurred Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market determined by
inconnection with developing orobtaining computer software for the first-in, first-out method.
internal use. Capitalized softwarecosts are amortized over the
estimated useful lives ofthe software, which generally range from INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL
3to 5 years. SFAS No. 142 requires thatgoodwill and non-amortizable intangible
The Companyreviewslong-lived assets to assess recover- assets be assessed annually for impairment. The Company com-
abilityusing undiscounted cash flows. When necessary, charges pleted the annual impairment test for 2008 in the fiscal fourth quar-
forimpairments of long-lived assets are recorded for the amount ter and no impairment was determined. Future impairment tests will
bywhich the present value of future cash flows is less than the beperformed annually in the fiscal fourth quarter, or sooner if a
carrying value of these assets. triggering event occurs.
Intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be
amortized over their useful lives, and are reviewed for impairment
REVENUE RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes revenue from product sales when the when warranted by economic conditions. See Note 7 for further
goods areshipped or delivered and title and riskof loss pass to the details on Intangible Assets.
customer. Provisions for certain rebates, sales incentives, trade pro-
motions, coupons, product returns and discounts to customers are FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
accounted for as reductions in sales inthe same period the related The Companyfollows the provisions of SFAS No. 133, Accounting for
sales arerecorded. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,as amended. SFAS No.
Product discounts granted are based on the terms of arrange- 133 requires that all derivative instruments be recorded on the bal-
ments with direct, indirect and other market participants, as well ance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are
asmarket conditions, including prices charged by competitors. recorded each period in current earnings or other comprehensive
Rebates, the largest being the Medicaid rebate provision, are esti- income, depending on whether thederivative is designated as part
mated based on contractual terms, historical experience, trend of a hedgetransaction, and ifso,the type of hedgetransaction.
analysis and projected market conditions in the various markets The Company uses forward exchange contracts to manage
served. TheCompany evaluates market conditions for products or itsexposure to the variability of cash flows, primarily related to the
groups ofproducts primarily through the analysis of wholesaler and foreign exchange rate changes of future intercompany product and
other third-party sell-through and market research data, as well as third-party purchases of raw materials denominated in foreign cur-
internally generated information. rency. The Company also uses currency swaps to manage currency
Sales returns are generally estimated and recorded based on risk primarily related to borrowings. Both of these types of deriva-
historical sales and returns information. Products that exhibit tives are designated as cash flow hedges. Additionally, the Company
unusual sales or return patterns due to dating, competition or other uses forward exchange contracts tooffset its exposure to certain
marketing mattersarespecifically investigated and analyzed as part foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities. These forward
of the accounting for sales return accruals. Sales returns allowances exchange contracts are not designated as hedges and therefore,
represent a reserve for products that may bereturned due to expi- changes in the fair values ofthese derivatives are recognized
ration, destruction in the field, or in specific areas, product recall. currently in earnings, thereby offsetting thecurrent earnings effect
of the related foreign currency assets andliabilities.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49The designation as a cash flow hedge is made at the entrance INCOME TAXES
date into the derivative contract. At inception, all derivatives are The Company intends to continue to reinvest its undistributed
expected to be highly effective. Changes in the fair value of a deriva- international earnings to expand its international operations; there-
tive that is designated as a cash flow hedgeand is highly effective fore, no U.S. tax expense has been recorded with respect to the
are recorded in accumulated othercomprehensive income until the undistributed portion not intended for repatriation. At December 28,
underlying transaction affects earnings, and are then reclassified to 2008 and December 30, 2007, the cumulative amount of undistrib-
earnings in the same account as the hedged transaction. The fair uted international earnings were approximately $27.7 billion and
value of a derivative instrument (i.e., forward foreign exchange con- $23.7 billion, respectively.
tract, currency swap) is the aggregation, by currency, of all future Deferred income taxes are recognized for tax consequences
cash flows discounted to its present value at prevailing market oftemporary differences by applying enacted statutory taxrates,
interest rates and subsequently converted to the U.S. Dollar at the applicable to future years, to differences between thefinancial
current spot foreign exchange rate. reporting and the tax basis of existing assets andliabilities.
On an ongoing basis, the Company assesses whether each
derivative continues to be highly effective in offsetting changes in NET EARNINGS PER SHARE
the cash flows of hedged items. If, and when, a derivative isno longer Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net earnings avail-
expected to be highly effective, hedge accounting isdiscontinued. able to common shareholders by the weighted average number of
Hedge ineffectiveness, if any, is included in current period earnings, common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per
and was insignificant in 2008, 2007 and 2006. share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities
The Company documents all relationships between hedged were exercised or converted into common stock using the treasury
items and derivatives. The overall risk management strategy stock method.
includes reasons for undertaking hedge transactions and entering
into derivatives. The objectives of this strategy are: (1)minimize USE OF ESTIMATES
foreign currency exposure’s impact on the Company’s financial The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity
performance; (2) protect the Company’s cash flow from adverse with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires
movements in foreign exchange rates;(3) ensure the appropriate- management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
nessof financial instruments; and (4)manage the enterprise risk amounts reported. Estimates are used when accounting for sales
associated with financialinstitutions. discounts, rebates, allowances and incentives, product liabilities,
income taxes, depreciation, amortization, employee benefits,
PRODUCT LIABILITY contingencies and intangible asset and liability valuations. For
Accruals for product liability claims are recorded, on an undis- instance, in determining annual pension and post-employment ben-
counted basis, when it is probable that a liabilityhas been incurred efit costs, the Company estimates the rate of return on plan assets,
and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated based and the cost of futurehealth carebenefits. Actual results may or
on existing information. The accruals are adjusted periodically as may not differ from those estimates.
additional information becomes available. As a result of cost and
availability factors, effective November 1, 2005, the Company ANNUAL CLOSING DATE
ceased purchasing third-party product liability insurance. Based The Company follows the concept of a fiscal year, which ends on
ontheavailability of prior coverage, receivables for insurance theSundaynearest tothe end of the month of December.Normally
recoveries related to product liability claims are recorded on each fiscal year consists of 52 weeks, but every five or six years, as
anundiscounted basis, when it is probable that a recovery will will be the case in 2009, the fiscal year consists of 53 weeks.
berealized.
RECLASSIFICATION
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to
Research and development expenses are expensed as incurred. current year presentation.
Upfront and milestone payments made to third-parties in connec-
tion with research and development collaborations are expensed as
2. Inventories
incurred up to the point of regulatory approval. Payments made to
At the end of 2008 and 2007, inventories were comprised of:
third-parties subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized
andamortized over the remaining useful life of the related product.
(Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007
Amounts capitalized for suchpayments are included in other Raw materials and supplies $ 839 905
intangibles, net of accumulated amortization.
Goods in process 1,372 1,384
Finished goods 2,841 2,821
ADVERTISING
$5,052 5,110
Costs associated with advertising are expensed in the year incurred
and areincluded in the selling, marketing and administrative
expenses. Advertising expenses worldwide, which are comprised of
television, radio, print media and Internet advertising, were $2.9 bil-
lion in 2008, $2.7 billion in 2007 and $1.9 billion in 2006.
50 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORT3. Property, Plant and Equipment 6. Borrowings
At the end of 2008 and 2007, property, plant and equipment at cost The components of long-term debt are as follows:
and accumulated depreciation were:
Effective Effective
(Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 (Dollars in Millions) 2008 Rate % 2007 Rate %
Land and land improvements $ 886 756 3% Zero Coupon
Convertible Subordinated
Buildings and building equipment 7,720 7,913
Debentures due 2020 $ 183 3.00% 178 3.00
Machinery and equipment 15,234 14,554
4.95% Debentures due 2033 500 4.95 500 4.95
Construction in progress 3,552 3,243
3.80% Debentures due 2013 500 3.82 500 3.82
27,392 26,466
6.95% Notes due 2029 294 7.14 294 7.14
Less accumulated depreciation 13,027 12,281
6.73% Debentures due 2023 250 6.73 250 6.73
$14,365 14,185
6.625% Notes due 2009 199 6.80 199 6.80
5.55% Debentures due 2017 1,000 5.55 1,000 5.55
The Company capitalizes interest expense as part of the cost of con-
5.95% Notes due 2037 995 5.99 995 5.99
struction of facilities and equipment. Interest expense capitalized
5.50% Notes due 2024
in2008, 2007 and 2006 was $147 million, $130 million and
(500 GBP 1.4759)(2)/(500 GBP 1.9944)(3) 731(2)5.71 989(3)5.71
$118million, respectively.
4.75% Notes due 2019
Depreciation expense, including the amortization of capitalized
(1B Euro 1.4000)(2)/(1B Euro 1.4573)(3) 1,390(2)5.35 1,447(3)5.35
interest in 2008, 2007 and 2006, was $2.0 billion, $1.9 billion and
5.15% Debentures due 2012 599 5.18 599 5.18
$1.6 billion, respectively.
5.86% Debentures due 2038 700 5.86
Upon retirement or other disposal of property, plant and equip-
5.15% Debentures due 2018 898 5.15
ment, the costs and related amounts of accumulated depreciation or
amortization are eliminated from the asset and accumulated depre- Other (Includes Industrial
Revenue Bonds) 102 — 132 —
ciation accounts, respectively. The difference, if any, between the net
asset value and the proceeds are recorded inearnings. 8,341(4)5.46(1) 7,083(4)5.47(1)
Less current portion 221 9 —
$8,120 7,074
4. Rental Expense and Lease Commitments
Rentals of space, vehicles, manufacturing equipment and office and (1)Weighted average effective rate.
(2)Translation rate at December 28, 2008.
data processing equipment under operating leases were approxi-
(3)Translation rate at December 30, 2007.
mately $309 million in 2008, $302million in 2007 and $285 million (4)The excess of the fair value over the carrying value of debt was $1.4 billion in 2008 and
in 2006. $0.3 billion in 2007.
The approximate minimum rental payments required under
The Companyhas accesstosubstantial sources of funds at
operating leases that haveinitial or remaining non-cancelable lease
numerous banks worldwide. In September 2008, the Company
terms in excess of one year at December 28, 2008 are:
secured a new 364-day and 5-year Credit Facility. Total credit avail-
(Dollars in Millions) After able to the Company approximates $7.7 billion of which $6.3 billion
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2013 Total expires September 24, 2009, and $1.4 billion expires September 25,
$171 145 123 107 89 93 728 2013. Interest charged on borrowings under the credit line agree-
ments is based on either bids provided by banks, the prime rate or
Commitments under capital leases arenot significant.
London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR), plus applicable margins.
Commitment fees under the agreements are not material.
5. Employee Related Obligations The Company filed a shelf registration with the Securities and
Exchange Commission that became effective March 11, 2008
At the end of 2008 and 2007, employee related obligations were:
which enables the Company to issue an unlimited aggregate
(Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 principal amount in debt securities and warrants to purchase debt
Pension benefits $4,382 2,014 securities. The Company issued bonds in June 2008 for a total of
Postretirement benefits 2,217 2,134 $1.6 billion for general corporate purposes.
Postemployment benefits 870 1,119 On July 28, 2000, ALZA Corporation, a subsidiary of the
Deferred compensation 772 740 Company, completed a private offering of the 3%Zero Coupon
Convertible Subordinated Debentures, which were issued at a
Total employee obligations 8,241 6,007
priceof $551.26 per $1,000 principal amount at maturity. Under
Less current benefits payable 450 605
theterms of the 3% Debentures, holders are entitled to convert
Employee related obligations — long-term $7,791 5,402
theirdebentures into approximately 15.0 million shares of
Johnson&Johnson stock at a priceof $40.102per share. Approxi-
Prepaid employee related obligations of $136 million and $481mil- mately 11.4 million shares have been issued as of December 28,
lion for 2008 and 2007,respectively,areincluded in other assets on 2008, due to voluntary conversions by note holders. At the option
the consolidated balance sheet. ofthe holder,the 3% Debentures may be repurchased by the
Company on July 28, 2013, at a purchase price equal to the issue
priceplus accreted original issue discount to such purchase date.
The Company,at its option, mayalso redeem anyor all of the 3%
Debentures after July 28, 2003 at the issue price plus accreted
original issue discount.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 51Throughout 2008 the Company continued to have access to The weighted average amortization periods for patents and
liquidity through the commercial paper market. Short-term borrow- trademarks and other intangible assets are 16 years and 28 years,
ings and the current portion of long-term debt amounted to approxi- respectively. The amortization expense of amortizable assets for
mately $3.7 billion at the end of 2008, ofwhich $3.1 billion was thefiscalyears ended December 28, 2008, December 30, 2007 and
raised under the Commercial Paper Program. The remainder repre- December 31, 2006 was $788 million, $844 million and $594 mil-
sents principally local borrowing byinternational subsidiaries. lion before tax, respectively. Certain patents and intangible assets
Aggregate maturities of long-term obligations commencing in were written down to fair value during fiscal years 2008, 2007 and
2008 are: 2006, with the resulting charge included in amortization expense.
(Dollars in Millions) After The estimated amortization expense for the five succeeding years
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2013
approximates $814 million before tax, per year. Substantially all of
$221 22 18 620 507 6,953
the amortization expense is included in cost of products sold.
7. Intangible Assets and Goodwill
8. Income Taxes
At the end of 2008 and 2007, the gross and net amounts of
The provision for taxes on income consists of:
intangible assets and goodwill were:
(Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 2006
(Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007
Currently payable:
Trademarks (non-amortizable)—gross $ 5,879 6,457
U.S. taxes $2,334 2,990 3,625
Less accumulated amortization 145 144
International taxes 1,624 1,479 1,077
Trademarks (non-amortizable)—net $ 5,734 6,313
3,958 4,469 4,702
Patents and trademarks—gross $ 5,119 4,597
Deferred:
Less accumulated amortization 1,820 1,615 U.S. taxes 126 (722) (726)
Patentsand trademarks—net $ 3,299 2,982 International taxes (104) (1,040) (442)
Other intangibles—gross $ 7,376 7,399 22 (1,762) (1,168)
Less accumulated amortization 2,433 2,054 $3,980 2,707 3,534
Other intangibles—net $ 4,943 5,345
Acomparison of income tax expense at the U.S. statutory rate of
Subtotal intangible assets—gross $18,374 18,453
35% in 2008, 2007 and 2006, to the Company’s effective tax rate
Less accumulated amortization 4,398 3,813
isas follows:
Subtotal intangible assets—net $13,976 14,640
(Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 2006
Goodwill—gross $14,441 14,866
U.S. $ 6,579 5,237 8,110
Less accumulated amortization 722 743
International 10,350 8,046 6,477
Goodwill—net $13,719 14,123
Earnings before taxes on income: $16,929 13,283 14,587
Total intangible assets and goodwill—gross $32,815 33,319
Tax rates:
Less accumulated amortization 5,120 4,556
U.S. statutory rate 35.0% 35.0 35.0
Total intangible assets and goodwill—net $27,695 28,763
PuertoRicoand Ireland operations (6.8) (8.8) (7.5)
Research and orphan drug tax credits (0.6) (0.8) (0.7)
Goodwill as of December 28, 2008 and December 30,2007, as
U.S. state and local 1.6 2.1 1.6
allocated by segment of business is as follows:
International subsidiaries excluding Ireland (5.6) (7.3) (3.5)
Med Dev U.S. manufacturing deduction (0.4) (0.3) (0.2)
(Dollars in Millions) Consumer Pharm and Diag Total
In process research and
Goodwill at December 31, 2006 $7,866 902 4,572 13,340
development (IPR&D) 0.4 2.1 0.6
Acquisitions 3 — 449 452 U.S. Tax international income (0.5) (1.9) (0.7)
Translation/other 256 62 13 331 All other 0.4 0.3 (0.4)
Goodwill at December 30, 2007 $8,125 964 5,034 14,123 Effective tax rate 23.5% 20.4 24.2
Acquisitions 191 — 286 477
Translation/other (842) (1) (38) (881) The Companyhas subsidiaries manufacturing in Ireland under an
Goodwill at December 28, 2008 $7,474 963 5,282 13,719 incentive tax rate. In addition, the Company has subsidiaries operat-
ing in Puerto Rico under various tax incentive grants. The increase
inthe 2008 tax rate was mainly attributed to increases in taxable
income in higher tax jurisdictions relative to taxable income in lower
jurisdictions. The decrease in the 2007tax rate was mainly attrib-
uted to a business restructuring ofcertain international subsidiaries,
resulting in a one-time benefit of $267 million, which reduced the
effective tax rate by 2%.
52 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTTemporary differences and carry forwards for 2008 and 2007 9. International Currency Translation
are as follows: For translation of its subsidiaries operating in non-U.S. Dollar cur-
rencies, the Company has determined that the local currencies of
2008 2007
its international subsidiaries are the functional currencies except
_______D_e_fe_r_r_e_d_ T_a_x_____ ______D_e_fe_r_r_e_d_ T_a_x_____
those in highly inflationary economies, which are defined as those
(Dollars in Millions) Asset Liability Asset Liability
Employee related obligations $ 2,615 1,727 which have had compound cumulative rates of inflation of 100%
ormore during the past three years, or where a substantial portion
Stock based compensation 1,296 1,173
of its cash flows are not in the local currency.
Depreciation (523) (463)
In consolidating international subsidiaries, balance sheet cur-
Non-deductible intangibles (1,791) (1,554)
rency effects are recorded as a component of accumulated other
International R&D capitalized
comprehensive income. This equity account includes the results
for tax 1,914 1,773
oftranslating all balance sheet assets and liabilities at current
Reserves & liabilities 688 1,155
exchange rates, except for those located in highly inflationary
Income reported for
economies. The translation of balance sheet accounts for highly
tax purposes 629 487
inflationary economies are reflected in the operating results.
Miscellaneous international 1,357 (251) 1,177 (127)
An analysis of the changes during 2008, 2007 and 2006 for
Capitalized intangibles 74 89 foreign currency translation adjustments is included in Note 12.
Miscellaneous U.S. 1,754 542 Net currency transaction and translation gains and losses
Total deferred income taxes $10,327 (2,565) 8,123 (2,144) included in other (income) expense were losses of $31 million,
$23million and $18 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
The difference between the net deferred tax on income per the
balance sheet and the net deferred tax above is included in taxes
10. Common Stock,Stock Option Plans and
onincome on the balance sheet. The 2008 deferred tax Miscella-
StockCompensation Agreements
neous U.S. includes current year tax receivables.
STOCK OPTIONS
The Company adopted FIN No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in
AtDecember 28, 2008, the Company had 14 stock-based compen-
Income Taxeseffective January 1, 2007. The Company had $1.7 billion
sation plans. The shares outstanding are for contracts under the
of gross unrecognized tax benefits, as of December 30, 2007. The
Company’s1995 and 2000 Stock Option Plans, the 2005 Long-
Company classifies liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits and
Term IncentivePlan, the 1997Non-Employee Director’s Plan and
related interest and penalties as long-term liabilities. Interest expense
theCentocor, Innovasive Devices, ALZA, Inverness, and Scios Stock
and penalties related tounrecognized tax benefits are classified as
Option Plans. During 2008, no options or restricted shares were
income tax expense. During the fiscal year ended December 28,
granted under any of these plans except under the 2005 Long-Term
2008, the Companyrecognized $106 million of interest expense with
Incentive Plan.
an after-tax impact of $69 million. For the year ended December 30,
The compensation cost recorded under SFAS No.123(R) that
2007, the Company recognized $58 million of interest expense and
has been charged against income for these plans was $627 million
$42 million of interest income with an after-tax impact of $10 million
for 2008, $698 million for 2007 and $659 million for 2006. The total
expense. The total amount of accrued interest was $227 million and
income tax benefit recognized in the income statement for share-
$187 million in2008 and 2007, respectively.
based compensation costs was $210 million for 2008, $238 million
The following table summarizes the activity related to
for 2007 and $228 million for 2006. Share-based compensation
unrecognized tax benefits:
costs capitalized as part of inventory were insignificant in all periods.
(Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 Stock options expire 10 years from the date of grant and vest
Beginning of year $1,653 1,262 over service periods that range from six months to five years. All
Increases related to current year tax positions 545 487 options are granted at the average of the high and low prices of the
Increases related to prior period tax positions 87 77 Company’s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the
date of grant. Under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Com-
Decreases related to prior period tax positions (142) (117)
pany may issue up to 260 million shares of common stock. Shares
Settlements (137) (14)
available for future grants under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan
Lapse of statute of limitations (28) (42)
were167.6 million at the end of 2008.
End of year $1,978 1,653
All of the unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $2.0 billion
atDecember 28, 2008, if recognized, would affect the Company’s
annual effective tax rate. The Company conducts business and
filestax returns in numerous countries and currently has tax audits
in progresswith a number of tax authorities. The U.S. Internal
Revenue Service (IRS) has completed its audit for the tax years
through 2002. In other major jurisdictions where the Company
conducts business, the years remain open generally back to the
year 2002 with some jurisdictions remaining open as far back as
1995. The Company does not expect that the total amount of
unrecognized tax benefits will significantly change over the next
twelve months. The Company does not expect a significant pay-
ment within the next twelve months, and is not able to provide
areasonably reliable estimateof the timing of anyfuture tax
payments relating to uncertain tax positions.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53The Company settles employee stock option exercises with The following table summarizes stock options outstanding and
treasury shares. Treasury shares are replenished throughout the exercisable at December 28, 2008:
year for the number of shares used to settle employee stock
optionexercises.
(_S_h_a_r_es_ _in_ T__h_ou_s_a_n_d_s_)____________________O_u_t_st_a_n_d_in_g__________ _____E_x_e_r_c_is_a_b_le_____
Average Average
The fair value of each option award was estimated on the date
Exercise Average Exercise Exercise
ofgrant using the Black-Scholes option valuation model that uses Price Range Options Life(1) Price Options Price
the assumptions noted in the following table. Expected volatility $ 3.62-$29.07 325 1.5 $18.00 325 $18.00
represents a blended rate of 4-year daily historical average volatility $31.27-$40.08 349 0.9 35.22 349 35.22
rate, and a 5-week average implied volatility rate based on at-the- $40.98-$50.08 11,263 1.1 49.61 11,263 49.61
money traded Johnson & Johnson options witha life of 2 years. His-
$50.50-$52.11 19,600 1.8 50.70 19,600 50.70
torical data is used to determine the expected life of the option. The
$52.20-$53.77 23,759 4.1 52.22 23,759 52.22
risk-free rate was based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at
$53.93-$54.89 27,992 5.0 53.93 27,992 53.93
the time of grant.
$55.01-$58.25 27,803 3.1 57.30 27,775 57.30
The average fair value of options granted was $7.66, $11.67 and
$58.34-$66.08 69,136 8.0 61.90 815 62.76
$12.22 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The fair value was
estimated based on the weighted average assumptions of: $66.18-$68.37 35,272 6.1 66.20 33,084 66.19
215,499 5.3 $58.14 144,962 $56.25
2008 2007 2006
Risk-free rate 2.97% 4.78% 4.60% (1)Average contractual life remaining in years.
Expected volatility 15.0% 14.7% 19.6%
Stock options exercisable at December 30, 2007 and December 31,
Expected life 6.0 yrs 6.0 yrs 6.0 yrs
2006 were 137,310 at an average price of $52.33 and an average
Dividend yield 2.90% 2.50% 2.50% lifeof 5.6 years and 131,077 at an average price of $50.23 and an
average life of 5.9 years, respectively.
Asummary of option activity under the Plan as of December 28,
2008, December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006 and changes
RESTRICTED SHARE UNITS
during the years ending on those dates is presented below:
The Company grants restricted share units with a vesting period
ofthree years. The Company settles employee stock issuance with
Aggregate
Weighted Intrinsic treasury shares. Treasury shares are replenished throughout the
Outstanding Average Value year for the number of shares used for employee stock issuances.
(Shares in Thousands) Shares Exercise Price (Dollars in Millions)
Asummary of shareactivityunder the Plan as of
Shares at January 1, 2006 248,542 $53.05 $2,031
December 28, 2008:
Options granted 28,962 58.38
Options exercised (26,152) 42.80 Outstanding
(Shares in Thousands) Shares
Options canceled/forfeited (8,425) 59.33
Shares at January 1, 2006 111
Shares at December 31, 2006 242,927 54.57 $2,788
Shares granted 7,320
Options granted 26,789 65.61 Shares issued (33)
Options exercised (33,224) 45.92 Shares canceled/forfeited (513)
Options canceled/forfeited (7,863) 63.00 Shares at December 31, 2006 6,885
Shares at December 30, 2007 228,629 56.83 $2,411 Shares granted 8,029
Options granted 22,428 61.80 Shares issued (33)
Options exercised (30,033) 50.27 Shares canceled/forfeited (1,220)
Options canceled/forfeited (5,525) 61.90 Shares at December 30, 2007 13,661
Shares at December 28, 2008 215,499 $58.14 $ 597 Shares granted 10,105
Shares issued (40)
The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $506 million, Shares canceled/forfeited (1,468)
$625million and $542 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respec- Shares at December 28, 2008 22,258
tively. The total unrecognized compensation cost was $632 million
as of December 28, 2008, $652 million as of December 30, 2007 The average fair value of the restricted share units granted was
and $649 million as of December 31, 2006. The weighted average $56.70, $60.86 and $54.17 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively,
period for this cost to be recognized was 1.06 years, 1.01 years and using the fair market value at the date of grant. The fair value of
0.99 yearsfor 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. restricted share units was discounted for dividends, which are not
paid on the restricted share units during the vesting period. The fair
value of restricted shareunits settled was $2.5 million, $1.8 million
and $1.7million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
54 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORT11. Segments of Business(1)and Geographic Areas
__________S_a_l_e_s _to_ _C_u_s_to_m__e_rs_(2_)__________
(Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 2006
Consumer—
United States $ 6,937 6,408 4,573
International 9,117 8,085 5,201
Total 16,054 14,493 9,774
Pharmaceutical—
United States 14,831 15,603 15,092
International 9,736 9,263 8,175
Total 24,567 24,866 23,267
Medical Devices and Diagnostics—
United States 10,541 10,433 10,110
International 12,585 11,303 10,173
Total 23,126 21,736 20,283
Worldwide total $63,747 61,095 53,324
____________O_p_e_r_a_t_in_g_ P_r_o_f_it____________ ___________I_d_e_n_ti_fi_a_b_le_ _A_s_se_t_s___________
(Dollars in Millions) 2008(5) 2007(6) 2006(7) 2008 2007 2006
Consumer $ 2,674 2,277 1,374 $23,765 26,550 25,380
Pharmaceutical 7,605 6,540 6,894 19,544 19,780 18,799
Medical Devices and Diagnostics 7,223 4,846 6,126 20,779 19,978 18,601
Total 17,502 13,663 14,394 64,088 66,308 62,780
Less: (Income) Expense not allocated to segments(3) 573 380 (193)
General corporate(4) 20,824 14,646 7,776
Worldwide total $16,929 13,283 14,587 $84,912 80,954 70,556
Additions to Property, Depreciation and
___________P_l_a_n_t _&_ E_q_u_i_p_m_e_n_t___________ _____________A__m_o_r_ti_z_at_i_o_n_____________
(Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006
Consumer $ 499 504 344 $ 489 472 255
Pharmaceutical 920 1,137 1,246 986 1,033 929
Medical Devices and Diagnostics 1,251 919 823 1,146 1,080 861
Segments total 2,670 2,560 2,413 2,621 2,585 2,045
General corporate 396 382 253 211 192 132
Worldwide total $3,066 2,942 2,666 $2,832 2,777 2,177
__________S_a_l_e_s _to__C_u_s_to_m__e_rs_(2_)__________ ___________Lo_n_g_-_L_iv_e_d_ A__ss_e_t_s_(8_)__________
(Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006
United States $32,309 32,444 29,775 $21,674 21,685 22,432
Europe 16,782 15,644 12,786 14,375 15,578 14,443
Western Hemisphere excluding U.S. 5,173 4,681 3,542 3,328 3,722 3,108
Asia-Pacific, Africa 9,483 8,326 7,221 1,898 1,261 1,206
Segments total 63,747 61,095 53,324 41,275 42,246 41,189
General corporate 785 702 543
Other non long-lived assets 42,852 38,006 28,824
Worldwide total $63,747 61,095 53,324 $84,912 80,954 70,556
(1)See Note 1 for a description of the segments in which the Company operates.
(2)Export sales are not significant. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Company did not have a customer that represented 10% of total revenues.
(3)Amounts not allocated to segments include interest (income) expense, minority interest and general corporate (income) expense.
(4)General corporate includes cash and marketable securities.
(5)Includes $7 million and $174million of In-Process Research and Development (IPR&D) for the Consumer and Medical Devices and Diagnostics segments, respectively. Includes $379 million
of fourth quarter net litigation gain, comprised of a $50million expense in the Consumer segment and a gain of $429 million in the Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment. The Medical
Devices and Diagnostics segment also includes $536 million gain on the divestiture of the Professional Wound Care business of Ethicon, Inc.
(6)Includes $745million of restructuring expense, comprised of $15 million, $429 million, and $301 million for the Consumer, Pharmaceutical, and Medical Devices and Diagnostics segments,
respectively. The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment includes $807 million of IPR&D. The Pharmaceutical segment also includes $678million for the write-down of the NATRECOR®
intangible asset.
(7)Includes $320 million and $239 million of IPR&D for the Consumer and Medical Devices and Diagnostics segments, respectively. The Medical Devices and Diagnostics segment also
includes the Guidant acquisition agreement termination fee, less associated expenses, of $622 million.
(8)Long-lived assets include property, plant and equipment, net for 2008, 2007 and 2006 of $14,365, $14,185 and $13,044, respectively, and intangible assets and goodwill, net for 2008,
2007 and 2006 of $27,695, $28,763 and $28,688, respectively.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5512. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income The tax effect on the unrealized gains/(losses) on the equity
Components of other comprehensive income/(loss) consist of securities was an expense of $14 million, $46 million and $33mil-
thefollowing: lion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The tax effect related to
employee benefit plans was $1,090 million, $349 million and $891
Total million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The tax effect on the
Unrealized Gains/ Accumulated
Foreign Gains/ (Losses) on Other gains/(losses) on derivatives and hedges are losses of$70 million
Currency (Losses) on Employee Derivatives Comprehensive in 2008, gains of $24 million in 2007, and losses of $4 million in
(Dollars in Millions) Translation Securities Benefit Plans & Hedges Income/(Loss)
2006. See Note 15 for additional information relating to derivatives
January 1, 2006 $ (520) 70 (320) 15 (755)
and hedging.
2006 changes
The currency translation adjustments are not currently
Net change due to adjusted for income taxes as they relate to permanent investments
hedging transactions — — — 17
in international subsidiaries.
Net amount reclassed
to net earnings — — — (23)
Net 2006 changes 362 (9) (1,710) (6) (1,363) 13. Pensions and Other Benefit Plans
The Company sponsors various retirement and pension plans,
December 31, 2006 $ (158) 61 (2,030) 9 (2,118)
including defined benefit, defined contribution and termination
2007 changes
indemnity plans, which cover most employees worldwide. The Com-
Net change due to
pany also provides postretirement benefits, primarily health care, to
hedging transactions — — — (78)
all U.S. retired employees and their dependents.
Net amount reclassed
Many international employees are covered by government-
to net earnings — — — 24
sponsored programs and the cost to the Company is not significant.
Net 2007 changes 786 23 670 (54) 1,425
Retirement plan benefits are primarily based on the employee’s
December 30, 2007 $ 628 84 (1,360) (45) (693)
compensation during the last three to five years before retirement
2008 changes and the number of years of service. International subsidiaries have
Net change due to plans under which funds are deposited with trustees, annuities are
hedging transactions — — — 94 purchased under group contracts, orreserves are provided.
Netamount reclassed The Companydoes not fund retiree health carebenefits in
to net earnings — — — 72 advance and has the right to modify these plans in the future.
Net2008 changes (2,499) (59) (1,870) 166 (4,262) The Company uses the date of its consolidated financial state-
December 28, 2008 $(1,871) 25 (3,230) 121 (4,955) ments (December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, respectively)
as the measurement date for all U.S. and international retirement
Total comprehensive income for 2008 includes reclassification and other benefit plans.
adjustment gains of $41million realized from the sale of equity In September 2006, Statement of Financial Accounting Stan-
securities and the associated tax expense of $14 million. dards (SFAS)No.158, Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pen-
Total comprehensiveincome for 2007 includes reclassification sion and Other Postretirement Planswas issued and amends further
adjustment gains of $7 million realized from the sale of equity the disclosurerequirements for pensions and other postretirement
securities and the associated tax expense of $2 million. benefits. This Statement was an amendment of FASB Statements
Total other comprehensiveincome for 2006 includes reclassi- No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R). The incremental effect of applying FASB
fication adjustment gains of $13 million realized from the sale of No.158 was a $1.7 billion reduction in Shareholder Equity, net of
equity securities and the associated tax expense of $4 million. deferred taxes.
56 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTNet periodic benefit costs for the Company’s defined benefit retirement plans and other benefit plans for 2008, 2007 and 2006
include the following components:
____________R_e_t_ir_e_m_e_n_t_ P_la_n_s____________ ___________O_t_h_e_r _B_e_n_e_fi_t _P_la_n_s___________
(Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006
Service cost $545 597 552 $142 140 122
Interest cost 701 656 570 166 149 136
Expected return on plan assets (876) (809) (701) (2) (2) (3)
Amortization of prior service cost 10 10 10 (4) (7) (7)
Amortization of net transition asset 2 1 (1) — — —
Recognized actuarial losses 62 186 251 64 66 74
Curtailments and settlements 7 5 4 — — —
Net periodic benefit cost $451 646 685 $366 346 322
The net periodic benefit cost attributable to U.S. retirement plans was $220 million, $379 million and $423 million in 2008, 2007 and
2006,respectively.
Amounts expected to be recognized in net periodic benefit cost life expectancy. The amortization of gains and losses for the other
in the coming year for the Company’s defined benefit retirement U.S. benefit plans is determined by using a 10% corridor of the
plans and other postretirement plans: greater of the market value of assets or the projected benefit obliga-
tion. Total unamortized gains and losses in excess of the corridor are
(Dollars in Millions)
amortized over the average remaining future service.
Amortization of net transition obligation $ 1
Prior service costs/benefits for the U.S. pension plans are
Amortization of net actuarial losses 236
amortized over the remaining future service of plan participants at
Amortization ofprior service cost 5 the time of the plan amendment. Prior service cost/benefit for the
other U.S. benefit plans is amortized over the average remaining
Unrecognized gains and losses for the U.S. pension plans are amor- service to full eligibility age of plan participants at the time of the
tized over the average remaining future service for each plan. For plan amendment.
plans with no active employees, they are amortized over the average
The weighted-average assumptions in the following table represent the rates used to develop the actuarial present value of projected
benefit obligation for the year listed and also the net periodic benefit cost for the following year.
____________R_e_t_ir_e_m_e_n_t_ P_la_n_s____________ ___________O_t_h_e_r _B_e_n_e_fi_t _P_la_n_s___________
(Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006
U.S. Benefit Plans
Discount rate 6.50% 6.50 6.00 6.50% 6.50 6.00
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00 9.00
Rateof increase in compensation levels 4.50 4.50 4.50 4.50 4.50 4.50
International Benefit Plans
Discount rate 6.00% 5.50 5.00 7.25% 6.50 6.00
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 8.00 8.25 8.00 — — —
Rateofincrease in compensation levels 4.00 4.00 3.75 4.50 4.50 4.50
The Company’s discount rates are determined by considering The following table displays the assumed health care cost trend
current yield curves representing high quality, long-term fixed rates, for all individuals:
income instruments. The resulting discount rates are consistent
Health Care Plans 2008 2007
with the duration of plan liabilities.
Health care cost trend rate assumed for next year 9.00% 9.00
The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assump-
Ratetowhich the cost trend rate is assumed
tion is determined using a building block approach, considering
to decline (ultimate trend) 5.00% 5.00
historical averages and real returns of each asset class. Incertain
Year the rate reaches the ultimate trend rate 2015 2014
countries, wherehistorical returns are not meaningful, considera-
tion is given to local market expectations of long-termreturns.
Aone-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend
rates would have the following effect:
One-Percentage- One-Percentage-
(Dollars in Millions) Point Increase Point Decrease
Health Care Plans
Total interest and service cost $ 34 $ (28)
Postretirement benefit obligation 320 (258)
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 57The following table sets forth information related to the benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets at year-end 2008 and 2007 for
the Company’s defined benefit retirement plans and other postretirement plans:
_____R_e_t_i_re_m__en_t_ P_l_a_n_s_____ ____O__th_e_r_ B_e_n_e_f_it_ P_l_a_n_s____
(Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 2008 2007
Change in Benefit Obligation
Projected benefit obligation — beginning of year $12,002 11,660 $2,721 2,668
Service cost 545 597 142 140
Interest cost 701 656 166 149
Plan participant contributions 60 62 — —
Amendments 10 14 1 —
Actuarial (gains) losses (318) (876) (124) (1)
Divestitures & acquisitions — 79 (2) 8
Curtailments & settlements (2) (46) — —
Benefits paid from plan (535) (481) (122) (255)
Effect of exchange rates (540) 337 (17) 12
Projected benefit obligation — end of year* $11,923 12,002 $2,765 2,721
Change in Plan Assets
Plan assets at fair value — beginning of year $10,469 9,538 $ 29 30
Actual return (loss) on plan assets (2,787) 743 (7) 4
Company contributions 978 317 117 250
Plan participant contributions 60 62 — —
Settlements (1) (38) — —
Divestitures & acquisitions — 55 — —
Benefits paid from plan assets (535) (481) (122) (255)
Effect of exchange rates (507) 273 — —
Plan assets at fair value — end of year $ 7,677 10,469 $ 17 29
Funded status at — end of year* $(4,246) (1,533) $(2,748) (2,692)
Amounts Recognized in the Company’s Balance Sheet consist of the following:
Non-current assets $ 136 481 — —
Current liabilities (45) (43) (212) (262)
Non-current liabilities (4,337) (1,971) (2,536) (2,430)
Total recognized in the consolidated balance sheet — end of year $(4,246) (1,533) $(2,748) (2,692)
AmountsRecognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income consist of the following:
Netactuarial (gain) loss $(2,064) 1,027 $ (472) 1,013
Prior servicecost(credit) 5 51 31 (36)
Unrecognized net transition asset 6 7 — —
Total before tax effects $(2,053) 1,085 $ (441) 977
Accumulated Benefit Obligations —end ofyear* $10,357 10,282
Changes in Plan Assets and Benefit Obligations Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income
Net periodic benefit cost $ 451 646 $ 366 346
Netactuarial loss (gain) 3,344 (555) 60 11
Amortization of net actuarial loss (68) (435) (65) (13)
Prior service cost (11) (9) 1 (34)
Amortization of prior service cost 10 14 6 6
Effectofexchange rates (102) 23 (1) 3
Total recognized in other comprehensive income, before tax $ 3,173 (962) $ 1 (27)
Total recognized in net periodic benefit cost and other comprehensive income $ 3,624 (316) $ 367 319
*The Company does not fund certain plans, as funding is not required. $1.2 billion of the projected
benefit obligation, $1.2 billion of the underfunded status, and $0.9 billion of the accumulated
benefit obligation for the fiscal years 2008 and 2007 relates to these unfunded pension plans.
Plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets consist of the following:
_____R_e_ti_re_m__e_n_t _P_la_n_s_____
(Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007
Accumulated benefit obligation $ (9,885) (4,914)
Projected benefit obligation (11,379) (5,233)
Plan assets at fair value 7,021 3,735
58 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTStrategic asset allocations are determined by country, based on the non-mature plans and the long-term strategic asset allocations are
nature of the liabilities and considering the demographic composi- consistent with these types of plans. Emphasis is placed on diversi-
tion of the plan participants (average age, years of service and fying equities on a broad basis combined with currency matching of
active versus retiree status). The Company’s plans are considered the fixed income assets.
The following table displays the projected future benefit payments from the Company’s retirement and other benefit plans:
(Dollars in Millions) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014-2018
Projected future benefit payments
Retirement plans $489 485 523 543 571 3,480
Other benefit plans—gross $229 185 189 191 193 1,049
Medicare rebates (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (85)
Other benefit plans—net $220 $175 $178 $179 $180 $ 964
In 2008, the Company contributed $399 million and $579 million International plans are funded in accordance with local
toits U.S. and international pension plans, respectively. In addition, regulations. Additional discretionary contributions are made when
the Company funded $450 million to its U.S. plans in the first two deemed appropriate to meet the long-term obligations of the
months of 2009. plans.For certain plans, funding is not a common practice, as fund-
In 2006, Congress passed the Pension Protection Act of 2006. ing provides no economic benefit. Consequently the Company has
The Act amended the Employee Retirement Income Security Act several pension plans that are not funded.
(ERISA) for plan years beginning after 2007 and established new
minimum funding standards for U.S. employer defined benefit plans.
The Company plans to continue to fund its U.S. defined benefit
plans to comply with the Act.
The following table displays the projected future minimum contributions to the Company’s U.S. and international unfunded retirement
plans. These amounts do not include anydiscretionary contributions that the Company may elect to make in the future.
(Dollars in Millions) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014-2018
Projected future contributions
Unfunded U.S. retirement plans $31 33 36 39 42 283
Unfunded International retirement plans $25 25 26 27 28 153
The Company’sretirement plan asset allocation at the end of 2008 and 2007 and target allocations for 2009 are as follows:
Percent of Target
________P_la_n_ A__ss_e_t_s_______ Allocation
2008 2007 2009
U.S. Retirement Plans
Equity securities 70% 79% 75%
Debtsecurities 30 21 25
Total plan assets 100% 100% 100%
International Retirement Plans
Equity securities 61% 67% 67%
Debt securities 38 32 33
Real estate and other 1 1
Total plan assets 100% 100% 100%
The Company’s other benefit plans are unfunded except for U.S. The fair value of Johnson & Johnson common stock directly
lifeinsurance contract assets of $17 million and $29 million at held in plan assets was $416 million (5.4% of total plan assets) at
December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, respectively. December 28, 2008 and $462 million (4.4% of total plan assets)
atDecember 30, 2007.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5914. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities
_______________D_e_c_e_m_b_e_r_ 2_8_,_ 2_0_0_8_______________ _______________D_e_c_e_m_b_e_r_ 3_0_,_ 2_0_0_7_______________
Amortized Unrealized Estimated Amortized Unrealized Estimated
(Dollars in Millions) Cost Gains/(Losses) Fair Value Cost Gains/(Losses) Fair Value
Current Investments
Cash $ 3,276 — 3,276 2,978 — 2,978
Government securities and obligations 7,486 4 7,490 2,722 1 2,723
Corporate debt securities 627 1 628 1,805 3 1,808
Money market funds 813 — 813 407 — 407
Time deposits 607 — 607 1,403 — 1,403
Total cash, cash equivalents and current marketable securities $12,809 5 12,814 9,315 4 9,319
Non-Current Investments
Marketable securities $ 4 — 4 2 — 2
Asof December 28, 2008, current marketable securities consist of eligible. Total Company matching contributions to the plans were
$1,663 million, $342 million and $36 million of government securities $166 million in 2008, $169 million in 2007 and $158 million in 2006.
and obligations, corporate debt securities and time deposits,
respectively.
17. Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures
As of December 30, 2007, current marketable securities con-
sist of $251 million and $1,294 million of government securities and Certain businesses were acquired for $1,214 million in cash and
obligations and corporate debt, respectively. $114million of liabilities assumed during 2008. These acquisitions
were accounted for by the purchase method and, accordingly,
results of operations have been included in the financial statements
CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK
from their respective dates of acquisition.
The Company invests its excess cash in both deposits with major
The 2008 acquisitions included: Amic AB, a privately held
banks throughout the world and other high-quality money market
Swedish developer of in vitro diagnostic technologies for use in
instruments. The Company has a policy of making investments
point-of-care and near-patient settings; Beijing Dabao Cosmetics
onlywith commercial institutions that have at least an A (or
Co., Ltd., a company that sells personal care brands in China;
equivalent)credit rating.
SurgRx, Inc., a privately held developer of the advanced bipolar
tissue sealing system used in the ENSEAL® family of devices;
15. Financial Instruments HealthMedia, Inc., a privately held companythat creates web-
All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at basedbehavior change interventions; LGE Performance Systems,
fairvalue. See Note 23 for additional details. Inc., a privately held company known as Human Performance Insti-
As of December 28, 2008, the balanceof deferred net gains tute™, which develops science-based training programs toimprove
onderivatives included in accumulated other comprehensive employee engagement and productivity and Omrix Biopharmaceu-
income was $121 million after-tax. For additional information, see ticals, Inc., a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company that
Note 12. The Company expects that substantially all of this amount develops and markets biosurgical and immunotherapy products.
will be reclassified into earnings over the next 12 months as a result The excess of purchase price over the estimated fair value of
oftransactions that are expected to occur over that period. The tangible assets acquired amounted to $891 million and has been
maximum length of time over which the Company is hedging trans- assigned to identifiable intangible assets, with any residual recorded
action exposure is 18 months. The amount ultimately realized in to goodwill. Approximately $181 million has been identified as the
earnings will differ as foreign exchangerates change. Realized value of IPR&D associated with the acquisitions of Omrix Biophar-
gainsand losses are ultimately determined by actual exchange maceuticals, Inc., Amic AB, SurgRx, Inc. and HealthMedia, Inc.
ratesat maturity of thederivative. Derivative gains/(losses), initially The IPR&D charge related to the acquisition of Omrix Biophar-
reported as a component of other comprehensive income, are maceuticals, Inc. was $127 million and is associated with stand-alone
reclassified to earnings in the period when the forecasted and combination biosurgical technologies used to achieve hemosta-
transactions affect earnings. sis. The value of the IPR&D was calculated using cash flowprojec-
For the fiscal years ended December 28, 2008, December 30, tions discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. Probability of
2007and December 31, 2006, the net impact of hedge ineffective- success factors ranging from 60–90% were used to reflect inherent
ness, transactions not qualifying for hedge accounting and dis- clinical and regulatory risk. The discount rate applied was14%. As of
continuanceof hedges, tothe Company’s financial statements, the end of the 2008 fiscal year,97.8% of the outstanding shares of
wasinsignificant. Common Stock of Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. had been tendered
Refer to Note 12 for disclosures of movements in Accumulated by stockholders. Excluding shares that were tendered subject to guar-
Other Comprehensive Income. anteed delivery procedures, 90.2% of the outstanding shares of Com-
mon Stock had been tendered. On December 30, 2008 the Company
completed the acquisition of Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.
16. Savings Plan
The IPR&D charge related to the acquisition of Amic AB was
The Company has voluntary 401 (k) savings plans designed to $40 million and is associated with point-of-care device and 4CAST
enhance the existing retirement programs covering eligible employ- Chip technologies. The value of the IPR&D was calculated using
ees. The Company matches a percentage of each employee’s contri- cash flowprojections discounted for the risk inherent in such
butions consistent with the provisions of the plan for which he/she is projects. The discount rate applied was 20%.
60 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTThe IPR&D charge related to the acquisition of SurgRx, Inc. was
(Unaudited) Pro forma results
$7 million and is associated with vessel cutting and sealing surgical Year ended
devices. The value of the IPR&D was calculated using cash flow pro- December 31,
(Shares in Millions Except Per Share Data) 2006
jections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. Probability
Net sales $57,115
ofsuccess factors ranging from 90–95% were used to reflect inher-
Net earnings $10,770
ent clinical and regulatory risk. The discount rate applied was 18%.
Diluted net earnings per share $ 3.64
The IPR&D charge related to the acquisition of HealthMedia,
Inc. was $7 million and is associated primarily with process
The IPR&D charge related to the acquisition of the Consumer
enhancements to software technology. The value of the IPR&D
Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. was $320 million on a pre-tax
wascalculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk
basis and $217 million on an after-tax basis and isprimarily associ-
inherent in such projects. A probability of success factor of 90%
ated with rights obtained to the switch of ZYRTEC® from U.S.
was used to reflect inherent risk. The discount rate applied was 14%.
prescription to over-the-counter status. The switch was approved
Certain businesses were acquired for $1,388 million in cash and
by the FDA effective November 2007. The value of the IPR&D was
$232 million of liabilities assumed during 2007. These acquisitions
calculated using cash flow projections discounted forthe risk
were accounted for by the purchase method and, accordingly,
inherent in such projects. A probability of success factor of 95%
results of operations have been included in the financial statements
wasused to reflect inherent regulatory risk as of the acquisition
from their respective dates of acquisition.
dateand the discount rate applied was11%.
The 2007 acquisitions included: Conor Medsystems, Inc., a
The Company completed the analysis of integration plans,
cardiovascular device company, with new drug delivery technology;
pursuant to which the Company is incurring costs primarily related
Robert Reid, Inc., a Japanese orthopedic product distributor; and
to the elimination of certain duplicate selling, general andadminis-
Maya’s Mom, Inc., a social media company.
trative functions between the two companies in areas such as
The excess of purchase price over the estimated fair value
globalbusiness services, corporate staff and go-to-market support,
oftangible assets acquired amounted to $636 million and has
as well as excess manufacturing capacity.
beenassigned to identifiable intangible assets, with any residual
In addition tothe acquisition of the Consumer Healthcarebusi-
recorded to goodwill. Approximately $807 million has been
ness of Pfizer Inc., 2006 acquisitions included: Animas Corporation,
identified as the value of IPR&D associated with the acquisition of
aleading maker of insulin infusion pumps and related products;
Conor Medsystems, Inc.
Hand Innovations LLC, a privately held manufacturer offracture
The IPR&D chargerelated to the acquisition of Conor
fixation products for the upper extremities; Future Medical Systems
Medsystems, Inc. was $807 million and is associated with research
S.A., a privately held company that primarily develops, manufac-
related to the discovery and application of the stent technology.
tures and markets arthroscopic fluid management systems; Vascu-
Thevalue of the IPR&D was calculated using cash flowprojections
lar Control Systems, Inc., a privately held company focused on
discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. The discount rate
developing medical devices to treat fibroids and to control bleeding
applied was 19%.
in obstetric and gynecologic applications; Groupe Vendôme S.A., a
Certain businesses were acquired for $18.0 billion in cash and
privately held French marketer of adult and baby skin care products;
$1.3billion of liabilities assumed during 2006. These acquisitions
ColBar LifeScience Ltd., a privately held company specializing in
were accounted for by the purchase method and, accordingly,
reconstructivemedicine and tissue engineering and EnsureMedical,
results of operations have been included in the financial statements
Inc., a privately held company that develops devices for post-
from their respectivedates of acquisition except as noted below.
catheterization closure of the femoral artery.
On December 20, 2006, the Company completed the
Excluding the acquisition of the Consumer Healthcare business
acquisition of the Consumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. for
of Pfizer Inc., the excess of purchase price over the estimated fair
apurchase price of $16.6 billion in cash. The operating results of
value of tangible assets acquired in 2006 amounted to $1,209 million
theConsumer Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. were reported in
and has been assigned to identifiable intangible assets, with any
the Company’s financial statements beginning in 2007, as 2006
residual recorded to goodwill. Approximately $239 million has been
results subsequent to the acquisition date were not significant.
identified as the value of IPR&D primarily associated with the acquisi-
In order toobtain regulatory approval of the transaction, the
tions of Hand Innovations LLC, Future Medical Systems S.A., Vascular
Company agreed to divest certain overlapping businesses. The
Control Systems, Inc., ColBar LifeScience Ltd. and Ensure Medical, Inc.
Company completed the divestiture of the ZANTAC® product
The IPR&D charge related to the acquisition of Hand
onDecember 20, 2006 and the divestitures of KAOPECTATE®,
Innovations LLC was $22 million and is associated with fracture
UNISOM®, CORTIZONE®, BALMEX® and ACT® products on
repair technologies. The value of the IPR&D was calculated using
January 2, 2007.
cash flowprojections discounted for the risk inherent in such
The following table provides proforma results of operations
projects. Probability of success factors ranging from 38–95% were
forthe fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, as if the Consumer
used to reflect inherent clinical and regulatory risk and the discount
Healthcare business of Pfizer Inc. had been acquired as of the begin-
rate applied was 17%.
ning of the period presented. The pro forma results include the
The IPR&D charge related to the acquisition of Future Medical
effect of divestitures and certain purchase accounting adjustments
Systems S.A. was $15 million and is associated with the NEXTRA
such as the estimated changes in depreciation and amortization
and DUO PUMP product technologies. The value of the IPR&D was
expense on the acquired tangible and intangible assets. However,
calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the risk inher-
pro forma results do not include any anticipated cost savings or
ent in such projects. A probability of success factor of 90% for both
other effects of the planned integration of the Consumer Healthcare
technologies was used to reflect inherent clinical and regulatory risk
businessof Pfizer Inc. Accordingly, such amounts are not necessar-
and the discount rateapplied was 22%.
ily indicative of the results if the acquisition had occurred on the
The IPR&D charge related to the acquisition of Vascular Control
dates indicated or which may occur in the future.
Systems, Inc. was $87 million and is associated with the FLOSTAT
system technology. The value of the IPR&D was calculated using cash
flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 61Aprobability of success factor of 75% was used to reflect inherent alleged overpayments for RISPERDAL®, several of which seek certifi-
clinical and regulatory risk and the discount rate applied was 21%. cation as classactions. In the case brought by the Attorney General
The IPR&D charge related to the acquisition of ColBar LifeScience ofWestVirginia, based on claims for alleged consumer fraud as
Ltd. was $49 million and is associated with the EVOLENCE® family of toDURAGESIC® as well as RISPERDAL®, Janssen was found liable
products, which are biodegradable dermal fillers. The value of the onmotion, and damages are likely to be assessed at less than
IPR&D was calculated using cash flow projections discounted for the $20million. Janssen intends to seek to appeal.
risk inherent in such projects. Probability of success factors ranging Numerous claims and lawsuits in the United States relating
from 70–80% were used to reflect inherent clinical and regulatory tothe drug PROPULSID®, withdrawn from general sale by the
risk and the discount rate applied was21%. Company’s Janssen subsidiary in 2000, have been resolved or are
The IPR&D charge related to the acquisition of Ensure Medical, currently enrolled in settlement programs with an aggregate cap
Inc. was $66 million and is associated with the femoral artery below $100 million. Litigation concerning PROPULSID® is pending
closure device. The value of the IPR&D was calculated using cash in Canada, where a class action of persons alleging adverse
flow projections discounted for the risk inherent in such projects. reactions to the drug has been certified.
Aprobability of success factor of 75% was used to reflect inherent
clinical and regulatory risk and the discount rate applied was 22%. AFFIRMATIVE STENT PATENT LITIGATION
With the exception of the Consumer Healthcare business of In patent infringement actions tried in Delaware Federal District
Pfizer Inc., supplemental pro forma information for 2008, 2007 and Court in late 2000, Cordis Corporation (Cordis), a subsidiary of
2006 per SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations,and SFAS No. 142, Johnson & Johnson, obtained verdicts of infringement and patent
Goodwill andOther Intangible Assets,is not provided, as the impact of validity, and damage awards against Boston Scientific Corporation
the aforementioned acquisitions did not have a material effect on (Boston Scientific) and Medtronic AVE, Inc. (Medtronic) based on
the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. anumber of Cordis vascular stent patents. In December 2000, the
With the exception of the divestiture of the Professional jury in the damage action against Boston Scientific returned a ver-
Wound Care business of Ethicon, Inc., which resulted in a gain of dict of $324 million and the jury in the Medtronic action returned a
$536million before tax, and is recorded in other (income) expense, verdict of $271 million. The Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
net, in 2008, divestitures in 2008, 2007 and 2006 did not have a has upheld liability in these cases, and on September 30, 2008,
material effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows thedistrict courtentered judgments, including interest, in the
or financial position. amounts of $702 million and $521 million against Boston Scientific
and Medtronic, respectively.Medtronic paid $472 million in Octo-
ber 2008, representing the judgment, net of amounts exchanged in
18. Legal Proceedings
settlement of a number of other litigations between the companies.
PRODUCT LIABILITY The net settlement of $472million was recorded as a credit to other
The Company’s subsidiaries are involved in numerous product (income) expense, net in the 2008 consolidated statement of earn-
liability cases in the United States, many of which concern alleged ings. The $702 million judgment against Boston Scientific is not
adverse reactions todrugs and medical devices. The damages reflected in the 2008 financial statements as Boston Scientific has
claimed aresubstantial, and while the Companyis confident of the appealed the judgments, and no amounts have been received.
adequacy of the warnings and instructions for use that accompany Cordis also has two arbitrations against Medtronic seeking
such products, it is not feasible topredict the ultimateoutcome of royalties for the sale of stent products introduced by Medtronic
litigation. However, the Company believes that if any product liabil- subsequent toDecember 2000 pursuant toa1997 cross-license
ity results from such cases, it will be substantially covered by exist- agreement between Cordis and Medtronic. The hearing on the first
ing amounts accrued in the Company’s balance sheet and, where of these arbitrations will take place in March 2009.
available, by third-party product liability insurance. In January 2003, Cordis filed a patent infringement action
Multiple products of Johnson & Johnson subsidiaries are sub- against Boston Scientific in Delaware Federal District Court accus-
ject tonumerous product liability claims and lawsuits, including ing its Express2™, Taxus® and Liberte® stents of infringing the
ORTHO EVRA®, RISPERDAL®, DURAGESIC®, CYPHER® Stent and Palmaz patent that expired in November 2005. The Liberte® stent
the CHARITÉ™ Artificial Disc. There are approximately 900 was also accused of infringing Cordis’ Gray patent that expires in
claimants who have pending lawsuits or claims regarding injuries 2016. In June 2005, a jury found that the Express2™, Taxus® and
allegedly due to ORTHO EVRA®, 507 with respect to RISPERDAL®, Liberte® stents infringed the Palmaz patent and that the Liberte®
267with respect toCHARITÉ™, 85 with respect toCYPHER® and stent also infringed the Gray patent. Boston Scientific has appealed
65 with respect to DURAGESIC®. These claimants seek substantial to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
compensatory and, where available, punitive damages. Cordis has filed several lawsuits in New Jersey Federal District
With respect to RISPERDAL®, the Attorneys General of eight Courtagainst Guidant Corporation (Guidant), Abbott Laboratories,
states and the Office of General Counsel of the Commonwealth of Inc. (Abbott), Boston Scientific and Medtronic alleging that the
Pennsylvania have filed actions seeking reimbursement of Medicaid or XienceV™ (Abbott), Promus™ (Boston Scientific) and Endeavor®
other public funds for RISPERDAL® prescriptions written for off-label (Medtronic) drug eluting stents infringe several patents owned by
use, compensation for treating their citizens for alleged adverse reac- or licensed to Cordis. In October 2008, Cordis filed suit against
tions to RISPERDAL®, civil fines or penalties, punitive damages, or Boston Scientific in Delaware Federal Court accusing the Taxus
other relief.The AttorneyGeneral of Texas has joined a qui tam action Liberte® stent of infringing the Gray patent.
in that state seeking similar relief. Certain of these actions also seek
injunctive relief relating to the promotion of RISPERDAL®. The Attor-
PATENT LITIGATION AGAINST VARIOUS
neys General of more than 40 other states have indicated a potential
JOHNSON & JOHNSON SUBSIDIARIES
interest in pursuing similar litigation against the Company’s Janssen
The products of various Johnson & Johnson subsidiaries are the
subsidiary (now Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc.)
subject of various patent lawsuits, the outcomes of which could
(OMJPI), and have obtained a tolling agreement staying the running of
potentially adversely affect the ability of those subsidiaries to
the statuteof limitations while theyinquireinto the issues. In addition,
there are six cases filed by union health plans seeking damages for
62 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTsellthose products, or require the payment of past damages and appeal to the Dutch Supreme Court. In October 2007, Boston Scientific
future royalties. prevailed in the nullity action challenging the validity of the Kastenhofer
In July 2005, a jury in Federal District Court in Delaware found patent filed by Cordis in Germany. Cordis has appealed. No substantive
that the Cordis CYPHER® Stent infringed Boston Scientific’s Ding hearings have been scheduled in the French or Italian actions.
’536 patent and that the Cordis CYPHER® and BX VELOCITY® Trial in Boston Scientific’s U.S. case based on the Kastenhofer
Stents also infringed Boston Scientific’s Jang ’021 patent. The jury patent in Federal District Court in California concluded in October
also found both of those patents valid. Boston Scientific seeks sub- 2007 with a jury finding that the patent was invalid. The jury also
stantial damages and an injunction in those actions. Cordis appealed. found for Cordis on its counterclaim that sale by Boston Scientific
On January 15, 2009, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit ofits balloon catheters and stent delivery systems infringe Cordis’
held the Ding patent invalid. It is expected that Boston Scientific will Fontirroche patent. The Court has denied Boston Scientific’s post
move for reconsideration. The appeal of the Jang patent case is still trial motions and is considering the appropriate remedy for
pending and if the judgment is upheld it will be remanded for a trial futureinfringement.
on the issues of damages and injunctive relief. In May 2008, Centocor, Inc. (now COBI) filed a lawsuit against
In Germany, Boston Scientific has several actions based on its Genentech, Inc. (Genentech) inU.S. District Court for the Central
Ding patents pending against the Cordis CYPHER® Stent. Cordis was District of California seeking to invalidate the Cabilly II patent.
successful in these actions at the trial level, but Boston Scientific has Priorto filing suit, Centocor had asublicense under this patent from
appealed. Boston Scientific has brought actions in Belgium, the Nether- Celltech (who was licensed by Genentech) for REMICADE® and
lands, Germany, France and Italy under its Kastenhofer patent, which hadbeen paying royalties to Celltech. Centocor has terminated
purports to cover two-layer catheters such as those used to deliver the thatsublicense and stopped paying royalties. Genentech has filed a
CYPHER® Stent, to enjoin the manufacture and sale of allegedly counterclaim alleging that REMICADE® infringes its Cabilly II patents
infringing catheters in those countries, and to recover damages. A deci- and that the manufacture of REMICADE®, ustekinumab, golimumab
sion by the lower court in the Netherlands in Boston Scientific’s favor and ReoPro infringe various of its patents relating to the purification
was reversed on appeal in April 2007. Boston Scientific has filed an of antibodies madethrough recombinant DNA techniques.
The following chartsummarizes various patent lawsuits concerning products of Johnson & Johnson subsidiaries that have yet to
proceed to trial:
J&J Plaintiff/
Product Company Patents Patent Holder Court Trial Date Date Filed
Two-layer Catheters Cordis Kastenhofer Boston Scientific Corp. Multiple European * 09/07
Contact Lenses Vision Care Nicolson CIBA Vision M.D. FL 03/09 09/03
CYPHER® Stent Cordis Wall Wall E.D. TX 04/11 11/07
CYPHER® Stent Cordis Bonutti MarcTec S.D. IL 05/09 11/07
CYPHER® Stent Cordis Saffran Saffran E.D. TX 01/11 10/07
Stent/Catheter Delivery Systems Cordis/Ethicon Schock Cardio Access LLC E.D. TX * 06/08
LISTERINE® Tooth Whitening Strips McNeil-PPC Sagel Procter & Gamble W.D. WI * 05/08
Blood Glucose Meters and Strips Lifescan Wilsey Roche Diagnostics D. DE * 11/07
REMICADE®, ustekinumab, Centocor Cabilly II Genentech C.D. CA * 05/08
golimumab, ReoPro
*Trial date to be scheduled.
LITIGATION AGAINST FILERS OF ABBREVIATED NEW DRUG non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability of these patents.
APPLICATIONS (ANDAs) In the event the subsidiary of the Company involved is not success-
The following chart indicates lawsuits pending against generic firms ful in these actions, or the statutory 30-month stay expires before
that filed Abbreviated NewDrug Applications (ANDAs) seeking aruling from the district courtis obtained, the firms involved will
tomarket generic forms of products sold by various subsidiaries of have the ability, upon FDA approval, to introduce generic versions of
the Company prior to expiration of the applicable patents covering the product at issue resulting in very substantial market share and
those products. These ANDAs typically include allegations of revenue losses for the product of the Company’s subsidiary.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 63Asnoted in the following chart, 30-month stays expired during 2006, 2007 and 2008, and will expire in 2009, 2010 and 2011 with
respect to ANDA challenges regarding various products:
Brand Name Patent/NDA Generic Trial Date 30-Month
Product Holder Challenger Court Date Filed Stay Expiration
CONCERTA® McNeil-PPC Andrx D. DE 12/07 09/05 None
18, 27, 36 and 54 mg controlled ALZA
release tablet
LEVAQUIN® 250, 500, 750 mg tablet Ortho-McNeil Lupin D. NJ * 10/06 03/09
ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN® LO Ortho-McNeil Barr D. NJ * 10/03 02/06
0.18 mg/0.025 mg, 0.215 mg/0.025 mg Watson D. NJ * 10/08 03/11
and 0.25 mg/0.025 mg
RAZADYNE® Janssen Teva D. DE 05/07 07/05 08/08
Mylan D. DE 05/07 07/05 08/08
Dr. Reddy’s D. DE 05/07 07/05 08/08
Purepac D. DE 05/07 07/05 08/08
Barr D. DE 05/07 07/05 08/08
AlphaPharm D. DE 05/07 07/05 08/08
RAZADYNE® ER Janssen Barr D. NJ * 06/06 None
Sandoz D. NJ * 05/07 None
KV Pharma D. NJ * 12/07 05/10
ULTRAM® ER 100, 200, 300 mg tablet Ortho-McNeil Par D. DE 01/09 05/07 09/09
ULTRAM® ER 100 mg tablet Ortho-McNeil- Impax D. DE * 08/08 01/11
Janssen
*Trial datetobe scheduled.
In the action against Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Barr) regarding stayed pending appeal of the Delaware decision. Litigation against
ORTHO TRI-CYCLEN® LO, on January 22, 2008, the Company’s Barr, KV and Sandoz as to the RAZADYNE® ER formulation patent
subsidiary Ortho Women’s Health & Urology, a Division of isproceeding. Barr has received FDA approval ofits product and
Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Barr agreed to haslaunched “at risk.”
anon-binding term sheet to settle the litigation, which settlement In the action against Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Lupin)
discussions arestill underway.The trial court postponed the regarding its ANDAconcerning LEVAQUIN®, Lupin contends that
January 22, 2008 trial without setting a new trial date. the United States Patent and Trademark Office improperly granted
On October 16, 2008, the Company’s subsidiary Ortho- apatent term extension to the patent that Ortho-McNeil (now
McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (OMJPI) filed suit in Federal Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) (OMJPI) licenses
District Court in New Jersey against Watson Laboratories, Inc. from Daiichi Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Daiichi). Lupin alleges that the
(Watson) in response to Watson’s ANDA regarding ORTHO activeingredient in LEVAQUIN® was the subject of prior marketing,
TRI-CYCLEN® LO. and therefore was not eligible for the patent term extension. Lupin
In the action against Barr and AlphaPharm with respect totheir concedes validity and that its product would violate the patent if
ANDA challenges to the RAZADYNE® patent that Janssen licenses marketed prior to the expiration of the original patent term.
fromSynaptech, Inc. (Synaptech), a four-day non-jury trial was held In the ULTRAM® ER actions, Ortho-McNeil (now OMJPI), filed
in the Federal District Court in Delaware in May 2007. On August lawsuits (each for different dosages) against Par Pharmaceuticals,
27,2008, the courtheld that the patent was invalid because it was Inc. and Par Pharmaceuticals Companies, Inc. (Par) in May, June and
not enabled. Janssen and Synaptech have appealed the decision. October 2007 on two Tramadol ER formulation patents owned by
Since the court’s decision, three generic companies have received Purdue Pharma Products L.P. (Purdue) and Napp Pharmaceutical
final approvals for their products and have launched “at risk” pend- Group Ltd. (Napp). OMJPI also filed lawsuits (each for different
ing appeal. Additional generic approvals and launches could occur dosages) against Impax Laboratories, Inc. (Impax) on a Tramadol ER
at any time. formulation patent owned by Purdue and Napp in August and
In the action by McNEIL-PPC, Inc. against Andrx Corporation November 2008. Purdue, Napp and Biovail Laboratories Interna-
(Andrx) with respect to its ANDA challenge to the CONCERTA® tional SRL (Biovail)(the NDA holder) joined as co-plaintiffs in the
patents, a five-day non-jury trial was held in the Federal District lawsuits against Par and Impax.
Courtin Delawarein December 2007. The Court has yet to issue its
ruling in that action. AVERAGE WHOLESALE PRICE (AWP) LITIGATION
In the RAZADYNE® ER cases, a lawsuit was filed against Johnson & Johnson and several of its pharmaceutical subsidiaries,
Barron the RAZADYNE® use patent that Janssen licenses from along with numerous other pharmaceutical companies, are defen-
Synaptech in June 2006 and on the RAZADYNE® ER formulation dants in a series of lawsuits in state and federal courts involving
patent in March 2007. Lawsuits (each for different dosages) allegations that the pricing and marketing of certain pharmaceutical
werefiled against KV Pharmaceutical Company (KV) on the products amounted to fraudulent and otherwise actionable conduct
RAZADYNE® ER formulation patent in December 2007 and June because, among other things, the companies allegedly reported
2008. Suit was filed against Sandoz on the RAZADYNE® use patent aninflated Average Wholesale Price (AWP) for the drugs at issue.
that Janssen licenses from Synaptech in May 2007 and on the Manyof these cases, both federal actions and stateactions
RAZADYNE® ER formulation patent in June 2008. In September removed to federal court, have been consolidated for pre-trial pur-
2008, the above-discussed Delaware decision invalidating the poses in a Multi-District Litigation (MDL) in Federal District Court
RAZADYNE® use patent resulted in entry of judgment for Barr on in Boston,Massachusetts. The plaintiffs in these cases include
that patent, and the case against Sandoz on that patent has been classes of private persons or entities that paid for any portion of the
64 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTpurchase of the drugs at issue based on AWP, and state government Court of Appeals ruled that plaintiffs’ appeal of the denial of class
entities that made Medicaid payments for the drugs at issue based certification was untimely. Plaintiffs are now engaged in further
on AWP. discovery of individual plaintiffs’ claims.
The MDL Court identified classes of Massachusetts-only pri- In March 2005, DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. (DePuy), a
vate insurers providing “Medi-gap” insurance coverage and private Johnson& Johnson subsidiary, received a subpoena from the
payers for physician-administered drugs where payments were U.S.Attorney’s Office, District of New Jersey, seeking records
based on AWP (“Class 2” and “Class 3”), and a national class of indi- concerning contractual relationships between DePuy and surgeons
viduals who made co-payments for physician-administered drugs or surgeons-in-training involved in hip and knee replacement and
covered by Medicare (“Class 1”). A trial of the two Massachusetts- reconstructive surgery. This investigation was resolved by DePuy
only class actions concluded before the MDL Court in December and the four other leading suppliers of hip and knee implants in late
2006. In June 2007, the MDL Court issued post-trial rulings, dismiss- September 2007 by agreements with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for
ing the Johnson & Johnson defendants from the case regarding all the District of New Jersey. The settlements include an 18-month
claims of Classes 2 and 3, and subsequently of Class 1 as well. The Deferred Prosecution Agreement (DPA), acceptance by each com-
ruling is the subject of a pending appeal. AWP cases brought by pany of a monitor to assure compliance with the DPA and, with
various Attorneys General have proceeded to trial against other respect to four of the five companies, payment of settlement monies
manufacturers. Cases including Johnson & Johnson subsidiaries are and entry into five year Corporate Integrity Agreements. DePuy paid
expected to be set for trial in 2009 andthereafter. $85 million asits settlement. In November 2007, the Attorney Gen-
eral of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts issued a civil inves-
OTHER tigative demand to DePuy seeking information regarding financial
InJuly 2003, Centocor (now COBI), a Johnson & Johnson sub- relationships between a number of Massachusetts-based orthope-
sidiary, received a request that it voluntarily provide documents and dic surgeons and providers and DePuy, which relationships had
information to the criminal division of the U.S. Attorney’s Office, been publicly disclosed by DePuy pursuant to the DPA. In February
District of New Jersey, in connection with its investigation into vari- 2008, DePuy received a written request for information from the
ous Centocor marketing practices. Subsequent requests for docu- U.S. Senate Special Committee on Aging, as a follow-up to earlier
ments have been received from the U.S. Attorney’s Office. Both the inquiries, concerning a number of aspects of the DPA.
Companyand Centocor have responded to these requests for In July 2005, Scios Inc. (Scios), a Johnson & Johnson sub-
documents and information. sidiary, received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, District
In December 2003, Ortho-McNeil (nowOMJPI) received a of Massachusetts, seeking documents related tothe sales and mar-
subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Boston, Massachusetts keting of NATRECOR®. Scios is responding to the subpoena. In early
seeking documents relating to the marketing, including alleged off- August 2005, Scios was advised that the investigation would be
label marketing, of the drug TOPAMAX® (topiramate). Additional handled bythe U.S. Attorney’sOfficefor the Northern District of
subpoenas for documents have been received, and current and for- California in San Francisco. Additional requests for documents have
mer employees have testified before a grand jury. Discussions are been received and responded to and former and current Scios
underway in an effort to resolve this matter, but whether agreement employees have testified before a grand jury in San Francisco.
can be reached and on what terms is uncertain. In September 2005, Johnson & Johnson received a subpoena
In January 2004, Janssen (now OMJPI) received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, District of Massachusetts, seeking
from the Officeof the Inspector General of the U.S. Office of Person- documents related tosales and marketing of eight drugs to Omni-
nel Management seeking documents concerning sales and market- care, Inc., a manager of pharmaceutical benefits for long-term care
ing of, any and all payments to physicians in connection with sales facilities. The Johnson & Johnson subsidiaries involved responded to
and marketing of, and clinical trials for, RISPERDAL® (risperidone) the subpoena. Several employees of the Company’s pharmaceutical
from 1997 to 2002. Documents subsequent to 2002 have also been subsidiaries have been subpoenaed to testify before a grand jury in
requested. An additional subpoena seeking information about mar- connection with this investigation.
keting of andadverse reactions to RISPERDAL® was received from In November 2005, Amgen filed suit against Hoffmann-
the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania in LaRoche, Inc. (Roche) in the U.S. District Court for the District of
November 2005. Subpoenas seeking testimony from various wit- Massachusetts seeking a declaration that the Roche product CERA,
nesses before a grand jury have also been received. Janssen is which Roche has indicated it would seek to introduce into the
cooperating in responding to these subpoenas. United States, infringes a number of Amgen patents concerning
In September 2004, Ortho Biotech Inc. (now COBI), received EPO. Amgen licenses EPO for sale in the United States to Ortho
asubpoena from the U.S. Office of Inspector General’s Denver, Biotech (now COBI) for non-dialysis indications. Trial in this action
Colorado field office seeking documents directed to the salesand concluded in October 2007 with a verdict in Amgen’s favor, finding
marketing of PROCRIT® (Epoetin alfa) from 1997tothe present, as the patents valid and infringed. The judgeissued a preliminary
well as to dealings with U.S. Oncology Inc., a healthcare services injunction blocking the CERA launch, but said he was considering
network for oncologists. Ortho Biotech (now COBI) has responded modifying that injunction to grant Roche a compulsory license that
tothe subpoena. would allowit to launch in the U.S. if it paid a 22.5 percent royalty.
In September 2004, plaintiffs in an employment discrimination Ina subsequent decision, the district judge indicated he would not
litigation initiated against the Company in 2001 in Federal District grant Roche a compulsory license.
Court in New Jersey moved to certify a class of all African American In February 2006, Johnson & Johnson received a subpoena from
and Hispanic salaried employees of the Company and its affiliates in the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC) requesting docu-
the U.S., who were employed at any time from November 1997 to ments relating to the participation by several Johnson & Johnson
the present. Plaintiffsseek monetary damages for the period 1997 subsidiaries in the United Nations Iraq Oil for Food Program. The
through the present (including punitive damages) and equitable subsidiaries are cooperating with the SEC and U.S. Department of
relief. The Court denied plaintiffs’ class certification motion in Justice (DOJ) in producing responsive documents.
December 2006 and their motion for reconsideration in April 2007.
Plaintiffssought toappeal these decisions and, in April 2008, the
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 65InSeptember 2006, Janssen (now OMJPI) received a sub- InMarch 2008, the Company received a letter request from
poena from the Attorney General of the State of California seeking the Attorney General of the State of Michigan. The request seeks
documents regarding sales and marketing and side-effects of documents and information relating to nominal price transactions.
RISPERDAL®, aswell as interactions with State officials regarding The Company is responding to the request and will cooperate with
the State’s formulary for Medicaid-reimbursed drugs. Janssen (now the inquiry.
OMJPI) has responded to thesubpoena. InJune 2008, Johnson & Johnson received a subpoena from
In February 2007, Johnson & Johnson voluntarily disclosed the United States Attorneys Office for the District of Massachusetts
tothe DOJ and the SEC that subsidiaries outside the United States relating to the marketing of biliary stents by the Company’s Cordis
are believed to have made improper payments in connection with subsidiary. Cordis is cooperating in responding to the subpoena.
the sale of medical devices in two small-market countries, which InSeptember 2008, Multilan AG, an indirect subsidiary of
payments may fall within the jurisdiction of the Foreign Corrupt Schering-Plough Corporation, commenced arbitration against
Practices Act (FCPA). In the course of continuing dialogues with the Janssen Pharmaceutica NV for an alleged wrongful termination of
agencies, other issues potentially rising to the level of FCPA viola- an agreement relating to payments in connection with termination
tions in additional markets have been brought to the attention of the of certain marketing rights. Multilan seeks declaratory relief,
agencies by the Company. The Company has provided and will con- specificperformance and damages. Multilan alleges that damages
tinue to provide additional information to DOJ and SEC, and will exceed €700 million. The parties are in the process of selecting
cooperate with the agencies’ reviews of these matters. Law enforce- anarbitral tribunal.
ment agencies of a number of other countries are also pursuing In recent years the Company has received numerous requests
investigations of matters voluntarily disclosed by the Company to from a variety of United States Congressional Committees to pro-
DOJ and SEC. Discussions are underway in an effort to resolve these duce information relevant to ongoing congressional inquiries. It is
matters, and the Iraq Oil for Food matter referenced above, but the Company’s policy to cooperate with these inquiries by produc-
whether agreement can be reached and on what terms is uncertain. ing the requested information.
In March 2007, the Company received separate subpoenas With respect to all the above matters, the Company and its
from the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Philadelphia, the U.S. Attorney’s subsidiaries are vigorously contesting the allegations asserted
Office in Boston and the U.S. Attorney’s Office in San Francisco. The against them and otherwise pursuing defenses to maximize the
subpoenas relatetoinvestigations by these three offices referenced prospect of success. The Company and its subsidiaries involved in
above concerning, respectively, sales and marketing of RISPERDAL® these matters continually evaluate their strategies in managing
byJanssen (nowOMJPI), TOPAMAX® by Ortho-McNeil (now these mattersand, whereappropriate, pursue settlements and other
OMJPI) and NATRECOR® by Scios. The subpoenas request informa- resolutions where those are in the best interest of the Company.
tion regarding the Company’s corporate supervision and oversight The Company is also involved in a number of other patent,
of these three subsidiaries, including their sales and marketing of trademark and other lawsuits incidental toits business. The ulti-
these drugs. The Company responded to these requests. In addition, mate legal and financial liability of the Company in respect to all
the U.S. Attorney’s office in Boston has issued subpoenas for grand claims, lawsuits and proceedings referred to above cannot be esti-
jury testimony to several employees of Johnson & Johnson. mated with any certainty. However, in the Company’s opinion, based
In May2007, the New York State Attorney General issued a on its examination of these matters, its experience to date and dis-
subpoena seeking information relating to the marketing and safety cussions with counsel, the ultimate outcome of legal proceedings,
of PROCRIT®. The Company is responding to these requests. net of liabilities accrued in the Company’s balance sheet, is not
In April 2007,the Companyreceived two subpoenas from expected tohave a material adverse effect on the Company’s finan-
theOffice of the Attorney General of the State of Delaware. The cial condition, although the resolution in any reporting period of one
subpoenas seek documents and information relating to nominal or more of these matters could have a significant impact on the
pricing agreements. For purposes of the subpoenas, nominal pricing Company’s results of operations and cash flows for that period.
agreements are defined as agreements under which the Company
agreed to provide a pharmaceutical product for less than ten
percent of theAverage Manufacturer Price for the product. The
Companyresponded to these requests.
In January 2008, the European Commission (“EC”) began an
industry-wide antitrust inquiry concerning competitive conditions
within the pharmaceutical sector. Because this is a sector inquiry, it
is not based on any specific allegation that the Company has vio-
lated EC competition law. The inquiry began with unannounced
raids of a substantial number of pharmaceutical companies
throughout Europe, including Johnson & Johnson affiliates. In March
2008, the EC issued detailed questionnaires to approximately 100
companies, including Johnson & Johnson affiliates. In November
2008, the EC issued a preliminary report summarizing its findings.
The final report is expected in June or July of 2009.
66 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORT19. Earnings Per Share 20. Capital and Treasury Stock
The following is a reconciliation of basic net earnings per shareto Changes in treasury stock were:
diluted net earnings per share for the fiscal years ended December
28, 2008, December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006: (Amounts in Millions Except Treasury Stock ______T_r_e_a_su_r_y_ S_t_o_c_k______
Number of Shares in Thousands) Shares Amount
(Shares in Millions Except Per Share Data) 2008 2007 2006 Balance at January 1, 2006 145,364 $ 5,965
Basic net earnings per share $ 4.62 3.67 3.76 Employee compensation and stock option plans (26,526) (1,677)
Average shares Conversion of subordinated debentures (540) (36)
outstanding—basic 2,802.5 2,882.9 2,936.4
Repurchase of common stock 108,314 6,722
Potential shares exercisable
Balance at December 31, 2006 226,612 10,974
under stock option plans 179.0 178.6 207.0
Employee compensation and stock option plans (33,296) (2,180)
Less: shares repurchased
Conversion of subordinated debentures (194) (13)
under treasury stock method (149.6) (154.5) (186.3)
Repurchase of common stock 86,498 5,607
Convertible debt shares 3.7 3.7 3.9
Balance at December 30, 2007 279,620 14,388
Adjusted average shares
outstanding—diluted 2,835.6 2,910.7 2,961.0 Employee compensation and stock option plans (29,906) (2,005)
Diluted net earnings per share $ 4.57 3.63 3.73 Conversion of subordinated debentures (19) (1)
Repurchase of common stock 100,970 6,651
The diluted net earnings per share calculation includes the dilutive Balance at December 28, 2008 350,665 $19,033
effect of convertible debt that is offset by the related reduction in
interest expense of $4 million after tax for years 2008, 2007 Aggregate shares of Common Stock issued were approximately
and2006. 3,120 million shares at the end of 2008, 2007 and 2006.
Diluted net earnings per share excludes 59 million, 64 million Cash dividends paid were $1.795 per share in 2008, compared
and 43 million shares underlying stock options for 2008, 2007 and with dividends of $1.620 per share in 2007 and $1.455 per share
2006, respectively, as the exercise price of these options was in2006.
greater than their average market value, which would result in an
anti-dilutiveeffect on diluted earnings per share.
21. Selected Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)
Selected unaudited quarterly financial data for the years 2008 and 2007 are summarized below:
______________________2_0__0_8_______________________ _______________________2_0_0_7______________________
First Second Third Fourth First Second Third Fourth
(Dollars in Millions ExceptPer Share Data) Quarter Quarter(1) Quarter Quarter(2) Quarter(3) Quarter Quarter(4) Quarter(5)
Segment sales to customers
Consumer $ 4,064 4,036 4,099 3,855 3,496 3,564 3,623 3,810
Pharmaceutical 6,429 6,340 6,113 5,685 6,221 6,149 6,099 6,397
Med Devices & Diagnostics 5,701 6,074 5,709 5,642 5,320 5,418 5,248 5,750
Total sales $16,194 16,450 15,921 15,182 15,037 15,131 14,970 15,957
Gross profit 11,580 11,699 11,147 10,810 10,652 10,773 10,696 11,223
Earnings before provision for taxes on income 4,747 4,375 4,290 3,517 3,652 4,031 3,268 2,332
Net earnings 3,598 3,327 3,310 2,714 2,573 3,081 2,548 2,374
Basic net earnings per share $ 1.27 1.18 1.19 0.98 0.89 1.06 0.88 0.83
Diluted net earnings per share $ 1.26 1.17 1.17 0.97 0.88 1.05 0.88 0.82
(1)The second quarter of 2008 includes an after-tax charge of $40 million for IPR&D.
(2)The fourth quarter of 2008 includes an after-tax charge of $141 million for IPR&D, $229 million after-tax of income from net litigation and $331 million after-tax gain on the divestiture of
the Professional Wound Carebusiness of Ethicon, Inc. The gain from the divestiture of the Professional Wound Care business of Ethicon, Inc. was reinvested in the business.
(3)The first quarter of 2007 includes an after-tax charge of $807 million for IPR&D.
(4)The third quarter of 2007 includes an after-tax charge of $528 million for restructuring.
(5)The fourth quarter of 2007 includes an after-tax charge of $441 million for the NATRECOR® intangible asset write-down and a one-time tax gain of $267 million for restructuring.
The lower tax rate is due to increases in taxable income in lower tax jurisdictions relative to taxable income in higher tax jurisdictions.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6722. Restructuring 23. Fair Value Measurements
In the third quarter of 2007, the Company announced restructuring During the fiscal first quarter of 2008, the Company adopted
initiatives in an effort to improve its overall cost structure. This SFASNo. 157, Fair Value Measurementsexcept for non-financial
action was taken to offset the anticipated negative impacts associ- assets and liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair value on a non-
ated with generic competition in the Pharmaceutical segment and recurring basis, for which the effective date is fiscal years beginning
challenges in the drug-eluting stent market. The Company’s Phar- after November 15, 2008. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, estab-
maceuticals segment has reduced its cost base by consolidating lishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclo-
certain operations, while continuing to invest in recently launched sures about fair value measurements.
products and its late-stage pipeline of new products. The Cordis During the fiscal first quarter of 2008, the Company adopted
franchise has moved to a more integrated business model to SFAS No. 159, Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
address the market changes underway with drug-eluting stents and Liabilities.SFAS No. 159 permits the Company to measure certain
to better serve the broad spectrum of its patients’ cardiovascular financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value. The Company
needs, while reducing its cost base. This program allowed the Com- assessed the fair value option made available upon adopting SFAS
pany to accelerate steps to standardize and streamline certain No. 159, and has elected not to apply the fair value option to any
aspects of its enterprise-wide functions such as human resources, financial instruments that were not already recognized at fair value.
finance and information technology to support growth across the SFAS No. 157 defines fair value as the exit price that would be
business, while also leveraging its scale more effectively in areas received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability. Fair value is a
such as procurement to benefit its operating companies. Addition- market-based measurement that should be determined using
ally, as part of this program the Company plans to eliminate assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset
approximately 4,400 positions of which approximately 3,500 or liability. The statement establishes a three-level hierarchy to
havebeen eliminated since the restructuring initiative was prioritize the inputs used in measuring fair value. The levels within
announced in2007. the hierarchy are described in the table below with level 1 having the
During the fiscal thirdquarter of 2007, the Company recorded highest priorityand level 3 having the lowest.
$745 million in related pre-tax charges, of which, approximately The following table provides a summary of the significant
$500 million of the pre-tax restructuring charges are expected to assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value as of
require cash payments. The $745 million of restructuring charges December 28, 2008.
consists of severance costs of $450 million, asset write-offs of
$272million and $23 million related to leasehold obligations. The
Quoted
$272 million of asset write-offs relate to property, plant and equip-
prices in
ment of $166 million, intangible assets of $48 million and other active Significant
assets of $58 million. markets for other Significant
identical observable unobservable
The following table summarizes the severance charges and the
assets inputs inputs
associated spending: (Dollars in Millions) December 28, 2008 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Assets:
(Dollars in Millions) Severance Derivativeinstruments $1,432 — $1,432 —
2007 severance charge $450
Liabilities:
Cash outlays (46) Derivativeinstruments $2,378 — $2,378 —
Reserve balance, December 30, 2007 404
Cash outlays (226) The Company uses forward exchange contracts to manage its
Reserve balance, December 28, 2008* $178 exposure to the variability of cash flows, primarily related to the
foreign exchange rate changes on future intercompany and third-
*Remaining reserve balance for severance is expected to be paid in accordance with the
Company’s plans and local laws. party purchases of raw materials denominated in foreign currency.
The Company also uses currency swaps to manage currency risk
For additional information on the restructuring as it relates to the primarily related to borrowings. The fair value of derivative instru-
segments, see Note11. ments is the aggregation, by currency, of all future cash flows dis-
counted topresent value at prevailing market interest rates, and
subsequently converted to the United States dollar at the current
spot foreign exchange rate. The Company does not believe that fair
values of these derivative instruments materially differ from the
amounts that could be realized upon settlement or maturity, or that
the changes in fair value will have a material effect on the Com-
pany’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position. The
Company did not have any other significant financial assets or liabil-
ities, which would require revised valuations under SFAS No. 157
that arerecognized atfair value.
24. Subsequent Events
On January 23, 2009, the Company completed the acquisition of
Mentor Corporation for a net purchase price of $1.1 billion. Mentor
Corporation is a leading supplier ofmedical products for theglobal
aesthetic market.
68 JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORTReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Johnson & Johnson: financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effec-
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and tiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits
the related consolidated statements of earnings, statements of also included performing such other procedures as we considered
equity, and statements of cash flows present fairly, in all material necessary inthe circumstances. We believe that our audits provide
respects, the financial position of Johnson & Johnson and its sub- areasonable basis for our opinions.
sidiaries (“the Company”) at December 28, 2008 and December Acompany’s internal control over financial reporting is a
30, 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
foreach of the three years in the period ended December 28, 2008 reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
theUnited States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
financial reporting as of December 28, 2008, based on criteria (i)pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
established in Internal Control — Integrated Frameworkissued by the accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commis- assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that trans-
sion (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for these actions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting prin-
financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of ciples, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being
internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompany- made only in accordance with authorizations of management and
ing, “Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance
Reporting.” Ourresponsibility is to express opinions on these finan- regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisi-
cial statements and on the Company’s internal control over financial tion, use, or disposition of the company’sassets that could have
reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits amaterial effect on the financial statements.
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over finan-
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we cial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, pro-
plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about jections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
whether the financial statements arefree of material misstatement subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because
and whether effectiveinternal control over financial reporting was ofchanges in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial state- policies or procedures may deteriorate.
ments included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
theamounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made
bymanagement, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting NewYork, NewYork
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over February 17, 2009
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, manage- used the criteria establishedby the Committee of Sponsoring
ment is required to assess the effectiveness of the Company’s inter- Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in “Internal
nal control over financial reporting as of theendof each fiscal year Control-Integrated Framework.”These criteria are in the areas
and report, based on that assessment, whether the Company’s ofcontrol environment, risk assessment, control activities, informa-
internal control over financial reporting is effective. tion and communication, and monitoring.The Company’s assess-
Management of the Company is responsible for establishing ment included extensive documenting, evaluating and testing the
and maintaining adequateinternal control over financial reporting. design and operating effectiveness of its internal controls over
The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is designed financial reporting.
toprovide reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the Company’s Based on the Company’sprocesses and assessment, as
financial reporting and the preparation of external financial state- described above, management has concluded that, as of December
ments in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 28, 2008, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
Internal controls over financial reporting, no matter how well was effective.
designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, internal control over The effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting determined to be effective can provide only financial reporting as of December 28, 2008 has been audited by
reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement prepara- PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
tion and maynot prevent or detect all misstatements. Moreover, accounting firm, as stated in their report, which appears herein.
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject tothe risk that controls maybecome inadequate because
ofchanges in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
The Company’s management has assessed the effectiveness William C. Weldon Dominic J. Caruso
ofthe Company’s internal control over financial reporting as Chairman, Board of Directors, Vice President, Finance,
ofDecember 28, 2008.In making this assessment, the Company and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
JOHNSON & JOHNSON 2008 ANNUAL REPORT 69Summary of Operations and Statistical Data
1998-2008
(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Figures) 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998
Sales to customer—U.S. $32,309 32,444 29,775 28,377 27,770 25,274 22,455 19,825 17,316 15,532 12,901
Sales to customer—International 31,438 28,651 23,549 22,137 19,578 16,588 13,843 12,492 11,856 11,825 10,910
Total sales 63,747 61,095 53,324 50,514 47,348 41,862 36,298 32,317 29,172 27,357 23,811
Cost of products sold 18,511 17,751 15,057 14,010 13,474 12,231 10,498 9,622 8,987 8,559 7,711
Selling, marketing and administrative expenses 21,490 20,451 17,433 17,211 16,174 14,463 12,520 11,510 10,675 10,182 8,595
Research expense 7,577 7,680 7,125 6,462 5,344 4,834 4,094 3,704 3,186 2,821 2,538
Purchased in-process research and development 181 807 559 362 18 918 189 105 66 — 298
Interest income (361) (452) (829) (487) (195) (177) (256) (456) (429) (266) (302)
Interest expense, net of portion capitalized 435 296 63 54 187 207 160 153 204 255 186
Other (income) expense, net(4) (1,015) 534 (671) (214) 15 (385) 294 185 (94) 119 12
Restructuring — 745 — — — — — — — — 553
46,818 47,812 38,737 37,398 35,017 32,091 27,499 24,823 22,595 21,670 19,591
Earnings before provision for taxes on income 16,929 13,283 14,587 13,116 12,331 9,771 8,799 7,494 6,577 5,687 4,220
Provision for taxes on income 3,980 2,707 3,534 3,056 4,151 2,923 2,522 2,089 1,813 1,554 1,196
Netearnings 12,949 10,576 11,053 10,060 8,180 6,848 6,277 5,405 4,764 4,133 3,024
Percent of sales to customers 20.3 17.3 20.7 19.9 17.3 16.4 17.3 16.7 16.3 15.1 12.7
Diluted net earnings per share of common stock $ 4.57 3.63 3.73 3.35 2.74 2.29 2.06 1.75 1.55 1.34 1.00
Percent return on average shareholders’ equity 30.2 25.6 28.3 28.2 27.3 27.1 26.4 24.0 25.3 26.0 21.6
Percent increase (decrease) over previous year:
Sales to customers 4.3 14.6 5.6 6.7 13.1 15.3 12.3 10.8 6.6 14.9 5.7
Diluted net earnings per share 25.9 (2.7) 11.3 22.3 19.7 11.2 17.7 12.9 15.7 34.0 (1.0)
Supplementary expense data:
Cost of materials and services(1) $29,346 27,967 22,912 22,328 21,053 18,568 16,540 15,333 14,113 13,922 11,779
Total employment costs 14,523 14,571 13,444 12,364 11,581 10,542 8,942 8,153 7,376 6,727 6,021
Depreciation and amortization 2,832 2,777 2,177 2,093 2,124 1,869 1,662 1,605 1,592 1,510 1,335
Maintenance and repairs(2) 583 483 506 510 462 395 360 372 327 322 286
Total tax expense(3) 5,558 4,177 4,857 4,285 5,215 3,890 3,325 2,854 2,517 2,221 1,845
Supplementary balancesheet data:
Property, plant and equipment, net 14,365 14,185 13,044 10,830 10,436 9,846 8,710 7,719 7,409 7,155 6,767
Additions toproperty, plant and equipment 3,066 2,942 2,666 2,632 2,175 2,262 2,099 1,731 1,689 1,822 1,610
Total assets 84,912 80,954 70,556 58,864 54,039 48,858 40,984 38,771 34,435 31,163 29,019
Long-term debt 8,120 7,074 2,014 2,017 2,565 2,955 2,022 2,217 3,163 3,429 2,652
Operating cash flow 14,972 15,022 14,248 11,799 11,089 10,571 8,135 8,781 6,889 5,913 5,104
Common stock information
Dividends paid per share $ 1.795 1.620 1.455 1.275 1.095 0.925 0.795 0.700 0.620 0.550 0.490
Shareholders’ equity per share $ 15.35 15.25 13.59 13.01 10.95 9.25 7.79 8.05 6.82 5.73 4.95
Market price per share (year-end close) $ 58.56 67.38 66.02 60.10 63.42 50.62 53.11 59.86 52.53 46.63 41.94
Average shares outstanding (millions)—basic 2,802.5 2,882.9 2,936.4 2,973.9 2,968.4 2,968.1 2,998.3 3,033.8 2,993.5 2,978.2 2,973.6
—diluted 2,835.6 2,910.7 2,961.0 3,002.8 2,992.7 2,995.1 3,049.1 3,089.3 3,075.2 3,090.4 3,067.0
Employees (thousands) 118.7 119.2 122.2 115.6 109.9 110.6 108.3 101.8 100.9 99.8 96.1
(1)Net of interest and other income.
(2)Also included in cost of materials and services category.
(3)Includes taxes on income, payroll, property and other business taxes.
(4)2008 includes a $536 million before tax gain from the divestiture of the Professional Wound Care business of Ethicon, Inc. and a $379 million before tax netfourth quarter litigation gain.
2007 includes a $678 million before tax write-down related to the NATRECOR® intangible asset.
70 SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS AND STATISTICAL DATAShareholder Return Performance Graphs
SetforthbelowarelinegraphscomparingthecumulativetotalshareholderreturnontheCompany’sCommonStockforperiodsoffiveyears
andtenyearsendingDecember31,2008,againstthecumulativetotalreturnoftheStandard&Poor’s500StockIndex,theStandard&Poor’s
PharmaceuticalIndexandtheStandard&Poor’sHealthCareEquipmentIndex.Thegraphsandtablesassumethat$100wasinvested
onDecember31,2003andDecember31,1998ineachoftheCompany’sCommonStock,theStandard&Poor’s500StockIndex,the
Standard&Poor’sPharmaceuticalIndexandtheStandard&Poor’sHealthCareEquipmentIndexandthatalldividendswerereinvested.
5-YearCumulative $160
TotalShareholderReturn
(2003–2008)
Johnson&Johnson
$140
S&P500Index
S&PPharmaceutical
Index $120
S&PHealthCare
EquipmentIndex
5-YearC.A.G.R. $100
J&J 5.4%
S&P500 (2.2%)
S&PPharm (2.4%)
S&PH/CEquip (2.2%)
$80
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Johnson&Johnson $100.00 125.17 120.96 136.02 140.93 129.98
S&P500Index $100.00 110.88 116.32 134.69 142.09 89.52
S&PPharmaceuticalIndex $100.00 92.57 89.46 103.64 108.46 88.73
S&PHealthCareEquipmentIndex $100.00 112.62 112.68 117.33 123.35 89.25
10-YearCumulative $200
TotalShareholderReturn
(1998–2008)
Johnson&Johnson
S&P500Index $150
S&PPharmaceutical
Index
S&PHealthCare
EquipmentIndex
$100
10-YearC.A.G.R.
J&J 5.6%
S&P500 (1.4%)
S&PPharm (2.3%)
S&PH/CEquip 2.8%
$50
1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
Johnson&Johnson $100.00 112.47 128.44 146.43 134.90 132.04 165.27 159.73 179.60 186.09 171.63
S&P500Index $100.00 121.04 110.05 96.97 75.54 97.21 107.78 113.07 130.93 138.13 87.02
S&PPharmaceuticalIndex $100.00 88.02 119.87 102.44 81.91 89.10 82.48 79.71 92.35 96.64 79.06
S&PHealthCareEquipmentIndex $100.00 92.18 135.17 128.32 112.10 148.01 166.69 166.78 173.66 182.57 132.10
SHAREHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE GRAPHS 71Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The tables below are provided to reconcile certain financial disclosures in the Letter to Shareholders, page 1.
’08 vs. ’07 ’07 vs. ’06
(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Data) 2008 2007 2006 % Change % Change
Earnings before provision for taxes on income — as reported $16,929 13,283 14,587 27.4% (8.9)
Purchased in-process research & development (IPR&D) 181 807 559
Net gain on fourth quarter litigation (379) — —
Restructuring charges — 745 —
NATRECOR® intangible asset write-down — 678 —
Guidant acquisition agreement termination fee — — (622)
Earnings before provision for taxes on income — as adjusted $16,731 15,513 14,524 7.9% 6.8
Net Earnings — as reported $12,949 10,576 11,053 22.4% (4.3)
Purchased in-process research & development (IPR&D) 181 807 448
Net gain on fourth quarter litigation (229) — —
Restructuring charges — 528 —
NATRECOR® intangible asset write-down — 441 —
International tax gain on restructuring — (267) —
Guidant acquisition agreement termination fee — — (368)
Net Earnings — as adjusted $12,901 12,085 11,133 6.8% 8.6
Diluted net earnings per share — as reported $ 4.57 3.63 3.73 25.9% (2.7)
Purchased in-process research & development (IPR&D) 0.06 0.28 0.15
Net gain on fourth quarter litigation (0.08) — —
Restructuring charges — 0.18 —
NATRECOR® intangible asset write-down — 0.15 —
International tax gain on restructuring — (0.09) —
Guidant acquisition agreement termination fee — — (0.12)
Diluted net earnings per share — as adjusted $ 4.55 4.15 3.76 9.6% 10.4
(Dollars in Millions) 2008 2007 2006
Net cash flows from operating activities $14,972 15,022 14,248
Additions to property, plant and equipment (3,066) (2,942) (2,666)
Free Cash Flow $11,906 12,080 11,582
The Company believes investors gain additional perspective of underlying business trends and results by providing free cash flow, a measure
of earnings before tax, net earnings and diluted net earnings per share that excludes IPR&D charges and other special items in order to eval-
uateongoing businessoperations. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered replacements for, and should be read
together with, the most comparable GAAP financial measures.
72 RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURESPRiNCiP al OffiCE The Company is required to file as an Exhibit diVidENd REiNVESTMENT PlaN
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza to its Form 10-K for each fiscal year certifica- The Plan allows for full or partial
New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933 tions under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley dividend reinvestment, and additional monthly
(732) 524-0400 Act signed by the Chief Executive Officer cash investments up to $50,000 per year,
and the Chief Financial Officer. In addition, in Johnson & Johnson common stock without
aNNual MEETiNg
the Company is required to submit a certifica- brokerage commissions or service charges
The Annual Meeting of Shareholders will take
tion signed by the Chief Executive Officer on stock purchases. If you are interested in
place April 23, 2009, at the Hyatt Regency
to the New York Stock Exchange within 30 days participating in the Plan and need an authoriza-
New Brunswick, 2 Albany Street, New Brunswick,
following the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. tion form and/or more information, please call
New Jersey. The meeting will convene at 10 a.m.
Copies of the certifications filed for previous Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
All shareholders are cordially invited to attend.
years are posted on the Company’s Corporate at (800) 328-9033 or (781) 575-2718
A formal Notice of Meeting, Proxy Statement
Governance web site, and future certifications (outside the U.S.).
and Proxy have been sent to shareholders.
will be posted promptly upon filing.
HEaRiNg iMP aiREd
CORPORaTE gOVERNaNCE
COMMON STOCk Shareholders who have inquiries regarding
Copies of the Company’s 2008 Annual Report
Listed on New York Stock Exchange stock-related matters can communicate directly
on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q
Stock Symbol JNJ with Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
and Current Reports on Form 8-K to
via a telecommunications device (TDD).
the Securities and Exchange Commission, SHaREHOldER REla TiONS CONTaCT
The telephone number for this service is
Proxy Statement, and this Annual Report Steven M. Rosenberg
(800) 952-9245 or (781) 575-2692
are available online at www.jnj.com, or to Corporate Secretary
(outside the U.S.).
shareholders without charge upon written (732) 524-2455
request to the Secretary at the Company’s Registered shareholders who wish to receive
iNVESTOR RElaTiONS CONTaCT
principal address or by calling (800) 950-5089. electronic notice of online access to future
Louise Mehrotra
annual reports and proxy materials instead
In addition, on the Company’s Vice President, Investor Relations
of paper copies may register online
Corporate Governance web site at (800) 950-5089
at www.computershare.com/us/ecomms,
www.investor.jnj.com/governance.cfm, (732) 524-6492
or www.computershare.com/econsent for
shareholders can see the Company’s
TRaNSfER a gENT aNd RE giSTRaR employees holding shares in one of the
Principles of Corporate Governance,
Questions regarding stock holdings, Johnson & Johnson savings plans.
Charters of the Audit Committee,
certificate replacement/transfer, dividends
Compensation & Benefits Committee JOHNSON & JOHNSON ON THE WEB:
and address changes should be directed to:
and Nominating & Corporate Governance Company site: www.jnj.com
Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
Committee, Policy on Business Conduct
250 Royall Street Johnson & Johnson history:
for employees and Code of Business
Canton, MA 02021 www.kilmerhouse.com
Conduct & Ethics for Members of the Board
(800) 328-9033 or
of Directors and Executive Officers. Blog: www.jnjbtw.com
(781) 575-2718 (outside the U.S.)
Copies of these documents are available
www.computershare.com YouTube: www.youtube.com/JNJhealth
to shareholders without charge upon written
request to the Secretary at the Company’s ©Johnson & Johnson 2009
The paper used in this publication is made from
principal address.
30% post-consumer recycled fiber, is Forest Stewardship
Council certified for chain of custody and was
manufactured with green energy credits for purchase
of electricity generated from renewable-energy sources
such as wind and low-impact hydro resources.
THE fOllOWiNg TRadEMaRk S aNd TRadE NaMES Of JOHNSON & JOHNSON aNd iTS affilia TEd COMPaNiES aPPEaR iN THiS REPORT :
1-DAY ACUVUE TRUEYE, ACCESS2WELLNESS, ACIPHEX/PARIET, ACTIVE NATURALS, ACUMINDER, ACUVUE, ACUVUE OASYS, ADVANTAGE, ADVANTAGE BLACKHEAD ERASER, ANIMAS,
AVEENO, AVEENO POSITIVELY AGELESS, BEIJING DABAO COSMETICS COMPANY, BLUE COMET, CENTOCOR, CENTOCOR BIOLOGICS, CHILDREN WITH DIABETES, CILAG AG, CLEAN & CLEAR,
CODMAN & SHURTLEFF, CONCERTA, CONFIDENCE SPINAL CEMENT SYSTEM, CORDIS, CYPHER, CYPHER ELITE, DABAO, DEPUY, DEPUY MITEK, DEPUY ORTHOPAEDICS, DEPUY SPINE,
DIABETES JUVENIL, DOXIL, DURAGESIC, ENSEAL, ETHICON, ETHICON ENDO-SURGERY, EVICEL, EVITHROM, FEVERFEW PFE, GLOBAL PHARMACEUTICAL SUPPLY CHAIN, GRIPTION,
GROUPE VENDOME, HARMONIC, HARMONIC ACE, HARMONIC SYNERGY, HEALTHMEDIA, HUMAN PERFORMANCE INSTITUTE, INTELENCE, INVEGA, JANSSEN CILAG, JOHNSON & JOHNSON,
JOHNSON & JOHNSON CONSUMER COMPANIES, JOHNSON & JOHNSON DIABETES INSTITUTE, JOHNSON & JOHNSON PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, JOHNSON & JOHNSON
VISION CARE, JOHNSON’S, LE PETIT MARSEILLAIS, LEVAQUIN/FLOXIN, LGE PERFORMANCE SYSTEMS, LIFESCAN, LISTERINE, LISTERINE TOTAL CARE, MCNEIL-PPC, MEAL MEMORY, MENTOR,
MICRO GROOVES, MINIMED PARADIGM, NAVISTAR THERMOCOOL, NEOSPORIN, NEUTROGENA, NEVER STOP MOVING, NEVO, NUCYNTA, OMRIX BIOPHARMACEUTICALS, ONETOUCH,
ONETOUCH PING, ONETOUCH ULTRALINK, ONETOUCH ULTRAMINI, ONETOUCH VITA, ORTHO-CLINICAL DIAGNOSTICS, ORTHO-MCNEIL-JANSSEN PHARMACEUTICALS, ORTHO BIOTECH
PRODUCTS, PREZISTA, PROCRIT/EPREX, PURPLE TWILIGHT, REACH, REACH ULTRACLEAN, REALIZE, REALIZE MYSUCCESS, REMICADE, RISPERDAL, RISPERDAL CONSTA, SEDASYS, SIGMA,
SKIN ID, S.M.A.R.T., STELARA, SURGRX, TAXOTERE, THE VISION CARE INSTITUTE, TOPAMAX, TRI-LOCK, TYLENOL, VITROS, ZEFTERA, ZEVTERA, ZYRTEC, ZYRTEC-D
THE fOllOWiNg TRadEMaRk S aNd TRadE NaMES Of OTHER COMP aNiES alSO aPPEaR iN THiS REPORT :
American Diabetes Association, Basilea Pharmaceutica Ltd., Bayer HealthCare AG, The Beijing Organizing Committee for the Games of the XXIX Olympiad, China Qin Shi Huang Terracotta Army
Museum, Forest Stewardship Council, Global Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, Grünenthal, Health Care Notification Network, International Olympic Committee
IOC 2008, INSEAD, INTERPHEX, ISPE, Minimed Paradigm (Medtronic MiniMed, Inc.), mothers2mothers, National Psoriasis Foundation, Pharmaceutical Processing, PharmaMar , Project HOPE,
SK Holdings Co. Ltd., UNAIDS, UNICEF, U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Velcade (Millennium: The Takeda Oncology Company)
CORPORATE AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATIONOUR C R E DO
We believe our first responsibility is to the doctors, nurses and patients, to mothers
and fathers and all others who use our products and services. In meeting their needs,
everything we do must be of high quality. We must constantly strive to reduce our costs in order
to maintain reasonable prices. Customers’ orders must be serviced promptly and accurately.
Our suppliers and distributors must have an opportunity to make a fair profit.
We are responsible to our employees, the men and women who work with us
throughout the world. Everyone must be considered as an individual. We must respect their
dignity and recognize their merit. They must have a sense of security in their jobs.
Compensation must be fair and adequate, and working conditions clean, orderly and safe.
We must be mindful of ways to help our employees fulfill their family responsibilities.
Employees must feel free to make suggestions and complaints. There must be equal opportunity
for employment, development and advancement for those qualified. We must provide
competent management, and their actions must be just and ethical.
We are responsible to the communities in which we live and work and to the world community
as well. We must be good citizens—support good works and charities and bear our
fair share of taxes. We must encourage civic improvements and better health and education.
We must maintain in good order the property we are privileged to use,
protecting the environment and natural resources.
Our final responsibility is to our stockholders. Business must make a sound profit.
We must experiment with new ideas. Research must be carried on, innovative programs
developed and mistakes paid for. New equipment must be purchased,
new facilities provided and new products launched. Reserves must be created to provide for
adverse times. When we operate according to these principles, the stockholders
should realize a fair return.
One Johnson & Johnson Plaza
New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933