At GSK, we unite science,
technology and talent to
get ahead of disease together.
We aim to positively impact the health of 2.5 billion people
by the end of the decade, as a successful, growing company
where people can thrive.
Contents
Strategic report Corporate governance Investor information
Ahead Together 01 The Board and GSK Leadership Financial record 273
2023 performance and key Team 108 Product development pipeline 277
performance indicators 02 Chair’s governance statement 114 Products, competition
Chair’s statement 04 Corporate governance architecture 116 and intellectual property 281
CEO’s statement 06 Ahead Together – Board oversight 119 Principal risks and uncertainties 284
Business model 08 Continuous engagements and key Share capital and control 295
Our external environment 10 decisions 121 Dividends 297
Prevention 13 Board committee reports 128 Financial calendar 2024 298
Our culture and people 14 Remuneration Committee Chair’s Annual General Meeting 2024 298
Research and development 16 annual statement 139 Tax information for shareholders 299
Commercial operations: 31 Annual report on remuneration 142 Shareholder services and contacts 301
Performance: Vaccines 33 Directors’ report 161 US law and regulation 303
Performance: Specialty Medicines 37 Group companies 306
Performance: General Medicines 40 Financial statements Glossary of terms 315
Operations: Manufacturing Directors’ statement
and supply 43 of responsibilities 164
Responsible business 45 Independent auditor’s report 166
Risk management and disclosure Financial statements 180
statements 57 Notes to the financial statements 184
2023 principal risks summary 59 Financial statements of GSK plc
Climate-related financial prepared under UK GAAP 267
disclosures 62
Nature-related financial disclosures 70
Non-financial and sustainability
information statement 75
Employees by gender 75
Viability statement 76
Group financial review 77
Cautionary statement
See the inside back cover of this document for the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Non-IFRS measures
We use a number of adjusted, non-International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) measures to report the performance of our business. Total reported
results represent the Group’s overall performance under IFRS. Adjusted results and other non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not as a
substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted results and other non-IFRS measures are defined on pages 82 and 83
and reconciliations to the nearest IFRS measures are on pages 93 to 95.Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
We are a focused biopharma
company with strong momentum
and big ambitions.
We prevent and treat disease with vaccines, We’re committed to getting ahead of
specialty and general medicines. We focus issues that matter for society and for
on the science of the immune system and the the sustainability of our company, too –
use of new platform and data technologies, including access to healthcare, diversity,
investing in four core therapeutic areas equity and inclusion, and the health of
(infectious diseases, HIV, respiratory/ our planet. We're sector leaders in ESG
immunology and oncology). Our Ahead performance, making an impact on some
Together strategy means intervening early of society’s most urgent challenges.
to prevent and change the course of disease,
helping to protect people and support Our purpose puts our people at the heart
healthcare systems. of our success. Core to our Ahead Together
ambition is to make GSK a place where
We’re confident in our future. With our talented people thrive. Our culture of being
strong momentum and improving outlook ambitious for patients, accountable for
for sustained growth through the decade, impact and doing the right thing is the
we're confident in our ability to deliver foundation for how, together, we deliver for
human health impact at scale, worldwide. our patients, shareholders and GSK people.
1Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
2023 performance and key performance indicators
Financial
We delivered strong performance and upgraded our growth outlooks. Broad-based performance drove
sales, profits and earnings growth.
Group turnover (£bn) Turnover by product area (£bn)
l Vaccines
£30.3bn
AER 3% £9.9bn
AER 24% CER 25%
CER 5%
l Specialty Medicines
2021 24.7
£10.2bn
AER (9)% CER (8)%
2022 29.3
l General Medicines
2023 30.3 £10.2bn
2023 growth excluding COVID-19 solutions 12% AER 14% CER
AER 1% CER 5%
Total operating profit (£bn) Adjusted operating profit (£bn)
£6.7bn £8.8bn
AER 5% AER 8%1
CER 10% CER 12%1
2021 4.4 2021 6.5
2022 6.4 2022 8.2
2023 6.7 2023 8.8
2023 growth excluding COVID-19 solutions 12% AER 16% CER
Total continuing earnings per share (p) Adjusted earnings per share (p)
121.6p 155.1p
AER 10% AER 11%2
CER 16% CER 16%2
2021 82.9p 2021 110.3p
2022 110.8p 2022 139.7p
2023 121.6p 2023 155.1p
2023 growth excluding COVID-19 solutions 16% AER 22% CER
Cash generated from operations (£bn) Free cash flow (£bn)
£8.1bn £3.4bn
2021 7.2 2021 3.3
2022 7.9 2022 3.3
2023 8.1 2023 3.4
We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report the performance of our business. Adjusted results and other non-IFRS measures may be considered
in addition to, but not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted results and other non-IFRS measures are
defined on pages 82 and 83. AER – actual exchange rate; CER – constant exchange rate. Excluding COVID-19 solutions as defined on page 85.
(1) Adjusted operating profit +12% (with further positive impact of +4% excluding COVID-19 solutions) at CER.
(2)Adjusted EPS +16% (with further positive impact of +6% excluding COVID-19 solutions) at CER.
Key performance indicator attributable to continuing operations Linked to executive remuneration. See pages 142 to 149 for more details
2Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
2023 performance and key performance indicators continued
Research and development
We continued to strengthen the late-stage pipeline with organic R&D delivery and targeted business
development, supporting future growth.
£10bn 4 18
innovation sales of products major approvals including in infectious assets in phase III/registration
launched or with major lifecycle diseases, HIV and oncology
innovation expansion in the last
five years
71 6 12
assets in the pipeline major business development deals at least 12 major product launches
planned from 20251
Pipeline value and progress are not reported externally because of their commercial sensitivity.
Responsible business
We continue to be recognised for our environmental and sustainability leadership. Our ESG Performance
Rating is on track based on 95% of all performance metrics being met or exceeded. The metrics cover
our six focus areas: access to healthcare, global health and health security, environment , diversity,
equity and inclusion , ethical standards, and product governance (see pages 45 to 55).
1st 11 10%
in the pharmaceuticals industry in the Global Health pipeline assets reduction in operational
S&P Global Corporate Sustainability progressed to address priority World carbon emissions (Scope 1 and 2)
Assessment, with a score of 84 (as of Health Organization (WHO) diseases
24 November 2023)
Culture
Culture progress – ambitious for patients, accountable for impact and do the right thing – is measured
through our employee surveys. Our employee engagement score remained high at 81% in 2023.
+Read more on page 14
(1) Planned launches of products with non-risk adjusted peak year sales of >=£2 billion. See 'Guidance and outlooks, assumptions and basis of
preparation related to 2024 guidance, 2021-26 and 2031 outlooks' on inside back cover and FY 2023 results slides on gsk.com.
3Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Chair's statement
In 2023 GSK continued
to make significant
progress on its strategic
transformation.
The programme of change Emma Growth is being driven by very strong R&D progress
and her team are delivering is performance across all areas of the Executing the company’s late-stage
fundamentally improving GSK’s business, especially Vaccines and pipeline and strengthening our earlier-
competitiveness: sharpening Specialty Medicines, including in HIV stage R&D and technological
operational execution and cost and respiratory, where the company capabilities, remains the company’s
discipline; strengthening the pipeline; has built significant leadership number one priority. This continues to
enhancing the Group’s capital positions and competitive advantage. receive significant attention from the
allocation capacity; and shifting The exceptional launch of the world’s Board, including through our Science
GSK’s culture to combine high integrity first RSV vaccine, Arexvy, in the US was Committee, which undertook detailed
with performance. a clear stand out achievement for the reviews during 2023 of several
year. research areas, including vaccines
As is also clear from this report, GSK is
& RNA technology, antimicrobial
developing a distinctive role and voice Cost discipline across the Group
resistance (AMR). oligonucleotides,
in prevention of disease, offering clear continues to improve. Following
antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs)
benefits to patients, healthcare a period of necessary investment
and liver disease (NASH).
systems and wider society. in product launches, management
is now focused on delivering further Improving R&D productivity is
Strategic progress
improvements in operating margin inevitably a long-term programme.
In 2023, we saw further evidence
over the coming years. But I was pleased to see good
of the success of this transformation.
progress made during the year, both
Operationally, GSK is performing As I have previously discussed,
organically and through targeted
better – and crucially more the demerger of Haleon in 2022
business development. In total we
consistently and competitively – fundamentally reset and strengthened
deployed approximately £2 billion to
than at any point in the last 20 years. GSK’s balance sheet. During 2023 we
R&D business development, including
monetised £1.8 billion of our holding in
Group sales and operating profits acquisitions and partnerships during
Haleon to enable further investment in
grew strongly in 2023 and well ahead the year.
the pipeline and the future growth of
of the outlooks for more than 5 and
the company. As Emma sets out in her letter on
10% CAGR (excluding COVID-19
pages 6 to 7, GSK now has significant
solutions) previously set for the We have also confirmed our
and potentially very valuable late-
period to 2026. GSK’s progress commitment to shareholder returns
stage R&D programmes in vaccines/
and momentum is such that we through a progressive dividend policy.
infectious diseases, HIV, respiratory
have now upgraded these outlooks The Board agreed to pay shareholders
and specific areas of oncology.
to more than 7 and 11%1 respectively. an increased dividend of 58p per
share for 2023, up 3p per share2 on Successful progression of these
a comparable basis. programmes is vital to support the
Group’s growth outlook in the second
half of the decade and beyond.
(1) See 'Guidance and outlooks, assumptions and basis of preparation related to 2024 guidance,
2021-26 and 2031 outlooks' on the inside back cover and FY 2023 results slides on gsk.com
(2)GSK group dividend in 2022 was 55p, this is GSK related only and excludes the dividend related to
Consumer Healthcare in H1 2022.
4Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Chair's statement continued
Culture and responsibility It is clear from the extensive meetings I was also pleased to welcome Julie
I believe that one of the strongest and discussions I have had with Brown as Chief Financial Officer
drivers of GSK’s long-term shareholders over the year, that they (CFO) in May last year. Julie brings
performance is the culture shift that recognise the significant performance huge experience in life sciences and as
Emma and her team are driving. improvements that have been a CFO of large UK-based companies.
delivered. Emphasis has now moved
We are seeing significant change here, The GSK Board now has excellent, in
from the shorter-term outlooks to
with the focus on developing a clear many cases world-leading, experience
2026, to the medium term to 2031.
purpose, strengthening leadership, and expertise including in human
The upgraded outlooks we have given
and embedding business-relevant genetics, vaccines, respiratory and
for both periods show the confidence
values and behaviours. infectious disease; advanced
of the Board and Management in
technologies including in AI and ML;
Ensuring environmental, social and GSK’s future.
biopharma commercial and financial
governance considerations are also
The uncertainty around Zantac expertise and US payer, HCP and
properly embedded into our strategy
(ranitidine) litigation has clearly patient understanding.
remains very important. I was
impacted GSK’s share price
delighted to see the company GSK is performing better than it has
performance over the 18 months.
ranked first in the sector in S&P’s done for many years and has an
We continue to vigorously defend
2023 assessment of Corporate increasingly positive outlook, and this
ourselves against the remaining
Sustainability. is due to the energy, commitment and
claims in the US, including the
leadership of Emma and her team in
GSK also continues to lead in our ongoing proceedings in Delaware
support of the company’s ambitious
approach to ensuring global access and hope to see greater clarity on
programme of change.
to our products and in developing the litigation during 2024.
new medicines and vaccines for Finally, I would also like to thank all
Board evolution
diseases such as malaria and TB of our people, partners, customers
The composition and maturity of the
which disproportionately affect the and shareholders for their support
Board continues to improve to ensure
poorest countries in the world. and commitment through the last year
we have the relevant skills and
and I look forward to another year of
2023 was also the second year of experience to provide good oversight
progress in 2024 for GSK.
operation of our new remuneration and support, and constructively
policy. This is designed to support challenge management as GSK’s
achievement of outperformance business develops as a pure
across strategic, financial and ESG biopharma company.
goals, and I believe it is helping to
I was pleased to welcome Wendy
drive the strong performance
Becker to the Board in October.
culture and deep commitment to Sir Jonathan Symonds
Wendy is a highly experienced
responsibility that is evident at GSK. Chair
non-executive director and brings
Shareholder returns excellent business, technology and
The Board remains focused on life sciences experience.
delivering strong shareholder returns
She will also succeed Urs Rohner
and valuation for GSK over the long
as Chair of the Remuneration
term.
Committee when he steps down
at the May 2024 AGM. I would like
to thank Urs for his contribution to
the GSK Board, particularly the
development of our new
remuneration policy, approved
in 2022, to incentivise and reward
management performance. He has
been a consistent and determined
supporter of GSK and has provided
huge support to Emma and I.
5Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
CEO’s statement
GSK is delivering on
its commitments and
performing to a new
standard.
The excellent performance we Since 2021, we have also added Our shingles vaccine, Shingrix,
delivered in 2023 provides us with multiple new opportunities through also delivered another very strong
clear momentum and we expect to targeted business development, performance in 2023, with £3.4 billion
deliver another year of meaningful securing more than 16 acquisitions of sales. In Specialty Medicines, our
growth in 2024, as we continue to and alliances for innovative assets HIV business grew strongly, up 13%
focus on prevention and changing and new technologies. CER, driven by acceleration in our oral
the course of disease. two-drug and long-acting injectable
We have achieved all of this whilst
regimens for treatment and
Delivering on our commitments maintaining a continued sharp focus
prevention. We also saw good
In 2021, we set out a series of on operating margins and cash flow –
progress in respiratory with our
commitments to shareholders, mindful of the need to both invest for
market-leading IL-5, Nucala, up 18%
including for a 'step-change' in the future and to deliver attractive
CER. Lupus treatment Benlysta was
performance, following the significant returns to shareholders.
also a major contributor up 19% CER.
transformation in GSK’s structure,
Strong 2023 performance Overall, sales from new products
strategy, capital allocation and
As set out on pages 2 to 3, our launched since 2017 contributed more
culture.
performance for 2023 demonstrated than £11 billion.
Since then, we have delivered 10 this progress, with sales excluding
This level of performance helped us to
quarters of consecutive sales growth COVID-19 solutions and both total and
generate free cash flow of £3.4 billion.
(excluding COVID-19 solutions), and adjusted profits growing at double-
As a consequence of this performance
around two-thirds of sales are now digit levels at CER.
and momentum, we were also pleased
generated from Vaccines and
A clear highlight for the year was the to increase the dividend for the year to
Specialty Medicines, a key strategic
exceptional launch of Arexvy, the 58 pence per share.
priority.
world’s first vaccine for RSV, which
Pipeline strengthening
At the same time, we have continued contributed £1.2 billion of sales in its
In R&D, we continued to make
to strengthen our pipeline. We now first year. More than 10% of American
progress in 2023 both organically and
have 71 vaccines and medicines in adults aged 60 years and older have
through business development, as set
clinical development and the majority now been vaccinated against RSV,
out on pages 16 to 30. We delivered
of the late-stage assets we highlighted and over two-thirds of those have
four major product approvals during
in 2021 have moved forward positively. been vaccinated with Arexvy. Over
the year: Arexvy; Apretude in HIV
time we expect Arexvy to generate
prevention; Ojjarra for myelofibrosis
annual sales of more than £3 billion
and Jemperli in first-line endometrial
and 2024 sales to be driven by further
cancer. With 18 assets now in phase III
penetration, initial roll out of the
or registrational studies, we are looking
vaccine in Europe and Japan and
forward to further significant late-
expansion of Arexvy’s indication to at
stage R&D milestones in 2024.
risk individuals aged 50-59 years.
6Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
CEO's statement continued
Targeted business development also Our upgraded outlook for 2021-2026 We have long-term goals and key
continued to strengthen the pipeline is for sales to grow more than 7% and metrics in place for all these areas,
and support future growth. Our activity adjusted profit by more than 11%, on and our overall performance rating for
in 2023 included the acquisition of a CAGR basis. And by 2031, we now 2023 was ‘on track,’ based on 95% of
Bellus Health and Aiolos Bio1, which believe we can deliver more than metrics being met or exceeded.
both further strengthen our respiratory £38 billion of sales. This is an increase Highlights for the year included,
pipeline, and the signing of licence of £5 billion versus the estimate we moving to phase III development for
agreements with Janssen and Hansoh gave in 2021 of more than £33 billion, our low-carbon Ventolin inhaler
Pharma, in infectious diseases and and represents a marked acceleration programme, achieving our leadership
oncology. as, in effect, we now expect to reach diversity aspirations two years early,
our original 2031 goal by 2026, five and Gavi confirming the roll out of our
Upgrading our outlooks
years earlier. malaria vaccine, Mosquirix, in up to 12
In 2024, we expect another year of
countries in Africa. Further details are
meaningful growth of sales, adjusted We will continue to focus strongly on
set out on pages 45 to 55 and in our
operating profit and EPS. We have margin improvements, while retaining
published standalone ESG
also upgraded the outlooks we flexibility to invest in growth. And we
Performance Report.
previously gave for the period will keep working to deliver more, as
2021-2026, and 2031.2 it is important to emphasise that none Clear momentum as we look ahead
of our forecasts include anticipated In conclusion, GSK has strong
This is all because of the progress we
business development, further progress momentum and improving outlooks.
have made to develop our portfolio
in our early-stage pipeline, or As a standalone biopharma company,
and pipeline.
additional productivity improvements. with expertise in developing innovative
Alongside our current growth drivers, vaccines and medicines, we have
All of that points to a strong outlook
we are now planning for at least 12 enormous opportunity to prevent and
for GSK with sustained growth through
major product launches from 2025, change the course of disease for
the decade.
most of which will be in the next four hundreds of millions of people.
years. Building trust
All of this bodes well. Equally, we also
We are committed to making GSK
This includes new potential know there is much to be done. We
a place where talented people can
vaccines for meningitis, influenza, remain very focused on delivering this
thrive, with a culture where we are all
pneumococcal disease and herpes potential – and more – at continued
ambitious for patients, accountable for
simplex virus (HSV); potential pace for patients, for shareholders
impact and do the right thing. It was
medicines for long-acting HIV and for our people.
very positive that engagement scores
treatment and prevention; a potential
remain high, at 81%, in our latest Finally, as ever, it is our people who
functional cure for hepatitis B,
employee engagement survey. fuel this momentum and I want to
bepirovirsen; and a new portfolio of
thank them for all they have achieved
potential anti-infective treatments, Operating responsibly remains core
during 2023. I am very optimistic for
including gepotidacin. We also have to GSK. We aim to continue delivering
the future and excited by what we can
potential new medicines for respiratory sector-leading ESG performance, as
achieve, to get ahead of disease,
diseases with high burden and unmet recognised in our latest ranking as
together.
need: depemokimab and camlipixant. sector leaders of the S&P’s Global
And finally, in oncology, we have Corporate Sustainability Assessment.
further potential indications for This reflects strong progress across our
Jemperli and potentially CD226 six core ESG areas: Access to
targeting a variety of cancer types. healthcare, Global health and health Emma Walmsley
security, Environment, Diversity, Equity Chief Executive Officer
and Inclusion, Ethical standards and
Product governance.
(1) Closed in early 2024.
(2)See 'Guidance and outlooks, assumptions and basis of preparation related to 2024 guidance,
2021-26 and 2031 outlooks' on the inside back cover and FY 2023 results slides on gsk.com
7Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Business model
We unite science, technology and talent to get ahead of disease together for
health impact, shareholder returns and thriving people.
Central to our success are our people: experts in science,
technology, manufacturing, regulation, intellectual property
and commercialisation...
70,200 >75 22,000
GSK people countries worldwide suppliers working directly
with GSK
£6.2bn 37 4
R&D investment in 2023 manufacturing sites global R&D centres in the
– up 13% AER, 14% CER1 US, UK, Belgium and Italy
...who are identifying, researching, developing and
testing ground-breaking discoveries, and manufacturing
and commercialising...
Vaccines Specialty Medicines General Medicines
Our broad vaccines portfolio targets Our specialty medicines prevent We have a portfolio of more than
infectious diseases at every stage of and treat diseases, from HIV and 150 primary care medicines, including
life, helping to protect people from respiratory diseases, to immune- our inhaled medicines for asthma and
meningitis, shingles, RSV, flu, polio inflammation diseases like lupus, to COPD, and antibiotics for infections.
and many more. cancer. Many are first or best-in-class.
...products that prevent and treat disease, improving the
health of millions of people around the world in our core
therapeutic areas...
Infectious diseases HIV Respiratory/ Oncology
Our infectious diseases We are leaders in HIV, immunology We have an emerging
portfolio is the broadest in focused on ending the We’re pushing the frontiers portfolio focused on blood
the industry and, including global epidemic. We of respiratory science and and women's cancers,
HIV, accounts for two thirds have an industry-leading harnessing the science of and are seeking to
of our pipeline. pipeline, driven by patient the immune system to make transformative
insights. transform patient outcomes breakthroughs in
in areas of unmet need, immuno-oncology.
based on decades of
innovative research.
(1) Total R&D expenditure includes intangible asset amortisation and impairments plus immaterial amounts of major restructuring and other costs.
8Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Business model continued
...powered by technology...
Pipeline Performance People and productivity
We are leveraging new platform and We use technology to enable Technology is also core to how we
data technology at every step of the more productive and efficient work. We ensure our people have
R&D process to be faster, more manufacturing processes, supply chain the tools, analytical capabilities
effective, and more predictive in reliability and returns on investment. and resources to make data-driven
discovering and developing innovative decisions and do their best work.
new medicines and vaccines.
...steered by our long-term priorities...
Innovation Performance Trust
We develop and launch new Our bold ambitions for patients are We focus on issues where we can
medicines and vaccines where reflected in our upgraded growth have the greatest impact and reduce
they are needed, with better outlooks to 2026 and 2031. pressure on health systems including
and faster R&D. tackling health challenges and
inequities, protecting the environment
and taking action on diversity, equity
and inclusion.
...and creating value for:
Patients Shareholders Society
2.3bn 58p £1.3bn
packs of medicines and per share dividend corporate income tax paid;
doses of vaccines delivered in addition we pay duties, levies,
transactional and employment taxes
The economy
Disease prevention and earlier intervention to improve health can lessen pressure
on health systems and support economic productivity.
Our people
We support all our people to grow, be well and do work that really matters.
Reinvestment
The returns we make enable us to reinvest in discovering and developing new vaccines
and medicines so we can continue getting ahead of disease.
Company directors are required by law to promote the success of their organisation for the benefit of both shareholders
and their wider stakeholders, including employees, suppliers and the community. Information on the issues, factors and
stakeholders that the Board considers relevant to complying with Section 172 (a) to (f) of the Companies Act 2006 is in the
Section 172 statement of the Corporate governance section on page 123.
+Our business model is supported by our ESG strategy, described on page 46 +Our strategy is supported by a robust framework for monitoring
and managing risk, see page 57
9Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Our external environment
Five major themes influenced our external environment in 2023.
Here, we set out what they mean for us and how we are responding.
Economic growth shows resilience but pressure continues on public finances
The global economy proved to be There were notable pockets of Public spending – including on health
more resilient than expected in 2023. strength. America’s economy grew in – remains under strain. Governments
But the recovery remained relatively 2023, buoyed by sustained consumer face unprecedented pressure on their
fragile and uneven, with prospects spending and robust government finances due to a string of economic
diverging between regions. spending associated with shocks, sustained sluggish growth and
infrastructure investment legislation higher debt. Higher interest rates are
Many countries continued to grapple
passed in 2021 and 2022. But this now making it more challenging to
with persistent inflation, driven by
resilience was not always mirrored service those debts. This is compelling
factors including tight labour markets.
elsewhere. For example, forecasts for governments to make tough choices
Several major central banks
the eurozone were revised downwards, about where to direct spending.
responded by increasing interest rates,
as the region continued to feel the
adding to the burden of rising costs for
impact of weaker demand and
consumers and businesses. Despite
higher costs. 3%
sticky inflation and a consequent
tightening of monetary policy, the Amid rising levels of debt and political
global economy continued to expand, volatility, global growth prospects
albeit at a slower rate. remain tepid. Global growth was forecast
to slow to 3% in 2023.1
Geopolitical tensions fuel shifting alliances
Fragmentation and regionalisation As countries look to diversify and de-
>25%
continued to grow in 2023, with risk their supply chains in strategic
ongoing conflicts in Ukraine and sectors including biopharmaceuticals,
the Middle East focusing ever more many are looking towards India as
attention on political alliances. an alternative supplier to China. In August 2023, six further
Yet against this backdrop, activity in countries were invited to join
Tensions between China and the US
China's biopharmaceutical sector is the BRICS group. The
remained, with new export controls
resilient, recognising the acceleration combined economies of an
and investment screening mechanisms
of Chinese innovation and growth enlarged group would be
emerging on both sides, particularly
potential. worth more than $28.5 trillion
focused on critical minerals, AI,
– more than a quarter of the
semiconductors and biotechnologies. More low and middle-income
world's economy.2
But there were signs of relations countries capitalised on global policy
improving between the two nations, forums, such as the UN General
with their presidents meeting for the Assembly, to set the agenda on issues
first time in a year on the sidelines related to health, new technologies
of the Asia-Pacific Economic and industrial development. With more
Cooperation summit. diverse voices on global platforms,
inequality is seen as a critical issue
New alliances also emerged,
where governments must collectively
potentially shifting the weight and
make progress. In healthcare, there
influence of various blocs. A summit
are debates around the best measure
in August saw the BRICS group of
of widening access, with attention
countries widen its membership, for the
on equitable distribution of the
first time since 2010, inviting six further
infrastructure, capability and know-
countries, including Saudi Arabia and
how to make health products, while
Iran, to join.
protecting intellectual property rights
and efficient supply chains.
(1) https://www.imf.org/en/Blogs/Articles/2023/10/10/resilient-global-economy-still-limping-along-with-growing-divergences.
(2)https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-66525474
10Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Our external environment continued
Changing demographics create opportunity for innovation and prevention
Pressures on health systems continued savings in health systems. The US look to the biopharma industry to be
into 2023 amid ongoing efforts to progressed implementation of the a driver of innovation and economic
recover and rebuild in the aftermath of Inflation Reduction Act (IRA). This growth, with the US President's State
the COVID-19 pandemic. Populations included selecting the first 10 drugs of the Union address underlining an
are ageing, bringing more complex for potential price cuts under a new appetite for more and better
health needs. Chronic diseases are programme enabling Medicare to treatments, particularly in cancer.
taking an increasing toll while infectious negotiate the price of some of the This highlights the potential for the
diseases remain a significant threat. costliest medicines. While this could biopharma industry to be a partner
potentially limit future innovation and in recovery, harnessing science and
The individual impact of changing
access to currently available technology to provide solutions that
demographics and disease patterns
medicines, the IRA does bring help prevent and change the course of
extends to societies and economies at
meaningful benefits to certain disease and bring value to individuals,
large. Poor health is a significant drag
Medicare patients, such as access health systems and societies.
on economic growth. Every year, poor
to vaccines without having to bear
health costs around 15% of global real
part of the cost.
GDP from premature deaths and lost 1.6bn
productive potential among working The EU also took forward legislation
age people1. In the UK alone, 131 that could test pharmaceutical
million working days are estimated innovation and competitiveness. Societies are ageing, bringing
to be lost each year due to illness.2 Meanwhile, the UK agreed a five-year different health challenges.
deal aimed at reducing medicine costs The number of people aged 65
Despite the potential to improve
for the NHS by setting an annual limit years or older worldwide is
individual outcomes and boost
on the allowed growth in sales value of projected to more than double,
economic productivity through
branded medicines. rising from 761 million in 2021
investing in health, particularly through
to 1.6 billion in 2050.3
prevention and earlier intervention, Even as governments sought ways to
governments continued to look for cost cut medicine costs, they continued to
Balancing potential of tech and data with appropriate use
Rapid advances in science and Revolutions in data and technological consider context-specific use of AI in
technology continue to shape the life capabilities open up new possibilities healthcare. The US and the UK
sciences sector and R&D. Established for patients through advances in drug continue to consider how to place
technologies such as small molecules discovery, as well as enhancing appropriate guardrails around the use
and vaccines remain key. Emerging manufacturing and supply of of AI, while supporting innovation and
technologies, such as MAPS and medicines. But the possibilities for considering implications for specific
DNA/RNA therapeutics, including improving health outcomes need to be sectors. At a landmark summit in
oligonucleotides, are gaining ground balanced with appropriate regulation November 2023, the UK, EU, US,
and building market share. Major that supports innovation and ensures Australia and China all agreed to work
biopharma companies continue to responsible use by those who develop together on AI safety research.
increase their focus on artificial the technology, as well as those who
intelligence and machine learning (AI/ use and apply it. During the year, the
ML) to accelerate drug discovery. debate around regulation of AI $45bn
Progress hinges on diverse patient gathered pace as governments
data being available for stepped up their efforts to examine the
computational research, in particular technology’s promise and risks. In the last five years, biopharma
genomic data, linked to health has entered into collaborations
In the first legislation of its kind, the EU
information held in clinical records. with AI companies which are
passed the AI Act in June 2023, taking
estimated to be worth more than
a stringent approach that does not
$45 billion.4
(1) www.mckinsey.com/industries/healthcare/our-insights/how-prioritizing-health-could-help-rebuild-economies
(2)www.cbi.org.uk/media-centre/articles/boosting-workforce-health-can-help-the-uk-achieve-economic-growth-ambitions-says-cbi/
(3)www.un.org/development/desa/dspd/wp-content/uploads/sites/22/2023/01/WSR_2023_Chapter_Key_Messages.pdf - Chapter Key
Messages_WSR 2023 (un.org)
(4)www.accenture.com/content/dam/accenture/final/accenture-com/document-2/Accenture-Tech_Vision_Biopharma_Accenture-Merging
%20atoms%20and%20bits%20in%20Life%20Sciences_V14.pdf
11Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Our external environment continued
Pressure increasing on climate and nature action
Economic pressures and political At the international climate There's also a growing focus on
realignments are influencing how conference COP28 in Dubai, countries limiting nature loss. The Taskforce on
countries approach global challenges committed to transition away from Nature-related Financial Disclosures
that need collective action, including fossil fuels and to triple renewable released its final recommendations in
climate change and nature loss. The energy capacity. It also saw the 2023, providing a risk management
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate climate-health agenda given more and disclosure framework for
Change issued a 'final warning' in prominence than ever before, with 123 organisations to report and act on
March 2023 to keep the 1.5°C degrees governments endorsing the COP28 evolving nature-related risks.
target within reach,1 setting out the Declaration on Climate and Health.
See the Responsible Business section
urgency for sufficient and swift climate
Companies continue to take action to on page 45 and Nature-related
action. Some regions see the need for
reduce their climate impact and protect Financial Disclosures on page 62.
climate action as an opportunity to
their business model, taking steps to
use green policies as a lever for
ensure their products and supply chains
growth. For example, the European 100
remain resilient to the consequences of
Commission set out a Green Deal
climate change. Scientific evidence of
industrial plan to make Europe a
the link between climate change and
centre for clean technology and
human health means we continue to In further evidence of a
innovation.
see high expectations of the healthcare growing investor interest in
But as policy makers tackled rising sector to both reduce carbon emissions nature, ‘Nature Action 100’
inflation and increased living costs, and respond to the health impacts of aims to mobilise institutional
climate targets came under pressure. climate change. During the year, investors to establish a
The UK softened its net zero policies biopharma companies stepped up their common agenda for
and EU environment ministers did not commitments, including to strengthen corporate action on nature. It
increase their target for reducing locally led adaptation and health will focus on eight sectors,
greenhouse gas emissions, after resilience programmes for vulnerable including biotechnology and
opposition from some member communities affected by climate pharmaceuticals.
countries. change.
Our position
In a challenging economic and This includes, for example, advocating Populations are ageing, infectious
political landscape, it's critical that for appropriate IP protections; a diseases are still spreading and
we invest in a pipeline of vaccines balanced regulatory framework that chronic diseases are taking a greater
and medicines that prevent and supports the discovery and delivery of toll. All of this is creating unsustainable
change the course of disease, to vaccines and medicines developed pressure on health systems. More than
meet changing and unmet healthcare through emerging technologies; and ever, we believe that getting ahead of
needs. At the same time, we have to reinforcing the importance of global, disease is the best investment – for
work with governments, regulators and diversified supply chains. patients, carers, communities, health
industry partners to make sure these systems and economies.
As the pricing environment becomes
medicines and vaccines can reach
tougher, we believe we’re well placed We’ll continue to work with
patients at scale, bringing value to
to offer a differentiated, high-value governments, payers and partners
both the people who need them and
pipeline across prevention and to move towards new models of care
to payers.
treatment of disease. This is built on that enable earlier action to prevent,
Scientific innovation is a critical lever using transformational new technology diagnose and treat disease. Together,
to improve health, boost productivity and techniques to make our R&D we have an opportunity to rethink
and economic growth, and ease the faster and smarter. Demand for data health – not just to treat sickness, but
strain on health systems. We continue and real-world evidence to support to invest in keeping people well.
to work with our peers and continued reimbursement of new
governments to make sure that the products is likely to increase.
policy and regulatory environment For more on why and how prevention
We continue to work with payers to
stimulates and sustains innovation. underpins our purpose to get ahead
design innovative solutions that
of disease, see page 13
manage their risk and uncertainty,
while also recognising the full health,
social and economic value of
(1) https://sciencebasedtargets.org/blog/
ipcc-releases-final-warning-to-keep-1-5- innovative medicines and vaccines.
c-within-reach
12Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
At GSK, we believe prevention is the best medicine
Prevention is at the heart of getting ahead of disease – preventing ill health
in the first place and stopping disease in its tracks.
Why is prevention What does prevention mean to us?
important?
Preventing and changing the course opportunity to prevent disease in the
of disease is at the heart of what we first place, as well as change the course
Health systems are stretched
mean by getting ahead of disease of a disease – helping to prevent or
and health needs are evolving
together. By harnessing our science slow progression of an illness and limit
as demographics and disease
and technology, we have an long-term complications.
patterns change.
Prevention is a focus across our pipeline and portfolio including:
>3 million
Vaccines
premature deaths among
We’ve built one of the broadest vaccine portfolios
people under 75 could have
in the industry to help protect people at all stages of life,
been avoided through better
from childhood to older age. With our wide range of
prevention and healthcare
vaccine technologies like MAPS, mRNA and adjuvants,
interventions across OECD
we can take a targeted approach, allowing us to develop
countries in 2019. This amounts
tailored vaccines for different diseases and individuals –
to over a quarter of all deaths.
see page 18.
(source: OECD)
HIV
$1 trillion
For decades, we’ve transformed the lives of people living
with HIV by making breakthroughs in treatment and
loss in productivity each year prevention. We’re focusing research on novel treatment
in the G20 from preventable options that allow people living with HIV to take fewer
conditions among people drugs or take them much less often, and we’ve also
aged 50-64. (source: ilcuk) developed a long-acting regimen that can prevent HIV
– see page 22.
$7 trillion
Severe asthma
In the US alone, health spending Our decades of experience in respiratory care have
is projected to reach almost led us to create treatments that could bring patients
$7 trillion by 2030. (source: CMS) closer than ever before to remission for severe asthma.
This could free them from exacerbations (attacks) that
cause cumulative lung damage and could potentially
Prevention and earlier avoid hospitalisation – removing the need for oral
intervention offer a solution corticosteroids, stabilising lung function and controlling
to these challenges, helping symptoms – see page 23.
to improve people's health
outcomes – and bring benefits Hepatitis B
to health systems and
Using the latest AI/ML techniques, our scientists have
economies.
identified biomarkers to help work out which treatment
combinations fit which patients. This potentially
$12 trillion
increases the likelihood of achieving 'functional cure'
– when the virus is no longer present in the blood, and
liver functions have normalised, stopping any future
could be added to global GDP
damage – see page 19.
by 2040 by improving health.
Around half of the annual
economic benefits would come We believe that preventing and We want to work with patients, policy
from a larger and healthier getting ahead of disease is the best makers and our peers to stop disease in
investment for everyone – for patients, its tracks, creating the right conditions
workforce. (source: McKinsey)
carers, communities, health systems to champion prevention and enable
and economies. timely, proactive access to preventative
interventions.
13Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Our culture and people
Our purpose – to unite science, technology and talent to get Ahead
of disease Together – puts our people at the heart of our success.
Our culture Digital and technology remain core to our purpose and
delivery of our ambitions. We have built our people's skills
We are committed to making GSK a place where people
in this area with global events such as DataCon, where all
can thrive, with a culture where we are all ambitious for
employees can experience immersive sessions to see first-
patients, accountable for impact, and do the right thing.
hand how to apply digital, data and tech tools including
This means we support our people to do things better and
generative AI to become more digitally fluent. This year,
faster, focusing on what matters most. It means setting clear
more than 7,000 employees took part from every business
objectives, creating accountability for results and giving
unit and 28 countries. In our Data Academy, employees
everyone the support and space they need to succeed.
can access resources and online training. We've run
It means doing everything responsibly with integrity and
programmes to develop our senior leaders' leadership
care, because people and patients around the world count
skills in the digital age. We've also piloted a career hub
on us. Our culture is embedded in everything we do from
using AI to match employees with mentors, projects and
our recruitment and onboarding, training and development,
potential job opportunities. We will scale this up in 2024.
to our assessments of performance and promotion.
In 2023, we enhanced our onboarding experience for new
Our Code sets out our culture as well as the commitments
joiners by introducing monthly live virtual sessions with our
GSK and our people make so we can deliver on our
CEO and other senior leaders. By having access to senior
ambition in the right way. Our people sign up to
global leaders from the beginning of their career with us,
The Code annually and personally commit ‘I’m in’.
we aim to provide a more intimate connection to GSK and
+See The Code on gsk.com1 the patients we serve, creating emotional connection with
our purpose, strategy and culture, to complement ongoing
Helping people thrive local onboarding activities.
Making GSK a place where people thrive is core to our
Supporting our people managers
Ahead Together ambition. While thriving is different for
each individual, there are common themes that matter Our people managers play a crucial role in helping their
to everyone. Firstly, a belief in our purpose and a desire to teams to thrive and connecting the contributions the team
live our culture and contribute to delivering our ambition. makes to the patient and GSK's broader impact. We expect
Secondly, feeling included and able to be yourself with people managers to motivate, focus, care for and develop
opportunities to keep growing, with the support, feedback their teams and we deliver training anchored in these four
and space needed to succeed. And finally, feeling good, areas. In 2023 all of our VPs were invited to attend a four
with positive mental, physical, financial and social wellbeing. day in-person event called Leading Leaders, a programme
This means GSK should be a place where people feel to help leaders bring out the best in their teams and foster
welcome and valued, in an environment (including our the culture we need to succeed together. We also continue
policies, workplaces and ways of working) that enables and to invest in growing the next generation of senior leaders to
supports them to deliver at their best. support our talent and succession needs through bespoke
development interventions, equipping them with leadership
Welcoming and developing outstanding people skills for the future.
We are committed to developing outstanding people and
giving them opportunities to grow. We expect all our people
to have an agreed development plan, regardless of grade
or role, based on a conversation to understand what space
and support they need to succeed. We continue to invest in
learning and development initiatives which everyone can
access through our Keep Growing Campus, our training
and knowledge sharing platform.
(1) https://www.gsk.com/en-gb/company/governance/compliance/#the-code
14Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Our culture and people continued
Maintaining momentum on diversity, equity Performance with Choice
and inclusion Performance with Choice, our approach to hybrid working
We are continuing our focus on building a more diverse for those in office-based roles (about a quarter of our
organisation and an equitable and inclusive culture so that people), allows the right balance of on-site and remote
everyone feels welcome, valued and included. By taking working. We are clear in our expectations that people take
steps to ensure equal opportunity and non-discrimination, accountability to spend enough time together in person,
we are delivering on our ambition to make our leadership while maintaining flexibility, to help us continue to build
and teams more diverse and inclusive. We support our sense of community and connectedness, enable
development for all with numerous offerings for our development and achieve our Ahead Together ambitions.
employees, including an award-winning leadership Data from our annual employee survey shows broad
development programme, Accelerating Difference. support for our approach and expectations.
Also, all our people complete a mandatory DEI module
Recognising and rewarding our people
as part of our annual training, this year focused on how to
create an inclusive workplace so all our people can thrive. Sharing our success and recognising and rewarding our
people equitably, not just on the progress we have made
For more details on our DEI aspirations, see the Responsible but how we have made it, continues to be an important part
Business section on page 52. of our culture. In addition to our bonus scheme that rewards
performance across the company, each year we award
Health, wellbeing and volunteering
10% of our people with extra ‘Ahead Together’ awards for
Our health and wellbeing benefits support people through
delivering exceptional performance in line with being
different life stages and are fair and inclusive. These include:
accountable for their impact, ambitious for patients and
a global minimum standard of 18 weeks’ parental leave
doing the right thing. And we identify 5% of people as
for primary and secondary carers for all forms of family, a
having missed performance for those not delivering on
global minimum standard for care of a family member for
their objectives or living the culture.
end of life or serious health emergencies, insured benefits
to include same-sex partners wherever possible, and mental How our people experience GSK
health training – available to everyone. We have also To ensure we continue to listen to our people, we regularly
enhanced our financial wellbeing support for employees by measure their experience of GSK as a place to work.
introducing the ‘nudge’ financial education platform in over This includes an annual survey for all employees featuring
50 countries, helping people manage their finances and questions on engagement, confidence, inclusivity, our
achieve their financial goals. culture focus areas and trust priorities. We are proud
In 2023 we reignited volunteering across the company, that our engagement levels remained high at 81% in 2023.
focused on our ambition and charitable investment themes We also continue to see high scores with positive upward
(Health for people, Health for the planet, Innovators for trends in confidence in delivery of our strategy and our
the future). All employees can volunteer for one or two culture focus areas – ambitious for patients, accountability
days each year by taking part in team-based hands-on for impact and doing the right thing – as well as measures
‘Together Days’ or through skills-based volunteering. A of inclusion. In 2023 we expanded analysis of the survey
smaller number of people can volunteer up to four days to understand differences in employee experience across
each year for selected skills-based volunteering projects. diverse characteristics. We continue to make good progress
in creating a culture and workplace where people feel a
sense of belonging and can thrive.
To measure the effectiveness of our global managers, their
teams provide feedback through an annual One80 survey
and managers receive anonymised aggregate feedback.
In 2023, 78% of our managers were rated as highly effective
by their teams.
15Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Research and We combine the science of the
immune system with technology
and outstanding talent to find
development
new ways to prevent and treat
the most challenging diseases,
better and faster.
16Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Research and development
Highlights
71 18 4
vaccines and medicines in phase III/registration major approvals
in the pipeline
–Arexvy, the world’s first RSV vaccine for older –Shingrix vaccine for shingles approved for
adults, approved in the US, EU and Japan people at risk over 18 in Japan and positive
data from first efficacy trial in adults aged 50
–Apretude, long-acting preventative treatment
and over in China
for HIV, approved as the first and only HIV
prevention option in Europe –Positive phase III data for our MenABCWY
vaccine candidate, supporting filing in 2024
–Ojjaara/Omjjara approved in the US, EU and
UK as the first and only treatment for both –US FDA Fast-Track designation for gonorrhoea
newly diagnosed and previously treated vaccine candidate
myelofibrosis patients with anaemia
–Targeted business development including
–Jemperli approved in the US, EU and UK acquisition of Bellus Health and Aiolos Bio1
as the only frontline immuno-oncology (respiratory), licence agreements with Janssen
treatment, in combination with chemotherapy, (infectious diseases) and Hansoh Pharma
for patients with dMMR/MSI-H primary (oncology)
advanced or recurrent endometrial cancer
Our R&D approach Focusing on execution, technology and culture
Our R&D purpose is to unite science, technology and talent Our priorities in R&D are:
to get ahead of disease. This is how we discover and
–execution, to accelerate our pipeline, including with
develop the vaccines and medicines that will transform
business development, to deliver innovative vaccines
people’s lives.
and medicines, see page 18
In 2023, our R&D expenditure was £6.2 billion, up 13% AER
–technology, to deliver more innovation, better and faster,
and 14% CER on 2022, driven by investment across the
using new platform and data technologies that speed
portfolio. We’ve also strengthened our pipeline and
discovery and development and improve the chance
technology capabilities through business development,
of success, see page 27
seeking out new, differentiated opportunities in diseases
with high patient need. We now have 19 vaccines and 52 –culture, to create an agile, innovative environment that’s
medicines in development, many with the potential to be ambitious for patients and attracts the best people,
first-in-class or best-in-class. scientists and partners, see page 29.
In a revolutionary era of science and technology, we’re
making the most of rapid advances to drive the discovery
and development of vaccines and medicines. Across our For more on why and how prevention
pipeline, we consider not just how we can prevent disease in underpins our purpose to get ahead
the first place, but also intervene and treat earlier to change of disease, see page 13
its course, preventing or slowing progression of an illness
and limiting longer-term complications.
(1) Closed in early 2024.
17Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Research and development continued
Execution
Pipeline acceleration and business development for In 2023, we reinforced our status as a world leader in
transformational vaccines and medicines. infectious diseases. We gained approvals in the US, EU
and Japan for our world-first respiratory syncytial virus
Our broad portfolio and pipeline, based on the science of
(RSV) vaccine for older adults, Arexvy, and in Japan for
the immune system and the use of new platform and data
our shingles vaccine, Shingrix, for people at risk over 18.
technologies, continues to strengthen, with key milestones
across our core therapeutic areas in 2023. This positive In HIV, we’re reshaping treatment and prevention by
momentum, together with further business development, delivering long-acting regimens, such as Apretude,
underpins our confidence in delivering our upgraded growth approved in Europe for HIV prevention in 2023. In oncology,
outlooks for the medium and long term. we’re optimising our portfolio, focusing on blood and
women's cancers, and breakthroughs in immuno-oncology.
Across all phases, our pipeline now has 71 vaccines and
In 2023, there were approvals for Ojjaara, the first treatment
medicines. More than 70% modulate the immune system
specifically indicated for myelofibrosis patients with
and a similar proportion are based on genetic evidence.
anaemia and Jemperli, our frontline treatment for
In 2023, we began eight phase I programmes, moved endometrial cancer. We also had positive phase III results
14 assets into phase II and three into phase III. Since 2016 for Blenrep, our treatment for multiple myeloma.
our development cycle times have shortened by 20%, or
Business development is a critical contributor to growth,
3.7 years, with a median of 9.6 years, compared to the
creating extra value for patients, partners and shareholders.
industry's 11.4 years.
Major deals include our acquisition of Bellus Health and
We’re investing heavily in our late-stage pipeline to Aiolos Bio1 and new collaborations including with Janssen
drive growth in line with our therapeutic area strategies. and Hansoh Pharma which we believe will bolster our
We rigorously evaluate our early-stage portfolio to back existing strengths across our therapeutic areas.
the right programmes to maximise our impact on health
We focus on four therapeutic areas:
and unlock pipeline value.
–infectious diseases, see below
Reflecting our progress in 2023, we are now planning for
at least 12 major product launches from 2025. –HIV, see page 22
–respiratory/immunology, see page 23
–oncology, see page 25.
Infectious diseases
Infectious diseases affect everyone, everywhere, For over 70 years, we’ve pioneered novel research methods
putting a major strain on societies and healthcare systems. and technologies to help protect people against infectious
Our combined expertise in vaccines and medicines means diseases including: chronic infections (hepatitis B, HIV,
we can focus on both prevention and treatment of shingles), seasonal infections (RSV, influenza), common
infectious diseases, resulting in significant public health childhood diseases (measles), rare but devastating
benefits, reduced deaths and increased productivity. Two conditions (meningitis) and a range of bacterial infections
thirds of the vaccines and medicines in our pipeline address made more challenging by antimicrobial resistance (AMR);
infectious diseases (including HIV), and we’re a world as well as diseases which predominantly affect lower-
leader in this area. income countries (malaria, TB, rotavirus). Of the more
than 2.5 billion people we reach this decade, a significant
–Infectious diseases are responsible for an estimated
majority will be through our infectious disease portfolio,
one in six deaths globally.
which is the broadest in the industry.
–Around one billion people are infected every year by
In 2023, key highlights have included approvals for Arexvy,
viruses like RSV, influenza virus and SARS-CoV-2 and
our world-first RSV vaccine for adults aged 60 and above,
many need hospital treatment.
and positive phase III data for our pentavalent meningitis
–Millions more struggle with bacterial and fungal infections vaccine candidate.
or live with chronic viral conditions like hepatitis B (hep B)
and HIV.
–Vaccine-preventable diseases impose significant medical
and economic costs related to treatment and to cover
resulting productivity losses.
(1) Closed in early 2024.
18Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Research and development continued
Tackling RSV with the world's first Arexvy vaccine in immunity that can make protecting older people from
infectious diseases challenging.
–Around 470,000 older people each year face hospital
stays because of RSV. In 2023, Shingrix was approved in Japan for the prevention
of shingles in people over 18 at increased risk, for instance
–People with underlying conditions like chronic obstructive
due to immune suppression or immune deficiency. The
pulmonary disease (COPD), asthma, diabetes and heart
vaccine has been approved in Japan for people aged
disease are at increased risk of the severe outcomes of
50 and older since 2018. The latest approval followed six
RSV, such as pneumonia.
clinical trials with people aged 18 or older at increased risk
–Around 14,000 people a year die from RSV in the US, of shingles, including those who had undergone stem cell
and in the EU the figure is closer to 20,000. transplants or kidney transplants, or who had blood cancer,
solid tumours or HIV. A regulatory application for this
In 2023, Arexvy was approved in the US, EU, Japan and
patient group was also accepted for review by the China
several other countries for the prevention of lower
National Medical Products Administration in February 2024.
respiratory tract disease caused by RSV in adults aged 60
and older. This followed positive phase III data published In 2023, we reported data from the first-ever efficacy trial of
in the New England Journal of Medicine which showed Shingrix in China, which demonstrated 100% vaccine efficacy.
exceptional efficacy in older people, including those with These results come from the phase IV trial (ZOSTER-076),
certain underlying medical conditions, and against severe which evaluated the efficacy and safety of the vaccine in
RSV. In 2023, we reported data from season two of our preventing shingles in adults aged 50 and older.
ongoing phase III trial showing vaccine efficacy over two
Progressing towards a 5-in-1 meningitis vaccine
complete RSV seasons. The clinical development
programme will continue to evaluate longer-term follow-up –Around 1.2 million people contract invasive
and the optimal timing for potential revaccination. meningococcal disease (IMD) each year, and one in six
people diagnosed with it will die.
In the US, following approval by the US Food and Drug
Administration (FDA), the US Centers for Disease Control –At least one in five IMD survivors will have long-term
and Prevention’s Advisory Committee on Immunisation disabilities including brain damage, deafness and nervous
Practices recommended that adults 60 years of age and system problems.
older may receive a single dose of the vaccine using shared
Our meningitis ACWY vaccine Menveo and meningitis B
clinical decision-making.
vaccine Bexsero together protect against most forms of
Arexvy is now available across the US, Canada and multiple IMD. Our first-generation 5-in-1 vaccine candidate
European countries. Regulatory reviews in other countries combines these vaccines, aiming to protect against the
are ongoing, with approvals and launches expected serotypes that cause most disease globally in a single
throughout 2024 and beyond. vaccine. In 2023, we presented preliminary phase III data
to the European Society for Paediatric Infectious Diseases
In 2023, we also reported positive preliminary data from a
showing the vaccine candidate performed statistically as
clinical trial in people aged 50 to 59 at increased risk of RSV
well as Bexsero and Menveo in people aged 10 to 25. It’s
showing non-inferior immune responses compared to adults
currently the only investigational 5-in-1 vaccine with data
aged 60 and older. Based on these data, in February 2024,
to show immunological effectiveness against 110 diverse
the US FDA accepted a regulatory application under
meningitis B invasive strains in a trial.
Priority Review to extend the vaccine's indication for adults
aged 50-59 at increased risk. Regulatory submissions for Multivalent vaccines of this kind have the potential to
adults aged 50-59 were also accepted by the European support the WHO's strategy to eradicate meningitis by
Medicines Agency and the Japanese Ministry of Health, 2030. We also have a second generation 5-in-1 vaccine in
Labour and Welfare. In 2024, we expect to generate further phase II development, which aims to improve protection
data in people aged 18 and older at increased risk of RSV, against B strains in broader age groups.
as well as from trials exploring co-administration with other
Trials for our investigational medicine for chronic
adult vaccines including for shingles and pneumococcal
disease. hepatitis B (CHB)
–Around 300 million people are living with CHB.
Expanding the use of our shingles vaccine
–One in three people develop shingles in their lifetime, –Only about 10% of these people have a diagnosis, 5%
sometimes with serious consequences like long-term receive treatment and almost a million die each year.
nerve pain and loss of vision. –Currently, patients take nucleoside/nucleotide analogues
Shingrix, our vaccine to protect people from shingles, has (NA), often for life, because they suppress the virus but
launched in 40 countries for people over 50 and for people rarely clear it.
over 18 at increased risk of shingles. Shingrix was specifically
For 35 years, we’ve been a leader in hepatitis B vaccination.
designed to combine one of our adjuvants with an antigen
Bepirovirsen, our triple-action antisense oligonucleotide, has
selected to enhance a protective immune response, based
the potential to be the cornerstone of functional cure for
on our understanding of the virus that causes shingles. This
patients with CHB. It could eliminate the need for continued
formulation helps overcome the natural age-related decline
therapy, ultimately reducing the long-term risk of developing
liver complications.
19Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Research and development continued
Hope against hepatitis B
'I didn’t know anything about hepatitis B until after
my husband and I adopted our daughter, Maren,
when she was just a few months old,' said Maureen,
a hepatitis B caregiver and advocate.
'My heart broke as I watched my baby cry while
receiving the injections and endure the resulting
side effects.
There is no doubt that chronic hepatitis B can be
scary – and the stigma makes it more so, but it
doesn’t have to be a lifelong burden – there is
reason for hope.
I’m energised by ongoing research into new
treatment options that could alleviate the burden
of frequent and often invasive treatments for the
management of chronic hepatitis B. There are
people, including scientists at GSK, who are
working towards finding a functional cure.' Maureen and Maren
Bepirovirsen is the only single agent in phase III development MAPS potentially enables higher antibody responses
that has shown a clinically meaningful functional cure against more disease-causing serotypes for broader and
response for patients with CHB receiving NA therapy, stronger protection (see page 27). We continue to examine
as demonstrated in the B-Clear and B-Sure clinical trials. potential acceleration options in the 24- and 30-plus valent
As well as developing bepirovirsen in our phase III trials programmes for infants and adults.
for patients receiving NAs, we are also exploring potential
Herpes simplex virus
sequential therapy options with the aim of helping more
–Genital herpes is a chronic sexually transmitted infection
patients achieve functional cure.
caused by herpes simplex type 1 (HSV-1) and herpes
In October 2023 we announced an exclusive licence simplex type 2 (HSV-2) viruses.
agreement for a phase II small interfering RNA-based
–Worldwide, an estimated 683 million people aged 15 to 49
therapeutic, originally developed by Arrowhead
are living with HSV-2 or genital HSV-1 infection.
Pharmaceuticals. This provides a further opportunity
to develop a potential novel sequential regimen to –Many patients suffer frequent outbreaks along with
benefit a broader group of patients and potentially psychological morbidity, stigma and a threefold increase
drive higher functional cure rates. in the risk of acquiring HIV.
Other infectious diseases GSK 3943104 is our candidate against HSV that contains
Pneumococcal disease HSV antigens complemented with an adjuvant, designed to
stimulate immune responses in people already infected with
–Pneumococcal disease is the name for any illness caused
HSV. Following the successful completion of a phase I first-
by the Streptococcus pneumoniae bacterium, which is a
time-in-humans study, a phase II first-time-in-patients proof
leading cause of acute bacterial diseases and an
of concept trial started in late 2023 and is assessing two
important area of growing antimicrobial resistance.
formulations in adults with a history of genital herpes
–Multiple licensed pneumococcal vaccines are available, outbreaks. If successful, we hope that this could help better
however the burden of pneumococcal disease remains control symptomatic outbreaks and viral shedding while
significant. mitigating the associated emotional burden and improving
quality of life for people living with genital herpes.
–In the US alone, it is estimated that pneumococcal
pneumonia causes 150,000 hospitalisations every year. Influenza
–The WHO estimates that about one million children die –Influenza remains one of the world’s greatest public
of pneumococcal disease every year. health challenges.
Our novel 24-valent vaccine candidate (currently in phase II –Every year, there are an estimated one billion cases
development) and 30 plus-valent pneumococcal vaccine around the world, many resulting in severe illness
candidate (currently in pre-clinical development), added to and death.
our pipeline through our 2022 acquisition of Affinivax, both
incorporate innovative MAPS platform technology.
20Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Research and development continued
Our adjuvanted pandemic influenza vaccine has been Moving towards a potential treatment for uncomplicated
extensively studied and consists of egg-based antigen and urinary tract infections and urogenital gonorrhoea
pandemic adjuvant AS03. We have agreements with the –Over half of women are affected by uncomplicated
US, Canada, Europe and the WHO to provide at least 200 urinary tract infections (uUTI) in their lifetime, with
million doses of pandemic influenza vaccine in the event over a quarter suffering recurring disease.
of a global health emergency.
–Despite concern over rising resistance to existing
Egg-based influenza vaccines are the backbone of treatments, there’s been no new class of antibiotics
worldwide efforts to limit the impact of seasonal influenza. in uUTI for over two decades.
Different platforms and technologies will continue to be
Our investigational antibiotic gepotidacin is a novel
needed in the future and we’re committed to playing our
mechanism triazaacenaphthylene antibiotic for uUTI
part in meeting an important patient need.
and gonorrhoea, discovered and developed by us, and
We’re exploring opportunities to develop mRNA-based part-funded by our partnership with the US Biomedical
influenza vaccines through our collaboration with CureVac. Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA).
Building on positive phase I results for modified monovalent In 2023, positive phase III data showed it has the potential
mRNA vaccine candidates that target COVID-19 and to be the first in a new class of oral antibiotics for uUTI in
monovalent flu, we’re developing a next-generation over 20 years. In the EAGLE-2 and EAGLE-3 phase III trials,
multivalent mRNA flu vaccine to protect against multiple which were stopped early for efficacy in November 2022
influenza virus strains. Phase I/II trials are underway. following a planned interim analysis, gepotidacin performed
as well as nitrofurantoin, an existing first-line treatment for
COVID-19
uUTI. In the EAGLE-3 trial, gepotidacin demonstrated
Now that the acute phase of the COVID-19 pandemic
statistically significant superiority over nitrofurantoin.
is over, our focus is on next-generation platforms and
combination vaccines that have the potential to protect Treating complicated urinary tract infections with
against multiple seasonal respiratory viruses. In 2023, our tebipenem
COVID-19 mRNA development programme with CureVac Through our partnership with Spero Therapeutics, Inc.,
progressed to a phase II clinical trial and we recently we have an exclusive licence agreement for tebipenem HBr,
reported positive interim data for both the monovalent a late-stage oral carbapenem antibiotic with the potential
and bivalent vaccine candidates. to treat complicated urinary tract infections (cUTIs). In
December 2023, the first patient was dosed in PIVOT-PO,
Human papillomavirus
our pivotal phase III trial for tebipenem. If approved,
Human papillomavirus (HPV) is a common sexually
tebipenem HBr will address an unmet medical need
transmitted infection affecting around 14 million people
for a novel oral antibiotic as an alternative to intravenous
a year in the US alone. It often has no symptoms but can
hospital therapy for drug-resistant cUTIs.
cause genital warts and several types of cancer. HPV is
associated with nearly all (99%) cases of cervical cancer, Vulvovaginal candidiasis
which is the fourth most common cancer among women In 2023, we also signed an exclusive licence agreement with
globally and causes an estimated 342,000 deaths each Scynexis to develop and further commercialise Brexafemme,
year. HPV also accounts for about 5% of all cancers a US FDA-approved first-in-class antifungal treatment for
worldwide, including 90% of anal cancers and 70% of vulvovaginal candidiasis (VVC) and for reducing the
oropharyngeal cancers. We’re working with Innovax on incidence of recurrent VVC. Brexafemme complements
a next-generation adjuvanted vaccine to protect against gepotidacin and tebipenem, and reinforces our
more types of HPV. commitment to developing new antibiotic and antifungal
treatments in areas of high unmet medical need.
Antibiotics and antimicrobial resistance
Fast-tracking our gonorrhoea vaccine
Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is one of the world’s top
10 health threats. It’s estimated that, without action, AMR, –Gonorrhoea is the second-most prevalent bacterial
including antifungal resistance, could contribute to 10 million sexually transmitted infection worldwide, with an
deaths per year by 2050 and cause an economic loss of estimated 82 million new cases each year.
£100 trillion. Across our medicines and vaccines pipeline,
–AMR to gonorrhoea has increased over the past 80 years,
we have more than 30 projects relevant to AMR, 12 of them
rendering many classes of antibiotics to treat the disease
targeting pathogens deemed ‘critical’ or ‘urgent’ by the
ineffective and making a vaccine even more important to
WHO.
the global effort to tackle AMR.
Our investigational Neisseria gonorrhoeae (NgG) vaccine,
based on our generalised modules for membrane antigens
(GMMA) technology, aims to protect people aged 16 and
older. Currently in an ongoing phase I/II efficacy trial, NgG
received a Fast-Track designation from the US FDA in 2023,
accelerating its path to FDA submission. .
21Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Research and development continued
HIV
For decades, we’ve transformed the lives of people living Transforming patients’ lives with
with HIV by making breakthroughs in treatment and long-acting regimens
prevention. Our work to develop long-acting injectable
Cabenuva (cabotegravir; rilpivirine) is the world’s first and
medicines means that many only need therapy a few times
only complete long-acting injectable regimen to treat HIV.
a year, instead of once a day.
It means some patients have treatment only six times a year
–The WHO estimates there were approximately 1.3 million instead of taking medicine orally every day. Our SOLAR
new HIV infections globally in 2022, with the burden study data, announced in 2023, showed Cabenuva is as
greatest in sub-Saharan Africa. effective as daily Biktarvy tablets for treating HIV. The 12-
month findings also showed that nine out of ten participants
–In the US, about two-thirds of people living with HIV are
switching from Biktarvy to Cabenuva preferred the long-
virally suppressed and there were more than 36,000 new acting regimen.
diagnoses in 2021.
Apretude (long-acting cabotegravir), launched in 2022, is
–There remains a pressing need for new approaches to the world’s first and only long-acting injectable pre-exposure
treatment and prevention. prophylaxis (PrEP) to reduce the risk of sexually transmitted
HIV. Two large phase III studies demonstrated that Apretude
We work on HIV through ViiV Healthcare, which we
was superior to daily oral PrEP (TDF/FTC) in men and
majority own, with Pfizer and Shionogi as shareholders.
women. And, in the open label phase, when given the choice,
ViiV Healthcare is the only company that is 100% focused
the majority of study participants chose Apretude over oral
on the treatment and prevention of HIV. Our goal is to
TDF/FTC.
leave no person living with HIV behind.
The European Commission authorised Apretude in 2023 in
We’ve focused research on transforming the experience
injectable and tablet form. This followed a positive opinion
of people living with HIV through novel treatment options
from the European Medicines Agency's (EMA) Committee
that allow them to take fewer drugs or take them much less
for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP). Apretude
often. We’ve also developed a long-acting regimen that can
is also approved in Australia and South Africa, among
prevent HIV.
many others.
Looking to the future of long-acting treatment
and prevention
Through a new formulation (reformulated CAB), we’re
now focused on progressing to injectable doses every
four months, doubling today’s interval for cabotegravir
for treatment and PrEP, which would halve visits to the
clinic to three times a year.
The 40-year fight against HIV
The official start of the AIDS epidemic is considered to
be June 1981, when the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly
Report noticed that a rare pneumonia was being seen
in previously healthy men who have sex with men.
It would be several years before HIV was identified as
the underlying cause. Marty St Clair and other
scientists at Burroughs Wellcome – a predecessor
company to GSK – urgently began a search for a
potential new medicine to treat HIV and AIDS. The
group went on to develop Zidovudine, the first
medicine, which was approved in the US in 1987.
Nearly 40 years on, Marty continues to work to treat
and prevent HIV transmission in her role as clinical
director for ViiV Healthcare. She is optimistic about
the outlook for innovation in HIV.
'We’ve pretty much given people their lives back,' said
Marty. 'It’s a hopeful time.'
ViiV Positive Action outreach
22Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Research and development continued
We aim to make this a reality for prevention by 2026, with Moving towards self-injected long-acting
a registrational study starting in 2024. For treatment, we aim treatment
to deliver by 2027, by evaluating possible combinations of
Our other main aim is to develop the world’s first long-
reformulated CAB with rilpivirine or our broadly neutralising
acting treatment that people living with HIV can inject
antibody, N6LS. In 2023, we completed a study that
themselves. This will allow individuals to dose at home and
combined N6LS with Halozyme’s recombinant
reduce the number of clinic visits. We are targeting dosing
hyaluronidase (PH20) technology, which allows delivery
every two to three months, with efficacy and tolerability
of a larger volume of drug through subcutaneous dosing.
similar to Cabenuva.
This showed it’s possible to deliver a single subcutaneous
dose that’s well-tolerated and can last up to four months. In short, our goal is to develop new agents for HIV treatment
and prevention that reduce the burden of treatment and
Beyond this, six-monthly doses are our goal by the end
allow people to have improved quality of life.
of the decade by partnering our new integrase inhibitors,
VH184 or VH310, with new-mechanism-of-action agents
such as capsid inhibitors.
Respiratory/immunology
We’ve been leaders in delivering medicines that help Nucala is a first-in-class anti-IL5-biologic (monoclonal
manage asthma and COPD for over 50 years. Our research antibody) that targets and directly inhibits IL-5. It is the only
looks to harness the science of the immune system to treatment in the US and Europe with indications in four IL-5
develop medicines that reduce signs and symptoms of mediated diseases: severe asthma with an eosinophilic
disease, address treatment resistance and slow the phenotype, CRSwNP, EGPA and HES. In 2023, the Japanese
progression of immune-mediated conditions. These include Ministry of Labour, Health and Welfare accepted for review
lupus, severe asthma with an eosinophilic phenotype and a supplementary new drug application for Nucala to treat
CRSwNP in adults. This submission is based on data from
other inflammatory diseases. We help millions of people
the pivotal phase III MERIT trial studying the safety and
with respiratory and immune conditions worldwide with
efficacy of Nucala in people with CRSwNP.
our current portfolio.
In January 2024, the China National Medical Products
Advancing the science and treatment of IL-5
Administration approved Nucala as an add-on maintenance
mediated diseases
treatment for severe asthma with an eosinophilic phenotype.
For more than 25 years we have been leaders in researching Nucala is the first targeted IL-5 treatment in China for adult
the roles that eosinophils (a type of white blood cell) and and adolescent patients with the condition.
interleukin-5 (IL-5) play in health and disease.
Depemokimab is our novel monoclonal antibody developed
–Eosinophil-driven diseases are associated with for its affinity for IL-5 and long-acting inhibition of the IL-5
heightened levels of eosinophils. When eosinophils pathological process, which includes suppression of
infiltrate certain tissues, they can cause inflammation and eosinophil activity. It is the first potential ultra-long-acting
organ damage which, over time, can affect patients’ day- anti-IL-5 biologic that treats a range of IL-5 mediated
to-day life. diseases. Our phase III programme continues to make
progress across diseases including severe asthma, CRSwNP,
–IL-5 is the major cytokine responsible for the proliferation,
HES and EGPA.
activation and survival of eosinophils, making it a proven
treatment target for patients with higher levels of Currently, approved IL-5 inhibitors are dosed every four or
eosinophils. eight weeks, while depemokimab is designed to be
administered every six months, addressing the challenges
–IL-5 mediated conditions encompass a range of diseases
commonly associated with more frequent dosing including
for which there have been few, if any, effective treatments.
adherence anxiety and emotional burden.
These include respiratory conditions like severe asthma
with an eosinophilic phenotype, COPD and chronic Reaching a broader range of asthma patients
rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP), and rarer
In early 2024, we acquired Aiolos Bio, Inc. The acquisition
conditions like eosinophilic granulomatosis with
adds AIO-001, a phase II-ready, long-acting antibody that
polyangiitis (EGPA) or hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES).
targets the clinically validated TSLP pathway to our
Our research aims to redefine treatment goals across these respiratory pipeline. This could redefine the standard of care
conditions, going beyond optimal management of daily for asthma patients with dosing every six months. AIO-001
symptoms, to modify the course of disease. This could slow has the potential to expand our reach to a broader portion
or halt disease progression, reduce the risk of organ of asthma patients, including the 40% of severe asthma
damage and even mean some people could achieve patients with low T2 inflammation where treatment options
clinical remission. are still needed. In addition to the treatment of adult
patients with asthma, AIO-001 also has the potential for
23Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Research and development continued
additional indications including chronic rhinosinusitis with Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a rare autoimmune disease that
nasal polyps. causes atypical growth of connective tissues and can affect
the musculoskeletal system, heart, lungs, kidneys, skin and
Progress towards a treatment for refractory
other organs. Interstitial lung disease (ILD), marked by
chronic cough with camlipixant
inflammation and scar tissue build-up in the lungs, affects
–Approximately 28 million people suffer from chronic as many as half of people living with SSc. Current treatment
cough, with about 10 million worldwide suffering from options are limited.
refractory chronic cough (RCC) for over a year.
In 2023, the US FDA granted Orphan Drug Designation
–RCC is a cough that persists for more than eight weeks (ODD) to Benlysta as a potential treatment for SSc. The
and doesn’t respond to treatment for an underlying ODD is a special status granted to support development
condition or is otherwise unexplained. and evaluation of potential medicines to treat, diagnose
or prevent rare diseases or disorders affecting fewer than
–For decades there have been no effective treatments for
200,000 people in the US. We began a phase II/III trial for
RCC, with patients often suffering from depression, urinary
SSc-associated ILD in 2023. We will be exploring other
incontinence, rib fractures and loss of sleep.
potential studies in a wider range of potential indications
In 2023, we acquired Bellus Health, which included in 2024.
camlipixant, a potential best-in-disease and highly selective
Benlysta remains the first and only approved biologic for
oral P2X3 antagonist currently in phase III development as a
both systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and LN in more
first-line treatment for adults with RCC. Current clinical data
than 50 years. Its robust efficacy and long-term safety have
show that by selectively inhibiting P2X3 receptors,
been recognised in updated recommendations from the
camlipixant may reduce cough frequency for patients European Alliance of Associations for Rheumatology
suffering from RCC with a relatively low incidence of (EULAR) for the management of SLE and LN, endorsing
dysgeusia. This is the taste disturbance associated with earlier use in the treatment pathway. We plan a phase IV
other medicines that broadly target the P2X2/3 receptor. study in early 2024 to further inform the proactive
We expect data in 2025 from the phase III CALM management of lupus to prevent organ damage.
development programme, evaluating the efficacy and
Benlysta has been approved for use in over 75 countries
safety of camlipixant.
to treat adults with SLE. This has been extended to include
Treating systemic sclerosis with Benlysta children aged five and older with SLE in the US, Japan, the
EEA countries, the UK and over 15 other countries.
We continue to work to realise the full potential of Benlysta,
our anti-B Lymphocyte stimulator (BLyS) monoclonal Benlysta is currently approved to treat adults with LN in the
antibody, so that people affected by a range of immune- US, all EEA countries, the UK and over 15 further countries. In
mediated conditions beyond lupus and lupus nephritis (LN) the US, this indication includes children aged five and older
can benefit from its targeted mode of action, and reassuring with LN, and reviews for this continue in other countries.
safety profile.
Remission could be possible for severe asthma
Shelby Gorman, a GSK employee, knows all too well
the negative impact of severe asthma on a child’s life.
‘The doctor said to us – when was the last time you
had a day when you felt good all day?’, Shelby says.
‘My daughter could not remember one day when she
felt well ever, in her life.’
After many years of frequently being hospitalised due
to exacerbations, Shelby’s daughter, Joelle, received
a more accurate diagnosis and started on an
appropriate targeted treatment. For the first time she
was able to live her life without respiratory infections
and no daily antihistamines.
With our expertise in respiratory disease and deep
understanding of the immune system, our scientists
along with other global specialists are developing
solutions to help some people with severe asthma
achieve clinical remission.
Shelby and Joelle
24Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Research and development continued
Oncology
Cancer, one of the world’s major causes of death, is a field Blenrep: our treatment for multiple myeloma
where patients’ needs are still widely unmet and treatment –Multiple myeloma is the third most common blood
options remain limited. We have an emerging portfolio in cancer globally and is generally considered treatable
oncology that is focused on seeking solutions for blood and but not curable.
women's cancers, and making transformative break-
–Approximately 176,000 new cases of multiple myeloma
throughs in immuno-oncology.
are diagnosed globally each year.
Ojjaara (momelotinib), Blenrep (belantamab mafodotin),
Jemperli (dostarlimab) and Zejula (niraparib) are the strong –Research into new therapies is needed, as multiple
foundation of our work in blood and women's cancers. Our myeloma commonly becomes refractory to available
goal is to realise the full potential of our existing medicines, treatments.
as well as expand our portfolio in areas of high unmet need.
Blenrep is our antibody-drug conjugate treatment for
In 2023, we received approval in the US for Ojjaara our relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. Our DREAMM
treatment for myelofibrosis. Omjjaara was then approved in (Driving Excellence in Approaches to Multiple Myeloma)
the EU and UK in January 2024. We also received approval clinical development programme continues to evaluate the
in the US, EU and UK for our immuno-oncology therapy potential of Blenrep to address unmet need in early lines of
treatment and in combination with novel therapies and
Jemperli plus chemotherapy as a first-line treatment for
standard of care treatments.
endometrial cancer patients with a certain biomarker.
In November 2023, we announced positive phase III results
We continue to evaluate dostarlimab in studies that further
from the DREAMM-7 trial, showing potential for Blenrep
reinforce our ambition for it to become the backbone of
combination therapy to benefit patients in earlier treatment
our ongoing immuno-oncology research and development
lines. Interim analysis of DREAMM-7 showed that patients
programme.
receiving Blenrep in combination with bortezomib and
Blood cancers dexamethasone (BorDex) lived longer without their disease
progressing than those receiving daratumumab plus
Ojjaara: helping myelofibrosis patients with anaemia
BorDex, an existing standard of care combination therapy.
–Myelofibrosis (MF) is a rare blood cancer affecting
We are sharing this data with health authorities and the
around 25,000 people in the US.
scientific community as we await the results from
–Nearly all MF patients will eventually develop anaemia, DREAMM-8, another phase III combination trial exploring
requiring regular blood transfusions and leading over Blenrep’s potential in earlier therapy lines.
30% to stop treatment with established therapies.
Also during 2023, health authorities continued to review
–In addition to anaemia, patients can experience existing monotherapy indications for Blenrep in later therapy
debilitating symptoms like night sweats, fatigue lines based on the results of previous studies. This included
and bone pain, as well as an enlarged spleen in December 2023, the EMA recommending against
(splenomegaly), bringing pain and inflammation renewal of the conditional marketing authorisation for its
and frequent infection risk. existing fourth line and later monotherapy indication.
Ojjaara, taken orally once a day, is the only medicine Women's cancers
specifically indicated for newly diagnosed and previously
Jemperli: a backbone immuno-oncology therapy
treated MF patients with anaemia. It treats anaemia, along
with the constitutional symptoms and enlarged spleen that –Endometrial, or uterine, cancer is the sixth most common
accompany the disease. This means it potentially offers a cancer in women worldwide, with an estimated 417,000
new standard of care for patients, as established treatments new cases and 97,370 deaths in 2020.
can further exacerbate anaemia.
–About 30% of endometrial cancer cases have a
In September 2023, the FDA granted broad, line-agnostic biomarker known as dMMR/MSI-H.
approval for Ojjaara for the treatment of primary or
–Patients with this type of endometrial cancer have faced
secondary MF in adults with anaemia, regardless of
significant unmet need and typically experience poor
previous MF therapy. This was followed by a positive CHMP
long-term outcomes with standard of care chemotherapy.
opinion in November 2023 and approval by the European
Commission, as well as MHRA approval, in January 2024. In 2023, Jemperli became the only immuno-oncology
We’ve also submitted a new drug application in Japan. treatment approved in the US, EU and UK in the frontline
setting in combination with chemotherapy for patients with
mismatch repair deficient or microsatellite instability-high
(dMMR/MSI-H) primary advanced or recurrent endometrial
cancer. In the RUBY trial supporting these approvals,
Jemperli plus chemotherapy showed a 71% reduction in
the risk of disease progression or death compared to
chemotherapy alone.
25Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Research and development continued
In 2023 we announced two additional positive data AZUR-1 is a global, open-label, phase II clinical trial to
readouts for the RUBY phase III trial. In part 1 of the trial, investigate the efficacy and safety of dostarlimab as
Jemperli plus chemotherapy showed statistically significant monotherapy – replacing chemotherapy, radiation and/or
and clinically meaningful overall survival benefit compared surgery – for treatment-naïve patients with dMMR/MSI-H
to chemotherapy in the overall population of patients with locally advanced rectal cancer. If successful, there’s
primary advanced or recurrent endometrial cancer. Jemperli potential to transform the treatment of some patients with
is the only immuno-oncology combination regimen to locally advanced rectal cancer.
achieve this. Part 2 of the RUBY trial, which evaluated
The trial aims to confirm results generated in a separate
Jemperli plus chemotherapy followed by Jemperli plus
ongoing investigator-initiated trial by researchers at
Zejula for the treatment of primary advanced or recurrent
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. In 2023, this trial
endometrial cancer, demonstrated significantly improved
reported that all participants treated with dostarlimab
progression-free survival compared to chemotherapy alone
achieved clinical complete responses, enabling them to
in both the overall and mismatch repair proficient/
avoid surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy.
microsatellite stable (MMRp/MSS) patient populations.
We also began our AZUR-2 trial, a phase III trial that
Jemperli is also approved as a stand-alone treatment
evaluates the efficacy of perioperative dostarlimab
for certain types of endometrial cancer. Earlier in 2023, the
monotherapy compared with standard of care adjuvant
FDA converted the accelerated approval for Jemperli
chemotherapy in patients with high-risk early stage dMMR/
as a second-line treatment into a full approval as a
MSI-H colon cancer. If approved, this could give patients
monotherapy for adult patients with dMMR recurrent or
a new chemotherapy-free option that reduces the risk of
advanced endometrial cancer, as determined by an
FDA-approved test, that has progressed on, or following, disease progression through dostarlimab treatment in
a prior platinum-containing regimen in any setting, both neoadjuvant and adjuvant settings.
and who aren’t candidates for surgery or radiation.
Lung cancer
The European Commission's conditional approval for
–Lung cancer is the second most common cancer globally
Jemperli as a monotherapy for adult patients in the same
and the most common cancer in men.
patient population was also converted to full approval.
–In 2020, there were more than 2.2 million new cases
Zejula: our PARP inhibitor for ovarian cancer and beyond
of lung cancer worldwide.
We continue to develop Zejula in multiple pivotal trials,
assessing activity in gynaecologic cancers and other solid –The majority of lung cancers fall into a category called
tumours and evaluating several potential combinations of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). While this form of
Zejula with other therapeutics. Aiming to address the unmet lung cancer progresses more slowly, 40% of NSCLC cases
medical needs of patients, the ongoing development will have spread beyond the lungs by diagnosis.
programme includes the FIRST phase III trial assessing the
In 2023, we published data from our phase II PERLA clinical
potential for niraparib in combination with dostarlimab in
trial showing a favourable numerical trend in overall survival
first-line ovarian cancer maintenance and the ZEAL phase
results for dostarlimab plus chemotherapy compared to
III trial evaluating niraparib in combination with standard of
pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy in first-line metastatic
care for the maintenance treatment of first-line advanced
NSCLC. Data from the PERLA trial supports our ambition for
non-small cell lung cancer. In addition, based on promising
dostarlimab to become a backbone immuno-oncology
early clinical data for niraparib in glioblastoma in November
therapy when used alone and in combination with standard
2023, we are exploring next steps for its clinical
of care and future novel cancer therapies, including targets
development in this type of cancer.
along the CD226 axis.
Other cancers
We have access to antibodies targeting all three known
Colorectal cancer CD226 checkpoints – CD96, PVRIG and TIGIT. Our goal
–Cancers that start in the colon or in the rectum, both of studying these immune checkpoints in combination with
of which are distinct sections of the large intestine, dostarlimab is aimed at increasing the proportion of
are classified as colorectal cancers. patients who respond to therapy and improving the
durability of response. In 2023, our CD226 axis development
–Colorectal cancer is the second leading cause of cancer-
programme continued with several early-phase trials
related death and the third most common cancer
underway, including GALAXIES Lung-201, our phase II
worldwide, accounting for approximately 10% of all
platform study in first-line metastatic NSCLC that combines
cancer cases.
dostarlimab with belrestotug, our TIGIT antibody partnered
–In 2020, it was estimated that worldwide, there were more with iTeos Therapeutics. GALAXIES Lung-201 will also
than 1.9 million new cases of colorectal cancer and more explore a triplet combination with dostarlimab, belrestotug,
than 930,000 deaths. and GSK6097608, our CD96 antibody.
In January 2023, the US FDA granted dostarlimab Fast- In addition, our two phase III trials in NSCLC continued in
Track designation for the treatment of dMMR/MSI-H locally 2023 with readouts expected in 2024:
advanced rectal cancer.
–COSTAR Lung, our phase III, randomised, open-label
We also started our AZUR clinical trial programme studying three-arm trial is comparing investigational compound
dostarlimab in certain colorectal cancer indications. cobolimab plus dostarlimab plus docetaxel to
26Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Research and development continued
dostarlimab plus docetaxel to docetaxel alone in The B7-H4 surface antigen is over-expressed in ovarian
patients with advanced NSCLC who have progressed and endometrial cancers and often associated with poor
on prior anti-PD-L1 therapy and chemotherapy. prognosis. As well as targeting B7-H4, HS-20089 uses
clinically validated ADC technologies such as
–ZEAL, our phase III, randomised, double-blind trial is
topoisomerase inhibitor payload (TOPOi). This is a validated
assessing niraparib in combination with standard of care
mechanism of action in approved anti-cancer medicines
for the maintenance treatment of first-line advanced
NSCLC. and a proven standard of care in treating breast and
ovarian cancers.
Pipeline growth through business development
In December 2023, we added to our oncology portfolio of
In October 2023, we announced an exclusive licence
clinical-stage ADCs by entering a second exclusive licensing
agreement with the Chinese company Hansoh Pharma for
agreement with Hansoh Pharma for HS-20093.
HS-20089, its B7-H4-targeted ADC. This supports our work
in developing treatments for ovarian and endometrial HS-20093, a B7-H3 targeted ADC also utilising a clinically
cancers, as well as solid tumours. validated TOPOi payload, has shown promising initial
clinical activity in lung cancer with potential to address
unmet medical need in broader solid tumour indications
including colorectal cancer.
Technology
New platform and data technology are fundamentally These expand our ability to identify novel vaccine and
transforming how we discover and develop vaccines and medicine options to prevent
medicines, speeding up discovery and development and or treat these diseases.
improving the chance of success.
We are investing in platform technologies including:
Technology makes us more effective at every stage of the
Multiple antigen presenting system (MAPS), which allows
discovery and development process, so that we progress
us to develop multivalent vaccines for complex bacterial
vaccines and medicines that are the first or best of their
infections by introducing T-cell mediated, disease-specific
kind. Our early investment in these capabilities is already
anti-protein immunity. This potentially enables broader
leading to differentiated, high-impact vaccines and
coverage against certain disease types and higher
medicines including a new vaccine for RSV, long-acting
immunogenicity than current vaccines, as well as higher
HIV prevention, and the prospect of a functional cure for
antibody responses. We are developing MAPS through our
chronic hepatitis B.
2022 acquisition of Affinivax. We’ve mainly directed MAPS
We combine the power of genetic data and genomic at preventing pneumococcal disease, and it’s part of our
insights with the speed and scale of AI to make better 24-valent pneumococcal vaccine candidate in phase II
predictions and increase the probability of new vaccines development (see page 20). This platform also shows
and medicines becoming available for patients. Our AI promise against other pathogens, including those that
team – one of the largest in the industry – works with our cause hospital-acquired infections.
genomics team to improve how we select disease targets,
mRNA, which enables protein synthesis in the human body,
determine the best technology approach, and identify
carrying the information required for cells to produce
groups of patients where a treatment might work best.
proteins. By using mRNA technology for vaccine
We’re not doing this alone. We partner with the world’s development, specific proteins, or antigens, can be
best minds across academia and the tech and biotech produced by the body’s own cells and elicit both humoral
industries – from large companies to small start-ups. This and immune responses, enabling the human immune
collaboration leads to new ways of thinking, so that together system to prevent or fight disease. We’re developing mRNA
we can strive for the most innovative solutions for patients. in-house in parallel with our collaboration with CureVac, a
biopharmaceutical company developing therapies based
Using platform technologies to discover and
on mRNA. We’re currently developing RNA vaccines based
develop novel vaccines and medicines
on CureVac’s second-generation mRNA backbone, with
One of the major challenges in addressing diseases where monovalent and bivalent COVID-19 vaccine candidates
no vaccines or medicines currently exist is that they are in phase II. A multivalent seasonal influenza vaccine
difficult to treat with small molecules or biologics. candidate to protect against multiple strains is also
in phase I/II (see page 20).
We’re overcoming this challenge by investing in both our
own innovation and in external collaborations to develop Small molecule design, paired with our own small molecule
a range of platform technologies. With platform technology, generative AI tools. Our system has the advantage of using
we pair disease targets with the best treatment modalities, known chemical reactions and building blocks to create
addressing diseases once thought to be too difficult to large 'virtual libraries' of potential drug molecules for
target with drug discovery. specific biological targets.
27Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Research and development continued
The molecules comprising these virtual libraries have the The combined power of biology and technology is profound
advantage of being easily synthesised and free from many and is reshaping the way science is done. For example, we
of the known problems associated with small molecule now generate more data in one quarter than in our
drugs since they are filtered by a series of machine-learned company’s 300-year history and, by the end of 2024, we
molecular property models based on GSK historical data aim to bring predictive, real-time insight to inform 90% of
and clean public sources. our progression and development decisions in our research.
Oligonucleotides, which are short strands of DNA or RNA Combining AI, genetic and genomics for unexpected
that can reduce, restore or modulate RNA through several possibilities
mechanisms, giving them a unique capability to address a We have built in-house teams dedicated to genomics
wide range of genomic targets in multiple therapeutic areas and AI, including at our key R&D sites in London, Tel Aviv,
for the first time. Oligonucleotides currently in our pipeline San Francisco, Seattle, Philadelphia and Boston. Their
include bepirovirsen for chronic hepatitis B; and GSK expertise helps us collect more data, generate more ideas
4532990, a phase II programme for non-alcoholic and arrive at unexpected possibilities. They’re bringing us
steatohepatitis (NASH). closer to finding vaccines and medicines for diseases that
once felt outside our reach, making our research process
We also have two collaborations to build a leading
faster, more effective, and more predictable.
oligonucleotide platform:
We have invested to build a world-class research data
–In 2022, we entered a collaboration with Wave Life
platform, which includes one of the world’s most
Sciences, which pairs our genetic expertise with Wave’s
PRISM, the only oligonucleotide platform offering three comprehensive large language models on genetic disease.
RNA-targeting modalities (editing, splicing and silencing, It brings over 700 billion data points into a single place
including siRNA and antisense). The collaboration helps to map gene expression and function activity. This enables
us accelerate drug discovery for newly identified targets, our scientists to run experiments and get answers to
by matching them to the best therapeutic modality. questions in a matter of hours, a process that once took
weeks or months.
–In 2023, we announced a partnership with Elsie
Biotechnologies, Inc. The collaboration combines Genetics and genomics
our expertise in DNA encoded library technologies with We are using a combination of genetics, functional
Elsie's drug discovery platform. Throughout the genomics and genetic engineering techniques like CRISPR
collaboration, we can exercise an option on a non-
(Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic
exclusive licence from Elsie for its discovery platform
Repeats) to enable us to screen and validate hundreds
and P(V) chemistry technologies to use in our own
of genetic targets in parallel, instead of one at a time.
oligonucleotide drug discovery research.
Through the screening process we can discover causal
Monoclonal antibodies, are produced by a single clone of genes through genomics and link to biomarkers that may
cells or cell lines and consist of identical antibody molecules predict disease. In 2023, we had 53 targets with strong
that are meant to modulate a patient’s immune system. genetic evidence in our pipeline, an increase from 45 in
We have all the platforms needed to make best-in-class 2022.
monoclonal antibodies (like Nucala), bispecific antibodies,
Applying data tech to our clinical research
and antibody-drug conjugates (like Blenrep). We are also
At the clinical stage of development, AI/ML and genomics
developing generative design capabilities based on
are helping us assess how certain patient profiles might
increased use of next generation sequencing as well as
respond, so we’ll be able to make sure we have the right
public and proprietary protein structure tools. The structures
people in the right trials. This offers the potential to have
designed using these tools are then realised using highly
shorter, less expensive clinical trials with greater chances
automated antibody synthesis, isolation, and purification
of success.
processes.
An example of this is our research on our antisense
Adjuvants, substances that enhance the body’s immune
oligonucleotide bepirovirsen for chronic hepatitis B. Using
response to antigens, which we use in Arexvy and Shingrix,
ML, we developed algorithms that helped us categorise
our vaccines for RSV and shingles, and our HSV vaccine
patients into five distinct subtypes based on their response
candidate, GSK 3943104. We are also working with Xiamen
to treatment. This almost doubled our ability to correctly
Innovax Biotech on a next-generation adjuvanted vaccine
predict future patient outcomes, compared to using the
to protect against more types of HPV.
traditional methods. This is significant because it will help
Using genetic data to better understand inform sequential and combination therapy options,
disease and choose the right solutions for potentially leading to better outcomes and ultimately
the right patients helping more people living with hepatitis B experience
functional cure.
With data technology, we combine AI/ML with human
genetics and functional genomics to understand patients,
human biology and disease mechanisms. This makes us
better at choosing and prioritising targets, designing trials
and bringing new vaccines and medicines to patients.
28Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Research and development continued
Collaborating to change the course of This work complements technology and biology projects
disease for patients underway at the Laboratory for Genomic Research, which
we co-founded in 2019 with researchers at the University of
By working with others we achieve more, better and faster
California in San Francisco. These projects are automating
to address disease areas of high unmet need and for as
and advancing CRISPR for new discoveries of disease
many people as possible.
mechanisms for immunology, oncology and neurology.
Our collaborations with UK Biobank, 23andMe and FinnGen
Other collaborations are helping make advances in multiple
have given us access to large genetic datasets to deepen
fields of human health.
understanding of diseases and improve drug discovery.
We’re also a founding partner of Our Future Health, a UK –With King’s College London, we’re using tumour models
initiative setting out to recruit up to five million people to alongside digital pathology and AI to develop personalised
capture genetic and medical information. And we work immuno-oncology treatments for solid cancers.
with Genes & Health and Discover Me South Africa to make
–With PathAI, we’re working to accelerate R&D in oncology
sure we have a diverse genetic representation of diseases.
and NASH.
In January 2024, we also announced we'd joined the
Alliance for Genomic Discovery, further expanding our –We established the Oxford-GSK Institute of Molecular and
access to diverse genetic datasets. Computational Medicine (IMCM) with Oxford University in
2021. It combines human genetics with functional
Other collaborations in functional genomics give us insights
genomics and ML to focus on diseases including
to help select targets that are more likely to become
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Alzheimer’s and
medicines. We continue to work with genomics research
Parkinson’s.
centres like the Broad Institute, affiliated with MIT and
Harvard University in Boston, and the Altius Institute in –Our work with precision medicine company Tempus has
Seattle. In the UK, our partners include the consortium focused on using data to further enable clinical trial
Open Targets, which we co-founded. designs and target selections in oncology.
Culture
We create an agile, innovative environment that’s To support this, in 2023 we’ve taken steps to focus even
ambitious for patients and attracts the best people, more intently on our core therapeutic areas, strengthen
scientists and partners. decision-making with clearer ownership and simplified,
agile governance, and embed technology more deeply
To get ahead of disease, we need the best people –
in our work.
scientists, researchers, trial specialists, technologists and
more – and an environment where they can thrive and We’ve created three research units dedicated to vaccines
make the most of their expertise, inside the company or and infectious diseases, respiratory and immunology, and
as partners. Our R&D people work together in an inclusive oncology. Reporting directly to the Chief Scientific Officer,
environment to foster new ideas and make connections, they use their expertise to pick the right targets for the right
including our scientists, technologists and data engineers patients, leading clinical development through to phase II
working side by side. 27% of our R&D leadership team and making recommendations on phase III programmes.
started their roles in the past two years, bringing 56 years These research teams complement our ongoing research
of combined experience, adding to our leadership and in HIV, through ViiV Healthcare.
delivering against key priorities.
Close collaboration between R&D, commercial,
Our culture unites us in being ambitious for patients and manufacturing and medical leaders makes sure we match
accountable for impact, and always doing the right thing. scientific potential with unmet patient need to maximise
This culture encourages teams to focus on what matters our impact on disease and deliver competitive commercial
most, take smart risks and make informed decisions at pace. value. We’ve also created one research technologies
It also helps them take ownership of objectives, seize organisation, bringing together platform and data groups
opportunities and solve problems together. to create a scaled engine for identifying and progressing
targets for ourselves and our partners.
29Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Research and development continued
Pipeline overview
We have 71 assets in development, of which 18 are late-stage.
Phase III/Registration 3858279 (Anti-CCL17 antibody)1 Osteoarthritis pain2
Arexvy (Recombinant protein, adjuvanted)1 RSV older adults (50-59 YoA)3 1070806 (Anti-IL18 antibody) Atopic dermatitis
gepotidacin (BTI inhibitor)1 Uncomplicated UTI2
4527226 (Anti-sortilin antibody)1 Alzheimer’s disease
bepirovirsen (Antisense oligonucleotide)1 Chronic HBV infection2
belrestotug (Anti-TIGIT antibody)1 Non-small cell lung cancer2
Bexsero (Recombinant protein, OMV) Meningitis B (infants US)
MenABCWY vaccine (Recombinant protein, OMV, conjugated vaccine) 4532990 (HSD17B13 siRNA)1 Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis
MenABCWY, 1stGen Phase I
tebipenem pivoxil (Antibacterial carbapenem)1 Complicated UTI 3536867 (Bivalent conjugate)1 Salmonella (typhoid + paratyphoid A)
ibrexafungerp (Antifungal glucan synthase inhibitor)1 Invasive candidiasis 2556286 (Mtb cholesterol dependent inhibitor)1 Tuberculosis
Nucala (Anti-IL5 antibody) COPD 3186899 (CRK-12 inhibitor)1,10 Visceral leishmaniasis
depemokimab (Long-acting anti-IL5 antibody)1 Asthma2 3494245 (Proteasome inhibitor)1 Visceral leishmaniasis
latozinemab (Anti-sortilin antibody)1 Frontotemporal dementia2,4 3772701 (P. falciparum whole cell inhibitor)1 Malaria
camlipixant (P2X3 receptor antagonist) Refractory chronic cough 4024484 (P. falciparum whole cell inhibitor)1 Malaria
Low carbon version of MDI5, Ventolin (Beta 2 adrenergic receptor 3882347 (FimH antagonist)1 Uncomplicated UTI
agonist) Asthma6 3923868 (PI4K beta inhibitor) Viral COPD exacerbations
Ojjaara/Omjjara (JAK1, JAK2 and ACVR1 inhibitor)3,7 3965193 (PAPD5/PAPD7 inhibitor) Chronic HBV infection8
Jemperli (Anti-PD-1 antibody)1 Endometrial cancer2 5251738 (TLR8 agonist)1 Chronic HBV infection
Zejula (PARP inhibitor)1 Ovarian cancer2 cabotegravir (Integrase inhibitor) HIV
Blenrep (Anti-BCMA ADC)1 Multiple myeloma 3888130 (Anti-IL7 antibody)1 Autoimmune disease
cobolimab (Anti-TIM-3 antibody)1 Non-small cell lung cancer 3915393 (TG2 inhibitor)1 Pulmonary fibrosis
linerixibat (IBAT inhibitor) Cholestatic pruritus in primary biliary 3862995 (Anti-IL33 antibody) COPD
cholangitis 5462688 (RNA-editing oligonucleotide)1 Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency
Phase II 4347859 (Interferon pathway modulator) Systemic lupus
3437949 (Recombinant protein, adjuvanted)1 Malaria fractional dose erythematosus
4406371 (live, attenuated) MMRV new strain 4381562 (Anti-PVRIG antibody)1 Cancer
3536852 (GMMA)1 Shigella 6097608 (Anti-CD96 antibody)1 Cancer
3528869 (Viral vector with recombinant protein, adjuvanted)1 Chronic XMT-205611 (STING agonist ADC)1 Cancer
HBV infection2,8
belantamab (Anti-BCMA antibody) Multiple myeloma
4023393 (Recombinant protein, OMV, conjugated vaccine) 4524101 (DNA polymerase theta inhibitor)1 Cancer8
MenABCWY, 2ndGen8 5733584 (ADC-targeting B7-H4)1 Gynecologic malignancies
4178116 (Live, attenuated) Varicella new strain 4172239 (DNMT1 inhibitor)1 Sickle cell disease
5101956 (MAPS)1 Adult pneumococcal disease, 24-valent
5101955 (MAPS)1 Paediatric pneumococcal disease, 24-valent Assets are ordered by therapy area within each phase: infectious
4106647 (Recombinant protein, adjuvanted)1 Human papillomavirus8 diseases, HIV, respiratory/immunology, oncology and opportunity
4348413 (GMMA) Gonorrhoea8 driven. Only the most advanced indications are shown for each asset.
(1) In-licence or other alliance relationship with third party
4382276 (mRNA)1 Seasonal flu
(2)Additional indications or candidates also under investigation
4396687 (mRNA)1 COVID-19
(3)In registration
3993129 (Adjuvanted recombinant subunit) Cytomegalovirus8 (4)Phase III trial in patients with progranulin gene mutation
3943104 (Recombinant protein, adjuvanted)1 Therapeutic herpes (5)Metered dose inhaler
simplex virus8 (6)Phase III start expected in 2024
5637608 (Hepatitis B virus-targeted siRNA)1 Chronic HBV infection (7) Approved in US and EU
4077164 (Bivalent GMMA)1 Invasive non-typhoidal salmonella2 (8)In phase I/II study
(9)Phase II study start imminent
ganfeborole 3036656 (Leucyl t-RNA synthetase inhibitor)1 Tuberculosis
(10)Transition activities underway to enable further progression by partner
sanfetrinem cilexetil (Serine beta lactamase inhibitor)1 Tuberculosis
(11)GSK has an exclusive global licence option to co-develop and
alpibectir BVL-GSK098 (Ethionamide booster)1 Tuberculosis commercialise the candidate
3810109 (Broadly neutralizing antibody)1 HIV RSV: respiratory syncytial virus; UTI: urinary tract infection; HBV: hepatitis B
virus; ADC: Antibody drug conjugate; COPD: chronic obstructive pulmonary
3739937 (Maturation inhibitor) HIV
disease; MMRV: measles, mumps, rubella & varicella; OMV: outer membrane
4004280 (Capsid protein inhibitor) HIV vasicle; siRNA: small interfering RNA GMMA: generalised modules for
membrane antigens; YoA years of age
4011499 (Capsid protein inhibitor) HIV
4524184 (Integrase inhibitor)1 HIV9
Benlysta (Anti-BLys antibody) Systemic sclerosis associated interstitial
lung disease
30Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Commercial In 2023 we delivered strong
and sustained performance
momentum, with successful
operations
commercial launches,
supported by our integrated
global supply chain.
31Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Commercial operations
Highlights
£30.3bn +3% +5% +14%
total sales AER CER CER excluding COVID
Sales contribution by product area (£bn)1 Sales contribution by region (£bn)1
2022 +10% 2022 +10%
+24% +15% +5% +16% +8% +15%
+14% +14%
2023 2023
0 10 20 30 0 10 20 30
l Vaccines l Speciality Medicines l General Medicines l US l Europe l International
(1) Bar charts: excluding COVID-19 solutions
Absolute values at AER; changes at CER, unless stated otherwise
Strong operational performance For details on our performance and drivers of growth see:
In 2023 we've continued to focus on operational –Vaccines performance, page 33
performance, with strong growth across all product areas
–Specialty Medicines performance, page 37
and regions. This builds on good progress in 2022 and
demonstrates strong, sustained performance momentum. –General Medicines performance, page 40.
It means we are confident in delivering our upgraded
growth outlooks for the period 2021-26, and for 2031.
Strong performance in 2023 was driven by a continued
step-change in commercial execution. This was
underpinned by a focus on leadership, developing
outstanding people, and building meaningful connections
with healthcare professionals (HCPs) and patients –
supported by data and technology – to give us strong
insights into how we can best meet their needs.
32Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Performance: Vaccines
Our broad vaccines portfolio targets
infectious diseases at every stage of Double-digit growth for Vaccines
life, helping to protect people from
meningitis, shingles, RSV, flu, polio
Successful launch of Arexvy in the US
and many more.
Continued strong uptake of Shingrix
Turnover in International and Europe
£9.9bn
+24% AER, +25% CER
l Established £3.3bn
l Shingles £3.4bn
l Meningitis £1.3bn
l RSV £1.2bn
l Influenza £504m
l Pandemic £150m
33Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Performance: Vaccines continued
Key products
Product Disease Total revenue Key information
Shingrix Herpes zoster (shingles) £3.4bn +16% AER; +17% CER Market-leading recombinant, adjuvanted vaccine indicated
for the prevention of shingles in adults. Launched in 40
markets
Arexvy RSV £1.2bn World's first approved RSV vaccine for adults, approved in
39 countries
Bexsero Meningitis £849m +13% AER; +14% CER Approved in over 50 countries for the prevention of invasive
group B meningococcal disease (IMD) caused by Neisseria
meningitidis serogroup B
Boostrix Diphtheria, tetanus, £614m +3% AER; +4% CER Available in 78 countries and market leader in the US
acellular pertussis booster
Rotarix Rotavirus £614m +17% AER; +18% CER Market-leading pediatric vaccine in 132 countries. Increased
share in the US since launch of liquid formulation in 2022
Fluarix, FluLaval Seasonal influenza £504m -29% AER; -29% CER
Quadrivalent influenza vaccines, available in 38 countries
Infanrix, Pediarix Diphtheria, £554m -7% AER; -6% CER DTPa vaccine available in 77 countries. Pediarix is one of the
tetanus, pertussis, polio, leading brands by volume in the US
hepatitis B, haemophilus
influenza type B
Engerix, Twinrix, Havrix Hepatitis £611m +7% AER; +8% CER Growing hepatitis portfolio leadership through increased
coverage and strengthened recommendations
Menveo Meningitis £380m +10% AER; +12% CER Menveo helps protect against IMD caused by Neisseria
group A, C, W and Y meningitidis serogroups A, C, Y and W and is available
in over 60 countries
Synflorix Invasive disease, £275m -10% AER; -10% CER Synflorix, available in 100 countries, including WHO pre-
pneumonia, acute otitis qualification. Acquisition of MAPS technology is expected
media to enable greater serotypes and disease coverage
Priorix, Priorix Measles, mumps, rubella £265m +41% AER; +41% CER Priorix continues to gain share in the US. Priorix is available
Tetra, Varilrix and chickenpox in 97 countries, Varilrix in 86 countries, and Priorix Tetra in
60 countries
Cervarix Human papilloma virus £120m +3% AER; +5% CER An important option against HPV. Cervarix two-dose
schedule for girls aged 9-14 launched in China in 2023
Sales performance Arexvy achieved more than £1.2 billion in sales driven by
strong uptake and leading market share, delivering an
Vaccines sales grew 24% AER, 25% CER to £9.9 billion total
outstanding launch. Almost all sales were in the US where
and 23% AER, 24% CER to £9.7 billion excluding COVID-19
Arexvy is available in all major retail pharmacies with
solutions.
competitive contracting in place.
Shingrix grew 16% AER, 17% CER to £3.4 billion on increased
Influenza (Fluarix/FluLaval) sales declined in line with
demand and favourable pricing, with Q4 2023 representing
expectations by 29% at AER and CER, to £504 million.
the highest ever quarter of sales. Growth was driven by
This was driven by competitive pressure and lower market
public funding expansion and strong private uptake in
demand, primarily in the US.
International and Europe.
Established Vaccines grew 6% AER, 7% CER to £3.3 billion
Meningitis vaccine sales grew 13% AER ,14% CER to
driven by Rotarix favourable US CDC stockpile movements,
£1.3 billion, largely delivered by Bexsero, primarily driven by
MMR/V vaccines increased supply in International, and
inclusion in National Immunisation Programmes in Europe.
hepatitis vaccine performance related to the travel market
Menveo grew due to the favourable impact of a US CDC
recovery.
(Center for Disease Control) stockpile replenishment.
34Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Performance: Vaccines continued
Our strategy for growth Shingrix continued to grow and is now available in 40
countries, with less than 4% penetration in the majority
Our portfolio of more than 20 marketed vaccines is one of of those markets. In the US 35% of the 120 million adults
the industry’s broadest. We deliver approximately 1.5 million recommended to receive Shingrix have now been
doses of our vaccines every day; and 4 out of 10 infants born vaccinated. 70 million people are already protected with
each year receive at least one GSK vaccine. Our vaccines Shingrix and our ambition is to vaccinate more than 100
portfolio targets infectious diseases at every stage of life, million people by 2026. To support this, in 2023 we entered
helping to protect people from RSV, meningitis, shingles, into an exclusive agreement with Chongqing Zhifei
flu, polio and many more. Biological Products, Ltd. (Zhifei) with a value of £2.5 billion
for an initial three-year period to co-promote Shingrix in
Vaccines are critical to delivering our growth plans. Our
China. Zhifei will import and distribute Shingrix in China,
focus is on strong execution in key markets with Shingrix
promoting the vaccine through its network of over 30,000
and our existing portfolio, and on delivering the value of our
vaccination points. The partnership will significantly extend
pipeline with new launches, particularly our world-first RSV
the availability of Shingrix, supporting the rapid expansion
vaccine, Arexvy, so we can bring our vaccines to as many of patient access to the vaccine and future potential
patients as possible. indications.
Vaccines are complex and highly technical to develop and We continue to lead the meningitis market driven by
manufacture. This helps to protect our portfolio from Bexsero (MenB) and Menveo (MenACWY), as we prepare
potential disruption from new technologies. There’s no for the transition to our pentavalent MenABCWY vaccine
established generic industry and vaccines don’t generally that combines these established vaccines. Continuing to
face the so-called ‘patent cliff’. This longer lifecycle means invest in Bexsero remains integral to strengthening our
vaccines can remain in use for decades after their initial leadership by securing key National Immunisation
authorisation. For example, Boostrix, Infanrix, Priorix and Programmes (NIP) in countries like Germany and
Engerix remain important parts of our portfolio in terms of Switzerland. We’ll do this by building our real-world
contribution to performance. evidence base, and by helping to improve immunisation
rates globally, focusing on the US adolescent population.
Our established platform technologies, and the new
To improve our competitiveness, we’ll look to drive future
platforms we’re building, such as the MAPS and mRNA
growth with multiple lifecycle innovations in the coming
technologies, are a key part of our vaccines growth strategy
years, including launching Menveo in a convenient liquid
and are enabling us to tackle the most complex diseases
formulation in additional countries.
from birth throughout adulthood (see page 27).
Our established vaccines remain a key priority for growth,
Drivers of growth across the portfolio
representing a third of our total vaccines business. Our core
Our launch of Arexvy supports our market leadership vaccines continue to grow strongly as we seek to maximise
ambition and has multi-billion-pound sales potential. uptake in those who need them. We achieve this by
Approximately 6 million of the 83 million US adults aged prioritising specific segments for growth opportunity, such
60 and older at risk have been vaccinated with Arexvy. as a return to travel and strengthened recommendations for
Launches are also underway across Europe and Canada, hepatitis in the adult segment, and increasing awareness
and the vaccine has been approved in Japan and several of the importance of vaccination. We’re also working to
other countries. We’re strengthening relationships with maintain our strong performance in key markets by making
retailers, given our expertise in the older adult population sure we resource our teams for success and that we can
through Shingrix. We’re also drawing on our expertise in deliver against our supply commitments.
respiratory diseases and the experience of our primary care
sales force. With further approvals and launches expected Meeting the needs of ageing populations by
in 2024, and increasing awareness of the impact of RSV prioritising prevention
on adults at increased risk, we look forward to seeing the
By focusing on prevention, we can reduce the burden of
impact this vaccine will have on helping to prevent the
disease and create a healthier, thriving world. Vaccination
severe consequences of RSV globally.
is a critical element for prevention of infectious diseases,
especially for children and older adults.
From the age of around 50, our immune system starts to
decline and becomes less effective, leading to increased
risk from infectious diseases. We focus our efforts on helping
to keep older adults healthy, moving from ‘sick care’ to true
healthcare by prioritising prevention and making adult
immunisation the standard of care. With the help of
vaccination, adults can remain active, healthy participants
in society and the economy – prolonging productivity,
contributing to local economies and reducing healthcare
costs. To improve uptake of adult immunisation, we are
working to build the investment case for vaccination, ease
access, and increase belief in the importance of vaccines.
35Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Performance: Vaccines continued
To support healthcare professionals to routinely initiate This year we commissioned research that spotlights
vaccination conversations with their patients and build hyperlocal factors contributing to – or inhibiting – adult
broader belief in the importance of vaccination, we held immunisation uptake in five diverse, geographically
Vaccine Virtual Days 2023. These bring together healthcare representative cities across the world. This research builds
professionals and experts from the international vaccine upon existing global frameworks and progresses vital
community to discuss and present important updates, initiatives, such as the UN Decade on Ageing and WHO
data and trends in adult immunisation. We’ve also Age-Friendly Cities Network.
continued our series of Vaccinology Master Classes, helping
As part of COiMMUNITY, we’re also supporting public
to better equip healthcare professionals for conversations
health efforts by making data on vaccination trends
with their patients about vaccines.
available through the Vaccine Track platform and
Adult immunisation rates in the US still haven’t recovered sharing tools and resources with healthcare organisations
fully after the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2023, we to help them address gaps in adult immunisation.
commissioned a report, published with the IQVIA Institute The COiMMUNITY initiative builds on recent regulatory and
for Human Data Science and the Global Coalition on Aging. industry changes in the US that make vaccines more
It estimated that around 100 million fewer doses of some available and easier to access for Medicare and Medicaid
adult vaccines (excluding COVID-19 solutions) were beneficiaries and support community vaccine infrastructure.
administered in 2021 and 2022 than anticipated.
To help address this, we launched the COiMMUNITY
Initiative in the US which commits $1 million in grant funding
to national, state and local non-profit organisations to
address long-term barriers to immunisation, particularly
among older adults susceptible to declining immune
systems.
36Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Performance: Specialty Medicines
We continue to be global leaders
Specialty Medicines growth (excluding
in infectious diseases, respiratory
COVID-19 solutions) of 14% AER, 15% CER
and HIV medicines and have an
emerging portfolio of cancer
Continued growth momentum in HIV
medicines.
Growth acceleration in both oncology
Turnover and respiratory/immunology
£10.2bn
-9% AER, -8% CER
l HIV £6.4bn
l Respiratory/immunology and
other £3.0bn
l Oncology £731m
l Pandemic £44m
37Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Performance: Specialty Medicines continued
Key marketed products
Product Disease Total revenue Key information
Dovato HIV treatment £1.8bn +32% AER; +33% CER Dolutegravir-based two-drug regimen. Now launched in over
55 markets
Nucala Respiratory eosinophil- £1.7bn +16% AER; +18% CER The only treatment to be indicated in the US and Europe for
driven diseases use across four IL-5 mediated diseases (see page 23)
Triumeq HIV treatment £1.5bn -14% AER; -14% CER Dolutegravir-based fixed-dose combination tablets.
Marketed in over 65 countries
Tivicay HIV treatment £1.4bn flat% AER; +2% CER Dolutegravir tablet for use in combination with other
antiretroviral agents. Marketed in over 70 countries
Benlysta Lupus and lupus nephritis £1.3bn +18% AER; +19% CER Only biologic approved to treat both SLE and LN, in the US,
Europe and elsewhere
Cabenuva HIV treatment £708m >100% AER;>100% CER First and only complete long-acting injectable regimen
(Vocabria + Rekambys in (cabotegravir, rilpivirine). Marketed in over 25 countries
Europe and Japan)
Juluca HIV treatment £661m +4% AER; +4% CER Dolutegravir-based two-drug regimen. Marketed in 30
countries
Zejula Ovarian cancer £523m +13% AER; +15% CER PARP inhibitor commercially available in 1L maintenance in
37 markets and in 2L maintenance in 31 markets
Apretude HIV prevention £149m >100% AER; >100% CER First and only long-acting injectable (cabotegravir) for HIV
prevention. Launched in the US in 2022
Jemperli Endometrial cancer £141m >100% AER; >100% CER PD-1-blocking antibody available in 25 countries that is
continuing to be investigated for future monotherapy and
combination regimens in multiple tumour types
Rukobia HIV treatment £117m +43% AER; +44% CER Extended-release tablets for people living with multi-drug
resistant HIV-1 for use in combination with other
antiretrovirals. Launched in 16 markets
Xevudy COVID-19 treatment £44m -98% AER; -98% CER Monoclonal antibody for the early treatment of COVID-19
Blenrep Blood cancer – multiple £36m -69% AER; -69% CER An antibody-drug conjugate for patients with relapsed or
myeloma refractory multiple myeloma
Ojjaara/Omjjara Myelofibrosis £33m Approved in the US, EU and UK as the first and only
treatment specifically indicated for myelofibrosis patients
with anaemia
Jesduvroq/Duvroq Anaemia due to chronic £26m 18% AER; 27% CER Approved in the US in 2023 for the treatment of anaemia of
kidney disease (CKD) chronic kidney disease (CKD) in adult patients on dialysis
Sales performance Respiratory/immunology and other sales were up 16% AER,
18% CER to £3 billion with consistent and sustained double-
While reported Speciality Medicines sales were down 9%
digit growth for both Benlysta and Nucala. Nucala grew 18%
AER, 8% CER at £10,224 million total, excluding COVID-19
to £1.7 billion with continued strong growth in all regions
solutions they grew 14% AER, 15% CER at £10,200 million.
reflecting high patient demand in severe eosinophilic
HIV sales grew 12% AER, 13% CER to £6.4 billion, primarily asthma and from the new indications. Benlysta grew 19% to
driven by a 2 percentage point increase in market share £1.3 billion representing strong demand in US and Europe
within a broadly flat global treatment market, attributable and continued market expansion.
to patient demand for the oral two-drug regimen (Dovato,
Oncology sales grew 23% to £731 million, driven by strong
Juluca) and long-acting medicines (Cabenuva, Apretude).
growth from Jemperli and Zejula and uptake of Ojjaara post
Oral two-drug regimen and long-acting medicine sales
US launch in Q3 2023, partially offset by the impact of
grew 40% to £3.3 billion now representing 55% of the total
Blenrep withdrawal from the US market in November 2022.
HIV portfolio.
Growth of Jemperli continued to accelerate particularly in
the US following approval in Q3. Zejula sales grew 15% to
£523 million with strong growth from all regions. US growth
in the first line indication more than offset the reduction in
use in second line following the update to US prescribing
information agreed with the FDA in Q4 2022.
38Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Performance: Specialty Medicines continued
Our strategy for growth Benlysta remains the only biologic approved for both
systemic lupus erythematosus and lupus nephritis In 2023,
Our portfolio of Specialty Medicines focuses on four
Benlysta saw consistent growth across all major markets,
therapeutic areas: infectious diseases, HIV, respiratory/
with over 14,000 US patients starting therapy in 2023.
immunology and oncology. We are reinforcing our strength
We’re focused on helping to identify and treat patients
and leadership in infectious diseases, respiratory and HIV,
earlier, before lupus progresses and organ damage occurs
and building our emerging capabilities in oncology to
(see page 24).
drive growth.
In oncology, Jemperli continues to demonstrate its potential
34% of sales come from Specialty Medicines, which we
as the backbone of our ongoing immuno-oncology-based
expect to provide durable and profitable growth over the
research and development programme. Used alone and in
next five years. We drive growth by accelerating our pipeline
combination with standard of care and future novel cancer
as well as prioritising business development, targeting
therapies, it has the potential to transform patients’ lives
acquisitions and partnerships to strengthen and
across multiple tumour types, including endometrial cancer.
complement our core therapy areas, and helping to
In 2023, Jemperli plus chemotherapy was approved in the
deliver above and beyond our current long-term outlooks.
US, EU and UK as the first and only immuno-oncology
Our acquisition of Bellus Health, announced in April 2023,
regimen for the treatment of frontline primary advanced
for example, builds on our respiratory expertise and
or recurrent dMMR/MSI-H endometrial cancer. These
complements our broader respiratory pipeline. We’re
approvals have been a significant driver of performance
increasingly confident that this will be a major source
and sales growth in oncology.
of new long-term growth.
Ojjaara/Omjjara, a JAK- and ACVR1-inhibitor, acquired
Drivers of growth across the portfolio through the purchase of Sierra Oncology in April 2022, is
In HIV, our strategy for growth is built on our innovative now approved in the US, EU and UK to treat myelofibrosis
portfolio of medicines that are transforming HIV treatment with anaemia. This makes Ojjaara the only medicine
and prevention with strong competitive execution. specifically indicated for both newly diagnosed and
previously treated myelofibrosis patients with anaemia
Launched in 2019, our dolutegravir-based oral two-drug that addresses the anaemia, constitutional symptoms and
regimen, Dovato, continues to perform strongly, enabling splenomegaly (enlarged spleen) that are the hallmarks of
people living with HIV to remain virally suppressed with this complex blood cancer. The line-agnostic label was
fewer medicines. broader than anticipated, expanding the opportunity to
reach more patients with a novel treatment option.
Our long-acting portfolio of medicines are central to our
Additional regulatory filings were initiated in 2023, with an
growth and are delivering strong results as they launch
aim in 2024 to expand access to patients in other markets.
across our markets.
In ovarian cancer, Zejula continues to provide a significant
Cabenuva, the world’s first and only complete long-acting
opportunity for first-line maintenance therapy, reaching
regimen for HIV treatment is available in the US, Europe,
more than 15,000 patients every month. We’re working to
Japan, China and Australia. Two-monthly Cabenuva
develop other combination therapies with Zejula in women's
addresses the challenges associated with daily oral therapy,
cancers and other solid tumours.
including fear of disclosure, adherence anxiety and pill
fatigue. To ensure we focus on areas where we can make the
biggest impact for patients, we’ve withdrawn our filing for
Apretude is the world’s only long-acting medicine for HIV
Jesduvroq in the EU, and will stop filing in other markets
prevention offering superior efficacy to daily oral prevention
because other medicines are already available for patients
(FTC/TDF tablets) and two-monthly dosing. In 2023
living with anaemia of CKD.
Apretude expanded beyond the US with approval in Europe
and several sub-Saharan Africa countries as an important
lever to end the global epidemic.
In respiratory/immunology, our market-leading medicines
Nucala and Benlysta continued to deliver double-digit
growth.
Nucala, the only targeted biologic therapy approved for use
across four IL-5 mediated diseases (eosinophil disease),
continues to drive growth. Consistent evidence across
multiple indications combined with market-leading safety
data reinforce Nucala as the biologic of choice for HCPs.
The severe asthma market continues to grow in the US and
in other markets, which offer opportunities for Nucala to
help more patients.
39Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Performance: General Medicines
From antibiotics to inhaled
medicines for asthma and COPD, Growth driven by both respiratory and
other general medicines
we have over 150 general medicine
products, many of them leaders in
Ongoing strong demand for Trelegy
their class, making life better for in all regions; Anoro in Europe and
millions of people worldwide. International
Continued post pandemic recovery
Turnover of the antibiotic market in Europe and
International regions
£10.2bn
+1% AER, +5% CER
l Respiratory £6.8bn
l Other General Medicines £3.4bn
40Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Performance: General Medicines continued
Key marketed products
Product Disease Total revenue Key information
Trelegy Ellipta COPD, asthma £2.2bn +27% AER; +29% CER Most prescribed single inhaler triple therapy (SITT) worldwide,
reaching an estimated 8.6 million patients since launch
Seretide/Advair Asthma, COPD £1.1bn -2% AER; +1% CER One of the market-leading ICS/LABA1 treatments worldwide
by sales value
Relvar/Breo Ellipta Asthma, COPD £1.1bn -4% AER; -2% CER One of the leading ICS/LABA treatments worldwide by sales
value
Ventolin Asthma, COPD £749m -3% AER; — CER Global market-leading SABA2 reliever by sales value
Augmentin Common bacterial £628m +9% AER; +17% CER Global leader in oral antibiotics by sales value, available in
infections over 95 countries
Anoro Ellipta COPD £557m +15% AER; +16% CER Global market leader in the LAMA/LABA3 class by volume
(unit sales), approved in over 70 countries
Avodart & Duodart Benign prostatic £345m +5% AER; +7% CER Market leaders by sales value in the global dutasteride and
hyperplasia (BPH) dutasteride+tamsulosin FDC4 market respectively, and
approved in over 101 and 88 countries respectively
Avamys/Veramyst Allergic rhinitis £299m -7% AER; -4% CER Global leader in the inhaled corticosteroids prescription class
by sales value
Dermovate, Betnovate, Inflammatory skin £195m -3% AER, +6% CER Global leader in topical corticosteroids across 60 markets
Cutivate, Eumovate conditions globally by value of sales, excluding the US
(1) ICS/LABA: inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta agonists
(2)SABA: short-acting beta agonist
(3)LABA/LAMA: long-acting beta agonists/long-acting muscarinic antagonists
(4)FDC: fixed-dose combination
Key information source IQVIA
Sales performance
Our strategy for impact
General Medicines sales grew 1% AER, 5% CER to
£10.2 billion, reflecting growth of Trelegy and the single Our General Medicines portfolio includes medicines that
inhaler triple therapy class across all regions, and of Anoro are typically prescribed in primary care. In 2023, General
in Europe and International. Medicines contributed over one third of GSK's sales, helping
to fund growth and investment in R&D and returns to
Trelegy grew 27% AER, 29% CER to £2.2 billion with growth
shareholders.
delivered across all regions, reflecting increased patient
demand, growth of the SITT market and penetration We expect our combination of more than 150 products,
of the class. several of which are market leaders, to have a positive
impact on the lives of hundreds of millions of patients over
Seretide/Advair sales decreased 2% AER but increased
the next 10 years. We supply our products in more than
1% CER at £1.1 billion, primarily reflecting favourable US
100 countries, and they comprise over 80% of our total
pricing. However this was offset by generic erosion impacts
medicines and vaccines supply volume. Every day, these
in Europe and certain International markets.
medicines improve health and make life better for millions
Other General Medicines decreased 5% AER, but grew of people all over the world.
2% CER at £3.4 billion reflecting ongoing post pandemic
demand for anti-infectives in Europe and International, Together, respiratory and infectious diseases therapeutics
and certain third party manufacturing arrangements. generate 73% of our General Medicines revenue. With
Overall growth in this product group continues to be expected growth from Trelegy, Anoro and the established
impacted by ongoing generic competition. products portfolio in emerging markets, we are committed
to positively impacting more lives every day.
We focus investment in our brands that are growing strongly
to maximise returns, while managing the expected decline
of other products in mature markets as they lose their
exclusivity.
41Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Performance: General Medicines continued
Drivers of growth across the portfolio Augmentin is a global leader in oral antibiotics by sales
value4 and is available in 95 countries. It has reached over
Our main sources of growth in General Medicines in 2023
2.65 billion patients since launching more than 40 years ago
were Trelegy, Anoro and Augmentin.
and continues to grow strongly across regions. Augmentin
Trelegy, our SITT for asthma and COPD, delivered sales grew 9% AER, 17% CER to £628 million with strong ongoing
of over £2 billion for the first time in 2023. Trelegy has demand across all regions.
continued to accelerate strongly, with growth in all regions
Since its launch in 1969, Ventolin remains an important
including the US, and is the third biggest growth driver in
medicine for patients in more than 100 countries.
our portfolio. Trelegy is licensed in 60 countries for COPD,
A significant proportion of our carbon emissions come from
with dual indications for asthma and COPD in 19 countries,
including the US and Japan1. We received several new our Ventolin metered dose inhalers (MDIs). We have started
an R&D programme to redevelop our Ventolin MDIs with a
approvals in 2023, further expanding Trelegy’s availability to
asthma patients in Turkey, Hong Kong, Bahrain and Kuwait.2 lower global warming potential (GWP) propellant, which is
now in clinical assessment. If successful, this could reduce
Trelegy is the number one SITT globally, selling over 21 greenhouse gas emissions from our rescue MDIs by
million packs – more than twice the volume of the nearest approximately 90%.
competitor3. Trelegy is the market leader in our two largest
markets, the US and Japan, with market shares significantly
exceeding the next-largest competitor (83% and 67%,
respectively). In November 2022, the Global Initiative for
Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) guidelines
recommended triple therapy over ICS/LABA for
exacerbating patients. This has helped to continue the
growth of the SITT market which, six years after first launch,
is still growing at 41% year on year. We expect Trelegy
to be a key driver of growth in General Medicines in the
coming years.
Anoro is approved in approximately 70 countries to treat
symptomatic COPD. Anoro remains the global market
leader in the LAMA/LABA class by volume (unit sales)4,
with continued growth in global sales (excluding US). Anoro
has a robust clinical data profile, which includes head-to-
head data in the LAMA/LABA class and versus other
common initial maintenance therapy options, such as
LAMA.
(1) Regulatory Data on File. Latest update 25 August 2023 for Asthma and
July 2022 for COPD
(2)Regulatory Data on File, Latest update 25 August 2023
(3)IQVIA Patient Volume Data as of 6 October 2023
(4)Source: IQVIA
42Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Operations: Manufacturing and supply
Our global supply chain is critical In 2023, we made significant progress in bringing together
our vaccines and medicines supply chains to create one
to the successful manufacture and
global supply chain. This integration helps drive efficiency
supply of our vaccines and medicines. and ensures we have the capacity and capabilities,
including the best digital and technology capabilities,
It enables us to deliver reliable,
to deliver our new products.
high-quality products to meet
Our global network of 37 vaccines and medicines
patients’ needs and maintain manufacturing sites delivered more than 500 million vaccine
our performance. doses and 1.8 billion packs of medicines to help make a
positive impact on the health of millions of people.
Investing for future productivity
We are investing in our manufacturing and supply chain
to increase productivity and efficiency. In 2023 we opened
a $100 million adjuvant manufacturing facility in Hamilton,
in the US. It means we can produce the QS-21 adjuvant
in-house, contributing to our RSV, shingles, malaria and
cervical cancer vaccines.
In late 2022, we opened a manufacturing and testing
facility at Jurong in Singapore to produce a cytotoxic agent
for antibody drug conjugates needed for next-generation
cancer treatments. And at our Tuas site, also in Singapore,
we’ve begun building a new vaccine manufacturing facility
for our hepatitis B vaccines which will feature the latest
advanced technology and be sustainable by design.
43Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Operations: Manufacturing and supply continued
At Ware in the UK, we opened a new oral solid dose facility, Supporting innovation
bringing together R&D and supply chain specialists to use
Our global supply chain plays a central role in bringing our
new technologies and rapid knowledge transfer to deliver
innovations to patients as quickly, efficiently and effectively
new medicines faster and more efficiently.
as possible. The teams are involved early in product
And at our Wavre site in Belgium, we’ve started building development, working with R&D to make sure that what
a €250 million freeze-drying centre, using automation works in clinical trials can be produced commercially at
and robotics, to create more capacity for adult vaccines. scale.
At Barnard Castle in the UK, our multi-million-pound Q In 2023 we supplied our RSV vaccine Arexvy in record time
Block smart manufacturing facility started commercial to more than 20 countries, including the US, the EU and
production in 2023, and immunology products are now Canada, following regulatory approvals.
being shipped to patients around the world. The facility
We are also bringing on additional capacity to deliver
uses digital technology and robotics to make production
Jemperli to more patients around the world following
more efficient.
regulatory approvals in the US and Europe.
We are exceeding targets in our ongoing programme of
And we worked with external manufacturing partners to
productivity and efficiency improvements. This year, the
deliver supply chain excellence for the US launch of Ojjaara.
programme delivered £101 million in savings across
Medicines and Vaccines. Embracing technology and data
Site productivity increased by 9.3% during the year. By harnessing the power of technology and data, we
are transforming our manufacturing and supply chain.
Promoting quality, safety and reliability
By identifying and implementing the best digital and
Quality, safety and reliable supply are critical to meeting technology capabilities, we can unlock growth for patients,
patients’ needs, and to creating competitive advantage. shareholders and our people.
Our reliability remains strong, with an on-time, in-full (OTIF) We are also working to industrialise new platform
measure of 99.3% for Specialty Medicines, 98.4% for technologies such as oligonucleotides in medicines and
General Medicines and 92.3% for Vaccines. Our deviation mRNA and MAPS in vaccines. As MAPS clinical trials
rates improved for Medicines and increased marginally for continue at the new Binney Street site in Cambridge, US,
Vaccines with clear action plans for improvement in 2024. we plan to scale up production and bring MAPS to market.
For information on product governance, see the Responsible
We’re using digital twins to simulate processes, anticipate
Business section on page 55.
issues and use what we learn to accelerate manufacturing.
We’ve also received external recognition. In 2023, we The technology helps increase production yields for both
featured in Gartner’s Top 25 Supply Chain companies, our vaccines and medicines.
based on financial metrics, ESG criteria, and opinion from
We’re also investing in automation and robotics at our sites,
industry analysts and experts.
improving ergonomics, increasing efficiency and helping us
to deliver more medicines and vaccines to patients around
the world.
Increasing our environmental sustainability
Our manufacturing sites have a key role in our contribution
to a net zero, nature positive, healthier planet, and
environmental sustainability is a fundamental part of our
global supply chain strategy. See our Responsible Business
section on page 45 for more information on carbon
emissions, water use and waste. We’re also investing in
plans to improve natural habitats, protect biodiversity
and improve soil and water quality near our sites.
+For more on our approach to sustainability and progress made at our sites,
see our ESG Performance Report
44Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Responsible ESG is embedded in our
strategy. It helps us deliver
our purpose and supports
business
our sustainable performance
and long-term growth.
45Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Responsible business
Our approach We continue to evolve our ESG Performance Rating to ensure
it meets the expectations of our stakeholders. The executive
We are a global biopharma company with a purpose
leadership team and the Board, via the Corporate
to unite science, technology and talent to get ahead of
Responsibility Committee, review the metrics that make
disease together. To deliver our purpose, we need to
up this Rating each year to ensure they are sufficiently
consider ESG impacts across everything we do, from the lab
challenging and ambitious. This year, we have removed two
to the patient. That’s why ESG is embedded in our strategy
metrics, relating to Access and Ethical standards, and added
and supports our sustainable performance and long-term
one relating to anti-microbial resistance (AMR). We met one
growth. It helps us to build trust with and generate value for
of our 2022 metrics relating to Access by developing and
our stakeholders, reduce risk to our operations and create
publishing pricing and access principles. We have also
positive social impact.
removed one of our Ethical standards metrics that tracks the
We have identified six ESG focus areas that address what is number of employees leaving GSK for misconduct. Increases
most material to our business and the issues that matter the or decreases in this number could indicate either a higher/
most to our stakeholders. These focus areas are core to our lower number of breaches or stronger/weaker enforcement
strategy and are where we can have the greatest positive of our processes, so setting a threshold is not an effective
impact on some of society’s most urgent challenges, measure for success in upholding our standards. We continue
including those set out in the UN Sustainable Development to monitor this data internally and publish it externally.
Goals (UN SDGs). They are: We have three additional metrics which provide a strong
measure of our commitment to ethical standards. We have
–Access to healthcare
added a metric within Global health and health security,
–Global health and health security focused on AMR. AMR is an urgent public health threat, and
we have seen increased stakeholder interest in our approach.
–Environment
We updated our biodiversity target as we achieved it in 2022.
–Diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) Our new target focuses on deforestation free sourcing of
paper and palm oil.
–Ethical standards
–Product governance. How we assess performance
The GSK Leadership Team (GLT) is accountable for
These focus areas were informed by our most recent
delivering progress against the metrics and regularly reviews
materiality assessment in 2022, which reaffirmed that
performance along with the Board’s Corporate
the most material issues for our business were well aligned
Responsibility Committee (CRC). Each individual metric is
with our six ESG focus areas. We recognise that being
assessed as either: on track (metric met or exceeded); on
a responsible business is not a static requirement. This
track with work to do (at least 80% of metric has been
means that we will continue to evolve our approach in
achieved); or off track (metric missed by more than 20%).
response to the rapidly changing operating environment
and strive for continuous improvement to ensure we In addition, in order to calculate the overall ESG
maintain strong ESG performance. Performance Rating, performance across all metrics is
aggregated to a single score to illustrate whether we are
Our ESG Performance Rating
on track, on track with work to do, or off track. This rating
is defined below:
Our ESG Performance Rating helps us integrate ESG into
the delivery of our strategy and allows us to measure and On track: 70% or more of all metrics are on track
verify the progress we are making. The rating is one of our
On track with work to do: more than 50% of all metrics
corporate KPIs and measures progress against key metrics
are either on track, or on track with work to do
aligned to each of our six focus areas. In 2023, this included
22 metrics, which are summarised in our ESG Performance Off track: more than 50% of all metrics are off track
Report.
2023 ESG Performance Rating
Our 2023 ESG Performance Rating is on track, based on Assessment of performance against our annual targets
95% of all performance metrics being met or exceeded. has been reviewed, and the overall ESG Performance
Rating score has been subject to independent limited
assurance for 2023.
+For full details of progress against our six focus areas, our ESG Performance Rating and 22 metrics and independent limited assurance reports, see our ESG Performance
Report
46Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Responsible business continued
External benchmarking
Detailed below is how we perform in key ESG ratings –FTSE4Good: Member of FTSE4Good Index since 2004
that we are frequently asked about by investors:
–CDP: A- in Climate change, A- in Water security,
–Access to Medicines: Ranked 1st in the Access to B in Forests (palm oil) and B in Forests (timber)
Medicines Index in 2022 and an industry leader in the
–Sustainalytics: Low risk rating
2021 Antimicrobial Resistance Benchmark
–MSCI: AA rating
–S&P Corporate Sustainability Assessment: Ranked 1st
in the pharmaceuticals industry with a score of 84 (as of –Moody's Analytics: ESG Overall Score of 62 (out of 100;
24 November 2023) and included in the DJSI World and sector average 38)
Europe indices
–ISS Corporate Rating: B+ rating
Access
We aim to positively impact the health of 2.5 billion people Providing access for patients in lower income countries
by the end of 2030. We will do this by making our vaccines We collaborate with global health partners, including
and medicines available as widely as possible, through NGOs and generic manufacturers, to increase our reach
responsible pricing, strategic access programmes and to patients in lower income countries. In 2023, we reached
partnerships. 89 million people with our vaccines and antiretrovirals in
lower income countries.
Our commitment
Make our products available at value-based prices that Vaccines
are sustainable for our business and implement access We reserve our lowest vaccine prices for Gavi, the vaccine
strategies that increase the use of our medicines and alliance, and similar organisations. We have partnered with
vaccines to treat and protect underserved people Gavi since its foundation in 2000 and have supplied more
than one billion vaccine doses to date at our lowest prices
Our ESG Performance Rating metric
to the lowest income countries.
–Progress towards our 2030 goal of reaching 1.3 billion
people in lower income countries with our products In 2023, through our partnership we significantly increased
our supply to deliver around 5 million doses of Cervarix,
Progress in 2023
a critical vaccine in lower income countries for addressing
Putting the right value on innovation cervical cancer.
We set responsible prices in line with the benefits we In 2023, we supplied around 41 million doses of our
bring to patients and health systems, measured by clinical, pneumococcal vaccine, Synflorix, to eight Gavi-eligible
economic and social outcomes. We compare our offer to countries at our lowest price. Our vaccine against rotavirus,
what is already available for patients and we generate Rotarix, reaches children across 25 Gavi-eligible countries
evidence from clinical trials to establish the added value and four former Gavi countries. We have offered vaccines
provided by our medicines and vaccines. We adjust our to civil society organisations serving refugees and working
pricing in line with the socio-economic status of a country in other emergency situations through the Humanitarian
to ensure affordability and availability. Mechanism since 2017. We are also a long-standing supplier
We operate under robust pricing approvals, developing of oral polio vaccines through UNICEF and, in 2023 alone,
access plans informed by payers. We also work to create supplied around 130 million doses to help eradicate polio.
stability and predictability for payers and our business, Neglected tropical diseases
engaging proactively on upcoming product launches for
In 2023, we donated 615 million albendazole tablets to help
budget planning, and adjusting prices to account for
tackle lymphatic filariasis (LF), soil transmitted helminths
inflation. In the US in 2023, our combined average net price
and echinococcosis, taking the total we have donated to
(after discounts, rebates or other allowances) for our
over 11 billion.
pharmaceutical and vaccines portfolio increased by 0.4%,
while the average list price increased by 3.2%, compared We remain committed to supplying albendazole to endemic
with 5.4% (list) for the industry. Over the past five years, countries until LF is eliminated everywhere. So far, LF has
the average net price for our products increased by 0.3% been eliminated in 19 countries including Bangladesh and
annually, while the average list price rose by 3.3%, Lao PDR, who announced elimination of the disease in 2023
compared with 4.7% (list) for the industry. – significant milestones in our collaborative effort to get
ahead of disease together. The number of tablets we are
donating is declining each year, given the gradual
eradication of the neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) that
the medicine is targeting.
47Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Responsible business continued
The programme has benefited over 935 million people by GSK and our partners, Mosquirix is a significant scientific
since it began, according to WHO data. breakthrough – it is the world’s first malaria vaccine and first
vaccine against any human parasite.
HIV
In 2023, Aurobindo, Cipla and Viatris, three generic In July 2023, Gavi announced that up to nine more African
manufacturers, signed sub-licences of ViiV Healthcare’s countries are to be allocated doses of Mosquirix from early
licence with the Medicines Patent Pool (MPP) to develop, 2024. We have committed to supply a total of 18 million
manufacture and supply generic versions of cabotegravir doses to Gavi-eligible countries between 2023 and 2025,
long-acting for HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis (cabotegravir with a plan to produce 15 million doses annually from 2026
LA for PrEP) in 90 countries, subject to obtaining regulatory to 2028.
approvals. ViiV Healthcare also works with global health
In 2023, a landmark study by the London School of Hygiene
agencies, NGOs, governments and community partners to
& Tropical Medicine showed that combining Mosquirix with
plan for and support the introduction of ViiV-manufactured
antimalarial drugs in areas of Africa with seasonal malaria
cabotegravir LA for PrEP introduction into national
reduced malaria cases and deaths in young children over
programmes. In late 2023, our first orders of cabotegravir
a period of five years.
LA for PrEP were delivered to a global partner for
programmatic use in low- and middle-income countries. These findings confirm the potential of seasonal vaccination
to provide a high level of protection over the first five years
ViiV Healthcare also has voluntary licensing agreements
of life, when this protection is much needed.
with 15 generic manufacturers to produce and sell low-cost
single or fixed-dose combination products containing our Helping to strengthen healthcare systems
HIV medicine dolutegravir for adults. These agreements In 2023, GSK and ViiV Healthcare joined forces with The
cover 95 low- and middle-income countries, with one direct Global Fund to pledge $7.5 million over three years to create
licence and the others via the MPP. There are similar the Gender Equality Fund, which will support community-
agreements with 14 generic manufacturers for children, based and -led organisations that are working to deliver
covering 123 countries, as well as separate agreements lasting changes in health policies and programmes focusing
to enable greater access to dolutegravir in certain upper on TB, HIV and malaria for women and girls in all their
middle-income countries. In total, around 24 million people diversity. The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation has
living with HIV across 128 countries had access to a generic committed to match this donation. We also renewed our
product containing dolutegravir by the end of 2023. This is partnership with Save the Children for another five years.
more than 90% of people living with HIV on antiretrovirals Building on learnings over the last decade, we are focusing
in generic-accessible low- and middle-income countries. our partnership on reducing the number of ‘zero dose’
children – those who have never received a vaccine –
Malaria
in Ethiopia and Nigeria, which represent more than a third
To date, over two million children in Ghana, Kenya and
of the zero-dosed children in Africa.
Malawi have been reached with at least one dose of
Mosquirix (RTS,S/AS01E) through the WHO-coordinated +For full details of our progress in our six focus areas, please see our ESG
Performance Report
Malaria Vaccine Implementation Programme. Developed
Global health and health security
We want to help address the biggest health challenges Progress in 2023
faced by people around the world.
Global health R&D
Our commitment In 2022, with ViiV Healthcare, we announced an investment
of £1 billion over 10 years to accelerate global health R&D.
To develop novel products and technologies to treat and
By the end of 2023, we had invested 21%1 of this and
prevent priority diseases, including pandemic threats
progressed 11 Global Health pipeline assets to address
Our ESG Performance Rating metrics priority WHO diseases, including climate-aggravated
–Progress six Global Health pipeline assets to address diseases that have a disproportionate impact on lower
priority WHO diseases income countries.
–Progress eight active R&D projects that address Promising avenues for tuberculosis prevention and
pathogens prioritised by WHO and CDC as posing treatment
the highest level of concern due to drug resistance
GSK is committed to tackling tuberculosis (TB), one of the
(critical and/or urgent threats)
world’s deadliest diseases. We have developed a promising
candidate vaccine, M72/AS01E, up to proof of concept
(phase IIb). Building on our long-standing, successful history
of working with external partners we have partnered with
the Bill and Melinda Gates Medical Research Institute (MRI)
for its further development.
(1) Budget phasing is not linear across the 10 year period.
48Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Responsible business continued
Gates MRI is well positioned to lead the large and complex We have more than 30 R&D projects across medicines and
phase III study required. In June 2023, Wellcome and the vaccines that are relevant to AMR, ranging from early- to
Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation announced funding of late-stage development, with 12 R&D projects targeting
up to $550 million for phase III trials. If these trials are pathogens deemed ‘critical’ or ‘urgent’ by the WHO and
successful, M72/AS01E could be the first new vaccine to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
help prevent pulmonary TB in over a century.
These include gepotidacin, which could be the first novel
Breakthroughs in malaria research and treatment oral antibiotic treatment for uncomplicated urinary tract
In August 2023, we announced that GSK scientists had infections (UTIs) in over 20 years. Positive phase III data
discovered a strain of a naturally occurring bacterium that from the EAGLE-2 and EAGLE-3 trials were presented at the
could potentially help eradicate the disease. The Tres European Congress of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious
Cantos 1 (TC1) strain of the Delftia tsuruhatensis bacterium Diseases in Copenhagen in April 2023.
significantly reduces the load of P. falciparum malaria
In March 2023, we announced an exclusive licence
parasites in mosquitoes. This could potentially inhibit
agreement with Scynexis for Brexafemme (ibrexafungerp
transmission of the parasite to humans. We continue to
tablets), a first-in-class antifungal for the treatment of
pursue this ground-breaking research while engaging with
vulvovaginal candidiasis (VVC) and for reduction in the
global health institutions and partners to identify the most
incidence of recurrent VVC.
effective and sustainable approach for development and
mobilisation if successful. Progressing vaccines against enteric diseases to reduce
the burden of antimicrobial resistance
Supporting innovation through capacity and capability
Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is a major threat to health
building
globally, and it is particularly prevalent in low-resource
Through our Africa Open Lab initiative, launched in 2014, we
settings. We continue to progress candidate vaccines
support early-career scientists based in sub-Saharan Africa
against several enteric diseases which contribute to the
focusing on infectious diseases that disproportionately
burden of AMR, including invasive non-typhoidal
affect sub-Saharan populations, such as malaria, TB and
salmonella, klebsiella, shigella, typhoid and paratyphoid
AMR. In 2023, we agreed grants to ten researchers in six
fever. In 2023, it was announced that we are partnering
countries in sub-Saharan Africa and announced a further
with LimmaTech Biologics for the further development of
call for proposals in November. We are also working with
a candidate vaccine against shigellosis, while we continue
African academic institutions to provide grantees with
to develop another candidate vaccine against the disease
supplemental training in areas including epidemiology,
which uses our vaccine platform technology, GMMA.
statistics and clinical research.
Currently, there are no vaccines to help prevent shigellosis,
Strengthening health security a disease which causes 600,000 deaths each year.
There are many factors that can jeopardise our health See page 17 for more about our R&D pipeline.
security – from new and emerging infectious diseases to
+For full details of our progress in our six focus areas, please see our ESG
the rise of AMR. Our primary contribution to strengthening
Performance Report
health security is through our innovation to prevent and
mitigate infectious disease.
Environment
Climate change and nature loss are an urgent threat to –Average of the percentage of GSK sites and suppliers
human health, as well as a risk to business resilience. To get compliant with wastewater active pharmaceutical
ahead of disease and to help ensure long-term business ingredient limits and the percentage of suppliers that
success, we need to take action on climate and nature. are compliant with the AMR Industry Alliance Common
Antibiotic Manufacturing Framework and discharge limits
Our commitment
–Percentage of paper and palm oil deforestation free
Commit to a net zero, nature positive, healthier planet
with ambitious goals set for 2030 and 2045 –Operational waste and material reduction at our sites
Our ESG Performance Rating metrics1
–Operational emissions reduction (Scope 1 and 2 market-
based emissions)
–Industrialisation of low-carbon Ventolin initiated, and
clinical and non-clinical data available to support
regulatory submissions
–Percentage of carbon offset volume in project pipeline (1) These metrics are related to the ESG Performance Rating outlined in
our ESG Performance Report 2023. We also measure and report
performance against our public environmental sustainability targets,
which we publish on gsk.com
49Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Responsible business continued
Progress in 2023 Our overall Scope 3 emissions are 10% lower than our
baseline year of 2020, although there was a 4% increase
Climate
in 2022 (our latest available data) compared to 2021.
We have a clear pathway to a net zero impact on climate
This was primarily driven by higher sales of metered dose
with ambitious goals for 2030 and 2045.
inhaler (MDI) products. Although overall Scope 3 emissions
In 2023, the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) increased from 2021 to 2022, in the same period, we
approved GSK’s net zero target for 2045 in line with its reduced upstream Scope 3 emissions from our suppliers.
Corporate Net-Zero Standard, the world’s only framework
The goods and services we buy to make our medicines and
for corporate net zero target setting in line with climate
vaccines, and additional upstream emissions, account for
science.
approximately 31% of our total emissions footprint. In 2023,
Our value chain carbon footprint1 is made up of: our supply chain emissions fell by 2%.
–Scope 1 and 2 emissions from our own operations (7%) The use of our medicines and vaccines makes up 57% of
our total footprint. Most of this is from the propellant used in
–Scope 3 emissions from our supply chain (31%)
MDIs for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
–Scope 3 emissions from patients using our products (57%), (COPD).
mostly metered-dose inhalers (MDIs)
GSK’s rescue MDI medication, Ventolin (salbutamol) is an
–Scope 3 emissions from logistics (4%) essential medicine prescribed to approximately 35 million
people with respiratory conditions worldwide. Patient use of
–Scope 3 emissions from the disposal of our products (1%)
the inhaler, due to the current propellant, accounts for just
Targets2 under half (48%) of our carbon footprint. We are investing
in a low-carbon programme with the potential to reduce
–80% absolute reduction in greenhouse gas emissions
greenhouse gas emissions from the inhaler by 90% by
from a 2020 baseline, across all scopes, and investment in
transitioning to a next generation, lower carbon propellant.
nature-based solutions for the remaining 20% of our
Phase III trials will begin in 2024 and, if successful,
footprint by 2030
regulatory submissions will start in 2025. This is to
–100% imported renewable electricity by 2025 and 100% supplement our existing low carbon dry powder inhalers.
renewable electricity (imported and generated) by 2030
See pages 62 to 70 for our disclosure on climate risk and
(Scope 2)
resilience in line with the Task Force on Climate-related
–Net zero greenhouse gas emissions across our full value Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework.
chain by 2045: 90% absolute reduction in emissions from
a 2020 baseline, across all scopes, and all residual Nature
emissions neutralised In 2023, we shared more detail on our plan for contributing
to a nature-positive world, in line with the goal of the Global
Performance
Biodiversity Framework to halt and reverse biodiversity loss
In 2023, we reduced our Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions by by 2030.
10% compared with 2022, and by 27% compared with our
It sets out how we approach nature through four focus
2020 baseline. This was primarily from energy efficiency
areas – freshwater, land, oceans and atmosphere –
measures and increasing the amount of renewable
including the biodiversity of living species across these
electricity we use. As a member of the RE100 initiative, we
areas.3 We aim to deliver our contribution in three ways:
have committed to reach 100% of our imported electricity
avoiding or reducing our impact on nature, protecting and
from renewable sources by 2025 and 100% of all electricity
restoring nature, and helping to accelerate collaborative
we generate and import from renewable sources by 2030.
action. This approach is aligned with the work of the
In 2023, we reached 83% imported renewable electricity,
Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD)
an increase of 10% from 2022.
and the Science Based Targets Network (SBTN).
We signed a power purchase agreement to source
In May 2023 we were selected to be part of the first group
renewable electricity to cover 50% of our electricity demand
of companies to participate in the initial target validation
for our sites in Europe from mid-2026. Two additional wind
process with SBTN to set validated science-based targets
turbines and the new solar farm at our manufacturing
for nature, starting with targets for freshwater and land,
facility in Irvine, Scotland began generating renewable
followed by targets for oceans and biodiversity.
energy.
We have already started to implement the final TNFD
recommendations in our 2023 disclosure, which you can
read on page 70.
(1) Based on 2022 data
(2)The target boundary includes biogenic land-related emissions and
removals from bioenergy feedstocks
(3)We previously reported our Nature targets grouped by water, waste
and materials, and biodiversity. In 2023, we updated our target
categories to align with the four areas of nature as defined by TNFD
and SBTN, with underlying targets on waste and materials. The targets
remain the same
50Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Responsible business continued
Freshwater We have roadmaps in place to achieve 100% sustainably
We continue to work towards our existing water targets. sourced paper packaging and palm oil by 2025. In 2023,
86% of our paper packaging was derived from certified
Targets
sources or from recycled raw materials and 98% of our core
–Achieve good water stewardship at 100% of our sites palm oil materials were certified by third-parties as being
by 2025 from sustainable sources.
–Reduce overall water use in our operations by 20% While working with suppliers is a key part of our goal to
by 2030 reduce our impact on nature, where appropriate we will
also look at opportunities to reduce or avoid the use of some
–Be water neutral in our own operations and at key
natural materials, including through process efficiencies and
suppliers in water-stressed regions by 2030
synthetic alternatives. For example, we are working on a
–Zero impact API levels1 for all sites and key suppliers process improvement to deliver a significant yield increase,
by 2030 reducing our nature impact and improving supply resilience.
Performance Oceans
We achieved our overall water reduction target in 2022. We continue to deliver on our existing ocean target
In 2023, we reduced overall water use in our operations (set out below), and will apply the relevant science-based
by an additional 1% compared with 2022 and by 6% in sites methodology on oceans when it becomes available.
in high water stress regions. This is a decrease of 24% for
Target
overall water use and 11% for sites in high water stress
regions against our 2020 baseline. –100% of marine-derived materials sustainably sourced
by 2030
For our sites and key suppliers located in water-stressed
areas, we are developing catchment-level water Performance
replenishment, restoration and regeneration projects,
Our impacts and dependencies on oceans come primarily
including partnering with NGOs to deliver our water
from marine-derived materials that are a critical part of
neutrality target.
manufacturing vaccines and medicines. For example, we
In 2023, 87% of all sites and key suppliers were compliant use horseshoe crab blood, which is an important substance
with AMR Alliance and API Wastewater discharge limits. that is required by some regulators to be used in
This is down from 94% in 2022, primarily due to a scope pharmaceutical and biomedical quality control processes
expansion. This is driven by us expanding our scope to to ensure the quality and safety of medicines, vaccines
include more API suppliers which led to a decrease in the and devices. We continue to make progress on volume
percentage of key suppliers that were confirmed to be reductions, and we are advancing a pilot across five of our
within Wastewater API discharge limits. sites to test the use of non-animal alternatives. At the same
time, we are engaging with regulators to support wider
Our work to strengthen responsible manufacturing of
uptake of these alternatives.
antibiotics was highlighted as an example of good practice
in a 2023 report on the issue from the Access to Medicine While we make progress on reducing volumes and moving
Foundation’s AMR Benchmark. to synthetic alternatives, we are working with our suppliers
to improve sustainability. Our new Sustainable Sourcing
Land
Standards include a specific Marine Sustainable Sourcing
We continue to deliver on our existing land targets.
Standard which outlines the requirements that our suppliers
Targets of marine-derived materials must adhere to. As part of this,
–Positive impact on biodiversity at all sites2 by 2030 we conducted physical site audits of key suppliers in 2023.
Atmosphere
–100% of agricultural and forestry-derived materials
sustainably sourced and deforestation free by 2030 Air pollution is a significant risk to human health, particularly
for patients with respiratory conditions like asthma and COPD.
Performance
Performance
During 2023 we completed baseline assessments for six of
our sites, meaning we have now assessed all our sites, using Our approach to air pollution includes reducing pollutants
the Natural England Biodiversity Net Positive methodology. linked to burning of fossil fuels that will be addressed via our
In parallel, we have plans in place to improve biodiversity at SBTi-aligned climate targets (set out on page 50), as well as
nine of our manufacturing sites from 2022. looking more broadly at our air pollution footprint. We are
members of the Alliance for Clean Air through the Clean Air
We set out ambitious new Sustainable Sourcing Standards
Fund and the World Economic Forum. We have done an
for suppliers who provide us with materials that are highly
initial assessment to establish an air pollution footprint in our
dependent on nature, like lactose, gelatine and soy.
operations and our supply chain. We are creating reduction
plans that are aligned to our pathway to net zero and which
aim to have a positive impact on air quality.
(1) Below the predicted no-effect level
(2)GSK-owned sites
51Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Responsible business continued
Waste and materials Product stewardship
The overuse of natural resources and the generation of Our approach to product stewardship across both new
waste and pollution are key drivers of climate change and and existing products is built on a scientific method for
nature loss. environmental footprinting called Life Cycle Assessment
(LCA).
Targets
Since 2022 we have completed an LCA analysis of 22
Our approach to product stewardship means that we
products using the LCA methodology which has enabled
consider and aim to address impacts on nature and climate
us to identify where we need to improve the manufacturing
at every stage of the product lifecycle, from discovery,
design, to assess potential savings from design changes
design, sourcing and manufacturing through to product use
and provide product-level information to key customers on
and disposal. We have set a target to help accelerate the
specific products. 100% of GSK sites are now manufacturing
adoption of this approach:
PVC-free secondary and tertiary packaging.
–25% environmental impact reduction for our products
Waste
and packaging by 2030
In 2023, we reduced operational waste by 1% since last
We have also set targets to reduce operational and supply
year, a total of 21% since 2020. We increased the amount
chain waste:
of materials recovered by circular routes by 53%.
–Zero operational waste1, including eliminating single use
We have maintained zero operational waste to landfill
plastics2 by 2030
and we continue to build on our long-standing operational
–10% waste reduction from supply chain by 2030 waste management programme to identify opportunities
to find more beneficial uses for waste.
+For full details of our progress in our six focus areas, please see our ESG
+Performance Report
Diversity, equity and inclusion
We want to be an inclusive business where all our people Progress in 2023
can thrive, which ensures diversity in our clinical trials and
Clinical trial diversity
supports diverse communities.
We continue to make progress in advancing clinical trial
Our commitment diversity. We met our objective of 100% of the phase III
interventional trials initiated in 2023 having proactive
Create a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace;
diversity plans. We also are challenging ourselves to actively
enhance recruitment of diverse patient populations in
monitor patient recruitment in real time to ensure that we
our clinical trials; and support diverse communities
reach our diversity goals.
Our ESG Performance Rating metrics
In February 2023, we published a study of 17 years of GSK
–100% of phase III trials initiated in 2023 will have proactive
and ViiV Healthcare US clinical trial diversity data. It showed
plans in place designed to enrol appropriately diverse trial
that enrolling participants to clinical trials based on real-
participants, consistent with disease epidemiology
world disease epidemiology data, rather than census data,
–Improve year-on-year spend with US-based certified would ensure that those trials reflect the populations
diverse-owned suppliers affected by different diseases. By publicly sharing this
research, we hope to advance the discussion around clinical
–Update towards 2025 people aspirations through fair and
trial diversity and improve how the pharmaceutical sector
equitable opportunities:
approaches the issue of clinical trial diversity.
–aspire to have women hold at least 45% of VP-and-
above roles globally by the end of 2025 Supporting diversity in our supply chains
By engaging with and mentoring small and diverse-owned
–aspire to have at least 30% ethnically diverse leaders in
businesses in our supply chain, we can help them identify
our roles at VP-and-above in the US by the end of
potential areas for growth. In 2023, we increased our spend
2025, and increase the percentage of Black or African
annually with US-based certified diverse-owned suppliers.
American, and Hispanic or Latinx VP-and-above
leaders year on year This year, we expanded our successful US supplier diversity
–aspire to have at least 18% ethnically diverse leaders in programme to the UK. Groups which benefit from this
our roles at VP-and-above in the UK by the end of programme include women, ethnic minorities, members
2025, and increase the percentage of Black VP-and- of the LGBTQ+ community, people with disabilities and
above leaders year on year military veterans, as well as small businesses in high-
unemployment, low income communities.
(1) Including a 20% reduction in routine hazardous and non-hazardous
waste
(2)Where regulatory obligations allow, and excluding plastics which are
critical to product discovery and development and health & safety
52Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Responsible business continued
Ensuring diversity in our workplaces In addition, within our 2023 UK ethnicity pay gap report we
We are fundamentally committed to equal employment are also sharing the pay gaps comparing the average pay
opportunity and non-discrimination for all employees and of our White employees with those in the ethnic groupings
we want all our leadership to reflect our GSK people and of Black, Mixed, Asian and Other. This is with reference to
our people to reflect the communities we work and hire in. the UK government’s recently published guidance to
provide a more granular view.
At the end of 2023, women held 45% of VP-and-above roles
globally, compared with 42% in 2022. Women made up This year, we added Disability Confidence training into our
48% of all employees in 2023, and 50% of all management First Line Leader training, aimed at all our people managers.
roles. In the UK at the end of 2023, we had 18.4% ethnically This training is designed to develop inclusive leaders that
diverse leaders at VP-and-above, compared with 14.3% in are able to promote disability confidence within their teams.
2022. We had 1.9% Black leaders at VP-and-above
We continue to work to make sure that our LGBTQ+
compared with 1.6% in 2022. In the US, at the end of 2023,
colleagues feel welcome, valued and included. We were
we had 35.7% ethnically diverse leaders at VP-and-above,
once more recognised as a Gold employer in Stonewall’s
compared with 31.3% in 2022. We had 8.1% Black or African
Top Global Employers Index.
American leaders at VP-and-above compared with 8.6% in
2022. We had 6.4% Hispanic or Latinx leaders at VP-and- We also relaunched our Mental Health Matters training.
above compared with 6.4% in 2022. Available globally, it is designed to help our people spot
the signs of poor mental health, know how to start a
We remain committed to the application of fair and
conversation with others, and signpost resources to support
equitable pay practices to ensure equal opportunities and
everyone’s wellbeing.
equal pay for equal work. Our 2023 gender pay gap for all
permanent UK-based GSK employees is -0.50% (mean), Supporting diverse innovators for the future
compared to the national average of 13.2%. We are also
In the UK, we launched a £6 million, ten-year STEM equity
publishing our second UK ethnicity pay gap comparing the
programme, targeting 11–25-year-old girls and young
average pay of our White and Ethnically Diverse employees.
women, black people and people from low socio-economic
Our 2023 UK ethnicity pay gap for all permanent UK-based
backgrounds. The programme includes nationwide STEM
GSK employees is -0.74% (mean), compared with 0.06% in
mentoring, delivered in partnership with established
2022.
mentoring organisations. In its first three years, we aim to
reach approximately 4,000 young people through this
programme.
+For full details of our progress in our six focus areas, please see our ESG
Performance Report
Ethical standards
Our culture guides our people to behave in an ethical way, Progress in 2023
to do the right thing and Speak Up about any concerns
Supporting GSK people to do the right thing
they have. We expect everyone who works for us to live
Our Code of Conduct (The Code) reflects our purpose
up to this, and we expect the same of our suppliers.
to unite science, technology and talent to get ahead of
Our commitment disease together. It sets out the commitments we make
as a company and to each other to deliver on our purpose
Promote ethical behaviour across our business by
and ambition.
supporting our employees to do the right thing and
working with suppliers that share our standards and The Code is supported by additional global policies
operate in a responsible way and standards. We also have an accompanying global
mandatory learning curriculum, Living our Code, which all
Our ESG Performance Rating metrics
our people are required to complete. In 2023, 100% of our
–100% of employees and complementary workers
employees and 99% of complementary workers completed
complete GSK’s 2023 mandatory training
this training where due by year-end.
–Percentage of employees who believe they ‘can and do
We also have anti-bribery and corruption (ABAC) training
Speak Up if things don’t feel right’ is above the general
industry benchmark1 for our people in certain high-risk roles or geographic
regions. This helps them identify and mitigate any potential
–80% of direct high-risk suppliers that achieve GSK’s ABAC risk – especially in third-party relationships – and to
minimum EcoVadis score or have an improvement recognise, report and manage conflicts of interest. In 2023,
plan in place
100% of employees and 99% of complementary workers
completed this training.
(1) The general industry benchmark is 66% according to 2023 research
by KornFerry
53Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Responsible business continued
Reporting and investigating concerns We visit sites, in person or virtually, to help suppliers better
In 2023, we saw an overall decrease in the number of understand and control their EHS risks. This year, we
employees who had concerns raised against them, conducted 73 physical visits across 63 priority suppliers.3
employees disciplined for policy violations and open cases We conducted 47 supplier audits following industry
at year end. This is reflective of several factors including standard Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative guidelines.
external geopolitical and economic issues affecting some We trained more than 1,000 supplier employees on EHS,
countries which changes the nature of concerns raised and, strengthened EHS contractual obligations and have worked
internally, our continued emphasis on appropriate with suppliers to help them improve their EcoVadis scores.
management and closure of cases.
Using data responsibly
Our commitment to human rights Data is an essential foundation to realising our ambitions
We are signatories to the UN Global Compact and our for patients. Advances in artificial intelligence (AI) and
Human Rights Position Statement lays out our commitment machine learning (ML) technologies present tremendous
to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. opportunities, but the technologies must be approached
We have a cross-business Human Rights Steering Group, correctly, responsibly and ethically. Increases in the volume
which reports to the GLT and Board’s Corporate of data processed through AI/ML use have resulted in a
Responsibility Committee, and drives progress on human greater focus on data governance and the ethical use of
rights impacts and risks across the business. personal information, over and above compliance with data
privacy laws. We take our responsibility for data privacy
In 2023, we carried out human rights training for priority
seriously and we exercise high standards of integrity in
suppliers, aimed at ensuring a good understanding of
dealing with personal information.
human rights and labour principles and aligned with
international standards. We also continued our human Our Digital and Privacy Governance Board oversees our
rights training for procurement and third-party engagement overall data ethics and privacy operating model, supported
leads, to better equip them to spot human rights issues by digital and privacy legal experts and compliance
when visiting suppliers. We conduct audits and site visits professionals. We monitor and mitigate new and emerging
covering Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) and labour cyber threats to protect ourselves from cyber security risks.
rights for our priority suppliers.1 Some of the top issues We have additional governance boards that oversee the
identified during supplier visits in 2023 related to policy, use of our data in the research, development, manufacture
wages and compliance. All observations have action plans and supply of our products to ensure we follow regulations
in place to drive improvement. and meet ethical obligations.
We are committed to fair and equitable pay, ensuring that In 2023, we created a cross-functional AI Governance
all employees globally receive pay that is competitive in Council to oversee our AI strategy and to ensure responsible
their local markets and sufficient to support a sustainable adoption of AI/ML. This is complemented by an internal
standard of living. In 2023, the Fair Wage Network certified policy to ensure AI/ML adoption is safe and aligned with
GSK as a Living Wage employer, after it reviewed the global GSK's culture by establishing AI Principles underpinned by
gap analysis we conducted in 2022. It confirmed that all the ethical standards set out in the GSK Code.
GSK workers are paid at or above the living wage in their
Political engagement
relevant markets. We have also developed a consistent
At GSK, we seek to contribute to public policy debate,
approach to how GSK will manage global fair wage analysis
especially in relation to life sciences and healthcare. We are
annually, as well as a methodology for the Fair Wage
committed to the highest ethical standards and legislative
Network to use to continue to assess us.
requirements in all of our political engagements. We do not
Working with third parties make corporate political contributions, nor do we sponsor
We expect our third parties to comply with applicable laws party political meetings anywhere around the world.
and regulations and to adopt, at minimum our ABAC and
+For full details of our progress in our six focus areas, please see our ESG
labour rights principles and, where relevant, to comply with Performance Report
our standards on quality, patient safety, health and safety,
and the environment. In 2023, we performed over 7,500
assessments of our high-risk third parties across 17 risk areas.
Across the organisation, we give additional support on EHS
risks to our largest suppliers, including those who supply
globally medically-critical products, as well as those who
are critical to our R&D, and those largest by spend.2
(1) Our largest suppliers, including those who supply globally medically
critical products, are critical to our R&D, and those largest by spend
(2)GSK maintains a list of globally medically critical products. These are
drug products approved to treat a life-threatening disease or medical
condition for which there is no other adequately available alternative
and of which GSK is the only provider
(3)Our EHS priority suppliers are API suppliers who are, or will be,
medically-, R&D-, or revenue-critical to GSK, or are high spend suppliers
54Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Responsible business continued
Product governance
Our commitment Inspections, recalls and audit
We commit to maintaining robust quality and safety In 2023, we had 114 regulatory inspections at our
processes, and using data and new technologies manufacturing sites and local operating companies,
responsibly. compared with 122 in 2022. We received zero warning
letters from the United States Food and Drugs
Our ESG Performance Rating metrics
Administration (FDA) or critical findings from the Medicines
–Average number of critical and major findings per Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) and
inspection by FDA/MHRA/EMA regulators1 European Medicines Agency (EMA) regulators in 2023.
We respond to and learn from all inspection findings,
–Percentage of inspections from all regulators with no
taking the necessary action to address them.
critical findings or official action indicated
–Number of FDA warning letters Throughout 2023, we had two Class I product recalls
and there were fewer Class II recalls compared with 2022.2
–Total number of Class I/II external product recalls across
If necessary to protect patients, we will not hesitate to
all markets
recall products voluntarily.
–Register and disclose all human subject research of GSK
Quality management along our supply chains
products. Specifically, register protocol summaries for
In 2023, we conducted 1,081 quality audits of contract
studies initiated in 2023; and disclose results summaries
manufacturers and suppliers to verify that they comply with
for studies with results due in 2023
GSK standards. We have a comprehensive quality oversight
Progress in 2023 model that is aligned to our Quality Management System. It
Maintaining quality across GSK uses a risk-based approach to assess, qualify, manage and
monitor our third-party suppliers on an ongoing basis,
We have a detailed and specific quality framework that
driving continuous performance.
describes how we comply with regulatory requirements and
other standards across our markets. This addresses global Pharmacovigilance at all times
and local regulations across manufacturing and distribution
We have a well-established and rigorous worldwide system
processes, and is based on principles defined by the
to monitor and review the safety of our products throughout
International Council for Harmonisation of Technical
clinical development and after regulatory approval. We
Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use.
expect our partners to meet the same high standards of
Our GSK quality function is responsible for managing quality safety and governance. We conduct reviews of third-party
and for ensuring a quality mindset is embedded throughout safety systems, monitoring of contractual obligations and
the organisation at all levels. It brings together an extensive fostering collaboration through the lifecycle of the
global network of quality and compliance professionals relationship.
within each of our business units, from site level to senior
Tackling counterfeit medicines and vaccines
management.
Falsified products put the health of patients at risk and
Our quality management depends upon comprehensive threaten our brand and reputation. We report all cases of
and ongoing patient safety and quality process training. confirmed counterfeit products to the WHO and to relevant
The Quality Management System details the training regulatory authorities. We actively participate in legal
required by GSK people, including induction, hygiene, safety proceedings against illegal actors, and support customs
and technical skills training, as well as good distribution and and local authorities with regular training. We also monitor
manufacturing practice training. Employees who carry out online marketplaces and social media to request takedowns
specific, quality-critical or sensitive activities are subject to of sites illicitly selling prescription-only medicines.
additional training as necessary.
Clinical data transparency
As part of our commitment to transparency, we have made
7,988 protocol summaries and 6,734 summaries of results
available since the GSK trial register was set up in 2004.
We have also listed 2,669 clinical trials for data sharing via
www.vivli.org.
+For full details of our progress against our six focus areas, please see our ESG
Performance Report
(1) We consider any observations from the US FDA as major
(2)Class I recalls are triggered by a reasonable probability that the use of
or exposure to a violative product will cause serious adverse health
consequences or death. Class II recalls address the use of or exposure
to a violative product which may cause temporary or medically
reversible adverse health consequences, or where the probability of
serious adverse health consequences is remote. Class III recalls relate
to the use of or exposure to a violative product which is not likely to
cause adverse health consequences
55GSK Annual Report 2023
Risk management
and disclosure
statements
In this section
Risk management 57
2023 principal risks summary 59
Climate-related financial disclosures 62
Nature-related financial disclosures 70
Non-financial and sustainability information statement 75
Employees by gender 75
Viability statement 76
56Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Risk management
We can only deliver our bold ambitions for patients if we maintain
a well-embedded risk management and internal control framework
overseen and evaluated by our Board.
Controls and guidance to manage risk effectively Considering the likelihood, impact
Our well-embedded risk management and internal control and timescale of risks
framework gives our Board the ability to evaluate and Our enterprise risk assessment methodology is the
oversee how the company manages principal and emerging mechanism by which we assess all risk, including our
risks in line with our strategy and long-term priorities. principal risks. Our enterprise risk assessment methodology
Our company-wide policy sets out the requirements, roles considers the likelihood and impact of risks, and the
and responsibilities for the management and governance timescale over which a risk could occur based on the most
of risks and controls, as well as supporting guidance on the probable scenario and considering our existing internal
essential elements of our internal control framework. We controls. Our impact assessments include considerations
routinely evaluate our risk management and internal control across patient safety, quality and supply; environment,
framework for improvements. health and safety; legal; people; regulatory; reputation;
strategic objectives; and finance, incorporating materiality
Board oversight setting the 'tone from the top'
thresholds. As well as considering current and evolving risks,
The Board oversees our system of risk management and we evaluate emerging risks that could affect our ability to
internal control and establishes our risk appetite, supported achieve our long-term priorities over the three-year horizon,
by the Audit & Risk Committee (ARC). The Corporate in line with our viability statement. We also define risks as
Responsibility Committee (CRC) and Science Committee ‘emerging’ if we need to know more about how likely they
further assess the effectiveness of risk management are to materialise, or what impact they would have if they
strategies that fall within their defined remits. Both the ARC did. We further evaluate emerging risks and their impact
and the Board oversee our cyber security risks. For more on the company to assess whether they should be elevated
details on the Board and its committees’ responsibilities and to a principal risk. Our risk management and compliance
remit, see page 116. Our Risk Oversight and Compliance boards at all levels identify emerging risks on an ongoing
Council (ROCC), co-chaired by our Group General Counsel basis, and ROCC discusses evolving and emerging risks at
and our Chief Compliance Officer, helps the ARC, CRC and each meeting. At the same time, we scan the risk horizon
Science Committee to oversee the risks, and the strategies throughout the year to identify external trends that may
used to address them. Also, risk management and be opportunities and/or emerging risks and monitor our
compliance boards (RMCBs) across the Group promote business activities and internal environment. ROCC
the ‘tone from the top’, establish our risk culture and oversee conducts an annual risk review to assess principal and
the effectiveness of risk management activities, while also emerging risks for the company. This review is supported
communicating information about internal controls. by extensive analysis of external trends and insights,
Management is held accountable for delivering on its senior-level interviews and recommendations from risk
objectives in line with the established risk appetite management and compliance boards and risk owners.
pertaining to principal risks. The Disclosure Committee has ROCC shares this annual review with the ARC and Board
the responsibility for considering the materiality of for assessment and agreement, forming the basis for the
information and determining the disclosure of this following year’s risk management focus.
information in a timely way. An enterprise risk owner is
responsible for each principal risk, overseen by a GLT Our business strategy, results of operations and financial
member. Risk owners report risk and mitigation to ROCC condition have not been materially affected by risks from
and the appropriate Board committee each quarter. cyber security threats, including as a result of previous cyber
Significant risks or issues can also be escalated to the GLT, security incidents, but we cannot provide assurance that
RMCB, or appropriate risk governance forum (e.g., Global they will not be materially affected in the future by such
Safety Board) throughout the year as needed. Legal & risks and any future material incidents.
Compliance support these efforts by advising on our
business strategies, activities, risks and controls. Audit &
Assurance provides assessments of the adequacy and
effectiveness of our framework.
57Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Risk management continued
Our risk management and internal control Reporting our current risks
framework The table starting on page 59 shows our current principal
Our risk management and internal control framework is risks and respective trends, assessments and mitigation
aligned to industry standards and legal and regulatory activities for the year. These are not in order of significance.
requirements. It defines the essential elements we expect For full risk definitions, potential impact, context and
and helps us to identify, assess, manage, report and oversee mitigating activities, see Principal risks and uncertainties on
risk relevant to our business activities. This framework helps page 284. Other risks, not at the level of our principal risks,
to ensure our risks are proportionately managed in line with related to ESG, including environmental sustainability and
our risk appetite throughout the year in a timely and climate change, are managed through our six focus areas,
transparent manner to support our strategic objectives. as described in our ESG Performance Report. Additional
information on climate-related risk management is in our
For our principal risks, which include information and cyber
climate-related financial disclosures, on page 62.
security, we define enterprise risk plans that include a
description of the risk, its context, our assessment, risk Changes to our risks for 2024
appetite, how we will treat the risk, and the actions In our December 2023 annual risk review, the ARC agreed
businesses will take in line with our internal control to ROCC’s recommendation of our principal risks for 2024,
framework to mitigate the risk. These plans enable our which remain largely unchanged. The emerging risk of data
Board committees to assess the effectiveness of our risk management will continue to be evaluated during the year.
management strategies. We report on our principal risks
and emerging risks to ROCC and the respective Board +Viability statement – see page 76
+ARC report – see page 133
committees every quarter, to drive more dynamic, data- +Internal control framework – see page 134
driven discussions, agile risk management strategies +Legal proceedings – see page 263
+Environment – see page 49
and oversight. We report on existing control measures,
+Climate-related financial disclosures – see page 62
implementation, emerging risks, external insights and key
risk indicators with risk reporting thresholds aligned to risk
appetite. We include risks and mitigations associated with
relevant events around us, such as geopolitical tensions.
Our Code sets out the overarching expectations for our
employees and complementary workers. We aim to do
the right thing with integrity and care as part of our culture.
Our risk management framework complements our culture
and Speak Up processes in making sure that we identify
and mitigate risks effectively. We monitor our most
important risks and take action to address issues. Our
annual confirmation exercise with General Managers, Site
Directors, senior leaders and GLT, checks that key risks are
well managed, and that actions are in place to address
gaps. Our principal risks include controls for responding
to problems within their risk plans. We also have business
continuity planning embedded in our framework and our
critical processes, so we can continue business operations
in the event of a crisis.
58Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
2023 principal risks summary
Trend versus
Risk prior year Assessment and mitigation activities
Patient → The external risk environment remains stable. Our pharmacovigilance function, like those across
safety the industry, contends with a challenging legal and regulatory environment. Even with an
External
optimised, state-of-the-art pharmacovigilance system we cannot predict all issues impacting
safety and efficacy that could potentially result in regulatory action and/or litigation. This is
particularly true of issues not based on robust scientific evidence of the ongoing benefit/risk
assessment for our products.
→ Our internal risk environment remains stable in 2023. We continue to focus on ensuring an
optimised benefit/risk profile for all vaccines and medicines through appropriate safety expertise
GSK
and oversight. We successfully completed a significant transition to a simplified third-party
support model for global pharmacovigilance operational activities.
Product → The external risk environment is stable, yet remains high. In May 2023, regulatory agencies ended
quality their emergency COVID-19 measures and resumed on-site inspections of our sites (both planned
External
and unannounced) to make sure they meet product quality expectations. Increased nationalism
following the pandemic has driven a broader spectrum of regulatory requirements. This continues
to rapidly evolve with new pharmaceutical, chemical and environmental expectations for our
products. The focus on data governance and data integrity remains. The application of AI/ML
to improve manufacturing and quality is in its infancy, with uncertainty about how this will be
regulated in the GxP arena. The US FDA is working with industry to understand its application
and develop guidance.
→ Our risk exposure remains stable. Our ongoing inspection readiness programme ensures
preparedness for regulatory authority inspections. We continue to invest in technology to
GSK
strengthen our data management controls and modernise our quality processes. We are
proactive in anticipating regulatory expectations and continue to work at an industry level to
refine quality standards and build new competencies to assure product quality.
Legal ↑ The external risk environment is increasing. The wide-ranging regulatory environment remains
matters challenging, due to uncertainty, volatility and sometimes conflicting requirements, influencing the
External ability to determine exact requirements in each market. Government agencies, and notably the
US, are increasingly looking to use competition law to tackle perceived issues with access to
medicine, pricing and acquisitions. Governments are continuing to enforce anti-corruption laws
and regulations, including a nationwide one-year campaign to fight corruption in healthcare in
China. Sanctions continue to be complex in the current geopolitical environment, particularly
those concerning Russia.
→ Our risk exposure is stable due to robust internal systems, processes and monitoring to ensure
proactive and timely response to changes by adapting our internal controls, which are designed
GSK to accommodate external regulatory fluctuations and changing risks.
Financial → The external risk environment remains challenging due to political uncertainty, proposed
controls increases in the obligations of directors and auditors, increasing threats of cyber attacks and
External
and reporting fraud, and increasing disclosure requirements including ESG and non-financial information.
→ Our risk exposure remains stable due to our ongoing focus on the resilience of personnel and
the testing of our internal control framework. We implement optimal risk mitigation through
GSK
transformational programmes, technology, centralised processes, and risk and control
assessments, and maintain effective tax and treasury strategies. We continually strengthen
our control frameworks and collaborate with external bodies on setting standards.
Commercial → The external risk environment is stable. Governments remain focused on initiatives to drive down
practices medicine and vaccine costs for consumers. The passing of the US Inflation Reduction Act (IRA)
External
of 2022 introduces new Medicare inflation-based drug rebates and a drug pricing negotiation
programme which could have an overall negative effect on us. Also, macroeconomic factors such
as inflationary pressure contribute to a challenging environment for all stakeholders. Competitive
pressure remains intense across therapy areas and market segments.
→ Our risk exposure remains stable. We have a mature and robust control environment that has
evolved to match the competitive enhancements to our commercial and digital practices,
GSK
including significantly higher volumes of engagement with healthcare professionals. This has been
supported by embedding an end-to-end speaker engagement system, eliminating zero-value
contracts, enhanced case study training on the medical commercial interface, implementing a
new tenders procedure, and implementing enhanced interactive digital media channel oversight.
59Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
2023 Principal risks summary continued
Trend versus
Risk prior year Assessment and mitigation activities
Scientific ↑ The external risk environment is changing. The diversity of engagement platforms continues
and patient to increase, while digital health technologies and generative AI advance rapidly. Also, the
External
engagement environment continues to be characterised by complex, dynamic disease areas and treatments
with increased volume of patient-centric activities during all phases of the product lifecycle.
→ Our risk exposure remains stable. We continue to build innovative digital capability and improve
our engagement practices and internal controls to mitigate risk in the rapidly evolving
GSK
environment. We use data and systems to monitor for emerging risks associated with scientific
and patient engagement activities.
Data ethics ↑ The external risk environment continues to increase as the global landscape of data protection,
and privacy privacy and cyber laws develops. Given that the current pace of technology-focused innovation
External
is expected to continue, companies need to be mindful of relevant potential legislation and
regulations. The increasing trend for data sovereignty could affect healthcare companies in their
ability to drive medical innovation and operate internationally. Global regulators (such as the EU,
UK, US and China) are also introducing legislation around the use of AI and ML which is closely
aligned with privacy regulations. These regulations will play a key role in safeguarding privacy by
ensuring responsible data usage, transparency and ethical use of data, while preventing biases
and managing international data flows.
↑ Our internal risk exposure is increasing given our focus on data in an uncertain external
environment. Our data ethics and privacy operating model has been transformed to make sure
GSK
it is flexible enough to adapt to emerging privacy laws in the US, EU, UK, China and India,
including addressing restrictions imposed by regulators in relation to international data transfer
mechanisms. We have focused on simplifying of principles and processes, while allowing flexibility
around the deployment of our model in different territories and business functions.
Research ↑ The external risk environment is increasing as technology-focused innovation accelerates the
practices discovery and development of medicines and vaccines. Advances in technology, expanded use
External
of data and digital footprints, more sophisticated cyber security threats, the rising trend for data
sovereignty and developing global landscape of quality standards, data protection, privacy and
cyber laws, and new entrants to the sector continue to influence the environment. Companies
should consider the relevant emerging legislation and regulations and impact on their ability to
drive innovation and operate internationally.
↑ Our risk exposure is increasing as we adopt new technologies and scale our adoption of AI in
the discovery and development of medicines and vaccines. We continue to adapt our internal
GSK
business processes to enable innovation and to meet ethical, societal and regulatory expectations.
Environment, → The external risk environment remains stable. There are currently no external EHS risk factors that
health and reduce our ability to discover and manufacture our vaccines and medicines safely.
External
safety (EHS)
→ Our risk exposure remains stable. We've continued safety leadership training, embedding our
Life Saving Rules, and adhering to our EHS standards. We have initiated a Contractor Safety
GSK
programme that will deliver improvements to reduce the risk profile associated with using
contractors across all business units and are strengthening our driver safety programmes.
Information ↑ External risk continues to rise as digital footprints increase and threats from cyber security
and cyber become more sophisticated, including threat actors having access to more sophisticated AI
External
security capabilities. Continued geopolitical conflicts have also increased cyber security risk to large
corporations.
↑ Our risk exposure continues to increase as we adopt new technologies and scale our adoption of
AI across GSK. We remain on track to deliver our multi-year Cyber Maturity Programme (CMP)
GSK
and other risk mitigation programmes including China, High Risk Jurisdiction, and processes and
accountabilities for data management, to improve our controls and governance to identify,
protect, detect, respond to, and recover from cyber security incidents.
60Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
2023 Principal risks summary continued
Supply → The external risk environment remains stable. In 2023, there have been cyber attacks on two
continuity of our third-party logistics providers, which has tested our business continuity planning. The
External
constraints seen on sourcing bioscience materials in 2022 has abated, however a new constraint
is emerging on third-party sterile manufacturing capacity, which increases competition for
contract manufacturing operations. Extreme weather events continue to present challenges
across the industry for facilities worldwide.
→ Our risk exposure remains stable, maintained through a combination of well-defined supply
chain management processes, clear escalation pathways to ensure supply continuity and clear
GSK
succession plans in place for critical supply chain roles. Our Supply Chain 2030 initiative and the
integration of the Medicines and Vaccines supply chains into one organisation demonstrate our
commitment to evolving our technology platforms and product portfolio without affecting supply
continuity, which remains consistently high.
61Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Climate-related financial disclosures
Our climate-related financial disclosures are consistent with Management’s role in assessing and managing climate-
the recommendations and recommended disclosures of the related risks and opportunities
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
GSK Leadership Team (GLT)
including the TCFD all-sector guidance, and in compliance
The GLT meets regularly, giving members an opportunity to
with the requirements of LR 9.8.6R.(8) (UK Listing Rules).
discuss strategic, financial and reputational matters.
The disclosures are in compliance with the Companies
(Strategic Report) (Climate-related Financial Disclosure) The President, Global Supply Chain, a GLT member, has
Regulations 2022 of the Company Act 2006. In 2023 we management responsibility for environmental sustainability,
have updated our risk assessments to reflect changes in which includes climate change. He is responsible for
the supply chain and the progression of our sustainability governance and oversight of risks and opportunities and
transformation programme. makes sure there is an effective framework to manage the
risks and opportunities across each of our business units,
Governance
along with delivering on our commitments to a net zero,
The board’s oversight of climate-related risks
nature positive, healthier planet, with ambitious goals set
and opportunities
for 2030 and 2045 across our entire value chain.
Board
In 2023 GLT reviewed and discussed the mid-year
The Board considers climate-related matters throughout the performance for key environmental metrics, including
year. This includes assessing risk management processes, climate-related ones (see page 49) as part of reviewing
challenging and endorsing the business plan and budgets, GSK’s ESG Performance Rating.
including overseeing major capital expenditures,
GSK Sustainability Council
acquisitions and divestments. In 2023, the Board approved
progression to the next phase of development of the low The Sustainability Council, held quarterly, is attended by
carbon Ventolin programme. senior leaders from across the business. Members include
leaders from procurement, finance, HR, compliance, R&D,
The Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC) exercises
manufacturing and corporate affairs. The Council is co-
oversight, provides guidance and reviews our ESG
chaired by the President Global Supply Chain and the VP
performance, including climate-related risks and
Sustainability and supported by the global Sustainability
opportunities, and environmental performance against
team and external third parties, who provide specialist
targets.
expertise and advice to the business.
The CRC receives quarterly updates on environmental
In 2023 the Council:
sustainability, including climate. Regular attendees
include the CEO, and the President Global Supply Chain. –approved the annual targets for the climate Key
See page 116 for further details of the Board architecture. Performance Indicators (KPI) of the sustainability
programme
In 2020 the CRC reviewed and approved GSK’s twin goals
–reviewed monthly performance and escalations of any
on climate and nature. Following the demerger of the
potential concerns or issues
consumer healthcare business in July 2022, the CRC
approved that GSK would submit updated refreshed –approved the annual climate risk review and approach
targets to the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) that for risk disclosure
are aligned to a 1.5°C pathway, and to align to the SBTi Net
–agreed that the newly formed ESG Reporting Hub
Zero Standard, to reduce carbon emissions by 80% by 2030
would be accountable for assurance of environmental
and 90% by 2045.
data in 2023
In 2023 the CRC met five times and discussed climate-
–reviewed progress of the core programmes to improve
related issues on three separate occasions with
the sustainability of our supply chain
management.
It focused on: –reviewed progress towards securing a portfolio of carbon
credits in support of our 2030 commitment
–progress in delivering against our climate ambitions
including low carbon Ventolin and Nature Plan updates
–implications of the geopolitical landscape
–key milestones and decisions required to achieve net zero
targets
–mid-year performance for key environmental metrics,
including climate-related metrics, as part of reviewing the
interim ESG Performance Rating for 2023
–approved our climate disclosure statement and final ESG
Performance Rating for 2022 and other public
environmental reporting and disclosures
62Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Climate-related financial disclosures continued
Other business support 3.long term (more than ten years) to enable us to explore
The Sustainability Council is supported in assessing and the uncertainties in changes to weather, disease patterns
managing climate-related risks and opportunities by: and societal responses to climate change across the
globe
–the sustainability programme steering team, which is
chaired by the VP Sustainability that meets monthly We have identified and prioritised these climate-related
and co-ordinates the sustainability programme and risks and opportunities:
associated workstreams. This team monitors programme
Risks:
performance and the progress of the enablers required
to deliver the sustainability programme –changes to regulations governing the supply of high
global warming potential (GWP) substances by the EU,
–sustainability councils within each business, which meet
UK and US governments could restrict our ability to
quarterly to review their business unit performance and
manufacture metered dose inhalers
delivery against the company sustainability ambition.
These are chaired by senior leaders within the business –future regulatory policy responses to address climate
who also attend the GSK sustainability council change could lead to the imposition of carbon taxes by
countries where we manufacture and source goods from
–the Metered Dose Inhaler steering team, which is
third parties
attended by senior leaders from across the commercial,
supply chain, regulatory and R&D businesses aligned to –increasing levels of water stress could lead to interruptions
our respiratory business. This team is chaired by the to supply of water to our and third-party supply sites
President Global Supply Chain, who also chairs the
–increasing frequency and impact of extreme weather
Sustainability Council and is the decision-making body for
events that could disrupt to GSK and third-party
the programme to reduce the climate impact of metered
supplier sites
dose inhalers which contribute to approximately 50% of
GSK’s total GHG emissions –nature-based projects might not deliver sufficient
volumes of carbon credits to offset 2 million tonnes COe
–the Capital Allocations Board (CAB), which is chaired 2
per year from 2030, requiring us to buy additional credits
by the CFO and includes the Group Financial Controller,
at higher cost
reviews climate-related capital expenditure as part of its
annual planning and capital allocation process Opportunities:
–the ESG Reporting Hub, which was established in 2023, –At COP28 in 2023, more than 70 countries committed to
provides oversight and assurance of ESG performance provide low-carbon healthcare systems. This could lead to
data, including carbon emissions data increasing demand for low-carbon medicines and
–The carbon offset programme steering committee, which vaccines
includes the Group Financial Controller and the VP –Several reports exploring the impact of climate change
Sustainability, who also attends Sustainability Council, and health have shown that climate change affects
reviews the due diligence outcomes of potential carbon water- and vector-borne diseases. This could lead to
offset projects, the performance of established increasing demand for new medicines and vaccines
investments and makes new investment decisions
The processes for identifying and assessing climate-related
–A cross-functional team from the Sustainability, Finance,
risks and opportunities are set out in the Risk Management
Supply Chain and Procurement functions performs an
section. We will continue to monitor for emerging risks and
annual review of climate risks to monitor previously
new data to include in future assessments.
identified climate risk and escalate new or emerging
climate risks to the Sustainability Council The impact of climate-related risks and opportunities
on our business, strategy and financial planning
–Results of climate scenario modelling are shared with
business unit Risk Management Control Boards (RMCB) Our commitment to work towards a net zero, nature positive,
healthier planet with ambitious goals set for 2030 and 2045
Strategy
is embedded in our strategic long-term priorities, always
The climate-related risks and opportunities we have considering the social, environmental and governance
identified over the short, medium, and long term impacts of everything we do from laboratory to patient.
Climate-related risks and opportunities are considered Our near-term carbon reduction target is an 80% reduction
in three different time horizons: in Scope 1 & 2 and Scope 3 carbon emissions by 2030.
Our long-term carbon reduction target is a 90% reduction
1. short term (less than three years) aligning with financial
in Scope 1 & 2 and Scope 3 carbon emissions by 2045.
planning timeframes
Both targets are measured against a 2020 baseline.
2.medium term (three to ten years) aligning with long-term
These targets are aligned to the 1.5°C pathway and
business forecasting timeframes
were approved by the Science Based Targets initiative
(SBTi) during 2023.
63Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Climate-related financial disclosures continued
Transition plan –the Energize programme to encourage the use of
We are taking action to reduce emissions across our full renewable energy throughout the pharmaceutical sector’s
supply chain
value chain, prioritising the highest-impact areas. We will
invest around £1 billion from 2020-30 to deliver emissions –the Manufacture 2030 initiative to encourage suppliers
reductions and removals to achieve our targets though the to measure, manage and reduce their emissions
activities outlined below.
–the Pharma LCA consortium is a group of eight global
Beyond 2030 we expect we will be left with the harder- pharmaceutical that have come together via the
to-tackle emissions from across our supply chain, our Pharmaceutical Environment Group with support from
own operations, logistics, and disposal. In many cases, the Sustainable Markets Initiative to co-develop a shared
addressing these residual emissions is likely to depend way of measuring and reporting environmental
on technologies, infrastructure and regulatory frameworks product footprints
that require broad public/private collaboration. So our
Risks and uncertainties
decarbonisation plan is interdependent with the broader
economic transition and follows a similar timeframe. Pharmaceutical manufacturing processes are highly
regulated by different agencies across the world which may
Our progress in reducing carbon emissions can be found
slow down the implementation of some decarbonisation
on page 50.
initiatives.
Direct operations
Our supply chains are complex and can involve several
In order to continue reducing Scope 1 & 2 emissions across intermediate stages of production that are highly product-
our operations by 2030, we are focusing on: specific. Our volume demand on specific materials is quite
low which can reduce our ability to influence where we only
–maximising energy efficiency in our sites through our
purchase a small share of a supplier's production.
long-standing energy efficiency programme
–transitioning to 100% imported renewable electricity Many suppliers are based in regions where renewable
by 2025 by investing in power purchase agreements, electricity and heat is less available than elsewhere.
supplemented by the purchase of energy attribute
Measuring Scope 3 emissions is complex and challenging
certificates
and there is a lack of primary data from suppliers.
–increasing the use of electric vehicles by our sales fleet Methodologies involve using spend-based estimates mixed
in with activity-based data, industry average data and
Risks and uncertainties
extrapolations based on subjective choices and judgments.
In some markets where we operate, such as Singapore, As data systems, processes and controls mature and more
accessing renewable electricity will be challenging because primary data becomes available, there may be the need to
of the limited generation capacity and the market boundary restate reported emissions data in the future.
rules governing imported electricity.
Product impact
There are uncertainties in the transition to renewable heat. The use of our products makes up 57% of our carbon
High-temperature heat produced by electricity is not footprint. Patient use of GSK’s rescue metered dose inhaler
generally commercially available today. Biogas can replace (MDI) medication, Ventolin (salbutamol), accounts for just
natural gas without introducing major changes to facilities under half (48%) of our carbon footprint. We are investing
but is not widely available in the locations where we in an R&D programme and a large factory upgrade project
operate. The use of biomass as fuel could introduce issues to redevelop this inhaler by transitioning to a lower-carbon
of land use change and impacts on local air quality. propellant. Recent data from early clinical trials has
supported the decision to progress to phase III and dosing
The transition to 100% electric vehicles by 2030 could be
of first patients is planned in the first half of 2024. If
restricted by vehicle availability, lack of charging
successful, regulatory submissions will begin in 2025.
infrastructure and sourcing of key materials for battery
production. Risks and uncertainties
Supply chain Metered dose inhalers are complex devices, and any new
Our Sustainable Procurement Programme requires our medical propellant must meet a specific range of technical
suppliers to disclose emissions and set carbon reduction performance characteristics to be safe and efficacious for
targets aligned with a 1.5°C reduction pathway. We also patients.
work with suppliers, particularly those with the largest
We are engaging with medical regulators such as the US
footprint, to encourage them to adopt new sustainability
Food and Drug Administration (FDA), European Medicines
measures.
Agency (EMA) and the UK Medicines and Healthcare
Supply chain emissions are a shared challenge across our Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) on how advances
sector, and we are working with our peers on collaborative in pharmaceutical product design can reduce the
initiatives such as: environmental impact of medicines.
–the Activate programme to help Active Pharmaceutical
Ingredients (API) suppliers accelerate decarbonisation
initiatives
64Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Climate-related financial disclosures continued
Carbon credits Net zero scenario (SSP 1 – RCP 1.9)
While we are focused on emissions reductions to meet our This scenario sets out a narrow but achievable pathway for
carbon targets, we are also investing in high quality nature the global energy sector to achieve net zero CO emissions
2
protection and restoration projects that support our net- by 20501. It does not rely on emissions reduction from
zero and nature positive goals and deliver co-benefits to outside the energy sector to achieve its goal. The scenario is
human health to generate carbon credits to offset annually consistent with limiting the global temperature rise to 1.5°C
the 20% of our baseline value chain carbon footprint from without a temperature overshoot. Net zero means huge
2030. The volume of credits required will taper down to 10% declines in the use of coal, oil and gas and a shift to
as we continue to reduce our emissions, aiming to achieve renewable energy sources.
net zero emissions across our full value chain by 2045.
Low-carbon scenario (SSP 1 – RCP 2.6)
Our criteria for high quality projects include avoidance of
In this scenario, all current net zero pledges are achieved in
harm, transparency, additionality, permanence, mitigation
full and there are extensive efforts to realise near-term
of leakage, project monitoring, reporting and verification
emissions reductions; advanced economies reach net zero
of claims and avoidance of double counting.
emissions by 2050, China around 2060, and all other
For our 2030 target we are prioritising carbon removal countries by 2070 at the latest2. The scenario is consistent
credits, but we will also secure a proportion of carbon with limiting the global temperature rise to below 2°C. With
avoidance and reductions credits in recognition of their some level of net negative emissions after 2070, the
critical role in conserving existing carbon stocks and temperature rise could be reduced to 1.5°C in 2100.
protecting nature. For our 2045 Net Zero target, we will
Current trajectory scenario (SSP2 – RCP4.5)
aim to secure only carbon removal credits.
This scenario sets out to show to what extent announced
Risks and uncertainties
ambitions and targets are on the path to deliver the
We recognise that this is a fast-moving field, and that emissions reductions required to achieve net zero emissions
methodologies and guidelines will likely evolve as we by 20503. The temperature rise will exceed 2°C by 2100,
implement our plans. We commit to remaining flexible with a more noticeable shift to happen in the latter half of
and transparent about our progress and learning. the century. A net zero pledge for emissions within the
scenario does not necessarily mean that CO emissions from
There is a risk that the nature-based projects do not deliver 2
the energy sector need to reach net zero, but there is an
sufficient volumes of carbon credits to meet our needs in a
allocation for carbon offsetting within the pledges.
given year and that we may need to purchase of more
credits at higher cost. Breach of planetary boundaries scenarios (SSP 5 – RCP 8.5)
This scenario is not aligned to any of the pledges laid out in
Climate scenarios
the Paris Agreement and is one where countries are unable
We use climate scenarios to inform management about
to meet the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
climate risks, reporting the results to Risk Management
This scenario will have the most severe physical
Control Boards (RMCB) in the business as well as to the
consequences for the planet. The temperature rise will
Sustainability Council.
exceed 4°C by 2100, leading to high loss of biodiversity and
We have developed modelling tools with the support of species extinction.
third parties that enable us to model the impacts of physical
Risk management
and transition risks where our sites and supply chains are
located. For example we have modelled the probability of Our processes for identifying and assessing climate-related
an interruption from an extreme weather event at our key risks
sites and supplier sites and the subsequent financial impact
The nature of the risks and opportunities from climate
of that interruption assuming the inventory levels carried
change depends not only on the physical aspects of climate
under existing business continuity plans. We have modelled
change, but also regulatory and commercial changes in the
the impact of future carbon taxes, such as direct taxes on
markets in which we operate, including pressures to reduce
energy-related emissions, emissions trading schemes
the climate impact of our metered dose inhaler medicines.
and taxes from carbon border adjustment mechanisms
assuming we deliver our carbon reduction glidepath to Our risk management policies are designed to address all
2030 and beyond. types of risks, including the Group principal risks and
uncertainties. Climate risk management follows the same
In 2022, we reviewed and updated our climate scenarios
policy and framework. Risks from climate change at Group
first developed in 2019. We intend to review the scenarios
level fall under the governance of the CRC with the support
again in 2025 to make sure they'll remain up to date..
of the Sustainability Council. Individual risks from climate
change are raised with appropriate business unit or
(1) IEA Net Zero emissions scenario, https://www.iea.org/reports/global- functional Risk Management Control Boards to make sure
energy-and-climate-model/net-zero-emissions-by-2050-scenario-nze we integrate these risks into business risk management
last accessed 17 November 2022 processes.
(2)IEA World Energy Outlook 2021, Chapter 2, p94, download report from
https://www.iea.org/reports/world-energy-outlook-2021/overview, last
accessed 17 November 2022
(3)IEA Announced Pledges, https://www.iea.org/reports/global-energy-
and-climate-model/announced-pledges-scenario-aps last accessed
17 November 2022
65Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Climate-related financial disclosures continued
A specific and dedicated environmental sustainability risk Our Communications and Government Affairs team
management plan was put in place in 2020. The risk manages corporate reputation by identifying and
management plan covers expectations that we are monitoring of climate-related issues and undertaking
addressing our impact on the environment, and that the both proactive and reactive engagement with relevant
environment has increasing impacts on operational stakeholder groups to communicate our position.
resilience, such as access to energy, water and the natural
Details of how we manage our prioritised risks are in
resources used in products, along with any anticipated cost
the Risk Table.
increases from regulatory changes or environmental taxes.
We review developments in policy and regulations at global How our processes for identifying, assessing and managing
and national level, receiving quarterly monitoring reports. climate related risks are integrated into overall risk
management
We have procedures to identify risks from climate change
when factors evolve, for example to assess the climate On an annual basis, a cross-functional team from
impact of merger and acquisition activity, or the Sustainability, Finance, Supply Chain and Procurement
construction of new buildings. We use a shadow carbon functions reviews climate risks. Climate-related risks are
price of $100 per tonne COe to inform decision-making on considered from a strategic and operational perspective
2
investments in major capital expenditure to understand the to make sure we maintain a comprehensive view of the
implications on potential carbon offset costs for the carbon different types of climate risks we face and the different
emissions from our value chain in 2030. This value is based time horizons in which they may affect us. The team review
on the recommendation by the Carbon Pricing Leadership previously identified climate risks, plus new or emerging risks
Coalition that concluded in 2017 that the explicit carbon and opportunities, and make recommendations in a paper
price level required to drive change to restrict temperature to the Sustainability Council. Risk assessment papers are
increases to below 1.5°C is at least US$50–100/tCO by prepared for the prioritised risks, considering the likelihood
2
20301. We monitor the value used for internal carbon pricing and financial impact on us of each risk under different
against estimates for the future costs of carbon credits. climate scenarios.
Our processes for managing climate-related risk Each risk and opportunity is analysed to understand how
we are managing them, the metrics and targets being used
For the purposes of this disclosure, we differentiate between
and the potential impact on our total profit using a low
'physical' and 'transition' climate-related risks.
(<£100 million), medium (£100 million – £250 million) or high
Physical risks are typically identified at the asset or project (£250 million) threshold.
level and are managed depending on the level of risk
The impact assessments are approved by the VP
assessed. We use climate scenario analysis to model the
Sustainability and a Finance VP from our Global Supply
potential impacts of our prioritised physical risks which helps
Chain business unit. The results are shared with Business
us understand the resilience of our supply chains against
Unit Risk Management and Compliance Boards (RMCB)
climate change.
and the Finance RMCB to make sure risks are both
Transition risks are typically risks associated with changes to contextualised with other business risks and managed
regulations or societal expectations during the transition to appropriately. This allows management to take a holistic
a lower-carbon economy. They are identified at enterprise view and optimise risk mitigation responses, to ensure that
level and at market level. We manage transition risks responses to climate-related risks are properly integrated
through our investment decisions, our sustainability into the relevant business unit and function activities.
transformation programme and our procedures. For
The resilience of our strategy, considering different climate-
example, we manage risks which may arise from product
related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario
claims based on environmental performance by using
external accreditation processes and organisations to We used the climate scenarios described above to stress
review the evidence used to support these claims. test the resilience of the organisation by considering the
impacts of potential physical and transition risks and
opportunities on the locations where we operate as
described in the table below. The modelling did not identify
any material impact to our business resilience.
(1) Report of the High-Level Commission on Carbon Prices, Carbon Pricing
Leadership Coalition, 2017, p10, https://
www.carbonpricingleadership.org/report-of-the-highlevel-commission-
on-carbon-prices/
66Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Climate-related financial disclosures continued
Potential
Physical risk/ financial impact/
description GSK response Scenario timeframe Metrics Targets
The risk from We have identified three water basins in water- Current Medium Sites that have Achieve
increasing levels of stressed areas in Algeria, India and Pakistan trajectory (£100M- achieved good water
water stress leading to where we have manufacturing sites, and where £250M)/ water stewardship
interruptions to supply we aim to be water neutral. long term stewardship at 100% of
of water to our sites At our manufacturing facility in Nashik, India (> 10 years) Total supplied our sites by
and third-party supply we have built plants for rainwater harvesting. water 2025
sites. The climate scenario analysis has identified Reduce
We and our third-party a number of sites and supplier sites located in overall water
suppliers use water basins that could become water stressed use in our
freshwater as the main by 2050, which have been added to a watch Breach of Medium operations by
source of water to list. We will monitor changes to the risk levels planetary (£100M- 20% by 2030
manufacture medicines and update our site water risk assessments boundaries £250M)/ Be water
and vaccines. If water appropriately. long term neutral in our
availability was The financial impact assumes we manage (> 10 years) own
restricted at a factory, inventory in our supply chain to the same levels operations
operations would be as in 2023, and water stress could lead to a and at key
interrupted. three-month supply interruption as a worst suppliers in
water-
case.
stressed
regions by
2030
Increasing frequency The climate scenario modelling indicated that, Current Medium Business Where
of extreme weather of the seven physical perils, flood from rainfall trajectory (£100M- continuity climate-
events causing presents the highest likelihood of an acute scenario £250M)/ plans are related risks
disruption to our and interruption. However, the risk of flooding from long term reviewed to business
third-party supplier rainfall and from the other extreme weather (> 10 years) annually continuity are
sites. events is expected to remain very low. identified, we
Extreme weather We have performed risk assessments for our have taken
events from any one of manufacturing and other operations and have action to
precipitation (rainfall), business continuity plans which we review mitigate the
flood from annually to respond to the impacts of extreme risk
precipitation, riverine weather events, including adopting
flood, extreme wind, appropriate mitigation plans. Breach of Medium
wildfire, and extreme We have a well-established loss prevention planetary (£100M-
heat can result in short- and risk engineering programme to identify a boundaries £250M)/
term interruptions to range of risks that could impact our sites and, scenario long term
manufacturing at where flood risks exist, we have taken action (> 10 years)
our or supplier sites. to mitigate them.
The financial impact assumes we manage
inventory in our supply chain to the same levels
as in 2023, and an extreme weather event
could lead to a three-month supply interruption
as a worst case.
Potential
Transitional risk/ financial impact/
description GSK response Scenario timeframe Metrics Targets
Regulations governing We are investing in a R&D programme and a Current High On/off track 80%
the use of high GWP large manufacturing site upgrade project to trajectory (> £250M)/ against and 90%
substances are being redevelop our Ventolin (salbutamol) inhaler by scenario medium term delivery of key absolute
updated in the EU and transitioning to a lower-carbon propellant that (3-10 years) milestones on reduction
UK and were updated could potentially reduce its carbon emissions the R&D in
recently in the US. by up to 90%, if the clinical trials are programme greenhouse
This could lead to successful. plan gas emissions
increasing costs and from a 2020
restrict the ability to We already have a portfolio of Dry Powder baseline
manufacture our Inhaler products that do not use propellants across all
metered dose inhaler that are not affected by this risk. scopes by
(MDI) products that The financial impact assumes the 2030
use a high GWP and 2045,
reformulated product is approved by
propellant (HFA134a). respectively
regulators and launched according to plan.
67Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Climate-related financial disclosures continued
Potential
Transitional risk/ Selected financial impact/
description GSK response Scenario timeframe Metrics Targets
Future regulatory We are managing this risk by reducing our value Net zero Medium Scope 1 & 2 80%
policy responses to chain carbon emissions in line with our transition (£100M-£250M) carbon and 90%
address climate plan described above. /medium (3-10 emissions absolute
change could lead to The financial impact assumes we deliver an years) and long Scope 3 reduction
the imposition of 80% reduction in carbon emissions by 2030 term (> 10 years) carbon in
carbon taxes by and assumes carbon tax values are as per IEA emissions greenhouse
countries where we scenarios, supplemented by data from policy gas
manufacture and pledges for a small number of countries. Low-carbon Medium emissions
source goods from (£100M-£250M) from a
third parties. /medium term 2020
(3-10 year) baseline
falling to low (< across all
£100M)/long scopes by
term (> 10 2030
years) and 2045,
respectively
Current Low (< £100M)/
trajectory in the medium
term (3-10
years) and long
term (> 10 years)
Nature-based projects We established a governance framework to Lower-than- Low (<£100M) / In 80%
fail to deliver the manage each project with our external partners. anticipated medium term development and 90%
anticipated volumes Any issues are escalated to the carbon offset growth (3-10 years) absolute
of carbon credits from programme steering committee. scenario reduction
lower-than-expected in
growth or the result of We assume a future cost of £70 per tonne CO 2e Natural Medium (£100M greenhouse
a natural catastrophe. by 2030. catastrophe -£250M)/ gas
This could lead to For the lower-than-anticipated growth scenario scenario medium term emissions
buying more carbon we assume a 25% under-delivery in a single year (3-10 years) from a 2020
credits at higher cost as the issues will have been identified early baseline
to make up the enough to take other preventative actions. across all
shortfall. For a natural catastrophe scenario, we assume scopes by
25% of the projects will be affected and the 2030
impact will last five years. and 2045,
respectively
Potential
profit impact/
Opportunities GSK response Scenario timeframe Metrics Targets
At COP28 in November We are reducing our own Scope 1 & 2 carbon Net zero Scope 1 & 2 80%
2023, more than 70 emissions, which in turn reduces the Scope 3 and 3 and 90%
countries committed to footprint of our customers and suppliers. carbon absolute
provide low-carbon We have an Eco-design programme to reduce emissions reduction
healthcare systems. the impacts of all our products and packaging. Total waste in
This could lead to We are investing in an R&D programme to reduce and greenhouse
increasing demand for greenhouse gas emissions from metered dose Low (< £100M)/ materials gas
l ao nw d- c va ar cb co inn e m s.edicines i hn ah va ele mrs a u ds ee d g oto o dtr e pa rot ga rs et sh sm toa w a an rd d sC rO efP oD rm a un ld a ting Low carbon L yeo an rg s )term (> 10 fe rm omiss aio ns
2020
an alternative gas that could potentially reduce
baseline
the climate impact by up to 90% if the clinical
across all
trials are successful.
scopes by
We have a portfolio of dry powder inhaler 2030
products that have low carbon footprints. and 2045,
We are part of a consortium of eight global respectively.
pharmaceutical companies to co-develop a Current Zero
shared way of measuring and reporting trajectory operational
environmental product footprints. waste
Financial impact is based on research performed
for us in 2022 on the details of published
commitments to transition to low-carbon
healthcare in major markets.
68Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Climate-related financial disclosures continued
Metrics and targets
The metrics we use to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with our strategy and risk management process.
a. Disclose the We have considered the key metrics following the TCFD guidance of Tables A1.1 and A1.2 as well as the metrics
metrics used by consistent with cross-industry, climate-related metrics. Based on that, our strategic metrics are:
the organisation to – Scope 1 & 2 emissions (market-based and location-based approach), described in the table below
assess climate risks
– Scope 3 emissions, described in the table below
and opportunities
in line with its strategy – % renewably sourced electricity, described in the table below
and risk management – Total supplied water, described in the table below
process
– Total waste and materials, described in the table below
– ESG composite metric, as part of our senior leaders‘ remuneration policy – see page 149
– Sites that have achieved water stewardship, described in the table below
Our ESG Performance Report includes more metrics used to support the strategic metrics listed above.
b. Disclose Scope 1, 2 In energy and carbon emissions, see table below:
and if applicable Scope 3 – Scope 1 emissions from energy
GHG emissions and
– Scope 1 emissions from other sources
related risks
– Scope 2 emissions (market-based)
– Scope 2 emissions (location-based)
– Scope 3 emissions metrics
– Scope 1 & 2 emissions intensity metrics
Prioritised physical and transition risks are included in the Risk Table above.
c. Describe the targets Our targets (measured against a 2020 baseline where applicable) are:
used by the organisation
– 80% absolute reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from a 2020 baseline, across all scopes, and
to manage climate-
investment in nature-based solutions for the remaining 20% of our footprint by 2030
related risks and
– Net zero greenhouse gas emissions across our full value chain by 2045: 90% absolute reduction in emissions
opportunities and
from a 2020 baseline, across all scopes, and all residual emissions neutralised
performance against
targets – 100% renewable electricity by 2025 (Scope 2)
– Achieve good water stewardship at 100% of our sites by 2025
– Reduce overall water use in our operations by 20% in 2030
–Zero operational waste1, including eliminating single use plastics2 by 2030
– Be water neutral in our own operations and at key suppliers in water-stressed regions by 2030
The performance against our targets is on page 50.3
(1) Including a 20% reduction in routine hazardous and non-hazardous waste
(2)Where regulatory obligations allow, and excluding plastics which are critical to product discovery and development and health & safety
(3)See Basis of Reporting 2023 in the ESG resources section of GSK.com (https://www.gsk.com/en-gb/responsibility/esg-resources/) for detailed
methodologies for measuring and reporting all GSK environmental KPIs
We commit to a net zero, nature positive, healthier planet, with ambitious goals set for 2030 and 2045 across our entire
value chain. We report progress in reducing Scope 1 & 2 carbon emissions, Scope 3 carbon emissions, energy use, water,
waste annually towards these targets on page 50, in our ESG Performance Report and in our public responses to the CDP
Climate, Water and Forest questionnaires.
69Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Climate-related financial disclosures continued
Metrics data
Carbon emissions1,2
Carbon emissions ‘000 tonnes CO2e 2023 2022 2021
Scope 1 emissions (from energy) 301 320 333
Scope 1 emissions (other3) 279 306 300
Scope 2 emissions (market-based) 64 88 131
Scope 2 emissions (location-based) 240 265 285
Scope 3 emissions4 – 8,995 8,624
UK Scope 1 & 2 emissions 102 111 126
Other metrics 2023 2022 2021
Scope 1 and 2 emissions from energy/sales revenue (tonnes COe/£m) 12.0 13.9 18.8
2
Scope 1 and 2 emissions from energy/FTE (tonnes COe/FTE) 5.2 5.9 6.5
2
Total energy used (GWh) 2,636 2,759 2,871
UK energy used (GWh) 711 735 807
% renewably sourced electricity 83% 73% 63%
Total supplied water million m3 7.4 7.5 7.9
Total supplied water in areas of high water stress million m3 0.3 0.3 0.3
Total waste and materials ‘000 metric tonne5 49.7 50.2 55.
% sites that have achieved water stewardship 100% 100% 100%
(1) All data reported excludes our previous Consumer Healthcare business unless otherwise specified
(2)Carbon emissions are calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition). We use
market-based Scope 2 emissions for reporting purposes and report Scope 3 emissions across all 15 categories in our ESG Performance Report. We ask
external assurance providers, Deloitte, to provide limited assurance to ISAE 3000 for energy, Scope 1, 2 and selected Scope 3 carbon emission data, water
and wastewater data. Methodologies for reporting and measurements are provided in the Basis of Reporting 2023 in the ESG resources section of gsk.com
(https://www.gsk.com/en-gb/responsibility/esg-resources/)
(3)‘Other’ refers to emissions from sales force vehicles, propellant emissions released during manufacture of inhalers (the majority of propellant emissions,
released during patient use, are included in Scope 3 carbon emissions), on-site waste, or wastewater treatment and refrigerant gas losses
(4)We collect and publish Scope 3 data across 15 categories. The most recent Scope 3 data available is for 2022 as the process of compiling the 2023 data is
not yet complete, except for 2023 Scope 3 emissions from patient use of inhalers, which are disclosed in the ESG Performance Report. We will publish this
data once it becomes available and it will be included in the 2024 ESG Performance Report
(5)Data for 2021 and 2022 have been restated. See our ESG Performance Report
Nature-related financial disclosures
At GSK we are committed to playing our part to minimise Governance
our impact and dependencies on nature, as well as helping
The board’s oversight of nature-related dependencies,
to protect and restore nature.
impacts, risks and opportunities
Human health relies on the fundamentals of nature: clean
As described on page 62.
air and fresh water. Nature loss has a range of negative
impacts on health, for example, reduced air quality Management’s role in assessing and managing nature-
increases the incidence and severity of respiratory diseases related dependencies, impacts, risks and opportunities
and habitat degradation and deforestation are increasing
In addition to the disclosure on page 63, the Sustainability
the risk of new human pathogens and pandemics.
Council reviewed GSK’s Nature Strategy, ensuring alignment
To protect human health and get ahead of disease,
with ways of working required for Science Based Targets for
we need to protect nature.
Nature (SBTN) and that longer term budgetary
GSK is an active member of the working groups of the requirements had been considered.
Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD).
Our human rights policies, engagement activities and
We have committed to make a full disclosure against the
oversight with respect to indigenous peoples, local
TNFD framework in early 2026 based on 2025 data.
communities, affected and other stakeholders
However, we are making an initial disclosure that is not fully
compliant to the framework to show the progress of our Our position on human rights is published on GSK.com. We
nature programme. have a responsibility to respect human rights through our
engagements with patients, our employees, our suppliers
and the communities in which we live and operate.
70Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Nature-related financial disclosures continued
We are at the beginning of our nature journey, and we are There are concerns that long-term exposure to
working to further formalise policies and procedures related pharmaceuticals in the environment can pose a risk to
to stakeholders’ engagement and human rights specifically environmental species, including aquatic life. The presence
in relation to our assessment of impacts and our action of antibiotics in the environment, and its potential impact
on nature. on driving antibiotic resistance as well as reducing microbial
biodiversity, is a growing concern for many stakeholders
–Protecting and restoring nature is a key part of our
and an active area of research.
climate and nature strategy. As nature investments are
always context dependant, it is key for us to work with While clinical and agricultural practices are generally
expert partners and NGOs to ensure project recognised as the dominant sources of antibiotics entering
implementation includes local experts and local the environment, unregulated manufacturing practices may
communities also contribute to anti-microbial resistance2.
–Before we make decisions on protection and restoration Land
projects, we run a human rights assessment as part of
Our primary dependency on land is due to the natural
our broader due diligence. The assessment allows us to
materials we source, some of which derive from agricultural
understand the local context and history, the process that
commodities, a key driver of deforestation and land use
partners use or plan to use to engage and involve local
change, globally. The supply chains for some of these
communities (including Free, Prior and Informed Consent
commodities are often long and complex and may be many
(FPIC) and grievance mechanisms) and the how benefits
tiers removed from our direct engagement. Our operational
will be shared
land holdings are relatively small, although two of our R&D
–The connection between nature projects and health sites, one in Belgium and one in Spain, are located in Key
benefits has not been consistently included in nature
Biodiversity Areas.
projects and we have worked with third-party experts
to develop and publish a toolkit to enable project Oceans
developers and investors to do that Our impacts and dependencies on oceans come primarily
from marine-derived materials that are a critical part of
Strategy
manufacturing vaccines and medicines. This includes, for
The nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks and example, horseshoe crab blood which is an important
opportunities we have identified over the short, medium substance that is required by some regulators to be used in
and long term pharmaceutical and biomedical quality control processes to
Impacts and dependencies ensure the quality and safety of medicines, vaccines and
devices.
Water
Water is essential for the production of our vaccines and Atmosphere
medicines. We have mapped our water footprint and As a leader in medicines and vaccines for respiratory health,
calculated the volume of water we use in our value chain we want to play our part in improving air quality. We have
and in our own operations and have improved our done an initial assessment to establish an air pollution
understanding as to where in the world we have the footprint in our operations and our supply chain. This
biggest impact on water. showed that, directly, we are having a relatively low impact
on air quality, and that the largest proportion of our
Our primary operational impact on water availability is
emissions sits in our supply chain.
through our own manufacturing sites that are located in
areas of water stress. Using water risk data from the World Waste and Materials
Resources Institute and the World Wildlife Fund, we have Our approach to product stewardship means that we
identified five sites located in water-stressed areas across consider and aim to address impacts on nature and climate
Algeria, India and Pakistan, which face increasing water at every stage of the product lifecycle, from discovery,
availability and quality risks. design, sourcing and manufacturing through to product
Releases of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients are a priority use and disposal. We have set a target to help accelerate
focus for us regarding water quality.1 Pharmaceutical the adoption of this approach.
residues may sometimes pass into the environment as The effect nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks and
part of the normal biological process following patient use. opportunities have on our business model, value chain,
To a lesser extent, pharmaceuticals can also enter the strategy and financial planning, as well as any transition
environment from unused medical products or factory plans or analysis in place.
discharges.
We are committed to have a net positive impact on nature
by 2030 by reducing our environmental impacts across
water, waste and materials, biodiversity and by investing in
nature protection and restoration. We set targets in 2020
with a focus on the realms of nature, as well as supportive
(1) For more information see our public policy: https://www.gsk.com/ targets on waste and materials. We report progress against
media/8867/gsk-position-on-pharmaceuticals-in-the-environment-
our nature plan and targets annually.
march-2022.pdf
(2)Read more about our position on antimicrobial resistance in our public
policy
71Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Nature-related financial disclosures continued
In 2023 we were selected to be one of the first group Since 2020 we have deepened our understanding of our
of companies to work with the Science Based Targets full value chain nature impacts and dependencies and
Network (SBTN) in the pilot to develop and set validated continued to align with evolving practices and guidance.
science-based targets for nature, starting with targets We are following the TNFD LEAP (Locate, Evaluate, Assess
for freshwater and land, followed by targets for oceans and Prepare) methodology to better understand our
and biodiversity. These targets will focus on locations nature-related risks and opportunities and are involved
across our value chain where nature is particularly under in the pilot working with the Science Based Targets Network
pressure. We aim to have pilot science-based targets (SBTN) to set validated science-based targets for nature,
for nature in 2024. starting with targets for freshwater and land, followed by
targets for oceans and biodiversity.
The resilience of our strategy to nature-related risks and
opportunities, taking into consideration different scenarios Our processes for managing nature-related dependencies,
impacts, risks and opportunities
We manage organisational resilience to nature related
risks through the implementation of our sustainability We set targets in 2020 with a focus on the realms of
programme. Our delivery plan will evolve as external nature, as well as supportive targets on waste and materials.
guidance continues to evolve, We report progress against our nature plan and targets
annually.
The locations of our direct operations that meet the criteria
for priority locations Water
Across all of our sites, we maintain high quality water
Freshwater
infrastructure to ensure there is no leakage, and we reduce
We have identified three initial water basins in water-
our overall water use through water-efficiency projects,
stressed areas where we have manufacturing sites,
including behaviour change programmes and introducing
including across India, Pakistan and Algeria, which we
water-efficient cleaning procedures.
have prioritised for investment in water neutrality to achieve
a measurable and positive impact in water-stressed Today, all GSK sites complete a GSK water stewardship
basins on availability, quality and accessibility. assessment, aligned to the Alliance for Water Stewardship
(AWS) standard, and implement action plans to comply
Land
with our standard. For our sites located in water-stressed
Our operational land holdings are relatively small, although
areas, we aim to secure certification under the AWS
two of our R&D sites, one in Belgium and one in Spain, are
standard.
located in Key Biodiversity Areas.
Land
In 2021, we piloted our approach to biodiversity with a
While we work on avoiding or reducing impact by assessing
baseline assessment and action plans at three sites to
opportunities to improve efficiency, material changes or
improving habitats, protecting species and improving soil
switching to alternatives, we have set ambitious standards
and water quality. We have now commenced biodiversity
for suppliers who provide us with materials that are highly
uplift projects at our three largest R&D facilities –
dependent on nature, such as sugar, paper, palm oil,
Stevenage in the UK and Upper Providence and Upper
lactose, gelatine and soy.
Merion in Pennsylvania in the US.
These standards, developed in collaboration with third-
We are addressing 12 critical agricultural, forestry and
party experts, aim to support these suppliers to assess,
marine-derived materials. We have engaged with
improve, and verify their approach to addressing a range
associated suppliers and external independent experts
of nature impacts – and associated climate and social
to map the full supply chains involved, understand existing
impacts – including land use, water stewardship and
sustainability standards, identify gaps and establish
biodiversity.
improvement plans.
As a first stage, we are addressing the 12 most critical
Oceans
materials, including paper and palm oil. We have roadmaps
We committed to restore mangroves in Indonesia, through
in place with an aim to achieve 100% sustainable sourced
community-led projects. Mangroves play a crucial role in
paper and palm oil by 2025. We have engaged with
climate regulation and climate change mitigation because
associated suppliers to map the full supply chains involved,
of their carbon sequestration potential. Mangroves make
understand existing sustainability standards, identify gaps
the local population more resilient to flooding, improve the
and establish action plans.
local fish ecosystem, water quality and contribute to the
health and livelihood of local communities. We are committed to having positive impact on biodiversity
at all our operational sites. We used the Integrated
Risk & impact management
Biodiversity Assessment Tool (IBAT) and have worked with
Our processes for identifying, assessing and prioritising ecological experts to complete mapping and baseline
nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks and biodiversity assessments for 80% of our sites. We are now
opportunities in our direct operations and value chain implementing biodiversity action plans across our estate
with an aim to improve habitats, protect species and
improve soil and water quality.
72Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Nature-related financial disclosures continued
Oceans The collective measurement of direct and value chain
To reduce our impact on oceans, we are implementing our emissions across the Clean Air Fund membership aims to
Marine Sustainable Sourcing Standard which outlines the build a picture of the activities that give rise to poor air
specific requirements that our suppliers of marine-derived quality globally and intends to enable policy makers and
materials must adhere to. industries to make informed decisions, considering the
broader global impacts on health from poor air quality.
As part of our approach to product stewardship, we are
working to reduce the volume of marine-derived materials, Waste and materials
for example, through process efficiencies. In the longer term, Embedding our approach to product stewardship to reduce
we are seeking to transition to alternatives to marine- our impact on nature means working to minimise the waste
derived materials, wherever possible from both a technical and materials used, and the waste and pollution generated,
and regulatory perspective. from delivering our medicines and vaccines across the full
product lifecycle. We have already achieved zero
Atmosphere
operational waste to landfill and we continue to build on our
The outcome of an initial air quality assessment highlighted
long-standing operational waste management programme
opportunities for reductions in emissions linked to on-site
to identify opportunities to achieve more beneficial use from
electricity generation and use of solid fuels, car use and
waste. However, there is a risk that circular routes of
move to electric fleet, as well as indicating opportunities
recovery for all our waste streams may still not exist by 2030.
in our value chain for the sourcing of plastic and glass
products. For our supply chain, we’re working on a waste footprint
assessment to help with supplier engagement on waste
We are creating reduction plans around these key areas
reduction, and on product design so we can build in
that are aligned to our pathway to net zero and which aim
circularity and reduce waste by design.
to have a positive impact on air quality.
How our processes for identifying, assessing, prioritising
We are conducting an additional air quality assessment,
and monitoring nature-related risks are integrated into
working with Stockholm Environment Institute (SEI) and the
and inform our overall risk management processes
University of York, broadening the suite of air pollutants to
be taken into consideration to understand their impact We are a part of the first group of companies to be working
across our value chain and their connection to human with the Science Based Targets Network (SBTN) to set
health. validated science-based targets for nature, starting with
targets for freshwater and land, followed by targets for
To help accelerate collective action on air pollution, we are
oceans and biodiversity. These targets will focus on
members of the Alliance for Clean Air through the Clean Air
locations across our value chain where nature is particularly
Fund (CAF) and the World Economic Forum, which aims to
under pressure. We aim to have science-based targets for
drive corporate action on clean air to accelerate climate
nature in 2024.
action and create healthy communities around the world.
We continue to work towards our existing targets while we
work through the SBTN pilot. Our delivery plan will continue
to evolve as we go through SBTN target validation, as
external guidance continues to evolve, and our data is
developed, primarily through greater supply chain
traceability.
Metrics and targets
We report performance against our existing targets using
metrics for water use and waste and materials see table
on page 70.
Realm Key performance indicator
Freshwater Average of the percentage of GSK sites and suppliers compliant with wastewater active pharmaceutical
ingredient limits and the percentage of suppliers that are compliant with the AMR Industry Alliance Common
Antibiotic Manufacturing Framework and discharge limits
Land The percentage of paper and palm oil that is deforestation free
Waste and materials The reduction in routine operational hazardous and non-hazardous waste
73Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Nature-related financial disclosures continued
GSK sets the following targets for managing our nature commitments:
Focus area Target
Freshwater – 100% of our sites to achieve good water stewardship by 2025 and reduce overall water use by 20% by 2030
– Water neutral in operations and with key suppliers in water-stressed regions by 2030
– Zero impact active pharmaceutical ingredient levels1 for all our sites and key suppliers by 20302
Land – Positive impact on biodiversity at all sites3 by 2030
– 100% of agricultural and forestry derived materials sustainably sourced and deforestation free by 20302,4
Oceans – 100% of marine-derived materials sustainably sourced by 2030
Atmosphere – 100% renewable electricity by 2025 (Scope 2)2
– 80% reduction in carbon emissions across our full value chain by 20302
– Net zero carbon emissions across our full value chain by 20452
Waste and materials – Zero operational waste5 10, including eliminating single use plastics6 by 20302
– 10% waste reduction from supply chain by 2030
– 25% environmental impact reduction for our products and packaging by 2030
(1) Below the predicted no-effect level
(2)Linked with the remuneration of our senior leaders
(3)GSK sites
(4)Target updated in December 2021 to reflect priority materials
(5)Including a 20% reduction in routine hazardous and non-hazardous waste
(6)Where regulatory obligations allow, and excluding plastics which are critical to product discovery and development and health & safety
74Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Non-financial and sustainability information statement
The following aligns to the non-financial reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies
Act 2006.
Description of the business model Human rights Policy, due diligence and outcomes
Business model 8 Human rights 54 Risk management 57
Social matters Working with third parties 54 Viability statement 76
Access 47 Data and engagement 54 Audit & Risk Committee report 133
Global health and health security 48 Anti-bribery and corruption Principal risks and uncertainties 284
Employees Ethical standards 53 Non-financial key performance
indicators
Our culture and people 14 Reporting and investigating
concerns 54 2023 performance and key
Employee engagement 15
performance indicators 2
Environmental matters
Wellbeing and development 15
Our policies
Environment 49
Diversity, equity and inclusion 52
All of our public policies, codes and
Climate-related financial
Gender pay gap 53 standards are available on gsk.com
disclosures 62
Ethical standards 53
Nature-related financial disclosures 70
Board diversity 130
Employees by gender
Male Female Total
Board1 7 5 12
Management1,2 8,682 8,788 17,470
All employees3 36,510 33,702 70,212
(1) Headcounts as of 31 December 2023
(2)Senior managers as defined in the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013
(3)‘Total’ calculated as full-time equivalent employees (FTEs) as of 31 December 2023. ‘Male’ and ‘female’ calculated by applying ‘all employees’ gender
diversity percentages to ‘total’ FTE number
75Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Viability statement
In accordance with provision 31 of the 2018 revision of the The downside scenarios consider GSK’s cash flows,
Code, GSK has assessed the prospects of the Group over sustainability of dividends, funding strategy, insurance
a longer period than the 12 months required by the ‘Going provision and recovery as well as other key financial ratios
Concern’ provision. The Directors confirm that they have over the period. These metrics have been subject to
a reasonable expectation that GSK will continue to operate sensitivity analysis, which involves flexing a number of the
and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, over the next three main assumptions underlying the forecasts both individually
years. The Directors’ assessment has been made with and in combination, along with mitigating actions that
reference to GSK’s current position and prospects, our could realistically be taken to avoid or reduce the impact
strategy, the Board’s risk appetite and GSK’s principal risks or occurrence of the underlying risk.
and how these are managed, as detailed on pages 57 to 61
The following hypothetical downside scenarios have been
in the Strategic report.
evaluated:
The Board reviews our internal controls and risk
Scenario 1: Business performance risks. These include key
management policies and approves our governance
performance risks, including lower sales from new products,
structure and code of conduct. It also appraises and
greater adverse impact from generic competition and other
approves major financing, investment and licensing
competitive launches to other GSK products, as well as
decisions, and evaluates and monitors the performance
possible supply and manufacturing challenges.
and prospects of GSK as a whole. The focus is largely on
improving our long-term financial performance through Scenario 2: External and macroeconomic risks. This scenario
delivery of our company’s business strategies and aligned reflects incremental risks to the business driven by outside
priorities. factors, such as more intense competition, increased pricing
pressure in both the US and Europe as well as the potential
The Board reviews GSK’s strategy and makes significant
impact of material negative changes in the macro-
capital investment decisions over a long-term time horizon,
economic and healthcare environment.
based on a multi-year assessment of return on capital, the
performance of the company, and the market opportunities Scenario 3: Principal risks. This scenario includes a severe
in medicines and vaccines. This approach is aligned to assessment of the potential loss impact from the principal
GSK’s model of achieving balanced growth by investing in risks related to patient safety, product quality, supply chain
high quality, innovative products for patients and healthcare continuity, information and cyber security and
providers. However, since many internal and external environmental harm as well as anti-bribery and corruption
parameters become increasingly unpredictable over longer and any consequent regulatory actions, fines or significant
time horizons, GSK focuses its detailed, bottom-up Plan on litigation, all of which could fundamentally threaten our
a three-year cycle. The Plan is reviewed at least annually operations. These risks are managed through mitigating
by the Directors, who approve business forecasts showing activities described on pages 284 to 294.
expected financial impact. The Directors believe that a
Scenario 4: Put option exercise. This scenario evaluates
three-year assessment period for the Viability statement
the additional funding requirements assuming the earliest
is most appropriate as it aligns with the Group’s well
potential exercise of the outstanding put option held by
established business planning processes that balance the
Pfizer Inc.
long-term nature of investments in medicines and vaccines
with an assessment of the period over which analysis of The three-year review also makes certain assumptions
near-term business performance is realistically visible. about the normal level of capital recycling likely to occur
and considers whether additional financing facilities will
The Plan has been stress tested in a series of robust
be required and the respective level of funding flexibility
operational and principal risk downside scenarios as part
and headroom.
of the Board’s review on risk. The Plan assumes the next
several years to be challenging for the healthcare industry The results of this stress testing show that certain
with continued pressure on pricing of pharmaceuticals and combinations of these hypothetical scenarios could increase
uncertain economic conditions prevailing across many funding demands on GSK and require mitigating changes
markets in which GSK operates. GSK assumes no premature to the Group’s funding strategy. However, in light of the
loss of exclusivity for key products over the period and for liquidity available to the Group and based on this analysis,
all anticipated launches to proceed as planned. the Directors have a reasonable expectation that, even
under these most severe stress tests, the Group will be able
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall
due over the three-year period of assessment.
76GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial
review
In this section
Summary full year results 78
Financial performance summary 81
Reporting framework 82
Financial performance 86
Adjusting items 93
Cash generation and conversion 97
Financial position and resources 98
Approach to tax 103
Treasury policies 104
Critical accounting policies 105
77Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review
Summary full year results
Full year Growth Growth Full year Full year
2023 AER CER 2022 2021
£m % % £m £m
Results summary
Turnover 30,328 3 5 29,324 24,696
Turnover excluding COVID-19 solutions 30,134 12 14 26,951 23,291
Total continuing operating profit 6,745 5 10 6,433 4,357
Total operating margin 22.2% 0.3ppts 1.0ppts 21.9% 17.6%
Total continuing EPS 121.6p 10 16 110.8p 82.9p
Adjusted operating profit 8,786 8 12 8,151 6,493
Adjusted operating margin 29.0% 1.2ppts 1.8ppts 27.8% 26.3%
Adjusted EPS 155.1p 11 16 139.7p 110.3p
Cash flow
Cash generated from operations 8,096 2 7,944 7,249
Free cash flow 3,409 2 3,348 3,301
(2023 Financial results unless otherwise stated, growth % and commentary at CER. Ex COVID is excluding COVID-19 solutions as defined on page 85).
GSK delivered an excellent performance in
2023 with sales of £30.3 billion and double
digit adjusted operating profit and
adjusted EPS per share growth at CER. As
a consequence of this performance, we
were also pleased to increase the dividend
for the year. In 2024, we expect another
year of meaningful growth for GSK, driven
by a continued focus on execution,
strengthening our pipeline and capital
allocation.
Delivering a step-change in financial Total continuing EPS grew 16%, reflecting strong profit growth
and lower charges related to the remeasurement of
performance in 2023
contingent consideration liabilities, partly offset by a fair value
In 2023 our sales were £30,328 million, an increase of 5% loss on the retained stake in Haleon plc compared to a fair
overall reflecting continued strong business performance with value gain in the same period in the prior year. In addition,
strong growth in Vaccines (Arexvy and Shingrix) and HIV, there is an unfavourable comparison due to upfront income
excluding COVID-19 solutions sales grew 14%. Total operating received from the settlement with Gilead Sciences Inc. in 2022.
profit increased 10% to £6,745 million, driven by overall Adjusted EPS grew 16% overall (with further positive impact of
performance and favourable contingent consideration +6% excluding COVID-19 solutions), benefiting from a lower
liabilities (CCL) movements. Adjusted operating profit grew net finance expense, which decreased 15% following debt
12% to £8,786 million (with further positive impact of +4% restructuring. The effective adjusted tax rate was 15.5% in line
excluding COVID-19 solutions). Adjusted operating margin with 2022 and our guidance.
increased to 29%, driven largely by favourable product mix
and operational efficiencies, as well as increased royalties. Improved 2023 operating margins
The reconciliation of Total to Adjusted results is included on Total operating profit margin was higher in 2023 due to
page 93. profitable growth across the portfolio, favourable movements
Total and adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of sales in contingent consideration liabilities, partly offset by an
decreased in the full year reflecting reduced sales of lower unfavourable comparison due to upfront income received
margin Xevudy compared to 2022. Total and adjusted SG&A from the settlement with Gilead Sciences Inc. in 2022.
growth was focused on investment in Vaccines, including Adjusted operating profit margin improved primarily due to
disease awareness and the launch of Arexvy, together with reduced sales of lower-margin Xevudy. Excluding COVID-19
Shingrix, long-acting HIV, Jemperli and Ojjaara. R&D costs solutions, Adjusted operating profit margin improved due to
increased due to investment in late-stage programmes in product mix, productivity improvements and increased royalty
Vaccines, Respiratory/Immunology and Infectious diseases. income. Growth in SG&A reflected investment in Vaccines,
including disease awareness and the launch of Arexvy,
together with Shingrix, long-acting HIV, Jemperli and Ojjaara.
Royalty income also contributed to margin improvement.
78Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
2023 cash flow performance Net Debt improvement
Our total full year Cash Generated From Operations Our net debt position decreased to £15 billion by the end of
increased to £8,096 million despite annualising the Gilead 2023. We look to deploy funds to enhance growth and deliver
Sciences Inc. settlement in Quarter 1 2022 (£0.9 billion) due to attractive shareholder returns. We started the year with net
higher Adjusted operating profit, favourable timing of Xevudy debt of £17.2 billion and strong free cash generation, in
cash flows and lower UK pension contributions partly offset by addition to the monetisation of our stake in Haleon plc,
higher receivables from Arexvy sales. Net capital investment supported £3.8 billion of investment in targeted business
increased primarily due to lower proceeds from asset development and capital expenditure and £2.2 billion was
disposals than in 2022 resulting in Free Cash Flow from returned to shareholders via the dividend.
continuing operations increasing to £3,409 million.
Capital deployment supports business growth and shareholder returns
(1) Free Cash Flow (FCF) is £3.4bn, including the capital expenditure (net of disposal proceeds for plant, property & equipment) and intangibles of £1.3bn and £1.0bn
(2) Other includes dividend and distribution income, exchange on net debt and other financing items
Capital allocation framework to support Our capital allocation framework to support
investment and returns investment and returns
Priority is to invest for growth, coupled with attractive Our capital allocation framework means our first priority
shareholder returns remains to invest in the business, with capital allocated
towards development of the pipeline, both organic and
targeted business development.
We also remain committed to delivering attractive returns to
shareholders and pursuing a progressive dividend policy,
guided by a 40 to 60 percent pay-out ratio through the
investment cycle. In setting its dividend policy, GSK considers
the priorities of the Group and its investment strategy for
growth, alongside the sustainability of the dividend.
Consistent with this, and reflecting strong business
performance during the year, GSK now expects to declare an
increased dividend of 58.00p per share for full year 2023. The
expected dividend for 2024 is 60.00p.
In the event of surplus cash, the excess would be returned to
shareholders. We remain committed to maintaining a
balance sheet with a strong investment grade credit rating.
(1) GSK group dividend in 2022; GSK related only and excludes dividend related to
Consumer Healthcare in H1-2022; FY 2022 dividend 61.25p/share
79Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
2024 guidance at CER (excluding COVID-19 2021-26 and 2031 Outlooks at CER
solutions) In January 2024, GSK announced upgraded outlooks, from
For 2024, we expect another year of meaningful growth for those previously given, for the period 2021-2026 and for 2031.
GSK, our guidance is provided at CER and excludes the impact For the period 2021-2026, GSK now expects sales to grow
of COVID-19 solutions. Sales are expected to increase between more than 7% on a CAGR basis and adjusted operating profit
5 and 7 per cent, Adjusted operating profit is expected to to increase more than 11%, on the same basis. This compares
increase between 7 and 10 per cent with Adjusted earnings per to previous outlooks of more than 5% and more than 10%
share expected to increase between 6 and 9 per cent. respectively. Adjusted operating profit margin in 2026 is now
expected to be more than 31%.
This guidance is supported by the following turnover
expectations for full year 2024: By 2031, GSK now expects to achieve sales of more than £38
billion on a risk-adjusted basis and at CER. GSK expects to
–For Vaccines, we expect high single digit to low double- maintain a continued strong focus on margin improvements,
digit percent growth while retaining flexibility to invest in future growth.
–For Specialty Medicines, we expect a low double-digit per Recognising that GSK will likely face loss of exclusivity for
cent growth dolutegravir during 2028 to 2030 in the US and EU, with the
majority of impact 2029 to 2030, GSK stated that it expects
–For General Medicines, we expect sales will decrease by a
operating margins to be broadly stable through this period.
mid-single-digit per cent
GSK expects an effective transition within its HIV portfolio
Adjusted Operating profit is expected to grow between 7 to towards new long-acting treatment and prevention therapies,
10 per cent at CER, despite a 6 percentage point impact to margin mix benefit from growth in higher operating margin
Operating Profit growth following the loss of Gardasil royalties Vaccine and Specialty Medicine products, and a continued
effective from the beginning of 2024. GSK expects to deliver focus on achievable productivity gains, notably in supply
leverage at a gross margin level due to improved product mix chain and in SG&A.
from Vaccines and Specialty Medicines growth and
All expectations, guidance and outlooks regarding future
continued operational efficiencies. In addition, GSK
performance and dividend payments should be read together
anticipates further leverage in Operating Profit due to a step
with ‘Guidance and outlooks, assumptions and cautionary
down in SG&A growth to a low single-digit increase. R&D is
statements’ on inside back cover.
expected to increase broadly in line with sales to support
growth of the pipeline.
Adjusted Earnings per share is now expected to increase
between 6 to 9 per cent at CER, reflecting higher operating
profit and more favourable net finance costs. Expectations for
non-controlling interests remain unchanged relative to 2023,
and GSK anticipates, as previously communicated, an
increase in the adjusted effective tax rate to around 17%
following implementation of a global minimum corporate
income tax rate aligned with the Organisation for Economic
Co-Operation and Development ‘Pillar 2’ initiative.
COVID-19 solutions
We do not anticipate any future revenue from COVID-19
solutions and this will reduce sales growth by 1% and Adjusted
operating profit growth by 2% in 2024.
Currency impact
If exchange rates were to hold at the closing rates on 24
January 2024 ($1.27/£1, €1.17/£1 and Yen 188/£1) for the rest
of 2024, the estimated impact on 2024 Sterling turnover
growth for GSK would be -3% and if exchange gains or losses
were recognised at the same level as in 2023, the estimated
impact on 2024 Sterling Adjusted Operating Profit growth for
GSK would be -5%.
80Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Financial performance summary
The Total results of the Group are set out below.
2023 2022 Growth
% of % of
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
Turnover 30,328 100 29,324 100 3 5
Cost of sales (8,565) (28.2) (9,554) (32.6) (10) (10)
Gross profit 21,763 71.8 19,770 67.4 10 13
Selling, general and administration (9,385) (30.9) (8,372) (28.6) 12 14
Research and development (6,223) (20.5) (5,488) (18.7) 13 14
Royalty income 953 3.1 758 2.6 26 26
Other operating income/(expense) (363) (1.3) (235) (0.8)
Operating profit 6,745 22.2 6,433 21.9 5 10
Net finance costs (677) (803)
Share of after tax profits/(losses) of associates and joint ventures (5) (2)
Profit/(loss) on disposal of interest in associates and joint ventures 1 –
Profit before taxation 6,064 5,628 8 14
Taxation (756) (707)
Profit after taxation from continuing operations 5,308 4,921 8 14
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations and other – 3,049
gains/(losses) from the demerger
Remeasurement of discontinued operations distributed to – 7,651
shareholders on demerger
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations – 10,700 (100) (100)
Total profit after taxation for the year 5,308 15,621
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests from continuing 380 460
operations
Profit attributable to shareholders from continuing operations 4,928 4,461
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests from discontinued – 205
operations
Profit attributable to shareholders from discontinued operations – 10,495
5,308 15,621 (66) (64)
Total profit attributable to non-controlling interests 380 665
Total profit attributable to shareholders 4,928 14,956
5,308 15,621 (66) (64)
Earnings per share from continuing operations (pence) 121.6p 110.8p 10 16
Earnings per share from discontinued operations (pence) – 260.6p (100) (100)
Total earnings per share (pence) 121.6p 371.4p (67) (65)
Earnings per ADS from continuing operations (US$) 3.02 2.75
Earnings per ADS from discontinued operations (US$) – 6.46
Total earnings per ADS (US$) 3.02 9.21
The Adjusted results for the Group are set out below. Reconciliations between Total results and Adjusted results for 2023 and 2022
are set out on pages 93 to 94.
2023 2022 Growth
% of % of
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
Turnover 30,328 100 29,324 100 3 5
Cost of sales (7,716) (25.4) (8,741) (29.8) (12) (11)
Selling, general and administration (9,029) (29.8) (8,128) (27.7) 11 13
Research and development (5,750) (19.0) (5,062) (17.3) 14 14
Royalty income 953 3.2 758 2.6 26 26
Adjusted operating profit 8,786 29.0 8,151 27.8 8 12
Adjusted profit attributable to non-controlling interest 572 595
Adjusted profit attributable to shareholders 6,283 5,625
Adjusted profit after taxation 6,855 6,220 10 15
Adjusted earnings per share (p) 155.1p 139.7p 11 16
81Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Reporting framework
Total and Adjusted results Costs for all other ordinary course smaller scale restructuring
and legal charges and expenses are retained within both Total
The Group financial review discusses the operating and
and Adjusted results.
financial performance of the Group, its cash flows and financial
position and our resources. The results for each year are As Adjusted results include the benefits of Major restructuring
compared primarily with the results of the preceding year. programmes but exclude significant costs (such as
amortisation of intangible assets except for computer software
Total results
and capitalised development costs, significant legal, major
Total reported results represent the Group’s overall restructuring and transaction items), they should not be
performance. regarded as a complete picture of the Group’s financial
performance, which is presented in its Total results. The
GSK also uses a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to
exclusion of other Adjusting items may result in Adjusted
report the performance of its business. Adjusted results and
earnings being materially higher or lower than Total earnings. In
other non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to,
particular, when significant impairments, restructuring charges
but not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented
and legal costs are excluded, Adjusted earnings will be higher
in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted results are defined below
than Total earnings.
and other non-IFRS measures are defined on page 83.
GSK has undertaken a number of Major restructuring
GSK believes that Adjusted results, when considered together
programmes in response to significant changes in the Group’s
with Total results, provide investors, analysts and other
trading environment or overall strategy or following material
stakeholders with helpful complementary information to
acquisitions. Within the Pharmaceuticals sector, the highly
understand better the financial performance and position of
regulated manufacturing operations and supply chains and
the Group from period to period, and allow the Group’s
long lifecycle of the business mean that restructuring
performance to be more easily compared against the majority
programmes, particularly those that involve the rationalisation
of its peer companies. These measures are also used by
or closure of manufacturing or R&D sites are likely to take
management for planning and reporting purposes and when
several years to complete. Costs, both cash and non-cash, of
determining compensation. They may not be directly
these programmes are provided for as individual elements are
comparable with similarly described measures used by other
approved and meet the accounting recognition criteria. As a
companies.
result, charges may be incurred over a number of years
GSK encourages investors and analysts not to rely on any following the initiation of a Major restructuring programme.
single financial measure but to review GSK’s Annual Reports,
Significant legal charges and expenses are those arising from
including the financial statements and notes, in their entirety.
the settlement of litigation or government investigations that
Adjusted results are not in the normal course and are materially larger than
more regularly occurring individual matters. They also include
Adjusted results exclude the profits from discontinued
certain major legacy matters.
operations from the Consumer Healthcare business (see
details on page 238) and the following items in relation to our Reconciliations between Total and Adjusted results, providing
continuing operations from Total results, together with the tax further information on the key Adjusting items for 2023, 2022
effects of all of these items: and 2021, are set out on pages 93 to 95.
–amortisation of intangible assets (excluding computer GSK provides earnings guidance to the investor community on
software and capitalised development costs) the basis of Adjusted results. This practice is in line with peer
–impairment of intangible assets (excluding computer companies and expectations of the investor community,
software) and goodwill supporting easier comparison of the Group’s performance with
–Major restructuring costs, which include impairments of its peers. GSK is not able to give guidance for Total results as it
tangible assets and computer software, (under specific cannot reliably forecast certain material elements of the Total
Board approved programmes that are structural, of a results, particularly the future fair value movements on
significant scale and where the costs of individual or related contingent consideration and put options that can and have
projects exceed £25 million) including integration costs given rise to significant adjustments driven by external factors
following material acquisitions such as currency and other movements in capital markets.
–transaction-related accounting or other adjustments related
to significant acquisitions
–proceeds and costs of disposals of associates, products
and businesses; significant settlement income; significant
legal charges (net of insurance recoveries) and expenses on
the settlement of litigation and government investigations;
other operating income other than royalty income, and other
items
82Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Reporting framework continued
Historical record of Adjusting items
The reconciliations between Total and Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations over the last three years can be
summarised as follows:
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Total operating profit from continuing operations 6,745 6,433 4,357
Intangible amortisation 719 739 761
Intangible impairment 398 296 347
Major restructuring 382 321 424
Transaction-related items 572 1,750 1,143
Divestments, significant legal and other items (30) (1,388) (539)
Adjusted results 8,786 8,151 6,493
The analysis of the impact of transaction-related items on operating profit for each of the last three years is as follows:
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Contingent consideration on former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare JV (including Shionogi preferential dividends) 934 1,431 1,026
ViiV Healthcare put options and Pfizer preferential dividends (245) 85 48
Contingent consideration on former Novartis Vaccines business (187) 193 27
Contingent consideration on acquisition of Affinivax 44 17 –
Other adjustments 26 24 42
Transaction-related items 572 1,750 1,143
Full reconciliations between Total and Adjusted results for 2021–2023 including continuing and discontinued operations are set out
on pages 93 to 95. Further explanations on the Adjusting items for 2023 are reported on page 96.
Other non-IFRS measures Return on capital employed
Return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before
Free cash flow taxation as a percentage of average net assets over the year.
Free cash flow is defined as the net cash inflow/outflow from Total net debt
continuing operating activities less capital expenditure on
Net debt is defined as total borrowings less cash, cash
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets,
equivalents, liquid investments, and short-term loans to third
contingent consideration payments, net finance costs, and
parties that are subject to an insignificant risk of change in
dividends paid to non-controlling interests, contributions from
value. Please see Note 30 ‘Net Debt’ for the calculation of net
non-controlling interests plus proceeds from the sale of
debt.
property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, and
dividends received from joint ventures and associates (all Total Operating Margin
attributable to continuing operations). It is used by
Total operating margin is operating profit divided by turnover.
management for planning and reporting purposes and in
discussions with and presentations to investment analysts and Adjusted Operating Margin
rating agencies. Free cash flow growth is calculated on a
Adjusted operating margin is Adjusted operating profit divided
reported basis. A reconciliation of net cash inflow from
by turnover.
continuing operations to free cash flow from continuing
operations is set out on page 97. Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR)
Working capital CAGR is defined as the compound annual growth rate and
shows the annualised average rate of revenue growth between
Working capital represents inventory and trade receivables
a number of given years, assuming growth takes place at an
less trade payables.
exponentially compounded rate.
CER and AER growth
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Group’s
practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange
rate (CER) growth. This represents growth calculated as if the
exchange rates used to determine the results of overseas
companies in Sterling had remained unchanged from those
used in the comparative period. CER% represents growth at
constant exchange rates. £% or AER% represents growth at
actual exchange rates.
83Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Reporting framework continued
Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare The cash payments are reflected in the cash flow statement
partly in operating cash flows and partly within investing
Trading profit allocations
activities. The tax relief on these payments is reflected in the
As ViiV Healthcare is a subsidiary of the Group, 100% Group’s Adjusting items as part of the tax charge. The part of
of its operating results (turnover, operating profit, profit after each payment relating to the original estimate of the fair value
tax) are included within the Group income statement and then of the contingent consideration on the acquisition of the
a portion of the earnings is allocated to the non-controlling Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012 of £659 million is
interests owned by the other shareholders, in line with their reported within investing activities in the cash flow statement
respective equity shareholdings (Pfizer, Inc. (Pfizer) 11.7% and and the part of each payment relating to the increase in the
Shionogi & Co. Ltd (Shionogi) 10%). Each of the shareholders, liability since the acquisition is reported within operating cash
including GSK, is also entitled to preferential dividends flows.
determined by the performance of certain products that each
Movements in contingent consideration payable to Shionogi
shareholder contributed. As the relative performance of these
were as follows:
products changes over time, the proportion of the overall
earnings allocated to each shareholder also changes. In 2023 2022
particular, the increasing proportion of sales of dolutegravir- £m £m
and cabotegravir-containing products has a favourable Contingent consideration at beginning
impact on the proportion of the preferential dividends that is of the year 5,890 5,559
allocated to GSK. Adjusting items are allocated to Remeasurement through income statement
shareholders based on their equity interests. GSK was entitled and other movements 934 1,431
to approximately 84% of the Total earnings and 83% of the Cash payments: operating cash flows (1,106) (1,031)
Adjusted earnings of ViiV Healthcare for 2023. Cash payments: investing activities – (69)
Contingent consideration at end of the year 5,718 5,890
Remeasurements of the liabilities for the preferential dividends
allocated to Pfizer and Shionogi are included within other
operating income/(expenses). Of the contingent consideration payable (on a post-tax basis)
to Shionogi at 31 December 2023, £1,017 million (31 December
Acquisition-related arrangements 2022: £940 million) is expected to be paid within one year.
As consideration for the acquisition of Shionogi’s interest in the
Exit rights
former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012, Shionogi
received the 10% equity stake in ViiV Healthcare and ViiV Pfizer may request an IPO of ViiV Healthcare at any time and if
Healthcare also agreed to pay additional future cash either GSK does not consent to such IPO or an offering is not
consideration to Shionogi, contingent on the future sales completed within nine months, Pfizer could require GSK to
performance of the products being developed by that joint acquire its shareholding. Under the original agreements, GSK
venture, dolutegravir and cabotegravir. Under IFRS 3 `Business had the unconditional right, so long as it made no subsequent
combinations’, GSK was required to provide for the estimated distribution to its shareholders, to withhold its consent to the
fair value of this contingent consideration at the time of exercise of the Pfizer put option and, as a result, in accordance
acquisition and is required to update the liability to the latest with IFRS, GSK did not recognise a liability for the put option on
estimate of fair value at each subsequent period end. The its balance sheet. However, during Q1 2016, GSK notified Pfizer
liability for the contingent consideration recognised in the that it had irrevocably given up this right and accordingly
balance sheet at the date of acquisition was £659 million. recognised the liability for the put option on the Group’s
Subsequent re-measurements are reflected within other balance sheet during Q1 2016 at an initial value of £1,070
operating income/(expenses) and within Adjusting items in the million. Consistent with this revised treatment, at the end of Q1
income statement in each period. 2016 GSK also recognised liabilities for the future preferential
dividends anticipated to become payable to Pfizer and
Cash payments to settle the contingent consideration are Shionogi on the Group’s balance sheet.
made to Shionogi by ViiV Healthcare each quarter, based on
the actual sales performance and other income of the relevant Pfizer has the right to require GSK to acquire its shareholding in
products in the previous quarter. These payments reduce the ViiV Healthcare in certain circumstances at any time. A put
balance sheet liability and hence are not recorded in the option liability is therefore recorded on the Group’s balance
income statement, but are included in the cash flow. The cash sheet as a current liability. It is measured on the gross
payments made to Shionogi by ViiV Healthcare in 2023 were redemption basis derived from an internal valuation of the ViiV
£1,106 million. Healthcare business.
As the liability is required to be recorded at the fair value of The closing balances of the liabilities related to Pfizer’s
estimated future payments, there is a significant timing shareholding are as follows:
difference between the charges that are recorded in the
2023 2022
Total income statement to reflect movements in the fair value of £m £m
the liability and the actual cash payments made to settle Pfizer put option 848 1,093
the liability.
84Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Reporting framework continued
Under the original agreements, Shionogi could also have Specialty Medicines
requested GSK to acquire its shareholding in ViiV Healthcare in
Specialty Medicines are typically prescription medicines used to
six-month windows commencing in 2017, 2020 and 2022. GSK
treat complex or rare chronic conditions. For GSK, this
had the unconditional right, so long as it made no subsequent
comprises medicines in infectious diseases, HIV, Oncology,
distribution to its shareholders, to withhold its consent to the
Respiratory/Immunology and Other.
exercise of the Shionogi put option and, as a result, GSK did not
recognise a liability for the put option on its balance sheet. Share Consolidation
However, during Q1 2016, GSK notified Shionogi that it had
Following completion of the Consumer Healthcare business
irrevocably given up this right and accordingly recognised the
demerger on 18 July 2022, GSK plc Ordinary shares were
liability for the put option on the Group’s balance sheet during
consolidated to maintain share price comparability before and
Q1 2016 at an initial value of £926 million. In Q4 2016, Shionogi
after demerger. Shareholders received 4 new Ordinary shares
irrevocably agreed to waive its put option and, as a result, GSK
with a nominal value of 31¼ pence each for every 5 existing
de-recognised the liability for this put option on the Group’s
Ordinary shares which had a nominal value of 25 pence each.
balance sheet directly to equity. The value of the liability was
Earnings per share, diluted earnings per share, adjusted
£1,244 million when it was de-recognised.
earnings per share and dividends per share were retrospectively
GSK also has a call option over Shionogi’s shareholding in ViiV adjusted to reflect the Share Consolidation in all the periods
Healthcare, which under the original agreements was presented.
exercisable in six-month windows commencing in 2027, 2030
Earnings per share
and 2032. GSK has now irrevocably agreed to waive the first
two exercise windows, but the last six-month window in 2032 Earnings per share has been retrospectively adjusted for the
remains. As this call option is at fair value, it has no value for Share Consolidation on 18 July 2022, applying a ratio of 4 new
accounting purposes. Ordinary shares for every 5 existing Ordinary shares.
Reporting definitions Total Earnings per share
Unless otherwise stated, Total earnings per share refers to Total
COVID-19 solutions basic earnings per share.
COVID-19 solutions include the sales of pandemic adjuvant
RAR (Returns and Rebates)
and other COVID-19 solutions including vaccine
manufacturing and Xevudy and the associated costs but does GSK sells to customers, both commercial and government
not include reinvestment in R&D. This categorisation is used by mandated contracts, with reimbursement arrangements that
management and we believe is helpful to investors through include rebates, chargebacks and a right of return for certain
providing clarity on the results of the Group by showing the pharmaceutical products principally in the US. Revenue
contribution to growth from COVID-19 solutions. recognition reflects gross-to-net sales adjustments as a result.
These adjustments are known as the RAR accruals and are a
Turnover excluding COVID-19 solutions source of significant estimation, uncertainty and fluctuation
Turnover excluding COVID-19 solutions excludes the impact of which can have a material impact on reported revenue from
sales of pandemic adjuvant within Vaccines and Xevudy within one accounting period to the next.
Specialty Medicines related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Total Operating Margin
Management believes that the exclusion of the impact of these
COVID-19 solutions sales aids comparability in the reporting Total Operating margin is Total operating profit divided by
periods and understanding of GSK’s growth including by region turnover.
versus prior periods and also 2024 Guidance which excludes
Adjusted Operating Margin
any contributions from COVID-19 solutions.
Adjusted operating margin is Adjusted operating profit divided
Adjusted operating profit excluding COVID-19
by turnover.
solutions
Discontinued operations
Adjusted operating profit excludes the impact of Commercial
Consumer Healthcare was presented as a discontinued
Operations COVID-19 solutions for Xevudy and pandemic
operation from Q2 2022. The demerger of Consumer
adjuvant.
Healthcare was completed on 18 July 2022. The Group Income
Adjusted earnings per share excluding COVID-19 Statement and Group Cash Flow Statement distinguish
solutions discontinued operations from continuing operations.
Adjusted earnings per share excludes the impact of Percentage points
Commercial Operations COVID-19 solutions for Xevudy and
Percentage points of growth which is abbreviated to ppts.
pandemic adjuvant.
Non-controlling interest
General Medicines
Non-controlling interest is the equity in a subsidiary not
General medicines are usually prescribed in the primary
attributable, directly or indirectly, to a parent.
care or community settings by general healthcare practitioners.
For GSK, this includes medicines in inhaled respiratory, Brand names and partner acknowledgements
dermatology, antibiotics and other diseases.
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this document are
trademarks of GSK or associated companies or used under
licence by the Group.
85Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Financial performance
Group turnover Vaccines
Group turnover was £30,328 million in the year, up 3% at Turnover (£bn)
AER, 5% at CER. In 2023 sales grew 12% at AER, 14% CER
AER growth CER growth
excluding COVID-19 solutions. £9.9bn
24% 25%
Group turnover by business
l Vaccines 32% of Group turnover
£9.9bn
AER growth 24% CER growth 25% 2021 6.8
l Speciality Medicines 2022 7.9
£10.2bn
2023 9.9
AER decline -9% CER decline -8%
Vaccines turnover
l General Medicines
Vaccines turnover excluding COVID-19 solutions
£10.2bn
£9.7bn
AER growth 1% CER growth 5%
AER growth 23% CER growth 24%
Pandemic turnover
£0.2bn
Group turnover by geographic region
AER growth >100 CER growth >100
l US
£15.8bn Double-digit growth for Vaccines in the full year was driven by
the successful launch of Arexvy in the US and continued strong
AER growth 9% CER growth 9%
uptake of Shingrix in International and Europe. Pandemic
l Europe vaccines sales mostly include GSK’s share of 2023 contracted
£6.6bn European volumes related to a COVID-19 booster vaccine co-
developed with Sanofi.
AER growth 3% CER growth 2%
Shingles
l International
£7.9bn 2023 2022 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER%
AER decline -6% CER growth 1% Shingles 3,446 2,958 16 17
Shingrix, a vaccine against herpes zoster (shingles), grew 16%
GSK reports results under two segments namely Commercial
AER, 17% CER on increased demand and favourable pricing.
Operations and Total R&D. See Note 6, 'Turnover and segment
Growth was driven by public funding expansion and strong
information' to the consolidated financial statements for more
private uptake in International and Europe. These regions
details.
represented 45% of global turnover, compared to a third in
The Commercial Operations segment has three product groups 2022, with Shingrix launched in 39 markets outside of the US,
of Vaccines, Specialty Medicines, and General Medicines. most of which have cumulative immunisation rates below 4%.
International sales were driven by launch uptake across several
–Vaccines products, which includes sales of Shingrix and markets, strong momentum and channel inventory build in
Arexvy China due to transition between distributors, and a new public
programme in Australia. Sales in Europe included deliveries for
–Specialty Medicines products which includes GSK’s marketed
the UK National Immunisation Programme which began
products for HIV, oncology, respiratory/immunology and
offering Shingrix vaccination in September 2023. In the US,
other specialty medicines (including Nucala)
retail demand grew 7% while overall sales declined 4% versus a
–General Medicines products, which include products challenging comparator period in which there was a higher
previously reported as Established Pharmaceuticals and sales non-retail purchasing. The US cumulative immunisation
of Trelegy Ellipta and Anoro Ellipta (previously reported within penetration at the end of Q3 2023 reached 35% of the more
the Respiratory category under Specialty products). These than 120 million US adults(1) who are currently recommended to
products are typically accessed by patients through primary receive Shingrix, up 7 percentage points since the same time
care settings last year.
(1) United States Census Bureau, International Database, Year 2023
86Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Meningitis
Specialty Medicines
2023 2022 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER%
Turnover (£bn)
Meningitis 1,260 1,116 13 14
£10.2bn AER decline CER decline
Double-digit Meningitis vaccine sales growth was largely -9% -8%
delivered by Bexsero, a vaccine against meningitis B, primarily
driven by inclusion in National Immunisation Programmes in 34% of Group Turnover
Europe. Menveo, a vaccine against meningitis ACWY, grew due
to the favourable impact of a US CDC (Center for Disease
Control) stockpile borrow in Q3 2022 and replenishment in Q4 2021 8.3
2023. Meningitis growth benefitted from the favourable impact
2022 11.3
of CDC stockpile movements by 6 percentage points.
RSV 2023 10.2
2023 2022 Growth Growth
Specialty Medicines turnover
£m £m £% CER%
RSV (Arexvy) 1,238 – – – Specialty turnover excluding COVID-19 solutions
£10.2bn
Arexvy, the world’s first approved respiratory syncytial virus
AER growth 14% CER growth 15%
(RSV) vaccine for older adults, achieved more than £1.2 billion in
sales driven by strong uptake and leading market share, Pandemic turnover
delivering an outstanding launch. Almost all sales were in the £0.04bn
US where Arexvy is available in all major retail pharmacies with
AER decline -98% CER decline -98%
competitive contracting in place. Retailers administered more
than 90% of doses, and Arexvy achieved more than two-thirds Specialty Medicines growth (excluding COVID-19 solutions) of
of the share of retail vaccinations. Approximately 6 million of 14% AER, 15% CER reflected continued growth momentum on
the 83 million US adults(1) aged 60 and older at risk have been the HIV portfolio, and growth acceleration in both Oncology
vaccinated with Arexvy. and Respiratory/Immunology and Other. COVID-19 solutions
negatively impacted growth by 23 percentage points.
Influenza
HIV
2023 2022 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER% 2023 2022 Growth Growth
Influenza 504 714 (29) (29) £m £m £% CER%
HIV 6,444 5,749 12 13
Fluarix/FluLaval sales declined in 2023 in line with expectations
The growth of HIV was primarily driven by a 2 percentage point
driven by competitive pressure and lower market demand
increase in market share within a broadly flat global treatment
primarily in the US.
market, attributable to patient demand for the Oral 2DR
Established Vaccines (Dovato, Juluca) and Long-Acting medicines (Cabenuva,
Apretude). Growth was driven by patient demand of ten
2023 2022 Growth Growth percentage points, with the remainder from favourable pricing
£m £m £% CER% dynamics and tender growth. Dovato continues to be the
Established Vaccines 3,266 3,085 6 7 highest selling product in the HIV portfolio.
Established Vaccines growth was driven by Rotarix favourable Oral 2DR and Long Acting
US CDC stockpile movements, MMR/V vaccines increased 2023 2022 Growth Growth
supply in International, and Hepatitis vaccine performance £m £m £% CER%
related to the travel market recovery. Established Vaccines Oral 2DR and Long Acting 3,337 2,392 40 40
growth excluding the impact of CDC stockpile movements was
Oral 2DR (Dovato, Juluca) and Long-Acting medicine
4%.
(Cabenuva, Apretude) sales growth continues and by the end of
the year represented 55% of the total HIV portfolio compared
to 46% for Q4 2022, driven by market share growth of 4
(1) United States Census Bureau, International Database, Year 2023
percentage points versus Q4 2022.
87Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Respiratory/Immunology and other General Medicines
2023 2022 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER%
Turnover (£bn)
Respiratory/Immunology
and Other 3,025 2,609 16 18 AER growth CER growth
£10.2bn
This therapy area includes sales of Nucala and Benlysta, and 1% 5%
Jesduvroq in the US and Duvroq in Japan for patients with
anaemia due to chronic kidney disease. There was consistent 34% of Group turnover
and sustained double-digit growth in both Benlysta and
Nucala.
2021 9.7
Nucala
2023 2022 Growth Growth 2022 10.1
£m £m £% CER%
2023 10.2
Nucala 1,655 1,423 16 18
Nucala, is an IL-5 antagonist monoclonal antibody treatment
for severe asthma, with additional indications including chronic Growth was driven by both Respiratory and Other General
rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps, eosinophilic granulomatosis with Medicines, with ongoing strong demand for Trelegy in all
polyangiitis (EGPA) and hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES). regions, Anoro in Europe and International, and a continued
Continued strong growth in all regions reflected high patient post pandemic recovery of the antibiotic market in Europe and
demand in severe eosinophilic asthma, and additionally from International regions.
increasing sales and growth contributions from the new
Respiratory
indications.
2023 2022 Growth Growth
Benlysta
£m £m £% CER%
2023 2022 Growth Growth Respiratory 6,825 6,548 4 6
£m £m £% CER%
Performance reflected growth of Trelegy and the single inhaled
Benlysta 1,349 1,146 18 19
triple therapy class across all regions, and of Anoro in Europe
Benlysta, a monoclonal antibody treatment for Lupus, continues and International.
to show consistent growth representing strong demand in US
Trelegy
and Europe, with bio penetration and volume uptake in certain
International markets, particularly in Japan and China. 2023 2022 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER%
Oncology
Trelegy 2,202 1,729 27 29
2023 2022 Growth Growth
Trelegy is the most prescribed single inhaler triple therapy (SITT)
£m £m £% CER%
treatment worldwide for COPD and asthma. Strong growth was
Oncology 731 602 21 23
delivered across all regions, reflecting increased patient
Oncology demonstrated strong growth driven by Jemperli and demand, growth of the SITT market and penetration of the
Zejula performance, and uptake of Ojjaara post US launch in class. Growth momentum continues, supported by the outputs
Q3 2023, partially offset by the impact of Blenrep withdrawal of recently updated primary care guidelines from the Global
from the US market in November 2022. Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease.
Zejula Seretide/Advair
2023 2022 Growth Growth 2023 2022 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER% £m £m £% CER%
Zejula 523 463 13 15 Seretide/Advair 1,139 1,159 (2) 1
Zejula, a PARP inhibitor treatment for ovarian cancer, grew 15% Seretide/Advair is an ICS/LABA treatment for asthma and
with strong growth from all regions, with US growth in the first COPD. Seretide/Advair sales growth increased 1% primarily
line indication more than offsetting the reduction in use in reflecting favourable US pricing. However this was offset by
second line following the update to US prescribing information generic erosion impacts in Europe and certain International
agreed with the FDA in Q4 2022. markets. In the US, growth was impacted by unfavourable RAR
adjustments and the impact of US of channel inventory
reduction ahead of 2024 price changes.
Other general medicines
2023 2022 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER%
Other general medicines 3,395 3,570 (5) 2
Decline of 5% at AER reflects adverse currency impacts. Low
single digit growth of 2% reflected ongoing post pandemic
demand for anti-infectives in Europe and International, and
certain third party manufacturing arrangements. Overall growth
in this product group continues to be impacted by ongoing
generic competition.
88Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Turnover by regions International
US 2023 2022 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER%
2023 2022 Growth Growth
Total 7,944 8,434 (6) 1
£m £m £% CER%
Excluding COVID 7,893 7,402 7 15
Total 15,820 14,542 9 9
Excluding COVID 15,810 13,714 15 16 COVID-19 solutions impacted growth by 14 percentage points.
Excluding the impact of COVID-19 solutions, International
continued to grow by 7% AER, 15% CER, with strong growth
Sales growth was adversely impacted by 7 percentage points
across all product groups.
due to decreased sales of Xevudy.
Vaccines double digit growth was driven by Shingrix launch
Vaccines grew strongly driven by Arexvy launch uptake and
uptake across several markets, strong momentum and channel
leading market share, partly offset by competition and lower
inventory build in China, and a new public programme in
market demand for Influenza vaccines. Growth benefitted from
Australia. Established and Meningitis vaccines also contributed
favourable US CDC stockpile movements by 4 percentage
to the growth.
points.
Specialty Medicines grew in HIV, Nucala, Benlysta and Zejula.
Specialty Medicines grew driven by a strong HIV performance,
Benlysta and Nucala continued growth, and strong Oncology General Medicines growth was driven by Trelegy and growth
growth despite partial offset from the impact of the withdrawal across Established Respiratory. Other General Medicines
of Blenrep in November 2022. growth was driven by Augmentin on strong post pandemic
antibiotic demand.
General Medicines growth was largely driven by Trelegy from
increased patient demand and growth of the SITT market,
partially offset by Established Respiratory and Other General
Medicines.
Europe
2023 2022 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER%
Total 6,564 6,348 3 2
Excluding COVID 6,431 5,835 10 8
COVID-19 solutions impacted growth by 6 percentage points.
Excluding the impact of COVID-19 solutions, Europe delivered
strong growth of 10% AER, 8% CER.
Vaccines growth reflected Shingrix national immunisation
programme initiation in the UK and launch uptake across
several markets, together with Bexsero national immunisation
campaigns in France and Spain, and ongoing travel vaccine
recovery.
Specialty Medicines double digit growth was driven by growth
in HIV, Oncology, Benlysta and Nucala including the impact of
new indication launches.
General Medicines low single digit growth was maintained.
89Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Cost of sales In the late stage, increased investment in Vaccines was driven
by continued acceleration and progression of the pipeline
2023 2022 Growth Growth
including RSV, pneumococcal, mRNA and therapeutic HSV
£m £m £% CER%
vaccines.
Total cost of sales (8,565) (9,554) (10) (10)
% of sales 28.2% 32.6% (4.3) (4.6) Respiratory/Immunology investment continued in
Adjusted cost of sales (7,716) (8,741) (12) (11) depemokimab in the Phase III programmes in asthma and
nasal polyps together with camlipixant a new asset for
% of sales 25.4% 29.8% (4.4) (4.6)
refractory chronic cough, Nucala in COPD, paediatric Benlysta
and CCL 17 in osteo arthritic pain. This was offset by decreased
Total and Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of sales
expense in the completion of the clinical programme for
decreased primarily reflecting lower sales of lower margin
otilimab.
Xevudy compared to 2022. Excluding Xevudy, the year
benefitted from an increasing margin contribution from Infectious Diseases investment in bepirovirsen for treatment of
Vaccines sales, particularly the launch of Arexvy in Q3 2023 in chronic hepatitis B increased to support both monotherapy and
the US and Shingrix outside the US. In addition, Specialty combination programmes. Investment in key assets in oncology
Medicines, particularly HIV, contributed to the improved margin, continued such as Jemperli and Ojjaara but were offset by
as well as continued operational efficiencies. This was partly reduction in the terminated Cell and Gene Therapy programme.
offset by adverse inventory provision adjustments in the year as
well as inflationary impact on input costs. In the early-stages, investment increased in IL18 for atopic
dermatitis, and in the HIV portfolio, focused on next generation
Selling, general and administration long-acting treatments and preventative medicines.
2023 2022 Growth Growth Total R&D included higher impairment charges compared with
£m £m £% CER% 2022.
Total selling, general and
administration (9,385) (8,372) 12 14 Royalty income
% of sales 30.9% 28.6% 2.4 2.3 2023 2022 Growth Growth
Adjusted selling, general £m £m £% CER%
and administration (9,029) (8,128) 11 13 Total royalty income 953 758 26 26
% of sales 29.8% 27.7% 2.1 1.9 Adjusted royalty income 953 758 26 26
Growth in Total and Adjusted SG&A in 2023 primarily reflected Growth in Total and Adjusted royalty income primarily related
increased investment for growth in Vaccines, including disease to Gardasil royalties, which were £472 million in 2023, as well as
awareness, launch and global market expansion for Arexvy, and Kesimpta and Biktarvy royalties. The overwhelming majority of
investment behind global market expansion and disease the income from Gardasil royalties ceased at the end of 2023.
awareness for Shingrix. In Specialty Medicines, increased
Other operating income/(expense)
investment was targeted behind long-acting injectables in HIV
and the launch of Ojjaara for myelofibrosis in Oncology. This 2023 2022 Growth Growth
was partly offset by the continuing benefit of restructuring and £m £m £% CER%
tight control of ongoing costs. 2023 also reflected the Zejula Other operating income/
royalty dispute in Q1 2023. Total SG&A also included an (expenses) (363) (235) (54) (54)
increase in significant legal costs (see details on page 96).
Other operating expenses reflected a charge of £546 million
Research and development
(2022: £1,726 million) arising from the remeasurement of
2023 2022 Growth Growth contingent consideration liabilities and the liabilities for the
£m £m £% CER% Pfizer put option, and a fair value loss of £17 million (2022: £229
Total research and million gain) on the retained stake in Haleon plc, partly offset by
development (6,223) (5,488) 13 14 £200 million (2022: £306 million) of other net income primarily
% of sales 20.5% 18.7% 1.8 1.5 related to equity investments and milestone income (including
Adjusted research and £49 million dividends received from the retained investment in
development (5,750) (5,062) 14 14 Haleon plc). In Q1 2022 upfront income of £0.9 billion was
% of sales 19.0% 17.3% 1.7 1.4 received from the settlement with Gilead Sciences Inc.
R&D operating expense growth in 2023 was driven by
investment across the portfolio.
90Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Operating profit Share of after tax profits of associates and joint
2023 2022 Growth Growth ventures
£m £m £% CER%
The share of after tax loss of associates and joint ventures was
Total operating profit 6,745 6,433 5 10
£5 million (2022: £2 million share of loss).
% of sales 22.2% 21.9% 0.3 1.0
Adjusted operating profit 8,786 8,151 8 12 Profit on disposal of interest in associates
% of sales 29.0% 27.8% 1.2 1.8 In 2023, the Group also reported a profit on disposal of interests
in associates and joint ventures of £1 million.
Total operating profit margin was higher in 2023 due to
profitable growth across the portfolio as well as favourable Profit before tax
movements in contingent consideration liabilities, partly offset
Taking account of net finance costs, the share of profits or
by an unfavourable comparison due to the £0.9 billion upfront
losses of associates and profit or loss on disposal of interest in
income received from the settlement with Gilead Sciences Inc.
associates, profit before taxation was £6,064 million compared
in Q1 2022.
with £5,628 million in 2022.
Adjusted operating profit benefitted from strong sales,
Taxation
favourable product mix and increased royalty income partly
offset by increased investment behind product launches and in 2023 2022
£m £m
R&D. It also included increased legal charges primarily relating
to the Zejula royalty dispute. UK current year charge 207 200
Rest of world current year charge 1,371 1,351
In 2023 the adverse impact of lower sales of COVID-19 solutions
Charge/(credit) in respect of prior periods 43 (60)
was 5 percentage points of Total operating profit growth at
AER (6 percentage points at CER), with an impact in Total Total current taxation 1,621 1,491
operating profit margin of 0.5 percentage points. Total deferred taxation (865) (784)
Taxation on total profits 756 707
In 2023 the adverse impact of lower sales of COVID-19 solutions
was 4 percentage points of Adjusted operating profit growth,
The charge of £756 million represented an effective tax rate on
with an impact in Adjusted operating profit margin of 0.4
Total results of 12.5% (2022: 12.6%) and reflected the different
percentage points.
tax effects of the various Adjusting items. Tax on Adjusted profit
Adjusted operating profit by business amounted to £1,257 million and represented an effective
Adjusted tax rate of 15.5% (2022: 15.5%). Issues related to
2023 2022 Growth Growth
taxation are described in Note 14, 'Taxation' to the financial
£m £m £% CER%
statements. The Group continues to believe it has made
Commercial operations 14,656 13,590 8 10
adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from periods
% of sales 48.3% 46.3% 2.0 2.1
which are open and not yet agreed by tax authorities. The
R&D (5,607) (5,060) 11 11 ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of agreements
Commercial Operations Adjusted operating profit benefitted with relevant tax authorities.
from strong sales and favourable product mix (with minimal
Xevudy sales) and increased royalty income, partly offset by Non-controlling interests (NCI)
increased investment in growth and launch assets as well as an
2023 2022 Growth Growth
increase in legal provisions in 2023. £m £m £% CER%
The R&D segment operating expenses growth was driven by Total continuing 380 460 (17) (17)
progression of the late stage in Vaccines, Respiratory/ Adjusted 572 595 (4) (4)
Immunology and Infectious Diseases. This included
pneumococcal and mRNA programmes together with the The decrease in Total profit from continuing operations
newly acquired camlipixant and ongoing investment in key allocated to NCIs was primarily driven by lower ViiV Healthcare
programmes such as depemokimab and bepirovirsen. profits with an allocation of £374 million (2022: £416 million), as
well as lower net profits in some of the Group's other entities.
Net finance costs
The decrease in Adjusted profit from continuing operations
2023 2022 Growth Growth allocated to NCIs reflected lower net profits in some of the
£m £m £% CER%
Group's other entities with NCIs, partly offset by higher profits in
Total net finance cost 677 803 (16) (15)
ViiV Healthcare with an allocation of £566 million (2022: £551
Adjusted finance cost 669 791 (15) (15) million).
Total net finance costs were £677 million compared with £803
million in 2022. Adjusted net finance costs were £669 million
compared with £791 million in 2022. The decrease was mainly
driven by the net savings from maturing bonds including the
Sterling Notes repurchase in Q4 2022 and higher interest
income on cash, partly offset by higher interest on short-term
financing.
91Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Earnings per share from continuing operations Dividends
2023 2022 Growth Growth
The Board has declared four interim dividends resulting in a
£m £p £% CER% total dividend for the year of 58.00p per share. The 2022
Total continuing earnings dividend per share was 61.25p retrospectively adjusted for the
per share 121.6p 110.8p 10 16 share consolidation. The GSK group dividend in 2022 was
Adjusted earnings per share 155.1p 139.7p 11 16 55.00p per share, this is GSK related only and excludes the
dividend related to Consumer Healthcare in H1 2022. Please
In 2023, the increase in Total continuing EPS primarily reflected refer to Note 16, 'Dividends' to the financial statements.
lower charges related to the remeasurement of contingent
consideration liabilities, partly offset by a fair value loss on the
Dividend policy
retained stake in Haleon plc compared to a fair value gain in
the same period last year. In addition, there is an unfavourable Dividends remain an essential component of total shareholder
comparison due to upfront income received from the settlement return and GSK recognises the importance of dividends to
with Gilead Sciences Inc. in Q1 2022. shareholders. On 23 June 2021, at the GSK Investor Update,
GSK set out that from 2022 a progressive dividend policy will be
Adjusted EPS reflected the growth in Adjusted Operating profit
implemented guided by a 40 to 60 percent pay-out ratio
as well as lower finance costs. Growth also reflected a
through the investment cycle. Consistent with this, and
favourable benefit from lower non-controlling interests.
reflecting strong business performance during the year, GSK
Lower sales from lower margin COVID-19 solutions reduced declared an increased dividend of 16.00p for Q4 2023 and
Adjusted EPS by six percentage points. 58.00p per share for full year 2023. The expected dividend for
2024 is 60.00p. In setting its dividend policy, GSK considers the
Currency impact on results capital allocation priorities of the Group and its investment
2023 2022 Growth Growth
strategy for growth alongside the sustainability of the dividend.
£m/£p £m/£p £% CER%
Turnover 30,328 29,324 3 5
Total continuing earnings
per share 121.6p 110.8p 10 16
Adjusted earnings per share 155.1p 139.7p 11 16
The adverse currency impact primarily reflected weakening of
emerging market currencies and the Yen against Sterling and
strengthening of Sterling against the US Dollar, partly offset by
weakening of Sterling against the Euro. Exchange gains or
losses on the settlement of intercompany transactions had a
minimal impact on Adjusted EPS.
92Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Adjusting items
Adjusted results reconciliation Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
31 December 2023 Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items results
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 30,328 30,328
Cost of sales (8,565) 647 164 13 25 (7,716)
Gross profit 21,763 647 164 13 25 22,612
Selling, general and administration (9,385) 216 13 127 (9,029)
Research and development (6,223) 72 398 2 1 (5,750)
Royalty income 953 953
Other operating (expense)/income (363) 546 (183) –
Operating profit 6,745 719 398 382 572 (30) 8,786
Net finance costs (677) 1 7 (669)
Share of after-tax losses of associates and
joint ventures (5) (5)
Profit/(loss) on disposal of interest in associates 1 (1) –
Profit before taxation 6,064 719 398 383 572 (24) 8,112
Taxation (756) (154) (94) (83) (100) (70) (1,257)
Tax rate 12.5% 15.5%
Profit after taxation from continuing operations 5,308 565 304 300 472 (94) 6,855
Profit attributable to non-controlling
interests from continuing operations 380 192 572
Profit attributable to shareholders from
continuing operations 4,928 565 304 300 280 (94) 6,283
5,308 565 304 300 472 (94) 6,855
Earnings per share from continuing operations 121.6p 13.9p 7.5p 7.4p 6.9p (2.2) p 155.1p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,052 4,052
93Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Adjusted results reconciliation Divestments,
Profit from Intangible Intangible significant
31 December 2022 Total discontinued asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Adjusted
results operations amortisation impairment restructuring related other items results
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 29,324 29,324
Cost of sales (9,554) 648 102 45 18 (8,741)
Gross profit 19,770 648 102 45 18 20,583
Selling, general and administration (8,372) 180 13 51 (8,128)
Research and development (5,488) 91 296 39 (5,062)
Royalty income 758 758
Other operating (expense)/income (235) 1,692 (1,457)
Operating profit 6,433 739 296 321 1,750 (1,388) 8,151
Net finance costs (803) 2 10 (791)
Share of after-tax profits of associates
and joint ventures (2) (2)
Profit before taxation 5,628 739 296 323 1,750 (1,378) 7,358
Taxation (707) (150) (64) (87) (242) 112 (1,138)
Tax rate 12.6% 15.5%
Profit after taxation from continuing operations 4,921 589 232 236 1,508 (1,266) 6,220
Profit after taxation from discontinued
operations and other gains/(losses)
from the demerger 3,049 (3,049)
Remeasurement of discontinued operations
distributed to shareholders on demerger 7,651 (7,651)
Profit after taxation from discontinued
operations 10,700 (10,700)
Total profit after taxation for the year 15,621 (10,700) 589 232 236 1,508 (1,266) 6,220
Profit attributable to non-controlling
interests from continuing operations 460 135 595
Profit attributable to shareholders
from continuing operations 4,461 589 232 236 1,373 (1,266) 5,625
Profit attributable to non-controlling
interest from discontinued operations 205 (205)
Profit attributable to shareholders from
discontinued operations 10,495 (10,495)
15,621 (10,700) 589 232 236 1,508 (1,266) 6,220
Total profit attributable to non-controlling
interests 665 (205) 135 595
Total profit attributable to shareholders 14,956 (10,495) 589 232 236 1,373 (1,266) 5,625
15,621 (10,700) 589 232 236 1,508 (1,266) 6,220
Earnings per share from continuing operations 110.8p 14.6p 5.8p 5.9p 34.1p (31.5) p 139.7p
Earnings per share from discontinued
operations 260.6p (260.6) p
Total earnings per share 371.4p (260.6) p 14.6p 5.8p 5.9p 34.1p (31.5) p 139.7p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,026 4,026
94Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Adjusted results reconciliation Divestments,
Profit from Intangible Intangible significant
31 December 2021 Total discontinued asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Adjusted
results operations amortisation impairment restructuring related other items results
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 24,696 24,696
Cost of sales (8,163) 660 102 28 27 (7,346)
Gross profit 16,533 660 102 28 27 17,350
Selling, general and administration (7,070) 277 9 35 (6,749)
Research and development (5,019) 101 347 45 1 (4,525)
Royalty income 417 417
Other operating (expense)/income (504) 1,106 (602)
Operating profit 4,357 761 347 424 1,143 (539) 6,493
Net finance costs (755) 2 1 (752)
Loss on disposal of interest in associates (36) 36
Share of after-tax profits of associates
and joint ventures 33 33
Profit before taxation 3,599 761 347 426 1,143 (502) 5,774
Taxation (83) (153) (81) (79) (179) (343) (918)
Tax rate 2.3 % 15.9 %
Profit after taxation from continuing operations 3,516 608 266 347 964 (845) 4,856
Profit after taxation from discontinued
operations and other gains/(losses)
from the demerger 1,580 (1,580)
Profit after taxation from discontinued
operations 1,580 (1,580)
Total profit after taxation for the year 5,096 (1,580) 608 266 347 964 (845) 4,856
Profit attributable to non-controlling
interests from continuing operations 200 241 441
Profit attributable to shareholders from
continuing operations 3,316 608 266 347 723 (845) 4,415
Profit attributable to non-controlling
interest from discontinued operations 511 (511)
Profit attributable to shareholders from
discontinued operations 1,069 (1,069)
5,096 (1,580) 608 266 347 964 (845) 4,856
Total profit attributable to non-controlling
interests 711 (511) 241 441
Total profit attributable to shareholders 4,385 (1,069) 608 266 347 723 (845) 4,415
5,096 (1,580) 608 266 347 964 (845) 4,856
Earnings per share from continuing operations 82.9p 15.2p 6.6p 8.7p 18.1p (21.2) p 110.3p
Earnings per share from discontinued
operations 26.7p (26.7) p
Total earnings per share 109.6p (26.7) p 15.2p 6.6p 8.7p 18.1p (21.2) p 110.3p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,003 4,003
95Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Intangible asset amortisation Transaction-related adjustments
See page 210 for description and information on Intangible Transaction-related adjustments from continuing operations
asset amortisation. resulted in a net charge of £572 million (2022: £1,750 million),
the majority of which related to charges/(credits) for the
Intangible asset impairment
remeasurement of contingent consideration liabilities, the
See page 210 for description and information on Intangible liabilities for the Pfizer put option, and Pfizer and Shionogi
asset impairment. No individual intangible asset accounted for preferential dividends in ViiV Healthcare.
a material impairment.
2023 2022
Major restructuring and integration Charge/(credit) £m £m
Within the Pharmaceuticals sector, the highly regulated Contingent consideration on former
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare Joint Venture
manufacturing operations and supply chains and long life cycle
(including Shionogi preferential dividends) 934 1,431
of the business mean that restructuring programmes,
particularly those that involve the rationalisation or closure of ViiV Healthcare put options and Pfizer
manufacturing or R&D sites are likely to take several years to preferential dividends (245) 85
complete. Contingent consideration on former Novartis
Vaccines business (187) 193
Major restructuring costs are those related to specific Board-
approved Major restructuring programmes and are excluded Contingent consideration on acquisition of
from Adjusted results. Major restructuring programmes, Affinivax 44 17
including integration costs following material acquisitions, are Other adjustments 26 24
those that are structural and are of a significant scale where the Total transaction-related charges 572 1,750
costs of individual or related projects exceed £25 million. Other
ordinary course smaller-scale restructuring costs are retained The £934 million charge relating to the contingent
within Total and Adjusted results. consideration for the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint
venture represented an increase in the valuation of the
Total Major restructuring charges incurred in 2023 were £382
contingent consideration due to Shionogi, driven by £534
million (2022: £321 million), analysed as follows:
million from updated future sales forecasts and exchange rates,
2023 2022 and the unwind of the discount for £400 million.
Non- Non- The £245 million credit relating to the ViiV Healthcare put
Cash cash Total Cash cash Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m option and Pfizer preferential dividends represented a reduction
in the valuation of the put option as a result of updated
Separation
exchange rates, sales forecasts and cash balances. The ViiV
preparation
restructuring Healthcare contingent consideration liability is fair valued
programme 199 117 316 177 110 287 under IFRS. An explanation of the accounting for the non-
controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 84.
Significant
acquisitions 65 1 66 20 – 20 The £187 million credit relating to the contingent consideration
Legacy programmes (1) 1 – 9 5 14 on the former Novartis Vaccines business primarily relates to
263 119 382 206 115 321 changes to future sales forecasts.
The £44 million charge relating to the contingent consideration
The Separation Preparation programme incurred cash charges
on the acquisition of Affinivax primarily relates to the unwind of
of £199 million primarily from the restructuring of some
the discount..
commercial and administrative functions as well as Global
Supply Chain. The non-cash charges of £117 million primarily Divestments, significant legal charges and other
reflected the write-down of assets in administrative and items
manufacturing locations.
Divestments, significant legal charges, and other items primarily
The benefit in the year 2023 from restructuring programmes included £200 million of net income from dividends and
was £0.2 billion, primarily relating to the Separation Preparation milestones related to investments, including £49 million of
restructuring programme. The programme is now largely dividends received from the retained investment in Haleon plc,
complete and has delivered its target of £1.1 billion of annual partly offset by £17 million fair value losses on the investment in
savings, with total costs still expected at £2.4 billion, with slightly Haleon plc. Legal charges provide for all significant legal
higher cash charges of £1.7 billion but lower non-cash charges matters, including Zantac, and are not broken out separately by
of £0.7 billion. litigation or investigation. Significant legal charges in the year
primarily reflected increased legal charges for Zantac of which
Costs of significant acquisitions relate to integration costs of
the vast majority relate to the prospective legal costs for the
Sierra Oncology Inc (Sierra) and Affinivax Inc. (Affinivax) which
defence of the litigation.
were acquired in Q3 2022 and BELLUS Health Inc. acquired in
Q2 2023.
96Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Cash generation and conversion
A summary of the consolidated cash flow statement is set out Capital expenditure and financial investment
below.
Cash payments for tangible and intangible fixed assets
2023 2022 amounted to £2,344 million (2022: £2,258 million) and disposals
£m £m realised £40 million (2022: £342 million). Cash payments to
Total net cash inflow from operating activities 6,768 7,403 acquire equity investments amounted to £123 million (2022:
Total net cash (outflow) from investing £143 million) and sales of equity investments realised £1,832
activities (1,595) (8,772) million (2022: £238 million).
Total net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing Free cash flow
activities (5,641) 823
Free cash flow is the amount of cash generated by the Group
Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts (468) (546)
after meeting our obligations for contingent consideration,
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 3,425 3,819 interest, tax and dividends paid to non-controlling interests,
Exchange adjustments (99) 152 and after capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment
Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts (468) (546) and intangible assets.
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 2,858 3,425
2023 2022
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year £m £m
comprise: Free cash inflow 3,409 3,348
Cash and cash equivalents 2,936 3,723
Total cash payments to Shionogi in relation to the ViiV
Overdrafts (78) (298)
Healthcare contingent consideration liability in the year were
2,858 3,425
£1,106 million (2022: £1,100 million), all of which was recognised
in cash flows from operating activities. These payments are
Reconciliation of net cash inflow from continuing
deductible for tax purposes.
operating activities to free cash inflow
Future cash flow
A reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating activities,
which is the closest equivalent IFRS measure to free cash flow, is Over the long term, we expect that future cash generated from
shown below. operations will be sufficient to fund our operating and debt
servicing costs, normal levels of capital expenditure, obligations
2023 2022 under existing licensing agreements, expenditure arising from
£m £m
restructuring programmes and other routine outflows including
Net cash inflow from continuing operating tax, pension contributions and dividends, subject to the
activities 6,768 6,634 ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ discussed on pages 284 to
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,314) (1,143) 294. We may from time to time have additional demands for
finance, such as for acquisitions. We have access to multiple
Purchase of intangible assets (1,030) (1,115)
sources of liquidity from short and long-term capital markets
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and and financial institutions for such needs, in addition to the cash
equipment 28 146 flow from operations.
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 12 196
Net finance costs (651) (784)
Dividends and disposal proceeds from joint
ventures and associates 12 6
Contingent consideration paid (reported in
investing activities) (11) (79)
Contribution from non-controlling interests 7 8
Distributions to non-controlling interests (412) (521)
Free cash inflow 3,409 3,348
97Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources
2023 2022 Property, plant and equipment
£m £m
Assets Our business is science-based, technology-intensive and highly
regulated by governmental authorities. We allocate significant
Non-current assets
financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of our
Property, plant and equipment 9,020 8,933
property, plant, equipment and vehicles to minimise risks of
Right of use assets 937 687
interruption to production and to ensure compliance with
Goodwill 6,811 7,046
regulatory standards. A number of our processes use hazardous
Other intangible assets 14,768 14,318 materials.
Investments in associates and joint ventures 55 74
The total cost of our property, plant and equipment at
Other investments 1,137 1,467
31 December 2023 was £19,279 million, with a net book value of
Deferred tax assets 6,049 5,658
£9,020 million. Of this, land and buildings represented £2,895
Other non-current assets 1,584 1,194
million, plant, equipment and vehicles £4,033 million and assets
Total non-current assets 40,361 39,377 in construction £2,092 million. In 2023, we invested £1,295
million in new property, plant and equipment. This was mainly
Current assets
related to a large number of projects for the renewal,
Inventories 5,498 5,146
improvement and expansion of facilities at various worldwide
Current tax recoverable 373 405
sites to support new product development and launches as well
Trade and other receivables 7,385 7,053 as to improve the efficiency of existing supply chains. Property is
Derivative financial instruments 130 190 mainly held freehold. New investment is financed from our liquid
Current equity investments 2,204 4,087 resources. At 31 December 2023, we had contractual
Liquid investments 42 67 commitments for future capital expenditure of £762 million. We
Cash and cash equivalents 2,936 3,723 believe that our property and plant facilities are adequate for
Assets held for sale 76 98 our current requirements.
Total current assets 18,644 20,769 Right of use assets
Total assets 59,005 60,146
Right of use assets amounted to £937 million at 31 December
Liabilities 2023 compared with £687 million at 31 December 2022. The
Current liabilities increase in the year reflected the impact of additions through
Short-term borrowings (2,813) (3,952) business combinations of £1 million and other additions of £499
million partly offset by depreciation of £190 million, disposals
Contingent consideration liabilities (1,053) (1,289)
and impairments amounting to £30 million.
Trade and other payables (15,844) (16,263)
Derivative financial instruments (114) (183) Goodwill
Current tax payable (500) (471)
Goodwill decreased to £6,811 million at 31 December 2023, from
Short-term provisions (744) (652)
£7,046 million primarily as a result of an exchange rate loss of
Total current liabilities (21,068) (22,810) £313 million, partially offset by an increase of £109 million from
acquisitions-related transactions.
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings (15,205) (17,035) Other intangible assets
Corporation tax payable (75) (127)
Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles acquired
Deferred tax liabilities (311) (289)
from third parties and computer software. The net book value of
Pensions and other post-employment benefits (2,340) (2,579) other intangible assets as at 31 December 2023 was £14,768
Other provisions (495) (532) million (2022: £14,318 million). The increase primarily reflected
Contingent consideration liabilities (5,609) (5,779) additions, net of disposals and write-offs of £2,476 million partly
Other non-current liabilities (1,107) (899) offset by impairment losses, net of reversals and amortisation of
Total non-current liabilities (25,142) (27,240) £1,630 million and exchange rate losses of £431 million.
Total liabilities (46,210) (50,050)
Net assets 12,795 10,096
Total equity 12,795 10,096
98Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources continued
Investments in associates and joint ventures Trade and other payables
We held investments in associates and joint ventures with a At 31 December 2023, trade and other payables were £15,844
carrying value at 31 December 2023 of £55 million (2022: million compared with £16,263 million at 31 December 2022. The
£74 million). See Note 21, 'Investments in associates and joint decrease was primarily driven by lower accruals relating to
ventures' to the financial statements, for more details. profit share collaborations partly offset by higher customer
return and rebates accruals. See Note 29, 'Trade and other
Current equity investments
payables' to the financial statements.
Current equity investments amounted to £2,204 million at
Provisions
31 December 2023 (2022: £4,087 million). Current equity
investments comprise equity investments which the Group holds We carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and
with the intention to sell and which it may sell in the short term. non-current provisions of £1,550 million at 31 December 2023
Where acquired with this intention, they are measured at fair (2022: £1,473 million). Other provisions at the year-end included
value through the profit and loss (FVTPL). They are initially £267 million (2022: £218 million) related to legal and other
recorded at fair value plus transaction costs and then disputes and £282 million (2022: £351 million) related to Major
remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value. restructuring programmes. Provision has been made for legal
Unrealised gains and losses are recognised in the income and other disputes, indemnified disposal liabilities, employee
statement. The investment of £2,204 million (2022: £4,087 related liabilities and the costs of the restructuring programme
million) represents the shares held in Haleon plc after the to the extent that at the balance sheet date a legal or
demerger. During 2023, disposals of Haleon plc shares resulted constructive obligation existed and could be reliably estimated.
in gross proceeds of £1,863 million (2022: £nil).
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
Other investments
We account for pension and other post-employment
At 31 December 2023 we held other investments with a carrying arrangements in accordance with IAS 19. The net deficits were
value of £1,137 million (2022: £1,467 million). The most significant £763 million (2022: £1,356 million) on pension arrangements
of these investments held at 31 December 2023 were in Crispr and £943 million (2022: £994 million) on unfunded post-
Therapeutics AG, Vir Biotechnology Inc. and SR One Capital employment liabilities. See Note 31, 'Pensions and other post-
Fund I-B, LP. These investments had a fair value at employment benefits' to the financial statements.
31 December 2023 of £158 million (2022: £109 million), £67
Other non-current liabilities
million (2022: £180 million) and £102 million (2022: £211 million)
respectively. The other investments included equity stakes in Other non-current liabilities amounted to £1,107 million at
companies with which we have research collaborations, and 31 December 2023 (2022: £899 million).
which provide access to biotechnology developments of
potential interest and interests in companies that arise from Contingent consideration liabilities
business divestments. Contingent consideration amounted to £6,662 million at
31 December 2023 (2022: £7,068 million), of which £5,718 million
Derivative financial instruments: assets
(2022: £5,890 million) represented the estimated present value
We held current derivative financial assets at fair value of £130 of amounts payable to Shionogi relating to ViiV Healthcare,
million (2022: £190 million). The majority of these financial £516 million (2022: £501 million) represented the estimated
instruments related to foreign exchange contracts both present value of contingent consideration payable to the former
designated and not designated as accounting hedges. shareholders of Affinivax and £424 million (2022: £673 million)
represented the estimated present value of contingent
Inventories
consideration payable to Novartis related to the Vaccines
Inventories amounted to £5,498 million (2022: £5,146 million) at acquisition.
31 December 2023.
The liability due to Shionogi was £267 million in respect of
Trade and other receivables preferential dividends. An explanation of the accounting for the
non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare is set out on page
Trade and other receivables amounted to £7,385 million (2022:
84.
£7,053 million) at 31 December 2023. The increase is mainly
driven by Arexvy sales in the US. Of the total contingent consideration payable (on a post-tax
basis) at 31 December 2023, £1,017 million (2022: £940 million) is
Deferred tax assets
expected to be paid within one year to Shionogi. The
Deferred tax assets amounted to £6,049 million (2022: £5,658 consideration payable is expected to be paid over a number of
million) at 31 December 2023. years. As a result, the total estimated liabilities are discounted to
their present values, on a post-tax basis using post-tax discount
Derivative financial instruments: liabilities rates.
We held current derivative financial liabilities at fair value of
The Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability
£114 million (2022: £183 million). This is primarily related to
is discounted at 8%, the Affinivax contingent consideration
foreign exchange contracts both designated and not
liability is discounted at 8.5%, and the Novartis Vaccines
designated as accounting hedges.
contingent consideration liability is discounted partly at 7.5%
and partly at 8.5%.
99Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources continued
Maturity profile of bond debt
£m equivalent
2000
1500
1000
500
0
2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031 2032 2033 2034 2035 2036 2037 2038 2039 2040 2041 2042 2043 2044 2045
USD bonds EUR bonds GBP bonds JPY bonds
Net debt Cash and liquid investments of £2.2 billion (2022: £3.1 billion)
were held centrally at 31 December 2023.
2023 2022
£m £m The analysis of cash and gross debt after the effects of hedging
Liquid investments 42 67 is as follows:
Cash and cash equivalents 2,936 3,723
2023 2022
Short term borrowings (2,813) (3,952) £m £m
Long term borrowings (15,205) (17,035) Liquid investments 42 67
Net debt the end of the year (15,040) (17,197) Cash and cash equivalents 2,936 3,723
Gross debt – fixed (16,898) (19,214)
At 31 December 2023, net debt was £15.0 billion, compared with – floating (1,120) (1,773)
£17.2 billion at 31 December 2022, comprising gross debt of
Net debt (15,040) (17,197)
£18.0 billion and cash and liquid investments of £3.0 billion.
Net debt decreased by £2.2 billion primarily due to £3.4 billion
Movements in net debt
free cash inflow, £1.9 billion proceeds from the disposal of
investments, including the partial sale of the retained stake in 2023 2022
Haleon plc, and net favourable exchange impacts of £0.6 £m £m
billion from the translation of non-sterling denominated debt. Total net debt at beginning of year (17,197) (19,838)
These were partly offset by dividends paid to shareholders of Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts (468) (7,597)
£2.2 billion and the net acquisition cost of BELLUS Health Inc.
Decrease in liquid investments (72) (1)
for £1.5 billion.
Net decrease/(increase) in long-term loans (79) 569
At 31 December 2023, GSK had short-term borrowings Net decrease in short-term loans 2,449 4,053
(including overdrafts and lease liabilities) repayable within
Repayment of lease liabilities 197 202
12 months of £2.8 billion and £1.6 billion repayable in the
Debt of subsidiary undertaking acquired 50 (24)
subsequent year.
Exchange adjustments 554 (1,531)
At 31 December 2023, GSK’s cash and liquid investments were
Other non-cash movements (474) (207)
held as follows:
Decrease/(increase) in net debt from 2,157 (4,536)
2023 2022 continuing operations
£m £m
Decrease/(increase) in net debt from – 7,177
Bank balances and deposits 1,942 1,324
discontinued operations
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money 155 146
Total net debt at end of year (15,040) (17,197)
market funds
Liquidity funds 839 2,253
Cash and cash equivalents 2,936 3,723
Liquid investments – government securities 42 67
2,978 3,790
100Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources continued
Total equity Contractual obligations and commitments
At 31 December 2023, total equity had increased from Financial commitments are summarised in Note 36,
£10,096 million at 31 December 2022 to £12,795 million. 'Commitments' to the financial statements.
A summary of the movements in equity is set out below: The following table sets out our contractual obligations and
commitments at 31 December 2023 as they fall due for
2023 2022
payment.
£m £m
Under
Total equity at beginning of year 10,096 21,342
Total 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,991 14,790 £m £m £m £m £m
Non-cash distribution to non-controlling Loans 16,900 2,660 2,913 3,101 8,226
interests – (2,960) Interest on loans 5,446 547 973 848 3,078
Deconsolidation of former subsidiaries – (3,045) Finance lease
Dividends to shareholders (2,247) (3,467) obligations 1,207 156 348 202 501
Ordinary shares issued 10 25 Future finance
Changes in non-controlling interests – (20) charges on leases 254 41 67 50 96
Non-cash dividends to shareholders – (15,526) Lease contracts that
have not yet
Hedging gain/loss transferred to
non-financial assets 36 9 commenced 5 1 2 2 –
Intangible assets 16,329 386 835 1,956 13,152
Share-based incentive plans 307 357
Tax on share-based incentive plans 7 (8) Property, plant &
equipment 762 587 175 – –
Contributions from non-controlling interests 7 8
Investments 153 63 73 17 –
Distributions to non-controlling interests (412) (1,409)
Purchase
Total equity at end of year 12,795 10,096
commitments 31 4 9 3 15
Total 41,087 4,445 5,395 6,179 25,068
Share purchases
At 31 December 2023, GSK held 197.1 million shares as Treasury
Commitments in respect of loans and future interest payable on
shares (2022: 217.1 million shares), at a cost of £3,447 million
loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect of
(2022: £3,798 million), which has been deducted from retained
derivatives.
earnings.
We have entered into a number of research collaborations to
No ordinary shares were repurchased in the period 1 January
develop new compounds with other pharmaceutical
2023 to 27 February 2024 and the company does not expect to
companies. The terms of these arrangements can include
make any ordinary share repurchases in the remainder of 2024.
upfront fees, equity investments, loans and commitments to
In 2023, 20 million Treasury shares were transferred to the fund specified levels of research. In addition, we will often agree
Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts. Shares are held to make further payments if future ‘milestones’ are achieved.
by the Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards
As some of these agreements relate to compounds in the early
under the Group share option and award schemes.
stages of development, the potential obligation to make
A proportion of the shares held by the Trusts are in respect of milestone payments will continue for a number of years if the
awards where the rules of the scheme require GSK to satisfy compounds move successfully through the development
exercises through market purchases rather than the issue of process. Generally, the closer the product is to marketing
new shares. The shares held by the Trusts are matched to approval, the greater the probability of success. The amounts
options and awards granted. shown above within intangible assets represent the maximum
that would be paid if all milestones were achieved.
At 31 December 2023, the ESOP Trusts held 58.8 million
There was an increase in the commitments in 2023 mainly
(2022: 59.9 million) GSK shares against the future exercise
attributable to new R&D collaborations resulting in higher
of share options and share awards and for the Executive
intangible assets commitments.
Supplemental Savings plan. The carrying value of
£288 million (2022: £353 million) has been deducted from other
reserves. The market value of these shares was £853 million
(2022: £861 million).
101Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources continued
In connection with the demerger of Consumer Healthcare, the In the normal course of business, we have provided various
31 December 2020 pension scheme valuations identified cash indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals
funding or technical provisions deficits in three GSK UK Pension in which legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen. A
Schemes. Scottish limited partnerships (“SLPs”) were established provision is made where an outflow of resources is considered
to provide a funding mechanism for each of GSK’s UK defined probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely
benefit pension schemes. The SLPs together held shares outcome of the dispute and this is included in Note 32, 'Other
representing 7.5% of the total issued share capital of Haleon provisions' to the financial statements.
plc.
We provide for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes
Each pension scheme, through its SLP interest, was entitled to when an outflow of resources is considered probable and a
receive a distribution from that SLP in an amount equal to the reliable estimate of the outflow may be made. At 31 December
net proceeds of sales of Haleon plc shares, and to receive 2023, other than for those disputes where provision has been
dividend income on Haleon plc shares, until it had received an made, it was not possible to make a reliable estimate of the
aggregate amount equal to an agreed threshold (“Proceeds potential outflow of funds that might be required to settle
Threshold”). The Proceeds Thresholds total £1,080 million (as disputes where the possibility of there being an outflow was
increased by notional interest on the remaining balance from more than remote.
time to time), and payment of this amount would fully fund the
The ultimate liability for such matters may vary significantly
cash funding or technical provisions deficits in the three
from the amounts provided and is dependent upon
schemes shown by the 31 December 2020 valuations. Once the
negotiations with the relevant tax authorities and the outcome
Proceeds Threshold has been reached, the GSK-controlled
of litigation proceedings, where relevant. This is discussed
General Partner of each SLP is entitled to sell the remaining
further in ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on pages 284 to 294
Haleon plc shares held by the SLP and distribute the proceeds
and Note 47, 'Legal proceedings' to the financial statements.
to GSK. As at 31 December 2023, total cash contributions
totalling £353 million (2022: £691 million) were made towards
the Proceeds Threshold leaving no further outstanding amount
due to the UK pension schemes. The cash contributions
included £17 million of distributions of dividends on Haleon plc
shares from the SLPs to the Schemes.
Contingent liabilities
Other contingent liabilities are set out in Note 35, 'Contingent
liabilities' to the financial statements.
The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising
performance guarantees, letters of credit and other items
arising in the normal course of business, and when they are
expected to expire.
Under
Total 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
£m £m £m £m £m
Guarantees 14 9 3 1 1
Other contingent
liabilities 18 6 – 9 3
Total 32 15 3 10 4
102Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Approach to tax
Business makes a major contribution to the public purse Tax risk in all countries in which we operate is managed through
through its tax contribution. This includes direct taxes (such as robust internal policies, processes, training and compliance
corporate income tax) and indirect taxes (such as VAT and programmes. Our Board of Directors and the Audit & Risk
customs duties) as well as other taxes (such as employment Committee are responsible for approving our tax policies and
taxes and property taxes). It is therefore important that risk management arrangements as part of our wider internal
companies explain their approach to tax. This helps inform control framework.
dialogue about tax and tax policy.
We seek to maintain open and constructive relationships with
We are supportive of efforts to ensure companies are tax authorities worldwide, meeting regularly to discuss our tax
appropriately transparent about how their tax affairs are affairs and real time business updates wherever possible.
managed. As part of that, our Tax Strategy is set out in detail
We also monitor government debate on tax policy in our key
within the Public policies section of our website.
jurisdictions so that we can understand and share an informed
We support the exchange of country-by-country reporting point of view regarding any potential future changes in tax law,
(CBCR) data between tax authorities as, validated against in support of a transparent and sustainable tax system. Where
existing information held on taxpayers, it will support their ability relevant, we provide pragmatic and constructive business input
to ensure multinational groups pay the right amount of tax in to tax policy makers either directly or through industry trade
the right places. bodies, advocating reform to support economic growth and job
creation as well as the needs of our patients and other key
As a global biopharmaceutical company, we have a substantial
stakeholders.
business and employment presence in many countries around
the world and pay a significant amount of tax. This includes In 2023, the Group corporate tax charge was £756 million
corporate income tax and other business taxes, and tax (2022: £707 million) on profits before tax of £6,064 million
associated with our employees. We also collect a significant (2022: £5,628 million) representing an effective tax rate of 12.5%
amount of tax on behalf of governments along our supply (2022: 12.6%). We made cash tax payments of £1,328 million in
chain, including from our employees. the year (2022: £1,310 million). In addition to the taxes we pay
on our profits, we pay duties, levies, transactional and
We are subject to taxation throughout our supply chain. The
employment taxes.
worldwide nature of our operations means that our cross-
border supply routes, necessary to ensure supplies of medicines The Group’s Total tax rate for 2023 of 12.5% (2022: 12.6%) was
into numerous countries, can result in conflicting claims from tax lower than the Adjusted tax rate reflecting the different tax
authorities as to the profits to be taxed in individual countries. effects of various Adjusting items.
This can lead to double taxation (with profits taxed in more
Our Adjusted tax rate for 2023 was 15.5% (2022: 15.5%). The
than one country).
rate has benefited from innovation incentives available in key
Profits are recognised in territories by reference to the activities territories in which we operate, such as the UK and Belgium
performed there and the value they generate. To ensure the Patent Box regimes. During 2023 the UK Government enacted
profits recognised in jurisdictions are aligned to the activity legislation introducing a global minimum corporate income tax
undertaken there, and in line with current OECD guidelines, we rate, to have effect from 2024 in line with the Organisation for
base our transfer pricing policy on the arm’s length principle Economic Co-operation and Development’s (OECD) Pillar Two
and support our transfer prices with economic analysis and model framework. We anticipate that the rules will restrict our
reports. ability to benefit from innovation incentives and consequentially
our effective Adjusted tax rate is forecast to increase to around
We do not engage in artificial tax arrangements – those
17% for 2024.
without business or commercial substance. We do not seek to
avoid tax by the use of ‘tax havens’ or transactions we would Further details about our corporate tax charges for the year are
not fully disclose to a tax authority. We have a zero-tolerance set out in Note 14 'Taxation' to the financial statements.
approach to tax evasion and the facilitation of tax evasion.
103Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Treasury policies
We report in Sterling and pay dividends out of Sterling cash Interest rate risk management
flows. The role of Treasury is to monitor and manage the
GSK’s objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost and
Group’s external and internal funding requirements and
to balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates
financial risks in support of our strategic objectives. GSK
over time. The policy on interest rate risk management limits the
operates on a global basis, primarily through subsidiary
net amount of floating rate debt to a specific cap, reviewed
companies, and we manage our capital to ensure that our
and agreed no less than annually by the Board.
subsidiaries are able to operate as going concerns and to
optimise returns to shareholders through an appropriate Foreign exchange risk management
balance of debt and equity. Treasury activities are governed by
Our objective is to minimise the exposure of overseas operating
policies approved annually by the Board of Directors, and most
subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local currency
recently on 11 October 2023. A Treasury Management Group
income with local currency costs where possible. Foreign
(TMG) meeting, chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, takes
currency transaction exposures arising on external and internal
place on a regular basis to review Treasury activities. Its
trade flows are selectively hedged. GSK’s internal trading
members receive management information relating to these
transactions are matched centrally and we manage inter-
activities.
company payment terms to reduce foreign currency risk. Where
Treasury operations possible, we manage the cash surpluses or borrowing
requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward
The objective of GSK’s Treasury activities is to minimise the
contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating
post-tax net cost of financial operations and reduce its volatility
currency.
in order to benefit earnings and cash flows. GSK uses a variety
of financial instruments to finance its operations and derivative In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, we
financial instruments to manage market risks from these seek to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our principal
operations. Derivatives principally comprise foreign exchange assets and cash flows. These are primarily denominated in US
forward contracts and swaps which are used to swap Dollars, Euros and Sterling.
borrowings and liquid assets into currencies required for Group
Borrowings can be swapped into other currencies as required.
purposes, as well as interest rate swaps which are used to
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies
manage exposure to financial risks from changes in interest
that match investments in overseas Group assets may be
rates.
treated as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward
Derivatives are used exclusively for hedging purposes in relation contracts in major currencies are also used to reduce exposure
to underlying business activities and not as trading or to the Group’s investment in overseas Group assets. The TMG
speculative instruments. reviews the ratio of borrowings to assets for major currencies
regularly.
Capital management
Commodity risk management
GSK’s financial strategy, implemented through the Group’s
financial architecture, supports GSK’s strategic priorities and is Our objective is to minimise income statement volatility arising
regularly reviewed by the Board. We manage the capital from fluctuations in commodity prices, where practical and cost
structure of the Group through an appropriate mix of debt and effective to do so. The TMG is authorised to approve the
equity. We continue to manage our financial policies to a credit execution of certain financial derivatives to hedge commodity
profile that particularly targets ratings of at least A2/A price exposures.
(Moody's/S&P), through the cycle.
Counterparty risk management
GSK’s long-term credit rating with Standard and Poor’s is A
We set global counterparty limits for each of our banking and
(stable outlook) and with Moody’s Investor Services (‘Moody’s’)
investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings
is A2 (stable outlook). Our short-term credit ratings are A-1 and
from Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Usage of these limits is
P-1 with Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.
actively monitored and any breach of these limits would be
Liquidity risk management reported to the Chief Financial Officer immediately.
GSK’s policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated In addition, relationship banks and their credit ratings are
funding requirements. Our cash flow forecasts and funding reviewed regularly so that, when changes in ratings occur,
requirements are monitored by the TMG on a regular basis. Our changes can be made to investment levels or to authority limits
strategy is to diversify liquidity sources using a range of facilities as appropriate. All banking counterparty limits are reviewed at
and to maintain broad access to financial markets. least annually.
Each day, we sweep cash to or from a number of global
subsidiaries to central treasury accounts for liquidity
management purposes.
104Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Critical accounting policies
The Group consolidated financial statements have been –The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered
prepared in accordance with UK-adopted international programme providing assistance to certain poor and
accounting standards in conformity with the requirements of vulnerable patients. In 1990, the Medicaid Drug Rebate
the Companies Act 2006 and the International Financial Program was established to reduce state and federal
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International expenditure on prescription drugs. In 2010, the Patient
Accounting Standard Board (IASB). Protection and Affordable Care Act became law. We
participate by providing rebates to states. Accruals for
We are required to make estimates and assumptions that
Medicaid rebates are calculated based on the specific terms
affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses
of the relevant regulations or the Patient Protection and
reported in the financial statements. Actual amounts and results
Affordable Care Act
could differ from those estimates.
–Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage
The critical accounting policies relate to the following areas: prompt payment. These are accrued for at the time of
invoicing and adjusted subsequently to reflect actual
–Turnover
experience
–Taxation (Note 14) –We record an accrual for estimated sales returns by applying
–Legal and other disputes (Notes 47) historical experience of customer returns to the amounts
invoiced, together with market-related information such as
–Contingent liabilities (Note 35)
stock levels at wholesalers, anticipated price increases and
–Pensions and other post-employment benefits (Note 31)
competitor activity
Information on the judgements and estimates made in these
areas is given in Note 3, 'Critical accounting judgements and A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for US
key sources of estimation uncertainty' to the financial Commercial Operations is as follows:
statements.
2023 2022 2021
Turnover Margin Margin Margin
£m % £m % £m %
In respect of the turnover accounting policy, our largest
Gross turnover 32,359 100 29,814 100 24,432 100
business is US Commercial Operations, and the US market has
the most complex arrangements for rebates, discounts, and
Market-driven
allowances. The following briefly describes the nature of the segments (8,874) (27) (8,275) (28) (6,875) (28)
arrangements in existence in our US Commercial Operations:
Government
–We have arrangements with certain indirect customers mandated and
whereby the customer is able to buy products from state programmes (6,385) (20) (6,218) (21) (5,134) (21)
wholesalers at reduced prices. A chargeback represents the Cash discounts (566) (2) (536) (2) (438) (2)
difference between the invoice price to the wholesaler and
Customer returns (344) (1) (255) (1) (253) (1)
the indirect customer’s contractual discounted price. Accruals
Prior year
for estimating chargebacks are calculated based on the
adjustments 591 2 780 3 855 4
terms of each agreement, historical experience and product
growth rates Other items (961) (3) (768) (2) (673) (3)
–Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and Total deductions (16,539) (51) (15,272) (51) (12,518) (51)
Group Purchasing Organisations and other direct and Net turnover 15,820 49 14,542 49 11,914 49
indirect customers. These arrangements require the customer
to achieve certain formulary status, performance targets Market-driven segments consist primarily of managed care and
relating to the value of product purchased or pre-determined Medicare plans with which we negotiate contract pricing that is
market shares relative to competitors. The accrual for honoured via rebates and chargebacks. Mandated segments
customer rebates is estimated based on the specific terms in consist primarily of Medicaid and federal government
each agreement, historical experience and product growth programmes which receive government-mandated pricing via
rates rebates and chargebacks.
105Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Group financial review continued
Critical accounting policies continued
Overall sales deduction as a percentage of sales is consistent We may become involved in significant legal proceedings, in
year over year with sales growth coming primarily from Trelegy, respect of which it is not possible to meaningfully assess
Arexvy and Specialty Products including HIV. Deductions within whether the outcome will result in a probable outflow, or to
the year were split approximately as follows: General Medicines quantify or reliably estimate the liability, if any, that could result
67%, Specialty Medicines 21% and Vaccines 12%. from ultimate resolution of the proceedings. In these cases,
appropriate disclosure about such cases would be included in
At 31 December 2023, the total accrual for discounts, rebates,
the Annual Report, but no provision would be made.
allowances and returns for US Commercial Operations
amounted to £5,951 million (2022: £5,855 million). This position could change over time and, therefore, there can
A monthly process is operated to monitor inventory levels at be no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of
wholesalers for any abnormal movements. This process uses any legal proceedings will not exceed by a material amount the
gross sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party amount of the provisions reported in the Group’s financial
data sources and information received from key wholesalers. statements.
The aim of this is to maintain inventories at a consistent level
Like many pharmaceutical companies, we are faced with
from year to year based on the pattern of consumption.
various complex product liability, anti-trust and patent litigation,
On this basis, US Commercial Operations inventory levels at as well as investigations of our operations conducted by various
wholesalers and in other distribution channels at 31 December governmental regulatory agencies. Throughout the year, the
2023 were estimated to amount to approximately four weeks of General Counsel of the Group, as head of the Group’s legal
turnover. This calculation uses third party information, the function, supported by the Senior Vice President and Head of
accuracy of which cannot be totally verified, but is believed to Global Litigation for the Group, who is responsible for all
be sufficiently reliable for this purpose. litigation and government investigations, routinely brief the
Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the
Legal and other disputes
Board of Directors on the significant litigation pending against
In respect of the accounting policy for legal and other disputes, the Group and governmental investigations of the Group.
the following briefly describes the process by which we
These meetings, as appropriate, detail the status of significant
determine the level of provision that is necessary.
litigation and government investigations and review matters
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 37, ‘Provisions, such as the number of claims notified to us, information on
contingent liabilities and contingent assets’, we provide for potential claims not yet notified, assessment of the validity of
anticipated settlement costs where an outflow of resources is claims, progress made in settling claims, recent settlement
considered probable and a reliable estimate may be made of levels and potential reimbursement by insurers.
the likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other expenses
The meetings also include an assessment of whether or not
arising from claims against the Group.
there is sufficient information available for us to be able to
make a reliable estimate of the potential outcomes of the
disputes. Often, external counsel assisting us with various
litigation matters and investigations will also assist in the
briefing of the Board and senior management. Following these
discussions, for those matters where it is possible to make a
reliable estimate of the amount of a provision, if any, that may
be required, the level of provision for legal and other disputes is
reviewed and adjusted as appropriate. These matters are
discussed further in Note 47, 'Legal proceedings' to the financial
statements.
Strategic report
The Strategic report was approved by the Board of Directors on
27 February 2024
Julie Brown
Chief Financial Officer
27 February 2024
106GSK Annual Report 2023
Corporate
governance
In this section
The Board and GSK Leadership Team 108
Chair’s governance statement 114
Corporate governance architecture 116
Ahead Together – Board oversight 119
Continuous engagement and key decisions 121
Board committee reports 128
Remuneration Committee Chair's annual statement 139
Annual report on remuneration 142
Directors’ report 161
107Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
The Board
Sir Jonathan Symonds, CBE Skills and experience
Non-Executive Chair Jon has extensive international financial, life sciences and governance experience.
Jon served as an Independent Non-Executive Director of HSBC Holdings plc from April 2014 and
Age: 64
as Chairman of the Group Audit Committee from 1 September 2014 and Deputy Group Chairman
Nationality: British
from August 2018, until his retirement from the Board in February 2020. He was previously
Appointed: 1 September 2019
Chairman of HSBC Bank plc, Chief Financial Officer of Novartis AG, Partner and Managing
N Director of Goldman Sachs, Chief Financial Officer of AstraZeneca plc, and a Partner at KPMG.
Jon is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
External appointments
Non-Executive Director, Genomics England Limited having previously served as its Chairman;
Non-Executive Chair, Energy Aspects; Member, European Round Table for Industry; Senior
Advisor to Chatham House.
Dame Emma Walmsley Skills and experience
Chief Executive Officer Before being appointed as GSK’s CEO, Emma was the CEO of GSK Consumer Healthcare, a joint
venture between GSK and Novartis, from its creation in March 2015. Emma joined GSK in 2010
Age: 54 from L’Oreal, having worked there for 17 years in a variety of roles in Paris, London, New York and
Nationality: British Shanghai. Emma was previously a Non-Executive Director of Diageo plc. Emma’s position as an
Appointed: 1 January 2017 Independent Director of Microsoft, Inc., further supplements the technology and cyber security
Chief Executive Officer from experience she brings to the Board.
1 April 2017
Emma holds an MA in Classics and Modern Languages from Oxford University.
External appointments
Independent Director, Microsoft, Inc.
Julie Brown Skills and experience
Chief Financial Officer Julie has an extensive financial and life sciences background, having been the Group CFO of
Smith & Nephew from 2013 to 2017 and serving as a Non-Executive Director and Audit Chair of
Age: 61 Roche Holding AG from 2016 to 2022. Before this, Julie was Interim Group CFO of AstraZeneca
Nationality: British plc, having worked in a wide range of commercial, strategic and financial positions across three
Appointed: 3 April 2023 continents over a 25 year period. Julie was also Chief Operating Officer and CFO and Executive
Chief Financial Officer from 1 May 2023 Director of Burberry Group plc from 2017 to 2023, where her responsibilities included Finance,
Transformation, Information Technology and oversight of cyber security.
Julie is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and the Institute of Tax.
External appointments
Co-Chair, CFO Leadership Network, Accounting for Sustainability (part of the King Charles III
Charitable Fund Group of Companies); Patron, Oxford University Women in Business; Non-
Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee, Diageo plc (effective 5 August 2024).
Elizabeth (Liz) McKee Anderson Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Liz brings significant experience in commercial biopharmaceuticals and is a seasoned biotech
board member. Her significant experience in commercial biopharmaceuticals, both operationally
Age: 66 and at Board level, as well as her deep understanding of the biotechnology sector and
Nationality: American application of technology, are invaluable to GSK as a pure biopharma company.
Appointed: 1 September 2022
Before her current roles, Liz served as Worldwide Vice President and commercial leader in
infectious diseases and vaccines and also for immunology and oncology at Janssen
A R
Pharmaceuticals, and as Vice President and General Manager at Wyeth Vaccines. Liz was also
previously a Board member of Huntsworth Plc and a Board Member and Chair of the Science,
Technology and Investment Committee of Bavarian Nordic A/S. Liz has a degree in Engineering
and Technical Management and an MBA in Finance.
External appointments
Board Member, BioMarin Pharmaceutical, Inc; Board Member, Revolution Medicines, Inc; Board
Member, Insmed, Inc; Trustee, The Wistar Institute; Director, Aro Biotherapeutics Company, a
private company.
Key Committee Chair C Corporate Responsibility S Science N Nominations & Corporate Governance A Audit & Risk R Remuneration
108Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
The Board continued
Charles Bancroft Skills and experience
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Charlie has a wealth of financial and management experience in global biopharma.
Charlie retired from a successful career at Bristol Myers Squibb (BMS) in March 2020 where he
Age: 64
held a number of leadership roles in commercial, strategy and finance. Beginning his career at
Nationality: American
BMS in 1984, he held positions of increasing responsibility within the finance organisation and
Appointed: 1 May 2020
had commercial operational responsibility for Latin America, Middle East, Africa, Canada, Japan
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
and several Pacific Rim countries. He was appointed Chief Financial Officer in 2010, Chief
from 18 July 2022
Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Business Operations in 2016 and Executive
Vice President and Head of Integration and Strategy & Business Development in 2019. As Chief
A N R
Financial Officer, Charlie had line management responsibility for Information Technology,
including cyber security. Charlie successfully steered BMS through a period of strategic
transformation, including its $74 billion acquisition of Celgene. Charlie also served as a member
of the Board of Colgate-Palmolive Company from 2017 until March 2020.
External appointments
Board Member, Kodiak Sciences Inc; Board Member, BioVector Inc; Advisory Board Member,
Drexel University’s LeBow College of Business.
The Board determined that Charlie has recent and relevant financial experience and agreed that
he has the appropriate qualifications and background to be an audit committee financial expert.
Dr Hal Barron Skills and experience
Non-Executive Director Hal has had a distinguished career in biosciences, with a strong track record of research and
development (R&D). He joined the Board of GSK in 2018 as Chief Scientific Officer and President,
Age: 61 R&D, where he brought a new approach to R&D which focused on science related to the immune
Nationality: American system, the use of human genetics and advanced technologies to help identify the next
Appointed: 1 January 2018 generation of transformational medicines. In August 2022, he transitioned to a Non-Independent
Chief Scientific Officer and Non-Executive Director, with additional responsibilities to support R&D.
President, R&D from 1 April 2018
Before joining GSK, Hal was President, R&D at Calico LLC (California Life Company), an
Transitioned to the role of Non-Executive
Alphabet-funded company that uses advanced technologies to increase understanding of
Director on 1 August 2022
lifespan biology. Hal was previously Executive Vice President, Head of Global Product
Development, and Chief Medical Officer of Roche, responsible for all the products in the
S combined portfolio of Roche and Genentech. At Genentech, he was Senior Vice President of
Development and Chief Medical Officer. Hal was a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the
Science & Technology Committee at Juno Therapeutics, Inc until March 2018, when it was
acquired by Celgene Corporation. He previously served as a Non-Executive Board Director of
GRAIL, Inc and an Advisory Board Member of Verily Life Sciences LLC.
External appointments
CEO and Board Co-Chair, Altos Labs Inc; Associate Adjunct Professor, Epidemiology &
Biostatistics, University of California, San Francisco.
Dr Anne Beal Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Anne brings extensive healthcare experience to the Board as a physician and entrepreneur, and
combines this with a passion for patient advocacy. She is a recognised health policy expert in the
Age: 61 development of global and national programmes for improving healthcare access for all patient
Nationality: American groups and for ensuring the voice of patients is reflected in research programmes.
Appointed: 6 May 2021
Before her current roles, Anne spent six years at Harvard Medical School and Massachusetts
General Hospital, where she was an instructor in paediatrics. She has also held leadership roles at
C N R the Commonwealth Fund and the Aetna Foundation. Anne was previously Deputy Executive
Director and Chief Engagement Officer for The Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute in
the US and Chief Patient Officer and Global Head of Patient Solutions at Sanofi.
External appointments
Founder and CEO, AbsoluteJOI Skincare; Board Member, AcademyHealth; Board Member,
Prolacta Bioscience.
Key Committee Chair C Corporate Responsibility S Science N Nominations & Corporate Governance A Audit & Risk R Remuneration
109Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
The Board continued
Wendy Becker Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Wendy is a highly experienced Non-Executive Director and has held significant leadership
positions in a wide range of global businesses in public, private and non-profit sectors. She
Age: 58 possesses a wealth of strategic and consumer marketing expertise in particular across the
Nationality: American technology and life sciences sectors.
Appointed: 1 October 2023
Wendy has strong executive management experience, having been Chief Executive Officer at
Jack Wills Limited, Group Chief Marketing Officer at Vodafone Group plc and Partner at
A R
McKinsey & Company. Wendy’s interest in science, healthcare and medical research dates to her
time at McKinsey, where she worked with a range of healthcare clients in the US and Europe. This
was furthered during the years that she served on the Board of Cancer Research UK. More
recently, Wendy spent time as a Non-Executive Director of NHS England and as Chair of the
British Heart Foundation.
Wendy has held several Non-Executive Director roles, amongst others, as Chair of the
Remuneration Committees of Great Portland Estates plc and Ocado Group plc and as a member
of the Remuneration and Audit Committees of Whitbread plc.
Through her current and prior roles in technology companies, Wendy adds to the Board’s
experience in cyber security.
External appointments
Chair of Logitech International S.A.; Board member and Chair of the Compensation Committee,
Sony Group Corporation; Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration
Committee, Oxford Nanopore Technologies plc; Member of the governing bodies of the
University of Oxford.
Dr Harry (Hal) C Dietz Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Hal brings extensive experience in the field of human genetics which is central to GSK’s approach
and Scientific & Medical Expert to R&D. He is a former President of the American Society of Human Genetics and is recognised
as the world’s leading authority on the genetic disorder known as Marfan Syndrome. He also
Age: 65 brings experience in developing novel therapies, particularly in relation to disease-modifying
Nationality: American treatments for fibrotic and neurodegenerative diseases. In total, Hal has authored 282 original
Appointed: 1 January 2022 publications in peer-reviewed journals during his career.
As a physician scientist, he has dedicated his entire career to the care and study of individuals
S with heritable connective tissue disorders with primary perturbations of extracellular matrix
homeostasis and function. His lab has identified the genes for many of these conditions, for which
he uses model systems to explain disease mechanisms.
Hal has received many prestigious awards including the Curt Stern Award from the American
Society of Human Genetics, the Colonel Harland Sanders Lifetime Achievement Award in
Medical Genetics, the Taubman Prize for excellence in translational medical science, the
Harrington Prize from the American Society for Clinical Investigation and the Harrington
Discovery Institute, the Pasarow Award in Cardiovascular Research, the InBev-Baillet Latour
Health Prize from Belgium, and the Research Achievement Award from the American Heart
Association.
He is an inductee of the American Society for Clinical Investigation, the American Association for
the Advancement of Science, the Association of American Physicians, the National Academy of
Medicine, and the National Academy of Sciences.
External appointments
Victor A. McKusick Professor of Paediatrics, Medicine, and Molecular Biology & Genetics in the
Department of Genetic Medicine, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine; Investigator,
Howard Hughes Medical Institute; Non-Executive Board Director, Altius Institute for Biomedical
Sciences; Independent Chair, GSK’s Human Genetics Scientific Advisory Board.
Key Committee Chair C Corporate Responsibility S Science N Nominations & Corporate Governance A Audit & Risk R Remuneration
110Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
The Board continued
Dr Jesse Goodman Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Jesse brings scientific and public health expertise to the Board’s deliberations. He has a wealth of
and Scientific & Medical Expert experience spanning science, medicine, vaccines, regulation and public health, and has a proven
record in addressing pressing public health needs in both the academic and federal sectors.
Age: 72
Jesse previously served in senior leadership positions at the US Food and Drug Administration
Nationality: American
(FDA), including most recently as the FDA’s Chief Scientist and previously as Deputy
Appointed: 1 January 2016
Commissioner for Science and Public Health and as Director of the Center for Biologics
Evaluation and Research (CBER).
S C
Jesse played a leadership role in developing the FDA’s Regulatory Science and Medical
Countermeasures Initiatives and has worked collaboratively with industry, academia, government
and global public health and regulatory partners to prepare for and respond to major public
health threats, including emerging infectious diseases, disasters and terrorism. He led the FDA’s
response to West Nile Virus and to the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic and served on the Senior
Leadership Team for the 2010 White House Medical Countermeasure Review. Jesse was
previously a member of both the Scientific Advisory Committee and the Regulatory and Legal
Working Group of the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI).
External appointments
Professor of Medicine and Attending Physician, Infectious Diseases, Georgetown University and
directs the Georgetown University Center on Medical Product Access, Safety and Stewardship
(COMPASS); Board Member (formerly President), United States Pharmacopeia (USP); Board
Member, Scientific Counselors for Infectious Diseases, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
(CDC); Board Member, Intellia Therapeutics Inc; Member, US National Academy of Medicine;
Board Member, Adaptive Phage Therapeutics, Inc.
Urs Rohner Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Urs has a broad business, banking and legal background and extensive senior level experience at
multinational companies.
Age: 64
Urs has served as Chairman on a number of Boards, most recently for Credit Suisse Group from
Nationality: Swiss
2011 until April 2021. Before joining Credit Suisse in 2004, Urs served as Chairman of the Executive
Appointed: 1 January 2015
Board and CEO of ProSieben and ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG. This followed a number of years in
private practice at major law firms in Switzerland and the US, having been admitted to the bars
R A N
of the canton of Zurich in Switzerland in 1986 and the state of New York in the US in 1990.
As a founding partner and Chair of Vega Cyber Associates AG, he brings current technology and
cybersecurity experience to the Board, further supplemented by digital transformation during his
time as Chair of Credit Suisse.
External appointments
Member, International Advisory Board, Investcorp; Chair, Vega Cyber Associates AG.
Dr Vishal Sikka Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Director Vishal has a distinguished background in technology, particularly in Artificial Intelligence (AI) and
Machine Learning (ML), which are central to GSK’s approach to R&D. He also brings a deep
Age: 56 understanding of cyber security to the Board. He is the founder and CEO of Vianai Systems, Inc, a
Nationality: American Silicon Valley-based company that provides advanced technological software and services in AI
Appointed: 18 July 2022 and ML to large enterprises around the world.
Before founding Vianai Systems in 2019, Vishal served as CEO of Infosys Limited, where he led an
C
innovative strategy to help clients renew existing IT landscapes, using automation, design
thinking and next-generation technologies to transform customer experiences. He also served as
a member of the Executive Board of SAP SE, prior to which he was its Chief Technology Officer.
Vishal has a PhD in AI from Stanford University and has co-authored several research abstracts
related to AI, technology and database management.
External appointments
Founder and CEO, Vianai Systems, Inc; Board Member, Oracle Corporation; Member, Supervisory
Board, BMW AG; Member of the Advisory Board of Stanford University's AI Center (Center for
Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence).
Key Committee Chair C Corporate Responsibility S Science N Nominations & Corporate Governance A Audit & Risk R Remuneration
Directors departing during 2023
Iain Mackay 14 January 2019 to 1 May 2023 Stepped down from the Board on 1 May and retired from the company on 31 December 2023.
111Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
GSK Leadership Team (GLT)
Skills and experience
Emma Walmsley Emma joined GSK in 2010 and the GLT in 2011. See Board biographies on pages 108 to 111.
Chief Executive Officer
Julie Brown Julie joined GSK and the GLT in 2023. See Board biographies on pages 108 to 111.
Chief Financial Officer
Diana Conrad Diana was appointed Chief People Officer and member of the GLT in April 2019. She was
Chief People Officer previously Senior Vice President, HR, Pharmaceuticals R&D from 2016 where she played a key
strategic role as leader of the R&D people and culture agenda to support its transformation.
Diana joined GSK Canada’s HR team in 2000 where she held several roles of increasing
responsibility before becoming Senior Vice President, HR for Consumer Healthcare in 2009.
Prior to joining GSK, she held HR roles in companies including GE Capital, Gennum Corporation
and Zenon Environmental Laboratories. Diana has an Honours Bachelor of Arts from McMaster
University in Canada.
James Ford James joined the GLT in 2018, when he was appointed Senior Vice President and Group General
SVP & Group General Counsel, Counsel, later taking responsibility for Compliance, Corporate Security and Investigations in 2021.
Legal and Compliance He joined GSK in 1995 and has served as General Counsel Consumer Healthcare, General
Counsel Global Pharmaceuticals, Vice President of Corporate Legal and was Acting Head of
Global Ethics and Compliance. Prior to GSK, James was a solicitor at Clifford Chance and DLA.
He holds a law degree from the University of East Anglia and a Diploma in Competition Law from
King's College. He is qualified as a solicitor in England and Wales and is an attorney at the New
York State Bar. James is based in London and has practised law and lived in the US, Singapore
and Hong Kong. James was co-chair of the US-based Civil Justice Reform Group 2019-2022, and
is a director of the European General Counsel Association and the Association of Corporate
Counsel.
Sally Jackson Sally joined the GLT in March 2019 as Senior Vice President, Global Communications and CEO
SVP, Global Communications Office. She leads our Communications and Government Affairs function globally and is also the
and CEO Office CEO’s Chief of Staff.
Prior to this, Sally was Senior Vice President, Office of the CEO and CFO and she previously
served as Head of Investor Relations. She joined GSK in 2001.
Sally holds a degree in Natural Sciences from the University of Cambridge.
Luke Miels Luke joined GSK and the GLT in 2017. As Chief Commercial Officer he is responsible for our
Chief Commercial Officer commercial portfolio of medicines and vaccines. Luke also co-chairs the Portfolio Investment
Board with Tony Wood and is a member of the ViiV Healthcare Board. Outside of GSK, Luke is
a member of the Singapore Economic Development Board.
He previously worked for AstraZeneca as Executive Vice President of their European business
and, prior to that, was Executive Vice President of Global Product and Portfolio Strategy, Global
Medical Affairs and Corporate Affairs. Before that, he was head of Asia for Roche, based in
Shanghai and then Singapore. Prior to that he held roles of increasing seniority at Roche and
Sanofi-Aventis in the US, Europe and Asia.
Luke holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Biology from Flinders University in Adelaide and a
MBA from the Macquarie University, Sydney.
Shobie Ramakrishnan Shobie joined the GLT in 2021 when she was appointed Chief Digital and Technology Officer. She
Chief Digital and Technology Officer joined GSK in 2018 and has deep and broad experience in both biotech and hi-tech companies
and, most recently, has led Digital and Technology for GSK’s Global Commercial organisation,
transforming the company’s capabilities in digital, data and analytics and playing a pivotal role
in establishing a more agile commercial operating model. Before joining GSK, Shobie held senior
technology leadership roles in organisations including AstraZeneca, Salesforce, Genentech and
Roche. She is a Non-Executive Director at Deliveroo. She is Board Member Emeritus at
SustainableIT.org and was formerly a member of the board of directors at Remediant.
Shobie holds a Bachelor’s degree in Electronics Engineering from Vellore Institute of Technology,
University of Madras, India.
112Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
GSK Leadership Team (GLT) continued
Skills and experience
David Redfern David joined the GLT as Chief Strategy Officer in 2008 and is responsible for corporate
President, Corporate Development development and strategic planning. Previously, he was Senior Vice President, Northern Europe
with responsibility for GSK’s pharmaceutical businesses in that region and, before that, he was
Senior Vice President for Central and Eastern Europe. He joined GSK in 1994. David was
appointed Chairman of the Board of ViiV Healthcare Limited in 2011 and a Non-Executive
Director of the Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited Board in 2015.
He has a Bachelor of Science degree from Bristol University and is a Chartered Accountant.
Regis Simard Regis joined the GLT in 2018, when he became President, Pharmaceuticals Supply Chain.
President, Global Supply Chain He is responsible for the manufacturing and supply of GSK’s medicines and vaccines. In addition,
he leads Quality and Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability at a corporate level. Regis
joined GSK in 2005 as a Site Director in France, rising to become Senior Vice President of Global
Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing before his current role. Previously, he held senior positions at
Sony, Konica Minolta and Tyco Healthcare. He is a member of the Board of ViiV Healthcare.
He is a mechanical engineer and holds an MBA.
Phil Thomson Phil joined the GLT in 2011. He was appointed President, Global Affairs in 2017, and has
President, Global Affairs responsibility for the Group’s strategic approach to stakeholder engagement, reputation and
policy development. Previously, Phil was Senior Vice President, Communications and Government
Affairs. He joined Glaxo Wellcome as a commercial trainee in 1996.
Phil holds a degree in English, History and Russian Studies from Durham University.
Deborah Waterhouse Deborah was appointed to the GLT in January 2020. She became Chief Executive Officer of ViiV
CEO, ViiV Healthcare and President, Healthcare in April 2017. In addition to ViiV, Deborah also leads GSK’s Global Health
GSK Global Health organisation.
Deborah joined GSK in 1996 and, prior to ViiV, was the Senior Vice President of Primary Care
within GSK’s US business. She has a strong track record of performance in both specialty and
primary care. Deborah led the HIV business in the UK before heading the HIV Centre of
Excellence for Pharma Europe and held roles as General Manager of Australia and New Zealand
and Senior Vice President for Central and Eastern Europe.
Deborah is a Non-Executive Director of Schroders plc and holds a degree in Economic History
and English Literature from Liverpool University.
Tony Wood Tony was appointed Chief Scientific Officer (CSO), Head of R&D and a member of GLT on 1
Chief Scientific Officer August 2022, following his appointment as CSO designate on 19 January 2022. He joined GSK
from Pfizer in 2017 as Senior Vice President, Medicinal Science and Technology, responsible for all
science and technology platforms driving the delivery of new innovation.
Tony has led large-scale global organisations in drug discovery and development in multiple
therapeutic areas, including immunology, oncology and infectious diseases. During his time at
Pfizer, Tony was responsible for the invention of a new antiretroviral medication used to treat HIV
infection. He is a Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences, an Honorary Fellow of the Royal
Society of Chemistry (RSC), the highest honour given by the RSC, and a Fellow of the Royal
Society of Biology.
Tony has a BSc in chemistry and PhD in organic synthesis from the University of Newcastle, and
was a postdoctoral fellow at Imperial College, London. He is also currently a visiting professor at
IMCM Oxford.
GLT members departing during 2023
(1) Iain Mackay was a member of the GLT and CFO until 1 May 2023. He stepped down from the Board on 1 May and retired from the company on 31
December 2023.
113Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Chair’s governance statement
In 2023 GSK continued to make significant progress as a pure biopharma company. The Board has the skills and
capabilities to challenge and support GSK’s performance and long-term success.
Board evolution Board succession
The Board’s composition will continue to evolve, but is now Two succession processes began in 2023. Urs Rohner, who has
tailored to the pure biopharma company that we are now. We chaired the Remuneration Committee since May 2015, reaches
have the relevant skills and experience with deep industry and just over nine years of service at the 2024 AGM. He will be
scientific expertise, as well as broad pharma business and succeeded following the AGM by Wendy Becker who joined the
commercial experience. Board in October 2023. Wendy has a strong background in
science, life sciences and technology, but is also a very
At the heart of the business is science and the choices we make.
experienced Remuneration Committee Chair with an
We are well equipped with Drs Hal Dietz, Hal Barron and Jesse
understanding of global corporates. She will oversee the next
Goodman who provide a breadth and depth of scientific
iteration of the Remuneration policy that will be presented at
knowledge which combines well with Vishal Sikka’s deep
the 2025 AGM.
expertise in technology, artificial intelligence and machine
learning (AI/ML). Liz Anderson provides strong commercial Our second succession planning focus has been for continued
expertise and Dr Anne Beal brings a strong focus on patients refreshment of the Board’s scientific expertise. Dr Laurie
and the patient experience. Charlie Bancroft’s extensive Glimcher, who stepped down from the Board in October 2022,
expertise as a pharma company executive and CFO means was not replaced as we were unsure of precisely what
that our Board now meets the needs of GSK today. additional skills we needed. As our focus deepens on RNA and
oligonucleotides we have undertaken a detailed search for a
At the management level we transitioned CFO from Iain
scientist with deep experience in RNA.
Mackay, who guided us through the separation of Haleon,
to Julie Brown, who has deep industry expertise. A successor to Dr Jesse Goodman, who is due to retire after
nine years’ service at our 2025 AGM, will be sought in 2024. His
Board industry experience
expertise in public health, infectious diseases and regulation
has been invaluable and necessary.
10
8 Board priorities and focus
6
GSK is now delivering meaningful and consistent improvement
4 in performance which needs to be sustained through effective
2 capital allocation and strategic choices. This was reflected in
the recent upgrade to our longer-term outlooks announced at
0
the beginning of the year.
Pharma/Life Tech Finance Consumer/Other
Sciences
The Board and management agendas are completely aligned
with clear focus on the three time periods that management
l 2022 pre-biopharma Board communicate on – financial performance to 2026, pipeline
l 2023 biopharma Board progress and business development to support the growth
ambitions to 2031 and the science and technologies that
Non-Executive Director tenure support the long-term growth of the business beyond 2031.
The primary focus of the Board’s work in 2023 was on building
confidence on the growth outlooks to 2031. The significant
opportunities that can come from AI/ML have been a theme
running through every Board meeting.
l Up to 3 years: 50%
l 3-6 years: 20%
l 6-9 years: 20%
l Over 9 years: 10%
2023 Board priorities
Focus on value creation, governance and oversight of
Ahead Together strategy
Delivery of performance targets
Execution of R&D pipeline and business development
Long-term R&D strategy and approach
End-to-end business impact of AI/technology
People/Talent/Culture
ESG leadership
Zantac litigation – defence and mitigation
Focus on shareholder value creation
114Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Chair’s governance statement continued
The Board supported the modular communication plan for Similarly, wherever I go in GSK, and this year my travels included
2023, which included deep insights into vaccines and infectious the US, China, the Middle East and Europe, I take the
disease, HIV, respiratory, immunology and oncology. The Board opportunity to meet with local employees at all levels in small
reviewed all of the strategies and priorities prior to groups. It is impressive to hear those I meet all talk with pride in
communication to the market. The revised outlooks presented our purpose and our mission towards prevention and improved
with the 2023 annual results were also reviewed extensively in human health.
the second half of the year along with the longer-term strategic
ESG continues to be right at the very heart of GSK and its
plan. In terms of business development, the Board and Science
ambition. We are particularly proud of the progress that we are
Committee work alongside Emma and the management team
making in DEI in terms of our people, and in the diversity of our
to understand the scientific rationale, competitiveness of the
clinical trials.
asset under consideration and potential returns and value
creation. This was a significant activity of the Board in 2023. Shareholder perspectives and engagement
Board visits are an important element of our Board programme. The Board and I believe in the importance of maintaining a
In March the Board spent three days visiting our Vaccines site in continuous level of engagement with shareholders. During the
Wavre, Belgium. Board members had a deep immersion in the year I continued to meet with a range of investors; combined
vaccines business and the work at the site and were inspired by they represented approximately 30% of our share register. This
the passion and commitment of the group of around 150 year all our Non-Executive Board members attended our
employees they spent time with during the visit. Similarly, the Annual Governance Meeting to hear shareholders views first
Board will be holding its March meeting in 2024 in North hand. The feedback shareholders provide is invaluable to the
Carolina for an immersive briefing on our HIV business. shaping of the Board’s work. We appreciate the clarity and
efficiency that direct engagement brings and we continue to
R&D progress and Technology
welcome the opportunity to engage with investors directly on all
The longer-term future of the company comes from deep aspects of GSK and the Board’s work.
sustainable productivity of internal and externally sourced R&D
We welcome the approach taken by the Financial Reporting
and from our investment in technology. The path we set out on
Council in its updated UK Corporate Governance Code to
five years ago was routed in our commitment to transform our
encourage Boards to be bolder in choosing the right approach
productivity through the use of technology.
for their business and explaining why it is important to do so if
Last year the Board’s R&D updates centred on antibody drug necessary.
conjugates, Oligonucleotides, AMR, Vaccines and RNA and
Shareholder value
liver disease. These discussions were supported and validated
by prior deep-dives by the Science Committee. We have made progress in 2023 but there is, and will always be,
more to do. The key to improved returns is consistency of
Embracing the potential of AI/ML in every part of the business
performance, and consistency in communication. During 2023, I
is crucial to our medium and long-term success. We deliberately
believe management delivered on both, but this all has to be
have a wealth of tech experience on the Board ranging from Dr
translated into sustained shareholder value creation. We are
Hal Barron’s R&D experience at Verily and Google, to Vishal
acutely aware that has not happened yet.
Sikka’s unique tech vantage point and expertise in AI and ML.
Our CEO also brings unique insights from her role at Microsoft, In terms of the Zantac litigation, the Board is deeply involved in
along with my own experience of the use of technology in the overall strategy with the CEO and General Counsel. In
biotechs and through the UK’s national genomics programmes. addition, every quarter the Audit & Risk Committee reviews the
Collectively the deep appreciation of the tremendous potential disclosures with our Auditor to ensure that they are complete,
that technology can unlock give us the reassurance to execute fair and that the accounting judgments are appropriate.
with confidence. While our biggest investment has of course
I believe 2023 was a year of significant progress across all of
been in R&D, every part of GSK now has technology built into
the time periods to 2026, 2026 to 2031 and beyond 2031. We
optimising their priorities.
have a clear and aligned work programme for 2024. The Board
Culture & responsibility is very different to what it was two years ago. I am really
delighted not just with the progress Emma and the
The Board receives regular briefings on our people, talent and
management team have made, but the performance of the
culture. At every Board interaction, wherever we are, the Board
Board too.
meets between 50 to 100 members of local employee talent.
This enables us to get a first hand impression of our culture and I encourage you to read my Board colleagues' committee
the mood of employees and to hear their views of the company. updates (which follow on pages 128 to 138) and provide greater
detail on their work during 2023.
Thank you for your continued support and I look forward to
connecting with you during the year, whether at our Annual
General Meeting in May, or otherwise.
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chair
27 February 2024
115Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Corporate governance architecture
Our corporate governance architecture is a framework designed to improve the Board's effectiveness and to support its oversight of
the GSK Leadership Team (GLT) as it delivers the company's strategy. This framework continues to evolve to support our
infrastructure and priorities as a pure biopharma business.
GSK’s internal control and risk management arrangements are integral to our overall corporate governance framework and are
described on pages 57 to 76 and pages 134 and 135.
To ensure the framework's optimal effectiveness, it has:
–a clear division of responsibilities for individual and collective Board roles, as described on page 117
–the appropriate distribution of workload to the Board committee with the requisite focus and skills
–highly committed Board Directors who are motivated to carry out their roles and responsibilities for the success of the company
Committee roles
Committee
report
Committee Role and focus Membership on page
Chairs’ Acts on behalf of the Board between its scheduled meetings to take decisions on urgent Sir Jonathan Symonds –
matters in accordance with matters and authority delegated to it by the Board from time to (company Chair)
time Senior Independent
Director
Chairs of the Board's
committees
Corporate Considers GSK's Trust priority and has oversight of our responsible business approach and Dr Anne Beal (Chair) 128-129
Responsibility ESG strategy, performance and reporting. This reflects the most important issues for Dr Jesse Goodman
responsible and sustainable business growth. Has oversight of the views and interests of our Dr Vishal Sikka
internal and external stakeholders, and reviews issues that could have a serious impact on
GSK’s business and reputation
Science Supports the Board in its understanding of business development transactions and the key Dr Hal Dietz (Chair) 129-130
strategic themes on which the company's R&D strategy is based, by reviewing underlying Dr Jesse Goodman
scientific assumptions in detail and giving the Board technical assurance. Has in-depth Dr Hal Barron
oversight of R&D-related risks
Nominations Reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board, the appointment of members to Sir Jonathan Symonds 131-132
& Corporate Board committees and the appointment of corporate officers. Makes recommendations to (Chair)
Governance the Board as appropriate. Plans and assesses orderly succession for Executive and Non- Charles Bancroft
Executive Directors and reviews management's succession plan to ensure its adequacy Dr Anne Beal
Urs Rohner
Is responsible for overseeing, monitoring and making recommendations to the Board on
corporate governance arrangements. Reviews Board and GLT conflicts of interest
Audit & Risk Reviews the financial reporting process, the integrity of the company’s financial statements, Charles Bancroft 133-138
the external and internal audit process, the system of internal control, and the identification (Chair)
and management of risks such as Information and cyber security, and the company’s Elizabeth McKee
process for monitoring compliance with laws, regulations and ethical codes of practice Anderson
Wendy Becker
Oversees ESG data reporting and assurance. Initiates audit tenders, the selection and
Urs Rohner
appointment of the external auditor, setting the auditor's remuneration and overseeing its work
Remuneration Sets the company’s Remuneration policy having regard to GSK’s workforce remuneration Urs Rohner (Chair) 139-160
so that GSK is able to recruit, retain and motivate its executives Wendy Becker (Chair
Designate)
Regularly reviews the Remuneration policy to make sure that it is consistent with the
Charles Bancroft
company’s scale and scope of operations, supports the business strategy and growth plans,
Dr Anne Beal
is aligned to the wider workforce and helps drive the creation of shareholder value
Elizabeth McKee
(The Chair and the CEO are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Anderson
Board about remuneration arrangements and policy for the Non-Executive Directors)
Each Board committee has written terms of reference that are approved by the Board and reviewed at least annually to make sure they comply
with the latest legal and regulatory requirements and reflect best practice developments. Terms of reference of each Board committee are
available at gsk.com.
116Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Corporate governance architecture continued
Leadership Independent oversight and rigorous challenge
Chair Senior Independent Director
Jonathan Symonds Charles Bancroft
–leads and manages the business of the Board –acts as a sounding board for the Chair and a trusted
–provides direction and focus intermediary for other Directors
–ensures a clear structure for the Board and its –together with the Non-Executive Directors, leads the
committees to operate effectively annual review of the Chair’s performance, taking into
–maintains a dialogue with shareholders about the account the views of the Executive Directors
governance of the company –discusses the results of the Chair’s effectiveness review
–sets the Board agenda and ensures sufficient time is with the Chair
allocated to promote effective debate to support sound –leads the search and appointment process and makes
decision-making the recommendation to the Board for a new Chair
–ensures the Board receives accurate, timely and clear –acts as an additional point of contact for shareholders.
information Maintains an understanding of their issues and concerns
–meets regularly with each Non-Executive Director to through meetings with shareholders and briefings from
discuss individual contributions and performance, and the Company Secretary and Investor Relations
training and development needs
+GSK's Senior Independent Non-Executive Director’s role description is
–shares peer feedback that is provided as part of the available at gsk.com
Board evaluation process
–meets regularly with all the Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors
independently of the Executive Directors
–provide a strong independent element to the Board
+The Chair’s role description is available at gsk.com –constructively support and challenge management and
scrutinise its performance in achieving agreed
deliverables
Chief Executive Officer
Emma Walmsley –shape proposals about strategy and offer specialist
advice to management
–manages the Group and its business
–each has a letter of appointment setting out the terms
–develops the Group’s strategic direction for the Board's
and conditions of their directorship
consideration and approval
–devote such time as is necessary to the proper
–implements the agreed strategy
performance of their duties
–is supported by the GLT
–are expected to attend all meetings as required
–maintains a continuous dialogue with shareholders in
respect of the company’s performance
Independence statement
+The Chief Executive Officer’s role description is available at gsk.com The Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors who
are identified on pages 108 to 111 – except Dr Hal Barron –
to be independent after being assessed against Provision
10 of the Financial Reporting Council's (FRC) UK
Corporate Governance Code (Code)
+GSK's Non-Executive Directors' role description is available at gsk.com
Company Secretary –is secretary to the Board and all Board committees
Victoria Whyte –supports the Board and Committee Chairs to plan future agendas and annual programmes
–ensures information is made available to Board members in a timely fashion
–supports the Chair to design and deliver Board inductions
–coordinates continuing business awareness and training for the Non-Executive Directors
–undertakes internal Board and committee evaluations at the Chair's request
–advises the Directors on Board practice and procedures and corporate governance matters
–chairs the Group's Disclosure Committee
–operates a Board-approved appointments policy that reflects the Board and external
appointment requirements of the Code
–is a point of contact for shareholders on all corporate governance matters
117Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Corporate governance architecture continued
2023 Board and committee attendance
Nominations &
Corporate Corporate
Board Chairs’ Responsibility Science Governance Audit & Risk Remuneration
Total number of routine meetings 6 3 4 3 5 6 5
Current members Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended
Sir Jonathan Symonds 6 3 5
Emma Walmsley 6
Julie Brown (from 1 May) 4 (4)
Elizabeth McKee Anderson 6 6 5
Dr Hal Barron 6 3
Charles Bancroft 6 3 5 6 5
Dr Anne Beal 6 3 4 5 5
Wendy Becker (from 1 October) 2 (2) 2 (2) 2 (2)
Dr Harry Dietz 6 3 3
Dr Jesse Goodman 6 4 3
Urs Rohner 6 1 5 6 5
Dr Vishal Sikka 4* 2
Retired members
Iain Mackay (until 1 May) 2 (2)
Number of additional meetings 4 – 1 6 – 3 1
For those Directors who served for part of the year, the numbers in brackets show the number of meetings the Directors were eligible to attend. Details of
committee members’ skills and experience are included in their biographies on pages 108 to 111. There was a high attendance record at scheduled Board and
committee meetings for all our Directors who served during 2023, as set out above. In January 2024, Urs Rohner has reached nine years of service and will
step down from the Board at the 2024 AGM as planned. He continues to demonstrate all the characteristics of independence expected by the Board in
carrying out his role on the Board.
*Dr Vishal Sikka joined the Board in July 2022. During his first year on the Board he was unable to attend two Board meetings because of pre-existing
external board commitments. He contributed fully to the Board’s work during 2023. He met regularly with the Chair to provide his input on Board and
Committee materials. He inputted on technology and AI discussions at the Audit & Risk Committee. He also spent time with our Chief Digital and Technology
Officer and her team during the year, sharing his expertise and perspectives.
FRC UK Corporate Governance Code
Financial experience Members of the Audit & Risk Committee also have financial
and industry experience, details of which can be found in their
In accordance with the FRC's Code, the Board determined
biographies on pages 108 to 111.
that Charles Bancroft has recent and relevant financial
experience. It has also agreed that he has the appropriate Compliance statement
qualifications and background to be an audit committee
The Board is pleased to report that in 2023 it was in full
financial expert as defined by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
alignment with the provisions of the FRC's Code.
2002, and has determined that he is independent within the
meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Board is also pleased to report that it has consistently
applied the principles of the FRC's Code, as set out on the
pages of this Corporate Governance report. A copy of the
Code is available on the FRC’s website at www.frc.org.uk.
Board appointments policy
All our Non-Executive Directors are expected to devote such time as is necessary for the performance of their duties. Each Director
is required to attend a minimum of 75% of scheduled Board and committee meetings. However, it is recognised that there may be
rare occasions when this is not possible, as explained above in the attendance table. Special allowance is also given during the first
year of Board membership while calendars are aligned.
Our Board Directors’ external appointments are governed by a Board-approved policy. It is considered that external appointments
can help Board and GLT members widen their expertise and knowledge, and hence perform their roles more effectively. When
proposing new Non-Executive Director appointments to the Board for approval, the Board considers the other demands on the
individuals’ time. Before being appointed to the Board, an individual is required to disclose the significant commitments they may
have with an indication of the time involved.
Subsequently, all additional prospective external appointments for serving Board Directors are considered and approved by the
Board, noting the nature of the role and type of organisation, time commitment and any potential conflicts that could arise.
The Company Secretary maintains a register of commitments and potential conflicts. The Board is satisfied that given Directors’
other interests, each has sufficient time to carry out their role with GSK. Our Executive and Non-Executive Directors may undertake a
maximum of one or up to four other listed-company directorships respectively.
118Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Ahead Together – Board oversight
The Board carries out its responsibilities through an annual programme of meetings
The Board seeks to optimise its effectiveness by setting its annual meeting programme to focus on priorities agreed for the year to
support delivery of the company's short-, medium- and long-term strategy. The Board and its committees' programmes of work are
set to complement each other and avoid unnecessary duplication. During the year the Board received papers and presentations
and actively discussed progress with management and our people. These materials and discussions help the Board make effective
decisions, and contribute to its oversight of business performance and ensure good governance.
The key areas the Board considered in 2023 are highlighted below:
Areas of focus in
2023 The Board's work in 2023 included:
Building Overseeing GSK as a pure biopharma business and delivery of performance included:
momentum as a
– setting and approving the Board's 2023-2024 priorities
pure biopharma
company – discussing and scrutinising strategic plans for GSK and assessing the potential to upgrade our longer-term outlook
– scrutinising updates on R&D strategy, progress and progression of the company's pipeline
– discussing GSK's overall commercial strategy and in particular for China
– discussing end-to-end business opportunities and the impact of AI and other advanced technologies for performance and
patients
Ahead Together Overseeing the fundamentals of commercial execution, cost-base management, capital allocation, pipeline and culture included:
– further
– receiving regular reports from the CEO, CFO and CSO including the assessment of delivery of performance targets
strengthening
the – receiving updates on R&D strategy, approach and pipeline progress
fundamentals
– assessing the product area strategy reports on Vaccines, Speciality Care (including HIV), Oncology and General Medicines
of value
creation – reviewing GSK's capital allocation priorities to ensure investment for growth to deliver improved returns for shareholders
– evaluating business development transactions, acquisitions and strategic partnerships with third parties including BELLUS
Health, Zhifei, Hansoh, Aiolos Bio, Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals and Janssen Pharmaceuticals
– scrutinising the Group's financial performance, shareholder value creation and development of Investor Relations Roadmap
– reviewing Zantac litigation strategy
– approving the monetisation of the retained shares in Haleon post demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business
Enhancing Overseeing culture and embedding ESG at our core included:
ESG leadership
– assessing ESG performance and reviewed plans for low-carbon Ventolin, including clinical and non-clinical data available to
support regulatory submissions
– approving the ESG Performance Report
– oversight of the company's Pricing and Access Policy principles
– reviewing stakeholder perception research
Regular The Board’s programme of governance included:
corporate
– reviewing the quarterly financial results, dividend proposals, earnings guidance, investor materials, results announcements and
governance
2022 Annual Report and Form 20F and receiving related reports from the external auditor
oversight
– setting the annual budget and the forward-looking three-year plan and long-range forecast
– conducting an annual review of the enterprise risk responsibility framework and enterprise-wide risks
– undertaking an annual Board evaluation and implementing its agreed outcomes
– receiving reports on Board committee work and reviewing and continuing to evolve the Board’s governance architecture
– evaluating the CEO’s 2023 performance, and setting her 2024 objectives
– reviewing culture, talent and succession plans annually
– engaging with GSK's stakeholders and people to gather and understand their views about the company’s activities,
operations and culture
– reviewing the employee pulse survey results
– receiving reports on wider corporate governance and regulatory developments, and the Company Secretary’s report
– approving the company's modern slavery statement and gender pay gap positioning
119Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Ahead Together – Board oversight continued
Board performance Board committee evaluations
The review of the Board committees focused on potential
The Board evaluates its performance, and that of its opportunities to further support GSK's momentum as a pure
committees, every year. biopharma company, to help remove duplication and support
the delivery of the Board's priorities identified for 2024. In
The evaluation is normally carried out externally every third
addition, each committee reviewed its committee members'
year. The most recent external evaluation was facilitated in
tenure, expertise and diversity.
2022 by Jan Hall of No 4, a business advisory company that
does not have any other connection with GSK. Each committee was considered to have operated effectively
and the following enhancements were agreed:
The 2023 Board and committee evaluation was conducted
internally by the Company Secretary who: –Corporate Responsibility Committee: has a wide remit and
was performing well. Consideration would be given to
–provided a questionnaire to Board members
additional routes to identify potential emerging issues within
–drew together responses and themes from the responses to the Committee's area of responsibility for its review. In
discuss outcomes and recommendations with each addition, the Committee would continue to seek external
Committee Chair perspectives to provide challenge
–Science Committee: was working effectively. Opportunities to
–following discussion with each committee and the Board as a
further enhance effectiveness were considered. In particular
whole, identified areas of focus and improvement for the
the Committee's 2024 programme would focus on R&D's
Board and committees, which are set out below
Tech strategy. The capacity to undertake more deep dives on
Action points specific areas of R&D activity and to input earlier into new
projects would be explored
After due consideration and discussion, the following action
–Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee: was
points to further improve performance in 2024 were agreed:
working effectively. A successor to Dr Jesse Goodman was
–the key priorities for the Board's focus and programme of being sought ahead of his retirement from the Board in 2025.
meetings for the year ahead The Committee would undertake a review of the Board and
committee architecture and membership in 2024 to ensure it
–given the fundamental importance of culture, the Board
remained aligned to Board priorities
wished to ensure it too fully embodied GSK's culture and
–Audit & Risk Committee: was considered to be effective. The
would therefore undertake the culture training provided to
work to appropriately streamline material reviewed by the
employees
Committee has made good progress and will continue as an
–additional opportunities to increase informal engagement area of opportunity. In the year ahead the Committee will
between the Board and management also continue to give focus on tech, cyber security and the
use of AI
–the removal of unnecessary duplication in the Board and its
–Remuneration Committee: had operated effectively during
committees' work would be continued. This programme aims
2023 despite a challenging environment. The focus for 2024
to further simplify papers and create time to have deeper
would be to determine the right business imperatives for
discussions in meetings
GSK's next remuneration policy to ensure it was globally
competitive and rewarded delivery of outperformance
Chair's evaluation
The Senior Independent Director (SID) carried out the Chair's
evaluation. He sought feedback on the Chair's performance
from the Directors individually and collectively. From this review,
they concluded that the Chair was leading the Board
appropriately and effectively. The Chair and SID discussed the
results of the review.
120Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Continuous engagement and key decisions
Prioritising continuous engagement
Our stakeholders rightly have high expectations of us, and the and then on an ongoing basis. They are encouraged to report
company's dynamic operating environment presents many to the Board on such experiences where relevant and material.
challenges and opportunities. As a Board we aim to make sure
Engaging with our people
that being commercially successful is balanced and aligned
with meeting our stakeholders’ expectations, upholding our
We have well-established and strong engagement mechanisms
reputation, maintaining our licence to operate and building
with our employees, which are described on pages 14 and 15,
trust. We engage with or are briefed about our stakeholders'
and which the Board monitors regularly. Four key governance
views to make sure we identify and respond to their
channels help the Board understand what our people are
expectations effectively and appropriately.
thinking:
How we engage with our main stakeholder groups – including
–regular Board updates from our Chief People Officer and the
patients, shareholders, consumers, customers and our people –
CEO on culture and talent
across the company is covered in the pages of the Strategic
–feedback from an annual employee engagement survey,
report.
including questions on engagement, confidence and
Patients and our people are two stakeholders at the heart of inclusivity
our culture, with all our people ambitious for patients, –a range of pulse surveys of different-sized employee groups
accountable for outcomes and committed to doing the right to help check sentiment on a quicker and more frequent
thing. Our culture is described on pages 14 and 15 of the basis, and to provide valuable insights on the impact of major
Strategic report. initiatives, events or communications
–direct engagement by the Board
The influence and importance of different stakeholder groups
can vary, depending on the matter being considered. Certain Workforce engagement: Before the company's demerger, the
stakeholders’ interests can be in conflict, meaning that we, as a Board reviewed its formal workforce engagement
Board, need to make balanced judgements. arrangements. It was decided to move from a specific
Workforce Engagement Director model and to apply an
Continuous stakeholder engagement and feedback helps us
‘alternative arrangement’ to the three methods set out in the
identify emerging issues. It also enables us to make decisions in
FRC’s Code.
the context of what is relevant and important to each of them.
Given that the new GSK Board was recently refreshed in terms
Our principal Board committees, and the GLT, undertake
of tenure, with more than half the independent Non-Executive
engagement on the Board’s behalf according to their remit.
Directors having served for less than three years, and given
This means that they can build a detailed understanding of how
GSK's renewed purpose and focus as a global biopharma
our actions or plans are affecting or might affect stakeholders.
company, it was considered important to adopt a collective
These insights are then shared with the Board.
Board engagement model. This was agreed to be the most
In particular, the Board receives briefings on stakeholders’ effective approach to ensure newer Board members meet
perspectives from the work of the Corporate Responsibility employees and hear their views.
Committee, which is discussed on pages 128 and 129.
This new model operated in 2023 through:
Board members regularly receive:
–direct in-person receptions with local employees during
–the CEO’s Board report Board site visits, including in Wavre, Belgium (as one of our
–a specific external stakeholder insights report. This provides two global Vaccines hubs), Boston, US, and our global
strategic insights based on an analysis of key developments, headquarters in Brentford
achievements and risks affecting our reputation and the –the Chair's site visits, including to the Wavre and Singapore
perceptions of all our external stakeholders Vaccine manufacturing sites, and the Philadelphia
–a regular investor relations report which summarises investor Commercial site
perceptions –the Chair's attendance at management meetings, including
–regular corporate governance, litigation and regulatory China Commercial employees, the Commercial Core
updates Leadership team in the UK, China regional general managers
and Commercial talent and Saudi Arabia general
The Board also learns of stakeholders' views through:
management team
Engagement and feedback events: such as quarterly investor –the Chair and Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair
results calls, the Annual General Meeting, employee survey convene and attend ongoing meetings with leaders of the
reports, the Board’s workforce engagement activities, and from company's employee resource groups to talk about how they
experts presenting at Board or committee meetings. The Chair experience GSK, how they think the DEI agenda and
also holds regular investor check-in meetings, which the SID, ambitions are progressing and sharing their suggestions to
Charlie Bancroft, sometimes joins, and is available for individual further enhance our DEI agenda
meetings with investors. –utilising a variety of bespoke engagements that have
enabled a broad and open dialogue and facilitated first-
Other opportunities: Board members also gain wider
hand engagement discussions between the NEDs and our
stakeholder views during the annual strategy meeting with the
people individually and as part of small groups,
GLT, as part of the yearly review of strategy, budget and
encompassing perspectives on our strategy, purpose and
planning processes. This also includes a review of specific
Ahead Together culture, and DEI
aspects of the company’s policies or strategy. In addition, Board
members are encouraged to meet individually with employees,
shareholders and other key stakeholders during their induction,
121Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Continuous engagement and key decisions continued
Engaging with our shareholders Annual Governance Meeting
As a Board we aim to directly engage with and be directly This year’s hybrid meeting was held in central London.
accountable to institutional investors and private retail Institutional shareholders, key investment industry bodies and
shareholders. We do this in several ways, including regular proxy advisory firms were invited. 15 representatives of various
communications, the Annual Governance Meeting, our Annual institutional shareholders and proxy advisers attended the
General Meeting, and through the work of our Investor Relations event, comprising approximately 25% of the company's share
team, the Chair, Jonathan Symonds, and our Company register.
Secretary, Victoria Whyte. Our SID, Charlie Bancroft, is another
The meeting had a new format to make it as interactive as
point of contact for our shareholders.
possible. It began with Jon sharing with investors the Board's
Each quarter, our CEO, Emma Walmsley, and CFO, Julie Brown, priorities and focus for 2023 and beyond, with Charlie then
give results presentations to institutional investors, analysts and providing his reflections on the year. Jon, Charlie and our Non-
the media by webcast. They are also regularly joined by the Executive Directors then held an informal and open discussion
CSO, the Chief Commercial Officer (CCO), and CEO, ViiV. They of those issues on shareholders' minds, which helped foster a
are able to provide investors with more detailed insights into richer dialogue.
their specific areas of responsibility.
The key themes covered included the:
Through regular meetings, they each have an ongoing and
–Board changes and succession planning arrangements
active dialogue with institutional shareholders about the
–work of and challenges for the Board over the last year
company's performance, plans and objectives. In 2023,
–company's current and future momentum and excellent
–CEO: 103 engagements, representing 38% of the company's execution of our key priorities
share register –harnessing of digital, technology and talent, driven by our
–The current and previous CFO: 60 and 51 engagements, Ahead Together purpose
comprising 33% and 31% of the register –positive signs of the influence of our culture of being
–CSO: 90 engagements, representing 31% of the register ambitious for patients, accountable for impact and doing the
–CCO: 80 engagements, representing 39% of the register right thing
–CEO, ViiV: 61 engagements with 39% of the register
The meeting and its new format were well received and
Our Chair maintains a consistent dialogue with shareholders shareholder feedback was shared with the full Board.
too – including fund and portfolio managers – and regularly
Annual General Meeting
engages with governance and ESG professionals. During 2023
We were pleased to hold the company's hybrid AGM at the
and up to the date of publication of this Annual Report, Jon
Sofitel Heathrow in May 2023. 72 shareholders joined the
held over 30 individual engagements with a range of
meeting in person and 49 shareholders joined virtually via the
institutional shareholders, which make up approximately 30% of
Lumi platform to watch or listen to updates from our Chair and
the company’s share register. This enables him to gain a current
the CEO, and to vote. Shareholders were able to ask questions
understanding of shareholders' views, insights and perspectives
during the meeting in person and virtually. All our proposed
of the company. He also discusses the continual evolution of
resolutions were approved by shareholders, with majorities
the many aspects of Board governance, performance oversight
ranging from 89% to 99%.
and succession.
Our hybrid AGM this year will be held at a new venue, Royal
This year our Chair, CEO and the rest of the Board and key GLT
Lancaster Hotel in Central London, which is located close to our
members focused on communicating the strong ongoing
new global headquarters. For more details see page 298.
performance of GSK as a global biopharma business, the
successful launch of Arexvy, the world's first RSV vaccine, and
progressing our pipeline across the core therapy areas of
infectious diseases, HIV, respiratory/immunology.and oncology.
122Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Continuous engagement and key decisions continued
Section 172 statement
Board members are required by law to promote the success of their company for the benefit of both shareholders and wider
stakeholders, including employees, suppliers and society. This statement meets the requirement, as set out in Section 172 and
Section 414CZA of the Companies Act 2006 (Act). It summarises how, during 2023, our Directors addressed the matters set out in
Section 172(1) (a) to (f) of the Act when performing their duties.
The Board considers that this statement focuses on those risks and opportunities that are strategically important to GSK, consistent
with the Group’s size and complexity. This allows it to properly understand the potential effects of the decisions it makes on all
stakeholders.
The details of our engagement with our main stakeholder groups, including our patients, shareholders, consumers, customers and
employees across the organisation, is summarised generally throughout the pages of our Strategic report. The Board's continuous
engagement with the company's shareholders and people in particular is set out in this section on pages 121 to 127. Our corporate
governance architecture and processes are summarised on pages 116 to 118.
The Board seeks to consider all relevant matters when making decisions, most especially when these are to continue to drive
performance and momentum for GSK into the future.
(a) Long-term results
The likely consequences of any decision in the long term
In a challenging economic and political landscape, the Directors the proposed choice, highlighting any relevant stakeholder
recognise the criticality of investing in a pipeline of vaccines and impacts of the proposal under consideration, whether positive
medicines to prevent disease as well as meeting the changing and/or negative. The Directors then have all the relevant
and unmet healthcare needs in support of GSK’s purpose, our factors for consideration during their decision-making process
Ahead Together strategy and ultimately the long-term success
Papers/information relevant to this duty are normally submitted
and sustainability of GSK. At the same time, GSK works with
by the CEO; CFO; Chief Scientific Officer; Chief Commercial
governments, regulators and industry partners to ensure our
Officer; President, Corporate Development; President, Global
medicines and vaccines can reach patients at scale, bringing
Affairs, or other GLT members and/or their direct reports for
value to both the patients who need them and to payers
input, challenge and decision or awareness of the Directors
Our Directors appreciate that assessing the consequences of
Matters considered by our Directors include:
their long-term decisions in this environment can be
multifaceted, finely balanced and invariably involves a trade- –Pipeline progression reviews
off between competing stakeholder interests
–Budget planning
To support their decision-making, Directors are provided with
–Business development deals
papers/information that, as a minimum, describe the long-term
proposal under consideration and comment on how it: –Capital allocation priorities
–fits with/strengthens or otherwise impacts the business –Commercial (Vaccines, General Meds and Specialty) reviews
strategy, budget and the three-year plan if relevant
–Dividend policy
–is aligned with our Ahead Together ambition and outlooks
–ESG ambitions, including our six areas of ESG focus
Our Directors are also apprised of success and risk factors and,
if appropriate, alternatives considered and the rationale for For more specific details see our Ahead Together and business
model disclosures on pages 1, 8 and 9
(b) Our workforce
Interests of our people
Our Directors understand that our people are at the core of our Matters considered by our Directors include:
Ahead Together ambition, helping to power our purpose and
–Culture progress
delivering on our strategy and seek to create and oversee an
environment at GSK in which outstanding people can thrive. –Talent pipeline
A positive employee experience is critical to attract, retain and
–Diversity, equity and inclusion ambitions
motivate the best people
–Ethnicity and gender pay gap data, trends and reporting
Papers/information relevant to this duty are normally submitted
to the Board by the Chief People Officer or Head of Reward for –Employee engagement practices and feedback
input, challenge and decision or awareness by our Directors
–Health and safety risks
–Pay fairness and benefits
–Performance with choice and the workplace environment
For more specific details see our culture and people, diversity,
equity and inclusion and engaging with our people disclosures
on pages 14 and 15, 52 and 53 and 121
123Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Continuous engagement and key decisions continued
(c) Our business relationships
The importance of developing the Group’s business relationships with suppliers, customers and others
Patients are placed by GSK at the heart of our purpose and Matters considered by our Directors include:
culture, where we are all ambitious for patients, accountable for
–Access to healthcare
our impact and do the right thing
–Ethical standards
Our suppliers and other key stakeholders – including
governments, NGOs, healthcare authorities, healthcare –Global health and health security
professionals, R&D joint venture partners, affiliate companies
and others – help us research, develop, manufacture, regulate, –Human rights
provide access and distribute the medicines, vaccines and other
–Modern slavery act statement
products that patients need
–Product governance
A key imperative for our Directors, as custodians of a
responsible business, is to ensure the company develops and –Scientific and patient engagement
monitors these relationships and partnerships to ultimately
–Supplier payment policy
serve patients. In line with our Code of Conduct, our suppliers
are expected to meet our Anti-bribery and corruption and –Third-party risk management programme
labour rights standards and to comply with our standards on
–Working with third parties policy
quality, health and safety, and the environment (which are
explored in further detail below). In helping to foster good For more specific details see our responsible business
relations with suppliers we offer preferential payment terms to disclosures on pages 45 to 55
designated smaller suppliers in the UK and US
Papers/information relevant to this duty are normally submitted
by the CEO; CFO; President; Global Supply Chain; Chief
Commercial Officer; Chief Scientific Officer; President, Global
Affairs and/or their direct reports for input, challenge and
decision or awareness by our Directors
(d) The community and the environment
The impact of the Group’s operations on the community and our environment
The environment is one of our principal ESG focus areas. ESG is Papers/information relevant to this duty are normally submitted
embedded in our strategy and fundamental to our success. To by the President, Global Affairs; President, Global Supply; and
get ahead of disease and to help ensure this long-term success, Chief People Officer and/or their direct reports for input,
our Directors recognise that as a responsible business we need challenge and decision or awareness by our Directors
to consider ESG impacts across everything we do. This extends
Matters considered by our Directors include:
from the lab to patients, by taking action on climate and nature
–Community investment and donations policy
Our manufacturing sites have a key role in our contribution to a
net zero, nature positive, healthier planet, and environmental –Clinical trial diversity planning and enrolment
sustainability is a fundamental part of our global supply chain
–Diversity, equity and inclusion strategy
strategy. Supplier action will in turn help GSK achieve its
environmental goals on climate and nature. This is embodied in –Environment, net zero and nature positive goals
GSK’s Sustainable Procurement Programme which, in its first full
year in operation, has seen our suppliers take action on carbon, –Environment, health and safety risks
power, heat, transport, water, waste, and sustainable,
–Emerging climate and environmental legislative/regulatory
deforestation-free sourcing of materials in support of our
reviews
environmental sustainability goals
For more specific details see our responsible business and
Our Directors believe the company should be reflective of and
climate and nature-related financial disclosures on pages 45 to
support the diversity in the local communities in which we serve.
55 and 62 to 75
In doing so, we are strengthening early STEM education
investments to further support a long-term diverse talent pool
and increase the positive impact of volunteering activities within
our communities. We are also investing in plans to improve
natural habitats, protect biodiversity and improve soil and water
quality near our manufacturing sites
124Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Continuous engagement and key decisions continued
(e) Our reputation
Our desire to maintain our reputation for high standards of business conduct
As a responsible company, GSK seeks to be a force for good, Matters considered by our Directors include:
with ambitious targets for positive impact on the health of
–Audit & Assurance plan
people, society and the planet. The company manages risks
effectively, takes action if things go wrong and seeks to respect –Code of Conduct
human rights. Our Directors periodically review the continuing
–Corporate and financial statements
appropriateness of the frameworks underpinning our high
standards of business, such as our Code of Conduct, including a –Corporate governance and regulatory updates
range of policies and standards, and the architecture of our
corporate governance arrangements –Enterprise risk assessments
Papers/information relevant to this duty are normally submitted –ESG ambitions, including our six areas of ESG focus
by the CEO; CFO; General Counsel; Chief Commercial Officer;
–Emerging ESG legislative/regulatory reviews
President, Global Affairs; Chief People Officer; Chief Digital and
Technology Officer; Chief Compliance Officer; the Company –Internal control and risk effectiveness reviews
Secretary; and Head of Audit & Assurance for input, challenge
–Speak Up and internal investigations
and decision or awareness by our Directors
For more specific details see our responsible business and
corporate governance architecture disclosures on pages 45 to
55 and 116 to 118, and our separate ESG Performance Report
(f) Fairness between our shareholders
Our aim to act fairly as between members of the Group
Our Directors seek to act fairly between the interests of all Matters considered by our Directors include:
shareholders – major and retail shareholders alike. There is
–Annual general meeting
regular and constructive dialogue with shareholders to
communicate our strategy and performance to receive investor –Annual governance meeting
views and perspectives, promote investor confidence, ensure
–Capital markets days and meet the management events
our continued access to capital and inform our Directors'
decision-making on strategic matters. As they do so, our –Group and individual Director shareholder meetings
Directors navigate and weigh up a range of shareholder
opinion to arrive at decisions that support the long-term –Investor and analysts perception surveys
success of the company
–Investor relations plan
Papers/information relevant to this duty are normally submitted
–Remuneration policy proposals
by the CEO, CFO, President, Global Affairs, Head of Investor
Relations and the Company Secretary for input, challenge and For more specific details see our shareholder engagement and
decision or awareness by our Directors shareholder information disclosures on pages 122 and 295 to
314
125Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Continuous engagement and key decisions continued
Key decisions
In its decision-making, the Board focuses on GSK's priorities as a pure biopharma company with strong momentum and big
ambitions, whilst balancing the interests of our stakeholders. Selected examples of some of the key decisions taken by the Board in
2023 and January 2024 to drive our purpose, momentum and strategy include:
Stakeholder groups and other
Decision How the Board/Committee regarded stakeholder interests section 172 duties considered
Upgraded ambition for In June 2021, GSK articulated to shareholders an outlook for the period to 2026 and Stakeholders: Patients,
growth 2031. Given GSK’s improved performance and strong momentum as a focused employees and
biopharma company, the Board and Audit & Risk Committee agreed that an investors
The Board considered
update to investor expectations was appropriate Other s172 duties:
upgrades to the new and
Our long-term results,
long-term ambitions for GSK,
In January 2024, following thorough review, GSK published new upgraded outlooks workforce, fairness between
through investing for the
to the market for 2021-26 for sales to grow more than 7% and adjusted profit by shareholders and business
future and delivering
more than 11% on a CAGR basis, and by 2031 to deliver sales of more than £38 relationships
attractive returns to
billion. This represents an increase of £5 billion versus the estimate given in 2021
shareholders
and a marked sales acceleration. This also provided clear visibility to shareholders,
our people and other key stakeholders of the building blocks of future growth for
the company
Progressive dividend The Board recognises the importance of dividends to shareholders. In December, Stakeholders:
policy the Audit & Risk Committee and the Board considered how GSK's progressive Investors, patients and our
dividend policy should best be applied in line with the agreed capital allocation workforce
The Board and Audit & Risk
priorities of the Group and its investment strategy for growth alongside the Other s172 duties:
Committee considered the
sustainability of the dividend Our long-term results,
application of the progressive
dividend policy in line with workforce and business
capital allocation priorities This resulted in an increased dividend of 16p for Q4 2023 (Q4 2022: 13.75p) and relationships and reputation,
58p for the full year 2023 (2022: 61.25p). The expected dividend for 2024 is 60p and fairness between our
shareholders
Capital allocation The Board approved an updated capital allocation framework, with the priority of Stakeholders: Patients,
framework investing in the business, focussed towards development of the pipeline through employees and
both the organic R&D portfolio, and targeted business development. This will be investors
The Board considered an
achieved through an increased focus on ROI for these investments Other s172 duties:
updated capital allocation
Our long-term results,
framework to best support
Ultimately, the Board determined that the updated framework would continue to workforce, fairness between
growth and sustainable
support investing in growth and delivering sustainable returns to shareholders, shareholders and business
returns to shareholders
underpinned by a strong balance sheet. It is also consistent with GSK's strategic relationships
priorities and supports the company's commitment to deliver long-term profitable
growth
Business development The Board, with support from the Science Committee and commercial reviews for Stakeholders: Patients,
late stage assets, reviewed many business development opportunities during the employees and
The Science Committee
year. Those leading to concluded transactions included: investors
considered the scientific
Other s172 duties:
merits of business
development opportunities – licence agreements with Hansoh Pharma for two antibody-drug conjugates with Our long-term results,
and where relevant for late potential across several solid tumour indications to support our work in workforce and business
stage assets commercial developing cancer treatments relationships
reviews, prior to the Board's – agreement with Chongqing Zhifei Biological Products to co-promote Shingrix in
review and approval China, which will significantly extend the availability of the vaccine and support
patient access
– acquisitions of BELLUS Health and Aiolos Bio to expand and strengthen GSK's
respiratory portfolio
These deals were considered in the context of their potential to help GSK deliver
transformational medicines to patients and drive growth through accelerating the
pipeline
126Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Continuous engagement and key decisions continued
Stakeholder groups and other
Decision How the Board/Committee regarded stakeholder interests section 172 duties considered
Artificial intelligence The Board reviewed and provided feedback on the strategy to integrate and Stakeholders: Patients and
and workforce culture responsibly scale AI across the business to accelerate the pipeline, amplify employees
performance and drive productivity Other s172 duties:
The Board considered the Our long-term results,
approach to and impact of
The Board recognises the significant potential of AI, particularly in the context of workforce
adopting AI on an end-to-
interpreting datasets to develop medicines with a higher probability of success. and business relationships
end basis across the business
However, with support from the Audit & Risk Committee, the Board also considered
the associated risks of AI, as described on pages 133 and 134. The Board approved
the establishment of the AI Governance Council, co-chaired by the General Counsel
and CDTO to help manage these risks across the Group
Close attention was also paid to the impact of adopting AI on the workforce,
including wellbeing gains enabled through increased efficiency and the benefits of
further upskilling and building AI capabilities
Low-carbon Ventolin During the year, the Corporate Responsibility Committee endorsed and the Board Stakeholders: Patients,
strategy reviewed and approved plans to progress the transition from a metered dose employees and
inhaler to new-generation low-carbon inhalers, to significantly contribute to GSK's investors
The Corporate Responsibility
carbon reduction targets for 2030 and 2045. Phase III trials will begin in 2024 and, if Other s172 duties:
Committee and Board
successful, the programme has the potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Our long-term results,
reviewed plans for
from use of the inhaler by approximately 90% workforce and business
progression to the next phase
relationships
of development of the low-
carbon Ventolin programme The Board and Corporate Responsibility Committee carefully considered the needs
of patients who rely on Ventolin, the complexity of the clinical development process
as well as the investment required in new manufacturing facilities. If successful, the
programme could lead to regulatory submissions in 2025, supporting the health of
asthma and COPD patients and making a significant positive impact on GSK's
transition to a more environmentally sustainable future
127Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Board committee reports
We discussed with management the steps needed to help
Corporate Responsibility Committee report
leverage this leadership position, in conjunction with the support
and expertise of the Science Committee. This included growing
Dr Anne Beal our business development strategy and improving pathogen
surveillance capabilities. Given AMR is an urgent public threat
Corporate Responsibility Committee
and stakeholders are increasingly interested in GSK’s approach
I am pleased to present this report, which is my second as Chair to it, we agreed that it was appropriate to include AMR as one
of the Corporate Responsibility Committee (the Committee). of our ESG Performance Rating metrics for the first time.
This is the first full year for GSK operating as a global Environment
biopharma company, with a renewed purpose to unite science,
Carbon reduction plan: There is a very strong case for making
technology and talent to get ahead of disease together. To
the transition to low-carbon inhalers. Salbutamol is an essential
deliver this purpose, the company needs to consider ESG
rescue/reliever medicine, and GSK's Ventolin (salbutamol)
impacts across everything it does. The Committee oversees the
metered dose inhaler (MDI) is used by 35 million patients
six ESG focus areas that address what is most material to the
globally. Use of the inhaler, due to the high global warming
business and the issues that matter the most to stakeholders.
potential (GWP) of the current propellent, accounts for half of
As we worked through our programme of activities this year, my GSK’s carbon footprint. Management updated the Committee
Committee’s focus was to ask management fundamental about developing proposed plans to transition the inhaler to a
questions concerning: next-generation low-carbon propellant which, if successful, will
significantly contribute to GSK's carbon reduction targets for
–how well the company is performing against and making an 2030 and 2045. However, developing this low-carbon inhaler is
impact on the six ESG areas embedded in the company’s complex and involves clinical and non-clinical programmes, as
strategy well as establishing new manufacturing facilities.
–how this supports our sustainable performance and long- Having examined these and other key considerations behind
term growth investing in a low-carbon transition programme – which could
–how further improvements can be identified and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the inhaler by 90% – we
implemented endorsed management’s R&D MDI transition programme
investment case to the Board, submitted after the read-outs
To support this, we undertook a number of ESG performance from latest early clinical data had been received and
deep-dives. evaluated. This supported the Board’s decision in November to
progress to phase III trials in 2024. If these trials are successful,
Access
they could lead to regulatory submissions in 2025.
The Committee reviewed progress towards the company’s aim
Nature plan review: The Committee received an update on
to improve the health of 2.5 billion people by 2030 through
current performance against the company’s Nature positive
ensuring access to our vaccines and medicines, including
goal by 2030, which will be achieved by reducing the
reaching 1.3 billion people in lower-middle income countries
company’s environmental impacts across water, waste and
(L/LMICs). In particular, we discussed:
materials, and biodiversity and by investing in protecting and
–the flexible and tailored operating model to driving access in restoring nature. The Committee was satisfied that these Nature
L/LMICs, depending on need goals and targets remain appropriate and industry leading.
–working with partners with the right capabilities and We also noted that standards for assessing and verifying
geographical footprint to deliver interventions, which may companies' nature approach continued to strengthen. We were
include donations, affordable supply and licensing, to make pleased that GSK was actively helping to shape this
sure people have access to the vaccines and medicines they environment as a source of competitive advantage. Science
need Based Targets Network for Nature (SBTN) set the first science-
based targets for a nature framework to validate companies’
–investing £1 billion over 10 years in our Global Health R&D
nature targets, which was similar to the regulatory approach
pipeline and contributing to building resilient health systems
previously adopted for climate-based targets. Given the relative
Global Health & Security maturity of our Nature positive programme, the company is
pleased to be selected in the first group of 17 companies
Anti-Microbial Resistance (AMR): The Committee reviewed the
globally to go through the target validation process, to accredit
external AMR landscape and trends, which are a major threat
our nature targets when the SBTN methodology was finalised.
globally, and considered the company’s holistic and innovative
Additionally, GSK has also committed to disclosing our
investment approach to addressing this AMR threat. We were
arrangements against the Taskforce on Nature-related
pleased to note that this approach has resulted in the largest
Financial Disclosures framework in our 2025 Annual Report.
relevant AMR vaccine R&D pipeline in the industry.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Delivery against People DEI aspiration: The Committee heard
from the Chief People Officer (CPO) on progress over the
company’s workstreams to drive increased leadership diversity,
build a diverse talent pipeline and foster an inclusive culture.
We were pleased with the excellent progress that had been
made to date and discussed the challenges and opportunities
to maintain future progress in these areas.
128Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Board committee reports continued
Clinical trial diversity: The Chief Scientific Officer (CSO)
Science Committee report
outlined the approach to broadening clinical trial diversity and
how this connects with our patient impact. The Committee
strongly agreed that the company’s clinical trials must be Dr Hal Dietz
accessible and inclusive to ensure our clinical development
Science Committee
programmes reflect the diversity of the patient populations
impacted by the disease under study including, but not limited I am pleased to present my first report as Chair of the Science
to, age, race, ethnicity, sex and gender. In doing so, we noted Committee (the Committee) on our activities during 2023.
the importance of reflecting epidemiological profile rather than
I joined the Committee in January 2022, and succeeded
census profile as the benchmark from which to plan
Dr Jesse Goodman as Chair on 1 January 2023.
appropriate patient representation and of working through
community groups to build trust, awareness and participation in Jesse had been Chair of the Committee since it was created
clinical trials. seven years ago and made an outstanding contribution to
defining and implementing the Committee’s role. He remains an
ESG Performance Rating
important member of the Committee and offers vital insights to
The ESG Performance Rating (Rating) helps us integrate ESG our work.
into the delivery of our strategy and allows us to measure and
The Committee’s key activities in 2023 were split into three
verify the progress we are making. This is the second year that
important areas:
the Rating has been used and the Committee continues to
oversee its evolution to make sure it meets the expectations of –pipeline reviews: monitoring of GSK’s pipeline
key stakeholders.
–business development: undertaking technical reviews and
We discussed with management the rationale for removing one assurance of the underlying science of potential business
of the ESG metrics relating to Access. We also scrutinised how development transactions
the new AMR metric was formulated, reviewed, and set, to
–scientific deep-dives: discussing and analysing the key
make sure that it was a suitably stretching and strategically
scientific and technology themes which drive the company’s
relevant metric. We were joined by the CPO and CSO to discuss
R&D strategy
the status of the five DEI metrics and any other measures
needed to progress performance against these metrics. Pipeline progress
Separately, the Committee was kept informed of the work being During 2023 the Committee continued to monitor the progress
led by the CFO to assure the data underlying the ESG metrics of R&D. Our CSO, Dr Tony Wood, provided regular updates on
and Rating which has been overseen by the Audit & Risk progress across the company’s four therapeutic areas:
Committee. infectious diseases, HIV, respiratory/immunology and oncology.
We monitored and evaluated the company’s progress against A particular pipeline highlight during 2023 was the launch of
these metrics and the Rating at the half and full year. We then Arexvy, GSK’s world-first RSV vaccine for older adults. During
recommended to the Board publishing a final 'on track' ESG the year, the vaccine gained approvals in the US, EU, Japan
Performance Rating alongside the other ESG disclosures in this and several other countries. Arexvy marked a turning point in
Annual Report and our ESG Performance Report. efforts to reduce the burden of the RSV, a respiratory virus
which has evaded prevention or therapeutic advances for over
For more details, see page 46 of the Strategic report and in the
60 years. It also heralds the next wave of vaccine innovation at
ESG Performance Report – both of which are available at
GSK.
gsk.com.
In oncology, Jemperli, in combination with chemotherapy,
Dr Anne Beal
received approval in the US and EU as the first new frontline
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair
treatment option in decades for patients with dMMR/MSI-H
27 February 2024
primary advanced or recurrent endometrial cancer. These
approvals reinforced the potential of Jemperli to redefine
cancer treatment as the backbone of immuno-oncology
therapy.
A number of other key regulatory milestones were also achieved
during the year:
–Shingrix vaccine for shingles approved for people at risk over
18 in Japan and positive data from first efficacy trial in China
–Apretude, a long-acting preventative treatment for HIV,
approved as the first and only HIV prevention option in
Europe
–Ojjaara/Omjjara, approved in the US, EU and UK as the first
and only treatment for both newly diagnosed and previously
treated myelofibrosis patients with anaemia
–gonorrhoea vaccine candidate received US FDA fast-track
designation
129Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Board committee reports continued
The Committee was pleased with the progress made to Deep-dives into innovative science
accelerate the pipeline during the year, both in terms of
investment in the late-stage pipeline to drive growth, as well as During the year the Committee has continued to undertake
through rigorous decision-making with the early stage pipeline scientific deep-dives into some of the highly innovative
to maximise its potential impact on patients. technologies currently being explored by the CSO and his team.
Deep-dives undertaken in 2023 included, but were not limited
R&D leadership changes to, both liver disease and oligonucleotide strategy.
Continuing to accelerate the pipeline relies on attracting the GSK’s expertise in infectious disease, immunology and human
best people and fostering a culture that is ambitious for genetics has driven research into chronic hepatitis B. In 2023,
patients, accountable for impact and always does the right new data presented for bepirovirsen has improved
thing. That is why the Committee was pleased with the R&D understanding of the heterogeneous nature of hepatitis B
leadership changes made this year, including creating three infections. Insights – from the B-Clear and B-Together phase
dedicated Research Units: vaccines and infectious diseases, IIb trials for bepirovirsen – will help GSK progress towards a
respiratory and immunology, and oncology. HIV research comprehensive functional cure for people living with chronic
operates as part of our global specialist HIV company, ViiV hepatitis B, a common cause of chronic liver disease.
Healthcare.
Our deep-dive into oligonucleotide-based therapeutic
These changes mean the company can better focus on its core strategies positions GSK to achieve leadership in this field.
therapeutic areas and more easily identify the targets that will Oligonucleotides have a unique ability to address a wide range
have the best outcomes for patients. Supporting these new of genomic targets across many therapeutic areas, which
teams is a single research technologies organisation, which means they offer enormous potential to help patients with
brings together platform and data groups to integrate diseases that have historically been difficult to treat.
technology more effectively across GSK's workflow.
The company’s collaboration with Wave Life Sciences, initiated
Business development transactions in 2022, brought together Wave’s PRISMTM platform and GSK’s
Since the demerger, the CSO and his team have worked hard to expertise in genetics and genomics to progress up to eight
accelerate business development to complement GSK’s organic preclinical programmes. The collaboration also granted GSK
pipeline. This called upon our Committee to devote nearly twice the exclusive licence for Wave’s preclinical programme to treat
as much time in our meetings to critically vet business alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, complementing GSK’s own
development proposals and transactions, compared with last clinical-phase oligonucleotides, including bepirovirsen.
year.
Committee changes
Transactions reviewed by the Committee during the year Since I became Chair, there have been no changes to the
include: Committee’s composition during 2023. Work is underway by the
BELLUS Health: the acquisition of BELLUS, a late-stage Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee to refresh
biopharmaceutical company working to better the lives of the Board’s scientific expertise including a successor to Dr Jesse
patients suffering from refractory chronic cough (RCC). The Goodman, who is due to retire from the Board in 2025. I look
acquisition provided GSK with access to camlipixant, a forward to providing an update on this next year.
potential best-in-class treatment in phase III development for
Dr Hal Dietz
the first-line treatment of RCC. This acquisition aligned to GSK’s
Science Committee Chair
expertise in and prioritisation of respiratory medicines.
27 February 2024
Hansoh Pharma: two exclusive licence agreements for
antibody-drug conjugates: HS-20089, with best-in-class
potential in ovarian and endometrial cancer and HS-20093,
with promising initial clinical activity in lung cancer with the
potential to address unmet medical need in broader solid
tumour indications.
Aiolos Bio: acquisition of Aiolos, which closed in February 2024,
adds AIO-001 to GSK's respiratory biologics portfolio. AIO-001 is
a phase II-ready long-acting antibody that could redefine the
standard of care for asthma patients, with dosing every six
months. It also has the potential to expand the company's
reach to a broader range of asthma patients.
Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals and Janssen Pharmaceuticals:
the transfer of exclusive worldwide rights to further the
development and commercialisation of an investigational
therapeutic to treat chronic hepatitis B. GSK plans to evaluate
this drug in a sequential regimen with bepirovirsen (GSK’s
investigational antisense oligonucleotide) for the treatment of
chronic hepatitis B. The transaction has the potential to
redefine the treatment paradigm for chronic hepatitis B by
enabling more patients to achieve functional cure.
As a Committee, we are confident that these transactions have
strong scientific justification and look forward to seeing them
develop in the next few years.
130Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Board committee reports continued
Nominations & Corporate Governance Board and GLT diversity
Committee report We are committed to the diversity of our Board and its
committees, just as GSK is committed to equal opportunities for
Jonathan Symonds all employees at every level of the company. The Board and
management seek to support and encourage a diverse and
Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee
inclusive culture throughout the company.
I am pleased to present my fifth report as Chair of the
An effective Board includes a range and balance of skills,
Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee (the
experience and knowledge as well as diversity of ethnicity,
Committee).
gender, sexual orientation, professional and social-economic
Evolving the Board and pipeline of talent background, disability, age and independence, with individuals
who are prepared to challenge each other collaboratively. This
In my Corporate governance statement on page 114, I discussed
mix is complemented by a diversity of personal Board
the important Board appointment processes that have been
attributes, including character, intellect, judgement, honesty
undertaken recently. Julie Brown, our new CFO, was appointed
and courage.
in September 2022 and joined the Board in 2023. Wendy
Becker, our new Remuneration Committee Chair designate, was The Committee is responsible for developing measurable
appointed and joined the Board in the second half of 2023. A objectives, in line with the relevant regulatory and best practice
transition process is underway to enable Wendy to succeed Urs targets, and monitoring their progress – which is part of
Rohner as Remuneration Committee Chair at the close of the implementing the Board’s diversity policy (Policy). This includes
2024 AGM. These appointments are tailored to the biopharma gender and ethnicity diversity targets, and applying it to our
company we now are. Board committees. As a minimum, we seek to align our Policy
objectives with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), FTSE
The Committee seeks to follow best practice in all the searches
Women Leaders Review and Parker Review diversity targets
it makes and appointments it recommends to the Board,
(Regulatory and Best Practice Targets) and ensure that they
agreeing the criteria for each role, the most appropriate diverse
are consistent with our public DEI aspirations. We currently
interview panel and considering a comprehensive and diverse
meet or exceed our policy objectives and the Regulatory and
longlist of candidates. Shortlisted candidates are interviewed
Best Practice Targets shown on the next page.
and assessed against the chosen criteria. Due diligence is then
undertaken before the Committee makes its final Board and GLT diversity data collection
recommendation. Executive search firms are appointed
This year, diversity data has been gathered directly on a self-
according to the company’s procurement policy and based on
identified basis as follows:
their expertise relative to each role.
–Board members: using a questionnaire
The Committee only engages search firms that are signatories
to the Voluntary Code of Conduct of Executive Search Firms on –GLT members: individual election held on GSK's HR database
gender diversity and best practice.
All diversity data published in the following section of the report
The Committee worked with a number of executive search firms are as at 31 December 2023 and the date of publication. We
in 2023. They also provided additional consultancy services to also continue to oversee the developing pipeline of direct
the company: Korn Ferry (general recruitment, executive search reports to the GLT by gender and from ethnically diverse
and assessment services and other HR-related services); Egon backgrounds.
Zehnder (executive search, assessment and coaching services
to specific senior executives); Russell Reynolds (executive Full details of GSK’s representation of women and ethnically
search services). diverse leaders is covered on page 53, as part of the diversity of
our global workforce. The pleasing progress against our DEI
The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest commitments, including gender and ethnicity, is illustrated in
and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against our ESG Performance Report on gsk.com. This good progress
such conflicts. I look forward to reporting on the Committee's has been boosted since introducing a DEI measure in 2022 as
continued work and progress to evolve the Board further in next part of the Annual bonus arrangements for our Executive
year's report. Directors and other GLT members.
The Committee also continues to review our diverse talent and Sir Jonathan Symonds
succession pipelines and the development plans for key
Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee Chair
management roles and their successors. During the year, we
27 February 2024
undertook a deep-dive of the emerging senior talent that the
GLT had identified – people who were exceeding expectations
or exceptionally talented, and who have the potential to take
on a GLT role in the future. This included reviewing the strategic
approach to talent development planning. The Board seeks to
meet with these individuals at employee receptions and
through other Board engagement opportunities.
131Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Board committee reports continued
Diversity, equity and inclusion
Ethnicity Gender
% female composition1
50
40
30
20
10
0
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2024
(current) (post-
AGM)
l Ethnically diverse: 17% l Current/historic
l White: 83% l Expected
(1) Target female representation on the Board is 40%. Data from the GSK Annual Report published in the first quarter of each year. Current female
representation is 42% and includes one of the very few all-female Executive Boards running a FTSE 100 company. This is expected to rise to 45% in May
2024, after Urs Rohner retires from the Board
Board and GLT diversity objectives
At least: Status of objective Performance
– 40% of Board positions held by women Met 42%
Two Directors
– one woman in a senior Board position (CEO, CFO, SID and/or Chair) by the end of 2025 Exceeded
(CEO and CFO)
– 40% of GLT positions held by women Exceeded 50%
– one Board Director is ethnically diverse Exceeded Two Directors
– one GLT member ethnically diverse by the end of 2025 Met One GLT member
FCA UK Listing Rule diversity reporting
Number of senior
positions on the Board Percentage of
Number of Board Percentage of the (CEO, CFO, SID and Number in Executive executive
members Board Chair) Management management
Gender identity or sex
Men 7 58% 2 6 50 %
Women 5 42% 2 6 50 %
Not specified/preferred not to say — — — — —
Ethnic background
White British or other White (including
minority white groups) 10 83.3% 4 10 83.3%
Mixed/Multiple Ethnic Groups — — — — —
Asian/Asian British 1 8.3% — 1 8.3%
Black/African/Caribbean/Black British 1 8.3% — — —
Other ethnic group, including Arab — — — — —
Not specified/preferred not to say — — — 1 8.3%
132Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Board committee reports continued
Audit & Risk Committee report Technology
Data privacy and ethics: This is a rapidly evolving principal risk
for the Committee’s oversight. The number of privacy laws and
Charles Bancroft
regulations, often based on the EU General Data Protection
Audit & Risk Committee Regulations, is increasing in a number of territories around the
world. Consequently, the Committee was interested to further
I am pleased to present this report, which is my third as Chair of
understand the regulatory approaches being adopted in some
the Audit & Risk Committee (the Committee), and in the
of our biggest markets, including the US, India and China, and
following pages I aim to share insights into the activities
how they may affect GSK’s operations, including our R&D
undertaken or overseen by the Committee during the year.
operations.
2023 was GSK’s first full year as a focused global biopharma
The Committee receives regular reports on the robust and
company. The Committee reviewed key operational features
integrated governance framework GSK operates to monitor and
and risks of the governance platform that underpin our purpose
govern the use of data generally. GSK's framework is made up
to unite science, technology and talent to get ahead of disease
of specialist governance boards that include representative
together. I am also pleased to report on progress against the
members from relevant internal functions. This framework has
Committee's expanded remit to oversee and review ESG data
been further augmented with a team from the Legal and
assurance.
Compliance function with expertise to advise on global digital,
This Committee continues to have primary oversight for the privacy and cyber security matters.
Zantac litigation through regular legally privileged updates and
The Committee discussed the tenets of the new enhanced
review of the related accounting, disclosure and
flexible data privacy model being introduced. This is expected
communication requirements. The Committee also reviews the
to comprise global privacy principles and standardised global
current indicative timeline of cases. I report and summarise the
controls meeting the EU standards. The reward would be
key matters for the Board for its awareness, input or decision.
flexibility to adopt different standards where local laws are
We continue to defend all claims brought vigorously based on
incompatible with GSK's standardised global controls, provided
the science.
they meet GSK's global privacy principles.
Based on the work the Committee has done or inspected, GSK
More details of the measures taken during the year to mitigate
continues to exhibit a strong compliance culture, with a
this risk are described on page 60.
consistent tone and engagement from the top that runs
throughout the organisation. Our financial reporting and Information and cyber security: This is a principal risk for GSK
controls framework remains robust and required no and an area that remains a standing agenda item which is
fundamental changes during the year. discussed at each of our scheduled meetings.
Science The Chief Digital and Technology Officer (CDTO), Chief
Information and Security Officer (CISO) and Chief Compliance
Strategic vaccine partnership in China: In Q3 2023, the
Officer (CCO) present updates on information and cyber
company entered into an exclusive agreement with Chongqing
security, as well as assessments of the status of their associated
Zhifei Biological Products, Ltd (Zhifei) to co-promote Shingrix in
key risk indicators.
China to support accelerated market penetration for our
innovative vaccine. The Committee scrutinised this The CDTO’s skills and experience, especially those related to
arrangement before it was concluded. A significant amount of cyber security, are set out on page 112. Our CISO has spent his
time and resources were devoted to due diligence of this career building and leading technology teams across several
arrangement, and key controls were introduced to ensure our functional areas, including cyber security and IT infrastructure
compliance expectations would be met to mitigate risks. for digital communications and healthcare companies. He was
also responsible for establishing the cyber security function for
The Committee was satisfied that the ongoing governance
Haleon plc prior to its demerger.
framework – with monthly reviews and monitoring
arrangements – was appropriate. Experienced compliance Our CCO focuses on ensuring that a consistent and cohesive
personnel were also allocated to support the partnership. approach to information and cyber security operates across all
aspects of the business and enterprise risk management. The
Chief Patient Officer: A new role of Chief Patient Officer was
CCO is also responsible for the Risk Analytics and Monitoring
established from the beginning of 2024. The Committee
organisation. He has previous experience in creating a
assessed the controls and governance arrangements for this
dedicated Global Risk Office that combines enterprise risk
new role. The Chief Patient Officer's primary role is to provide
management and reporting activities for GSK.
medical leadership as part of one overarching GSK asset and
disease strategy. The Chief Patient Officer reports to the Chief During the year, the Committee reviewed progress against the
Commercial Officer to ensure patients treated with GSK first full year of our updated multi-year Cyber Security Plan
products benefit from robust, compliant scientific information, in (Plan) which was benchmarked against the National Institute of
line with our commitment to patients. Standards and Technology Cyber Security Framework (NIST-
CSF). At the end of 2023, to help validate how the company’s
We also satisfied ourselves that key areas of medical ethics,
capabilities had improved, the Committee examined the results
safety and execution of clinical trials have clear lines of
of an internal NIST assessment that was undertaken jointly by
escalation to our Chief Medical Officer. This further enhanced
our Tech and Audit & Assurance functions. In 2024, building on
the company’s Internal Control Framework and Independent
this assessment, the Committee will review the scheduled
Business Monitoring protocols.
external NIST review by specialist independent cyber experts.
I look forward to providing an update on the results of this
independent review in my report next year.
133Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Board committee reports continued
The Committee has also been closely following the ESG data assurance
development, finalisation and introduction of the Securities and
The Committee oversaw the creation and implementation in Q3
Exchange Commission’s (SEC) new cyber security rules (Rules)
2023 of a new dedicated ESG data assurance hub in our
effective from the end of 2023. We are satisfied that the
Finance organisation. This formally established a consistent
company, as a foreign private issuer, has taken the necessary
approach to governance, processes and controls which have
governance steps to ensure compliance with these
been developed to further improve assurance of ESG data in
requirements.
support of the company’s performance against key ESG metrics.
The Committee assesses the adequacy of GSK's insurance risk Meanwhile, our Corporate Responsibility Committee, on behalf
coverage arrangements annually, including the information and of the Board, continues to oversee ESG strategy, performance
cyber security risk, as part of its insurance risk programme assessment and reporting.
review. I then communicate the Committee’s recommendation
The hub's initial focus is on environmental data. Later, as its
to the Board before implementation.
processes and capabilities develop, the hub will look at social
Also on our agenda was cyber security training for GLT – which and governance areas too. Soon the Committee will also
included cyber security simulation exercises and learnings – oversee the development and implementation of technology
and for the wider workforce. We discussed mandatory training solutions to automate information gathering and to supplement
for new joiners and regular phishing-simulation exercises. the level of process and control standards that surround ESG
performance data.
I highlighted previously the relevant cyber security expertise my
Board colleague, Dr Vishal Sikka, brings to our deliberations. Looking forward, the Committee will continue to review
We are looking to further strengthen our oversight in this area upcoming regulations that might affect our future ESG
by running bespoke cyber incident training sessions for all assurance and reporting obligations, which have been
Directors. Their cyber-related experience is included in the highlighted by the hub’s horizon-scanning activities. In
Board biographies on pages 108 to 111. particular, the Committee discussed the initial results of the
ongoing impact assessment that is underway for the Corporate
Further details of the other measures taken during the year to
Sustainability Reporting Directive. This directive could become
mitigate this risk are described on page 60.
partially effective from our 2025 reporting year, and would be
Artificial Intelligence (AI): The rapid advancement of AI, in fully effective at a consolidated reporting level for GSK by 2028.
particular generative technology and its potential application We are also aware that reporting arrangements to reflect the
across the company, presents significant opportunities to drive published SEC Climate regulations are expected to become
innovation, growth and productivity and, in doing so, to effective from the 2026 financial year.
accelerate our purpose. To this end, the Board is reviewing
Internal control framework
opportunities to scale use of AI for potential competitive
advantage. Balanced against this is the awareness that there is The Board recognises its obligation to present a fair, balanced
a lack of harmonisation from new and emerging regulations and understandable assessment of GSK’s current position and
that govern ethical and responsible use of AI. These new trends prospects. It is accountable for evaluating and approving the
may impact the risk profile of our Research practices, Scientific effectiveness of GSK’s internal controls, including financial,
and patient engagement, Data ethics and privacy, and operational and compliance controls, and risk management
Information and cyber security principal risks, and could have a processes.
future impact on GSK’s value chain. Therefore, these
We ensure the reliability of our financial reporting, and
developments were being monitored very closely by
compliance with laws and regulations, through our internal
management and the Committee.
control framework. This is a comprehensive enterprise-wide risk
To this end, the Board approved the establishment of the AI management model, which supports the Board to identify,
Governance Council (Council), co-chaired by the General evaluate and manage the Group’s principal and emerging risks,
Counsel and CDTO and comprising cross-functional experts. In as required by the FRC’s Code. The framework is designed to
particular, the Council is assessing business activities against manage the risk of GSK not achieving its business objectives.
the current risk environment through our internal control
A fit-for-purpose framework – complemented by our corporate
framework. Importantly, the Council is fully connected to the key
culture and Speak Up processes – ensures that the risks
data management boards for data ethics and privacy and
associated with our business activities are actively and
information and cyber security. I am pleased to report that the
effectively controlled in line with our agreed risk appetite. We
Council has approved and implemented a suite of written
believe GSK’s framework provides reasonable, but not absolute,
standards, controls for adopting new AI tools, and training
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
tailored for developers, procurers and users of AI.
The Board mandates the Group’s Risk Oversight and
The Committee and our auditor have a shared goal to leverage
Compliance Council (ROCC) of senior leaders to support the
technology as appropriate. We were particularly interested in
Committee in overseeing risk management and internal control
and discussed with the auditor how they can use AI to deliver
activities. It also provides the business with a framework for risk
increased effectiveness and efficiency in their audit. We are
management and escalation of significant risks. Risk
also keen to better understand the opportunities for GSK to use
management and compliance boards (RMCBs) across the
scalable AI-enabled innovations to improve the speed and
Group promote the ‘tone from the top’ and establish our risk
performance of its tracking and detection capabilities. This is a
culture, and ensure effective oversight of internal controls and
key part of staying ahead of the increasingly sophisticated
risk management processes.
threats to the Group and our third parties. This will be an area
we continue to focus on.
134Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Board committee reports continued
Each principal risk has an assigned risk owner, drawn from As a Committee we receive regular reports from principal risk
senior management, who is accountable for managing the owners, Compliance and A&A on areas of significant risk to the
principal risk with oversight from a GLT member, which includes Group and on related internal controls. These reports assess the
setting and implementing risk mitigation plans. Risk owners internal control environment within each principal risk area,
report quarterly on their respective risk management approach including enhancements to strengthen controls. Once we have
and progress at the ROCC and the appropriate Board considered these reports, the Committee reports annually to the
committee. Our Compliance function assists the ROCC and Board on the effectiveness of GSK’s internal controls.
RMCBs. Compliance is responsible for advancing enterprise-
In 2023, through the authority delegated to the Committee, the
wide risk management and for developing risk-based and
Board conducted a robust assessment of the Group’s principal
ethically sound working practices. It also actively promotes
risks. This assessment in line with the FRC’s Code included
ethical behaviours by enabling all employees to operate in line
consideration of the nature and extent of risk the Board is
with our culture and comply with applicable laws and
willing to take to achieve GSK’s strategic objectives.
regulations.
The Board, via the Committee, also oversaw the effectiveness of
Our Audit & Assurance (A&A) function provides independent
our internal control environment and risk management
assurance to senior management and the Board on the
processes across the Group for the whole year, up to the
effectiveness of risk management Group-wide, in line with an
approval date of this Annual Report.
agreed assurance plan. This helps senior management and the
Board to meet their oversight and advisory responsibilities to More detail about the review of the Group’s risk management
fulfil GSK’s strategic objectives and build trust with patients and approach is further discussed in the Risk management section
other stakeholders. A&A has a dual reporting line to the CFO of the strategic report on pages 57 to 76.
and the Committee.
The management of each principal risk is explained in ‘Principal
risks and uncertainties’ on pages 284 to 294. The Group’s
viability is discussed in the Strategic report on page 76.
135Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Board committee reports continued
Significant issues relating to the financial statements
In considering GSK’s quarterly financial results announcements and the financial results in the 2023 Annual Report, the Committee
reviewed the significant issues and management judgements in determining those results. It reviewed management papers setting
out the key areas of risk, actions taken to quantify the effects of the relevant issues, and judgements made by management on the
appropriate accounting required to address those issues in the financial statements.
The significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 are set out in the
following table, with a summary of the financial outcomes where appropriate. The Committee and the external auditor have
discussed the significant issues addressed by the Committee during the year and the areas of particular audit focus, as described in
the Independent Auditor’s Report on pages 166 to 179.
Significant issues considered by the Committee
in relation to the financial statements How the issue was addressed by the Committee
Going concern basis for the preparation The Committee considered the outcome of management’s half-yearly and year-end
of the financial statements reviews of current and forecast net debt positions and the various financing facilities
and options available to the Group. The Committee also considered management’s
review of the impacts of both the current economic environment and climate
change. Following consideration of these assessments, which included stress testing
and viability scenarios, sources of liquidity and funding, forecasts and estimates, the
Committee confirmed that the application of the going concern basis for the
preparation of the financial statements continued to be appropriate.
Revenue recognition, including returns The Committee reviewed management’s approach to the timing of recognition of
and rebates (RAR) accruals revenue and accruals for customer returns and rebates. The RAR accrual for US
Commercial Operations was £6 billion at 31 December 2023 and the Committee
reviewed the basis on which the accrual had been made and concurred with
management’s judgements on the amounts involved. A fuller description of the
process operated in US Commercial Operations in determining the level of accrual
necessary is set out in ‘Critical accounting policies’ on pages 191 and 192.
Provisions for legal matters, including The Committee received detailed reports on actual and potential litigation from both
investigations into the Group’s internal and external legal counsel including the Zantac litigation, together with a
commercial practices number of detailed updates on investigations into the Group’s commercial practices.
Management outlined the levels of provision and corresponding disclosure
considered necessary in respect of potential adverse litigation outcomes and also
those areas where it was not yet possible to determine if a provision was necessary,
or its amount. At 31 December 2023, the provision for legal matters was £0.3 billion;
see Note 32 to the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’ for more details.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions The Committee considered current tax disputes and areas of potential risk and
concurred with management’s judgement on the levels of tax contingencies
required. At 31 December 2023, a tax payable liability of £0.6 billion, including
provisions for uncertain tax positions, was recognised on the Group’s balance sheet.
Impairments of intangible assets The Committee reviewed management’s process for reviewing and testing goodwill
and other intangible assets for potential impairment. The Committee accepted
management’s judgements on the intangible assets that required writing down and
the resulting impairment losses of £421 million in 2023. See Note 20 to the financial
statements, ‘Other intangible assets’ for more details.
Valuation of contingent consideration The Committee considered management’s judgement that it was necessary to
in relation to ViiV Healthcare increase the liability to pay contingent consideration primarily as a result of updated
exchange rate assumptions as well as increases in sales forecasts and the unwind of
the discount. After cash payments of nearly £1.1 billion in the year, at 31 December
2023, the Group's balance sheet included a contingent consideration liability of
£5.7 billion in relation to ViiV Healthcare. See Note 33 to the financial statements,
‘Contingent consideration liabilities’ for more details.
ViiV Healthcare put option The Committee reviewed and agreed the accounting for the Pfizer put option
and concurred with management’s judgement on the valuation of the put option
of £0.8 billion at 31 December 2023.
136Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Board committee reports continued
Effectiveness and quality of external audit Auditor’s reappointment
process External auditor
The Committee is committed to making sure that GSK receives External auditor appointment
a high-quality and effective external audit. In evaluating
Last tender May–December 2016
Deloitte’s performance during 2022, prior to making a
recommendation on its reappointment in early 2023, the Transition year 2017
Committee reviewed the effectiveness of its performance First shareholder approval of current May 2018
against the criteria which it agreed with management at the auditor
beginning of 2022.
First audited Annual Report and 20-FYear ending 31 December 2018
The detailed criteria used to judge Deloitte's effectiveness as
New lead audit engagement partner 2023
external auditor are available at gsk.com. These are based on
the audit approach and strategy, ensuring a high-quality Next audit tender required by 2025/2026 (to take effect from
regulations 2028)
independent audit, effective partnership and value for money.
The Committee monitors engagements with external There were no contractual or similar obligations restricting the
stakeholders relevant to our areas of oversight, including the Group’s choice of external auditor.
FRC and Securities and Exchange Commission.
Audit partner rotation
We sought to ensure that Deloitte would deliver a smooth,
thorough and efficiently executed audit for 2023 and so The external auditor is required to rotate the audit engagement
considered: partner for GSK every five years.
–the overall quality of the audit Our previous audit partner stepped down in March 2023 after
–the independence of Deloitte the audit of GSK’s financial statements for 2022 was concluded.
–whether Deloitte showed an appropriate level of challenge After a robust review process by the Committee, together with
and scepticism in its work the former CFO, the new audit partner was selected. The
Committee approved the appointment with effect from the
Deloitte’s length of tenure was not taken into account when
start of the 2023 financial year.
assessing its independence and objectivity, given it only
commenced its role as auditor in 2018. However, the Committee We were satisfied that Deloitte managed an orderly handover
did consider how effectively it had assumed its role as auditor. to the new audit engagement partner. This resulted in a
The Committee also considered feedback on the 2023 external seamless transition and maintenance of high levels of audit
audit, through a survey of Committee members and the quality and effectiveness throughout the reporting year.
financial management team at corporate and business unit
level. The survey covered the: Audit tender
–effectiveness of the auditor’s challenge The Committee considers that, during 2023, the company
complied with the mandatory audit processes and audit
–integrity of Deloitte
committee responsibility provisions of the Competition and
–transparency of its reporting to management and the
Markets Authority Statutory Audit Services Order 2014.
Committee
–the auditor's effective use of technology As Deloitte continues to maintain its independence and
–clarity of the auditor’s communications and ways of working objectivity, and the Committee remains satisfied with its
–quality of the audit team’s leadership performance, GSK does not intend to tender the external
–skills and experience of the audit team auditor contract before the end of the current required period
of 10 years identified above and considers that this is in the best
As Committee Chair, I regularly meet independently with the interests of shareholders. The Committee was mindful that there
audit partner. We also meet with the auditor privately at the were appointments of a new CFO for GSK and audit partner for
end of each Committee meeting to discuss progress, as Deloitte during the 2023 financial year, which is helpful in
appropriate. further mitigating the risks of any over-familiarity between the
company and the auditor.
Having reviewed the above feedback, and noted any areas of
improvement to be implemented by the audit team for 2024,
the Committee was satisfied with the:
–effectiveness of the auditor and the external audit process
–auditor’s independence, qualifications, objectivity, expertise
and resources
We agreed to recommend to the Board Deloitte's
reappointment at the next AGM, and did so free from the
influence of any third party.
137Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Board committee reports continued
Non-audit services Audit and other services comparison (£m)
Management operates on the presumption that other
accountancy firms will ordinarily provide non-audit services to 2023 1.6 20.4
GSK. However, where the external auditor’s skills and experience
make it the only suitable supplier of non-audit support – such
as for audit-related matters, tax and other services – it may be
2022 6.3 20.6
used, in the best interests of the company.
In line with GSK’s non-audit services policy, the Committee
ensures that auditor objectivity and independence are 2021 4.0 27.7
safeguarded by reviewing and pre-approving the external
auditor’s provision of such services. The company policy
complies with the FRC’s 2019 Revised Ethical Standard and the 0 10 20 30
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. It observes the following core
l Audit services
policy features on engaging the external auditor for non-audit
services: l Other Assurance services
GSK non-audit services policy, key features: Further fees payable to Deloitte for non-audit services relating to the
Consumer Healthcare demerger were £4.4 million in 2022 and
Process: All non-audit services over £50,000 are put to £2.4 million in 2021, as set out on page 115 of the 2021 Annual Report
competitive tender with other financial services providers, and page 128 of the 2022 Annual Report respectively. A fee of
in line with the Group’s procurement process, unless the £0.2 million was paid to the auditor in respect of GSK pension schemes
skills and experience of the external auditor make it the in each of 2021, 2022 and 2023
only suitable supplier.
The fees paid to the company's auditor and its associates are
Safeguards: Adequate safeguards are established so that the
set out above. Further details are given in Note 8 to the
objectivity and independence of the Group audit are not
threatened or compromised. financial statements, ‘Operating profit’ on page 198.
Fee cap: The total fee payable for non-audit services should not The Committee considered the level of non-audit services
exceed 50% of the annual audit fee, except in special incurred as part of its annual review of Deloitte’s independence
circumstances where there would be a clear advantage set out on the previous page and was satisfied that the auditor
in the auditor undertaking the additional work. continued to be independent and exercised objectivity
Prohibitions: GSK’s policy includes a ‘whitelist’ of permitted non-audit throughout 2023.
services in line with the relevant regulations. Any service
not on this list is prohibited. Fair, balanced and understandable assessment
Pre-approval: All non-audit services require pre-approval as set out in The need for an annual report to be fair, balanced and
the table below to ensure services approved are understandable is one of the key compliance requirements for a
consistent with GSK’s non-audit policy for permissible company’s financial statements. To ensure that GSK’s Annual
services. This process ensures all services fall within the Report meets this requirement, we have a well-established and
scope of services permitted and pre-approved by the
documented process governing the coordination and review of
Committee and does not represent a delegation of
Group-wide contributions to the publication. This runs in parallel
authority for pre-approval.
with the process followed by the external auditor. The
Value Pre-approver Committee received a summary of management’s approach to
More than £50,000 Committee Chair and CFO GSK’s 2023 Annual Report to ensure it met the requirements of
the FRC’s Code. This enabled the Committee, and the Board, to
Between £25,000 and Group Financial Controller
confirm that GSK’s 2023 Annual Report as a whole is fair,
£50,000
balanced and understandable and provides the necessary
Under £25,000 Designate of the Group information for shareholders to assess the company’s position
Financial Controller and performance, business model and strategy.
Code of Conduct and reporting lines
We have a number of well-established policies (including a new
Code of Conduct), which are available on gsk.com, together
with details of our confidential Speak Up lines for reporting and
investigating unlawful conduct.
Charles Bancroft
Audit & Risk Committee Chair
27 February 2024
138Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Remuneration report
Committee Chair's annual statement
Dear Shareholder, Long-term incentive (LTI) awards
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to 69.95% of the grant under the 2021 Performance Share Plan
present our Remuneration Report for 2023. This includes my (PSP) award vested based on performance to the end of 2023.
Annual Statement, explaining the Committee’s work this year The award vested in three out of four measures.
and our Annual Report on remuneration for 2023. A summary of
There was full vesting of the Pipeline Progress measure and
our Remuneration Policy, which was approved by shareholders
almost full vesting under our Innovation Sales measure (20%
at the 2022 AGM, is available on pages 158 to 162 of the 2022
and 19.95% respectively). The Cash Flow measure also vested in
Annual Report and at gsk.com.
full (30%).
Context for 2023 remuneration and outcomes We remain disappointed that we have not yet achieved vesting
As outlined earlier in this report, GSK delivered very strong under our Relative TSR measure. In part this reflects the adverse
performance in 2023, with sales, adjusted operating profit and share price reaction to Zantac litigation in the period, but we
adjusted EPS all growing at double-digit levels for the year also recognise there have been relative concerns on the
(excluding COVID-19 solutions). There was also strong pipeline strength of the company’s pipeline. We are confident that the
progress with four major product approvals, including the progress we are making to develop our portfolio, together with
world's first RSV vaccine, Arexvy. our improving longer-term outlooks for growth, will be
increasingly reflected in GSK’s valuation.
Overall, the company is delivering the step change in
performance in the commitments it has previously made to Summary of incentive outcomes
shareholders. Following a review of contextual factors including previous
payouts, the Committee believes that the outcomes
2023 was the second year of operation of the company's new
appropriately reflect performance in the round having
Remuneration policy. This is a fundamental part of the
considered the experience of all stakeholders including
architecture of GSK post-separation to ensure we build a
shareholders and our employees.
performance culture and generate sustained delivery of
shareholder value. The incentive awards in relation to 2023 were all made in
accordance with the 2022 Remuneration policy. I also confirm
Our policy better links executive remuneration to delivery of
that following careful review the Committee did not deem it
outperformance, with the Annual Bonus opportunity
necessary to exercise discretion.
significantly reduced for below target performance, and
increased for exceptional outperformance. Under the new Remuneration policy implementation for 2024
scheme, the increase in the Bonus opportunity does not
Annual Bonus and LTI
increase the potential cash reward for executives, as any
incremental award is delivered in the form of shares, deferred The Committee has determined that no changes will be made
for three years. to our Bonus and LTI measures for 2024. The total sales growth
and adjusted operating profit growth targets exclude the
2023 Annual Bonus
commercial benefit from COVID-19 solutions.
It is against this delivery that the Committee reviewed the Bonus
Annual Bonus measures will continue to be based on:
outcomes for the CEO and CFO.
–annual total sales growth (30%)
In terms of the two financial measures, the company delivered
sales growth of 14% and adjusted operating profit growth of –annual adjusted operating profit growth (30%)
16% (excluding COVID-19 solutions). This was significantly
higher than both the guidance the company provided at the –personal performance against strategic and operational
start of the year and market expectations, and strongly measures (30%)
supports delivery of GSK’s growth outlooks for the period
–ESG: diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) (10%)
2021-26.
PSP measures will remain as:
This very strong performance led to an overall payout under the
financial elements of the Bonus of 190% of salary. The 2023 –relative TSR (30%)
targets were set after consideration of analyst consensus, and
–total sales growth over three years (20%)
the Committee is comfortable that the payout is representative
of very strong performance. –adjusted operating profit growth over three years (20%)
The Committee also reviewed performance against the non- –pipeline progress (20%)
financial measures previously disclosed, together with
–ESG: environment composite scorecard (10%)
executives’ delivery against their specific individual strategic
and operational measures. The performance targets were also calibrated to consider a
number of internal and external reference points, in particular
When this performance was combined the overall payout
analyst consensus. These were used to challenge the metrics
against a maximum of 300% was 288% of salary for the CEO
and with input from our Science and Corporate Responsibility
(of which 188% of salary is delivered in deferred shares) and
committees where relevant. The Committee is therefore
264% of salary for the CFO (197.5% of salary, after proration for
satisfied that the targets set for 2024 are suitably stretching.
the period she was employed in 2023; of which 99% of salary is
delivered in deferred shares). Salary
The Committee noted that a 4% increase has been agreed for
the wider workforce in the UK. After careful consideration,
including a review of the market and the CEO and CFO’s
competitive positioning, it was agreed that they should each
receive salary increases of 4% for 2024.
139Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Committee Chair's annual statement continued
Workforce fairness Thank you
In setting executive pay it is important that the Committee does I would like to take this opportunity to thank both my fellow
so with a good understanding of the Group’s wider workforce Committee members and shareholders for your support and
approach to pay, with an emphasis on fairness and equity. To engagement during my tenure as Committee Chair.
that end, on an annual basis, I meet with senior Human
I welcome all further feedback and look forward to receiving
Resources Leaders from across the company to understand
your support for this report at our Annual General Meeting on
their perspectives on pay and GSK’s remuneration
8 May 2024.
arrangements for the wider workforce globally. This year was
the fifth such annual meeting held. Details of this important Urs Rohner
check are given on page 122. Remuneration Committee Chair
27 February 2024
Board changes
As announced in September 2022, Julie Brown joined the Board
on 1 May 2023 as CFO, at which point Iain Mackay stepped
down from the Board. Details of the joining and leaving
arrangements for this transition were described in last year’s
report.
Remuneration Committee Chair succession
Finally, I will be retiring as a Non-Executive Director of GSK at
the 2024 AGM and this will therefore be my final report as Chair
of the Committee.
I was delighted to welcome Wendy Becker, who joined the
Committee on 1 October 2023. Since then, Wendy and I have
been working on a smooth transition and handover before she
succeeds me as Committee Chair in May 2024. She has a
wealth of experience chairing remuneration committees and is
looking forward to chairing the Committee and leading our
2025 Policy review.
The Committee is planning to undertake a review of the
effectiveness of our remuneration arrangements in advance of
the scheduled Policy renewal at the 2025 AGM. Wendy and
Jonathan Symonds, our Chair, are looking forward to engaging
with investors to ensure we are clear on your perspectives as we
work to update our Remuneration policy.
140Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Remuneration at a glance
2023 Total Remuneration
Emma Walmsley, CEO
2023 Pay for performance
2023 Annual bonus outcome
£14m
Financial measures Target Delivered
£12m Total sales growth* 7.0% 13.9%
Adjusted operating profit growth* 11.0% 16.4%
£10m
Overall Strategic
and Operational ESG
Non-Financial measures measures DEI
£8m
Emma Walmsley Exceeded Met in full
£6m Julie Brown Exceeded Met in full
2023 Annual bonus delivery
£4m
£2m
£0m
35% CEO CFO(1)
2023 2022 Overall bonus Overall bonus
50% 50%
288% of 197.5% of
salary salary
65%
Julie Brown, CFO (from 1 May 2023)(1)
£8m
l Shares deferred for 3 years (1)For service from employment
l Cash on 3 April 2023
£6m
2021 PSP outcome
£4m
Adjusted free
Relative TSR
cash flow
0% of 30%
£2m 30% of 30%
Overall
£0m vesting
2023 69.95%
(1) See details of CFO joining arrangements on page 142
l Fixed pay – salary, benefits, pensions and other Pipeline progress Innovation sales
l Performance pay – annual bonus and vested LTIs 20% of 20% 19.95% of 20%
l Vested l Lapsed
2024 Remuneration implementation
Base salary 4% increase for UK employees and Executive Directors
Benefits and pensions No changes
Pay for Performance Annual LTIs
Bonus and LTI measures remain as follows Alignment to strategy bonus (PSP)
Total sales growth* In line with sales growth ambitions 30% 20%
Adjusted operating profit growth* In line with adjusted operating profit growth ambitions 30% 20%
Strategic and operational Individual accountability for delivery of our strategy and public ambitions 30% –
Emphasis on Innovation – rewards acceleration and strengthening of – 20%
Pipeline
pipeline
Relative total shareholder return Alignment with shareholders – 30%
Nature and Climate ambitions – 10%
ESG ambitions
2024 – DEI Priorities
10% –
*excluding COVID-19 solutions
141Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Annual report on remuneration
2023 Total remuneration (audited)
Fixed pay Pay for performance
Salary
+ + LTI awards = Total
Pension Annual Bonus
(2021 PSP award vesting) remuneration
Benefits
Read more on
page 143 pages 144 and 145 pages 146 and 147 below
The following sections from this page to page 160 provide details of each element of 2023 ‘Total remuneration’ and how the
Committee implemented the company’s shareholder-approved 2022 Remuneration policy during the year in terms of fixed and
performance pay.
2023 Total remuneration (audited)
Emma Walmsley, CEO Julie Brown, CFO Iain Mackay, former CFO
(from 1 May 2023) (to 1 May 2023)
2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Fixed pay
Salary 1,310 1,260 635 — 305 915
Benefits 212 131 50 — 82 291
Pension 94 253 44 — 22 183
Other(1) — — 2,411 — — —
Total fixed pay 1,616 1,644 3,140 — 409 1,389
Pay for performance
Annual bonus(2) (3) 3,774 3,143 1,687 — 728 2,082
Vesting of PSP LTI awards(4) (5) (6) 7,328 3,662 — — 5,294 1,854
Total pay for performance 11,102 6,805 1,687 — 6,022 3,936
Total remuneration 12,718 8,449 4,827 — 6,431 5,325
(1) Other: Represents the sum paid to Julie Brown, the CFO, as part of her Buyout arrangements in relation to leaving Burberry, as set out in full on page 149
of the 2022 Annual Report. In setting the Buyout arrangements, which are staged over a two year period, the Committee sought to ensure she was
compensated on a like-for-like basis as far as possible. In fulfilment of these arrangements, the CFO purchased 22,500 shares in June 2023
(2)Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP): The mandatory DABP bonus deferrals for 2022 and 2023 are set out on page 156
(3)Annual bonus: The 2023 bonus payment for Iain Mackay represents bonus earned in respect of the period from 1 January to 1 May 2023. Details of the
bonus paid in respect of the remainder of the year can be found in the Leaving Directors section on page 154. The 2023 bonus payment for Julie Brown
represents bonus earned in respect of the period from 1 May to 31 December 2023. Bonus for the full period of her employment in 2023 is shown on
page 144
(4)2020 PSP vesting in 2023: The Total remuneration figure for the CEO in 2022 included vesting of the top-up award made in May 2020 which did not
vest until May 2023. The final actual value received has been updated, bringing the total value to £3.662 million (previously reported as £3.666 million)
(5)2021 PSP vesting in 2024: For the CEO, the figure has been valued based on the vesting prices on 9 February 2024 of £16.60. The share price on 10
February 2021, the date of grant, was £12.77. Of the vested amounts for the Executive Directors, 23.1% of the value was attributable to share price
appreciation over the performance period. The Committee did not exercise any discretion in relation to the vesting of the awards or share price
changes
(6)The PSP vesting value for the former CFO is unreduced and is an illustrative amount as the award will not vest until January 2025 in accordance with
the terms of the Executive and Senior Management Recoupment Policy (Recoupment Policy). His award will then remain subject to the two-year
holding period which started from the original vesting date of the award in February 2024. The actual value received will be updated in the 2024
Annual Report. Further details of the former CFO’s leaving arrangements are set out in the Leaving Directors section on page 154
(7) The CEO and CFO each contribute the maximum of £250 and £125 a month into the Share Save plan and to buy shares under the Share Reward plan
respectively. Further details of these HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) approved all-employee plans are set out on page 147
(8)Malus and clawback: The Committee may in specific circumstances, and in line with stated principles, apply malus/clawback, as it determines
appropriate. Following due consideration by the Committee, there has been no recovery of sums paid (clawback) or reduction of outstanding awards or
vesting levels (malus) applied during 2023 in respect of any of the CEO, CFO or the former CFO
142Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Annual report on remuneration continued
2023 Total remuneration (audited) continued
Fixed pay (audited)
Salary
The Committee is very aware of the sensitivity amongst stakeholders to levels of pay. Before setting or reviewing salary, it considered
the average increases awarded to employees below Executive Directors and the multiplier effect of increases in base salaries on
total remuneration opportunity. The Committee considered the wider economic context, individual performance and market
positioning of the increases awarded. The table below sets out the base salaries and increases agreed for 2023 and 2024 of the
Executive Directors compared to increases of the UK workforce.
Salary
% change £000
2023 effective date 2024 2023 2024 2023 2022
UK employees 1 April 4 5
Emma Walmsley 1 January 4 4 1,363 1,310 1,260
Julie Brown 1 May 4 4 990 952 —
Julie Brown's salary on the announcement of her appointment in September 2022 was set in line with her predecessor, given her extensive experience as a CFO.
Her salary upon joining was increased to reflect the increases awarded to UK employees and the CEO in early 2023.
Benefits Benefits
£000
This table provides an analysis of total benefits (grossed up
2023 2022
for tax) received by the Executive Directors in 2023 and 2022.
Emma Walmsley
The UK remuneration reporting regulations require the
Benefits available to employees 118 66
company to add into each Executive Director’s total benefits
all items which are deemed by tax authorities to be a taxable Business-related services 94 65
benefit for them. These include employee benefits as well as Total benefits 212 131
business-related services provided to employees to assist or
enable them to carry out their role, which a tax authority has Julie Brown
deemed to be a taxable “benefit” to the individual. Because
Benefits available to employees 25 —
these are business expenses, the company meets the tax which
Business-related services 25 —
arises on them and therefore the items are shown grossed up
for tax. Total benefits 50 —
Pensions
From 1 January 2023, pension arrangements for Executive Directors were aligned to the wider workforce. They received GSK pension
contributions or cash supplements of 7% of base salary and matching contributions of up to 3% on the first £26,666 of salary to 31
March 2023 and on the first £66,666 of salary for the rest of 2023.
The table shows the breakdown of the pension values included in 2023 Total remuneration on page 142. They are calculated as set
out in the UK Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended)
(Remuneration regulations).
Emma Walmsley Julie Brown
(from May 2023)
Pension remuneration values 2023 2022 2023 2022
UK defined contribution 6 3 — —
Employer cash contributions 88 250 44 —
Pension 94 253 44 —
143Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited)
Annual Bonus
Adjusted Strategic and
Total sales ESG:
operating profit operational
growth + + + DEI = Annual Bonus
growth measures
30% 10%
30% 30%
l Financial Measures: 60% l Non-Financial Measures: 40%
2023 Annual Bonus performance
The following table shows the Annual Bonuses earned compared to the bonus opportunity for 2023:
2023 Bonus 2023 Bonus
opportunity outcome
Paid as
(£000)
% Shares
Target Maximum 2023 salary of Maximum (DABP
Bonus (% of salary) (% of salary) £000 Bonus % of Salary Cash Award)
Emma Walmsley 1,310 96 288 1,310 2,463
100 300
Julie Brown 952 66 197 940 940
Details of the mandatory deferral by Executive Directors into the DABP for the 2023 bonus are set out on page 156. See page
154 for details of Iain Mackay's 2023 bonus arrangements following his retirement from the company. Julie Brown's bonus has
been pro-rated to reflect the period for which she was employed in 2023. The table on page 142 provides the details of her
bonus from 1 May when she became an Executive Director.
2023 Financial measures
Total sales growth Adjusted operating profit growth
These targets were set following consideration of analyst consensus as well as internal budgets. Threshold and maximum
performance was at 1% below and 5% above target growth respectively. The total sales growth and adjusted operating profit
growth targets and outcomes for the purposes of the Annual Bonus calculation are based on CER and excluding the
commercial benefit from COVID-19 solutions.
Overview of performance against financial performance measures
–GSK delivered strong performance in 2023 with sales, adjusted operating profit and adjusted EPS all growing at double-
digit levels for the year (excluding COVID-19 solutions). This was significantly higher than the guidance provided at the
start of the year, and strongly supports delivery of GSK’s growth outlooks for the period 2021-26
–Delivered full-year reported Group sales of £30.3 billion (+3% AER, +5% CER, +14% excluding COVID-19 solutions)
–Vaccines growth was 23% AER, 24% CER, with Arexvy sales of £1.2 billion since launch in Q3 2023 and Specialty growth
was 21% AER, 23% CER (all excluding COVID-19 solutions)
–Adjusted Group Operating profit CER growth of 16% excluding COVID-19 solutions, driven by higher sales supported by
prioritised increased investment in R&D and new product launches
–Adjusted EPS of 155.1p (+11% AER, +16% CER, +22% excluding COVID-19 solutions) was ahead of updated guidance
144Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
2023 Strategic and operational measures
The Committee received and considered a performance assessment report for each Executive Director showing the extent of their
achievement against the individual personal strategic and operational measures agreed by the Committee for them to support the
delivery of our strategic commitments during 2023. As with the financial elements of the Annual Bonus, the Committee was satisfied
that the scale of Executive Directors’ achievements this year was excellent. These achievements focus on the pipeline, commercial
execution and continued evolution of our culture.
Achievement during 2023 Performance assessment
Emma Walmsley
Innovation – Delivered pipeline progression above target with four major product approvals in RSV prevention, HIV Exceeded
prevention and Oncology
– Delivered innovation sales through successful launches including Arexvy. New products launched since
2021 contributed £2.3 billion to sales in 2023
– Upgraded long-term outlooks for sales and profits with 2021-2026 outlooks for sales now more than 7%
and adjusted operating profit growth now more than 11% CAGR (excluding COVID-19 solutions). 2031
sales outlook increased to more than £38 billion (CER using 2023 average rates)
Performance – Delivered the financial plan exceeding guidance set for 2023 – with Sales +14% excluding COVID-19 Exceeded
solutions and adjusted operating profit up 12% with further positive impact of +4% excluding COVID-19
solutions, and adjusted EPS grew 16% with further positive impact of +6% excluding COVID-19 solutions
(All at CER). Group sales were £30.3 billion
Trust – Sector leader in S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment Exceeded
– Access and Global Health – 89 million people in lower income countries reached through access
partnerships. Malaria vaccine roll out in up to 12 countries. 11 global health pipeline assets progressing
– Environmental Sustainability – progress on all KPIs, including progression of low carbon Ventolin inhaler
programme to phase III development
– Diversity, Equity & Inclusion – 2025 aspirations for gender diversity and UK and US 2025 ethnicity
aspirations at VP and above achieved
Culture – Annual survey of employee engagement reported increase to 81% Exceeded
The Committee determined that the CEO clearly exceeded her individual objectives and that 78% out of the 90% maximum should be attributed to
her overall bonus
Julie Brown
Demonstrate – Deep review of pipeline forecasting to support upgrading of long-term outlooks to 2031 and beyond Exceeded
financial – Design of new investor engagement programme, including development of an Investor Relations
leadership Roadmap and communication of long-term outlooks
Cost discipline – Deep review of capital allocation and pipeline value ‘unlocks’ to support investment in organic R&D Exceeded
and cash flow and Business Development; and to maximise returns to shareholders
management – Initiated work to drive P&L efficiency with a focus on SG&A and operating margin improvement
Demonstrate – Successfully integrated into GSK and established strong partnership working with CEO and members of Met
strong GLT, with notable output to support R&D and the Commercial organisations
culture and
leadership
The Committee determined that the CFO clearly met her individual objectives and that 54% out of the 90% maximum should be attributed to her
overall bonus
2023 ESG: DEI aspirations
Emma Walmsley Julie Brown Payout level
Enterprise targets not met Directorate targets not met Nil (0%)
Enterprise targets met, but not all directorate targets Personal directorate targets met Target (10%)
Enterprise and all directorate targets met Maximum (20%)
Outcome achieved Maximum payout – 20% Maximum payout – 20%
Overview of performance against DEI aspirations
Our ESG: DEI measure reinforces delivery of our commitment to create a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace. Our broader
DEI commitments are set out on page 52. As part of our effort to meet our 2025 Aspirational Targets for diversity of senior
leadership, the Committee agreed interim, annual aspirational targets for 2023 including global gender representation and US and
UK race and ethnicity representation aspirations at an enterprise level for the CEO and at a directorate level for the CFO. An
internal governance team audited performance against these aspirations for the Committee.
Delivery: These interim aspirations were met in 2023. At the year end the GSK Enterprise performance was 45% gender
representation and 35.7% US ethnicity and 18.4% UK ethnicity in our VP and above employee population. Julie Brown's directorate
also met its 2023 aspirations.
145Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
Vesting of PSP LTI awards
Pipeline Innovation Adjusted Free Relative Total
Progress + Sales + Cash Flow + Shareholder Return = Total Vested LTI
20% 20% 30% 30%
Overview of Performance
In line with the Committee’s agreed principles, actual performance against each measure is carefully reviewed and adjustments
are made, as appropriate. This ensures that the vesting outcome reflects genuine underlying business performance and has
been delivered in line with our culture and values. The Committee did not deem it necessary to exercise any discretion in relation
to the vesting of the awards or due to share price changes. Overall, 69.95% of the 2021 PSP awards vested against the targets
set out below. During the 2021-23 performance period, significant progress was achieved in accelerating the delivery of our
pipeline. Near full vesting was achieved under Innovation sales, reflecting increases in the performance of Trelegy, Nucala,
Dovato and Benlysta during the period. Strong performance was evidenced with full vesting under the Adjusted free cash flow
and Pipeline progress elements; however, disappointingly there was nil-vesting under Relative TSR. The percentage of award
values vesting below have been rounded down to whole numbers for presentational purposes.
2021 PSP Outcomes
Outcome and vesting level
Performance measures % of % of
and relative weighting Performance targets Outcome maximum award
Pipeline progress Targets strengthening our pipeline through progression of high quality assets into
(20%) pivotal trials and the achievement of regulatory approvals in major markets. The
points are allocated on achievement of these two equally weighted elements of 10%
Threshold Maximum
Measure 25% 50% 75% 100%
Pivotal Trial starts 12 14 16 17 18 points 100
Major regulatory
approval milestones 13 15 17 19 20 points 100 20
Innovation sales Recognises the importance of launching new products successfully and that £18.65 billion 99.8 19
(20%) driving their performance is key to our commercial success. This measure
aggregates three-year sales for new innovative products launched in the three-
year performance period and the preceding two years, i.e. 2019-23
Innovation sales (billion) % vesting
Maximum £18.67 100
£16.97 75
£16.12 50
Threshold £15.27 25
<£15.27 0
Adjusted free In line with the company’s agreed principles, the AFCF figures included £9.81 billion 100 30
cash flow (AFCF) adjustments for a number of material distorting items, including legal settlements,
(30%) exchange rate movements and special pension contributions
Revised target (billion)(1) % vesting
Maximum £6.54 100
£6.26 75
£5.69 50
Threshold £5.52 25
<£5.52 0
(1) The revised target has been further adjusted since the 2022 Annual Report as noted below
Relative TSR TSR ranking within comparator Ranked 9th 0 0
(30%) group (10 companies) % vesting
Maximum 1st, 2nd, 3rd 100
4th 70
5th 40
Threshold(2) Median 25
6th to 10th 0
(2) The median vesting threshold falls between two companies. The Relative TSR comparator
group is set out on page 152
Total vesting in respect of 2021 PSP awards 69
The AFCF measure target, threshold and associated vesting scales for the 2021 PSP awards have been further adjusted since being restated in the
2022 Annual Report. The net overall impact is an increase in the revised target from £5.64 billion to £5.69 billion for the 2021 PSP awards. The
adjustment takes into account revised timings of restructuring payments linked to the Future Ready programme.
146Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
2021 PSP vesting
Value of vested shares(1)
Granted Vested(1) (£000)
Emma Walmsley 550,757 441,309 £7,328
(1) The number of shares which vested and the value they represented at vesting includes dividend reinvestments during the performance period. These
are based on the vesting price of £16.60 on 9 February 2024
(2)The PSP award for Dr Hal Barron vested and was adjusted for time worked during the performance period, including dividend reinvestments. 153,505
shares vested at a value of $4.492 million. Shares were sold for tax and will be held for two years under the terms of the Recoupment Policy
(3)The Committee is aware of the guidance from investor bodies regarding the potential executive benefit arising from share award grants around the
time of the stock market fall at the onset of COVID-19 in March 2020. Our Remuneration policy contains sufficient flexibility to reduce the vesting of
awards if required. No reduction was required in respect of the awards granted in February 2021. In making this determination, the Committee
considered the share price at the time of the February 2021 award of £12.77, over the final quarter of 2023 of £14.46 and at the time of the previous
award in February 2020 of £16.81. Whilst there have been upward and downward movements in GSK's share price over the period, taking these points
into consideration the Committee was satisfied that there was no risk of windfall gains
2023 LTI grants
The 2023 DABP awards, in respect of the deferral of 2022 bonus, and the 2023 PSP awards are set out below.
2023 DABP awards 2023 PSP awards
Face value Face value
% of total 2022 Number of of award(1) Award level as % Number of of award(2)(3)
bonus deferred shares £000 of base salary shares £000
Emma Walmsley 60 125,482 1,883 575 501,927 7,534
Julie Brown — — — 400 264,026 3,808
Iain Mackay 56 77,751 1,167 — — —
(1) The face value of the DABP awards has been calculated based on a share price of £15.01, being the closing price on 8 February 2023 (the day before
grant). These are nil-cost options for the Executive Directors. No performance conditions are attached to the DABP awards, as they reflect the
mandatory three-year deferrals in respect of the Annual Bonus for 2022
(2)The face values of the PSP awards have been calculated based on a share price of £15.01 for Emma Walmsley and £14.422 for Julie Brown, being the
closing price on 8 February 2023 and 26 April 2023 respectively (the days before the respective grants). The unreduced PSP award for Julie Brown was
granted in conjunction with her joining arrangements as detailed on page 149 of the 2022 Annual Report. These are conditional shares, based on the
performance measures above. Iain Mackay did not receive a PSP award due to his retirement from the company
(3)Performance period for the 2023 PSP awards is from 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2025. Awards vest at 25% of maximum for threshold performance.
Please see the 2022 Directors Remuneration Report for details of the measures and targets for the 2023 awards
Historical vesting for LTI plans
The following table summarises LTI vesting by performance measure for GSK over the last ten years.
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Relative TSR 0 0 0 15 0 0 0 0 0 0
Adjusted free cash flow 0 0 0 21 26 33 33 33 30 30
Innovation sales (previously R&D new product) 7 21 33 33 33 33 33 25 8 19
Pipeline progress 14 20
Business diversification 7 17
Total vested % 14 38 33 69 59 67 67 58 52 69
All-employee share plans
The Executive Directors may participate in HMRC approved all-employee share plans, namely the company’s Share Save and
Share Reward plans, along with the wider UK workforce. Participants of the Share Save plan may save up to £250 a month for three
years and from which they have the option to buy GSK shares at a discount of up to 20% to the share price at the start of the
savings contract. Participants of the Share Reward plan contribute up to £125 a month to purchase GSK shares which the company
then matches on a one-for-one basis.
Malus and clawback policy
Our existing policy on malus and clawback is provided in the 2022 Remuneration policy report on page 147 of the 2021 Annual
Report, available on gsk.com. The Committee reviews and discloses whether it, or the Recoupment Committee, has exercised malus
or clawback. Disclosure is only made when the matter has been the subject of public reports of misconduct, where it has been fully
resolved, where it is legally permissible to disclose and where it can be made without unduly prejudicing the company and therefore
shareholders. In line with these disclosure guidelines, there were no matters to report during 2023. An administrative amendment to
the malus and clawback section of the 2022 Remuneration policy, as described on page 163 of the 2022 Annual Report, was
approved by shareholders at the 2023 AGM. The Committee then adopted an additional clawback policy in accordance with the US
Securities and Exchange Commission's new clawback rules effective 30 November 2023.
For details of our existing policies on recruitment remuneration, loss of office and termination payments, please refer to the 2022
Remuneration policy report on pages 144 to 152 of the 2021 Annual Report, available on gsk.com.
147Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
Pay for performance in 2024
2024 Annual Bonus – Performance measures
There are no changes to the operation of the Annual Bonus plan. For full details of the policy please refer to pages 145 and 146 of
the 2021 Annual Report.
Bonus opportunity % of salary
Target Maximum(1)
Emma Walmsley
100 300
Julie Brown
(1) 50% of the equivalent of the first 200% of salary is deferred, and any portion in excess of 200% is deferred in full
Weighting of performance measures
Weighting of performance measures %
Adjusted operating profit Strategic and operational ESG: diversity, equity and
Total sales growth growth measures inclusion
Emma Walmsley
30 30 30 10
Julie Brown
Inevitably, targets linked directly to our financial and strategic plan are commercially sensitive. The Committee does not
consider it appropriate to disclose Annual Bonus targets during the year, as it may result in competitive harm. However, details
of the performance targets will, as usual, be disclosed on a retrospective basis in the 2024 Annual Report.
2024 LTI Awards
The table below provides details of:
– the mandatory deferral into the DABP of the 2023 Annual Bonus payments and the associated awards granted. The shares
awarded have no performance conditions, but must be held for three years, regardless of continued employment
– 2024 awards granted under the PSP
DABP awards PSP awards
2023 bonus deferred to Number of Face value of Face value of award
shares (% of salary) shares award (£000) % base salary Number of shares (£000)
Emma Walmsley 188 147,271 2,463 575 468,449 7,835
Julie Brown 99 56,190 940 400 236,763 3,960
148Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
2024 LTI performance measures
The measures and weightings for the 2024 awards remain unchanged from those used for the 2023 awards:
Measure Weighting
Innovation Pipeline progress 20%
Performance Relative TSR 30%
Total sales growth 20%
Adjusted operating profit growth 20%
Trust ESG: environment 10%
Innovation Performance
The Pipeline progress measure seeks to reward acceleration Relative TSR will continue to be measured against GSK’s
and strengthening of the pipeline. This is based on two equally Global pharmaceutical comparator group (see page 152).
weighted elements of our key assets or indications measured The total sales growth and adjusted operating profit growth
over a three-year performance period. measures recognise the importance of our commercial
ambitions. The targets for total sales growth and adjusted
Points are allocated for successful assets in each sub-measure
operating profit growth are commercially sensitive at the
based upon their forecast commercial value (peak year sales)
time of grant.
at the end of the performance period. The sub-measures for
the 2024 award will vest as follows: Trust
Pivotal trial starts The ESG: environment measure is based on our Climate and
Nature goals (see page 49). The targets for the 2024 award
Focuses mainly on phase III registrational trial starts, but may focus on Nature goals relating to Water, Waste & Materials
also include phase II starts. reduction and Biodiversity impact. Climate goals
incorporate Scope 1 & 2 emission reduction targets, carbon
Performance level Points Payout offsetting and our industrialisation and availability of green
Below Threshold <15 Nil Ventolin.
Threshold 15 25%
To achieve:
18 50% –25% vesting, targets for two measures achieved at the end
22 75% of 2026, with one in Climate and one in Nature
Maximum 26 100% –50% vesting, targets for four measures achieved at the
end
of 2026
Major regulatory approvals –75% vesting, all six measures must have met their 2026
targets
Performance level Points Payout –100% vesting, two of the six measures, at least one in
Below Threshold <17 Nil Climate and one in Nature, must have exceeded their
Threshold 17 25% 2026 targets
20 50%
22 75%
Maximum 24 100%
The Pipeline progress measure is commercially sensitive at the
time of grant. At the end of the performance period we will
provide disclosure of what has been achieved.
149Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ pay in a wider setting
Internal context
Comparison of remuneration structure for employees and Executive Directors during 2023
Element Wider workforce and Executive Director pay
Salary The market competitiveness of base salaries across the company is assessed at a local market level. The
competitiveness of roles is kept under regular review
Increases may also be made to reflect a change in scope of an individual’s role, responsibilities or experience
For our Executive Directors following a performance review, increases in base salaries are considered in line with
market practice, the average increase for the wider employee population and other comparator tools
In agreeing increases for Executive Directors, the Committee is mindful of the multiplier effect on the individual’s
total remuneration
Benefits and The company seeks to provide an appropriate benefits and pensions package that is aligned to competitive
pensions market practices in those countries in which the company operates and where our employees and Executive
Directors are based
Annual With the exception of our sales force, who participate in separate arrangements, our wider workforce
Bonus participates in a plan based on performance against four business and financial measures. These are structured
to reflect the priorities of each specific business area
This plan is designed to reward our employees’ collective contribution to business achievement
Separate mechanisms are in place to recognise outstanding individual performance or to address under-
performance
Our Executive Directors participate in the plan as follows. Any bonus up to 200% of salary is paid 50% in cash
and 50% in shares deferred for three years. Bonus earned in excess of this (up to a maximum of 300% of salary)
would be delivered fully in shares deferred for three years. Clawback and/or malus provisions apply
LTI plans Senior Vice President (SVP) and Vice President (VP) employees participate in the same Performance Share Plan
as our Executive Directors. Clawback and/or malus provisions apply
Our SVP and VP employees, together with directors and managers below the GLT, receive annual Share Value
Plan awards of restricted shares
Share All UK-based employees can participate in HMRC approved Share Save and Share Reward employee share
ownership plans.
Dilution limits
All awards are made under plans which incorporate dilution limits consistent with the guidelines published by the Investment
Association. These limits are 10% in any rolling ten-year period for all plans and 5% in any rolling ten-year period for executive
share plans (granted to senior executives). Estimated dilution from existing awards made over the last ten years up to
31 December 2023 is as follows:
All GSK employee share plans Executive share plans
150Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors' pay in a wider setting continued
CEO and wider employee pay ratio
Lower quartile Median Upper quartile
Financial year P25 P50 P75
2023 207:1 152:1 94:1
2022 144:1 106:1 67:1
2021 154:1 108:1 67:1
2020 130:1 96:1 62:1
2019 160:1 119:1 73:1
GSK continues to use the Option A methodology because it is the most robust and statistically accurate way to calculate the
three ratios from the options available under the Remuneration regulations. The pay ratio is higher than in 2022 influenced by
the company's strong performance which has delivered an increased bonus for all. The CEO vest was also much higher than in
previous years due to the improvement in the GSK share price. The 2021 award was granted at £12.77 and vested at £16.60.
The pay ratios above are calculated using actual earnings for the CEO and UK employees. The CEO’s total single figure
remuneration of £12.718 million for 2023 and £8.449 million for 2022 are detailed on page 142.
Total remuneration for all UK full-time equivalent employees on 31 December 2023 has been calculated in line with the single
figure methodology. This reflects their actual earnings received in 2023 (excluding business expenses), which were used to
produce the percentile calculation under Option A of the Remuneration regulations. Business expenses have been excluded as
they are reimbursed to employees and are not sufficiently substantial in value to significantly impact the ratios.
The table below shows the salary, total pay and benefits for each of the percentiles.
2023 2022 2021 2020 2023 2022 2021 2020 2023 2022 2021 2020
£ P25 P50 P75
Salary 39,903 37,776 37,251 36,924 55,057 52,107 51,492 50,000 78,496 74,905 72,997 70,203
Total pay and benefits 61,490 58,883 53,151 54,133 83,783 79,428 76,234 73,340 135,819 126,594 122,852 113,830
The Committee believes that the median pay ratio is consistent with the company’s pay, reward and progression policies.
The base salaries of all employees, including the Executive Directors, are set with reference to a range of factors including
market practice, experience and performance in role.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The table shows total employee pay and dividends paid to The figures in this table, reflecting payments made during each
shareholders. year and the impact of movements in exchange rates, are as
set out on pages 199 and 206. However, cash dividends
Change 2023 2022 declared in respect of 2023 were £2,352 million (2022: £2,470
% £m £m million) a decrease of 4.8%. Please see Note 16 to the financial
Total employee pay 10.1 8,473 7,693 statements for further details.
Dividends paid in the year (35.2) 2,247 3,467
Total employee pay is based on 70,244 employees, the average
number of people employed during 2023 (2022: 69,130). See
Note 9 to the financial statements for further details.
The last share repurchase made by the company was in 2014.
151Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors' pay in a wider setting continued
External context
2023 target CEO total remuneration positioning Comparator groups
When reviewing the CEO’s remuneration, the Committee’s The European cross-industry comparator group is the
primary comparator group is the European cross-industry Committee's primary comparator group for the CEO and CFO.
comparator group. It also references pay for the Global The Global pharmaceutical comparator group is the secondary
pharmaceutical comparator group. group for the CEO, and is also used to measure relative TSR
performance.
European cross-industry comparator group
Roche Holding AG Linde Deutsche Telekom
Novartis Sanofi Kering
LVMH AstraZeneca Heineken
Anheuser-Busch InBev Diageo BASF
Unilever Siemens Vinci
SAP Christian Dior Adidas
L’Oreal Inditex Bayer
Novo Nordisk A/S BAT Safran
Airbus Volkswagen Reckitt Benckiser
Remuneration includes salary and the expected value of incentives based on Global pharmaceutical comparator group
the Committee’s agreed benchmarking methodology
France US
Sanofi AbbVie(1)
Historic CEO remuneration Amgen(1)
Switzerland Bristol-Myers Squibb
Emma Walmsley £000 Novartis Eli Lilly
Roche Holdings Johnson & Johnson
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Merck & Co
T reo mta ul n eration 12,718 8,449 8,203 7,031 8,094 5,887 4,883(1) U AK straZeneca Pfizer
% of maximum
(1) AbbVie and Amgen are included for remuneration benchmarking, but are
Annual Bonus
not included in the relative TSR performance comparator group
award 96% 83% 93% 49% 79% 93% 77%
Vesting of LTI
TSR Performance graph
awards 69% 52% 58% 67% 67% 59% 69%
The following graph sets out the performance of the company
Sir Andrew Witty £000 relative to the FTSE 100 Index and to the Global pharmaceutical
performance comparator group for the ten-year period to
2017 2016 2015 2014
Total remuneration 715 (2) 6,830 6,661 3,902 31 December 2023. These indices were selected for comparison
purposes as they reflect both the primary index of which GSK is
% of maximum
a constituent and the industry in which GSK operates.
Annual Bonus award 0%(2) 97% 100% 42%
Vesting of LTI awards 0%(3) 33% 38% 14%
(1) Emma Walmsley’s total remuneration includes her pay for the period
1 January to 31 March 2017, before she became CEO
(2)Sir Andrew Witty received a pro-rata payment for 2017 in lieu of a
variable bonus opportunity, in accordance with the 2014 Remuneration
policy
(3)PSP and DABP awards for Sir Andrew Witty granted in 2015 did not vest
until April 2018, in accordance with the terms of the Recoupment Policy
152Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Annual report on remuneration continued
Remuneration governance
Committee role and membership The principal proxy advisory firms are also consulted regularly.
These details are available on page 116 and are incorporated They were also invited to our Annual Governance Meeting and
by reference into this Report. The Chair, CEO, Chief People are sent engagement letters from the Committee and company
Officer, Head of Reward, Group Financial Controller and the Chairs.
Company Secretary assisted the Committee during the year.
AGM voting
Adviser to the Committee
Details of voting levels in respect of our Remuneration
Independent Willis Towers Watson plc (WTW) arrangements are set out below.
adviser WTW is a member of the Remuneration Consultants
Votes
Group and operates under its code of conduct for
executive remuneration consulting in the UK which Total votes Total votes Total votes withheld
cast (billion) for (%) against (%) (million)
can be accessed at:
www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com 2023 AGM
Appointed 1 December 2022 following a tender process Remuneration Report 2.8 88.8 11.2 70.1
Advice provided The Committee is comfortable that the WTW Amendments to 2022 2.9 99.0 1.0 10.7
engagement partner and team that provides Remuneration Policy
remuneration advice to the Committee do not have
2022 AGM
connections with the company or its Directors that
may impair their independence Remuneration Report 3.6 91.1 8.9 12.3
Fees Charged on a time and materials basis: Remuneration Policy 3.6 61.8 38.2 13.3
2023: £63,419 (2022: £4,000 for one month in 2022)
Conflicts of WTW provides market data and other HR consulting
interest services to the company. The Committee regularly
reviews the arrangements for potential conflicts and
where appropriate ensures safeguards are in place
Statement of consideration of shareholder views
The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders
and holds regular meetings with GSK’s largest investors to
discuss and take feedback on its Remuneration policy practices
and governance matters.
2023 ongoing engagement
Details of the extensive consultation by the Committee and
company Chairs regarding remuneration matters prior to
the 2023 AGM vote and continuing engagement with
shareholders afterwards, are set out below.
Shareholder engagement Investor Share capital
events Dates participation represented
Meetings held prior to January to April 8 investors 10%
AGM 2023
Meetings held after May 2023 to 22 investors 25%
the AGM to the February 2024
publication of this
Annual Report
2023 Annual
Governance Meeting:
– invitations November 2023 78 investors 50%
– attendance December 2023 15 investors 25%
153Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Annual report on remuneration continued
Remuneration governance continued
Committee focus during 2023
Items discussed
Remuneration policy –Prepared, agreed and proposed administrative amendments to the 2022 Remuneration Policy
–Continued engagement with shareholders and reviewed and considered shareholder and proxy
advisor feedback
Fixed Pay –Considered Executive Director and GLT performance, benchmarking competitiveness against
GSK comparator groups
–Reviewed GLT and Company Secretary salary recommendations for 2023
–Executive Director salary review recommendations for 2023 and 2024
–Reviewed company Chair’s fees for 2023 and 2024
Pay for Performance
Annual Bonus –Executive Director and GLT 2022 bonus recommendations and set 2023 Executive Directors’
bonus objectives
LTI plans –Considered the LTI performance outcomes and award vesting for the CEO, Executive Directors,
GLT and below
–Confirmed LTI grants for Executive Directors, GLT and below
Governance and other –Remuneration considerations and Committee programme for 2023 and 2024
areas of focus –Committee evaluation and Annual Review of its Terms of Reference
–Approved 2022 Remuneration report
–Confirmed 2023 Group Budget for remuneration purposes
–Considered AGM and Remuneration report feedback, the external remuneration environment
and performance target disclosure for incentive plans
–Agreed Committee's key messages for Annual Governance Meeting
–Committee Chair consulted with employee representatives on wider workforce pay practices
and pay generally
Leaving Directors
To support the CFO succession and transition process, as announced in September 2022 and set out in the 2022 Annual
Report, after stepping down from the Board Iain Mackay continued to receive remuneration until he left GSK on 31 December
2023. This was in line with the current Remuneration policy. His base salary was not increased during 2023. Whilst serving as
an Executive Director (until 1 May 2023) he received total benefits of £82,000 (comprising £67,000 for benefits that are
available to employees and £15,000 for business-related services). The value of his pension until May 2023 totalled £22,000
(comprising £2,000 UK defined contribution and £20,000 employer cash contributions). See page 143 for further explanation.
As an employee to the end of 2023, he remained eligible to receive a bonus under the Executive bonus plan for 2023 based on
delivery of the measures described on page 144. This was reviewed by the Committee and determined to be £2,196,810 in total
for the year, comprising £915,335 in cash and £1,281,475 delivered as GSK shares deferred for three years under the DABP plan.
The bonus value in respect of the period he served as an Executive Director was £728,000.
He was not eligible for and therefore did not receive any further PSP awards in 2023 given he was due to leave GSK. Vesting of
his existing LTI awards will be in accordance with the Recoupment Policy. With regard to the 2021 PSP award of 278,363
ordinary shares, this will not vest until January 2025. 69.95% of the award (223,045 shares inclusive of dividends) will vest in
accordance with the performance described on page 142. The illustrative unreduced value for this award is disclosed in the
Single figure table on page and the value at the time of vesting will be updated in the 2024 Annual Report.
Since his executive service contract ended on 31 December 2023, he will be required to satisfy the post-employment share
ownership requirement as set out on page 156.
Payments (audited): to past Directors for loss of office
No payments were made to past Directors in 2023 No loss of office payments were made during 2023
154Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Annual report on remuneration continued
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
The company aims to provide the Chair and other Non-Executive Directors with fees that are competitive with those paid by other
companies of equivalent size and complexity, subject to the limits contained in its Articles of Association.
2023 Non-Executive Directors’ fees
The Non-Executive Directors’ fees that applied during 2023 are set out in the table below together with the fees for 2024:
Per annum
2023 2024
Chair fee £735,000 £764,400
Standard NED annual fee £113,800 £118,352
Supplemental fees
Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee £80,000 £80,000
Senior Independent Director £50,000 £50,000
Scientific & Medical Experts £30,000 £30,000
Chairs of the Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility and Science committees and, when appointed, £40,000 £40,000
Workforce Engagement Director
Science Committee members undertaking significant additional responsibilities on behalf of GSK Up to £200,000 Up to £200,000
Following a review and approval by the Committee at the end of 2023 it was determined that the Chair's fee should be
increased from £735,000 with effect from 1 January 2024 by 4% to £764,400. The Chair and the CEO also recommended that
the Board approve an increase to the Non-Executive Directors' standard annual fee, with effect from 1 January 2024, by 4% to
£118,352 in line with the increase awarded to the wider UK workforce.
2023 Total fees (audited)
The audited table below sets out the value of fees and benefits received by the Non-Executive Directors in the form of cash and
shares or ADS. Non-Executive Directors' fees paid in a currency other than Sterling are converted using an average exchange
rate that is reviewed from time to time. The average exchange rates were updated in 2023. In 2023, Non-Executive Directors
fees were converted to US Dollars using an exchange rate of $1.175. Benefits comprise the grossed up cash value of travel and
subsistence costs incurred in the normal course of business, in relation to attendance at Board and Committee meetings and in
fulfilling their role.
2023 2022
Fixed fees Fixed fees
Non-Executive Directors’
emoluments (000) (audited) Cash Shares/ADS Benefits Total pay Cash Shares/ADS Benefits Total pay
Sir Jonathan Symonds £551 £184 £30 £765 £525 £175 £10 £710
Elizabeth Anderson $100 $33 $30 $163 $35 $8 — $43
Charles Bancroft — $295 $28 $323 — $287 $10 $297
Dr Hal Barron $344 $33 $78 $455 $150 $16 $11 $177
Dr Anne Beal $156 $33 $34 $223 $138 $46 $15 $199
Wendy Becker £21 £7 £4 £32 — — — —
Dr Hal Dietz $191 $33 $40 $264 $174 $58 $2 $234
Dr Jesse Goodman $144 $33 $44 $221 $182 $61 $31 $274
Urs Rohner £133 £28 £40 £201 £112 £31 £23 £166
Dr Vishal Sikka — $134 $13 $147 — $58 — $58
Non-Executive Director section of 2022 Remuneration policy
At the 2023 AGM, shareholders approved an administrative amendment to the Non-Executive Director section of the Remuneration
policy to allow the notional shares or ADS previously allocated under the Non-Executive Director plan to be delivered to the Chair
and Non-Executive Directors at such time as the Committee and Board considered appropriate after any applicable tax
withholding. The Chair and Mr Rohner's notional shares were released to them after the AGM in 2023. It is expected that the other
Non-Executive Directors holdings will be released to them following the company's AGM in May 2024. The company does not
expect to make any significant changes to the fee structure for the Chair and Non-Executive Directors during the remainder of the
2022 Remuneration policy period.
155Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ interests in shares (audited)
Executive Directors’ interests in shares
The interests of the Executive Directors of the company in office during 2023 and their persons closely associated (PCA) are
shown in the table below:
As at 31 December 2023 or date of retirement
Unvested share plan interests
Subject to
Total directors’ interests(1) Beneficial interests Not subject to performance performance
31 December 2023 or
23 February 2024 date of retirement Shares(2) Shares(3) Options(4,7) Shares(5)
Emma Walmsley 1,974,235 1,542,803 733,961 549,998 258,843 1,636,924
Julie Brown 98,685 23,105 23,105 — — 269,262
Iain Mackay(6) — 475,857 21,892 287,488 166,477 555,267
None of the Directors hold vested but unexercised options.
(1) Total directors’ interests includes beneficial interests and unvested share plan interests not subject to performance. For Emma Walmsley, the balance as
at 23 February 2024 includes shares awarded in 2021, under the PSP and the DABP which vested in February 2024 less those sold to satisfy tax liabilities
on the vested amounts where relevant. Shares awarded in 2021 under the PSP and the DABP to Iain Mackay will not vest until January 2025 in
accordance with the terms of the Recoupment Policy. Executive Directors’ shareholdings against their SOR are outlined below
(2)Beneficial interests includes shares held by the Executive Directors and their PCAs. For Emma Walmsley and Julie Brown, this includes 2,463 shares and
86 shares respectively purchased through the Share Reward plan
(3)Unvested shares not subject to performance represent PSP shares which have vested but are subject to an additional two-year holding period
(4)Unvested options not subject to performance represent bonus deferrals under the DABP which are awarded as nil-cost options (as described in note 7
below). This figure excludes 790 options and 828 options held by Emma Walmsley and Julie Brown respectively under the Share Save plan
(5)Unvested shares subject to performance represent unvested PSP awards
(6)Iain Mackay retired from the Board on 1 May 2023
(7) DABP: The table below shows bonus deferrals and subsequent reinvestment of dividends under the DABP. The amounts represent the gross share
balances prior to the sale of any shares to satisfy tax liabilities on vesting
31 December 2023 or
DABP (Bonus deferrals) 23 February 2024 date of retirement 1 January 2023
Emma Walmsley 356,006 258,843 184,990
Julie Brown 56,190 — —
Iain Mackay — 166,477 127,002
The following table sets out details of nil-cost options exercised during 2023 by Executive Directors:
Number of shares Date of Market price Gain on exercise
Date of grant under option exercise Grant price at exercise (000)
Emma Walmsley 14.02.2020 60,707 14.02.23 £0.00 £14.87 £903
Iain Mackay 14.02.2020 40,985 14.02.23 £0.00 £14.89 £610
The nil-cost options awarded in 2020 under the DABP represent the bonus deferred by the Executive Director and recorded as
remuneration (under Annual Bonus) in the 2019 Total remuneration table. The number of shares under option includes the initial
award together with reinvested dividends accrued to the date of exercise.
Executive Directors' Share ownership requirements (SOR) (audited)
To align the interests of Executive Directors with those of shareholders, they are required to build and maintain significant
holdings of shares in GSK over time. Executive Directors are required to continue to satisfy this SOR by holding 100% of their
SOR for the first 12 months after leaving GSK and not less than 50% of their SOR for months 13-24 thereafter. Shares subject to
performance conditions are excluded from the SOR calculation until the end of the performance period. These vested shares
are then included to the extent that the performance conditions are met. The value of the holdings has been calculated on a
post-tax basis. Iain Mackay exceeded his SOR at the date of his retirement from the Board and continues to maintain his SOR.
Value of holdings as % of salary
SOR 23 February 31 December
% of salary 2024 2023
Emma Walmsley 6.5 16.60 12.84
Julie Brown 3.0 1.12 0.35
156Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors interest in shares (audited) continued
Non-Executive Directors’ interests in shares
The interests of the Non-Executive Directors in office during 2023 and their persons closely associated (PCA) are shown in the
table below:
Prior NED share allocation plan
Total directors’ interests as at(2) Number of shares/ADS
Beneficial Dividends Elected &
NED SOR 23 interests at reinvested allocated
February 23 February 31 December 31 December after 31 December during 1 January
2024(1) 2024 2023 2023(4) year end 2023 the year(5) 2023
Shares
Sir Jonathan Symonds Met 68,207 64,707 64,707 — — 1,047 34,391
Wendy Becker In progress 478 478 478 — — — —
Urs Rohner Met 17,362 17,362 17,362 — — 564 18,519
ADS
Elizabeth Anderson In progress 1,179 1,171 1,171 — — — —
Charles Bancroft Met 23,564 22,809 7,005 709 15,804 240 15,564
Dr Hal Barron Met 641,269(3) 753,357 530,020 — — — —
Dr Anne Beal In progress 2,821 2,734 934 80 1,800 23 1,777
Dr Hal Dietz In progress 2,605 2,527 934 71 1,593 18 1,575
Dr Jesse Goodman Met 14,120 13,548 934 566 12,614 238 12,375
Vishal Sikka Met 4,454 4,422 4,422 — — — —
(1) NED Share Ownership Requirements: Since July 2022, the company has operated a minimum Non-Executive Director share ownership requirement
(NED SOR) of at least one times the standard NED annual fee (or the Chair’s fee) to be maintained until after retirement. from the Board. The Chair
and Non-Executive Directors have transitioned from the previous NED share allocation plan (NED Plan) to purchasing shares and ADSs in the market
from their net fees. They all spend a minimum of 25% of their net fees in purchasing GSK shares or ADSs in the market
(2)Total directors’ interests include beneficial interests and any notional shares/ADS received as all or part of their fees under the previously operated
NED Plan. Dividends received on notional shares/ADS under the prior NED Plan during the year and in January 2024 were converted into notional
shares/ADS as at 11 January 2024. For Dr Hal Barron, this includes the PSP award that vested in February 2024, see page 147
(3)The Total interests for Dr Barron have reduced since 31 December 2023 following the vesting of PSP and DABP awards granted to him in his former
executive capacity as CSO. Details of the vesting level for the 2021 PSP is shown on page 147 and the DABP vest relates to the deferral of shares from
the 2021 annual bonus. In addition, on vesting, shares are sold to meet an executive's tax liabilities. Details of his transition from CSO to a Non-
Executive Director are given on page 135 of the 2022 Annual Report
(4)Beneficial interests includes shares/ADS held by the Non-Executive Directors and their PCAs
(5)Notional shares/ADS allocated during the year under the NED plan relates to dividends reinvested during the year
157Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Annual report on remuneration continued
Percentage change in remuneration of Directors
2023 percentage change 2022 percentage change 2021 percentage change 2020 percentage change
Salary/ Salary/ Salary/ Salary/
fees Benefits Bonus fees Benefits Bonus fees Benefits Bonus fees Benefits Bonus
% % % % % % % % % % % %
UK employees(1) 7.1 0.92 34.8 3.0 2.3 44.81 2.0 0.0 4.85 2.5 — 11.0
Executive Directors(2,3)
Emma Walmsley 4.0 61.8 20.1 3.0 (2.2) 38.2 2.0 (5.0) 94.6 8.0 (26.6) (33.4)
Julie Brown — — — — — — — — — — — —
Non-Executive Directors(2,5)
Sir Jonathan Symonds 5.0 200.0 — 0.0 233.3 — 0.0 50.0 — 201.7 0.0 —
Elizabeth McKee Anderson 209.3 — — — — — — — — — — —
Charles Bancroft 2.8 180.0 — 36.7 100.0 — 156.1 — — — — —
Dr Hal Barron(4) 127.1 609.1 — — — — — — — — — —
Dr Anne Beal 2.7 126.7 — 121.7 — — — — — — — —
Wendy Becker — — — — — — — — — — — —
Dr Hal Dietz (3.4) 1900.0 — — — — — — — — — —
Dr Jesse Goodman (27.2) 41.9 — 11.0 34.8 — (5.6) 0.0 — (12.5) (65.2) —
Urs Rohner 12.6 73.9 — 5.9 109.1 — (5.6) 175.0 — 16.3 (69.2) —
Dr Vishal Sikka 131.0 — — — — — — — — — — —
Retired Executive Directors(2)
Iain Mackay (66.7) (71.8) (65.0) 3.0 20.2 32.4 2.0 56.1 94.2 5.6 (11.5) (31.6)
(1) This table is provided in accordance with Schedule 8 of The Companies (Directors’ Remuneration Policy and Directors’ Remuneration Report)
Regulations 2020. The UK employee population was considered to be the most relevant comparison as it most closely reflects the economic
environment encountered by the Executive Directors
(2)Percentage changes have been calculated based on the 2023 Total remuneration table on page 142 for Executive Directors and the 2023 Total fees
table on page 155 for Non-Executive Directors
(3)Further information on Executive Directors’ salary and benefits can be found on page 143
(4)Dr Hal Barron transitioned to a Non-Executive Director role on 1 August 2022
(5)Fees of Non-Executive Directors include fees received as cash and in the form of shares or ADS
Directors and Senior Management
Further information is provided on compensation and interests of Directors and Senior Management as a group (the group).
For this purpose, the group is defined as the Executive and Non-Executive Directors, other members of the GLT and the Company
Secretary. For the financial year 2023, the following table sets out aggregate remuneration for the group for the periods during
which they served in that capacity.
Remuneration for 2023 £
Total compensation paid 37,406,891
Aggregate increase in accrued pension benefits (net of inflation) 6,403
Aggregate payments to defined contribution schemes 1,314,332
During 2023, members of the group were awarded shares and ADS under the company’s various LTI plans, as set out in the table
below. To align the interests of Senior Management with those of shareholders, Executive Directors and GLT members are required
to build and maintain significant holdings of shares in GSK over time. GLT members are required to hold shares to an equivalent
multiple of two times their base salary, and must continue to satisfy these share ownership requirements for a minimum of 12 months
after leaving GSK.
Awards Dividend reinvestment awards
Awarded during 2023 Shares ADS Shares ADS
Performance Share Plan 2,278,202 64,427 258,760 4,236
Deferred Investment Awards(1,2) — — 11,694 328
Share Value Plan(2) 10,050 — — —
(1) Notional shares and ADS
(2)Executive Directors are not eligible to receive Deferred Investment Awards or participate in the Share Value Plan
158Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors and Senior Management continued
At 23 February 2024, the group and their PCAs had the following interests in shares and ADS of the company. Interests awarded
under the various LTI plans are described in Note 45 to the financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’ on pages 260 to 261.
Interests at 23 February 2024 Shares ADS
Owned 3,444,022 558,102
Unexercised options 3,988 —
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 1,179,129 76,130
Performance Share Plan 7,256,570 299,940
Deferred Investment Awards(1,2) 146,847 4,668
Share Value Plan(2) 44,738 —
(1) Notional shares
(2)Executive Directors are not eligible to receive Deferred Investment Awards or participate in the Share Value Plan
Executive Directors’ external appointments
The company recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies. Such
appointments can broaden their knowledge and experience to the benefit of the company. Executive Directors are entitled to
retain any fees received from such appointments.
Emma Walmsley is an independent non-executive director of Microsoft Corporation. During the year, whilst Iain Mackay was a
Director of GSK, he was also an independent Non-Executive Director of National Grid plc.
Service contracts and letters of appointment
The table below sets out the dates of the Executive Directors’ service contracts, which are available at the company’s registered
office and on gsk.com.
Date of contract Effective date Expiry date
Emma Walmsley 29.03.17 01.04.17 30.06.34
Julie Brown 25.09.22 01.05.23 n/a
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment, which are also available to view at the company’s registered office.
Each Non-Executive Director is expected to serve on the Board until the end of the AGM following the third anniversary of their
appointment, provided that they are elected and subsequently re-elected annually. Subject to mutual agreement, they may
serve a further one or two, three year terms, depending on the needs of the Board.
How our Remuneration policy continues to reflect Provision 40 of the UK Corporate Governance
Code (the Code)
The company’s Remuneration policy was approved on 4 May 2022 at GSK’s Annual General Meeting and has operated as intended
in terms of company performance and quantum since its approval. The full policy is available at gsk.com in the Investors section.
Two administrative amendments were approved by shareholders at GSK's 2023 Annual General Meeting, as described on page 163
of the 2022 Annual Report.
Clarity and simplicity: The remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors are set out in a clear and simple way.
Risk: We operate both deferral and post-vesting holding arrangements, in addition to operating malus and clawback provisions
and the Committee has discretion to adjust the award outcomes.
Predictability and proportionality: Our policy defines maximum limits on the total Annual bonus and Long-term incentive
opportunities, and payouts under these elements are linked to fulfilment of performance conditions that support the company’s
publicly stated ambitions and strategy.
Alignment to culture: GSK’s purpose, strategy and culture continue to be directly reflected in the performance conditions set under
the Annual Bonus and Long-term incentive.
.
159Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Operation and scope of Remuneration policy
The Remuneration policy (Policy) is set out on pages 144 to 152 (ii) before the Policy came into effect, provided that the terms of
of the 2021 Annual Report, which is available in the Governance the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved
section at gsk.com. It is intended that the Policy for GSK’s Remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed; or
Executive and Non-Executive Directors will operate for a period
(iii) at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of
of three years from the date of approval at the company’s
the company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the
Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2022.
payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a
The Committee wrote the Policy principally in relation to the Director of the company. For these purposes ‘payments’
remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors, whilst includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable
taking into account the possible recruitment of a replacement remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares or ADS,
or an additional Executive Director during the operation of the the terms of the payment are ‘agreed’ at the time the award is
Policy. The Committee intends the Policy to operate for the granted.
period set out above in its entirety. However, it may after due
Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards are subject to the terms
consideration seek to change the Policy during this period, but
of the PSP plan rules under which the award has been granted.
only if it believes it is appropriate to do so for the long-term
The Committee may adjust or amend awards only in
success of the company, after consultation with shareholders
accordance with the provisions of the plan rules. This includes
and having sought shareholder approval at a general meeting.
making adjustments to reflect one-off corporate events, such as
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration a change in the company’s capital structure.
payments and/or payments for loss of office (including
The Committee may also make minor amendments to the
exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such
Policy (for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative
payments) notwithstanding that they are not in line with the
purposes or to take account of a change in legislation) without
Policy where the terms of the payment were agreed:
obtaining shareholder approval for such amendments.
(i) before the AGM on 7 May 2014 (the date the company’s first
shareholder-approved Directors’ Remuneration policy came
into effect);
Basis of preparation
The Annual report on remuneration has been prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and The Large and
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports)
(Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations). In
accordance with the Regulations, the following parts of the
Annual report on remuneration are subject to audit: total
remuneration figures for Executive Directors including further
details for each element of remuneration (salary, benefits,
pension, Annual Bonus and Long-term incentive awards); Non-
Executive Directors’ fees and emoluments received in the year;
Directors’ interests in shares, including interests in GSK share
plans; payments to past Directors; payments for loss of office;
and share ownership requirements and holdings, for which the
opinion thereon is expressed on page 179. The remaining
sections of the Annual report on remuneration are not subject
to audit nor are the pages referred to from within the audited
sections.
The Annual report on remuneration has been approved by the
Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
Urs Rohner
Remuneration Committee Chair
27 February 2024
160Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Directors' report
Directors' powers Independent advice
GSK Directors’ powers are determined by UK legislation and our The company has an agreed procedure for Directors to take
Articles of Association, which contain rules about their independent legal and/or financial advice at the company’s
appointment and replacement. They provide that Directors expense where they deem it necessary.
may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or
Indemnification of Directors
by a resolution of the Board. If appointed by the Board, the
Director must retire at the next Annual General Meeting to be Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in the
elected by shareholders Companies Act 2006) are in force for the benefit of Directors
and former Directors who held office during 2023 and up to the
Our Articles also provide that all Directors are required to seek
approval and signature of the Annual Report.
re-election annually at our Annual General Meeting in
accordance with the FRC's Code. Change of control and essential contracts
A Director will then cease to be a Director if he or she: We do not have contracts or other arrangements which
individually are fundamental to the ability of the business to
–becomes bankrupt
operate effectively. Neither is the company party to any
–ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Act or the
material agreements that would take effect, be altered, or
Articles
terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
–suffers mental or physical ill health and the Board resolves
We do not have agreements with any Director that would
that he or she shall cease to be a Director
provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting
–has missed Directors’ meetings for a continuous period of six from a takeover, except that provisions of the company’s share
months without permission and the Board resolves that he or plans may cause options and awards granted under such plans
she shall cease to be a Director to vest on a takeover.
–is otherwise prohibited from being a Director by law
Details of the termination provisions in the Executive Directors’
–resigns, or offers to resign and the Board accepts that offer
service contracts are given in the full version of the company’s
–is required to resign by the Board
2022 Remuneration policy which is available on gsk.com in the
Directors’ conflicts of interest Investors section.
All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to Content of the Directors’ report
avoid a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or
indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict with the For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the Directors’
company. Our Articles provide a general power for the Board to report of GSK plc for the year ended 31 December 2023
authorise such conflicts. comprises:
The Board reviews any new potential or actual conflict, which is Directors’ report
recorded by the Company Secretary. Directors are not counted
in the quorum for the authorisation of their own actual or Section Pages
potential conflicts. The Nominations & Corporate Governance Corporate governance report 108 to 162
Committee reviews the Register of Potential Conflicts on an
Employee engagement 121
annual basis which the Board subsequently approves.
Directors’ statements of responsibilities 165 and 166
On a continuing basis, the Directors are responsible for
informing the Company Secretary of any such new actual or Investor information 273 and 314
potential conflicts that may arise or if there are any changes in
The Strategic report sets out those matters required to be
circumstances that may affect an authorisation previously
disclosed in the Directors’ report which are considered to be of
given. Even when provided with authorisation, a Director is not
strategic importance:
absolved from his or her statutory duty to promote the success
of the company. If an actual conflict arises post-authorisation, Strategic report
the Board may choose to exclude the Director from receipt of
the relevant information and participation in the debate, or Section Pages
suspend the Director from the Board, or, as a last resort, require Risk management objectives and policies 57 to 76 and
the Director to resign. 284 to 294
The Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee Likely future developments of the company 1 to 106
reviewed the Register of Potential Conflict authorisations (the Research and development activities 16 to 30
Register of Potential Conflicts) in January 2024. The Committee
Business relationships 46 to 55
reported to the Board that the conflicts had been appropriately
authorised and that the process for authorisation continued to Diversity 52 and 53
operate effectively. The Committee then recommended the
Provision of information to and consultations with 14, 15, 52 and
approval of the Register of Potential Conflicts to the Board employees 53
which it subsequently approved. Except as described in Note 40
Carbon emissions 49 to 52
to the financial statements, ‘Related party transactions’, during
or at the end of the financial year no Director or Person Closely Section 172 statement 123 to 127
Associated had any material interest in any contract of
significance with a Group company.
Our Articles prohibit a Director from voting on any resolution
concerning his or her appointment or the terms or termination
of his or her appointment.
161Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Directors' report continued
The following information is also incorporated into the Directors’
report:
Location in Annual Report
Interest capitalised Financial statements,
Notes 17 and 20
Particulars of important post-balance Financial statements,
sheet events of the company or its Note 48
subsidiaries
Publication of unaudited financial Group financial review
information
Details of any long-term incentive Remuneration report
schemes
Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable
Waiver of future emoluments by a DirectorNot applicable
Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
by any unlisted major subsidiary
undertaking
Parent company participation in a placing Not applicable
by a listed subsidiary
Provision of services by a controlling Not applicable
shareholder
Shareholder waiver of dividends Financial statements,
Notes 16 and 45
Shareholder waiver of future dividends Financial statements,
Notes 16 and 45
Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable
The Directors’ report
–has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in
reliance upon English company law and the liabilities of the
Directors in connection with that Report shall be subject to
the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
–was approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2024
and signed on its behalf by:
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chair
27 February 2024
162GSK Annual Report 2023
Financial
statements
In this section
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 164
Independent Auditor’s report 166
Financial statements 180
Notes to the financial statements 184
Financial statements of GSK plc
prepared under UK GAAP 267
163Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Directors' statement of responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
the Remuneration report and the Group and parent company records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any
regulations. time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to
ensure that the Group financial statements and the
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
statements for each financial year. The Directors are required
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the
to prepare the Group consolidated financial statements in
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention
accordance with UK-adopted international accounting
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
standards in conformity with the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006 and the International Financial Reporting The Group financial statements for the year ended
Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting 31 December 2023, comprising principal statements and
Standards Board (IASB). The Directors have elected to prepare supporting notes, are set out in the ‘Financial statements’ on
the parent company financial statements in accordance with pages 180 to 266 of this report. The parent company financial
United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law statements for the year ended 31 December 2023, comprising
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) the balance sheet and the statement of changes in equity for
(Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure the year ended 31 December 2023 and supporting notes, are
Framework). Under company law the Directors must not set out on pages 267 to 271.
approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that
The responsibilities of the auditor in relation to the financial
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group
statements are set out in the Independent Auditor’s report on
and its profit or loss for that period. In preparing the financial
pages 166 to 179.
statements, the Directors are required to:
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023
–select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
are included in the Annual Report, which is published in printed
consistently;
form and made available on our website. The Directors are
–make judgements and accounting estimates that are
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate
reasonable and prudent;
and financial information included on the company’s website.
–state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS,
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation
as issued by the IASB and in conformity with the
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from
requirements of the Companies Act 2006;
legislation in other jurisdictions.
–state with regard to the parent company financial
statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed listed in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual
and explained in the parent company financial statements; Report 2023 confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge:
and
–the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in
–prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the and in conformity with the requirements of Companies Act
parent company will continue in business. 2006, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities,
In preparing the Group financial statements, International financial position and profit of the Group;
Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors properly select –the strategic report and risk sections of the Annual Report,
and apply accounting policies; present information, including which represent the management report, include a fair
accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, review of the development and performance of the business
reliable, comparable and understandable information; provide and the position of the company and the Group taken as a
additional disclosures when compliance with the specific whole, together with a description of the principal risks and
requirements in IFRS Standards are insufficient to enable users uncertainties that it faces; and
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other –the Annual Report and financial statement, taken as a whole,
events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the
financial performance; and make an assessment of the information necessary for shareholders to assess the
company’s ability to continue as a going concern. company’s position and performance, business model and
strategy.
164Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Directors' statement of responsibilities continued
Disclosure of information to auditor The 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code
The Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report have The Board considers that GSK plc applies the principles and
each confirmed that: complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance
Code maintained by the Financial Reporting Council, as
–so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit
described in the Corporate Governance section on pages 118 to
information of which the company’s auditor is unaware; and
138. The Board further considers that the Annual Report, taken
–he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides
taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the
relevant audit information and to establish that the
Group’s position and performance, business model and
company’s auditor is aware of that information.
strategy.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in
As required by the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules,
accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies
the auditor has considered the Directors’ statement of
Act 2006.
compliance in relation to those points of the UK Corporate
Going concern basis Governance Code which are specified for their review.
Pages 78 to 106 and pages 62 to 69 contain information on the Annual Report
performance of the Group, its financial position, cash flows, net
The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2023,
debt position, borrowing facilities and climate related risks.
comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration
Further information, including Treasury risk management
report, the Financial statements and Additional information for
policies, exposures to market and credit risk and hedging
investors, has been approved by the Board of Directors and
activities, is given in Note 44, 'Financial instruments, and related
signed on its behalf by
disclosures' to the financial statements. Having assessed the
principal risks and other matters considered in connection with
the viability statement, the Directors considered it appropriate
to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing
the financial statements. Sir Jonathan Symonds
Internal control Chair
27 February 2024
The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed
the assessment of risks and the internal control framework that
operates in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the
system of internal control in operation in the Group for the year
covered by this Annual Report and up to the date of its
approval by the Board of Directors. Further detail on the review
of internal controls is set out in the Governance report on page
134.
165Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Independent Auditor's report to the members of GSK plc
Report on the audit of the financial statements
1. Opinion 2. Basis for opinion
In our opinion: We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our
–The financial statements of GSK plc (the ‘Parent company’)
responsibilities under those standards are further described in
and its subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) give a true and fair view of
the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial
the state of the Group’s and of the Parent company’s affairs
statements section of our report.
as at 31 December 2023 and of the Group’s profit for the year
then ended; We are independent of the Group and the Parent company in
–The Group financial statements have been properly prepared accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
in accordance with United Kingdom adopted international our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the
accounting standards and International Financial Reporting Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’) Ethical Standard as
Standards (IFRSs) as issued by the International Accounting applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our
Standards Board (IASB); other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these
–The Parent company financial statements have been requirements. We confirm that we have not provided any non-
properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard to the
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including FRS 101 Group or the Parent company, as noted in the Audit & Risk
“Reduced Disclosure Framework”; and Committee report within the Corporate Governance section of
–The financial statements have been prepared in accordance the Annual Report on page 133 and the disclosure provided in
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. Note 8 regarding fees payable to the Group’s auditor.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Group
–Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2023; 3. Summary of our audit approach
–Consolidated income statement for the year then ended;
Key audit matters
–Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for
the year then ended; The key audit matters that we identified in the current year
were:
–Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year
then ended; –Valuation of the ViiV Healthcare Shionogi contingent
consideration liability
–Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then
ended; and –Valuation of US Returns and Rebates (RAR) accruals
–Valuation of other intangible assets
–Notes 1 to 48 to the financial statements, which includes
the material accounting policy information. –Valuation of uncertain tax positions, including transfer pricing
Parent company –Valuation of the contingent liabilities and significant legal
proceedings.
–Balance sheet as at 31 December 2023;
–Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended;
Materiality
and
–The materiality that we used for the group financial
–Notes A to L to the financial statements, which includes
statement was £280 million (2022: £210 million) which was
the material accounting policy information.
determined on the basis of Statutory profit before tax,
Adjusted profit before tax, Revenue and Net cash flows from
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the operations.
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law,
United Kingdom adopted international accounting standards Scoping
and IFRSs as issued by the IASB. The financial reporting
–The following components were subject to audit procedures
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the
as well as the assessment of the effectiveness of internal
Parent company financial statements is applicable law and
controls over financial reporting: Belgium, Canada, China,
United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101
France, Germany, Italy, Japan, United Kingdom and the
“Reduced Disclosure Framework” (United Kingdom Generally
United States.
Accepted Accounting Practice).
Our audit scope addressed 80% (2022: 79%) of the Group’s
revenue, 92% (2022: 91%) of the Group’s profit before tax and
76% (2022: 86%) of the Group’s total assets.
Significant changes in our approach
–We have removed the key audit matters relating to the
Consumer Healthcare demerger and IT systems that impact
financial reporting.
166Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Independent Auditor's report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
4. Conclusions relating to going concern 5. Key audit matters
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional
the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the
the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate. financial statements of the current period and include the most
significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or
Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the Group’s and not due to fraud) that we identified. These matters included
Parent company’s ability to continue to adopt the going those which had the greatest effect on the overall audit
concern basis of accounting included: strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing
the efforts of the engagement team.
–Enquiries of the Group directors and management regarding
the assumptions used in the going concern models, including These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the
the potential impact of climate change; financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion on
–Evaluating the Group’s existing access to sources of the financial statements as a whole, we do not provide a
financing, including undrawn committed bank facilities, separate opinion on these matters.
including the impact of changes in interest rates on
We have removed two key audit matters in 2023; the Consumer
profitability;
Healthcare Demerger key audit matter following the
–Reading analyst reports, industry data and other external
completion of the demerger in the prior year, and the key audit
information, including understanding the macroeconomic
matter relating to IT systems that impact financial reporting
environment, to determine if it provided corroborative or
following the remediation of control deficiencies relating to
contradictory evidence in relation to assumptions used;
governance and operation of infrastructure privileged access
–Comparing forecasted sales to recent historical financial
management in the prior year.
information;
–Testing the underlying data generated to prepare the
forecast scenarios and determined whether there was
adequate support for the assumptions underlying the
forecast; and
–Evaluating the Group’s disclosures on going concern against
the requirements of IAS 1.
Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified
any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that,
individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the
Group’s and Parent company’s ability to continue as a going
concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the
financial statements are authorised for issue.
In relation to the reporting on how the Group has applied the
UK Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing material to
add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors’ statement
in the financial statements about whether the Directors
considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of
accounting.
Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Directors with
respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections
of this report.
167Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Independent Auditor's report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of the ViiV Healthcare Shionogi contingent Audit procedures performed
consideration liability
We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others,
The Group has completed a number of significant transactions related primarily to the sales forecasts:
which resulted in the recognition of material contingent
–Tested the controls over the key inputs and assumptions
consideration liabilities, which are a key source of estimation
used in the valuation of the contingent consideration
uncertainty. The most significant of these liabilities was the ViiV
liability, including review controls over the sales forecasts of
Healthcare Shionogi Contingent Consideration Liability (ViiV
the treatment product portfolio used to value the ViiV CCL;
CCL).
–Obtained the Group’s assessment of the key inputs and
The Group completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% assumptions used in the sales forecasts and challenged the
interest in the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012. reasonableness of these, including through enquiries of key
Upon completion, the Group recognised a contingent individuals from the senior leadership team, commercial
consideration liability for the fair value of the expected future strategy team and key personnel involved in the budgeting
payments to be made to Shionogi. As at 31 December 2023 the and forecasting process, and inspection of supporting
liability was valued at £5,718 million. evidence;
–Challenged the US volume assumptions made by the Group
We identified the ViiV CCL as a key audit matter because of
to estimate sales forecasts. This involved benchmarking
the significant estimates and assumptions relating to the sales
forecast market share data against external data, such as
forecasts used in valuing the ViiV CCL and the sensitivity of the
total prescription volumes and new patient prescription
valuation to these inputs. The most significant of these relate to
volumes, in order to assess for any sources of contradictory
sales forecasts in the United States (US) on certain products in
evidence;
the treatment and prevention portfolio. Such forecasts are
–Challenged the reasonableness of US pricing assumptions
based on an assessment of the expected launch dates for
by the Group, by comparing the forecasted Returns and
pipeline assets, the ability to shift market practice and
Rebates rate by product against the current rate, and
prescriber behaviour towards long-acting injectable
assessing the forecasted Returns and Rebates against
treatments and 2-drug regimens, the size of long-acting
comparable products considering expected changes in
prevention market and subsequent sales volumes. There is
payer policy;
incremental challenge in forecasting sales associated with
–Considered the results of clinical studies undertaken in the
recently launched products due to the lack of historical actual
year by the Group and key competitors in order to assess
data. The sales forecasts also required significant audit effort
whether these are corroborative or contradictory to
to perform appropriate audit procedures to challenge and
assumptions used in the product portfolio sales forecasts in
evaluate the reasonableness of those forecasts.
the US;
Contingent consideration liabilities, including the ViiV CCL, are –Benchmarked the Group’s sales forecasts against those
disclosed as a key source of estimation uncertainty in Note 3, included in reports from nine analysts and considered sales
of the Group financial statements with further disclosures forecasts on both a total ViiV basis and an individual
provided in Note 33. The matter is also discussed in the Audit & product basis, assessing against identified contradictory
Risk Committee report within the Corporate Governance data; and
section of the Annual Report. –Together with our valuations specialists, assessed the
reasonableness of the overall valuation methodology,
including benchmarking the discount rate used and testing
the valuation model for mechanical accuracy.
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk
Committee
The sales forecasts used in the valuation are reasonable and in
line with relevant supporting information. We are satisfied that
the sales forecasts appropriately reflect trends in the overall
HIV treatment and prevention markets including the impacts
of competition, healthcare reform and a predicted shift
towards long-acting injectable products.
The approach to valuing the ViiV CCL was consistent with prior
periods and overall we are satisfied that the valuation liability
is reasonable and consistent with IFRS.
168Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Independent Auditor's report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of US Returns and Rebates (RAR) accruals Audit procedures performed
In the US, the Group sells to customers under various We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others,
commercial and government mandated contracts and related to estimates in the RAR accruals:
reimbursement arrangements that include rebates,
–Tested the key controls over the estimation of RAR accruals
chargebacks and a right of return for certain pharmaceutical
including the controls associated with the forecasting of
products. As such, revenue recognition reflects gross-to-net
utilisation rates process and the month-end accrual review
sales adjustments. These adjustments are known as the
controls;
Returns and Rebates (RAR) accruals and are a source of
–Challenged assumptions for a selection of utilisation rates,
significant estimation uncertainty which could have a material
focusing on certain products where we concluded the
impact on reported revenue.
accrual is most sensitive to these assumptions. Our
In the US Commercial business in 2023, £16,539 million of RAR challenge included comparison to historical utilisation rates,
deductions were made to gross revenue of £32,359 million, consideration of historical accuracy and assessment of how
resulting in net revenue of £15,820 million. The balance sheet market changes such as the impact of competition, new
accrual at 31 December 2023 for the US Commercial business product launches, changes in government legislation and
amounted to £5,951 million. macroeconomic factors are appropriately reflected in the
RAR accruals;
The four most significant payer channels (also referred to as
–Supplemented this with substantive analytical procedures
buying groups) to which the RAR accrual relates are managed
by developing an independent expectation of the accrual
healthcare organisations, Medicaid, Ryan White and Medicare
balance for each of the key segments, based on historical
Part D.
claims received adjusted to reflect market changes in the
The two main causes of significant estimation uncertainty are: period including an assessment of the time lag between the
initial point of sale and the claim receipt. We then
–The utilisation rate, which is the portion of total sales that
compared this independent expectation to those recorded
will be made into each payer channel, estimated in
to evaluate the appropriateness of the year ending accrual
recording the accruals. The utilisation assumption is the
position;
most challenging of the key assumptions used to derive the
–Considered the historical accuracy of estimates and
accrual given that it is influenced by market demand and
evaluated whether forecast assumptions had been
other factors outside the control of the Group; and
appropriately updated in a selection of cases where the
–The time lag between the point of sale and the point at
actual rebate claims differed to the amount accrued;
which exact rebate amounts are known to the Group upon
–Evaluated the appropriateness of, and completeness of,
receipt of a claim. Those payer channels with the longest
period-end adjustments to the liability made as part of the
time lag result in a greater accrued period, and therefore, a
ongoing review of the estimated accrual; and
greater level of estimation uncertainty in estimating the
period-end accrual. –Performed audit procedures over the actual rebate
payments made in the year by agreeing to the relevant
The level of estimation uncertainty is also impacted by contract to assess whether the rebate payments were in line
significant shifts in channel mix driven by changes in the with the contractual terms.
competitive landscape, including competitor and generic
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk
product launches, changes in government legislation and other
Committee
macroeconomic factors. As such, we focus on the utilisation
assumptions for those products where we deem the level of We are satisfied that the estimated liability of the RAR accruals
estimation uncertainty to be the most significant. at the year-end is appropriate. We observed a level of
prudence in the estimate when assessing against our own
We also focus on the period-end adjustments made to the
independent expectations, which is in accordance with the
RAR accruals. These adjustments reflected updates made to
requirements of IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with
the initial assumptions included within the forecasted RAR
customers to limit the risk of a significant reversal of revenue.
rates and, in our view, present the greatest opportunity for
fraud in revenue recognition (notwithstanding the existence of
internal controls).
US Commercial Operations returns and rebates are disclosed
as a key source of estimation uncertainty in Note 3 of the
Group financial statements with further disclosures provided in
Note 29. The matter is also discussed in the Audit & Risk
Committee report within the Corporate Governance section of
the Annual Report.
169Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Independent Auditor's report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of other intangible assets Audit procedures performed
As at 31 December 2023, the Group held £14,166 million of We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others,
other intangible assets (including licenses, patents, trademarks, over the forecast sales pricing, volume, growth rates,
and trade names, but excluding goodwill and computer probability of technical and regulatory success, profit margin
software). This includes £1,438 million of intangible assets levels, and discount rates used in the assessment of the
acquired as part of the acquisition of Bellus Health during the valuation of other intangible assets, such as those acquired as
year. part of the Group’s acquisition of Bellus Health:
Intangible assets which are in-development and not available –Tested review controls over the key inputs and assumptions
for use should be tested at least annually for impairment used in the valuation of other intangible assets. The controls
irrespective of whether an indication of impairment exists. encompass review of the valuation models, which contain a
number of assumptions such as the probability of technical
When the carrying amount of an individual intangible asset, or
and regulatory success, launch dates plus other revenue
an cash-generating unit to which an intangible asset belongs,
and cost assumptions;
exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment occurs.
–Inquired with key individuals from the corporate
Recoverability of an intangible asset is derived from certain
development team, commercial forecasting leads, and key
assumptions and estimates of future trading performance
personnel involved in the assets research and development
which create significant estimation uncertainty.
process. We used the outcome of these inquiries to evaluate
The underlying assumptions include forecast sales pricing, the Group’s evidence to support key assumptions such as
volume, growth rates and probability of technical and overall sales forecasts, peak year sales (including
regulatory success of ongoing clinical trials. This includes anticipated market share, volume and uptake alongside
assumptions on timing of cash flows determined by price points where required), foreseeable competitive
anticipated launch year, peak year sales, subsequent sales landscape, growth rates, probability of regulatory and
erosion due to generic product competition and profit margin technical success and margins;
levels. In addition, due to the impact of uncertainty driven by –Evaluated the key inputs and assumptions applied in
ongoing global macroeconomic volatility, the valuation of estimating sales and profit margin forecasts, including
intangible assets will also be affected by discount rate benchmarking of forecasts against external market data.
assumptions made by the Group. This included independent market research of therapeutic
area price points, price growth rates, and anticipated
During 2023, impairment charges of £398 million were
competitor market landscape, currently and at the time of
recorded. These were primarily full impairments due to
forecast regulatory approval, plus assessment of any
cessation of research and development dictated by negative
sources of contradictory evidence;
clinical trial readouts or lack of commercial attractiveness.
–Compared the forecast sales and profit margin levels to the
We identified the valuation of other intangible assets as a key Plan data (asset by asset internal forecasts) approved by
audit matter due to the inherent judgements involved in the GSK Leadership Team and the Board of Directors,
estimating future cash flows. Auditing such assumptions and where the in-development intangible asset is forecast to
estimates required extensive audit effort to challenge and launch within the next 3-year period;
evaluate the reasonableness of forecasts and management –Assessed the historical accuracy of sales forecasts by
judgements. performing retrospective reviews across marketed assets
within the business;
The disclosures relating to other intangible assets, including
–Engaged our fair valuation specialists to assess the
those acquired as part of business combinations, are included
reasonableness of discount rates and valuation
in Note 20 and Note 41 of the Group financial statements. The
methodology applied as well as performing mechanical
matter is also discussed in the Audit & Risk Committee report
accuracy checks; and
within the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report.
–Considered whether events or transactions that occurred
. after the balance sheet date, but before the reporting date,
affect the conclusions reached on the carrying values of the
assets and associated disclosures.
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk
Committee
For those intangible assets which were acquired during the
period as part of the Bellus Health business acquisition we
concluded that the assumptions underpinning the fair value of
intangible assets reflected in the purchase price allocations
were reasonable and in accordance with IFRS.
For those intangible assets in-development and subject to
impairment reviews we concluded that the judgements made
by management were reasonable and in accordance with
IFRS.
170Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Independent Auditor's report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of uncertain tax positions, including transfer pricing Audit procedures performed
The Group operates in numerous jurisdictions and there are With the support of our tax specialists, we assessed the
open tax and transfer pricing matters and exposures with UK, appropriateness of the uncertain tax provisions, focused on
US and overseas tax authorities that give rise to uncertain tax those jurisdictions where the Group has the greatest potential
positions. There is a wide range of possible outcomes for exposure and where the highest level of judgement is required,
provisions and contingencies. Certain judgements in respect of by performing the following audit procedures amongst others:
estimates of tax exposures and contingencies are required in
–Tested key controls over preparation, review and reporting
order to assess the adequacy of tax provisions, which are
of judgmental tax balances and transactions, which include
sometimes complex as a result of the considerations required
provisions for uncertain tax provisions;
over multiple tax laws and regulations.
–Assessed the assumptions and judgements that are
At 31 December 2023, the Group has recorded provisions of required to determine the range of possible outcomes for
£584 million in respect of uncertain tax positions. recognition and measurement of provisions for uncertain
tax positions in compliance with the requirements of IFRIC
Valuation of uncertain tax positions is disclosed as a key source
23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments;
of estimation uncertainty in Note 3 of the Group financial
–Involved our transfer pricing specialists to evaluate the
statements with further disclosures included in Note 14. The
transfer pricing methodology of the Group and associated
matter is also discussed in the Audit & Risk Committee report
approach to provision recognition and measurement; and
within the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report.
–Considered evidence such as the actual results from the
recent tax authority audits and enquiries, third-party tax
advice obtained by the Group and our tax specialists’ own
knowledge of market practice in relevant jurisdictions.
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk
Committee
We are satisfied that the estimates in relation to uncertain tax
positions and the related disclosures are in accordance with
IFRS. From our work we concluded that a consistent approach
has been applied to estimating uncertain tax provisions which
is appropriate and in accordance with IFRIC 23.
171Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Independent Auditor's report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of the contingent liabilities and significant legal Audit procedures performed
proceedings
We performed the following audit procedures:
The Group operates in an environment where it is subject to
–Tested the Group’s controls over the completeness of
significant legal and administrative proceedings, including
provisions, the robustness of the provision against the
product liability, intellectual property, tax, anti-trust, consumer
requirements of IAS 37, the appropriateness of judgements
fraud and governmental regulations.
used to determine a ‘best estimate’ and completeness and
The Group is currently exposed to a number of regulatory and accuracy of data used in the process;
litigation matters. The Group’s provision for these matters is
–Evaluated the assessment of the provisions, associated
£267 million at 31 December 2023. Other matters are disclosed
probabilities, and potential outcomes in accordance with
as contingent liabilities where the criteria for recognising a
IAS 37;
provision under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and
Contingent Assets are not met, including the Zantac litigation –Evaluated the methodology, data and significant
described in Note 47. judgements and assumptions used in the valuation of the
provisions are appropriate in the context of the applicable
Significant judgement is required by the Group in determining
financial reporting framework;
whether, under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and
Contingent Assets, in particular in relation to the Zantac –Inquired with and inspected correspondence from the
litigation, as to: Group’s internal and external counsel to assess the litigation
matter and evaluate the Group’s significant judgements
–Whether the outcome will result in a probable outflow,
and assumptions;
particularly where the outcome of litigation is uncertain and
subject to additional court proceedings; –Where no provision was made for actual or expected trial
outcomes or settlements, evaluated the Group’s conclusion,
–The determination of a reliable estimate can be made of
supportive and contradictory evidence and the
the amounts of the obligation; and
requirements of IAS 37, particularly with respect to the
–The nature and extent of any contingent liabilities and Zantac litigation;
underlying significant estimation uncertainties disclosed.
–Read board minutes and settlement agreements to
Contingent liabilities and significant legal proceedings are evaluate management’s approach in respect of the
disclosed in Notes 35 and 47, respectively. The key audit matter litigation, and agreed the terms and conditions of such
is discussed within the Corporate Governance section of the arrangements to the payments made to evaluate provisions
Annual Report. already recorded and whether there is a requirement for
additional provisions;
–In respect of the Zantac litigation, inspected the evidence
presented in relevant scientific studies and the outcomes of
other product liability litigation in the same jurisdictions
alongside the entity’s assessment of possible outcomes of
each ongoing trial and expectation of which trials will go
ahead as per the schedule of future trials; and
–Evaluated whether the disclosures made in the financial
statements appropriately reflect the facts and critical
accounting judgements.
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk
Committee
We are satisfied that the estimation of the provisions and
contingent liability disclosures are consistent with the
requirements of IAS 37.
172Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Independent Auditor's report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
6 Our application of materiality
We set performance materiality at a level lower than materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the
to reduce the probability that, in aggregate, uncorrected and
financial statements that makes it probable that the economic
undetected misstatements exceed the materiality for the
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be
financial statements as a whole. Group and Parent company
changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the
performance materiality was set at 70% of Group and Parent
scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our
materiality respectively for the 2023 audit (2022:70%). In
work.
determining performance materiality, we considered factors
Based on our professional judgement, we determined
including:
materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
–Our risk assessment, including our assessment of the Group’s
Parent company overall control environment and that we consider it
Group financial statements financial statements
appropriate to rely on controls over a number of business
Materiality £280 million £280 million
processes; and
(2022: £210 million) (2022: £52.5 million)
Basis for In determining our benchmark for Materiality was –Our past experience of the audit, which has indicated a low
determining materiality, we considered the determined using the number of corrected and uncorrected misstatements
materiality metrics used by investors and total assets identified in prior periods.
other readers of the financial benchmark capped
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would
statements. In particular, we at 100% (2022: 25%)
report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £10
considered: Statutory profit of Group materiality.
before tax, Adjusted profit before Our materiality million (2022: £10 million) as well as any differences below this
tax, Revenue and Net cash flows represents 0.62% of threshold, which in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative
from operations. total assets. grounds. We also report to the Audit & Risk Committee on
disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall
Using professional judgement, we presentation of the financial statements.
have determined materiality to
be £280 million. See below for
how our materiality compares to
our benchmark metrics.
Metric %
Statutory profit before tax 4.62%
Adjusted profit before tax* 3.45%
Revenue 0.92%
Net cash inflow from
4.14%
operating activities
* A reconciliation between the
Statutory profit before tax and
Adjusted profit before tax is
detailed in the Adjusting Items
section of the strategic report.
Rationale Given the importance of the The strength of the
for the above metrics used by investors balance sheet is the
benchmark and other readers of the financial key measure of
applied statements, we concluded financial health that is
`Statutory profit before tax` to be important to
the primary benchmark. The shareholders since the
adjusted profit before tax, primary concern for
Revenue and Net cash inflow the Parent company
from operating activities, have is the payment of
been used as supporting dividends. Using a
benchmarks. benchmark of total
assets is therefore the
The component materiality appropriate metric.
allocated to the in-scope
components ranged between The current year
£66 million and £196 million materiality has been
(2022: between £40 million and increased to reflect
£125 million). the size, scale and
nature of the Parent
company. Where
account balances are
audited for the
purpose of the
consolidated financial
statements, a lower
component
materiality is used.
173Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Independent Auditor's report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
7. Audit scope and execution
We structured our approach to the audit to reflect how the –Audit work performed at global shared service centres
Group is organised and ensured our audit was both effective A significant amount of the Group’s operational processes
and risk focused. that cover financial reporting is undertaken in shared service
centres. Our Group audit team included senior individuals
The central control and common systems throughout the Group
responsible for each of the global processes who coordinated
enables us to deploy and utilise technology and data analytics
our audit work at the shared service centres utilising a live
across the breadth of the Group, enabling a more detailed
global project management platform. This structure enables
understanding of the flow of transactions, enabling us to focus
us to develop a good understanding of the end-to-end
our risk assessment and design targeted audit testing
processes that supported material account balances, classes
procedures.
of transactions and disclosures within the Group financial
We embed technology throughout our audit to improve quality statements. We then evaluated the effectiveness of internal
and effectiveness, including in the areas of planning and controls over financial reporting for these processes and
scoping, project management, risks and controls assessment, considered the implications for the remainder of our audit
substantive testing and reporting insights to management and work;
the Audit and Risk Committee. We have piloted the use of –Audit work executed at component level and individual legal
artificial intelligence powered tools as we continue to invest in entities. The following components were subject to audit
our use of technology across the audit. procedures as well as the assessment of the effectiveness of
internal controls over financial reporting: Belgium, Canada,
Our audit approach can be summarised into the following
China; France, Germany, Italy, Japan, United Kingdom and
areas that enabled us to obtain the evidence required to form
the United States. The Group audit team was in active
an opinion on the Group and Parent company financial
dialogue throughout the audit with the component audit
statements:
teams responsible for the audit work under the direction and
–Risk assessment and audit planning at a Group level. Our risk supervision of the Group audit team. This included
assessment procedures considered, amongst other factors, determining whether the work was planned and performed in
the impact of climate change and the wider macroeconomic accordance with the overall Group audit strategy and the
environment on the account balances, disclosures and requirements of our Group audit instructions to the
company practices. Our data analytical tools allow us to components. As part of supervising the work of the
scrutinise large transactional data sets for unusual trends, components, senior Group audit team members visited
characteristics, outliers or transaction flows to support our Belgium, USA, UK and China, as well as the shared service
identification of audit risks. For example, we analysed US RAR centre audits for Malaysia and Poland. To satisfy ourselves
data by product and payment channel to identify products that our oversight and supervision was appropriate we
where there are high values of total rebate deductions performed reviews of audit working papers, increased the
recognised, where there are significant differences on rebate frequency and length of those reviews depending on the
rates offered between payers or where qualitative factors significance and risk of the component and continued to
impacted the brands (see Section 5 - Valuation of US Returns attend the planning and clearance meetings of components;
and Rebates (RAR) accruals). We also used data analytics to
–Audit procedures undertaken at a Group level and on the
determine products and regions where the valuation of the
parent company. In addition to the above, we also performed
ViiV Healthcare Shionogi contingent consideration liability
audit work on the Group and Parent company financial
was most sensitive to the assumptions used (see Section 5 -
statements, including but not limited to the consolidation of
Valuation of the ViiV Healthcare Shionogi contingent
the Group’s results, the preparation of the financial
consideration liability). We appointed partners from the
statements, certain disclosures within the Directors’
Group audit team to lead the global audit of the operating
Remuneration report, litigation provisions and exposures in
segments (commercial operations and research &
addition to entity level and oversight controls relevant to
development), in addition to partners responsible for the
financial reporting. All components or legal entities with
component and legal entity audits in each country. These
annual revenue greater than 1.8% (2022:1.8%) of the total
segment partners met regularly with senior segment
Group revenue were included in our audit scope. The
management to understand the strategy, performance and
components or legal entities not covered by our audit scope
other matters which arose throughout the year that could
were subject to analytical procedures confirming that there
have impacted the financial reporting. In addition, we held
were no significant risks of material misstatement in the
regular meetings with members of the Internal Audit, the
aggregated financial information; and
internal Legal Counsel and the Global Ethics & Compliance
teams to understand their work and to review their reports to –Internal controls testing approach. We tested the
enhance our risk assessment; effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting
across all in-scope entities and entity level controls at the
Group level. Common systems allowed for relevant IT controls
to be tested centrally across all components and we utilised
an automated controls testing tool which was leveraged to
support our testing of both IT controls and automated
business controls. We were able to place reliance on controls
where planned.
Our audit scope addressed 80% (2022:79%) of the Group's
revenue, 92% (2022: 91%) of the Group's profit before tax and
76% (2022: 86%) of the Group's total assets.
174Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Independent Auditor's report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
The impact of climate change on our audit In consultation with our climate change specialists, we:
Climate change has the potential to impact the Group in a –Conducted detailed risk assessment procedures across all in-
number of ways as set out in the strategic report on pages 62 to scope balances and transactions to determine any risks of
70 of the Annual Report and Notes 17, 19 and 20 on pages 207, material misstatement in the financial statements by
209 and 210 of the financial statements. The Group has applying the expected impact of climate change to our
committed to net zero greenhouse gas emissions across the understanding of the business;
Group’s full value chain by 2045.
–Challenged the appropriateness of the Group’s assessment of
In the planning of our audit, we have considered the potential the potential impact of climate change and the impact of
impact of climate change on the Group’s business and its these on the financial statements, including in the area of
financial statements. intangible assets; and
We have sought to understand the Group’s identification and –Used our own assessment of the impact of climate change to
assessment of the potential impacts of climate change, how challenge the Group’s assessment of going concern,
these risks influence the Group’s strategy and their implications including considering the potential impact on future
on the financial statements. performance and availability of financing.
The Group’s assessment focused on the impacts of more As part of our audit procedures, we are required to read and
frequent extreme weather conditions, water scarcity, changes in consider these disclosures to consider whether they are
the political landscape and media focus which has the materially inconsistent with the financial statements or
propensity to cause changes in consumer and market knowledge obtained in the audit. We did not identify any
behaviour; volatility in the costs and availability of materials material inconsistencies as a result of these procedures.
and resources that could impact future financial performance
and asset valuations.
175Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Independent Auditor's report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
8. Other information
The other information comprises the information included in the If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material
Annual Report, other than the financial statements and our misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives
auditor’s report thereon. The Directors are responsible for the rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements
other information contained within the Annual Report. themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the
information, we are required to report that fact.
other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly
stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance We summarise below our work in relation to areas of the other
conclusion thereon. information including those areas upon which we are
specifically required to report:
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing
so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge
obtained in course of the audit or otherwise appears to be
materially misstated.
Matters we are specifically required to report
Our responsibility Our reporting
Principal risks and viability statement As set out in the “Corporate governance statement”
section, we have nothing material to report, add or
Review the confirmation and description in the light of the knowledge
draw attention to in respect of these matters.
gathered during the audit, such as through considering the directors’
processes to support the statements made, challenging key judgements
and estimates, consideration of historical forecasting accuracy and
evaluating macro-economic assumptions.
Consider if the statements are aligned with the relevant provisions of the
Code.
Directors’ Remuneration report
As set out in the ‘Opinions on other matters prescribed
Report whether the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be
by the Companies Act 2006’ section, in our opinion,
audited is properly prepared and the disclosures specified by the
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be
Companies Act have been made.
audited has been prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 2006.
Strategic report and directors’ report
As set out in the “Opinions on other matters prescribed
Report whether they are consistent with the audited financial statements
by the Companies Act 2006” section, in our opinion,
and are prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
based on the work undertaken in the course of the
Report if we have identified any material misstatements in either report in audit, the information in these reports is consistent
the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the with the audited financial statements and has been
Parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit. prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.
As referenced on page 70, we have provided limited
assurance in accordance with International Standards
for Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 and ISAE
3410 over selected metrics on page 70.
176Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Independent Auditor's report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Other reporting on other information
Our responsibility Our reporting
Alternative performance measures (APMs)
In our opinion:
APMs are measures that are not defined by generally accepted accounting
practice (GAAP) and therefore are not typically included in the financial –The use, calculation and disclosure of APMs is
statement part of the Annual Report. The Group use APMs, such as consistent with the Group’s published definitions
adjusted profit, free cash flow and constant currency growth rates in its and policies;
reporting of financial performance. –The use of APMs in the Group’s reporting results is
consistent with the guidelines produced by ESMA
We have reviewed and assessed the calculation and reporting of these
and FRC; and
metrics to assess consistency with the Group’s published definitions and
–There is an appropriate balance between the use
policies for these items.
of statutory metrics and APMs, together with clear
We have also considered and assessed whether the use of APMs in the definitions and reconciliation for APMs used in
Group’s reporting results is consistent with the guidelines produced by financial reporting.
regulators such as the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA)
guidelines on the use of APMs and the FRC Alternative Performance
Measures Thematic Review published in October 2021.
We also considered whether there was an appropriate balance between
the use of statutory metrics and APMs, in addition to whether clear
definitions and reconciliation for APMs used in financial reporting have
been provided.
Dividends and distribution policy
In our opinion the dividends policy is appropriately
Consider whether the dividends policy is transparent, and the dividends
disclosed, and dividends paid are consistent with the
paid are consistent with the policy, as outlined in the strategic report on
policy.
page 92.
9. Responsibilities of directors 10. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the
financial statements
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities
statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee
due to fraud or error. that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will
always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
responsible for assessing the Group’s and the Parent company’s
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable,
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of
matters related to going concern and using the going concern
users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to
liquidate the Group or the Parent company or to cease A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at:
www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms
part of our auditor’s report.
177Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Independent Auditor's report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Audit response to risks identified
11. Extent to which the audit was considered
capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud As a result of performing the above, we identified the Valuation
of US Returns and Rebates accruals as a key audit matter
related to the potential risk of fraud. The key audit matters
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance
section of our report explains the matter in more detail and also
with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our
describes the specific procedures in response to that key audit
responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material
matter. In common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also
misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The
required to perform specific procedures to respond to the risk of
extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting
management override.
irregularities, including fraud is detailed below.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to
identified included the following:
irregularities
In identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement in –reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to
respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance supporting documentation to assess compliance with
with laws and regulations, we considered the following: provisions of relevant laws and regulations described as
having a direct effect on the financial statements;
–the nature of the industry and sector, control environment –enquiring of the senior leadership team, the Audit & Risk
and business performance including the design of the Committee and in-house and external legal counsel
Group’s remuneration policies, key drivers for directors’ concerning actual and potential litigation and claims;
remuneration, bonus levels and performance targets;
–performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or
–results of our enquiries of the senior leadership team, internal unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material
audit and the Audit & Risk Committee, including obtaining misstatement due to fraud;
and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the
–reading minutes of meetings of those charged with
Group’s policies and procedures relating to:
governance, reviewing internal audit reports and
–identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and correspondence with regulators; and
regulations and whether they were aware of any instances
–in addressing the risk of fraud through management override
of non-compliance;
of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and
–detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether other adjustments; assessing whether the judgements made
they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential
fraud; and bias; and evaluating the business rationale of any significant
–the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of
fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations. business.
–the matters discussed among the engagement team
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations
including significant component audit teams and involving
and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members and
relevant internal specialists, including tax, valuations,
significant component audit teams and remained alert to any
pensions, IT and industry specialists regarding how and
indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and
where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any
regulations throughout the audit.
potential indicators of fraud.
Report on other legal and regulatory
We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory
frameworks that the Group operates in, focusing on provisions requirements
of those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the
determination of material amounts and disclosures in the 12. Opinions on other matters prescribed by the
financial statements. The key laws and regulations we Companies Act 2006
considered in this context included the provisions of the UK
Companies Act, pensions legislation and tax legislation. We In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to
have also considered key laws and regulations that had a be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the
fundamental effect on the operations of the Group, including Companies Act 2006.
the Good Clinical Practice, the FDA regulations, General Data
Protection requirements, Anti-bribery and corruption policy and In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. the audit:
–the information given in the strategic report and the directors’
report for the financial year for which the financial statements
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
–the strategic report and the directors’ report have been
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group
and of the Parent company and their environment obtained in
the course of the audit, we have not identified any material
misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report.
178Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Independent Auditor's report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Directors’ remuneration
13. Corporate governance statement
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if
The Listing Rules require us to review the directors’ statement in in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration
relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of have not been made or the part of the directors’ remuneration
the corporate governance statement relating to the Group’s report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting
compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate records and returns.
Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have
15. Other matters which we are required to
concluded that each of the following elements of the Corporate
Governance Statement is materially consistent with the address
financial statements and our knowledge obtained during the
audit: Auditor tenure
Following the recommendation of the Audit & Risk Committee,
–the directors’ statement with regards to the appropriateness
with effect from 1 January 2018 we were appointed by the
of adopting the going concern basis of accounting and any
Board of Directors to audit the financial statements for the year
material uncertainties identified set out on page 165;
ended 31 December 2018 and subsequent financial periods. The
–the directors’ explanation as to its assessment of the Group’s
period of total uninterrupted engagement of the firm is six
prospects, the period this assessment covers and why the
years.
period is appropriate is set out on page 76;
–the directors’ statement on fair, balanced and Consistency of the audit report with the additional report
understandable Annual Report set out on page 138; to the Audit & Risk Committee
–the board’s confirmation that it has carried out a robust
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the
assessment of the emerging and principal risks set out on
Audit & Risk Committee we are required to provide in
pages 57 to 61;
accordance with ISAs (UK).
–the section of the Annual Report that describes the review of
effectiveness of risk management and internal control 16. Use of our report
systems set out on pages 134 to 135; and
–the section describing the work of the Audit and Risk This report is made solely to the Parent company’s members, as
committee set out on page 133 to 138. a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so
14. Matters on which we are required to report by
that we might state to the Parent company’s members those
exception matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law,
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than
records the Parent company and the Parent company’s members as a
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to
have formed.
you if, in our opinion:
As required by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Disclosure
–we have not received all the information and explanations we
Guidance and Transparency Rule (DTR) 4.1.15R-DTR 4.1.18R,
require for our audit; or
these financial statements will form part of the Electronic
–adequate accounting records have not been kept by the
Format Annual Financial Report filed on the National Storage
Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not
Mechanism of the FCA in accordance with DTR 4.1.15R-DTR
been received from branches not visited by us; or
4.1.18R. This auditor's report provides no assurance over whether
–the Parent company financial statements are not in the Electronic Format Annual Financial Report has been
agreement with the accounting records and returns. prepared in compliance with DTR 4.1.15R-DTR 4.1.18R.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters. The Parent company has passed a resolution in accordance
with section 506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior
statutory auditor’s name should not be stated.
Deloitte LLP
Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
27 February 2024
179Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2023
2023 2022 2021
Notes £m £m £m
Turnover 6 30,328 29,324 24,696
Cost of sales (8,565) (9,554) (8,163)
Gross profit 21,763 19,770 16,533
Selling, general and administration (9,385) (8,372) (7,070)
Research and development (6,223) (5,488) (5,019)
Royalty income 953 758 417
Other operating income/(expense) 7 (363) (235) (504)
Operating profit 8 6,745 6,433 4,357
Finance income 11 115 76 14
Finance expense 12 (792) (879) (769)
Share of after tax profit/(loss) of associates and joint ventures 13 (5) (2) 33
Profit/(loss) on disposal of interests in associates and joint ventures 13 1 – (36)
Profit before taxation 6,064 5,628 3,599
Taxation 14 (756) (707) (83)
Profit after taxation from continuing operations 5,308 4,921 3,516
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations and other gains/(losses) from the demerger – 3,049 1,580
Re-measurement of discontinued operations distributed to shareholders on demerger – 7,651 –
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations – 10,700 1,580
Total profit after taxation for the year 5,308 15,621 5,096
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests from continuing operations 380 460 200
Profit attributable to shareholders from continuing operations 4,928 4,461 3,316
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests from discontinued operations – 205 511
Profit attributable to shareholders from discontinued operations – 10,495 1,069
5,308 15,621 5,096
Total profit attributable to non-controlling interests 380 665 711
Total profit attributable to shareholders 4,928 14,956 4,385
5,308 15,621 5,096
Basic earnings per share (pence) from continuing operations 15 121.6p 110.8p 82.9p
Basic earnings per share (pence) from discontinued operations – 260.6p 26.7p
Total basic earnings per share (pence) 121.6p 371.4p 109.6p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) from continued operations 15 119.9p 109.2p 81.8p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) from discontinued operations – 257.0p 26.4p
Total diluted earnings per share (pence) 119.9p 366.2p 108.2p
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2023
2023 2022 2021
Notes £m £m £m
Total profit for the year 5,308 15,621 5,096
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to continuing operations income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 38 (22) 113 (339)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries
associates 38 (34) 2 (25)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges (1) (18) 5
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges 1 9 (8)
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement 4 14 12
(52) 120 (355)
Items that will not be reclassified to continuing operations income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests 38 (25) (28) (20)
Fair value movements on equity investments (244) (754) (911)
Tax on fair value movements on equity investments 14 56 131
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges (40) (6) –
Remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans 71 (786) 940
Tax on remeasurement losses/(gains) on defined benefit plans (41) 211 (223)
(265) (1,307) (83)
Other comprehensive income /(expense) for the year from continuing operations 38 (317) (1,187) (438)
Other comprehensive income for the year from discontinued operations – 356 101
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,991 14,790 4,759
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders 4,636 14,153 4,068
Non-controlling interests 355 637 691
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,991 14,790 4,759
180Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 December 2023
2023 2022
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 17 9,020 8,933
Right of use assets 18 937 687
Goodwill 19 6,811 7,046
Other intangible assets 20 14,768 14,318
Investments in associates and joint ventures 21 55 74
Other investments 23 1,137 1,467
Deferred tax assets 14 6,049 5,658
Other non-current assets 24 1,584 1,194
Total non-current assets 40,361 39,377
Current assets
Inventories 25 5,498 5,146
Current tax recoverable 14 373 405
Trade and other receivables 26 7,385 7,053
Derivative financial instruments 44 130 190
Current equity investments 22 2,204 4,087
Liquid investments 30 42 67
Cash and cash equivalents 27 2,936 3,723
Assets held for sale 28 76 98
Total current assets 18,644 20,769
Total assets 59,005 60,146
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 30 (2,813) (3,952)
Contingent consideration liabilities 33 (1,053) (1,289)
Trade and other payables 29 (15,844) (16,263)
Derivative financial instruments 44 (114) (183)
Current tax payable 14 (500) (471)
Short-term provisions 32 (744) (652)
Total current liabilities (21,068) (22,810)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 30 (15,205) (17,035)
Corporation tax payable 14 (75) (127)
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (311) (289)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 31 (2,340) (2,579)
Other provisions 32 (495) (532)
Contingent consideration liabilities 33 (5,609) (5,779)
Other non-current liabilities 34 (1,107) (899)
Total non-current liabilities (25,142) (27,240)
Total liabilities (46,210) (50,050)
Net assets 12,795 10,096
Equity
Share capital 37 1,348 1,347
Share premium account 37 3,451 3,440
Retained earnings 38 7,239 4,363
Other reserves 38 1,309 1,448
Shareholders’ equity 13,347 10,598
Non-controlling interests (552) (502)
Total equity 12,795 10,096
The financial statements on pages 180 to 266 were approved by the Board on 27 February, 2024 and signed on its behalf by
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chair
181Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2023
Shareholders’ equity
Share Share Retained Other Non-controlling Total
capital premium earnings reserves* Total interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 31 December 2020 1,346 3,281 6,755 3,205 14,587 6,221 20,808
Profit for the year – – 4,385 – 4,385 711 5,096
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year – – 454 (771) (317) (20) (337)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year – – 4,839 (771) 4,068 691 4,759
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (642) (642)
Contributions from non-controlling interests – – – – – 7 7
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,999) – (3,999) – (3,999)
Shares issued 1 20 – – 21 – 21
Realised after tax profits on disposal of equity
investments – – 132 (132) – – –
Share of associates and joint ventures realised profits
on disposal of equity investments – – 7 (7) – – –
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (168) 168 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 367 – 367 – 367
Transaction with non-controlling interests – – – – – 10 10
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 11 – 11 – 11
At 31 December 2021 1,347 3,301 7,944 2,463 15,055 6,287 21,342
Profit for the year – – 14,956 – 14,956 665 15,621
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year – – (89) (714) (803) (28) (831)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year – – 14,867 (714) 14,153 637 14,790
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (1,409) (1,409)
Non-cash distribution to non-controlling interests – – – – – (2,960) (2,960)
Contributions from non-controlling interests – – – – – 8 8
Changes to non-controlling interests – – – – – (20) (20)
Deconsolidation of former subsidiaries – – – – – (3,045) (3,045)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,467) – (3,467) – (3,467)
Non-cash dividend to shareholders – – (15,526) – (15,526) – (15,526)
Realised after tax losses on disposal or liquidation of
equity investments – – 14 (14) – – –
Share of associates and joint ventures realised profits
on disposal of equity investments – – 7 (7) – – –
Shares issued – 25 – – 25 – 25
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (911) 911 – – –
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – 114 1,086 (1,200) – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 357 – 357 – 357
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – (8) – (8) – (8)
Hedging gain after taxation transferred to
non-financial assets – – – 9 9 – 9
At 31 December 2022 1,347 3,440 4,363 1,448 10,598 (502) 10,096
Profit for the year – – 4,928 – 4,928 380 5,308
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year – – (45) (247) (292) (25) (317)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year – – 4,883 (247) 4,636 355 4,991
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (412) (412)
Contributions from non-controlling interests – – – – – 7 7
Dividends to shareholders – – (2,247) – (2,247) – (2,247)
Realised after tax losses on disposal or liquidation of
equity investments – – (26) 26 – – –
Share of associates and joint ventures realised profits
on disposal of equity investments – – (7) 7 – – –
Shares issued 1 9 – – 10 – 10
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (324) 324 – – –
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – 2 283 (285) – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 307 – 307 – 307
Hedging gain/(loss) after taxation transferred to
non-financial assets – – – 36 36 – 36
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 7 – 7 – 7
At 31 December 2023 1,348 3,451 7,239 1,309 13,347 (552) 12,795
* an analysis of Other reserves is presented as part of Note 38, ‘Movements in equity’.
182Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2023
2023 2022 2021
Notes £m £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit after taxation from continuing operations for the year 5,308 4,921 3,516
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows 42 2,788 3,023 3,733
Cash generated from operations attributable to continuing operations 8,096 7,944 7,249
Taxation paid (1,328) (1,310) (972)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from continuing operating activities 6,768 6,634 6,277
Cash generated from operations attributable to discontinued operations – 932 1,994
Taxation paid from discontinued operations – (163) (319)
Net operating cash flows attributable to discontinued operations – 769 1,675
Total net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 6,768 7,403 7,952
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,314) (1,143) (950)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 28 146 132
Purchase of intangible assets (1,030) (1,115) (1,704)
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 12 196 641
Purchase of equity investments (123) (143) (162)
(Increase)/decrease in liquid investments 72 1 18
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 41 (1,457) (3,108) –
Proceeds from sale of equity investments 1,832 238 202
Contingent consideration paid (11) (79) (114)
Disposal of businesses 41 49 (43) (17)
Investments in associates and joint ventures – (1) (1)
Proceeds from disposal of associates and joint ventures 1 – 277
Interest received 115 64 14
Dividend and distributions from investments 220 – –
Dividends from associates and joint ventures 11 6 9
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from continuing investing activities (1,595) (4,981) (1,655)
Net investing cash flows attributable to discontinued operations – (3,791) (122)
Total net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities (1,595) (8,772) (1,777)
Cash flow from financing activities
Issue of share capital 37 10 25 21
Repayment of long-term loans (144) (1,594) –
Issue of long-term notes 223 1,025 –
Repayment of short-term loans (2,116) (5,074) (2,304)
Net increase in/(repayment of) other short-term loans (333) 1,021 301
Repayment of lease liabilities (197) (202) (181)
Interest paid (766) (848) (772)
Dividends paid to shareholders (2,247) (3,467) (3,999)
Distributions to non-controlling interests (412) (521) (239)
Contributions from non-controlling interests 7 8 7
Other financing items 334 376 40
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from continuing financing activities (5,641) (9,251) (7,126)
Net financing cash flows attributable to discontinued operations – 10,074 (463)
Total net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities (5,641) 823 (7,589)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 43 (468) (546) (1,414)
Cash and bank overdrafts at the beginning of year 3,425 3,819 5,262
Exchange adjustments (99) 152 (29)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts in the year (468) (546) (1,414)
Cash and bank overdrafts at the end of year 2,858 3,425 3,819
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents 2,936 3,723 4,274
Overdrafts (78) (298) (455)
2,858 3,425 3,819
183Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements
1. Presentation of the financial statements
Description of business In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Group
has considered the impact of both physical and transitional
GSK is a global biopharma group which prevents and treats
climate change risks, as well as the plans to mitigate against
disease with vaccines, specialty and general medicines. GSK
these, on the current valuation of assets and liabilities;
focuses on the science of the immune system and the use of
particularly in the context of the risks identified in the Task Force
new platform and data technologies, investing in four core
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”).
therapeutic areas: infectious diseases, HIV, respiratory/
immunology and oncology. The Group does not believe that there is a material impact to
judgements and estimates in relation to climate-related risks
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS
and, as a result, the valuation of the assets or liabilities have not
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance been significantly impacted as at 31 December 2023. The
with UK-adopted international accounting standards in Group has reviewed the recoverable values of property, plant
conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and equipment, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets as
and the International Financial Reporting Standards as issued those are the material balances impacted by climate-related
by the IASB. risks, and the Group’s transition plans to mitigate those risks.
Composition of financial statements One of the climate-related risks identified relates to metered-
dose inhalers (MDI). The Group is addressing this risk by
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling,
transitioning to a lower-carbon propellant. The transition is not
the functional currency of GSK plc, and in accordance with IFRS
expected to have a material impact on the recoverable
accounting presentation. The financial statements comprise:
amount, or estimated useful lives, of related property, plant and
–Consolidated income statement equipment. See Note 17 'Property, plant and equipment' for
further details.
–Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
–Consolidated balance sheet Whilst there is currently no significant medium-term impact
–Consolidated statement of changes in equity expected, the Group is aware of the ever-changing risks
–Consolidated cash flow statement attached to climate change and continues to assess the impact
–Notes to the financial statements. on judgements and estimates, and on the preparation of the
consolidated financial statements.
Composition of the Group
Parent company financial statements
A list of the subsidiaries and associates which, in the opinion of
the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit or net The financial statements of the parent company, GSK plc, have
assets of the Group is given in Note 46, ‘Principal Group been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and with UK
companies’. accounting presentation. The company balance sheet is
presented on page 267 and the accounting policies are given
Financial period on pages 268 to 271.
These financial statements cover the financial year from 1
January to 31 December 2023, with comparative figures for the
financial years from 1 January to 31 December 2022 and, where
appropriate, from 1 January to 31 December 2021.
Accounting principles and policies
The financial statements have been prepared using the
historical cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain
items, as stated in the accounting policies, and on a going
concern basis.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with the Group’s accounting policies approved by the Board
and described in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles and policies’.
Information on the application of these accounting policies,
including areas of estimation and judgement is given in Note 3,
‘Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation
uncertainty’.
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ
from those estimates.
184Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies
Consolidation The part of each payment relating to the original estimate of
the fair value of the contingent consideration on acquisition is
The consolidated financial statements include:
reported within investing activities in the cash flow statement
–the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows, of and the part of each payment relating to the increase in the
the company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts liability since the acquisition date is reported within operating
–the Group’s share of the results and net assets of associates cash flows.
and joint ventures
Where the consideration transferred, together with the non-
–the Group’s share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses controlling interest, exceeds the fair value of the net assets,
of joint operations. liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, the excess is
recorded as goodwill. The costs of effecting an acquisition are
The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up
charged to the income statement in the period in which they
to 31 December each year.
are incurred.
Entities over which the Group has the power to direct the
Goodwill is capitalised as a separate item in the case of
relevant activities so as to affect the returns to the Group,
subsidiaries and as part of the cost of investment in the case of
generally through control over the financial and operating
joint ventures and associates. Goodwill is denominated in the
policies, are accounted for as subsidiaries.
currency of the operation acquired.
Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint control over,
Where the cost of acquisition is below the Group’s interest in the
and rights to, the net assets of entities, the entities are
net assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the
accounted for as joint ventures. Where the Group has the ability
income statement.
to exercise joint control over an arrangement, but has rights to
specified assets and obligations for specified liabilities of the Where not all of the equity of a subsidiary is acquired the non-
arrangement, the arrangement is accounted for as a joint controlling interest is recognised either at fair value or at the
operation. Where the Group has the ability to exercise non-controlling interest’s share of the net assets of the
significant influence over entities, they are accounted for as subsidiary, on a case-by-case basis. Changes in the Group’s
associates. The results and assets and liabilities of associates ownership percentage of subsidiaries are accounted for within
and joint ventures are incorporated into the consolidated equity.
financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
The assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of joint operations Foreign currency translation
are included in the consolidated financial statements in
Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional
accordance with the Group’s rights and obligations. Interests
currency of the Group company at the exchange rate ruling on
acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the Group
the date of transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets and
acquires control and interests sold are de-consolidated from
liabilities are retranslated into the functional currency at rates of
the date control ceases.
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange
Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated differences are included in the income statement.
and no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries
On consolidation, assets and liabilities, including related
until the products are sold to customers outside the Group. The
goodwill, of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures,
relevant proportion of profits on transactions with joint ventures,
are translated into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the
joint operations and associates is also deferred until the
balance sheet date. The results and cash flows of overseas
products are sold to third parties. Transactions with non-
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are translated into
controlling interests are recorded directly in equity. Deferred tax
sterling using average rates of exchange.
relief on unrealised intra-Group profit is accounted for only to
the extent that it is considered recoverable. Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and
the profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries,
Business combinations
associates and joint ventures are translated into Sterling, less
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition exchange differences arising on related foreign currency
accounting method. Identifiable assets, liabilities and borrowings which hedge the Group’s net investment in these
contingent liabilities acquired are measured at fair value at operations, are taken to a separate component of equity within
acquisition date. The consideration transferred is measured at Retained Earnings.
fair value and includes the fair value of any contingent
When translating into Sterling the assets, liabilities, results and
consideration.
cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint
The fair value of contingent consideration liabilities is ventures which are reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary
reassessed at each balance sheet date with changes economies, adjustments are made where material to reflect
recognised in the income statement. Payments of contingent current price levels. Any loss on net monetary assets is charged
consideration reduce the balance sheet liability and as a result to the consolidated income statement.
are not recorded in the income statement.
185Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Revenue Other operating income and royalty income
GSK enters into development and marketing collaborations and
Turnover
out-licences of the Group’s compounds or products to other
The Group receives revenue for supply of goods to external parties. These contracts give rise to fixed and variable
customers against orders received. The majority of contracts consideration from upfront payments, development milestones,
that GSK enters into relate to sales orders containing single sales-based milestones and royalties.
performance obligations for the delivery of pharmaceutical and
vaccine products. The average duration of a sales order is less Income dependent on the achievement of a development
than 12 months. milestone is recognised when it is highly probable that a
significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue
Product revenue is recognised when control of the goods is recognised will not occur, which is usually when the related
passed to the customer. The point at which control passes is event occurs. Sales-based milestone income is recognised when
determined by each customer arrangement, but generally it is highly probable that the sales threshold will be reached.
occurs on delivery to the customer.
Sales-based royalties on a licence of intellectual property are
Product revenue represents net invoice value including fixed not recognised until the relevant product sale occurs.
and variable consideration. Variable consideration arises on the
sale of goods as a result of discounts and allowances given and For all revenue, if the time between the recognition of revenue
accruals for estimated future returns and rebates. Revenue is and payment from the customer is expected to be more than
not recognised in full until it is highly probable that a significant one year and the impact is material, the amount of
reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will consideration is discounted using appropriate discount rates.
not occur. The methodology and assumptions used to estimate Value added tax and other sales taxes are excluded from
rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in the revenue.
light of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past
experience and projected market conditions. Estimates Expenditure
associated with returns and rebates are revisited at each
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services
reporting date or when they are resolved and revenue is
received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
adjusted accordingly. Please refer to Note 3, 'Critical
Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability
accounting judgements and key sources of estimation
in respect of a past event and where the amount of the
uncertainty' for the details on rebates, discounts and
obligation can be reliably estimated. Manufacturing start-up
allowances.
costs between validation and the achievement of normal
The Group has entered into collaborative agreements, typically production are expensed as incurred.
with other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies to
Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged to the
develop, produce and market drug candidates and vaccines
income statement as incurred.
that do not qualify as joint arrangements. When GSK has
control over the commercialisation activities, the Group Shipment costs on inter-company transfers are charged to cost
recognises turnover and cost of sales on a gross basis. Profit of sales; distribution costs on sales to customers are included in
sharing amounts and royalties due to the counterparty are selling, general and administration expenditure.
recorded within cost of sales. Cost of sales includes net
Restructuring costs are recognised and provided for, where
recoveries of cost of £45 million (2022: cost of £1,635 million;
appropriate, in respect of the direct expenditure of a business
2021: cost of £640 million) from profit sharing arrangements
reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well
and royalties due to the counterparty. When the counterparty
advanced, and where appropriate communication to those
controls the commercialisation activities and records the sale,
affected has been undertaken.
the Group is not the principal in the customer contract and
instead records its share of gross profit as co-promotion Software as a service (SaaS) configuration costs are expensed
income, on a net basis, within turnover. The nature of co- as they are incurred where the software being configured is
promotion activities is such that the Group records no costs of controlled by the SaaS provider.
sales. Commercial Operations turnover includes co-promotion
Research and development
revenue of £1 million (2022: £3 million; 2021: £7 million).
Reimbursements to and from the counterparty under Research and development expenditure is charged to the
collaboration agreements for ‘selling, general and income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
administration’ and ‘research and development’ costs are Development expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for
recorded net in the respective lines in the consolidated income recognising an asset are met, usually when a regulatory filing
statement. has been made in a major market and approval is considered
highly probable. Property, plant and equipment used for
research and development is capitalised and depreciated in
accordance with the Group’s policy.
186Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Legal and other disputes Employee share plans
Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees
or other disputes against the Group where an outflow of under share option and share award schemes.
resources is considered probable and a reliable estimate can
The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at
be made of the likely outcome. In respect of product liability
their grant dates using a Black-Scholes option pricing model
claims related to certain products, provision is made when there
and charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting
is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to enable
periods.
management to make a reliable estimate of the provision
required to cover asserted and unasserted claims. The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase
company shares to meet the obligation to provide shares when
In certain cases, an incurred but not reported (IBNR) actuarial
employees exercise their options or awards. Costs of running the
technique is used to determine this estimate. In addition,
ESOP Trusts are charged to the income statement.
provision is made for legal or other expenses arising from claims
received or other disputes. Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other
reserves. A transfer is made between other reserves and
The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in
retained earnings over the vesting periods of the related share
respect of which it is not possible to meaningfully assess
options or awards to reflect the ultimate proceeds receivable
whether the outcome will result in a probable outflow, or to
from employees on exercise.
quantify or reliably estimate the liability. In these cases,
appropriate disclosure about such cases is included but no Property, plant and equipment
provision is made.
Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) is stated at the cost of
Costs associated with claims made by the Group against third purchase or construction, less provisions for depreciation and
parties are charged to the income statement as they are impairment. Financing costs are capitalised within the cost of
incurred. qualifying assets in construction.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual
value of PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line
The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes
basis over the expected useful life. Residual values and lives are
are calculated using the projected unit credit method and
reviewed, and where appropriate adjusted annually. The
spread over the period during which benefit is expected to be
normal expected useful lives of the major categories of PP&E
derived from the employees’ services, consistent with the advice
are:
of qualified actuaries.
Pension obligations are measured as the present value of Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years
estimated future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the Leasehold land and buildings Lease term or 20 to 50 years
yields of high-quality corporate bonds. Pension scheme assets
Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years
are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date.
Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years
The costs of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in
a similar way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread
On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated
over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived
depreciation and impairments are removed from the financial
from the employees’ services, in accordance with the advice of
statements and the net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to
qualified actuaries.
the income statement.
The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees
Leases
during the year, together with the cost of any curtailment, is
charged to operating profit in the year.
The Group recognises right of use assets under lease
Actuarial gains and losses and the effect of changes in arrangements in which it is the lessee, except for short-term
actuarial assumptions are recognised in the statement of leases (defined as leases with a lease term of 12 months or less)
comprehensive income in the year in which they arise. and leases of low value assets. Rights to use assets owned by
third parties under lease agreements are capitalised at the
The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are
inception of the lease and recognised on the consolidated
charged to the income statement as incurred.
balance sheet.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is recognised as a lease
obligation within short and long-term borrowings. The carrying
amount is subsequently increased to reflect interest on the
lease liability and reduced by lease payments made.
For calculating the discounted lease liability on leases with
annual payments of £2 million or more, the implicit rate in the
lease is used. If this is not available, the incremental borrowing
rate with a lease specific adjustment is used. If neither of these
is available, and for leases with annual payments of less than
£2 million, the incremental borrowing rate is used. The
incremental borrowing rate is the rate of interest at which GSK
would have been able to borrow for a similar term and with a
similar security the funds necessary to obtain a similar asset in a
similar market.
187Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Finance costs are charged to the income statement so as to Contingent milestone payments are recognised at the point
produce a constant periodic rate of charge on the remaining that the contingent event becomes probable. Any development
balance of the obligations for each accounting period. costs incurred by the Group and associated with acquired
licences, patents, know-how or marketing rights are written off
Variable rents are not part of the lease liability and the right of
to the income statement when incurred, unless the criteria for
use asset. These payments are charged to the income
recognition of an internally generated intangible asset are met,
statement as incurred. Lease rental costs for short-term and
usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major
low-value leases which are not capitalised are also charged to
market and approval is considered highly probable.
the income statement as incurred.
Acquired in process R&D and marketed products are valued
Non-lease components are accounted for separately from the
independently as part of the fair value of businesses acquired
lease components in plant and equipment leases but are not
from third parties where they have a value which is substantial
separately accounted for in land and buildings or vehicle
and long term and where the assets either are contractual or
leases.
legal in nature or can be sold separately from the rest of the
If modifications or reassessments of lease obligations occur, the businesses acquired.
lease liability and right of use asset are remeasured.
The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for
Right of use assets where title is expected to pass to GSK at a internal use and internet sites for external use are capitalised as
point in the future are depreciated on a basis consistent with intangible fixed assets where the software or site supports a
similar owned assets. In other cases, right of use assets are significant business system and the expenditure leads to the
depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the creation of a durable asset controlled by the Group. ERP
lease term. systems software is amortised over seven to ten years and other
computer software over three to five years using the straight-
Goodwill line basis.
Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments. Goodwill is deemed
Impairment of non-current assets
to have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment at
least annually. The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for
impairment, either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a larger
Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s
cash generating unit, when there is an indication that the assets
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the
might be impaired. Additionally, goodwill and intangible assets
consideration paid, this excess is recognised immediately as a
which are not yet available for use are tested for impairment
gain in the income statement.
annually. Any provision for impairment is charged to the income
Other intangible assets statement in the year concerned.
Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for Impairments of goodwill are not reversed. Impairment losses on
amortisation and impairments. other non-current assets are only reversed if there has been a
change in estimates used to determine recoverable amounts
Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately and only to the extent that the revised recoverable amounts do
acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are not exceed the carrying values that would have existed, net of
amortised over their estimated useful lives, generally not depreciation or amortisation, had no impairments been
exceeding 30 years, using the straight-line basis, from the time recognised.
they are available for use. The estimated useful lives for
determining the amortisation charge take into account patent Investments in associates, joint ventures and
lives (exclusivity period), where applicable, as well as the value joint operations
obtained from periods of non-exclusivity. For Pharmaceutical
intangible assets, depending on the characteristics, competitive Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the
environment and estimated long-term profits of the asset, consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share of their net
between 80% to 90% of the book value is amortised over the assets at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition
exclusivity period on a straight-line basis and the remaining retained profits or losses and other comprehensive income
book value is amortised over a non-exclusivity period of 5-15 together with any goodwill arising on the acquisition. The Group
years on a straight-line basis. For Vaccines intangible assets, recognises the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of joint
cost is usually amortised over the exclusivity period plus 10 operations in accordance with its rights and obligations.
years, or 30 years if no exclusivity period is granted, on a
Inventories
straight-line basis. Asset lives are reviewed, and where
appropriate adjusted, annually. Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower
of cost (including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs
and related production overheads) and net realisable value.
Cost is generally determined on a first in, first out basis. Pre-
launch inventory is held as an asset when there is a high
probability of regulatory approval for the product. Before that
point a provision is made against the carrying value to reduce it
to its recoverable amount; the provision is then reversed at the
point when a high probability of regulatory approval is
determined.
188Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Financial instruments Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured in accordance with the
Financial assets
business model under which each portfolio of trade receivables
Financial assets are measured at amortised cost, fair value is held. The Group has portfolios in each of the three business
through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI) or fair value models under IFRS 9: to collect the contractual cash flows
through profit or loss (FVTPL). The measurement basis is where there is no factoring agreement in place (measured at
determined by reference to both the business model for amortised cost); to sell the contractual cash flows where the
managing the financial asset and the contractual cash flow trade receivables will be sold under a factoring agreement
characteristics of the financial asset. For financial assets other (measured at FVTPL); and both to collect and to sell the
than trade receivables a 12-month expected credit loss (ECL) contractual cash flows where the trade receivables may be sold
allowance is recorded on initial recognition. If there is under a factoring arrangement (measured at FVTOCI). Trade
subsequent evidence of a significant increase in the credit risk receivables measured at amortised cost are carried at the
of an asset, the allowance is increased to reflect the full lifetime original invoice amount less allowances for expected credit
ECL. If there is no realistic prospect of recovery, the asset is losses.
written off.
Expected credit losses are calculated in accordance with the
Expected credit losses are recognised in the income statement simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, using a provision
on financial assets measured at amortised cost and at fair matrix applying lifetime historical credit loss experience to the
value through other comprehensive income apart from equity trade receivables. The expected credit loss rate varies
investments. depending on whether, and the extent to which, settlement of
the trade receivables is overdue and it is also adjusted as
Current equity investments
appropriate to reflect current economic conditions and
Current equity investments comprise equity investments which estimates of future conditions. For the purpose of determining
the Group holds with the intention to sell and which it may sell in credit loss rates, customers are classified into groupings that
the short term. Where acquired with this intention, they are have similar loss patterns. The key drivers of the loss rate are the
measured at FVTPL. They are initially recorded at fair value and nature of the business unit and the location and type of
then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value. customer.
Unrealised gains and losses are recognised in the income
statement. Dividend income is recognised in the income When a trade receivable is determined to have no reasonable
statement when the Group’s right to receive payment is expectation of recovery it is written off, firstly against any
established. Purchases and sales of current equity investments expected credit loss allowance available and then to the
are accounted for on the trade date. income statement.
Other investments Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for or
written off are credited to the income statement. Long-term
Other investments comprise equity investments and investments
receivables are discounted where the effect is material.
in limited life funds. The Group has elected to designate the
majority of its equity investments as measured at FVTOCI. They Cash and cash equivalents
are initially recorded at fair value plus transaction costs and
Cash held in deposit accounts is measured at amortised cost.
then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value.
Investments in money market funds are held at fair value
Unrealised gains and losses are recognised in other
through profit or loss because the funds fail the solely payments
comprehensive income. On disposal of the equity investment,
of principal and interest (SPPI) test.
gains and losses that have been deferred in other
comprehensive income are transferred directly to retained Borrowings
earnings. All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds
Investments in limited life funds are measured at FVTPL. They received, net of transaction costs. Borrowings are subsequently
are initially recorded at fair value and then remeasured at carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the
subsequent reporting dates to fair value. Unrealised gains and proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the amount due on
losses are recognised in the income statement. redemption being recognised as a charge to the income
statement over the period of the relevant borrowing.
Dividends on equity investments and distributions from funds
are recognised in the income statement when the Group’s right Derivative financial instruments
to receive payment is established. Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure
to market risks. The principal derivative instruments used by GSK
Purchases and sales of Other investments are accounted for on
are foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, foreign
the trade date.
exchange forward contracts and options. The Group does not
hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or
speculative purposes.
Derivative financial assets and liabilities, including derivatives
embedded in host contracts which have been separated from
the host contract, are measured at fair value. Changes in the
fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for
hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income
statement.
189Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Hedge accounting Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the
temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of
Derivatives designated as the hedging instruments are
goodwill or from the initial recognition of other assets and
classified at inception of hedge relationship as cash flow
liabilities in a transaction (other than a business combination)
hedges, net investment hedges or fair value hedges.
that affects neither the accounting nor the taxable profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each
hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has
extent that the hedges are effective and accumulated in the become probable that future taxable profits will allow the
cash flow hedge reserve. Ineffective portions are recognised in deferred tax asset to be recovered.
profit or loss immediately. Amounts deferred in the cash flow
Where an uncertain tax position is identified, management will
hedge reserve are reclassified to the income statement when
make a judgement as to what the probable outcome will be,
the hedged item affects profit or loss, or if the hedged forecast
assuming the relevant tax authority has full knowledge of the
transaction is to purchase a non-financial asset, the amount
situation. Where it is assessed that an economic outflow is
deferred in the cash flow hedge reserve is transferred directly
probable to arise, a provision is made for the best estimate of
from equity and included in the carrying value of the recognised
the liability. In estimating any such liability GSK applies a risk-
non-financial asset.
based approach which takes into account, as appropriate, the
Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way to probability that the Group would be able to obtain
cash flow hedges which are reclassified to the income compensatory adjustments under international tax treaties.
statement when the hedged item affects profit or loss. These estimates take into account the specific circumstances of
each dispute and relevant external advice.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value
hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the Discounting
changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
Where the time value of money is material, balances are
Taxation
discounted to current values using appropriate discount rates.
The unwinding of the discounts is recorded in finance income
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid,
and finance expense.
applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively
enacted by the balance sheet date. The tax charge for the Assets and liabilities held for sale or distribution
period is recognised in the income statement, the statement of
and discontinued operations
comprehensive income or directly in equity, according to the
accounting treatment of the related transaction. Disposal groups are classified as held for sale or distribution if
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences arising their carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying or a distribution to shareholders rather than through continuing
amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets are use, they are available for sale or distribution in their present
recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable condition and the sale or distribution is considered highly
profits will be available against which the temporary differences probable. Assets held in Assets held for sale or distribution are
can be utilised. Deferred tax is provided on temporary measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates less costs to sell or distribute. Non-current assets included in
and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the Assets held for sale or distribution are not depreciated or
temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that amortised. Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale or
the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable distribution are presented in current assets and current liabilities
future. Deferred tax is provided using rates of tax that have separately from the other assets and liabilities in the balance
been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet sheet.
date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is A discontinued operation is a component of the Group that has
a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against been disposed of, distributed or is classified as held for sale or
current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes distribution and that represents a separate major line of
levied by the same tax authority and the Company and its business. The results of discontinued operations are presented
subsidiaries intend to settle their current tax assets and liabilities separately in the consolidated income statement, the
on a net basis. consolidated statement of other comprehensive income and
the consolidated statement of cash flows and comparatives are
restated on a consistent basis.
190Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of
estimation uncertainty
In preparing the financial statements, management is required Revenue is not recognised in full until it is highly probable that a
to make judgements about when or how items should be significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue
recognised in the financial statements and estimates and recognised will not occur. The amount of turnover recognised in
assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, the year from performance obligations satisfied in previous
revenue and expenses reported in the financial statements. periods is set out in Note 6, ‘Turnover and segment information’,
Actual amounts and results could differ from those estimates. and is an indication of the level of sensitivity in the estimate.
The following are considered to be the critical accounting
Future events could cause the assumptions on which the
judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty.
accruals are based to change, which could materially affect the
Turnover future results of the Group.
Reported Group turnover for 2023 was £30,328 million (2022: Taxation
£29,324 million).
The tax charge for the year was £756 million (2022: £707
Estimates million). At 31 December 2023, current tax payable was £500
million (2022: £471 million), non-current corporation tax payable
Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, allowances and
was £75 million (2022: £127 million) and current tax recoverable
product returns given or expected to be given, which vary by
was £373 million (2022: £405 million).
product arrangements and buying groups. These arrangements
with purchasing organisations are dependent upon the Judgement and estimates
submission of claims some time after the initial recognition of
The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue
the sale. Accruals are made at the time of sale for the
authorities. Management makes a judgement of whether there
estimated rebates, discounts or allowances payable or returns
is sufficient information to be able to make a reliable estimate
to be made, based on available market information and
of the outcome of the dispute. If insufficient information is
historical experience.
available, no provision is made.
Sales of pharmaceutical and vaccine products in the US have
If sufficient information is available, in estimating a potential tax
complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and allowances.
liability GSK applies a risk-based approach which takes into
Turnover of Commercial Operations products in the US for 2023
account, as appropriate, the probability that the Group would
of £15,820 million (2022: £14,542 million) was after recording
be able to obtain compensatory adjustments under
deductions of £16,539 million (2022: £15,272 million) for rebates,
international tax treaties. These estimates take into account the
allowances, returns and other discounts. At 31 December 2023,
specific circumstances of each dispute and relevant external
the total accrual amounted to £5,951 million (2022: £5,855
advice, are inherently judgemental and could change
million). Due to the nature of these accruals it is not practicable
substantially over time as each dispute progresses and new
to give meaningful sensitivity estimates due to the large volume
facts emerge.
of variables that contribute to the overall rebates, chargebacks,
returns and other revenue accruals. At 31 December 2023, the Group had recognised provisions of
£584 million in respect of uncertain tax positions (2022: £551
As there can be significant variability in final outcomes, the
million). Due to the number of uncertain tax positions held and
Group applies a constraint when measuring the variable
the number of jurisdictions to which these relate, it is not
element within revenue, so that revenue is recognised at a
practicable to give meaningful sensitivity estimates. No
suitably cautious amount. The objective of the constraint is to
uncertain tax position is individually material to the Group.
ensure that it is highly probable that a significant reversal of
revenue will not occur when the uncertainties are resolved. The Factors affecting the tax charge in future years are set out in
constraint is applied by making suitably cautious estimates of Note 14, ‘Taxation’. GSK continues to believe that it has made
the inputs and assumptions used in estimating the variable adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open
consideration. Because the amounts are estimated they may assessments. Where open issues exist, the ultimate liability for
not fully reflect the final outcome, and the amounts are subject such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is
to change dependent upon, amongst other things, the types of dependent upon the outcome of negotiations with the relevant
buying group and product sales mix. The constraints applied in tax authorities or, if necessary, litigation proceedings.
recognising revenue mean that the risk of a material downward
adjustment to revenue in the next financial year is low.
The level of accrual for rebates and returns is reviewed and
adjusted regularly in the light of contractual and legal
obligations, historical trends, past experience and projected
market conditions. Market conditions are evaluated using
wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market research
data and internally generated information. It is reasonably
possible that there could be a significant adjustment within the
next 12 months to recognise additional revenue, if actual
outcomes are better than the cautious constrained estimates.
191Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued
Legal and other disputes Pensions and other post-employment benefits
Legal costs for the year were £271 million (2022: £144 million). At Judgement
31 December 2023 provisions for legal and other disputes
Where a surplus on a defined benefit scheme arises, or there is
amounted to £267 million (2022: £218 million).
potential for a surplus to arise from committed future
Judgement contributions, the rights of the Trustees to prevent the Group
obtaining a refund of that surplus in the future are considered in
Management makes a judgement of whether there is sufficient
determining whether it is necessary to restrict the amount of the
information to be able to make a reliable estimate of the likely
surplus that is recognised. Three UK schemes are in surplus
outcome of the dispute and the legal and other expenses
(2022: two UK schemes), with a combined surplus of £457
arising from claims against the Group. If insufficient information
million at 31 December 2023 (2022: £109 million). There are
is available, no provision is made and disclosure of the claim is
further recognised pension surpluses totalling £177 million
given.
spread across five countries (2022: £120 million across five
The estimated provisions take into account the specific countries). GSK has made the judgement that these amounts
circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice, are meet the requirements of recoverability.
inherently judgemental and could change substantially over
Estimates
time as each dispute progresses and new facts emerge. Details
of the status and various uncertainties involved in the significant The costs of providing pensions and other post-employment
unresolved disputes are set out in Note 47, ‘Legal proceedings’. benefits are assessed on the basis of assumptions selected by
management. These assumptions include future earnings and
The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have pension increases, discount rates, expected long-term rates of
established provisions after taking into account the relevant return on assets and mortality rates, and are disclosed in Note
facts and circumstances of each matter and in accordance 31, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
with accounting requirements. In respect of product liability
claims related to certain products, there is sufficient history of Discount rates are derived from AA rated corporate bond yields
claims made and settlements to enable management to make except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate
a reliable estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted bonds where government bond yields are used. A sensitivity
claims. analysis is provided in Note 31, ‘Pensions and other post-
employment benefits’, a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate
The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in would lead to an increase in the net pension deficit of
respect of which it is not possible to meaningfully assess approximately £391 million and an increase in the annual
whether the outcome will result in a probable outflow, or to pension cost of approximately £18 million. Similarly, a 0.25%
quantify or reliably estimate the liability. In these cases, increase in the discount rate would lead to a decrease in the
appropriate disclosure about such cases would be provided, net pension deficit of approximately £373 million and a
but no provision would be made and no contingent liability can decrease in the annual pension cost of approximately £18
be quantified. million.
The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts A 0.75% reduction in the discount rate would lead to an
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation increase in the net pension deficit of approximately £1,231
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement million and an increase in the annual pension cost of
negotiations. The position could change over time and, approximately £51 million. Similarly, a 0.75% increase in the
therefore, there can be no assurance that any losses that result discount rate would lead to a decrease in the net pension
from the outcome of any legal proceedings will not exceed the deficit of approximately £1,071 million and a decrease in the
amount of the provisions reported in the Group’s financial annual pension cost of approximately £58 million. The selection
statements by a material amount. of different assumptions could affect the future results of the
Group.
Contingent consideration
The 2023 income statement charge for contingent
consideration was £768 million (2022: £1,645 million).
At 31 December 2023, the liability for contingent consideration
amounted to £6,662 million (2022: £7,068 million). Of this
amount, £5,718 million (2022: £5,890 million) related to the
acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture
in 2012.
Estimates
Any contingent consideration included in the consideration
payable for a business combination is recorded at fair value at
the date of acquisition. These fair values are generally based on
risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted using appropriate
post-tax discount rates. The fair values are reviewed on a
regular basis, and any changes are reflected in the income
statement. See Note 33, ‘Contingent consideration liabilities’.
192Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
4. New accounting requirements
International Tax Reform - Pillar Two Model Rules - Other amendments
Amendments to IAS 12 The adoption of IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts and amendments
The Group has adopted the amendments to IAS 12 which have to certain other IFRS accounting standards in the year ended
been introduced in response to the OECD’s BEPS Pillar Two 31 December 2023, did not have a material impact on the
rules and include: results or financial position of the Group.
–A mandatory temporary exception to the recognition and Certain amendments to IFRS accounting standards and
disclosure of deferred taxes arising from the jurisdictional interpretations have been published that are not mandatory for
implementation of the Pillar Two model rules; and 31 December 2023 reporting periods and have not been
–Disclosure requirements for affected entities to help users of adopted early by the Group. These amendments and
the financial statements better understand an entity’s interpretations are not expected to have a material impact on
exposure to Pillar Two income taxes arising from that the results or financial position of the Group in future reporting
legislation. periods.
GSK has applied the mandatory exception and is not Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows and IFRS 7
recognising any deferred tax impact. Further information about Financial Instruments: Disclosures - Supplier Finance
the impact of the Pillar Two model framework, including the Arrangements, require additional disclosure of information
impact on the effective tax rate for 2024, is set out in Note 14, about Group supplier finance arrangements. The disclosure
'Taxation'. requirements will apply for annual reporting periods beginning
on or after 1 January 2024, but not for any interim periods
ending on or before 31 December 2024.
5. Exchange rates
The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates into sterling and period end rates to translate the net assets of those entities. The
currencies which most influence these translations and the relevant exchange rates were:
2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021
Average rates: Period end rates:
US$/£ 1.24 1.24 1.38 US$/£ 1.27 1.20 1.35
Euro/£ 1.15 1.17 1.16 Euro/£ 1.15 1.13 1.19
Yen/£ 175 161 151 Yen/£ 180 159 155
193Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
6. Turnover and segment information
Operating segments are reported based on the financial information provided to the Chief Executive Officer and the responsibilities
of the GSK Leadership Team (GLT). GSK reports under two segments; Commercial Operations and Total R&D. Members of the GLT
are responsible for each segment.
Originally GSK reported 2021 results under four segments: Pharmaceuticals, Pharmaceuticals R&D, Vaccines and Consumer
Healthcare. However, the reporting of operating segments was changed in 2022 and with the demerger of Consumer Healthcare
only two operating segments are reportable. Comparative information was retrospectively revised on a consistent basis in 2022.
There is no change to the reportable segments in 2023.
R&D investment is essential for the sustainability of the business. However for segment reporting the Commercial Operating profits
exclude allocations of globally funded R&D.
The Total R&D segment is the responsibility of the Chief Scientific Officer and is reported as a separate segment. The operating
costs of this segment includes R&D activities across Specialty Medicines, including HIV and Vaccines. It includes R&D and some
Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) costs relating to regulatory and other functions.
The Group’s management reporting process allocates intra-Group profit on a product sale to the segment in which that sale is
recorded, and the profit analyses below have been presented on that basis.
2023 2022 2021
Turnover by segment £m £m £m
Commercial operations 30,328 29,324 24,696
30,328 29,324 24,696
For 2023, product sales are reported within three product groups: Vaccines, Specialty Medicines and General Medicines.
2023 2022 2021
Commercial Operations: £m £m £m
Shingles 3,446 2,958 1,721
Meningitis 1,260 1,116 961
RSV 1,238 – –
Influenza 504 714 679
Established Vaccines 3,266 3,085 2,970
9,714 7,873 6,331
Pandemic Vaccines 150 64 447
Vaccines 9,864 7,937 6,778
HIV 6,444 5,749 4,777
Respiratory/Immunology and Other 3,025 2,609 2,027
Oncology 731 602 489
10,200 8,960 7,293
Pandemic 44 2,309 958
Specialty Medicines 10,244 11,269 8,251
Respiratory 6,825 6,548 6,048
Other General Medicines 3,395 3,570 3,619
General Medicines 10,220 10,118 9,667
Total Commercial Operations 30,328 29,324 24,696
194Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
6. Turnover and segment information continued
During 2023, sales were made to three US wholesalers of £4,494 million (2022:£4,045 million; 2021: £3,159 million), £4,498 million
(2022: £4,161 million; 2021: £3,081 million) and £3,531 million (2022: £3,227 million; 2021: £2,670 million) respectively, after allocating
final-customer discounts to the wholesalers.
Revenue recognised in the year from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods totalled £1,751 million (2022: £1,601
million) including £728 million (2022: £898 million) impacting turnover arising from changes to prior year estimates of RAR (returns
and rebates) accruals, £37 million (2022: £115 million) of milestone income and £986 million (2022: £588 million) of royalty income
recognised in the current year.
2023 2022 2021
Segment profit £m £m £m
Commercial Operations 14,656 13,590 11,467
Research and development (5,607) (5,060) (4,567)
Segment profit 9,049 8,530 6,900
Corporate and other unallocated costs (263) (379) (407)
Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit (2,041) (1,718) (2,136)
Total Operating profit 6,745 6,433 4,357
Finance income 115 76 14
Finance costs (792) (879) (769)
Gain/(loss) on disposal of interest in associates 1 – (36)
Share of after-tax profits/(losses) of associates and joint ventures (5) (2) 33
Profit before taxation from continuing operations 6,064 5,628 3,599
Taxation (756) (707) (83)
Profit after taxation for the year from continuing operations 5,308 4,921 3,516
Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit comprise items not specifically allocated to segment profit.
These include impairment and amortisation of intangible assets; major restructuring costs, which include impairments of tangible
assets and computer software; transaction-related adjustments related to significant acquisitions; proceeds and costs of disposals
of products and businesses, significant legal charges and expenses on the settlement of litigation and government investigations,
other operating income other than royalty income and other items. Please refer to the detail of Other reconciling items between
segment profit and operating profit in the analysis of adjusting items (Group financial review).
2023 2022 2021
Depreciation and amortisation by segment £m £m £m
Commercial Operations 893 829 915
Research and development 572 467 378
Segment depreciation and amortisation 1,465 1,296 1,293
Corporate and other unallocated depreciation and amortisation 110 112 68
Other reconciling items between segment depreciation and amortisation and total depreciation and
amortisation 719 739 761
Total depreciation and amortisation 2,294 2,147 2,122
195Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
6. Turnover and segment information continued
2023 2022 2021
PP&E, intangible asset and goodwill impairment by segment £m £m £m
Commercial Operations 27 29 30
Research and development 13 32 55
Segment impairment 40 61 85
Corporate and other unallocated impairment 35 20 63
Other reconciling items between segment impairment and total impairment 432 420 392
Total impairment 507 501 540
PP&E and intangible asset impairment reversals by segment
Commercial Operations (16) (6) (8)
Research and development (9) (19) (2)
Segment impairment reversals (25) (25) (10)
Corporate and other unallocated impairment reversals (14) – –
Other reconciling items between segment impairment reversals and total impairment reversals – (1) (2)
Total impairment reversals (39) (26) (12)
2023 2022
Net operating assets by segment £m £m
Commercial Operations 12,302 10,288
Research and development 7,021 7,299
Segment net operating assets 19,323 17,587
Corporate and other unallocated net operating assets 625 264
Net operating assets 19,948 17,851
Net debt (15,040) (17,197)
Investments in associates and joint ventures 55 74
Current equity investment 2,204 4,087
Derivative financial instruments 16 7
Current and deferred taxation 5,536 5,176
Assets held for sale (excluding cash and cash equivalents) 76 98
Net assets 12,795 10,096
The Commercial Operations segment includes the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability of £5,718 million
(2022: £5,890 million) and the Pfizer put option of £848 million (2022: £1,093 million).
Geographical information
The UK is regarded as being the Group’s country of domicile.
2023 2022 2021
Turnover by location of customer £m £m £m
UK 693 695 656
US 15,820 14,542 11,914
Rest of World 13,815 14,087 12,126
External turnover 30,328 29,324 24,696
2023 2022
Non-current assets by location of subsidiary £m £m
UK 6,464 5,134
US 13,280 14,024
Belgium 5,337 5,415
Rest of World 6,606 6,593
Non-current assets 31,687 31,166
Non-current assets by location excludes amounts relating to other investments, deferred tax assets, derivative financial instruments,
pension assets, amounts receivable under insurance contracts and certain other non-current receivables. There are no other
countries with individually material external revenue or non-current assets.
196Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
7. Other operating income/(expense)
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Upfront settlement income(1) – 922 –
Fair value remeasurements of equity investments (122) 256 37
Disposal of businesses and assets 61 215 552
Fair value remeasurements on contingent consideration recognised in business combinations (791) (1,607) (1,058)
Remeasurement of ViiV Healthcare put option liabilities and preferential dividends 245 (85) (48)
Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments 7 3 (4)
Other income 237 61 17
(363) (235) (504)
(1) On 1 February 2022, ViiV Healthcare reached agreement with Gilead Sciences, Inc (Gilead) to settle the global patent infringement litigation relating to the
commercialisation of Gilead’s Biktarvy concerning ViiV Healthcare’s patents relating to dolutegravir, an anti-retroviral medication used, together with other
medicines, to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Under the terms of the global settlement and licensing agreement, Gilead made an upfront
payment of $1.25 billion (£922 million) to ViiV Healthcare on 15 February 2022. In addition, Gilead will also pay a 3% royalty on all future US sales of Biktarvy
and in respect of the bictegravir component of any other future bictegravir-containing products sold in the US. These royalties will be payable by Gilead to
ViiV Healthcare from 1 February 2022 until the expiry of ViiV Healthcare’s US Patent No. 8,129,385 on 5 October 2027 and will be recorded as royalty income
in the income statement.
Fair value remeasurement on equity investments in 2023 included a loss of £17 million from the remeasurement of the Group’s
retained investment in Haleon plc. See details in Note 22 'Current equity investments'.
Disposal of businesses and assets in 2023 primarily includes milestone income.
Disposal of businesses and assets in 2022 includes milestone income and the reversal of provisions no longer required.
Disposal of businesses and assets in 2021 included a net gain on disposal of the rights to the royalty stream for cabozantinib and a
net gain on disposal of the cephalosporin antibiotic brands to Sandoz.
Fair value re-measurements on contingent consideration recognised as business combinations included a net charge of £934
million related to the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture, £187 million net credit payable to Novartis
related to the Vaccines acquisition, together with fair value movements on related hedging contracts and a charge of £44 million
relating to the contingent consideration on the acquisition of Affinivax primarily relating to the unwind of the discount.
Other income in 2023 primarily includes net income from dividends related to investments, including £49 million dividends received
from the retained investment in Haleon plc.
197Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
8. Operating profit
2023 2022 2021
The following items have been included in operating profit: £m £m £m
Employee costs (Note 9) 8,473 7,693 7,680
Advertising 835 735 433
Distribution costs 199 192 169
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 892 885 855
Impairment of property, plant and equipment, net of reversals 17 70 87
Depreciation of right of use assets 190 176 179
Impairment of right of use assets 10 40 5
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,212 1,086 1,088
Impairment of intangible assets, net of reversals 418 365 435
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets held for sale, net of reversals 23 – 1
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses 11 11 (4)
Inventories:
Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 6,576 6,137 5,885
Write-down of inventories 979 687 800
Reversal of prior year write-down of inventories (598) (483) (325)
Short-term lease charge 8 6 7
Low-value lease charge 2 2 3
Variable lease payments 17 9 10
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates in relation to the Group (see below) 22.0 26.9 31.7
The reversals of prior year write-downs of inventories principally arise from the reassessment of usage or demand expectations prior
to inventory expiration.
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses include a net gain of £34 million (2022: £2 million loss; 2021: £35 million gain) arising from the
recycling of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries. The recycling of exchange on disposal of overseas
associates is £nil (2022: £nil). The recycling of exchange on disposal of overseas subsidiaries does not include recycling of exchange
on disposal of Consumer Healthcare subsidiaries as this is reported as Profit after taxation on demerger of discontinued operations.
Included within operating profit are Major restructuring charges of £382 million (2022: £321 million; 2021: £424 million), see Note 10,
‘Major restructuring costs’.
2023 2022 2021
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates: £m £m £m
Audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements including attestation under
s.404 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 10.2 10.9 13.2
Audit of the company’s subsidiaries 10.2 9.7 14.5
Total audit services 20.4 20.6 27.7
Audit-related and other assurance services 1.6 6.3 4.0
Total audit services, audit-related and other assurance services 22.0 26.9 31.7
The other assurance services provided by the auditor related to agreed upon procedures and other assurance services outside of
statutory audit requirements. Audit related and other assurance services include £nil (2022: £4.4 million; 2021: £2.4 million) due to
reporting accountant work performed in preparation for the Consumer Healthcare demerger.
In addition to the above, fees paid to the auditor in respect of the GSK pension schemes were:
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Audit 0.2 0.2 0.2
198Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
9. Employee costs
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 6,706 6,110 5,858
Social security costs 818 763 793
Pension and other post-employment costs, including augmentations (Note 31) 356 369 415
Cost of share-based incentive plans 321 314 345
Severance and other costs from integration and restructuring activities 272 137 269
8,473 7,693 7,680
The Group provides benefits to employees, commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including in some markets,
healthcare insurance, subsidised car schemes and personal life assurance.
The cost of share-based incentive plans is analysed as follows:
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Share value plan 244 243 258
Performance share plan 58 55 51
Share option plans 5 4 5
Cash settled and other plans 14 12 31
321 314 345
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year:
2023 2022 2021
Number Number Number
Manufacturing 23,209 22,946 23,562
Selling, general and administration 34,446 34,642 36,909
Research and development 12,589 11,542 10,874
Total Continuing Operations 70,244 69,130 71,345
Discontinued Operations – 21,292 20,616
Total 70,244 90,422 91,961
Note: Consumer Healthcare was divested on 18 July 2022 and is shown as Discontinued Operations in the above table.
The average monthly number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. The numbers of Group employees at the
end of each financial year are given in the financial record on page 276.
The compensation of the Directors and senior management (members of the GLT) in aggregate, was as follows:
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 37 31 27
Social security costs 4 5 3
Pension and other post-employment costs 1 2 3
Cost of share-based incentive plans 32 28 27
74 66 60
Further information on the remuneration of the Directors is given in the sections of the Annual Report on remuneration labelled as
audited within pages 143 to 149.
199Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
10. Major restructuring costs
Within the Pharmaceuticals sector, the highly regulated manufacturing operations and supply chains and long lifecycle of the
business mean that restructuring programmes, particularly those that involve the rationalisation or closure of manufacturing or R&D
sites, are likely to take several years to complete.
Major restructuring costs are those related to specific Board-approved Major restructuring programmes, including integration costs
following material acquisitions, which are structural and are of a significant scale where the costs of individual or related projects
exceed £25 million.
In January 2020, the Board approved a Separation Preparation programme to prepare for the separation of GSK into two
companies. This programme is largely complete. After the acquisition of Sierra Oncology (July 2022) and Affinivax (August 2022),
the Board approved a Major restructuring programme for the integration of significant acquisitions designed to integrate and
achieve synergies. In June 2023 GSK acquired Bellus Health Inc.
The total restructuring costs of £382 million in 2023 (2022: £321 million; 2021: £424 million) were incurred in the following areas:
–Restructuring costs for separation of GSK into two companies
–Continued transformation of central functions, including GSK technology platforms and interfaces, to deliver greater digital
synergies, simplification of applications and staff reductions
–The integration of acquisitions.
The analysis of the costs charged to operating profit under these programmes was as follows:
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Increase in provision for Major restructuring programmes (see Note 32) 172 138 321
Amount of provision reversed unused (see Note 32) (55) (111) (140)
Impairment losses recognised 33 122 14
Other non-cash charges/(credit) 86 (7) 25
Other cash costs 146 179 204
382 321 424
Provision reversals of £55 million reflected provision releases mainly related to the Separation Preparation programme. Asset
impairments of £33 million and other non-cash charges of £86 million principally comprised fixed asset write-downs of
manufacturing and administrative facilities and accelerated depreciation where asset lives have been shortened in the supply chain
manufacturing network as a result of the Major restructuring programmes. All other charges have been or will be settled in cash and
include site closure costs, consultancy and project management costs.
The analysis of Major restructuring charges by programme was as follows:
2023
Cash Non-cash Total
£m £m £m
Separation Preparation programme 199 117 316
Significant acquisitions 65 1 66
Legacy programmes (1) 1 –
263 119 382
2022
Cash Non-cash Total
£m £m £m
Separation Preparation programme 177 110 287
Significant acquisitions 20 – 20
Legacy programmes 9 5 14
206 115 321
The analysis of Major restructuring charges by income statement line was as follows:
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Cost of sales 164 102 102
Selling, general and administration 216 180 277
Research and development 2 39 45
382 321 424
200Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
11. Finance income
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Finance income arising from:
Financial assets measured at amortised cost 48 31 11
Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss 60 31 2
Net gains arising from the forward element of forward contracts in net investment hedge relationships – 12 –
Other finance income 7 2 1
115 76 14
12. Finance expense
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Finance expense arising on:
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (672) (789) (735)
Net losses arising from:
Financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (23) 743 (565)
Retranslation of loans 25 (761) 565
Reclassification of hedges from other comprehensive income (4) (2) (2)
Unwinding of discounts on provisions (15) (7) (2)
Finance expense arising on lease liabilities (38) (30) (27)
Other finance expense (65) (33) (3)
(792) (879) (769)
201Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
13. Associates and joint ventures
The Group’s share of after-tax profits and losses of associates and joint ventures is set out below:
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Share of after-tax (losses)/profits of associates (2) 1 36
Share of after-tax losses of joint ventures (3) (3) (3)
(5) (2) 33
During the year, the Group disposed of an investment in a joint venture for £nil consideration, with the release of related
commitments for future capital contributions resulting in a net £1 million profit on disposal.
In May 2021, the Group agreed with Innoviva Inc. to sell all of its shares in Innoviva back to Innoviva for £277 million. Following the
disposal, at 31 December 2023, 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021, the Group held no significant individual associates.
Summarised income statement information in respect of Innoviva until May 2021 is set out below.
The results of Innoviva included in the summarised income statement information below represent the estimated earnings of
Innoviva in the relevant periods, based on publicly available information. Figures for 2021 include share of Innoviva’s turnover, profit
and total comprehensive income until the date of the disposal.
2021
£m
Turnover 108
Profit after taxation 106
Total comprehensive income 106
Aggregated financial information in respect of GSK’s share of other associated undertakings and joint ventures is set out below:
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Share of after-tax losses (5) (2) –
Share of other comprehensive income/(expense) 7 (9) 28
Share of total comprehensive income/(expense) 2 (11) 28
The Group’s sales to associates and joint ventures were £nil in 2023 (2022: £nil; 2021: £nil).
Please refer to the balance sheet information on Note 21, 'Investments in associates and joint ventures'.
202Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Taxation
The Group’s tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax expense.
2023 2022 2021
Taxation charge based on profits for the year £m £m £m
UK current year charge 207 200 119
Rest of World current year charge 1,371 1,351 593
Charge/(credit) in respect of prior periods 43 (60) 219
Current taxation 1,621 1,491 931
Deferred taxation (865) (784) (848)
756 707 83
In 2023, GSK made corporate income tax payments globally of £1.3 billion (2022: £1.5 billion), of which £205 million (2022: £48
million) was UK corporation tax paid to HMRC. These amounts are for corporate income tax only, and do not include the various
other business taxes borne by GSK each year.
The deferred tax credits in each period reflect current year losses where offset against taxable profits in future periods is probable
and the release of deferred tax liabilities. The latter relates primarily to the unwind of deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets.
The following table reconciles the tax charge calculated at the UK statutory rate on the Group profit before tax with the actual tax
charge for the year.
2023 2023 2022 2022 2021 2021
Reconciliation of taxation on Group profits £m % £m % £m %
Profit before tax 6,064 5,628 3,599
UK statutory rate of taxation 1,425 23.5 1,069 19.0 685 19.0
Differences in overseas taxation rates 159 2.6 318 5.6 302 8.4
Benefit of intellectual property incentives (696) (11.5) (600) (10.7) (382) (10.6)
R&D credits (121) (2.0) (119) (2.1) (100) (2.8)
Permanent differences on disposals, acquisitions and transfers 10 0.2 275 4.9 (3) (0.1)
Other permanent differences 102 1.7 82 1.5 (4) (0.1)
Re-assessments of prior year current tax estimates 43 0.7 (60) (1.1) 219 6.1
Re-assessments of prior year deferred tax estimates (147) (2.4) (233) (4.1) (281) (7.8)
Changes in tax rates (19) (0.3) (25) (0.4) (353) (9.8)
Tax charge/tax rate 756 12.5 707 12.6 83 2.3
As a global biopharmaceutical company, we have a substantial business and employment presence in many countries around the
world. The impact of differences in overseas taxation rates arose from profits being earned in countries with tax rates higher than
the UK statutory rate, the most significant of which in 2023 were Belgium and Japan. This adverse impact was offset by the benefit
of intellectual property incentives such as the UK Patent Box and Belgian Innovation Income Deduction regimes, which provide a
reduced rate of corporation tax on profits earned from qualifying patents. We claim these incentives in the manner intended by the
relevant statutory or regulatory framework.
Permanent differences on disposals, acquisitions and transfers in 2022 includes tax on internal restructuring to simplify the group
structure.
The Group’s tax rate is also influenced by updates to estimates of prior period tax liabilities following closure of open issues with tax
authorities in various jurisdictions and changes in tax rates. The cumulative impact of these items in 2023 is a 2% reduction in the
tax rate.
In 2021, ‘Changes in tax rates’ included credits in relation to the enactment of the increase in the headline rate of UK corporate
income tax from 19% to 25% (effective 2023).
Future tax charges, and therefore our effective tax rate, may be affected by factors such as acquisitions, disposals, restructurings,
the location of research and development activity, tax regime reforms and resolution of open matters as we continue to bring our
tax affairs up to date around the world.
During 2023 the UK Government substantively enacted legislation introducing a global minimum corporate income tax rate, to have
effect from 2024 in line with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s (OECD) Pillar Two model framework.
We anticipate that the rules will restrict our ability to benefit from innovation incentives, such as the UK and Belgium Patent Box
regimes, and consequently our underlying effective tax rate is forecast to increase by around 2% from 2024.
203Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Taxation continued
2023 2022 2021
Tax on items charged to equity and statement of comprehensive income £m £m £m
Current taxation
Share-based payments (1) (3) –
Defined benefit plans (143) – –
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – – 5
Fair value movements on equity investments (6) 12 36
(150) 9 41
Deferred taxation
Share-based payments (6) 11 (11)
Defined benefit plans 184 (211) 223
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges (1) (9) 3
Fair value movements on equity investments (8) (68) (167)
169 (277) 48
Total charge/(credit) to equity and statement of comprehensive income 19 (268) 89
All of the above items have been charged to the statement of comprehensive income except for tax on share based payments.
Issues relating to taxation
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations involves significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at
a limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets. In line with current OECD
guidelines, we base our transfer pricing policy on the arm’s length principle and support our transfer prices with economic analysis
and reports. However, different tax authorities may seek to attribute further profit to activities being undertaken in their jurisdiction
potentially resulting in double taxation. The Group also has open items in several jurisdictions concerning such matters as the
deductibility of particular expenses and the tax treatment of certain business transactions. GSK applies a risk based approach to
determine the transactions most likely to be subject to challenge and the probability that the Group would be able to obtain
compensatory adjustments under international tax treaties.
The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge therefore necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of
certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or,
as appropriate, through a formal legal process. At 31 December 2023 the Group had recognised provisions of £584 million in
respect of such uncertain tax positions (2022: £551 million). The net increase in recognised provisions during 2023 was driven by the
reassessment of estimates, the agreement of a number of open issues with tax authorities in various jurisdictions and amounts
related to discontinued operations. Whilst the ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is
dependent upon the outcome of agreements with the relevant tax authorities, or litigation where appropriate, the Group continues
to consider that it has made appropriate provision for periods which are open and not yet agreed by the tax authorities.
A provision for deferred tax liabilities of £165 million as at 31 December 2023 (2022: £157 million) has been made in respect of
taxation that would be payable on the remittance of profits by certain overseas subsidiaries. Whilst the aggregate amount of
unremitted profits at the balance sheet date was approximately £18 billion (2022: £16 billion), the majority of these unremitted
profits would not be subject to tax (including withholding tax) on repatriation, as UK legislation relating to company distributions
provides for exemption from tax for most overseas profits, subject to certain exceptions. Deferred tax is not provided on temporary
differences of £869 million (2022: £660 million) arising on unremitted profits as management has the ability to control any future
reversal and does not consider such a reversal to be probable.
204Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Taxation continued
Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities
Pensions & Share Other
Accelerated Intra- other post option net
capital Intangible Contingent Group employment Tax and award temporary
allowances assets consideration profit benefits losses schemes differences
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Total
At 1 January 2022 (211) (3,711) 850 999 640 1,450 91 1,554 1,662
Exchange adjustments (29) (264) – (40) 64 6 1 160 (102)
Credit/(charge) to income statement 122 126 142 258 (32) 104 (22) 190 888
Credit/(charge) to statement of comprehensive
income – – – – 182 42 (11) (12) 201
Acquisitions/Disposals (1) (637) – – – 67 – 76 (495)
R&D credits utilisation – – – – – – – (76) (76)
Transfer of assets for sale/distribution 62 3,667 – (118) (60) (8) (2) (250) 3,291
At 31 December 2022 (57) (819) 992 1,099 794 1,661 57 1,642 5,369
Exchange adjustments 11 58 – (70) (24) (2) – (100) (127)
Credit/(charge) to income statement 72 229 (71) 223 (15) 335 12 80 865
Credit/(charge) to statement of comprehensive
income – – – – (184) – 5 10 (169)
Acquisitions/Disposals – (144) – – – – – – (144)
R&D credits utilisation – – – – – – – (56) (56)
At 31 December 2023 26 (676) 921 1,252 571 1,994 74 1,576 5,738
Deferred tax liabilities in relation to intangible assets predominately relate to temporary differences arising as a result of historic
business combinations. Acquisitions within the year predominantly relate to Bellus Health (see Note 41, 'Acquisitions and disposals').
The Group continues to recognise deferred tax assets on future obligations in respect of contingent consideration amounts payable
to minority shareholders. These payments are tax deductible at the point in time at which payment is made.
A deferred tax asset is recognised on intra-Group profits arising on inter-company inventory which are eliminated within the
consolidated accounts. As intra-Group profits are not eliminated from the individual entities’ tax returns a temporary difference
arises that will reverse at the point in time inventory is sold externally.
The deferred tax asset of £1,994 million (2022: £1,661 million) recognised on tax losses relates to trading losses. Such deferred tax
assets are only recognised to the extent Group long-range forecasts indicate sufficient future taxable profits will be available to
utilise such assets by around 2030. Other net temporary differences included accrued expenses for which a tax deduction is only
available on a paid basis.
Deferred tax asset and liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet as follows:
2023 2022
£m £m
Deferred tax assets 6,049 5,658
Deferred tax liabilities (311) (289)
5,738 5,369
2023 2022
Unrecognised Unrecognised
deferred tax deferred tax
Tax losses asset Tax losses asset
Unrecognised tax losses £m £m £m £m
Trading losses expiring:
Within 10 years 939 149 967 175
More than 10 years 1,238 66 44 13
Available indefinitely 228 47 192 41
At 31 December 2,405 262 1,203 229
Capital losses expiring:
Available indefinitely 2,261 567 2,326 548
At 31 December 2,261 567 2,326 548
Deferred tax assets are only recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available to utilise losses.
205Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
15. Earnings per share
2023 2022 2021
pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 121.6 110.8 82.9
Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations – 260.6 26.7
Total basic earnings per share 121.6 371.4 109.6
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 119.9 109.2 81.8
Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations – 257.0 26.4
Total diluted earnings per share 119.9 366.2 108.2
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of
shares in issue during the period after deducting shares held by the ESOP Trusts for the future exercise of share options and share
awards and Treasury shares. The trustees have waived their rights to cash dividends on the GSK shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
Diluted earnings per share has been calculated after adjusting the weighted average number of shares used in the basic
calculation to assume the conversion of all potentially dilutive shares. A potentially dilutive share forms part of the employee share
schemes where its exercise price is below the average market price of GSK shares during the period and any performance
conditions attaching to the scheme have been met at the balance sheet date.
The numbers of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciled below.
2023 2022 2021
Weighted average number of shares in issue millions millions millions
Basic 4,052 4,026 4,003
Dilution for share options and awards 59 58 49
Diluted 4,111 4,084 4,052
16. Dividends
2023 2022 2021
Dividend Total Dividend Total Dividend Total
per share dividend per share dividend per share dividend
Paid/payable (pence) £m Paid (pence) £m Paid (pence) £m
First interim 13 July 2023 14.00 567 1 July 2022 17.50 704 8 July 2021 23.75 951
Second interim 12 October 2023 14.00 568 6 October 2022 16.25 654 7 October 2021 23.75 951
Third interim 11 January 2024 14.00 568 12 January 2023 13.75 555 13 January 2022 23.75 952
Fourth interim 11 April 2024 16.00 649 13 April 2023 13.75 557* 7 April 2022 28.75 1,157
Total 58.00 2,352 61.25 2,470 100 4,011
* The estimate for the fourth interim dividend for 2022 disclosed in the 2022 annual report was £555 million, £2 million less than the dividend that was ultimately paid.
Under IFRS, interim dividends are only recognised in the financial statements when paid and not when declared. GSK normally pays
a dividend two quarters after the quarter to which it relates and one quarter after it is declared. The 2023 financial statements
recognise those dividends paid in 2023, namely the third and fourth interim dividends for 2022, and the first and second interim
dividends for 2023.
The demerger of Consumer Healthcare in 2022 was effected by GSK declaring an interim dividend in specie of Haleon plc shares.
The fair value of the distribution was £15,526 million.
The amounts recognised in each year were as follows:
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Cash dividends to shareholders 2,247 3,467 3,999
Dividends in specie to shareholders in Haleon plc shares (Note 41) – 15,526 –
2,247 18,993 3,999
206Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
17. Property, plant and equipment
Plant,
Land and equipment Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2022 7,212 11,816 1,750 20,778
Exchange adjustments 403 542 105 1,050
Additions through business combinations 5 8 17 30
Other additions 13 79 1,153 1,245
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 21 21
Disposals and write-offs (64) (222) (5) (291)
Reclassifications 146 689 (874) (39)
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution (1,067) (1,959) (317) (3,343)
Cost at 31 December 2022 6,648 10,953 1,850 19,451
Exchange adjustments (189) (265) (44) (498)
Additions through business combinations – – – –
Other additions 11 99 1,185 1,295
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 36 36
Disposals and write-offs (136) (732) (16) (884)
Reclassifications 134 701 (869) (34)
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution (13) (52) (22) (87)
Cost at 31 December 2023 6,455 10,704 2,120 19,279
Depreciation at 1 January 2022 (3,281) (6,744) – (10,025)
Exchange adjustments (191) (310) – (501)
Charge for the year (226) (726) – (952)
Disposals and write-offs 47 181 – 228
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution 376 1,130 – 1,506
Depreciation at 31 December 2022 (3,275) (6,469) – (9,744)
Exchange adjustments 90 153 – 243
Charge for the year (210) (682) – (892)
Disposals and write-offs 66 662 – 728
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution 6 29 – 35
Reclassifications – (4) – (4)
Depreciation at 31 December 2023 (3,323) (6,311) – (9,634)
Impairment at 1 January 2022 (264) (514) (43) (821)
Exchange adjustments (9) (14) (1) (24)
Disposals and write-offs 9 47 5 61
Impairment losses (33) (45) (5) (83)
Reversal of impairments – 9 – 9
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution 37 45 2 84
Impairment at 31 December 2022 (260) (472) (42) (774)
Exchange adjustments 4 7 1 12
Disposals and write-offs 27 114 13 154
Impairment losses (11) (32) – (43)
Reversal of impairments 3 23 – 26
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution – – – –
Reclassifications – – – –
Impairment at 31 December 2023 (237) (360) (28) (625)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2022 (3,535) (6,941) (42) (10,518)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2023 (3,560) (6,671) (28) (10,259)
Net book value at 1 January 2022 3,667 4,558 1,707 9,932
Net book value at 31 December 2022 3,113 4,012 1,808 8,933
Net book value at 31 December 2023 2,895 4,033 2,092 9,020
207Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
17. Property, plant and equipment continued
The weighted average interest rate for capitalised borrowing costs in the year was 4% (2022: 4%). Disposals and write-offs in the
year included a number of assets with nil net book value that are no longer in use in the business.
The impairment losses principally arose from decisions to rationalise facilities and were calculated based on fair value less costs of
disposal. The fair value less costs of disposal valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable
market data, and therefore this valuation technique is classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. These calculations determine
the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, post-tax cash flows of the relevant asset or cash generating unit, applying a
discount rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of 7%, adjusted where appropriate for specific
segment, country and currency risk.
Assets that continue to be used by the Group are generally assessed as part of their associated cash generating unit on a value in
use basis. For value in use calculations, the post-tax cash flows do not include the impact of future uncommitted restructuring plans
or improvements. Where an impairment is indicated and a pre-tax cash flow calculation is expected to give a materially different
result, the test would be reperformed using pre-tax cash flows and a pre-tax discount rate. The Group WACC is equivalent to a pre-
tax discount rate of approximately 9%.
Net impairment reversals have been credited to cost of sales: £1 million (2022: net impairment losses £11 million) and R&D: £5 million
(2022: net impairment losses £7 million). Net impairment losses have been charged to SG&A: £23 million (2022: £55 million), after
charging impairment losses of £27 million (2022: £34 million) arising from the Major restructuring programmes.
Reversals of impairment arose from subsequent reviews of the impaired assets where the conditions which gave rise to the original
impairments were deemed no longer to apply. £17 million of the impairment reversal has been credited to cost of sales, £5 million of
the impairment reversal has been credited to R&D expenses and £4 million of the impairment reversal has been credited to SG&A.
During 2022, the full impairment reversal of £9 million was credited to cost of sales.
During 2023, £34 million (2022: £39 million) of computer software was reclassified from assets in construction to intangible assets
on becoming ready for use.
The Group has assessed the qualitative and quantitative impact of climate related risks on asset recoverable amounts and
concluded that there are no material impairments. As of 31 December 2023, £53 million has been capitalised in property, plant and
equipment regarding the transition to a lower-carbon propellant.
18. Right of use assets
Land and Plant and
buildings equipment Vehicles Total
£m £m £m £m
Net book value at 1 January 2022 633 9 98 740
Exchange adjustments 47 – 8 55
Additions through business combinations 53 – – 53
Other additions 140 2 91 233
Depreciation (131) (3) (58) (192)
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution (115) (1) (11) (127)
Disposals (27) (1) (8) (36)
Impairments (39) – – (39)
Net book value at 31 December 2022 561 6 120 687
Exchange adjustments (30) – (6) (36)
Additions through business combinations 1 – – 1
Other additions 355 – 144 499
Depreciation (121) (2) (67) (190)
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution – – – –
Disposals (11) – (9) (20)
Impairments (10) – – (10)
Reclassifications 6 – – 6
Net book value at 31 December 2023 751 4 182 937
The Group has entered into some commitments for lease contracts that have not yet commenced. See Note 36, 'Commitments'.
An analysis of lease liabilities is set out in Note 30, ‘Net debt’.
208Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
19. Goodwill
2023 2022
£m £m
Cost at 1 January 7,046 10,552
Exchange adjustments (313) 550
Additions through business combinations (Note 41) 109 1,127
Other movements (Note 41) (31) –
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution – (5,183)
Cost at 31 December 6,811 7,046
Net book value at 1 January 7,046 10,552
Net book value at 31 December 6,811 7,046
All goodwill is allocated to the Group’s segments as follows:
2023 2022
£m £m
Commercial operations 5,951 6,148
Total R&D 860 898
Net book value at 31 December 6,811 7,046
The recoverable amounts of the cash generating units are assessed using a fair value less costs of disposal model. Fair value less
costs of disposal is calculated using a discounted cash flow approach, with a post-tax discount rate applied to the projected risk-
adjusted post-tax cash flows and terminal value.
The discount rate used is based on the Group WACC of 7% (2022: 7%), as most cash generating units have integrated operations
across large parts of the Group. The discount rate is adjusted where appropriate for specific segment, country and currency risks.
The valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable market data, therefore this valuation
technique is classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
The R&D segment is evaluated on an arm's length pricing model, see assumptions below.
Details relating to the discounted cash flow models used in the impairment tests are as follows:
Valuation basis Fair value less costs of disposal
Key assumptions Sales growth rates
Profit margins
Terminal growth rate
Discount rate
Taxation rate
Determination of assumptions Growth rates are internal forecasts based on both internal and external market information.
Margins reflect past experience, adjusted for expected changes.
Terminal growth rates based on management’s estimate of future long-term average growth rates.
Discount rates based on Group WACC, adjusted where appropriate.
Taxation rates based on appropriate rates for each jurisdiction.
Period of specific projected cash flows Five years
Terminal growth rate and discount rate Terminal growth rate Discount rate
2023
Commercial operations 0% p.a 7% p.a
R&D 0% p.a 7% p.a
2022
Commercial operations 0% p.a 7% p.a
R&D 0% p.a 7% p.a
The terminal growth rate does not exceed the long-term projected growth rates for relevant markets, reflects the impact of future
generic competition and take account of new product launches. Goodwill is monitored for impairment at the segmental level and
the valuations indicated sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in an
impairment of the related goodwill.
The Group has assessed the qualitative and quantitative impact of climate related risks on asset recoverable amounts and
concluded that there are no material impairments.
209Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
20. Other intangible assets
Computer Licences, patents, Indefinite life
software amortised brands brands Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2022 2,424 21,439 18,626 42,489
Exchange adjustments 63 934 1,112 2,109
Capitalised development costs – 317 – 317
Additions through business combinations – 2,964 – 2,964
Other additions 149 626 – 775
Disposals and asset write-offs (203) (33) – (236)
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution (513) (496) (19,772) (20,781)
Reclassifications 39 (34) 34 39
Cost at 31 December 2022 1,959 25,717 – 27,676
Exchange adjustments (30) (664) – (694)
Capitalised development costs – 363 – 363
Additions through business combinations – 1,438 – 1,438
Other additions 144 525 – 669
Disposals and asset write-offs (125) (13) – (138)
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution 2 – – 2
Reclassifications 34 (3) – 31
Cost at 31 December 2023 1,984 27,363 – 29,347
Amortisation at 1 January 2022 (1,369) (8,262) – (9,631)
Exchange adjustments (33) (307) – (340)
Charge for the year (204) (931) – (1,135)
Disposals and asset write-offs 129 19 – 148
Transfer to assets held for sale 254 300 – 554
Amortisation at 31 December 2022 (1,223) (9,181) – (10,404)
Exchange adjustments 18 174 – 192
Charge for the year (203) (1,009) – (1,212)
Disposals and asset write-offs 100 8 – 108
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution (3) – – (3)
Reclassifications 4 1 – 5
Amortisation at 31 December 2023 (1,307) (10,007) – (11,314)
Impairment at 1 January 2022 (91) (2,480) (208) (2,779)
Exchange adjustments (2) (138) (1) (141)
Impairment losses (72) (313) (17) (402)
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution 10 34 226 270
Reversal of impairments 1 17 – 18
Disposals and asset write-offs 73 7 – 80
Impairment at 31 December 2022 (81) (2,873) – (2,954)
Exchange adjustments 1 70 – 71
Impairment losses (23) (398) – (421)
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution – – – –
Reversal of impairments 3 – – 3
Disposals and asset write-offs 25 11 – 36
Impairment at 31 December 2023 (75) (3,190) – (3,265)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2022 (1,304) (12,054) – (13,358)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2023 (1,382) (13,197) – (14,579)
Net book value at 1 January 2022 964 10,697 18,418 30,079
Net book value at 31 December 2022 655 13,663 – 14,318
Net book value at 31 December 2023 602 14,166 – 14,768
The weighted average interest rate for capitalised borrowing costs in the year was 4% (2022: 4%).
The net book value of computer software included £270 million (2022: £479 million) of internally generated costs.
The carrying value at 31 December 2023 of intangible assets, for which impairments have been charged in the year following those
impairments, was £533 million (2022: £83 million), resulting from the appraisal of GSK’s assumptions related to in-licences and
collaboration agreements. The carrying value at 31 December 2023 of intangible assets, for which impairment reversals have been
charged in the year following those impairment reversals, was £nil million (2022: £776 million). No individual intangible asset
accounted for a material impairment.
210Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
20. Other intangible assets continued
The patent expiry dates of the Group’s most significant assets, where relevant, are set out on pages 281 to 283. Please refer to Note
2, 'Accounting principles and policies' to the Group’s accounting policy and estimate of the useful life for intangible assets over the
exclusivity and non-exclusivity periods.
Amortisation and impairment losses, net of reversals, have been charged in the income statement as follows:
Amortisation Net impairment losses
2023 2022 2023 2022
£m £m £m £m
Cost of sales 668 663 1 2
Selling, general and administration 103 116 18 66
Research and development 441 307 399 299
1,212 1,086 418 367
Licences, patents, amortised brands etc. includes a large number of acquired licences, patents, know-how agreements and
marketing rights, which are either marketed or in use, or still in development. Note 41, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’ gives details of
additions through business combinations in the year. The book values of the largest individual items are as follows:
2023 2022
£m £m
Tesaro Assets 2,656 2,858
Meningitis Portfolio 1,717 1,855
Momelotinib 1,470 1,499
Camlipixant 1,438 –
Affinivax Assets 1,429 1,473
Dolutegravir (including Cabotegravir) 1,059 1,150
Iteos Assets 443 443
Alector Assets 425 509
Benlysta 424 541
Shingrix 289 288
Okairos 198 202
BMS Assets 191 196
CureVac Assets 191 178
Spero 163 163
RSV 139 40
Relvar/Breo/Anoro 125 181
Stiefel Trade Name 116 142
Wave Life Sciences 116 –
UCB 115 137
Arrowhead 114 90
DT 104 115
Fluarix/FluLaval 100 147
Vir Assets 1 159
Others 1,143 1,297
14,166 13,663
After announcement on 13 December 2022, GSK and Wave Life Sciences Ltd. entered into a strategic collaboration in January
2023, to advance oligonucleotide therapeutics focusing on novel genetic targets.
On 28 June 2023, GSK has completed the acquisition of Bellus Health Inc, a late-stage biopharmaceutical company. The
acquisition provides GSK access to camlipixant. (Refer to Note 41, 'Acquisitions and disposals').
The Group does not consider that any reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions would cause the recoverable amount of
the intangible assets disclosed above to fall below their carrying values.
The Group has assessed the qualitative and quantitative impact of climate related risks on asset recoverable amounts and
concluded that there are no material impairments.
211Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
21. Investments in associates and joint ventures
Joint 2023 Joint 2022
ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 10 64 74 12 76 88
Exchange adjustments – (3) (3) 1 1 2
Additions – – – – 1 1
Disposals (7) – (7) – – –
Distributions received – (11) (11) – (6) (6)
Net fair value movements through other comprehensive income – 7 7 – (9) (9)
Impairment of interest in associates – – – – – –
Profit/(loss) after tax recognised in the consolidated income
statement (3) (2) (5) (3) 1 (2)
At 31 December – 55 55 10 64 74
During the year, the Group disposed of an investment in a joint venture for £nil consideration.
Please refer to the income statement information in Note 13, 'Associates and joint ventures'.
22. Current equity investments
Investments Investments
measured at measured at
FVTPL FVTPL
2023 2022
Current £m £m
At 1 January 4,087 –
Additions – 3,852
Net fair value movements through profit or loss (17) 233
Disposals and Settlements (1,863) –
Exchange adjustments (3) 2
At 31 December 2,204 4,087
Current equity investments represent Haleon plc shares held after the demerger of Consumer Healthcare. Shares are held for
trading and measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) based on the Haleon plc share price. Changes in fair value are
presented as Other operating income/(expense) in continuing operations. The Group’s investment in Haleon plc at the end of
December 2023 is held by Glaxo Group Limited, 2.8% (2022: 5.4%), GSK Scottish Limited Partnership (No.1), 4.6% (2022: 4.7%), GSK
Scottish Limited Partnership (No.2), nil (2022: 1.8%), GSK Scottish Limited Partnership (No.3), nil (2022: 1.0%) and the ESOP Trusts, nil
(2022: 0.6%).
212Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
23. Other investments
Investments Investments
designated as Investments designated as Investments
measured at measured at measured at measured at
FVTOCI FVTPL 2023 FVTOCI FVTPL 2022
Non-current £m £m £m £m £m £m
1 January 1,153 314 1,467 1,927 199 2,126
Exchange adjustments (26) (15) (41) 75 25 100
Additions 93 29 122 87 63 150
Net fair value movements through other comprehensive income (253) – (253) (716) – (716)
Net fair value movements through profit or loss – (122) (122) – 27 27
Held for sale (16) – (16) – – –
Disposals (20) – (20) (220) – (220)
31 December 931 206 1,137 1,153 314 1,467
Non-current other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are recorded at fair value at each balance sheet
date. For investments traded in an active market, the fair value is determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange quoted
bid price. For other investments, the fair value is estimated by management with reference to relevant available information,
including the current market value of similar instruments, recent financing rounds and discounted cash flows of the underlying net
assets. Net fair value movements include the impact of exchange losses of £37 million through Other comprehensive income and
£nil through profit or loss (2022: gains of £134 million through Other comprehensive income and £nil through profit or loss). Other
investments include listed investments of £741 million (2022: £823 million).
GSK has elected to designate the majority of its equity investments as measured at fair value through Other comprehensive income
(FVTOCI). The most significant of these investments held at 31 December 2023 were in Crispr Therapeutics AG, which had a fair
value at 31 December 2023 of £158 million (2022: £109 million) and Vir Biotechnology.Inc. which had a fair value at 31 December
2023 of £67 million (2022: £180 million). The fair value of the investment in Nimbus Therapeutics, LLC, disclosed as a significant
investment at 31 December 2022, was £5 million at 31 December 2023 (2022: £139 million). The other investments include equity
stakes in companies with which GSK has research collaborations and in companies which provide access to biotechnology
developments of potential interest.
On disposal of equity investments measured at FVTOCI, the accumulated fair value movements are reclassified from the fair value
reserve to retained earnings. Investments measured at FVTOCI with a fair value of £20 million (2022: £220 million) were disposed of
during the year. The cumulative loss on these investments after tax was £26 million (2022: gain of £14 million).
Certain other investments, such as investments in funds with limited lives and investments acquired with an intention to sell, are
measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL). The most significant of these investments held at 31 December 2023 was SR
One Capital Fund I-B, LP which had a fair value at 31 December 2023 of £102 million (2022: £211 million).
24. Other non-current assets
2023 2022
£m £m
Amounts receivable under insurance contracts 854 857
Pension schemes in surplus 634 229
Other receivables 96 108
1,584 1,194
Amounts receivable under insurance contracts are held at cash surrender value with movements through profit or loss.
Within the other receivables of £96 million (2022: £108 million), £27 million (2022: £34 million) is classified as financial assets of
which £18 million (2022: £13 million) is classified as fair value through profit or loss. On the remaining balance of £9 million
(2022: £21 million), the expected credit loss allowance was immaterial at 31 December 2023 and 2022.
Other receivables include £7 million relating to carbon-based nature removal projects (2022: £2 million).
213Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
25. Inventories
2023 2022
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 1,594 1,576
Work in progress 2,449 2,286
Finished goods 1,455 1,284
5,498 5,146
As part of the TCFD one of the climate-related risks identified affects the metered dose inhalers (MDI). There is no impact on the
recoverable value of the associated inventories held at year end.
26. Trade and other receivables
2023 2022
£m £m
Trade receivables, net of loss allowance 5,905 5,452
Accrued income 69 19
Prepayments 355 343
Interest receivable 2 2
Employee loans and advances 9 11
Other receivables 1,045 1,226
7,385 7,053
There were no trade or other receivable balances (2022: £nil) due from associates and joint ventures. The most significant
component of other receivables comprises receivables for indirect and other taxes of £565 million (2022: £492 million). Other
significant balances within other receivables are royalties receivable of £226 million (2022: £188 million) and an amount receivable
from collaboration partners of £nil (2022: £263 million).
2023 2022
Loss allowance - trade receivables £m £m
At 1 January 91 150
Exchange adjustments (6) 9
Charge for the year 11 35
Transfer to assets held for sale – (60)
Subsequent recoveries of amounts provided for (9) (19)
Utilised (2) (24)
At 31 December 85 91
Of the total trade receivables balance, £10 million (2022: £58 million) is considered credit impaired, against which a £8 million
(2022: £26 million) expected credit loss allowance has been applied. No amount was purchased or originated credit impaired.
Within the other receivables of £1,045 million (2022: £1,226 million), £408 million (2022: £683 million) is classified as financial assets
of which £nil (2022: £nil) is classified as held at fair value through profit or loss. At 31 December 2023, an expected credit loss
allowance of £3 million (2022: £6 million) was recognised in respect of financial assets, with a release in expected credit loss
allowance of £3 million (2022: £nil) reported in profit or loss during the year.
For more discussion on credit risk practices, please refer to Note 44, 'Financial instruments and related disclosures'.
214Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
27. Cash and cash equivalents
2023 2022
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 748 879
Cash equivalents 2,188 2,844
2,936 3,723
Cash and cash equivalents included £190 million (2022: £200 million) not available for general use due to restrictions applying in the
subsidiaries where it is held. Restrictions include exchange controls and taxes on repatriation. During 2022, £1,421 million was
transferred to assets held for sale relating to Consumer Healthcare which was demerged during that year (see Note 41, 'Acquisitions
and disposals').
28. Assets held for sale
2023 2022
£m £m
Property, plant and equipment 60 83
Other 16 15
76 98
Non-current assets and disposal groups are transferred to assets held for sale when it is expected that their carrying amounts will be
recovered principally through disposal and a sale is considered highly probable. They are held at the lower of carrying amount and
fair value less costs to sell.
215Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
29. Trade and other payables
2023 2022
£m £m
Trade payables 3,717 3,866
Wages and salaries 1,683 1,488
Social security 126 126
ViiV Healthcare put option 848 1,093
Other payables 346 418
Deferred income 222 299
Customer return and rebate accruals 6,799 6,627
Other accruals 2,103 2,346
15,844 16,263
Trade and other payables included £nil (2022: £nil) due to associates and joint ventures. The Group provides limited supplier
financing arrangements to certain suppliers. The amounts involved at 31 December 2023 were not material.
Revenue recognised in the year that was included in deferred income at 1 January 2023 was £192 million (2022: £85 million).
Customer return and rebate accruals are provided for by the Group at the point of sale in respect of estimated rebates, discounts or
allowances payable to customers as more fully described in the Group financial review on page 105. At 31 December 2023,
customer return and rebate accruals included £5,781 million (2022: £5,717 million) in respect of US Commercial Operations. Accruals
are made at the time of sale but the actual amounts paid are based on claims made some time after the initial recognition of the
sale. As the amounts are estimated, they may not fully reflect the final outcome and are subject to change dependent upon,
amongst other things, the types of buying group and product sales mix. The level of accrual is reviewed and adjusted quarterly in
light of historical experience of actual amounts paid and any changes in arrangements. Future events could cause the assumptions
on which the accruals are based to change, which could affect the future results of the Group.
Pfizer’s put option over its shareholding in ViiV Healthcare is currently exercisable. Pfizer may request an IPO of ViiV Healthcare at
any time and if either GSK does not consent to such IPO or an offering is not completed within nine months, Pfizer could require GSK
to acquire its shareholding. The amount of the liability for this put option, which is held on the gross redemption basis, is derived
from an internal valuation of the ViiV Healthcare business, utilising both discounted forecast future cash flow and multiples-based
methodologies.
The table below shows on an indicative basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity of the Pfizer put option to
reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
2023 2022
Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Income statement £m £m
10% increase in sales forecasts* 84 100
15% increase in sales forecasts* 126 149
10% decrease in sales forecasts* (84) (99)
15% decrease in sales forecast* (126) (149)
1% (100 basis points) increase in discount rate (18) (32)
1.50% (150 basis points) increase in discount rate (26) (48)
1% (100 basis points) decrease in discount rate 19 35
1.50% (150 basis points) decrease in discount rate 28 53
10 cent appreciation of US Dollar 54 66
15 cent appreciation of US Dollar 85 103
10 cent depreciation of US Dollar (46) (56)
15 cent depreciation of US Dollar (67) (80)
10 cent appreciation of Euro 22 29
15 cent appreciation of Euro 34 46
10 cent depreciation of Euro (18) (24)
15 cent depreciation of Euro (26) (35)
* The sales forecast is for ViiV Healthcare sales only in respect of the ViiV Healthcare put option.
Other accruals includes interest accrued on financial liabilities at amortised cost of £162 million (2022: £207 million).
An explanation of the accounting for ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 84.
216Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Net debt
2023 2022
Listing exchange £m £m
Current assets:
Liquid investments 42 67
Cash and cash equivalents 2,936 3,723
2,978 3,790
Short-term borrowings:
Commercial paper (815) (1,191)
Bank loans, overdrafts and other (191) (448)
0.125% € Euro Medium Term Note 2023 London Stock Exchange – (665)
0.000% € Euro Medium Term Note 2023 London Stock Exchange – (443)
0.534% US$ Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange – (1,038)
3.000% US$ US Medium Term Note 2024 New York Stock Exchange (784) –
1.375% € Euro Medium Term Note 2024 London Stock Exchange (867) –
Lease liabilities (156) (167)
(2,813) (3,952)
Long-term borrowings:
3.000% US$ US Medium Term Note 2024 New York Stock Exchange – (829)
1.375% € Euro Medium Term Note 2024 London Stock Exchange – (884)
4.000% € Euro Medium Term Note 2025 London Stock Exchange (650) (663)
3.625% US$ US Medium Term Note 2025 New York Stock Exchange (783) (827)
1.000% € Euro Medium Term Note 2026 London Stock Exchange (608) (620)
1.250% € Euro Medium Term Note 2026 London Stock Exchange (867) (885)
3.000% € Euro Medium Term Note 2027 London Stock Exchange (434) (442)
3.375% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2027 London Stock Exchange (306) (306)
3.875% US$ US Medium Term Note 2028 New York Stock Exchange (1,370) (1,450)
0.883% ¥ Euro Medium Term Note 2028 London Stock Exchange (235) –
1.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2028 London Stock Exchange (745) (744)
3.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2029 New York Stock Exchange (778) (822)
1.375% € Euro Medium Term Note 2029 London Stock Exchange (433) (441)
1.750% € Euro Medium Term Note 2030 London Stock Exchange (650) (663)
3.125% € Euro Medium Term Note 2032 London Stock Exchange (604) (616)
5.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2033 London Stock Exchange (566) (640)
5.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2034 London Stock Exchange (390) (412)
1.625% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2035 London Stock Exchange (745) (744)
6.375% US$ US Medium Note 2038 New York Stock Exchange (2,139) (2,264)
6.375% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2039 London Stock Exchange (627) (695)
5.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2042 London Stock Exchange (472) (472)
4.200%US$ US Medium Term Note 2043 New York Stock Exchange (385) (408)
4.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2045 London Stock Exchange (366) (366)
Other long-term borrowings (1) (1)
Lease liabilities (1,051) (841)
(15,205) (17,035)
Net debt (15,040) (17,197)
217Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Net debt continued
Current assets
Liquid investments are classified as financial assets at amortised cost. At 31 December 2023, they included US Treasury Notes and
other government bonds. The effective interest rate on liquid investments at 31 December 2023 was approximately 0.9% (2022:
approximately 0.1%). Liquid investment balances at 31 December 2023 earning interest at floating rates amount to £31 million
(2022: £67 million). Liquid investment balances at 31 December 2023 earning interest at fixed rates amount to £11 million (2022:
£nil).
Balances reported within cash and cash equivalents have an original maturity of three months or less. The effective interest rate on
cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2023 was approximately 4.7% (2022: approximately 3.1%). Cash and cash equivalents at
31 December 2023 earning interest at floating and fixed rates amounted to £2,720 million and £38 million respectively (2022: £3,441
and £10 million) and non-interest bearing holdings amounted to £178 million (2022: £272 million).
GSK’s policy regarding the credit quality of cash and cash equivalents is set out in Note 44, ‘Financial instruments and related
disclosures’.
Short-term borrowings
GSK has a $10 billion (£7.8 billion) US commercial paper programme, of which $850 million (£667 million) was in issue at
31 December 2023 (2022: $900 million (£748 million)). GSK has a £5 billion Euro commercial paper programme, of which €170
million (£148 million) was in issue at 31 December 2023 (2022: €500 million (£443 million)). GSK has a £1.6 billion three-year
committed facility and $2.2 billion (£1.7 billion) 364 day committed facility. The three-year committed facility was agreed in February
2022 and extended by one year in August 2023 to September 2026. The 364-day committed facility was agreed in September
2023. These facilities were undrawn at 31 December 2023.
The weighted average interest rate on commercial paper borrowings at 31 December 2023 was 5.1% (2022: 3.5%).
The weighted average interest rate on current bank loans and overdrafts at 31 December 2023 was 4.6% (2022: 7.8%).
The average effective pre-swap interest rate of notes classified as short-term at 31 December 2023 was 2.4% (2022: 0.4%).
Long-term borrowings
At the year-end, GSK had long-term borrowings of £15.2 billion (2022: £17.0 billion), of which £8.7 billion (2022: £11.1 billion) fell due in
more than five years.
During 2023 through a bilateral buyback for outstanding Sterling Notes, GSK repurchased £76m of the 5.250% £ Euro Medium Term
Note 2033 and £69m of the 6.375% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2039.
The average effective pre-swap interest rate of all notes in issue at 31 December 2023 was approximately 3.7% (2022:
approximately 3.5%).
Long-term borrowings repayable after five years carry interest at effective rates between 1.5% and 6.6%, with repayment dates
ranging from 2029 to 2045.
Both effective rates exclude the impact of one-off premiums associated with the early repayment of the Sterling Notes.
Pledged assets
The Group held pledged investments in US Treasury Notes with a par value of $54 million (£42 million), (2022: $56 million
(£47 million)) as security against irrevocable letters of credit issued on the Group’s behalf in respect of the Group’s self-insurance
activity. Provisions in respect of self-insurance are included within the provisions for legal and other disputes discussed in Note 32,
'Other provisions’.
Lease liabilities
The maturity analysis of discounted lease liabilities recognised on the Group balance sheet is as follows:
2023 2022
£m £m
Rental payments due within one year 156 167
Rental payments due between one and two years 214 201
Rental payments due between two and three years 134 127
Rental payments due between three and four years 114 97
Rental payments due between four and five years 88 80
Rental payments due after five years 501 336
Total lease liabilities 1,207 1,008
218Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits
2023 2022 2021
Pension and other post-employment costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 96 114 185
US pension schemes 56 48 40
Other overseas pension schemes 146 154 153
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 58 53 37
356 369 415
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid pension schemes 134 152 231
Unfunded defined benefit pension schemes 35 31 23
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 58 53 37
Defined benefit schemes 227 236 291
Defined contribution pension schemes 129 133 124
356 369 415
The costs of the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes are charged in the income statement as follows:
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Cost of sales 94 104 106
Selling, general and administration 91 90 136
Research and development 42 42 49
227 236 291
GSK entities operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees.
These arrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be
provided by state schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds
arising from contributions paid in respect of each employee; or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based
on employee pensionable remuneration and length of service.
Pension costs of defined benefit schemes for accounting purposes have been calculated using the projected unit credit method. In
certain countries pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some administered by trustee companies. Formal,
independent, actuarial valuations of the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally at least every three years.
Remeasurement movements in the year are recognised through the statement of comprehensive income. Discount rates are
derived from AA rated corporate bond yields except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate bonds where
government bond yields are used. Discount rates are selected to reflect the term of the expected benefit payments. Projected
inflation rates and pension increases are long-term predictions based on the yield gap between long-term index-linked and fixed
interest government bonds. In the UK, mortality rates are determined by adjusting the SAPS S3 standard mortality tables to reflect
recent scheme experience. These rates are then projected to reflect improvements in life expectancy in line with the CMI 2022
projections with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.0% per year for both males and females. In the US, mortality rates are
calculated using the PRI-2012 white collar table adjusted to reflect recent experience. These rates are projected using MP-2020 to
allow for future improvements in life expectancy.
219Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The average life expectancy assumed now for an individual at the age of 60 and projected to apply in 2043 for an individual then
at the age of 60 is as follows:
UK US
Male Female Male Female
Years Years Years Years
Current 27.1 28.0 27.3 28.7
Projected for 2043 28.2 29.2 28.9 30.2
The assets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts, either as specific assets or as a proportion of a
general fund, or are insurance contracts. Assets are invested in different classes in order to maintain a balance between risk and
return. Investments are diversified to limit the financial effect of the failure of any individual investment. The physical asset allocation
strategy for three of the four UK plans is 36% in return-seeking assets and 64% in liability-matching assets. During 2019, a buy-in
insurance contract was purchased to cover substantially all of the obligations of the other UK plan. At 31 December 2023, the value
of the insurance contract was £387 million (2022: £402 million). The asset allocation of the US plans is currently set at 25% return-
seeking assets and 75% liability-matching assets.
The pension plans are exposed to risk that arises because the estimated market value of the plans’ assets might decline, the
investment returns might reduce, or the estimated value of the plans’ liabilities might increase.
In line with the agreed mix of return-seeking assets to generate future returns and liability-matching assets to better match future
pension obligations, the Group has defined an overall long-term investment strategy for the plans, with investments across a broad
range of assets. The main market risks within the asset and hedging portfolio are against credit risk, interest rates, long-term
inflation, equities, property, currency and bank counterparty risk.
The plan liabilities are a series of future cash flows with relatively long duration. On an IAS 19 basis, these cash flows are sensitive to
changes in the expected long-term inflation rate and the discount rate (AA corporate bond yield curve) where an increase in long-
term inflation corresponds with an increase in the liabilities, and an increase in the discount rate corresponds with a decrease in the
liabilities.
The interest rate risk and credit rate risk in the US are partially hedged. The targets are based on an accounting measure of the plan
liabilities.
For the UK plans, there is an interest rate and inflation hedging strategy in place. The targets are based on an economic measure of
the plan liabilities.
Climate-related impacts, along with other environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations, can be financially material
with regard both to expected returns and to risk implications. The incorporation of such considerations into investment policy is
subject to local regulations and fiduciary obligations.
In the UK, the defined benefit pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former
SmithKline Beecham employees remain separate. These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and subsequent UK
employees are entitled to join a defined contribution scheme. In addition, the Group operates a number of post-retirement
healthcare schemes, the principal one of which is in the US.
The UK defined benefit plans closed to future accrual effective from 31 March 2022. As a result, post closure the accrued benefits of
active participants are revalued in line with inflation (RPI for the legacy Glaxo Wellcome plans and CPI for the legacy SmithKline
Beecham plans subject to the relevant caps for each arrangement) rather than capped pay increases. From 1 April 2022, former
defined benefits plans employees were transferred to the defined contribution plans. All defined benefit plan participants who were
still active at 1 April 2022 received a defined pension contribution of £10,000 each in 2022.
The US cash balance pension plan closed to future accrual from 1 January 2021.
The Group has applied the following financial assumptions in assessing the defined benefit liabilities:
UK US Rest of World
2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021
% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings n/a n/a 2.00 n/a n/a n/a 3.20 3.40 2.90
Discount rate 4.60 4.80 2.00 5.00 5.30 2.70 3.10 3.40 1.10
Expected pension increases 2.90 3.10 3.20 n/a n/a n/a 2.50 2.40 2.30
Cash balance credit/conversion rate n/a n/a n/a 4.00 3.90 2.00 0.60 0.80 0.20
Inflation rate 2.90 3.10 3.20 2.50 2.50 2.25 2.00 2.30 1.90
Sensitivity analysis detailing the effect of changes in assumptions is provided on page 227. The analysis provided reflects the
assumption changes which have the most material impact on the results of the Group.
220Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The amounts recorded in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the three years ended 31 December
2023 in relation to the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes were as follows:
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2023 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost – 5 91 96 12
Past service cost 3 – – 3 –
Net interest cost (5) 35 16 46 47
Gains from settlements – – (6) (6) –
Expenses 14 16 – 30 (1)
12 56 101 169 58
Remeasurement gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of 28 45 38 111 (40)
comprehensive income
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2022 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 13 7 126 146 22
Past service cost/(credit) 6 – – 6 –
Net interest (income)/cost (11) 20 9 18 32
Gains from settlements – – (22) (22) –
Expenses 14 21 – 35 (1)
22 48 113 183 53
Remeasurement gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of (1,169) 36 261 (872) 228
comprehensive income
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2021 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 53 9 119 181 17
Past service cost/(credit) 27 2 (10) 19 (3)
Net interest (income)/cost 3 18 7 28 22
Gains from settlements – – (2) (2) –
Expenses 15 12 2 29 –
98 41 116 255 36
Remeasurement gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income1 572 98 186 856 68
The amounts included within past service costs in the UK included £3 million (2022: £6 million; 2021: £26 million) of augmentation
costs which arose from Major restructuring programmes.
221Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
A summarised balance sheet presentation of the Group defined benefit pension schemes and other post-retirement benefits is set
out in the table below:
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Recognised in other non-current assets:
Pension schemes in surplus 634 229 741
Recognised in pensions and other post-employment benefits:
Pension schemes in deficit (1,397) (1,585) (1,870)
Post-retirement benefits (943) (994) (1,243)
(2,340) (2,579) (3,113)
In the event of a plan wind-up, GSK believes the UK pension scheme rules provide the company with the right to a refund of surplus
assets following the full settlement of plan liabilities. As a result, the net surplus in the UK defined benefit pension schemes is
recognised in full.
The fair values of the assets and liabilities of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes, together with aggregated data for
other defined benefit pension schemes in the Group are as follows:
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2023 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 1,647 447 349 2,443
– unlisted – – 2 2
Multi-asset funds 852 – – 852
Property: – listed – – – –
– unlisted 467 119 24 610
Corporate bonds: – listed 2,019 698 205 2,922
– unlisted – – 15 15
Government bonds: – listed 4,897 774 527 6,198
Insurance contracts 990 – 771 1,761
Other (liabilities)/assets (1,374) 104 89 (1,181)
Fair value of assets 9,498 2,142 1,982 13,622
Present value of scheme obligations (9,222) (2,757) (2,406) (14,385)
Net surplus/(obligation) 276 (615) (424) (763)
Included in other non-current assets 457 – 177 634
Included in pensions and other post-employment benefits (181) (615) (601) (1,397)
276 (615) (424) (763)
Actual return on plan assets 647 196 138 981
The multi-asset funds comprise investments in pooled investment vehicles that are invested across a range of asset classes,
increasing diversification within the growth portfolio. The value of funds in this asset class with a quoted market price is £209 million
(2022: £211 million).
The ‘Other (liabilities)/assets’ category comprises cash and mark to market values of derivative positions.
Index-linked gilts held as part of a UK repo programme are included in government bonds. The related loan of £1,853 million at
31 December 2023 (2022: £2,376 million; 2021: £513 million) is deducted within ‘Other assets’.
222Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2022 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 1,351 437 371 2,159
– unlisted – – 2 2
Multi-asset funds 1,101 – – 1,101
Property: – listed – – 19 19
– unlisted 464 140 1 605
Corporate bonds: – listed 1,692 779 124 2,595
– unlisted – – 15 15
Government bonds: – listed 4,048 723 558 5,329
Insurance contracts 1,003 – 691 1,694
Other (liabilities)/assets (645) 181 89 (375)
Fair value of assets 9,014 2,260 1,870 13,144
Present value of scheme obligations (9,117) (3,030) (2,353) (14,500)
Net surplus/(obligation) (103) (770) (483) (1,356)
— — — —
Included in other non-current assets 109 – 120 229
Included in pensions and other post-employment benefits (212) (770) (603) (1,585)
(103) (770) (483) (1,356)
Actual return on plan assets (4,710) (253) (550) (5,513)
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2021 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 3,954 522 731 5,207
– unlisted – – 4 4
Multi-asset funds 1,415 – – 1,415
Property: – listed – – 68 68
– unlisted 502 154 1 657
Corporate bonds: – listed 1,503 975 140 2,618
– unlisted – – 15 15
Government bonds: – listed 5,054 724 984 6,762
Insurance contracts 1,334 – 917 2,251
Other (liabilities)/assets (130) 149 72 91
Fair value of assets 13,632 2,524 2,932 19,088
Asset ceiling restrictions – – (26) (26)
Present value of scheme obligations (13,299) (3,248) (3,644) (20,191)
Net surplus/(obligation) 333 (724) (738) (1,129)
Included in Other non-current assets 606 – 135 741
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (273) (724) (873) (1,870)
333 (724) (738) (1,129)
Actual return on plan assets 541 97 48 686
223Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
Movements in fair values of assets £m £m £m £m £m
Assets at 1 January 2021 13,582 2,635 2,989 19,206 –
Exchange adjustments – 31 (184) (153) –
Interest income 187 57 18 262 –
Expenses (15) (12) – (27) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (7) (7) –
Remeasurement 354 40 30 424 –
Employer contributions 139 40 133 312 105
Scheme participants’ contributions 3 – 24 27 15
Benefits paid (618) (267) (97) (982) (120)
Assets at 31 December 2021 13,632 2,524 2,906 19,062 –
Exchange adjustments – 286 122 408 –
Interest income 271 71 28 370 –
Expenses (14) (21) – (35) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (8) (8) –
Remeasurement (4,981) (324) (578) (5,883) –
Employer contributions 755 50 114 919 117
Scheme participants’ contributions – – 15 15 18
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution – – (624) (624) –
Benefits paid (649) (326) (105) (1,080) (135)
Assets at 31 December 2022 9,014 2,260 1,870 13,144 –
Exchange adjustments — (125) (84) (209) –
Interest income 430 111 60 601 –
Expenses (14) (16) — (30) –
Settlements and curtailments – – 2 2 –
Remeasurement 217 85 78 380 –
Employer contributions 363 125 118 606 98
Scheme participants’ contributions – – 11 11 18
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution – – – – –
Benefits paid (512) (298) (73) (883) (116)
Assets at 31 December 2023 9,498 2,142 1,982 13,622 –
The final instalment of the cash funding or technical provision deficits of £1,080 million identified in the 31 December 2020 pension
scheme valuations in three GSK UK Pension Schemes was paid in 2023.
During March 2022, GSK transferred 7,004 GSK Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited (GSKCHH) C Ordinary Shares (representing
11.03%. (in aggregate) of GSK’s interest in GSKCHH to three Scottish Limited Partnerships (“SLPs”), each providing a funding
mechanism for a separate GSK UK defined benefit pension scheme. As part of the steps relating to the demerger and separation,
the SLPs transferred their applicable portion of GSKCHH C Ordinary Shares to Haleon plc (“Haleon”) in consideration for shares in
Haleon. At the time of demerger the SLPs together held shares representing 7.5% of the total issued share capital of Haleon. The
contributions were collateralised by the creation of three Scottish Limited Partnerships (SLPs). Each of the three principal UK
defined benefit pension schemes (two benefiting current and former Glaxo Welcome employees, with the third benefiting current
and former SmithKline Beecham employees) had an interest in one of the SLPs at the time of demerger.
Scottish Limited Partnership General Partner Limited Partners
GSK (No. 1) Scottish Limited Partnership GSK GP1 Ltd GSK LP Ltd Berkeley Square Pension Trustee Company Ltd acting on
behalf of the GSK Pension Scheme (ceased to be a
Limited Partner effective from 28 June 2023)
GSK (No. 2) Scottish Limited Partnership GSK GP1 Ltd GSK LP Ltd Berkeley Square Pension Trustee Company Ltd acting on
behalf of the GSK Pension Fund (ceased to be a Limited
Partner effective from 28 June 2023)
GSK (No. 3) Scottish Limited Partnership GSK GP2 Ltd GSK LP Ltd SmithKline Beecham Pension Plan Trustee Ltd acting on
behalf of the SmithKline Beecham Pension Plan (ceased
to be a Limited Partner effective from 28 June 2023)
224Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Each pension scheme, through its SLP interest received a distribution from that SLP with regards to the net proceeds of sales of
Haleon shares and dividend income on the Haleon shares up to the amount equal to the agreed threshold (“Proceeds Threshold”).
of £1,080 million increased by £7 million notional interest. Payment of this amount fully funded the cash funding or “technical
provisions” deficits in the three pension schemes shown by the 31 December 2020 valuations. As at 31 December 2023, total cash
contributions totalling £353 million (2022: £691 million; 2021: £44 million) were made towards the Proceeds Threshold leaving no
further outstanding amount due to the UK pension schemes. The cash contributions included £17 million of distributions of dividends
on Haleon shares from the SLPs to the Schemes.
The GSK UK Pension Schemes exited the SLP partnership on 28 June 2023 after receipt of the Proceeds Threshold and notional
interest. The remaining economic interest in the SLPs is held by GSK LP Ltd, a 100% owned subsidiary of GSK plc and the GSK-
controlled General Partner of each SLP.
Employer contributions for 2024, are estimated to be approximately £350 million in respect of defined benefit pension schemes and
£80 million in respect of other post-retirement benefits.
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
Movements in defined benefit obligations £m £m £m £m £m
Obligations at 1 January 2021 (13,858) (3,445) (4,007) (21,310) (1,363)
Exchange adjustments – (40) 258 218 4
Service cost (56) (9) (151) (216) (29)
Past service cost (28) (2) 25 (5) (12)
Interest cost (190) (76) (23) (289) (26)
Settlements and curtailments – – 17 17 –
Remeasurement 218 57 164 439 78
Scheme participants’ contributions (3) – (24) (27) (15)
Benefits paid 618 267 97 982 120
Obligations at31 December 2021 (13,299) (3,248) (3,644) (20,191) (1,243)
Exchange adjustments – (371) (124) (495) (125)
Service cost (13) (7) (126) (146) (22)
Past service cost (6) – – (6) –
Interest cost (260) (91) (37) (388) (32)
Settlements and curtailments – – 29 29 –
Remeasurement 3,812 360 839 5,011 228
Scheme participants’ contributions – – (15) (15) (18)
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution – – 621 621 83
Benefits paid 649 326 105 1,080 135
Obligations at 31 December 2022 (9,117) (3,031) (2,352) (14,500) (994)
Exchange adjustments – 166 87 253 53
Service cost – (5) (91) (96) (13)
Past service cost (3) – – (3) –
Interest cost (425) (145) (76) (646) (47)
Settlements and curtailments – – 4 4 –
Remeasurement (189) (40) (40) (269) (40)
Scheme participants’ contributions – – (11) (11) (18)
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution – – – – –
Benefits paid 512 298 73 883 116
Obligations at 31 December 2023 (9,222) (2,757) (2,406) (14,385) (943)
225Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The defined benefit pension obligation is analysed as follows:
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Funded (13,782) (13,887) (19,419)
Unfunded (603) (613) (772)
(14,385) (14,500) (20,191)
The liability for the US post-retirement healthcare scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension
scheme, together with the assumption for future medical inflation of 6.75% (2022: 7%) in 2023, grading down to 5% in 2031 and
thereafter. At 31 December 2023, the US post-retirement healthcare scheme obligation was £785 million (2022: £870 million; 2021:
£1,059 million). Post-retirement benefits are unfunded.
The movement in the net defined benefit liability is as follows:
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
At 1 January (1,356) (1,129) (2,104)
Exchange adjustments 44 (87) 65
Service cost (96) (146) (216)
Past service cost (3) (6) (5)
Interest cost (45) (18) (27)
Settlements and curtailments 6 21 10
Remeasurements:
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 380 (5,883) 424
(Loss)/gain from change in demographic assumptions 135 92 (62)
Gain/(loss) from change in financial assumptions (137) 5,868 716
Experience (loss)/gain (267) (949) (215)
Employer contributions 606 919 312
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution – (3) –
Expenses (30) (35) (27)
At 31 December (763) (1,356) (1,129)
The remeasurements included within post-retirement benefits are detailed below:
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Gain from change in demographic assumptions 7 21 19
Gain/(loss) from change in financial assumptions (43) 219 35
Experience gains (4) (12) 24
(40) 228 78
The defined benefit pension obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Active 1,508 1,390 4,196
Retired 8,730 8,540 11,115
Deferred 4,147 4,570 4,880
14,385 14,500 20,191
The post-retirement benefit obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Active 277 306 494
Retired 666 688 748
Deferred – – 1
943 994 1,243
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is as follows:
2023 2022 2021
years years years
Pension benefits 11 12 15
Post-retirement benefits 10 10 12
226Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Sensitivity analysis
The effect of changes in assumptions used on the benefit obligations and on the 2024 annual defined benefit pension and post-
retirement costs are detailed below. This information has been determined by taking into account the duration of the liabilities and
the overall profile of the plan memberships.
0.25% 0.25%
increase decrease
£m £m
Discount rate
(Decrease)/increase in annual pension cost (18) 18
Increase/(decrease) in annual post-retirement benefits cost 1 (1)
(Decrease)/increase in pension obligation (373) 391
(Decrease)/increase in post-retirement benefits obligation (20) 22
0.75% 0.75%
increase decrease
£m £m
(Decrease)/increase in annual pension cost (58) 51
Increase/(decrease) in annual post-retirement benefits cost 3 (3)
(Decrease)/increase in pension obligation (1,071) 1,231
(Decrease)/increase in post-retirement benefits obligation (57) 66
0.25% 0.25%
increase decrease
£m £m
Inflation rate
Increase/(decrease) in annual pension cost 16 (14)
Increase/(decrease) in pension obligation 289 (280)
0.75% 0.75%
increase decrease
£m £m
Increase/(decrease) in annual pension cost 46 (40)
Increase/(decrease) in pension obligation 897 (803)
1 year
increase
£m
Life expectancy
Increase in annual pension cost 20
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 2
Increase in pension obligation 432
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 32
1%
increase
£m
Rate of future healthcare inflation
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 2
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 34
227Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
32. Other provisions
Legal Major Employee
and other restructuring related Other
disputes programmes provisions provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2023 218 351 309 306 1,184
Exchange adjustments (21) (13) (9) (5) (48)
Charge for the year 266 172 177 124 739
Reversed unused (4) (55) (33) (143) (235)
Unwinding of discount 10 – – – 10
Utilised (202) (169) (62) (88) (521)
Transfer to assets held for sale/distribution – – – – –
Additions through business combinations – – – – –
Reclassifications and other movements – (1) 1 113 113
Transfer to Pension obligations – (3) – – (3)
At 31 December 2023 267 282 383 307 1,239
To be settled within one year 248 215 172 109 744
To be settled after one year 19 67 211 198 495
At 31 December 2023 267 282 383 307 1,239
Legal and other disputes It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of these
matters may be the subject of negotiation and litigation over
The Group is involved in a substantial number of legal and other
many years. Litigation proceedings, including the various
disputes, including notification of possible claims, as set out in
appeal procedures, often take many years to reach resolution,
Note 47, ‘Legal proceedings’. Provisions for legal and other
and out-of-court settlement discussions can also often be
disputes include amounts relating to product liability, anti-trust,
protracted. Indemnified disputes will result in a provision charge
government investigations, contract terminations and self
and a corresponding receivable.
insurance.
The Group is in potential settlement discussions in a number of
The Group may become involved in significant legal
the disputes for which amounts have been provided and, based
proceedings in respect of which it is not possible to
on its current assessment of the progress of these disputes,
meaningfully assess whether the outcome will result in a
estimates that £248 million of the amount provided at
probable outflow, or to quantify or reliably estimate the liability,
31 December 2023 will be settled within one year. For a
if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of the
discussion of legal issues, see Note 47, ‘Legal proceedings’.
proceedings. In these cases, the Group would provide
appropriate disclosures about such cases, but no provision Major restructuring programmes
would be made.
During 2023, the Group had two major restructuring
The net charge for the year of £262 million (including reversals programmes: the Separation Preparation programme which
and estimated insurance recoveries) primarily related to focused on preparing for the separation of GSK into two
provisions for product liability cases, commercial disputes and companies and is now largely complete, plus the Significant
various other government investigations. Acquisitions programme which is focused on the integration of
recent acquisitions.
The discount on the provision is £10 million in 2023 (2022:
£3 million). The discount was calculated using risk-adjusted Restructuring provisions primarily include severance costs when
projected cash flows and risk-free rates of return. management has made a formal decision to eliminate certain
positions and this has been communicated to the groups of
In respect of product liability claims related to certain products,
employees affected and appropriate consultation procedures
provision is made when there is sufficient history of claims made
completed, where appropriate. No provision is made for staff
and settlements to enable management to make a reliable
severance payments that are paid immediately.
estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims,
and to determine the probability of the outflow of cash. The The discount on the provisions increased by £0.4 million in 2023
ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts (2022: increased by £1 million).
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
Pension augmentation includes £3 million relating to the
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement
defined benefit plan arising from staff redundancies, as shown
negotiations.
in Note 31, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
The Group’s position could change over time, and, therefore,
there can be no assurance that any losses that result from the
outcome of any legal proceedings will not exceed by a material
amount the amount of the provisions reported in the Group’s
financial accounts.
228Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
32. Other provisions continued
Employee related provisions Given the nature of these provisions, the amounts are likely to
be settled over many years.
Employee related provisions include obligations for certain
medical benefits to disabled employees and their spouses in Other provisions
the US.
Included in other provisions are provisions for onerous contracts,
At 31 December 2023, the provision for these benefits insurance provisions and a number of other provisions including
amounted to £48 million (2022: £66 million). Other employee vehicle insurance and regulatory matters.
benefits reflect a variety of provisions for severance costs,
jubilee awards and other long-service benefits.
33. Contingent consideration liabilities
The consideration for certain acquisitions includes amounts contingent on future events such as development milestones or sales
performance. The Group has provided for the fair value of this contingent consideration as follows:
Shionogi-ViiV Novartis
Healthcare Affinivax Vaccines Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2021 5,359 – 477 33 5,869
Remeasurement through income statement 1,026 – 32 5 1,063
Cash payments: operating cash flows (721) – (21) – (742)
Cash payments: investing activities (105) – (9) – (114)
At 31 December 2021 5,559 – 479 38 6,076
Remeasurement through income statement 1,431 17 231 (34) 1,645
Exchange movement through reserves – 2 – – 2
Initial recognition from business combinations – 482 – – 482
Cash payments: operating cash flows (1,031) – (27) – (1,058)
Cash payments: investing activities (69) – (10) – (79)
At 31 December 2022 5,890 501 673 4 7,068
Remeasurement through income statement 934 44 (210) – 768
Exchange movement through reserves – (29) – – (29)
Cash payments: operating cash flows (1,106) – (28) – (1,134)
Cash payments: investing activities – – (11) – (11)
At 31 December 2023 5,718 516 424 4 6,662
Of the contingent consideration payable at 31 December 2023, £1,053 million (2022: £1,289 million) is expected to be paid within
one year.
The consideration payable for the acquisition of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture, Affinivax and the Novartis Vaccines
business are expected to be paid over a number of years. As a result, the total estimated liabilities are discounted to their present
values, shown above. The Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability is discounted at 8% (2022: 8%), the Affinivax
contingent consideration liability is discounted at 8.5% (2022: 9.9%) and the Novartis Vaccines contingent consideration liability is
discounted at 7.5% (2022: 7.5%) for commercialised products and at 8.5% (2022: 8.5%) for pipeline assets.
The Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare and Novartis Vaccines contingent consideration liabilities are calculated principally based on the
forecast sales performance of specified products over the lives of those products.
The Affinivax contingent consideration is based upon two potential milestone payments, each of $0.6 billion (£0.5 billion) which will
be paid if certain paediatric clinical development milestones are achieved.
229Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
33. Contingent consideration liabilities continued
The table below shows on an indicative basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity to reasonably possible changes
in key inputs to the valuations of the contingent consideration liabilities.
2023 2022
Shionogi-ViiV Novartis Shionogi-ViiV Novartis
Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Healthcare Affinivax Vaccines Healthcare Affinivax Vaccines
income statement £m £m £m £m £m £m
10% increase in sales forecasts* 539 N/A 63 556 N/A 103
15% increase in sales forecasts* 807 N/A 94 834 N/A 154
10% decrease in sales forecasts* (539) N/A (62) (555) N/A (103)
15% decrease in sales forecasts* (808) N/A (92) (833) N/A (153)
1% increase in discount rate (174) (12) (26) (199) (7) (55)
1.5% increase in discount rate (256) (18) (38) (292) (10) (80)
1% decrease in discount rate 184 13 30 214 7 65
1.5% decrease in discount rate 281 19 47 328 11 101
10 cent appreciation of US Dollar 386 44 11 411 45 22
15 cent appreciation of US Dollar 604 69 17 645 71 36
10 cent depreciation of US Dollar (330) (38) (8) (347) (38) (19)
15 cent depreciation of US Dollar (478) (54) (12) (501) (56) (27)
10 cent appreciation of Euro 91 N/A 19 109 N/A 23
15 cent appreciation of Euro 144 N/A 30 171 N/A 36
10 cent depreciation of Euro (79) N/A (16) (91) N/A (19)
15 cent depreciation of Euro (113) N/A (22) (130) N/A (28)
10% increase in probability of milestone success n/a 75 21 N/A 82 20
10% decrease in probability of milestone success n/a (75) (10) N/A (82) (10)
* The sales forecast is for ViiV Healthcare sales only in respect of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration. An explanation of the accounting for
ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 84.
34. Other non-current liabilities
2023 2022
£m £m
Accruals 4 11
Deferred income 254 83
Other payables 849 805
1,107 899
Other payables includes a number of employee-related liabilities including employee savings plans.
35. Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2023, contingent liabilities where GSK has a present obligation as a result of a past event, comprising guarantees
and other items arising in the normal course of business, amounted to £32 million (2022: £58 million). At 31 December 2023, £0.2
million (2022: £0.5 million) of financial assets were pledged as collateral for contingent liabilities. Provision is made for the outcome
of tax, legal and other disputes where it is both probable that the Group will suffer an outflow of funds and it is possible to make a
reliable estimate of that outflow. If it is not possible to meaningfully assess whether the outcomes will result in a probable outflow, or
to quantify or reliably estimate the liability, if any, no provision is recorded. Descriptions of the significant legal and other disputes to
which the Group is a party are set out in Note 47, ‘Legal proceedings’.
230Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
36. Commitments
2023 2022
Contractual obligations and commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:
Intangible assets 16,329 10,659
Property, plant and equipment 762 743
Investments 153 138
Purchase commitments 31 161
Pensions and post-retirement benefits – 345
Interest on loans 5,446 6,322
Future finance charges on leases 254 146
Lease contracts that have not yet commenced 5 395
22,980 18,909
The commitments related to intangible assets include milestone payments, which are dependent on successful clinical development
or on meeting specified sales targets, and which represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones, however unlikely, are
achieved. The amounts disclosed are not risk-adjusted or discounted. The increase in intangible asset commitments in 2023 is
mainly attributable to new R&D collaborations including collaborations with Wave Life Sciences USA, Inc. and Shanghai Hansoh
Biomedical Co. Ltd.
In 2022, GSK reached an agreement with the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions of £1,080 million,
to eliminate the pension deficit identified at the 31 December 2020 actuarial funding valuation. Prior to the Consumer Healthcare
demerger, GSK agreed to collateralise this commitment and accelerate funding with additional contributions (Refer to Note 31
'Pensions and other post-employment benefits'). At 31 December 2023, £nil (2022: £345 million) additional contributions were
unpaid.
Included within the total commitments above is £30 million related to nature based carbon removal projects that support GSK’s net-
zero and nature positive goals and £46 million related to the transition to a lower-carbon propellant.
The table excludes any amounts already capitalised in the Financial Statements for the year end 2023.
231Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
37. Share capital and share premium account
Share Consolidation
Following completion of the Consumer Healthcare business demerger on 18 July 2022, GSK plc Ordinary shares were consolidated
to maintain share price comparability before and after demerger. The consolidation was approved by GSK shareholders at a
General Meeting held on 6 July 2022. Shareholders received 4 new Ordinary shares with a nominal value of 31¼ pence each for
every 5 existing Ordinary shares which had a nominal value of 25 pence each. Earnings per share, diluted earnings per share,
adjusted earnings per share and dividends per share were retrospectively adjusted to reflect the Share Consolidation in all the
periods presented in years 2021 and 2022.
Ordinary shares of 25p each pre-share consolidation Share
Ordinary shares of 31¼p each post-share consolidation premium
Number £m £m
Share capital issued and fully paid:
At 1 January 2021 5,385,189,617 1,346 3,281
Issued under employee share schemes 1,825,442 1 20
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – –
At 31 December 2021 5,387,015,059 1,347 3,301
Impact of share consolidation (1,077,403,011) – –
Issued under employee share schemes 1,731,293 – 25
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – 114
At 31 December 2022 4,311,343,341 1,347 3,440
Issued under employee share schemes 802,642 1 9
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – 2
At 31 December 2023 4,312,145,983 1,348 3,451
At 31 December 2023, of the issued share capital, 58,817,197 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, out of which 58,493,518 shares
were held for the future exercise of share options and share awards and 323,679 shares were held for the Executive Supplemental
Savings plan. 197,068,169 shares were held as Treasury shares and 4,056,260,617 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully
paid and there are no shares authorised but not in issue. The nominal, carrying and market values of the shares held in the ESOP
Trusts are disclosed in Note 45, ‘Employee share schemes’.
38. Movements in equity
Retained earnings and other reserves amounted to £8,548 million at 31 December 2023 (2022: £5,811 million; 2021: £10,407 million)
of which £451 million (2022: £463 million; 2021: £476 million) related to associates and joint ventures.
The cumulative translation exchange in equity is as follows:
Net translation exchange included in:
Non- Total
Retained Fair value controlling translation
earnings reserve interests exchange
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2021 (539) (9) (161) (709)
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (239) – (20) (259)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries
and associates (25) – – (25)
At 31 December 2021 (803) (9) (181) (993)
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 109 4 (28) 85
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries
and associates 2 – – 2
Movement attributable to continuing operations (692) (5) (209) (906)
Movement attributable to discontinued operations1 263 – 112 375
At 31 December 2022 (429) (5) (97) (531)
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (41) 19 (25) (47)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries
and associates (34) – – (34)
At 31 December 2023 (504) 14 (122) (612)
(1) Includes £554 million reclassification to the consolidated income statement of net exchange gains related to the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare
business.
232Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
38. Movements in equity continued
The analysis of other comprehensive income by equity category is as follows:
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2023 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (41) 19 – (22)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of subsidiaries
and associates (34) – – (34)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (1) – (1)
Tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 1 – 1
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income – 4 – 4
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (25) (25)
Fair value movements on equity investments – (244) – (244)
Tax on fair value movements on equity investments – 14 – 14
Remeasurement on defined benefit plans 71 – – 71
Tax on remeasurement defined benefit plans (41) – – (41)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (40) – (40)
Total other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (45) (247) (25) (317)
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2022 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 109 4 – 113
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of subsidiaries
and associates 2 – – 2
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (18) – (18)
Tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 9 – 9
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income – 14 – 14
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (28) (28)
Fair value movements on equity investments – (754) – (754)
Tax on fair value movements on equity investments – 56 – 56
Remeasurement on defined benefit plans (786) – – (786)
Tax on remeasurement defined benefit plans 211 – – 211
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (6) – (6)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year from continuing operations (464) (695) (28) (1,187)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year from discontinued operations 375 (19) – 356
Total other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (89) (714) (28) (831)
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2021 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (239) – – (239)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of subsidiaries
and associates (25) – – (25)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 5 – 5
Tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (8) – (8)
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – 12 – 12
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (20) (20)
Fair value movements on equity investments – (911) – (911)
Tax on fair value movements on equity investments – 131 – 131
Remeasurement losses on defined benefit plans 941 – – 941
Tax on remeasurement defined benefit plans (223) – – (223)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year 454 (771) (20) (337)
233Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
38. Movements in equity continued
Information on net investment hedges is provided in part (d) of Note 44 ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures'.
The analysis of other reserves is as follows:
ESOP Trust Fair value Cash flow Other
shares reserve hedge reserve reserves Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2021 (195) 1,302 (31) 2,129 3,205
Exchange adjustments (1) – – – (1)
Transferred to income and expenses in the year on impairments of equity
investments 168 – – – 168
Transferred to retained earnings in the year on disposal of equity investments – (139) – – (139)
Net fair value movement in the year – (780) 10 – (770)
At 31 December 2021 (28) 383 (21) 2,129 2,463
Exchange adjustments (36) 28 12 – 4
Transferred to retained earnings in the year on disposal of equity investments – (21) 17 – (4)
Balances derecognised on demerger – – (169) – (169)
Net fair value movement in the year – (698) 141 – (557)
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (1,200) – – – (1,200)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 911 – – – 911
At 31 December 2022 (353) (308) (20) 2,129 1,448
Exchange adjustments 26 (5) (2) – 19
Transferred to retained earnings in the year on disposal of equity investments – 33 – – 33
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – – 4 – 4
Hedging gain/(loss) transferred to non-financial assets – – 36 – 36
Net fair value movement in the year (including tax) – (230) (40) – (270)
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (285) – – – (285)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 324 – – – 324
At 31 December 2023 (288) (510) (22) 2,129 1,309
Other reserves include various non-distributable merger and pre-merger reserves amounting to £1,849 million at 31 December 2023
(2022: £1,849 million; 2021: £1,849 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created as a result of the share
buy-back programme amounting to £280 million at 31 December 2023 (2022: £280 million; 2021: £280 million).
39. Non-controlling interests
Total non-controlling interests includes the following individually material non-controlling interests. Other non-controlling interests
are individually not material.
ViiV Healthcare
GSK holds 78.3% of the ViiV Healthcare sub-group, giving rise to a material non-controlling interest. Summarised financial
information available at the latest practicable date in respect of the ViiV Healthcare sub-group is as follows:
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Turnover 6,308 5,619 4,637
Profit after taxation 2,034 1,528 1,087
Other comprehensive income/(expense) (19) 94 (17)
Total comprehensive income 2,015 1,622 1,070
2023 2022
£m £m
Non-current assets 2,528 2,716
Current assets 3,330 3,354
Total assets 5,858 6,070
Current liabilities (3,881) (3,762)
Non-current liabilities (8,453) (8,983)
Total liabilities (12,334) (12,745)
Net liabilities (6,476) (6,675)
234Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
39. Non-controlling interests continued
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 2,192 3,442 2,128
Net cash outflow from investing activities (2) (174) (287)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (2,463) (2,718) (1,608)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts in the year (273) 550 233
The above financial information relates to the ViiV Healthcare group on a stand-alone basis, before the impact of Group-related
adjustments, primarily related to the recognition of preferential dividends. The profit after taxation of £2,034 million (2022:
£1,528 million; 2021: £1,087 million) is stated after charging preferential dividends payable to GSK and Pfizer and after a charge of
£858 million (2022: £1,483 million; 2021: £1,218 million) for remeasurement of contingent consideration payable. This consideration is
expected to be paid over a number of years.
The following amounts attributable to the ViiV Healthcare group are included in GSK’s financial statements:
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Share of profit for the year attributable to non-controlling interest 373 415 196
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest 398 480 224
Non-controlling interest in the consolidated balance sheet (648) (611) (570)
40. Related party transactions
At 31 December 2023, a loan of £0.8 million (2022: £nil) to Index Ventures and a loan of £0.6 million (2022: £nil ) to Medicxi Ventures
I LP remained due to GSK. Cash distributions were received from investment in Medicxi Ventures I LP of £10.7 million (2022: Medicxi
Ventures I LP of £6 million).
In December 2023, Qura Therapeutics LLC was liquidated, the investment and the associated commitment for future contributions
were de-recognised from the balance sheet. An immaterial gain (less than £1 million) was recognised.
The Group had no other significant related party transactions which might reasonably be expected to influence decisions made by
the users of these Financial Statements.
The aggregate compensation of the Directors and GLT is given in Note 9, ‘Employee costs’.
235Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
41. Acquisitions and disposals
Details of the acquisition and disposal of significant subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and other businesses are given below:
2023
Business acquisitions
On 28 June 2023, GSK completed the acquisition of BELLUS Health Inc. ("Bellus") which was effected through a Plan of
Arrangement (the “Arrangement”) pursuant to the Canada Business Corporations Act. The Arrangement was approved by Bellus’
shareholders on 16 June 2023. Upon completion, GSK acquired all outstanding common shares of Bellus for US$14.75 per common
share in cash, representing a total equity value of US$2 billion (£1.6 billion). The acquisition provides GSK access to camlipixant, a
potential best-in-class and highly selective P2X3 antagonist currently in phase III development for the first-line treatment of adult
patients with refractory chronic cough (RCC).
Total
£m
Net assets acquired:
Intangible assets 1,438
Non-current equity investments 2
Right of use assets 1
Trade and other receivables 96
Investments held as current assets 51
Cash and cash equivalents 148
Lease liabilities (1)
Trade and other payables (103)
Deferred tax liabilities (136)
1,496
Non-controlling interest –
Goodwill 109
Total consideration 1,605
In 2023, the provisional values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired in the Affinivax, Inc. business combination were
updated for the finalisation of the fair value of intangible assets, resulting in an increase in intellectual property of £39 million, a
decrease to goodwill of £31 million and a decrease to deferred tax of £8 million. The amounts recognised at 31 December 2022
have not been restated on the basis of materiality.
Business disposals
GSK completed no material business disposals in 2023.
Associates and joint ventures
GSK completed no material investments or disposals of associates or joint ventures during the year.
Cash flows
Business Business
Acquisitions Disposals
£m £m
Cash consideration (paid)/ received (1,605) 68
Net deferred consideration paid – (19)
Transaction costs (17) –
Cash and cash equivalents acquired/(divested) 148 –
Cash (outflow)/inflow (1,474) 49
236Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
41. Acquisitions and disposals continued
2022
Business acquisitions
On 1 July 2022, GSK completed the acquisition of 100% of Sierra Oncology, Inc., a California-based, late-stage biopharmaceutical
company focused on targeted therapies for the treatment of rare forms of cancer, for $1.9 billion (£1.6 billion). The main asset is
momelotinib which targets the medical needs of myelofibrosis patients with anaemia. Total transaction costs were £52 million.
On 15 August 2022, GSK completed the acquisition of 100% of Affinivax, Inc. a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company based in
Cambridge, Boston, Massachusetts focused on pneumococcal vaccine candidates. The consideration for the acquisition comprised
an upfront payment of $2.2 billion (£1.8 billion) as adjusted for working capital acquired paid upon closing and two potential
milestone payments each of $0.6 billion (£0.5 billion) to be paid upon the achievement of certain paediatric clinical development
milestones. The estimated fair value of the contingent consideration payable was £482 million. The values were provisional and
were subject to change. The total transaction costs were £71 million.
During 2022, no sales arising from the Sierra Oncology or Affinivax businesses were included in Group turnover and no revenue is
expected until regulatory approval is received on the acquired assets.
GSK continues to support the ongoing development of the acquired assets and consequently these assets will be loss making until
regulatory approval on these assets is received. The development of these assets has been integrated into the Group’s existing R&D
activities, so it was impracticable to quantify these development costs or the impact on Total profit after taxation for the period
ended 31 December 2022.
Goodwill of £1,127 million (£162 million for Sierra Oncology and £965 million for Affinivax), which is not expected to be deductible for
tax purposes, has been recognised. The goodwill represents workforce in place, and specific synergies available to GSK from the
business combinations. The goodwill has been allocated to the Group’s Commercial Operations and R&D segments (refer to Note
19 ‘Goodwill’ for allocation methodology).
Sierra
Oncology Affinivax Total
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 1,497 1,467 2,964
Property, plant and equipment – 30 30
Right of use assets 1 52 53
Inventory 60 – 60
Trade and other receivables 2 17 19
Cash and cash equivalents 175 109 284
Lease liabilities (1) (55) (56)
Trade and other payables (40) (77) (117)
Taxation (259) (236) (495)
1,435 1,307 2,742
Goodwill 162 965 1,127
Total 1,597 2,272 3,869
Total cash 1,597 1,790 3,387
Fair value of contingent consideration – 482 482
On 24 November 2022 GSK signed an agreement to buy out the 25% non-controlling interest in Glaxo Saudi Arabia Ltd for
SAR94 million (£21 million), paid in 2023.
237Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
41. Acquisitions and disposals continued
Demerger of Consumer Healthcare business
On 18 July 2022, GSK plc separated its Consumer Healthcare business from the GSK Group to form Haleon, an independent listed
company. The separation was effected by way of a demerger of 80.1% of GSK’s 68% holding in the Consumer Healthcare business to
GSK shareholders. Following the demerger, 54.5% of Haleon was held in aggregate by GSK shareholders, 6.0% was held by GSK
(including shares received by GSK’s consolidated ESOP trusts) and 7.5% was held by certain Scottish Limited Partnerships (SLPs) set up
to provide collateral for a funding mechanism pursuant to which GSK will provide additional funding for GSK’s UK defined benefit
pension schemes (Note 31, 'Pensions and other post-employment benefits'). The aggregate ownership by GSK (including ownership by
the ESOP trusts and SLPs) after the demerger of 13.5% was measured at fair value with changes through profit or loss. In 2022, Pfizer
held 32% of Haleon after the demerger.
Under IFRIC 17 ‘Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners’ a liability and an equity distribution are measured at the fair value of
the assets to be distributed when the dividend is appropriately authorised and it is no longer at the entity’s discretion. The liability
and equity movement, and associated gain on distribution were recognised in Q3 2022 when the demerger distribution was
authorised and occurred.
The asset distributed was the 54.5% ownership of the Consumer Healthcare business. The net carrying value of the Consumer
Healthcare business in the consolidated financial statements, including the retained 13.5% and net of the amount attributable to
the non-controlling interest, was approximately £11 billion at the end of June. GSK’s £6.3 billion share of the shareholder loans made
in Q1 2022 in advance of the pre-separation dividends was eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. The assets
distributed were reduced by Consumer Healthcare transactions up to 18 July that principally included pre-separation dividends
declared and settled after the end of Q2 2022 and before 18 July 2022. Those dividends included: £10.4 billion (£7.1 billion
attributable to GSK) of dividends funded by Consumer Healthcare debt that was partially on-lent during Q1 2022 and dividends of
£0.6 billion (£0.4 billion attributable to GSK) from available cash balances.
The fair value of the 54.5% ownership of the Consumer Healthcare business distributed was £15.5 billion. This was measured by
reference to the quoted average Haleon share price over the first five days of trading, this being a fair value measured with
observable inputs which was considered to be representative of the fair value at the distribution date. A gain on distribution of this
fair value less book value of the attributable net assets of the Consumer Healthcare business of £7.7 billion was recorded in the
income statement in 2022. There was an additional gain of £2.4 billion to remeasure the retained 13.5% from its book value to fair
value of £3.9 billion using the same fair value methodology as used for the distributed shares. The gain on distribution and on
remeasurement of the retained stake upon demerger was presented as part of discontinued operations. Any future gains or losses
on the retained stake in Haleon will be recognised in continuing operations. In addition, there was a reclassification of the Group’s
share of cumulative exchange differences arising on translation of the foreign currency net assets of the divested subsidiaries and
offsetting net investment hedges from reserves into the income statement of £0.6 billion. The total gain on demerger of Consumer
Healthcare was £10.1 billion. These transactions were presented in profit from discontinued operations in 2022.
2022
£m
Fair value of the Consumer Healthcare business distributed (54.5%) 15,526
Fair value of the retained ownership in Haleon plc (13.5%) 3,853
Total fair value 19,379
Carrying amount of the net assets and liabilities distributed/de-recognised (12,887)
Carrying amount of the non-controlling interest de-recognised 3,038
Gain on demerger before exchange movements and transaction costs 9,530
Reclassification of exchange movements and net investment hedge movements on disposal of overseas subsidiaries 554
Total gain on the demerger of Consumer Healthcare 10,084
Consumer Healthcare was presented as a discontinued operation as at 30 June 2022 and disclosed as such in the interim financial
statements. The Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Cash Flow Statement distinguish discontinued operations from
continuing operations. Comparative figures have been restated on a consistent basis. Financial information relating to the
operations of Consumer Healthcare for the period is set out on the following page and includes financial information until 18 July
2022.
This financial information differs both in purpose and basis of preparation from the Historical Financial Information and the Interim
Financial Information included in the Haleon prospectus and from that which was published by Haleon on 2 March 2023. As a
result, whilst the two sets of financial information are similar, they are not the same because of certain differences in accounting and
disclosure under IFRS.
238Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
41. Acquisitions and disposals continued
Total results 2022 2021
£m £m
Turnover 5,581 9,418
Expense (4,730) (7,575)
Profit before tax 851 1,843
Taxation (235) (263)
Tax rate % 27.6% 14.3%
(Loss)/profit after taxation from discontinued operations: Consumer Healthcare 616 1,580
Other gains/(losses) on demerger 2,433 –
Remeasurement of discontinued operations distributed to shareholders on demerger 7,651 –
Profit after taxation on demerger of discontinued operations 10,700 1,580
Non-controlling interest in discontinued operations 205 511
Earnings attributable to shareholders from discontinued operations 10,495 1,069
Earnings per share from discontinued operations 260.6p 26.7p
Other business disposals
There were no other material business disposals in 2022.
Business Business
Business disposals - disposals -
acquisitions demerger other
Cash flows
£m £m £m
Cash consideration (3,392) – –
Net deferred consideration paid – – (34)
Cash and cash equivalents (divested)/acquired 284 (933) (9)
(3,108) (933) (43)
Transaction costs paid (79) (141) –
Cash (outflow)/inflow (3,187) (1,074) (43)
Cash consideration for business acquisitions included £5 million related to other business acquisition activity.
2021
Business acquisitions
GSK completed no material business acquisitions in 2021.
Business disposals
GSK made a number of business disposals for net cash consideration received in the year of £10 million. The profit on the disposal of
the businesses in the year of £24 million was calculated as follows:
Total
£m
Consideration:
Cash consideration including currency forwards, purchase adjustments and deferred consideration 10
Total 10
Net assets sold:
Property, plant and equipment 3
Cash and cash equivalents 1
Other net assets 1
Total 5
Costs:
Deal costs (16)
Reclassification of exchange from other comprehensive income 35
Gain on disposals in 2021 24
239Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
41. Acquisitions and disposals continued
Associates and joint ventures
On 20 May 2021 GSK agreed with Innoviva, Inc. (“Innoviva”) to sell all of its approximately 32 million shares of common stock of
Innoviva back to Innoviva at a price of $12.25 per share, raising gross proceeds of approximately $392 million. Following settlement
of the transaction, GSK will no longer hold any Innoviva stock. See details in Note 21 ‘Investment in associates and joint ventures’.
Cash flows
Associates
and joint
Business ventures
disposals disposals
£m £m
Cash consideration received 43 277
Net deferred consideration paid (51) –
Transaction costs (8) –
Cash and cash equivalents (divested)/acquired (1) –
Cash (outflow)/inflow (17) 277
.
42. Adjustments reconciling Total profit after tax to
operating cash flows
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Total profit after tax from continuing operations 5,308 4,921 3,516
Tax on profits 756 707 83
Share of after-tax (profits)/losses of associates and joint ventures 5 2 (33)
Finance expense net of finance income 677 803 755
Depreciation 1,082 1,061 1,034
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,212 1,086 1,088
Impairment and assets written off 467 481 529
Profit on sale of businesses – (36) (47)
Profit on sale of intangible assets (12) (185) (539)
(Profit)/loss on sale of investments in associates (1) – 36
Profit on sale of equity investments – (1) (8)
Changes in working capital:
Decrease/(increase) in inventories (424) (269) 51
(Increase) in trade receivables (794) (158) (780)
Increase/(decrease) in trade payables (15) 494 229
(Increase)/decrease in other receivables 145 (458) (382)
Contingent consideration paid (see Note 33) (1,134) (1,058) (742)
Other non-cash increase in contingent consideration liabilities 492 1,628 1,063
Increase/(decrease) in other payables 689 (5) 1,505
Decrease in pension and other provisions (457) (962) (299)
Share-based incentive plans 307 346 343
Fair value adjustments (107) (283) (31)
Other (100) (170) (122)
Operating cash flow from continuing operations 8,096 7,944 7,249
Operating cash flow from discontinued operations – 932 1,994
Total cash generated from operations 8,096 8,876 9,243
240Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Net debt, at beginning of year, as adjusted (17,197) (19,838) (20,780)
Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts (468) (7,597) (2,504)
Decrease in liquid investments (72) (1) (18)
Issue of long-term loans (223) (1,025) –
Repayment of short-term notes 2,116 5,074 2,304
Repayment of/(increase in) other short-term loans 333 (1,021) (301)
Repayment of long-term loans 144 1,594 –
Repayment of lease liabilities 197 202 181
Investments/(debt) of subsidiary undertakings acquired 50 (24) –
Exchange adjustments 554 (1,531) 314
Other non-cash movements (474) (207) (134)
Decrease/(increase) in net debt from continuing operations 2,157 (4,536) (158)
Decrease/(increase) in net debt from discontinued operations – 7,177 1,100
Total net debt at end of year (15,040) (17,197) (19,838)
At
At 1 January Interest Change Reclass- 31 December
2023 Exchange Other expense in fair value ifications Cash flow 2023
Analysis of changes in net debt £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liquid investments 67 (4) 51 – – – (72) 42
Cash and cash equivalents 3,72–3 (10–5 ) –– –– –– –– (68–2 ) 2,93–6
Overdrafts (298) 6 – – – – 214 (78)
3,425 (99) – – – – (468) 2,858
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper (1,191) 56 – – – – 320 (815)
European/US MTN & Bank facilities (2,146) 48 – – – (1,669) 2,116 (1,651)
Lease liabilities (167) 12 (3) – – (195) 197 (156)
Other (150) 21 3 – – – 13 (113)
(3,654) 137 – – – (1,864) 2,646 (2,735)
Debt due after one year:
European/US MTN & Bank facilities (16,194) 469 – (19) – 1,669 (79) (14,154)
Lease liabilities (841) 42 (447) – – 195 – (1,051)
(17,035) 511 (447) (19) – 1,864 (79) (15,205)
Net debt (17,197) 545 (396) (19) – – 2,027 (15,040)
Interest payable (207) 1 (29) (693) – – 766 (162)
Derivative financial instruments 8 – – – 343 – (335) 16
Total liabilities from financing
activities* (20,888) 649 (476) (712) 343 – 2,998 (18,086)
* Excluding cash and cash equivalents, overdrafts and liquid investments.
241Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt continued
At
At 1 January Interest Change Reclass- 31 December
2022 Exchange Other expense in fair value ifications Demerger Cash flow 2022
Analysis of changes in net debt £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liquid investments 61 7 – (1) 67
Cash and cash equivalents 3,861 99 1 – – – 7,496 (7,734) 3,723
Overdrafts (450) 15 – – – – – 137 (298)
Liquid investments attributed to
continuing operations 3,411 114 1 – – – 7,496 (7,597) 3,425
Liquid investments attributed to
discontinued operations 407 37 – – – – (7,496) 7,052 –
3,818 151 1 – – – – (545) 3,425
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper (252) (30) – – – – – (909) (1,191)
European/US MTN & Bank facilities (2,596) (174) – – – (4,426) – 5,050 (2,146)
Lease liabilities (173) (14) 5 – – (186) – 201 (167)
Other (52) (2) (9) – – – – (87) (150)
Debt due within one year attributed
to continuing operations (3,073) (220) (4) – – (4,612) – 4,255 (3,654)
Debt due within one year attributed
to discontinued operations (72) (3) (15) – – (3) 1,559 (1,466) –
(3,145) (223) (19) – – (4,615) 1,559 2,789 (3,654)
Debt due after one year:
European/US MTN & Bank facilities (19,760) (1,386) – (43) – 4,426 – 569 (16,194)
Lease liabilities (725) (59) (243) – – 186 – – (841)
Debt due after one year attributed to
continuing operations (20,485) (1,445) (243) (43) – 4,612 – 569 (17,035)
Debt due after one year attributed to
discontinued operations (87) (777) (6) (4) 48 3 10,059 (9,236) –
(20,572) (2,222) (249) (47) 48 4,615 10,059 (8,667) (17,035)
Net debt (19,838) (2,287) (267) (47) 48 – 11,618 (6,424) (17,197)
Interest payable (244) (5) (33) (865) – – 92 848 (207)
Derivative financial instruments (22) – – – 670 – – (640) 8
Total liabilities from financing
activities* (23,983) (2,450) (301) (912) 718 – 11,710 (5,670) (20,888)
* Excluding cash and cash equivalents, overdrafts and liquid investments.
For further information on significant changes in net debt see Note 30, ‘Net debt’.
242Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures
The objective of GSK’s Treasury activities is to minimise the net GSK has access to short-term finance under a $10 billion
cost of financial operations and reduce its volatility to benefit (£7.8 billion) US commercial paper programme; $850 million
earnings and cash flows. GSK uses a variety of financial (£667 million) was in issue at 31 December 2023 (2022:
instruments to finance its operations and derivative financial $900 million (£748 million)). GSK has access to short-term
instruments to manage market risks from these operations. finance under a £5 billion Euro commercial paper programme;
Derivatives principally comprise foreign exchange forward €170 million (£148 million) was in issue at 31 December 2023
contracts and swaps which are used to swap borrowings and (2022: €500 million (£443 million)). GSK has a £1.6 billion three-
liquid assets into currencies required for Group purposes as well year and a $2.2 billion (£1.7 billion) 364 day committed facility.
as interest rate swaps which are used to manage exposure to These committed facilities were undrawn at 31 December 2023.
financial risks from changes in interest rates. These financial GSK considers this level of committed facilities to be adequate,
instruments reduce the uncertainty of foreign currency given current liquidity requirements.
transactions and interest payments.
GSK has a £20 billion Euro Medium Term Note programme and
Derivatives are used exclusively for hedging purposes in relation at 31 December 2023, £9.2 billion of notes were in issue under
to underlying business activities and not as trading or this programme. The Group also had $8.4 billion (£6.6 billion) of
speculative instruments. notes in issue at 31 December 2023 under a US shelf
registration. GSK’s borrowings mature at dates between 2024
Capital management
and 2045.
GSK’s financial strategy supports the Group’s strategic priorities
The put option owned by Pfizer in ViiV Healthcare is exercisable.
and is regularly reviewed by the Board. GSK manages the
In reviewing liquidity requirements GSK considers that sufficient
capital structure of the Group through an appropriate mix of
financing options are available should the put option be
debt and equity.
exercised.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt of £15
Market risk
billion (see Note 30, ‘Net debt’) and total equity, including items
related to non-controlling interests, of £13 billion (see Interest rate risk management
‘Consolidated statement of changes in equity’ on page 182).
GSK’s objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost and
Total capital, including that provided by non-controlling
to balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating rates over time.
interests, is £28 billion.
The Group’s main interest rate risk arises from borrowings and
The Group continues to manage its financial policies to a credit
investments with floating rates and refinancing of maturing
profile that particularly targets ratings of at least A2/A
fixed rate debt where any changes in interest rates will affect
(Moody's/S&P), through the cycle. The Group’s long-term credit
future cash flows or the fair values of financial instruments. The
rating with Standard & Poor’s is A (stable outlook) and with
policy on interest rate risk management limits the net amount of
Moody’s Investor Services (‘Moody’s’) is A2 (stable outlook). The
floating rate debt to a specific cap, reviewed and agreed no
Group’s short-term credit ratings are A-1 and P-1 with Standard
less than annually by the Board.
& Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.
The majority of debt is issued at fixed interest rates and
Liquidity risk management changes in the floating rates of interest do not significantly
GSK’s policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated affect the Group’s net interest charge. Short-term borrowings
funding requirements. The strategy is to diversify liquidity including bank facilities are exposed to the risk of future
sources using a range of facilities and to maintain broad access changes in market interest rates as are the majority of cash and
to financial markets. Each day, GSK sweeps cash to or from a liquid investments.
number of global subsidiaries and central Treasury accounts for
Foreign exchange risk management
liquidity management purposes. GSK utilises both physical and
The Group’s objective is to minimise the exposure of overseas
notional cash pool arrangements as appropriate by location
operating subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local
and currency. For notional cash pools, liquidity is drawn against
currency income with local currency costs where possible.
foreign currency balances to provide both local funding and
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on external and
central liquidity as required and with balances actively
internal trade flows are selectively hedged. GSK’s internal
managed and maintained to appropriate levels. As balances in
trading transactions are matched centrally and inter-company
notional pooling arrangements are not settled across
payment terms are managed to reduce foreign currency risk.
currencies, gross cash and overdraft balances are reported.
Where possible, GSK manages the cash surpluses or borrowing
At 31 December 2023, GSK had £2.8 billion of borrowings requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward
repayable within one year and held £3.0 billion of cash and contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating
cash equivalents and liquid investments of which £2.2 billion currency.
was held centrally.
In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, the
Group seeks to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our
principal assets and cash flows. These are primarily
denominated in US Dollars, Euros and Sterling. Borrowings can
be swapped into other currencies as required.
243Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies There has been no change in the estimation techniques or
that match investments in overseas Group assets may be significant assumptions made during the current reporting
treated as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward period in assessing the loss allowance for financial assets at
contracts in major currencies are also used to reduce exposure amortised cost or at FVTOCI since the adoption of IFRS 9 at the
to the Group’s investment in overseas assets (see ‘Net start of the 2018 reporting period.
investment hedges’ section of this note for further details).
Treasury-related credit risk
Credit risk GSK sets global counterparty limits for each of GSK’s banking
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will default on its and investment counterparties based on long-term credit
contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group ratings from Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s. Usage of these
and arises on cash and cash equivalents and favourable limits is actively monitored.
derivative financial instruments held with banks and financial
GSK actively manages its exposure to credit risk, reducing
institutions as well as credit exposures to wholesale and retail
surplus cash balances wherever possible. This is part of GSK’s
customers, including outstanding receivables.
strategy to regionalise cash management and to concentrate
The Group considers its maximum credit risk at 31 December cash centrally as much as possible. The table below sets out the
2023 to be £9,528 million (31 December 2022: £10,180 million) credit exposure to counterparties by rating for liquid
which is the total of the Group’s financial assets with the investments, cash and cash equivalents and derivatives.
exception of ’Other investments’ (comprising equity
The gross asset position on each derivative contract is
investments) which bear equity risk rather than credit risk. See
considered for the purpose of this table, although, under ISDA
page 247 for details on the Group’s total financial assets. At
agreements, the amount at risk is the net position with each
31 December 2023, GSK’s greatest concentration of credit risk
counterparty. Table (e) on page 255 sets out the Group’s
was £1.2 billion with a wholesaler in the US (2022: £1.1 billion with
financial assets and liabilities on an offset basis.
a wholesaler in the US). See page 245 for further information on
the Group’s credit risk exposure in respect of the three largest
US wholesaler customers.
244Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
At 31 December 2023, £44 million (2022: £60 million) of cash is categorised as held with unrated or sub-investment grade rated
counterparties (lower than BBB-/Baa3). This exposure is concentrated in overseas banks used for local cash management or
investment purposes, including: £18 million in Saudi Arabia with Saudi British Bank; £15 million with Halk Bank in the UK; £7 million in
Nigeria held with United Bank for Africa, Zenith Bank, Access Bank and Stanbic IBTC Bank; £2 million in Brazil held with Banco
Bradesco, Itau UniBanco, Banco Do Brasil and Caixa Economica Federal; and £1 million with Banco De La Produccion in Ecuador.
Of the £55 million of bank balances and deposits held with BBB/Baa rated counterparties, £3.4 million was held with BBB-/Baa3
rated counterparties, including balances or deposits of £2.6 million with State Bank of India in India. These banks are used for local
investment purposes.
GSK measures expected credit losses over cash and cash equivalents as a function of individual counterparty credit ratings and
associated 12 month default rates. Expected credit losses over cash and cash equivalents and third-party financial derivatives are
deemed to be immaterial and no such loss has been experienced during 2023.
Credit ratings are assigned by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s respectively. Where the opinions of the two rating agencies differ,
GSK assigns the lower rating of the two to the counterparty. Where local rating agency or Fitch data is the only source available, the
ratings are converted to global ratings equivalent to those of Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s using published conversion tables.
These credit ratings form the basis of the assessment of the expected credit loss on Treasury-related balances held at amortised
cost being bank balances and deposits and Government securities.
BB+/Ba1
and below
AAA/Aaa AA/Aa A/A BBB/Baa /unrated Total
2023 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits – 28 1,815 55 44 1,942
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds 155 – – – – 155
Liquidity funds 839 – – – – 839
Government securities – 42 – – – 42
Third party financial derivatives – – 130 – – 130
Total 994 70 1,945 55 44 3,108
BB+/Ba1
and below
AAA/Aaa AA/Aa A/A BBB/Baa /unrated Total
2022 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits – – 1,215 49 60 1,324
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds 146 – – – – 146
Liquidity funds 2,253 – – – – 2,253
Government securities – 67 – – – 67
Third party financial derivatives – – 188 – – 188
Total 2,399 67 1,403 49 60 3,978
GSK’s centrally managed cash reserves amounted to £2.2 billion This concentration of trade receivables is reflective of standard
at 31 December 2023, all available within three months. This market practice in the US pharmaceuticals sector where a
includes £2.0 billion of cash managed by the Group for ViiV significant portion of sales are made to these three wholesalers,
Healthcare, a 78.3% owned subsidiary. The Group has invested as disclosed in Note 6 'Turnover and segment information'.
centrally managed liquid assets in bank deposits, Aaa/AAA GSK’s assessment is that there is limited credit risk associated
rated US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds with these customers.
and Aaa/AAA rated liquidity funds.
The Group’s credit risk monitoring activities relating to these
Wholesale and retail credit risk wholesalers include a review of their quarterly financial
information and Standard & Poor’s credit ratings, development
Outside the US, no customer accounts for more than 5% of the
of GSK internal risk ratings, and establishment and periodic
Group’s trade receivables balance.
review of credit limits.
In the US, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the
All new customers are subject to a credit vetting process and
Group sells its products through a small number of wholesalers
existing customers will be subject to a review at least annually.
in addition to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other
The vetting process and subsequent reviews involve obtaining
groups. Sales to the three largest wholesalers amounted to
information including the customer’s status as a government or
approximately 79% (2022:79%) of the sales of the US
private sector entity, audited financial statements, credit bureau
Commercial Operations business in 2023.
reports, debt rating agency (e.g. Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s)
At 31 December 2023, the Group had trade receivables due reports, payment performance history (from trade references,
from these three wholesalers totalling £3,319 million or 56% of industry credit groups) and bank references.
total trade receivables (2022: £3,001 million or 55%). The Group
is exposed to a concentration of credit risk in respect of these
wholesalers such that, if one or more of them encounters
financial difficulty, it could materially and adversely affect the
Group’s financial results.
245Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Trade receivables consist of amounts due from a large number The following methods and assumptions are used to measure
of customers, spread across diverse industries and the fair values of significant financial instruments carried at fair
geographical areas. Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on value on the balance sheet:
the financial condition of accounts receivable and, where
–Other investments – equity investments traded in an active
appropriate, credit insurance is purchased or factoring
market determined by reference to the relevant stock
arrangements put in place.
exchange quoted bid price; other equity investments
The amount of information obtained is proportional to the level determined by reference to the current market value of
of exposure being considered. The information is evaluated similar instruments, recent financing rounds or the discounted
quantitatively (i.e. credit score) and qualitatively (i.e. cash flows of the underlying net assets
judgement) in conjunction with the customer’s credit –Trade receivables carried at fair value – based on invoiced
requirements to determine a credit limit. amount
–Interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts,
Trade receivables are grouped into customer segments that
swaps and options – based on the present value of
have similar loss patterns to assess credit risk while other
contractual cash flows or option valuation models using
receivables and other financial assets are assessed individually.
market sourced data (exchange rates or interest rates) at the
Historical and forward-looking information is considered to
balance sheet date
determine the appropriate expected credit loss allowance.
–Cash equivalents carried at fair value – based on net asset
The Group believes there is no further credit risk provision value of the funds
required in excess of the allowance for expected credit losses –Contingent consideration for business acquisitions and
(see Note 26, ‘Trade and other receivables’). divestments – based on present values of expected future
Credit enhancements cash flows.
The Group uses credit enhancements including factoring and The following methods and assumptions are used to estimate
credit insurance to minimise the credit risk of the trade the fair values of significant financial instruments which are not
receivables in the Group. At 31 December 2023, £421 million measured at fair value on the balance sheet:
(2022: £332 million) of trade receivables were insured in order
–Receivables and payables, including put options, carried at
to protect the receivables from loss due to credit risks such as
amortised cost – approximates to the carrying amount
default, insolvency and bankruptcy.
–Liquid investments – approximates to the carrying amount
Each Group entity assesses the credit risk of its private –Cash and cash equivalents carried at amortised cost –
customers to determine if credit insurance is required. approximates to the carrying amount
–Long-term loans – based on quoted market prices (a level 1
Factoring arrangements are managed locally by entities and
fair value measurement) in the case of European and US
are used to mitigate risk arising from large credit risk
Medium Term Notes; approximates to the carrying amount in
concentrations. All factoring arrangements are non-recourse.
the case of other fixed rate borrowings and floating rate bank
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities loans
excluding lease liabilities –Short-term loans, overdrafts and commercial paper –
approximates to the carrying amount because of the short
The table on page 247 presents the carrying amounts and the
maturity of these instruments.
fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities
excluding lease liabilities at 31 December 2023 and
31 December 2022.
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included
at the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date.
246Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2023 2022
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
value value value value
Notes £m £m £m £m
Financial assets measured at amortised cost:
Other non-current assets b 9 9 21 21
Trade and other receivables b 3,829 3,829 3,789 3,789
Liquid investments 42 42 67 67
Cash and cash equivalents 1,942 1,942 1,324 1,324
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income (FVTOCI):
Other investments designated at FVTOCI a 931 931 1,153 1,153
Trade and other receivables a,b 2,541 2,541 2,327 2,327
Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss
(FVTPL):
Current equity investments and other investments a 2,410 2,410 4,401 4,401
Other non-current assets a,b 18 18 13 13
Trade and other receivables a,b 23 23 50 50
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and a,d,e
effective hedging relationship 98 98 165 165
Cash and cash equivalents a 994 994 2,399 2,399
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value a,d,e
movements through other comprehensive income) 32 32 25 25
Total financial assets 12,869 12,869 15,734 15,734
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Borrowings excluding obligations under lease liabilities:
– bonds in a designated hedging relationship d (5,348) (5,233) (6,322) (6,035)
– other bonds (10,456) (10,762) (12,017) (11,930)
– bank loans and overdrafts (191) (191) (447) (447)
– commercial paper in a designated hedging relationship (148) (148) (443) (443)
– other commercial paper (667) (667) (748) (748)
– other borrowings (1) (1) (2) (2)
Total borrowings excluding lease liabilities f (16,811) (17,002) (19,979) (19,605)
Trade and other payables c (13,383) (13,383) (14,065) (14,065)
Other provisions c (199) (199) (63) (63)
Other non-current liabilities c (54) (54) (84) (84)
Financial liabilities mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss
(FVTPL):
Contingent consideration liabilities a,c (6,662) (6,662) (7,068) (7,068)
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and a,d,e
effective hedging relationship (78) (78) (77) (77)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value a,d,e
movements through other comprehensive income) (36) (36) (106) (106)
Total financial liabilities excluding lease liabilities (37,223) (37,414) (41,442) (41,068)
Net financial assets and financial liabilities excluding lease liabilities (24,354) (24,545) (25,708) (25,334)
The valuation methodology used to measure fair value in the above table is described and categorised on page 246.
Trade and other receivables, Other non-current assets, Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Contingent consideration
liabilities and Other non-current liabilities are reconciled to the relevant Notes on pages 249 to 250.
247Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Fair value of investments in GSK shares
At 31 December 2023, the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts held GSK shares with a carrying value of £288 million
(2022: £354 million) and a market value of £853 million (2022: £861 million) based on quoted market price. The shares are held by
the ESOP Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under employee incentive schemes. In 2023, the carrying value,
which is the lower of cost or expected proceeds, of these shares has been recognised as a deduction from other reserves. At
31 December 2023, GSK held Treasury shares at a cost of £3,447 million (2022: £3,797 million) which has been deducted from
retained earnings.
(a) Financial instruments held at fair value
The following tables categorise the Group’s financial assets and liabilities held at fair value by the valuation methodology applied in
determining their fair value. Where possible, quoted prices in active markets are used (Level 1). Where such prices are not available,
the asset or liability is classified as Level 2, provided all significant inputs to the valuation model used are based on observable
market data. If one or more of the significant inputs to the valuation model is not based on observable market data, the instrument
is classified as Level 3. Other investments classified as Level 3 in the tables below comprise equity investments in unlisted entities
with which the Group has entered into research collaborations and investments which provide access to biotechnology
developments of potential interest.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2023 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI):
Other investments designated at FVTOCI 741 – 190 931
Trade and other receivables – 2,541 – 2,541
Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Current equity investments and other investments 2,204 – 206 2,410
Other non-current assets – – 18 18
Trade and other receivables – 23 – 23
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship – 98 – 98
Cash and cash equivalents 994 – – 994
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI) – 32 – 32
3,939 2,694 414 7,047
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Contingent consideration liabilities – – (6,662) (6,662)
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship – (78) – (78)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI) – (36) – (36)
– (114) (6,662) (6,776)
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2022 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI):
Other investments designated at FVTOCI 823 – 330 1,153
Trade and other receivables – 2,327 – 2,327
Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Current equity investments and other investments 4,087 – 314 4,401
Other non-current assets – – 13 13
Trade and other receivables – 50 – 50
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship – 165 – 165
Cash and cash equivalents 2,399 – – 2,399
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI) – 25 – 25
7,309 2,567 657 10,533
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Contingent consideration liabilities – – (7,068) (7,068)
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship – (77) – (77)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI) – (106) – (106)
– (183) (7,068) (7,251)
248Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Movements in the year for financial instruments measured using Level 3 valuation methods are presented below:
2023 2022
£m £m
At 1 January (6,411) (5,657)
Exchange adjustments – 46
Net losses recognised in the income statement (863) (1,627)
Net (losses)/ gains recognised in other comprehensive income (142) 91
Contingent consideration related to business acquisitions in the period – (482)
Settlement of contingent consideration liabilities 1,145 1,137
Additions 57 97
Disposals and settlements (25) (16)
Transfers from Level 3 (9) –
At 31 December (6,248) (6,411)
Of the total net losses of £863 million (2022: £1,627 million) attributable to Level 3 financial instruments which were recognised in the
income statement, £857 million (2022: £1,623 million) were in respect of financial instruments which were held at the end of the year
and were reported in Other operating income/expense. Charges of £934 million (2022: £1,431 million) arose from remeasurement of
the contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. A remeasurement
gain of £210 million (2022: £231 million loss) arose from remeasurement of the contingent consideration payable for the acquisition
of the Novartis Vaccines business. The acquisition of Affinivax in 2022 resulted in the additon of £482 million of contingent
consideration to Level 3 financial liabilities, with charges of £44 million (2022: £17 million) arising on the remeasurement of the
contingent consideration liability for the year. There were transfers of £9 million out of Level 3 financial instruments in the year (2022:
no transfers into or out of Level 3 financial instruments). Movements arising on the translation of overseas net assets for
consolidation into the Group accounts are recorded as exchange adjustments. Net gains and losses include the impact of other
exchange movements.
Financial liabilities measured using Level 3 valuation methods at 31 December included £5,718 million (2022: £5,890 million) in
respect of contingent consideration payable for the acquisition in 2012 of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. This
consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years and will vary in line with the future performance of specified products
and movements in certain foreign currencies. A further £424 million (2022: £673 million) is in respect of contingent consideration for
the acquisition in 2015 of the Novartis Vaccines business. This consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years and will
vary in line with the future performance of specified products, the achievement of certain milestone targets and movements in
certain foreign currencies. As a result of the acquisition of Affinivax in 2022, contingent consideration payable of £516 million (2022:
£501 million) is recognised at 31 December. This consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years and will vary in line
with the achievement of certain development milestones and movements in the USD/GBP exchange rate. Sensitivity analysis on
these balances is provided in Note 33, ‘Contingent consideration liabilities’.
(b) Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets in scope of IFRS 9
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets which fall
within the scope of IFRS 9 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial assets are predominantly non-interest earning. Non-
financial instruments include tax receivables, pension surplus balances and prepayments, which are outside the scope of IFRS 9.
2023 2022
Non- Non-
At At Amortised Financial financial At At Amortised Financial financial
FVTPL FVTOCI cost instruments instruments Total FVTPL FVTOCI cost instruments instruments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other
receivables (Note 26) 23 2,541 3,829 6,393 992 7,385 50 2,327 3,789 6,166 887 7,053
Other non-current assets
(Note 24) 18 – 9 27 1,557 1,584 13 – 21 34 1,160 1,194
41 2,541 3,838 6,420 2,549 8,969 63 2,327 3,810 6,200 2,047 8,247
Trade and other receivables include trade receivables of £5,905 million (2022: £5,452 million). The Group has portfolios in each of
the three business models under IFRS 9: £23 million (2022: £50 million), measured at FVTPL, is held to sell the contractual cash flows
as the receivables will be sold under a factoring arrangement, £2,541 million (2022: £2,327 million), measured at FVTOCI, is held to
either collect or sell the contractual cash flows as the receivables may be sold under a factoring agreement, and £3,341 million
(2022: £3,075 million), measured at amortised cost, is held to collect the contractual cash flows and there is no factoring agreement
in place.
249Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(c) Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Contingent consideration liabilities and Other non-
current liabilities in scope of IFRS 9
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Contingent consideration
liabilities and Other non-current liabilities which fall within the scope of IFRS 9 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial
liabilities are predominantly non-interest bearing. Non-financial instruments include payments on account, tax and social security
payables and provisions which do not arise from contractual obligations to deliver cash or another financial asset, which are outside
the scope of IFRS 9.
2023 2022
Non- Non-
Amortised Financial financial Amortised Financial financial
At FVTPL cost instruments instruments Total At FVTPL cost instruments instruments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other payables
(Note 29) – (13,383) (13,383) (2,461) (15,844) – (14,065) (14,065) (2,198) (16,263)
Other provisions
(Note 32) – (199) (199) (1,040) (1,239) – (63) (63) (1,121) (1,184)
Contingent consideration
liabilities (Note 33) (6,662) – (6,662) – (6,662) (7,068) – (7,068) – (7,068)
Other non-current liabilities
(Note 34) – (54) (54) (1,053) (1,107) – (84) (84) (815) (899)
(6,662) (13,636) (20,298) (4,554) (24,852) (7,068) (14,212) (21,280) (4,134) (25,414)
(d) Derivative financial instruments and hedging programmes
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and not as speculative investments and are classified as ‘held for trading’,
other than designated and effective hedging instruments, and are presented as current assets or liabilities if they are expected to be
settled within 12 months after the end of the reporting period, otherwise they are classified as non-current. The Group has the
following derivative financial instruments:
2023 2022
Fair value Fair value
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Current
Cash flow hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(net principal amount – £175 million (2022: £167 million)) – (2) 5 –
Net investment hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(net principal amount – £12,339 million (2022: £7,197 million)) 32 (34) 20 (106)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments 32 (36) 25 (106)
Current
Foreign exchange contracts
(net principal amount – £10,375 million (2022: £5,908 million)) 98 (78) 163 (76)
Embedded and other derivatives – – 2 (1)
Derivatives classified as held for trading 98 (78) 165 (77)
Total derivative instruments 130 (114) 190 (183)
250Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Fair value hedges
At 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022, the Group had no designated fair value hedges.
Net investment hedges
At 31 December 2023, certain foreign exchange contracts were designated as net investment hedges in respect of the foreign
currency translation risk arising on consolidation of the Group’s net investment in its European (Euro), American (USD), Singaporean
(SGD), Canadian (CAD) and Japanese (JPY) foreign operations as shown in the table below.
The carrying value of bonds on page 247 included £5,348 million (2022: £6,322 million) that were designated as hedging
instruments in net investment hedges.
Cash flow hedges
During 2022 and 2023, the Group entered into forward foreign exchange contracts which have been designated as cash flow
hedges. These were entered into to hedge the foreign exchange exposure arising on cash flows from Euro denominated coupon
payments relating to notes issued under the Group’s European Medium Term Note programme, and to hedge foreign currency
payments due on acquisitions, and collaboration or licensing arrangements.
The Group manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. In addition, the Group carries a
balance in reserves that arose from pre-hedging fluctuations in long-term interest rates when pricing bonds issued in prior years
and in the current year. The balance is reclassified to finance costs over the life of these bonds.
Foreign exchange risk
In the current year, the Group has designated certain foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps as cash flow and net
investment hedges. Foreign exchange derivative financial assets and liabilities are presented in the line ‘Derivative financial
instruments’ (either as assets or liabilities) on the Consolidated balance sheet. The following tables detail the foreign exchange
forward contracts and swaps outstanding at the end of the reporting period, as well as information on the related hedged items.
Hedge effectiveness is determined at the inception of the hedge relationship, and through periodic prospective effectiveness
assessments to ensure that an economic relationship exists between the hedged item and hedging instrument. The Group enters
into hedge relationships where the critical terms of the hedging instrument match exactly with the terms of the hedged item, and so
a qualitative assessment of effectiveness is performed. If changes in circumstances affect the terms of the hedged item such that
the critical terms no longer match exactly with the critical terms of the hedging instrument, the Group uses the hypothetical
derivative method to assess effectiveness.
The main source of hedge ineffectiveness in these hedging relationships is the effect of the counterparty and the Group’s own credit
risk on the fair value of the foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps, which is not reflected in the fair value of the hedged
item attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates. No other sources of ineffectiveness emerged from these hedging
relationships. No ineffectiveness was recorded from cash flow hedges in 2023 (2022: £nil). No ineffectiveness was recorded from net
investment hedges (2022: £nil).
2023
Periodic
change in
value for
calculating
Average Foreign Net Notional Carrying hedge
exchange rate currency value value ineffectiveness
Hedging instruments £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Foreign exchange contracts
Buy foreign currency:
Less than 3 months 1.27 USD 145 (1) (1)
3 to 6 months – – – – –
Over 6 months 1.25 USD 35 (1) (1)
Sell foreign currency:
Less than 3 months 1.16 EUR (5) – –
175 (2) (2)
251Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2023
Periodic
change in
value for
calculating
Average Foreign Net notional Carrying hedge
exchange rate currency value value ineffectiveness
Hedging instruments £m £m £m
Net investment hedges
Foreign exchange contracts
Sell foreign currency:
Less than 3 months 1.15 EUR 9,146 (12) 126
181.42 JPY 133 (1) 28
1.27 USD 2,633 8 97
Over 6 months 1.67 CAD 260 2 10
1.66 SGD 167 1 7
Borrowings:
Less than 3 months EUR 148 (148) 12
3 to 6 months – – – –
Over 6 months JPY 236 (235) (3)
EUR 5,127 (5,113) 125
17,850 (5,498) 402
2023
Cumulative balance in cash Balance in cash flow hedge
Periodic change in value flow hedge reserve/foreign reserve arising from hedging
for calculating hedge currency translation reserve relationships for which hedge
ineffectiveness for continuing hedgesaccounting is no longer applied
Hedged items £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows from a highly probable forecast
transaction 2 (2) –
Net investment hedges
Net investment in foreign operations (402) (725) –
2022
Periodic
change in
value for
calculating
Average Foreign Net notional Carrying hedge
exchange rate currency value value ineffectiveness
Hedging instruments £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Foreign exchange contracts
Buy foreign currency:
Less than 3 months 1.23 USD 100 2 2
3 to 6 months 1.16 EUR 50 2 2
Over 6 months 1.15 EUR 24 1 1
Sell foreign currency:
Less than 3 months 1.14 EUR (7) – –
167 5 5
252Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2022
Periodic
change in
value for
calculating
Average Foreign Net notional Carrying hedge
exchange rate currency value value ineffectiveness
Hedging instruments £m £m £m
Net investment hedges
Foreign exchange contracts
Sell foreign currency:
Less than 3 months 1.14 EUR 6,559 (103) (317)
160.90 JPY 194 (3) (9)
3 to 6 months – – – – –
Over 6 months 1.57 CAD 270 18 15
1.59 SGD 174 2 1
Borrowings:
Less than 3 months EUR 293 (293) (4)
3 to 6 months EUR 150 (150) (3)
Over 6 months EUR 6,341 (6,322) (300)
13,981 (6,851) (617)
2022
Cumulative balance in cash Balance in cash flow hedge
Periodic change in value flow hedge reserve/foreign reserve arising from hedging
for calculating hedge currency translation reserve relationships for which hedge
ineffectiveness for continuing hedgesaccounting is no longer applied
Hedged items £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows from a highly probable forecast
transaction (2) 2 –
Variability in cash flows from foreign exchange exposure
arising on Euro denominated coupon payments relating to
debt issued (3) 2 –
Net investment hedges –
Net investment in foreign operations 617 (1,120) –
£nil (2022: £3 million) of balances in the cash flow hedge reserve arise from hedging relationships for which hedge accounting is no
longer applied.
The following table details the effectiveness of the hedging relationships and the amounts reclassified from the hedging reserve to
profit or loss:
2023
Amount reclassified to profit or loss Amount reclassified to balance sheet
Hedged Line item in
Amount Line item future cash profit or loss Line item
Hedging of hedge in profit or flows Due to in which in balance
gains/(losses) ineffectiveness loss in no longer hedged item reclassification Due to hedged sheet in which
recognised in recognised in which hedge expected to affecting adjustment item affecting reclassification
reserves profit or loss ineffectiveness occur profit or loss is included balance sheet adjustment
£m £m is included £m £m £m is included
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows from a (41) – Finance – – Finance 37 Intangible
highly probable forecast income or income or assets
transaction expense expense
Variability in cash flows from (1) – Finance – – Finance – –
foreign exchange exposure income or income or
arising on Euro denominated expense expense
coupon payments relating to
debt issued
Net investment hedges
Net investment in foreign 402 – Finance – 7 Other – –
operations income or income or
expense expense
253Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2022
Amount reclassified to profit or loss Amount reclassified to balance sheet
Hedged
Amount Line item future cash Line item in Line item
Hedging of hedge in profit or flows Due to profit or loss in balance
gains/(losses) ineffectiveness loss in no longer hedged item in which Due to hedged sheet in which
recognised in recognised in which hedge expected to affecting reclassification item affecting reclassification
reserves profit or loss ineffectiveness occur profit or loss adjustment balance sheet adjustment
£m £m is included £m £m is included £m is included
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows from (5) – Finance – – – 8 Intangible
a highly probable forecast income or assets
transaction expense
Variability in cash flows from 4 – Finance – (2) Finance – –
foreign exchange exposure income or income or
arising on Euro denominated expense expense
coupon payments relating to
debt issued
Net investment hedges
Net investment in foreign (617) – Finance – 194 Discontinued – –
operations income or Operations (1)
expense
(1) Reclassified to the Consolidated income statement on the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business.
Interest rate risk
The Group manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps, where at quarterly intervals the
difference between fixed contract rates and floating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional principal
amounts are exchanged.
There are none of these swaps outstanding at 31 December 2023 or at 31 December 2022.
The only impact on these financial statements of interest rate swaps is where the interest rate risk on an element of future debt
issuance has been managed by entering into forward starting interest rate swaps, effectively to lock in the interest rates on the debt
in advance. These were closed out at the time of issuing the debt, and the resulting gain or loss held in the Cash flow hedge reserve
and reclassified to income statement as the interest payments on the debt impacted the income statement.
Forward starting interest rate swaps
Forward starting interest rate contracts, exchanging floating interest for fixed interest, were designated as cash flow hedges to
hedge the interest variability of the interest cash flows associated with future fixed rate debt.
Interest rate swaps
Interest rate swap contract assets and liabilities are presented (when applicable) in the line ‘Derivative financial instruments’ (either
as assets or liabilities) on the Consolidated balance sheet.
£21 million (2022: £24 million) of balances in the cash flow hedge reserve arise from hedge relationships for which hedge
accounting is no longer applied.
The following table details the effectiveness of the hedging relationships and the amounts reclassified from the hedging reserve to
profit or loss:
2023
Amount reclassified to profit or loss
Line item Due to Line item
Amount in profit or hedged future in profit or loss in
Hedging of hedge loss in cash flows Due to which
gains/(losses) ineffectiveness which hedge no longer hedged item reclassification
recognised in recognisedineffectiveness is expected to affecting adjustment
reserves in profit or loss included occur profit or loss is included
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Pre-hedging of long-term interest rates: – – Finance – 4 Finance
Matured in the past income or income or
expense expense
254Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2022
Amount reclassified to profit or loss
Line item Due to Line item
Amount in profit or hedged future in profit or loss in
Hedging of hedge loss in cash flows Due to which
gains/(losses) ineffectiveness which hedge no longer hedged item reclassification
recognised in recognised in ineffectiveness is expected to affecting adjustment
reserves profit or loss included occur profit or loss is included
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Pre-hedging of long-term interest rates:
Matured in the past (23) – Finance – 3 Finance
income or income or
expense expense
(e) Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet where there is a legally enforceable right
to offset the recognised amounts, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability
simultaneously. There are also arrangements that do not meet the criteria for offsetting but still allow for the related amounts to be
offset in certain circumstances, such as bankruptcy or the termination of a contract.
The following tables set out the financial assets and liabilities that are offset, or subject to enforceable master netting arrangements
and other similar agreements but not offset, as at 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022. The column ‘Net amount’ shows the
impact on the Group’s balance sheet if all offset rights were exercised.
Gross Gross Net financial Related
financial financial assets/ amounts not
assets/ (liabilities)/ (liabilities) per set off in the
(liabilities) assets set off balance sheet balance sheet Net
31 December 2023 £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 6,394 (1) 6,393 – 6,393
Derivative financial instruments 130 – 130 (108) 22
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (13,384) 1 (13,383) – (13,383)
Derivative financial instruments (114) – (114) 108 (6)
Gross Gross
financial Financial Net financial Related
assets/ (liabilities)/ assets/ amounts not Net
(liabilities) assets offset (liabilities) offset balance
31 December 2022 £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 6,166 – 6,166 – 6,166
Derivative financial instruments 190 – 190 (163) 27
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (14,065) – (14,065) – (14,065)
Derivative financial instruments (183) – (183) 163 (20)
Amounts which do not meet the criteria for offsetting on the balance sheet but could be settled net in certain circumstances
principally relate to derivative transactions under ISDA (International Swaps and Derivatives Association) agreements where each
party has the option to settle amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party. As there is presently not a legally
enforceable right of offset, these amounts have not been offset in the balance sheet, but have been presented separately in the
table above.
255Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(f) Debt interest rate repricing table
The following table sets out the exposure of the Group to interest rates on debt, including commercial paper. The maturity analysis
of fixed rate debt is stated by contractual maturity and of floating rate debt by interest rate repricing dates. For the purpose of this
table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings other than lease liabilities.
2023 2022
Total
debt Total
£m £m
Floating and fixed rate debt less than one year (2,657) (3,785)
Between one and two years (1,434) (1,714)
Between two and three years (1,475) (1,490)
Between three and four years (740) (1,505)
Between four and five years (2,350) (748)
Between five and ten years (3,031) (4,736)
Greater than ten years (5,124) (6,001)
Total (16,811) (19,979)
Original issuance profile:
Fixed rate interest (15,847) (18,355)
Floating rate interest (964) (1,624)
(16,811) (19,979)
256Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(g) Sensitivity analysis
The tables below illustrate the estimated impact on the income statement and equity as a result of hypothetical market movements
in foreign exchange and interest rates in relation to the Group’s financial instruments. The range of variables chosen for the
sensitivity analysis reflects management’s view of changes which are reasonably possible over a one-year period.
Foreign exchange sensitivity
The Group operates internationally and is primarily exposed to foreign exchange risk in relation to Sterling against movements in US
Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen. Foreign exchange risk arises from the translation of financial assets and liabilities which are not in
the functional currency of the entity that holds them. Based on the Group’s net financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December, a
weakening and strengthening of Sterling against these currencies, with all other variables held constant, is illustrated in the tables
below. The tables exclude financial instruments that expose the Group to foreign exchange risk where this risk is fully hedged with
another financial instrument.
2023 2022
Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in
income income
Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar 61 99
15 cent appreciation of the US Dollar 97 155
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (4) (7)
15 cent appreciation of the Euro (7) (12)
10 yen appreciation of the Yen – –
15 yen appreciation of the Yen – (1)
2023 2022
Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in
income income
Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent depreciation of the US Dollar (52) (84)
15 cent depreciation of the US Dollar (76) (121)
10 cent depreciation of the Euro 4 6
15 cent depreciation of the Euro 5 9
10 yen depreciation of the Yen – –
15 yen depreciation of the Yen – –
The equity impact, shown below, for foreign exchange sensitivity relates to derivative and non-derivative financial instruments
hedging the Group’s net investments in its European (Euro) foreign operations and cash flow hedges of its foreign exchange
exposure arising on Euro denominated coupon payments relating to notes issued under the Group’s European Medium Term
Note programme.
2023 2022
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in equity in equity
Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar (209) –
15 cent appreciation of the US Dollar (327) –
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (1,372) (1,290)
15 cent appreciation in Euro (2,160) (2,034)
2023 2022
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in equity in equity
Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent depreciation of the US Dollar 178 –
15 cent depreciation of the US Dollar 258 –
10 cent depreciation of the Euro 1,152 1,080
15 cent depreciation of the Euro 1,662 1,557
257Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The tables below present the Group’s sensitivity to a weakening and strengthening of Sterling against the relevant currency based
on the composition of net debt as shown in Note 30, 'Net debt', adjusted for the effects of foreign exchange derivatives that are not
part of net debt but affect future foreign currency cash flows.
2023 2022
(Increase)/decrease (Increase)/decrease
in net debt in net debt
Impact of foreign exchange movements on net debt £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar (622) (999)
15 cent appreciation of the US Dollar (974) (1,570)
10 cent appreciation of the Euro 386 11
15 cent appreciation of the Euro 609 17
10 yen appreciation of the Yen (5) 13
15 yen appreciation of the Yen (7) 20
2023 2022
(Increase)/decrease (Increase)/decrease
in net debt in net debt
Impact of foreign exchange movements on net debt £m £m
10 cent depreciation of the US Dollar 531 846
15 cent depreciation of the US Dollar 769 1,222
10 cent depreciation of the Euro (325) (9)
15 cent depreciation of the Euro (468) (13)
10 yen depreciation of the Yen 4 (12)
15 yen depreciation of the Yen 6 (17)
Interest rate sensitivity
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its outstanding borrowings and investments where any changes in interest rates will
affect future cash flows or the fair values of financial instruments.
The majority of debt is issued at fixed interest rates and changes in the floating rates of interest do not significantly affect the
Group’s net interest charge, although the majority of cash and liquid investments earn floating rates of interest.
The table below hypothetically shows the Group’s sensitivity to changes in interest rates in relation to Sterling, US Dollar and Euro
floating rate financial assets and liabilities. A 1% (100 basis points) or 1.5% (150 basis points) movement in EUR, USD or Sterling
interest rates is not deemed to have a material effect on equity. A 1% (100 basis points) or 1.5% (150 basis points) decrease in EUR,
USD or Sterling interest rates would have an equal and opposite impact to that shown below.
2023 2022
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in income in income
Income statement impact of interest rate movements £m £m
1% (100 basis points) increase in Sterling interest rates 41 36
1.5% (150 basis points) increase in Sterling interest rates 62 55
1% (100 basis points) increase in US Dollar interest rates (34) (34)
1.5% (150 basis points) increase in US Dollar interest rates (51) (51)
1% (100 basis points) increase in Euro interest rates (9) (13)
1.5% (150 basis points) increase in Euro interest rates (13) (19)
258Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(h) Contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative instruments
The following tables provide an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows including interest payable for the Group’s non-
derivative financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis. For the purpose of this table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings
except for lease liabilities. Interest is calculated based on debt held at 31 December without taking account of future issuance.
Floating rate interest is estimated using the prevailing interest rate at the balance sheet date. Cash flows in foreign currencies are
translated using spot rates at 31 December.
Finance Trade payables
charge and other
Interest Lease on lease liabilities not
Debt on debt liabilities liabilities in net debt Total
At 31 December 2023 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (2,660) (547) (156) (41) (14,526) – (17,930)
Between one and two years (1,436) (507) (214) (36) (1,469) – (3,662)
Between two and three years (1,477) (466) (134) (31) (1,150) – (3,258)
Between three and four years (742) (449) (114) (27) (1,406) – (2,738)
Between four and five years (2,359) (399) (88) (23) (940) – (3,809)
Between five and ten years (3,054) (1,611) (325) (75) (2,037) – (7,102)
Greater than ten years (5,172) (1,467) (176) (21) (1,043) – (7,879)
Gross contractual cash flows (16,900) (5,446) (1,207) (254) (22,571) – (46,378)
Finance Trade payables
charge and other
Interest Lease on lease liabilities not
Debt on debt liabilities liabilities in net debt Total
At 31 December 2022 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (3,786) (594) (167) (25) (15,362) (19,934)
Between one and two years (1,717) (570) (201) (22) (1,097) (3,607)
Between two and three years (1,496) (531) (127) (19) (1,034) (3,207)
Between three and four years (1,508) (489) (97) (15) (1,277) (3,386)
Between four and five years (751) (472) (80) (13) (1,008) (2,324)
Between five and ten years (4,765) (1,810) (201) (41) (2,641) (9,458)
Greater than ten years (6,063) (1,856) (135) (11) (1,134) (9,199)
Gross contractual cash flows (20,086) (6,322) (1,008) (146) (23,553) (51,115)
The table below provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows for the Group’s derivative instruments excluding
equity options which do not give rise to cash flows, and other embedded derivatives, which are not material, using undiscounted
cash flows. Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using spot rates at 31 December. The gross cash flows of foreign
exchange contracts are presented for the purpose of this table although, in practice, the Group uses standard settlement
arrangements to reduce its liquidity requirements on these instruments.
2023 2022
Gross cash inflows Gross cash outflows Gross cash inflows Gross cash outflows
Foreign exchange forward Foreign exchange forward Foreign exchange forward Foreign exchange forward
contracts and swaps contracts and swaps contracts and swaps contracts and swaps
£m £m £m £m
Less than one year 31,961 (31,944) 24,418 (24,410)
Gross contractual cash flows 31,961 (31,944) 24,418 (24,410)
259Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
45. Employee share schemes
GSK operates several employee share schemes, including the Share Value Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees to
acquire shares or ADS in GSK plc at no cost after a three-year vesting period and the Performance Share Plan, whereby awards are
granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GSK plc at no cost, subject to the achievement by the Group of specified
performance targets. The granting of these restricted share awards has replaced the granting of options to employees as the cost
of the schemes more readily equates to the potential gain to be made by the employee. The Group also operates savings related
share option schemes, whereby options are granted to employees to acquire shares in GSK plc at a discounted price.
Grants of restricted share awards are normally exercisable at the end of the three-year vesting or performance period. Awards are
normally granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GSK plc but in some circumstances may be settled in cash. Grants under
savings-related share option schemes are normally exercisable after three years’ saving. In accordance with UK practice, the
majority of options under the savings-related share option schemes are granted at a price 20% below the market price ruling at the
date of grant. Options under historical share option schemes were granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant.
The total charge for share-based incentive plans in 2023 was £321 million (2022: £314 million; 2021: £345 million). Of this amount,
£244 million (2022: £243 million; 2021: £258 million) arose from the Share Value Plan. See Note 9, ‘Employee costs’ for further details.
GSK share award schemes
Share Value Plan
Under the Share Value Plan, share awards are granted to certain employees at no cost. The awards vest after two and a half to
three years and there are no performance criteria attached. The fair value of these awards is determined based on the closing
share price on the day of grant, after deducting the expected future dividend yield of 3.8% (2022: 3.2%; 2021: 3.8%) over the
duration of the award.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number of shares and ADS issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1 January 2021 28,874 16,116
Awards granted 11,220 £13.28 6,358 $36.68
Awards exercised (10,074) (5,240)
Awards cancelled (1,776) (1,705)
At 31 December 2021 28,244 15,529
Awards granted 10,987 £13.00 6,133 $30.64
Awards exercised (9,538) (4,919)
Awards cancelled (1,718) (1,314)
At 31 December 2022 27,975 15,429
Awards granted 11,548 £12.79 6,449 $31.65
Awards exercised (8,599) (4,856)
Awards cancelled (1,144) (797)
At 31 December 2023 29,780 16,225
Performance Share Plan
Under the Performance Share Plan, share awards are granted to Directors and senior executives at no cost. The percentage of
each award that vests is based upon the performance of the Group over a defined measurement period with dividends reinvested
during the same period. For awards granted from 2020, the performance conditions are based on four measures over a three-year
performance period. These are adjusted free cash flow (30%), TSR (30%), R&D new product performance (20%) and pipeline
progress (20%). For awards granted from 2022, the performance conditions are based on five measures over a three-year
performance period. These are TSR (30%), pipeline progress (20%), profit measure (20%), sale measure (20%) and ESG
environment (10%).
The fair value of the awards is determined based on the closing share price on the day of grant. For TSR performance elements, this
is adjusted by the likelihood of that condition being met, as assessed at the time of grant.
During 2023, awards were made of 4.3 million shares at a weighted fair value of £12.40 and 1.0 million ADS at a weighted fair value
of £29.96. At 31 December 2023, there were outstanding awards over 13.3 million shares and 2.7 million ADS.
260Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
45. Employee share schemes continued
Share options and savings-related options
For the purposes of valuing savings-related options to arrive at the share-based payment charge, a Black-Scholes option pricing
model has been used. The assumptions used in the model are as follows:
2023 Grant 2022 Grant 2021 Grant
Risk-free interest rate 4.57% 3.37% 0.74%
Dividend yield 4.0% 3.3% 3.8%
Volatility 34% 36% 27%
Expected life 3 years 3 years 3 years
Savings-related options grant price (including 20% discount) £11.20 £11.39 £12.07
Savings-related
Options outstanding for the Share Save Plan share option schemes
Weighted
Number exercise
000 price
At 31 December 2023 6,196 £11.13
Range of exercise prices on options outstanding at year end £10.34 — £14.15
Weighted average market price on exercise during year £14.32
Weighted average remaining contractual life 1.9 years
Options over 1.9 million shares were granted during the year under the savings-related share option scheme at a weighted average
fair value of £4.08. At 31 December 2023, 4.2 million of the savings-related share options were not exercisable.
There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GSK plc to satisfy awards made
under employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the ESOP Trusts
purchase shares with finance provided by the Group by way of loans or contributions. The costs of running the ESOP Trusts are
charged to the income statement. Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves and amortised down to the
value of proceeds, if any, receivable from employees on exercise by a transfer to retained earnings. The trustees have waived their
rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
At 31 December 2023, 58,817,197 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, out of which 58,493,518 were held for the future exercise of
share options and share awards and 323,679 shares were held for the Executive Supplemental Savings Plan.
Shares held for share award schemes 2023 2022
Number of shares (000) 58,817 59,814
£m £m
Nominal value 18 19
Carrying value 288 353
Market value 853 861
Shares held for share option schemes 2023 2022
Number of shares (000) – 65
£m £m
Nominal value – –
Carrying value – 1
Market value – 1
261Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
46. Principal Group companies
The following represent the principal subsidiaries and their countries of incorporation of the Group at 31 December 2023. The equity
share capital of these entities is shown in the percentage columns. All companies are incorporated in their principal country of
operation except where stated.
England % Scotland %
Glaxo Group Limited 100 GSK (No.1) Scottish Limited Partnership 100
Glaxo Operations UK Limited 100
Glaxo Wellcome UK Limited 100 US
%
GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc 100
Affinivax, Inc 100
GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited 100
Corixa Corporation 100
GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc 100
GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. 100
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited(a) 100
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc. 100
GlaxoSmithKline IHC Limited 100
GlaxoSmithKline LLC 100
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.2) Limited 100
GSK Equity Investments, Limited 100
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.3) Limited 100
Human Genome Sciences, Inc 100
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.4) Limited 100
Stiefel Laboratories, Inc 100
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Development Limited 100
Tesaro, Inc. 100
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Limited 100
ViiV Healthcare Company 78.3
GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited 100
GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited(a) 100 Others %
GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited 100 Glaxo Saudi Arabia Limited (Saudi Arabia) 100
GlaxoSmithKline US Trading Limited 100 Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd (Singapore) 100
Setfirst Limited 100 GlaxoSmithKline (Thailand) Limited (Thailand) 100
SmithKline Beecham Limited 100 GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd (Australia) 100
ViiV Healthcare Finance Limited 78.3 GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada (Brazil) 100
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.3) Limited 78.3 GlaxoSmithKline Far East B.V. (Taiwan) 100
Viiv Healthcare UK Limited 78.3 GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. (Turkey) 100
GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (Canada) 100
Europe %
GlaxoSmithKline K.K. (Japan) 100
GlaxoSmithKline AG (Switzerland) 100
GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited (Republic of Korea) 100
Glaxo Wellcome Production S.A.S (France) 100
GlaxoSmithKline Limited (Hong Kong) 100
GlaxoSmithKline B.V. (Netherlands) 100
GlaxoSmithKline Mexico S.A. de C.V. (Mexico) 100
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA (Belgium) 100
GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited (Pakistan) 82.6
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG (Germany) 100
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited (India) 75
GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing SpA (Italy) 100
GSK Enterprise Management Co, Ltd (China) 100
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH (Austria) 100
GSK Pharma Vietnam Company Limited (Vietnam) 100
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA (Belgium) 100
ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec (Canada) 100
GlaxoSmithKline S.A. (Spain) 100
ViiV Healthcare K.K (Japan) 78.3
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. (Italy) 100
ViiV Healthcare ULC (Canada) 78.3
GlaxoSmithKline Single Member A.E.B.E. (Greece) 100
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (Republic of
Ireland)(b) 100
GSK Capital B.V. (Netherlands)(b) 100
GSK Services Sp z o.o. (Poland) 100
GSK Vaccines GmbH (Germany) 100
GSK Vaccines S.r.l. (Italy) 100
JSC GlaxoSmithKline Trading (Russia) 100
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline (France) 100
Laboratorios ViiV Healthcare, S.L. (Spain) 78.3
ViiV Healthcare GmbH (Germany) 78.3
ViiV Healthcare S.r.l. (Italy) 78.3
ViiV Healthcare SAS (France) 78.3
(a) Directly held wholly-owned subsidiary of GSK plc.
(b) Tax resident in UK.
The subsidiaries and associates listed above principally affect the figures in the Group’s financial statements. Each of
GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc., GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc, GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc, GSK Capital BV and GlaxoSmithKline LLC, is
a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of the company, and the Company has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the securities
issued by each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc., GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc, GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc, GSK Capital BV and
GlaxoSmithKline LLC.
+See pages 306 to 314 for a complete list of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures, which form part of these financial statements.
262Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
47. Legal proceedings
The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative On 2 December 2020, Teva filed a petition for rehearing en
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, banc. The court granted Teva’s petition, but only for a rehearing
tax, anti-trust, consumer fraud and governmental investigations. by the three-member panel that issued the original decision. On
The most significant of these matters, other than tax matters, 5 August 2021, the original panel issued its rehearing opinion
are described below. The Group makes provision for these where the majority again reinstated the jury’s damages award
proceedings on a regular basis as summarised in Note 2, of $235.51 million in GSK’s favour.
‘Accounting principles and policies’ and Note 32, ‘Other
Teva again filed a petition for rehearing en banc which was
provisions’. Note 2 also describes when disclosure is made of
rejected by the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on 11
proceedings for which there is no provision. Legal expenses
February 2022. On 11 July 2022, Teva filed a petition for writ of
incurred and provisions related to legal claims are charged to
certiorari with the Supreme Court of the United States seeking
selling, general and administration costs. The Group does not
to overturn the Federal Court decision. On 15 May 2023, the US
believe that information about the amount sought by plaintiffs,
Supreme Court denied Teva’s request. Certain issues remain to
if that is known, would be meaningful with respect to those legal
be resolved at the District Court and the parties await the
proceedings. This is due to a number of factors, including, but
scheduling of a status conference.
not limited to, the stage of proceedings, the entitlement of
parties to appeal a decision and clarity as to theories of liability, Dolutegravir Proceedings
damages and governing law.
–Tivicay/Triumeq
At 31 December 2023, the Group’s aggregate provision for legal
In September 2021, ViiV Healthcare received a paragraph IV
and other disputes (not including tax matters described in Note
letter from Lupin relating to the Tivicay 5mg dosage for oral
14, ‘Taxation’) was £267 million. There can be no assurance that
suspension, challenging only the crystal form patent. On 2
any losses that result from the outcome of any legal
November 2021, ViiV Healthcare filed suit against Lupin in the
proceedings will not materially exceed the amount of the
US District Court for the District of Delaware. In March 2023, the
provisions reported in the Group’s financial statements. If this
parties reached a settlement, thereby concluding the matter.
were to happen, it could have a material adverse impact on the
results of operations of the Group in the reporting period in –Juluca
which the judgements are incurred or the settlements entered
On 12 June 2020, Cipla sent ViiV Healthcare a paragraph IV
into.
letter related to Juluca, and on 22 July 2020, ViiV Healthcare
Intellectual property filed suit against Cipla in federal court in Delaware. In March
2023, the parties reached a settlement, thereby concluding the
Intellectual property claims include challenges to the validity
matter.
and enforceability of the Group’s patents on various products or
processes as well as assertions of non-infringement of those RSV
patents. A loss in such cases could result in loss of patent
On 7 June 2022, Pfizer, Inc. filed suit in the London High Court
protection for the product at issue. The consequences of any
challenging the validity and requesting revocation of three GSK
such loss could be a significant decrease in sales of that
European patents relating to RSV vaccine technology.
product and could materially affect future results of operations
Corresponding invalidity suits against additional patents were
for the Group.
filed in the District Court of the Hague in the Netherlands in
Coreg January 2023 and in the French-speaking Enterprise Court of
Brussels in Belgium in March 2023. In each of those matters
In 2014, GSK initiated suit against Teva for inducing
GSK counterclaimed that Pfizer’s RSV vaccine infringes GSK’s
infringement of its patent relating to the use of carvedilol
patents. On 2 August 2023, GSK filed a patent infringement suit
(Coreg) in decreasing mortality caused by congestive heart
against Pfizer in the United States District Court for the District
failure. In June 2017, the case proceeded to a jury trial in the US
of Delaware alleging infringement of four US GSK patents by
District Court for the District of Delaware. The jury returned a
Pfizer’s RSV vaccine, Abrysvo. Another two GSK patents were
verdict in GSK’s favour, awarding GSK lost profits and
added to the US litigation on 30 November 2023.
reasonable royalties for a total award of $235.51 million. On 29
March 2018, the trial judge ruled on post-trial motions filed by The trial in the UK action took place in June 2023. A decision is
Teva and found that substantial evidence at trial did not expected by the end of Q2 2024. In the Netherlands, two
support the jury’s finding of induced infringement, overturning separate first-instance hearings have been scheduled. The first
the jury award. GSK appealed, and on 2 October 2020, a was held on 26 January 2024 and the second is scheduled for 1
divided panel of the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit March 2024. In Belgium, trial on the merits is expected in Q3
reversed the district court’s ruling and reinstated the jury award 2024 with a first instance decision likely in Q1 2025. A trial date
in GSK’s favour. in the US has yet to be set. GSK is seeking monetary
compensation from Pfizer for Pfizer’s infringing sales of Abrysvo.
GSK’s sales of Arexvy are not at issue in these litigations.
263Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
47. Legal proceedings continued
Product liability GSK has been named as a defendant by approximately 78,000
plaintiffs in several US state jurisdictions. Of these plaintiffs,
The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product approximately 72,000 plaintiffs filed in Delaware. Most of the
liability lawsuits. Delaware plaintiffs allege a cancer other than the five cancers
being pursued by Plaintiffs in the MDL proceeding. The
Avandia
Delaware court held a general causation hearing on the
There are two pending US class actions (both filed in 2010) by admissibility of expert testimony for the 10 cancers Plaintiffs
third-party payers which assert claims under the Racketeer have decided to pursue (breast, colorectal, kidney, prostate,
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) and state pancreatic, lung, bladder, liver, esophageal, and stomach) on
consumer protection laws. In December 2019, the Third Circuit 22-24 January 2024.
Court of Appeals reversed the summary judgements granted in
favour of the Group and remanded the third-party payer cases In the California Zantac litigation Cases JCCP 5150 (JCCP), the
back to district court. Discovery is complete, and class court issued a Sargon ruling in the first case scheduled for trial
certification and summary judgment briefing has been (Goetz). The court found that the plaintiff’s experts’ causation
completed. A hearing on certain Daubert motions relating to opinions are admissible and can be presented to a jury. The
experts was held on 1 February 2024. GSK has requested oral ruling applied only to the Goetz case and does not affect any
argument on class certification, which could be scheduled other state court cases. On 23 June 2023, GSK reached a
thereafter. confidential settlement in the Goetz case. On 11 October 2023,
GSK announced it had reached confidential settlements in the
Zantac Cantlay/Harper case as well as the three remaining breast
In 2019, the Group was contacted by several regulatory cancer bellwether cases in California. On 1 February 2024, GSK
authorities regarding the detection of N-Nitroso-dimethylamine announced it had reached a confidential settlement in the
(NDMA) in Zantac (ranitidine) products. Based on information Browne case filed in California state court. The case, which was
available at the time and correspondence with regulators, the set to begin trial on 20 February 2024, will be dismissed. The
Group made the decision to suspend the release, distribution settlements reflect GSK’s desire to avoid the distraction related
and supply of all dose forms of Zantac to all markets pending to protracted litigation. GSK does not admit any liability in the
the outcome of the ongoing tests and investigations. Also, as a settlements and will continue to vigorously defend itself based
precautionary action, the Group made the decision to initiate a on the facts and the science in all other Zantac cases. The next
voluntary pharmacy/retail level recall of Zantac products case scheduled for trial in the JCCP is Boyd (colorectal). The
globally. Court has set a Sargon hearing for 29 February 2024 and a trial
date of 2 April 2024. Additional bellwether cases in the JCCP
On 30 April 2020, the European Medicines Agency (EMA)
have been and will be set for trial in Q2 and Q3 2024.
recommended the suspension of ranitidine medicines. Following
the publication of the EMA’s recommendation, the Company Multiple trials in other state courts have been set with dates in
communicated a decision not to re-enter the market. In the US, 2024 and 2025, including in Illinois, Texas, and Florida. The first
FDA requested that all manufacturers withdraw ranitidine of these cases is Valadez (colorectal) which is scheduled for trial
products from the market. on 25 April 2024. There are 14 additional cases in Illinois with
trial dates in 2024 and 2025. Cases in Texas and Florida do not
The Group was named as a defendant in approximately 2,200
yet have firm trial dates, although trials are expected to occur in
personal injury cases filed in the federal Zantac Multidistrict
2024 and 2025.
Litigation (MDL) court proceeding in the Southern District of
Florida. In the MDL, plaintiffs originally identified 10 different Outside the US, there are two proposed class actions pending
types of cancers they wished to pursue. Plaintiffs subsequently against GSK in Ontario and Quebec, Canada along with a class
dropped 5 of the 10 cancers, and proceeded only as to bladder, action in Israel. In Canada, a certification hearing was held in
esophageal, stomach, liver, and pancreatic cancers, although October 2022 in the British Columbia proposed class action.
plaintiffs in state courts continue to pursue claims beyond the 5 This was the first class action to proceed to a certification
designated cancers. On 6 December 2022, the court presiding hearing and the class action sought to certify a national class.
over the federal MDL proceeding granted Defendants’ Daubert In May 2023, the Court dismissed the proposed class action
motions, finding that Plaintiffs’ experts’ causation opinions against the manufacturer defendants. An appeal from that
regarding whether Zantac can cause the five cancers at issue in decision was abandoned. The Ontario action will also be
the MDL (liver, bladder, pancreatic, esophageal, and stomach) discontinued. There are also approximately 120 individual
are unreliable and thus inadmissible. Without expert causation actions that have been filed in Canada.
opinions, the MDL Court granted summary judgment to GSK
Given the complex ownership and marketing of Zantac
and the other brand defendants. The MDL Court found that
prescription and over-the-counter (OTC) medicine over many
“there is no scientist outside this litigation who concluded
years, numerous claims involve several defendants. As a result,
ranitidine causes cancer, and the plaintiffs’ scientists within this
some defendants have served one another, including the
litigation systemically utilized unreliable methodologies,” and
Group, with notice of potential indemnification claims about
failed to use “consistent, objective, science-based standards for
possible liabilities connected particularly with Zantac OTC.
the even-handed evaluation of data.” This ruling effectively
Given the current stage of the proceedings, the Group cannot
dismissed approximately 2,200 filed cases in the MDL and is
meaningfully assess what liability, if any, it may have, nor can it
binding on all of the claims in the Census Registry.
meaningfully assess the liability of other parties under relevant
Approximately 13,000 Plaintiffs (which includes plaintiffs with
indemnification provisions.
filed cases and registry claimants) have appealed the MDL
decision to the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals. Plaintiffs’
briefs are due on 10 April 2024. Following the Court’s Daubert
decision, it entered a final order dismissing the medical
monitoring and consumer class actions based on the reasoning
in its Daubert holding. Plaintiffs have filed a notice of appeal in
the medical monitoring and consumer class action cases.
264Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
47. Legal proceedings continued
In addition, on 20 March 2020, the Department of Justice The Korea Fair Trade Commission (KFTC) also commenced
(DOJ) sent the Group notice of a civil investigation it had proceedings regarding the same matter. KFTC hearings took
opened into allegations of False Claims Act violations by the place in July 2023 and GSK Korea was found in violation of
Group related to Zantac. On 18 June 2020, the DOJ served a applicable fair trade law. The KFTC imposed a fine of
Civil Investigative Demand (CID) on the Group, formalising its KRW351 million which is approximately £212,000.
request for documents. The Group continues to cooperate with
US electronic health records subpoena
the DOJ on the CID. On the same day, the New Mexico
Attorney General filed a lawsuit against multiple defendants, On 19 March 2023, the Group received a subpoena from the
including the Group, alleging violations of state consumer United States Attorney’s Office for the Western District of
protection and false advertising statutes, among other claims. Virginia, which is working with the United States Department of
Justice Civil Division, seeking documents relating to the Group’s
On 11 November 2020, the Mayor & City of Baltimore filed an
electronic health record programmes. The Group is cooperating
action against the Group alleging that Zantac increased the risk
with this enquiry.
of cancer and/or caused cancer in Baltimore patients, and that
the Group failed to warn of or concealed those risks. Fact and Senate HELP Enquiry
expert discovery is ongoing. The court has set a trial date of 2 The Group received a letter dated 8 January 2024 from
June 2025. majority members of the US Senate Health, Education, Labor
and Pensions (“HELP”) Committee initiating an investigation
Zofran
into the pricing of inhalers for the treatment of asthma and
The Group was a defendant in over 400 product liability cases
COPD. The letter is similar to letters received by a number of
involving Zofran pending in a Multidistrict Litigation (MDL)
other pharmaceutical companies and requests information on
proceeding in the District of Massachusetts. The cases alleged
pricing, research in the treatment of respiratory diseases,
that children suffered birth defects due to their mothers’
patenting and business practices. The Group is cooperating
ingestion of Zofran and/or generic ondansetron for pregnancy-
with the enquiry.
related nausea and vomiting. Plaintiffs asserted that the Group
sold Zofran knowing it was unsafe for pregnant women, failed Orange Book Challenge
to warn of the risks and illegally marketed Zofran “off-label” for In November 2023, the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC)
use by pregnant women. wrote to the Group and identified five patents that it is
challenging through an FDA Orange Book listing dispute
On 1 June 2021, the MDL Court granted the Group’s motion for
process, reserving the right to take further action. A number of
summary judgment on federal pre-emption grounds. The Court
other companies were also contacted, with the FTC citing a
found that the FDA was fully informed of all relevant safety
total of 62 patents. As to the five patent listings challenged by
information regarding Zofran and had repeatedly rejected any
the FTC, the Group has asked the FDA to remove four patents
attempt to add a birth defect warning to the label. At that time,
from the Orange Book with respect to certain products. It is the
the Court granted judgment for the Group in all cases pending
Group's position that these patents were properly listed at the
in the MDL (approximately 431 cases) and closed the MDL
time of the listing decision. No generic competition was
proceeding. Plaintiffs appealed this decision and, on 9 January
impacted by the previous listings and all de-listed patents
2023, the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit
remain valid and enforceable. Subsequent to the FTC’s
affirmed the district court’s decision in favour of the Group.
challenge, the Group received letters from US Senator Elizabeth
There remains one state court case and four proposed class Warren and US Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal, US Senator
actions in Canada, which are not currently active. Amy Klobuchar, and US Senator Tammy Baldwin, reiterating
the FTC position and requesting further information about the
Sales and marketing and regulation
Group’s Orange Book-listed patents and the Group’s response
The Group’s marketing and promotion of its Pharmaceutical to the FDA challenge process. The Group is cooperating with
and Vaccine products are the subject of certain governmental these enquiries.
investigations and private lawsuits brought by litigants under
Anti-trust/competition
various theories of law.
Certain governmental actions and private lawsuits have been
GSK Korea – Proceedings under Fair Trade Laws brought against the Group alleging violation of competition or
In August 2020, GSK Korea was indicted under Korea’s anti-trust laws.
Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade laws in relation to
Lamictal
government tenders of HPV (Cervarix) and PCV (Synflorix)
vaccines in 2018 and 2019. The prosecutor alleged that GSK Purported classes of direct purchasers filed suit in the US
Korea, through the actions of at least one of its employees, District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging that the
interfered with the tender process under the National Group and Teva Pharmaceuticals unlawfully conspired to delay
Immunisation Programme by using “straw bidders.” generic competition for Lamictal, resulting in overcharges to the
purchasers, by entering into an allegedly anti-competitive
A former GSK Korea employee was also charged in his reverse payment settlement to resolve patent infringement
individual capacity by the prosecutor in relation to the same litigation. A separate count accuses the Group of monopolising
matter. Further, a number of wholesalers are co-defendants in the market.
the proceedings. On 1 February 2023, the court rendered a
guilty verdict in respect of all defendants. GSK Korea was fined On 13 December 2018, the trial judge granted plaintiffs’ class
KRW70 million which is approximately £45,000. Appeal certification motion, certifying a class of direct purchasers. The
proceedings are ongoing. Group filed a Rule 23(f) motion in the Court of Appeals for the
Third Circuit, challenging the class certification decision. On 22
April 2020, the Court of Appeals vacated the lower court’s grant
of class certification and remanded the issue back to the lower
court for further analysis.
265Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the financial statements continued
47. Legal proceedings continued
On 9 October 2020, the district court heard argument on Zejula Royalty Dispute
plaintiffs’ renewed motion for class certification after remand.
In October 2012, Tesaro, Inc. (now a wholly owned subsidiary of
On 9 April 2021, the district court denied Plaintiffs’ motion for
GSK) entered into two worldwide patent license agreements
class certification of the putative direct purchaser class, leaving
with AstraZeneca UK Limited related to niraparib (later
a potential class of brand-only purchasers. Plaintiffs moved to
approved as Zejula).
supplement their expert report and seek additional discovery to
support the addition of certain generic purchasers. On 21 In May 2021, AstraZeneca filed a lawsuit against Tesaro in the
January 2022, the district court denied Plaintiffs’ motion to High Court, England and Wales alleging that Tesaro failed to
supplement their expert report and seek additional discovery pay some of the royalties due under the license agreements.
and held that the issue of generic purchasers had already been Tesaro has counterclaimed based on a calculated
decided and denied in the court’s ruling on decertification. The overpayment. Trial was held the week of 6 March 2023 and
parties conducted briefing on class certification as to the judgment was entered against the Group on 5 April 2023, ruling
remaining brand-only purchasers, with plaintiffs also seeking to that all current uses of Zejula generate royalty-bearing sales
add a smaller category of purchasers. under the wording of the two license agreements. On 12 June
2023, the Court of Appeal of England and Wales granted the
On 1 February 2023, the district court denied Plaintiffs’ renewed
Group’s request for permission to appeal the 5 April 2023
class certification motion. A series of follow-on complaints have
judgment. The appeal was heard on 17 January 2024 and on 9
been filed in the US District Court for the Eastern District of
February 2024 the Court of Appeal ruled in the Group’s favour,
Pennsylvania by groups of alleged purchasers. The cases have
overturning the trial court’s judgment and determining that only
been consolidated with the previously pending case in the
Zejula sales for uses falling within the licensed patents could be
District of New Jersey. Discovery is ongoing.
deemed royalty-bearing. The appropriate quantum of royalties
Commercial and corporate in accord with the Court of Appeal’s judgment may be the
subject of further proceedings.
The Group is involved in certain contractual and/or commercial
disputes.
48. Post balance sheet events
Acquisition of Aiolos Bio, Inc
On 9 January 2024, GSK announced it had entered into an agreement to acquire Aiolos Bio, Inc, (Aiolos) a clinical stage
biopharmaceutical company focused on addressing the unmet treatment needs of patients with certain respiratory and
inflammatory conditions, for an upfront payment of US$1 billion and up to US$400 million in certain success-based regulatory
milestone payments. In addition, GSK will also be responsible for success-based milestone payments as well as tiered royalties owed
to Jiangsu Hengrui Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. (Hengrui). The transaction was subject to customary conditions, including applicable
regulatory agency clearances under the Hart- Scott-Rodino Act in the US, and subsequently closed on 14 February 2024. Given the
timing of the closure of the transaction, GSK expects to disclose the provisional accounting for the acquisition in the Q1 2024 Results
Announcement.
Disposal of shares in Haleon plc
On 17 January 2024, GSK completed the sale of 300 million shares in Haleon plc equivalent to 3.2% of Haleon plc’s issued share
capital at a price of 326 pence per share, raising gross proceeds of £978 million. Following the sale, GSK holds approximately 385
million ordinary shares in Haleon plc, representing over 4.0% of the issued share capital of Haleon plc.
266Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) as at 31 December 2023
2023 2023 2022 2022
Notes £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets – investments E 22,631 22,881
Current assets:
Trade and other receivables F 22,657 17,748
Cash at bank 17 20
Total current assets 22,674 17,768
Trade and other payables G (740) (545)
Total current liabilities (740) (545)
Net current assets 21,934 17,223
Total assets less current liabilities 44,565 40,104
Provisions for liabilities H (20) (13)
Other non-current liabilities I (388) (645)
Net assets 44,157 39,446
Capital and reserves
Share capital J 1,348 1,347
Share premium account J 3,451 3,440
Other reserves K 1,420 1,420
Retained earnings:
At 1 January 33,239 50,596
Profit/(loss) for the year 6,643 710
Ordinary shares issued under share option/award schemes 20 –
Treasury shares transferred to the ESOP Trust 283 1,089
Dividends in specie – (15,689)
Dividends paid to shareholders (2,247) (3,467)
K 37,938 33,239
Equity shareholders’ funds 44,157 39,446
The financial statements on pages 267 to 271 were approved by the Board on 27 February 2024 and signed on its behalf by
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chair GSK plc
Registered number: 3888792
Company statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2023
Share
Share premium Other Retained Total
capital account reserves earnings equity
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2022 1,347 3,301 1,420 50,596 56,664
Profit and Total comprehensive income attributable to shareholders – – – 710 710
Treasury shares transferred to the ESOP Trust – – – 1,089 1,089
Dividends to shareholders (Note D) – – – (3,467) (3,467)
Dividends in specie (Note D) – – – (15,689) (15,689)
Shares issued under employee share schemes – 139 – – 139
At 31 December 2022 1,347 3,440 1,420 33,239 39,446
Profit and Total comprehensive income attributable to shareholders – – – 6,643 6,643
Treasury shares transferred to the ESOP Trust – – – 283 283
Dividends to shareholders (Note D) – – – (2,247) (2,247)
Shares issued under employee share schemes 1 11 – 20 32
At 31 December 2023 1,348 3,451 1,420 37,938 44,157
267Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’)
A) Presentation of the financial statements Key accounting judgements and estimates
Description of business No key accounting judgements or estimates were required in
the current year.
GSK Plc is the parent company of GSK, a major global
biopharma group which prevents and treats disease with B) Accounting policies
vaccines, specialty and general medicines. GSK focuses on the
Foreign currency transactions
science of the immune system and the use of new platform and
data technologies, investing in four core therapeutic areas: Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange
infectious diseases, HIV, respiratory/immunology and oncology. rate ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign currency assets
and liabilities are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the
Preparation of financial statements
balance sheet date.
The financial statements, which are prepared using the
Dividends paid and received
historical cost convention (as modified to include the
revaluation of certain financial instruments) and on a going Dividends paid and received are included in the financial
concern basis, are prepared in accordance with Financial statements in the period in which the related dividends are
Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ and actually paid or received.
with UK accounting presentation and the Companies Act 2006
Expenditure
as at 31 December 2023, with comparative figures as at
31 December 2022 Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services
received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability
income statement of the company is not presented in this in respect of a past event and where the amount of the
Annual Report. obligation can be reliably estimated.
The company is included in the Group financial statements of Investments in subsidiary companies
GSK plc, which are publicly available.
Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any
The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have provision for impairment and also includes a capital
been applied in the preparation of these financial statements, contribution in relation to movements in contingent
in accordance with FRS 101: consideration.
–Paragraphs 45(b) and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, ‘Share-based Impairment of investments
payment’ The carrying value of investments are reviewed for impairment
–IFRS 7, ‘Financial Instruments – Disclosures’ when there is an indication that the investment might be
–Paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’ impaired. The assessment method used is to compare the
–Paragraph 38 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’ carrying value of each investment against its share of the net
comparative information requirements in respect of assets value of the investment or against its share of the
paragraph 79(a) (iv) of IAS 1 valuation of the subsidiary based on expected discounted cash
–Paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38(A), 38 (B to D), 40 (A to D), 111 flows. Any impairment charge is recognised in the income
and 134 to 136 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’ statement in the year concerned.
–IAS 7, ‘Statement of cash flows’
Assets held for sale/distribution
–Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8, ‘Accounting policies, changes
Non-current assets are held for disposal/demerger only if
in accounting estimates and errors’
available for immediate disposal/demerger in their present
–Paragraph 17 of IAS 24, ‘Related party disclosures’ and the
condition, a disposal/demerger is highly probable and
further requirement in IAS 24 to disclose related party
expected to be completed within one year from the date of
transactions entered into between two or more members of a
classification. Such assets are measured at the lower of
Group.
carrying value and fair value less the cost of disposal.
Accounting convention and standards
Trade and other receivables
The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical cost
Trade and other receivables are carried at amortised cost less
convention and complies with applicable UK accounting
allowance of expected credit losses. Expected credit losses are
standards.
calculated in accordance with the approach permitted by IFRS
Accounting principles and policies 9. The majority of the balance within trade and other
receivables is amounts owed by Group undertakings. The
The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with
Company applies a general approach to calculate the
generally accepted accounting principles requires
expected credit losses. If a receivable is determined to be non-
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
collectable it is written off, firstly against any expected credit
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
loss allowance available and then to the statement of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the balance
comprehensive income. Subsequent recoveries of amounts
sheet. Actual amounts could differ from those estimates.
previously provided for are credited to the statement of
The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the comprehensive income. Long term receivables are discounted
company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and where the effect is material.
described in Note B. These policies have been consistently
Share-based payments
applied, unless otherwise stated.
The company issues shares to employees on behalf of its
subsidiary companies for cash consideration.
268Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’)
Treasury shares Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are
expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary
The purchase price paid for the treasury shares is included
differences are expected to be realised or settled. Deferred tax
within retained earnings. Treasury shares are transferred to the
liabilities and assets are not discounted.
ESOP trust at the fair market price at the date of the transfer
for cash consideration. If the proceeds are equal to or less than Financial guarantees
the purchase price paid by the company for the shares, the
Liabilities relating to guarantees issued by the company on
proceeds are treated as a realised loss. If the proceeds exceed
behalf of its subsidiaries are initially recognised at fair value
the purchase price, the excess over the purchase price is
and subsequently measured at the higher of:
transferred to the share premium account. The purchase price
paid by the company for the shares is determined by the use of 1. the Expected Credit Loss (ECL) measured used the general
a weighted average price method. approach; and
Taxation 2.the amount initially recorded less, when appropriate,
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid accumulated amortisation.
applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively
C) Operating profit
enacted by the balance sheet date.
A fee of £14,752 (2022: £12,600) relating to the audit of the
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on
company has been charged in operating profit.
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial
statements. Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the
extent that they are considered recoverable against future
taxable profits.
D) Dividends
In 2023 the Directors declared four interim dividends resulting in a dividend for the year of 58.00 pence. For further details, see Note
16 'Dividends' to the Group financial statements.
The demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business was implemented by GSK declaring an interim dividend in July 2022 as follows.
2022
£m
Dividend in specie of Haleon plc shares distributed to external shareholders 15,526
Dividend in specie of Haleon plc shares distributed to the ESOP Trusts 163
15,689
E) Fixed assets – investments
2023 2022
£m £m
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited 654 637
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited 18 18
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited 17,888 17,888
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited 33 33
Shares in GSK LP Limited 2,476 2,493
21,069 21,069
Capital contribution relating to share-based payments 1,139 1,139
Contribution relating to contingent consideration 423 673
22,631 22,881
269Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’)
F) Trade and other receivables
2023 2022
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Other debtors 1 2
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 22,367 17,422
22,368 17,424
Amounts due after more than one year:
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 289 324
22,657 17,748
The amounts owed by Group undertakings due within one year primarily include a call account balance with GSK Finance plc which
is unsecured, repayable on demand with interest received at SONIA rate less 0.05% per annum (2022: SONIA rate less 0.05%).
The directors consider that the carrying amount of amounts owed by Group undertakings approximates to their fair values. No
provision for expected credit loss has been recognised as the counter-party has access to sufficient funds and assets to fulfil its
future obligations. Amounts owed by Group undertakings are not past due and no increased credit risk experienced since initial
recognition.
The movement in the Amounts owed by Group undertakings in the period, as reflected within Notes F and G, primarily reflects the
receipt of dividend income from subsidiaries and utilisation of the company’s current account to fund the payment of interim
dividends.
G) Trade and other payables
2023 2022
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Other creditors 349 396
Contingent consideration payable 35 28
Corporation tax 201 18
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 155 103
740 545
The company has guaranteed debt issued by certain subsidiary companies and for which it receives an annual fee from one of the
subsidiaries. In aggregate, the company has outstanding guarantees over £16.5 billion of debt instruments (2022: £19.5 billion). The
financial guarantee contract liability of £327 million (2022: £371 million) is included within other creditors. The amounts due from the
subsidiary company in relation to these guarantee fees will be recovered over the life of the bonds and are disclosed within ‘Trade
and other receivables’ (see Note F).
H) Provisions for liabilities
2023 2022
£m £m
At 1 January 13 12
Charge for the year 28 43
Utilised (21) (42)
At 31 December 20 13
The provisions relate to a number of legal and other disputes in which the company is currently involved.
I) Other non-current liabilities
2023 2022
£m £m
Contingent consideration payable 388 645
The contingent consideration relates to the amount payable for the acquisition in 2015 of the Novartis Vaccines portfolio. The
current year liability is included within ‘Trade and other payables’. For further details, see Note 33 'Contingent consideration
liabilities' to the Group financial statements.
270Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’)
J) Share capital and share premium account
Share
premium
Ordinary shares account
Number £m £m
Share capital issued and fully paid
1 January 2022 5,387,015,059 1,347 3,301
Impact of share consolidation (1,077,403,011) – –
Issued under employee share schemes 1,731,293 – 25
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trust – – 114
At 31 December 2022 4,311,343,341 1,347 3,440
Issued under employee share schemes 802,642 1 9
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trust – – 2
At 31 December 2023 4,312,145,983 1,348 3,451
At 31 December 2023, of the issued share capital, 58,817,197 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts (out of which 58,493,518 were held
for future exercise of share options and share awards and 323,679 shares were held for the Executive Supplemental Savings Plan),
197,068,169 shares were held as Treasury shares and 4,056,260,617 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid and
there are no shares authorised but not in issue. The nominal, carrying and market values of the shares held in the ESOP Trusts are
disclosed in Note 45, ‘Employee share schemes’.
K) Retained earnings and other reserves
The profit of GSK plc for the year was £6,643 million (2022: £710 million). After dividends paid of £2,247 million (2022: £19,156 million
which included the Consumer Healthcare business demerger dividend of £15,689 million), and the effect of £283 million Treasury
shares transferred to a subsidiary company (2022: £1,089 million) retained earnings at 31 December 2023 stood at £37,938 million
(2022: £33,239 million), of which £12,938 million is not considered by the Company to be available for distribution (2022:
£8,140 million). Dividends to shareholders are paid out of the reserves of the Company considered to be available of distribution,
which at 31 December 2023 amounted to £25,000 million (2022: £25,099 million).
Other reserves includes a capital redemption reserve and a reserve reflecting historical contributions of shares in the company
which were issued to satisfy share option awards granted to employees of subsidiary companies.
L) Group companies
See pages 306 to 314 for a complete list of subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and other significant shareholdings, which forms
part of these financial statements.
271GSK Annual Report 2023
Investor
Information
In this section
Commercial Operations turnover 273
Three year record 275
Product development pipeline 277
Products, competition and intellectual property 281
Principal risks and uncertainties 284
Share capital and control 295
Dividends 297
Financial calendar 2023 298
Annual General Meeting 2023 298
Tax information for shareholders 299
Shareholder services and contacts 301
US law and regulation 303
Group companies 306
Glossary of terms 315
272Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Financial record
Commercial Operations turnover by therapeutic area 2023
Total US Europe International
2023 Growth 2023 Growth 2023 Growth 2023 Growth
£m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Shingles 3,446 16 17 1,880 (4) (4) 908 32 30 658 >100 >100
Shingrix 3,446 16 17 1,880 (4) (4) 908 32 30 658 >100 >100
Meningitis 1,260 13 14 610 6 7 433 20 17 217 20 29
Bexsero 849 13 14 311 (7) (6) 417 24 21 121 46 61
Menveo 380 10 12 299 25 25 12 (40) (45) 69 (19) (13)
Other 31 72 67 – – – 4 (20) (20) 27 >100 >100
RSV 1,238 – – 1,194 – – 4 – – 40 – –
Arexvy 1,238 – – 1,194 – – 4 – – 40 – –
Influenza 504 (29) (29) 371 (32) (32) 39 (32) (33) 94 (13) (10)
Fluarix/FluLaval 504 (29) (29) 371 (32) (32) 39 (32) (33) 94 (13) (10)
Established Vaccines 3,266 6 7 1,254 8 9 742 3 2 1,270 5 7
Infanrix, Pediarix 554 (7) (6) 291 (11) (11) 121 (8) (8) 142 4 10
Boostrix 614 3 4 394 9 10 122 (12) (13) 98 2 4
Hepatitis 611 7 8 336 (2) (1) 177 25 23 98 14 17
Rotarix 614 17 18 192 >100 >100 118 (3) (5) 304 (2) 2
Synflorix 275 (10) (10) – – – 36 6 3 239 (12) (12)
Priorix, Priorix Tetra, Varilrix 265 41 41 16 60 60 129 33 30 120 48 53
Cervarix 120 3 5 – – – 33 50 45 87 (8) (4)
Others 213 13 11 25 14 9 6 (82) (76) 182 37 34
Vaccines ex COVID 9,714 23 24 5,309 25 26 2,126 16 15 2,279 26 31
Pandemic vaccines 150 >100 >100 – – – 130 >100 >100 20 >100 >100
Pandemic adjuvant 150 >100 >100 – – – 130 >100 >100 20 >100 >100
Vaccines 9,864 24 25 5,309 25 26 2,256 20 18 2,299 27 31
HIV 6,444 12 13 4,283 14 14 1,423 9 7 738 8 16
Dolutegravir products 5,408 4 5 3,418 3 4 1,290 4 3 700 9 17
Tivicay 1,386 – 2 801 (3) (2) 267 (2) (4) 318 12 21
Triumeq 1,542 (14) (14) 1,074 (12) (11) 280 (22) (24) 188 (15) (11)
Juluca 661 4 4 511 3 4 136 7 6 14 (7) (7)
Dovato 1,819 32 33 1,032 33 33 607 27 25 180 50 59
Rukobia 117 43 44 110 39 41 7 >100 >100 – – –
Cabenuva 708 >100 >100 587 100 >100 103 >100 >100 18 >100 >100
Apretude 149 >100 >100 149 >100 >100 – – – – – –
Others 62 (35) (33) 19 (39) (42) 23 (18) (25) 20 (44) (31)
Respiratory/Immunology and Other 3,025 16 18 2,100 15 15 468 28 26 457 11 21
Nucala 1,655 16 18 978 11 11 383 28 26 294 21 33
Benlysta 1,349 18 19 1,121 18 19 99 19 18 129 13 25
Other 21 (48) (42) 1 – – (14) 18 12 34 (40) (33)
Oncology 731 21 23 396 27 27 289 14 13 46 28 61
Zejula 523 13 15 257 9 10 222 14 12 44 29 65
Blenrep 36 (69) (69) (2) >(100) >(100) 38 (27) (27) – – –
Jemperli 141 >100 >100 108 >100 >100 31 >100 >100 2 >100 >100
Ojjaara 33 – – 33 – – – – – – – –
Other (2) >(100) >(100) – – – (2) (100) – – >(100) (100)
Specialty Medicines ex COVID 10,200 14 15 6,779 15 15 2,180 13 11 1,241 10 19
Pandemic 44 (98) (98) 10 (99) (99) 3 (99) (99) 31 (97) (97)
Xevudy 44 (98) (98) 10 (99) (99) 3 (99) (99) 31 (97) (97)
Specialty Medicines 10,244 (9) (8) 6,789 1 1 2,183 (8) (10) 1,272 (41) (36)
Respiratory 6,825 4 6 3,442 7 8 1,402 1 – 1,981 1 9
Arnuity Ellipta 36 (36) (34) 29 (40) (40) – – – 7 (13) –
Anoro Ellipta 557 15 16 269 15 16 193 17 15 95 12 20
Avamys/Veramyst 299 (7) (4) – – – 57 (12) (14) 242 (5) (2)
Flixotide/Flovent 451 (17) (16) 283 (20) (20) 70 (5) (5) 98 (17) (11)
Incruse Ellipta 162 (17) (17) 78 (25) (24) 59 (8) (9) 25 (11) (7)
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 1,103 (4) (2) 436 (12) (12) 366 5 4 301 – 8
Seretide/Advair 1,139 (2) 1 341 11 11 256 (11) (12) 542 (4) 3
Trelegy Ellipta 2,202 27 29 1,606 28 29 275 17 16 321 34 44
Ventolin 749 (3) – 400 (3) (2) 100 (14) (16) 249 2 11
Other Respiratory 127 (11) (5) – (100) (100) 26 (13) (17) 101 (10) (1)
Other General Medicines 3,395 (5) 2 280 (23) (22) 723 4 2 2,392 (5) 6
Dermatology 363 (3) 4 – – – 107 – (1) 256 (5) 6
Augmentin 628 9 17 – – – 186 23 21 442 4 16
Avodart 345 5 7 – – – 109 2 (1) 236 6 10
Lamictal 435 (15) (13) 194 (27) (27) 111 2 1 130 (5) 4
Other 1,624 (9) 1 86 (13) (11) 210 (5) (7) 1,328 (9) 3
General Medicines 10,220 1 5 3,722 4 5 2,125 2 1 4,373 (2) 7
Total Commercial Operations 30,328 3 5 15,820 9 9 6,564 3 2 7,944 (6) 1
273Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Financial record continued
Commercial Operations turnover by therapeutic area 2022
Total US Europe International
2022 Growth 2022 Growth 2022 Growth 2022 Growth
£m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Shingles 2,958 72 60 1,964 46 32 688 >100 >100 306 >100 >100
Shingrix 2,958 72 60 1,964 46 32 688 >100 >100 306 >100 >100
Meningitis 1,116 16 11 573 26 14 362 2 3 181 18 20
Bexsero 753 16 12 333 32 19 337 3 4 83 20 23
Menveo 345 27 18 240 20 8 20 (5) (10) 85 67 71
Other 18 (54) (54) – – – 5 – – 13 (62) (62)
Influenza 714 5 (4) 549 20 9 57 (44) (44) 108 (11) (16)
Fluarix/Flulaval 714 5 (4) 549 20 9 57 (44) (44) 108 (11) (16)
Established vaccines 3,085 4 – 1,157 18 7 720 3 4 1,208 (7) 8
Infanrix, Pediarix 594 9 3 327 8 (3) 131 13 13 136 10 6
Boostrix 594 14 7 360 33 20 138 (1) (1) 96 (14) (15)
Hepatitis 571 24 16 343 28 15 142 30 31 86 5 (1)
Rotarix 527 (3) (3) 95 (14) (23) 122 3 5 310 (1) 1
Synflorix 305 (15) (15) – – – 34 (24) (22) 271 (13) (14)
Priorix, Priorix Tetra, Varilrix 188 (28) (29) 10 – – 97 (22) (22) 81 (40) (43)
Cervarix 117 (15) (20) – – – 22 (12) (8) 95 (16) (22)
Others 189 26 26 22 (8) (17) 34 55 45 133 28 32
Vaccines ex COVID 7,873 24 17 4,243 31 18 1,827 27 28 1,803 8 6
Pandemic vaccines 64 (86) (86) – (100) (100) 57 – – 7 (97) (97)
Pandemic adjuvant 64 (86) (86) – (100) (100) 57 – – 7 (97) (97)
Vaccines 7,937 17 11 4,243 22 10 1,884 31 32 1,810 (3) (5)
HIV 5,749 20 12 3,756 30 17 1,310 10 10 683 – (3)
Dolutegravir products 5,191 14 6 3,311 19 8 1,239 8 8 641 – (3)
Tivicay 1,381 – (7) 823 8 (3) 273 (5) (4) 285 (14) (19)
Triumeq 1,799 (4) (11) 1,217 2 (8) 361 (20) (19) 221 (8) (9)
Juluca 636 23 14 494 26 13 127 14 15 15 15 8
Dovato 1,375 75 65 777 82 64 478 58 59 120 >100 >100
Rukobia 82 82 64 79 84 65 3 50 50 – – –
Cabenuva 340 >100 >100 294 >100 >100 40 >100 >100 6 >100 >100
Apretude 41 – – 41 – – – – – – – –
Others 95 (25) (29) 31 (37) (45) 28 (22) (22) 36 (14) (17)
Respiratory/Immunology and Other 2,609 29 20 1,830 29 16 366 13 13 413 45 47
Nucala 1,423 25 18 881 28 15 300 17 17 242 24 28
Benlysta 1,146 31 20 949 31 18 83 22 22 114 44 43
Other 40 >100 >100 – – – (17) – – 57 >100 >100
Oncology 602 23 17 313 14 3 253 30 31 36 80 75
Zejula 463 17 12 235 11 – 194 19 20 34 70 75
Blenrep 118 33 25 66 8 (3) 52 86 86 – – –
Jemperli 21 >100 >100 13 >100 >100 8 >100 >100 – – –
Other – – – (1) – – (1) – – 2 – –
Specialty Medicines ex COVID 8,960 23 15 5,899 29 16 1,929 13 13 1,132 14 13
Pandemic 2,309 >100 >100 828 38 24 456 >100 >100 1,025 >100 >100
Xevudy 2,309 >100 >100 828 38 24 456 >100 >100 1,025 >100 >100
Specialty Medicines 11,269 37 29 6,727 30 17 2,385 34 35 2,157 69 70
Respiratory 6,548 8 3 3,209 10 (1) 1,384 3 3 1,955 10 9
Arnuity Ellipta 56 19 9 48 20 10 – – – 8 14 –
Anoro Ellipta 483 (4) (9) 233 (16) (24) 165 11 11 85 10 10
Avamys/Veramyst 321 8 6 – – – 65 – 2 256 10 8
Flixotide/Flovent 545 23 15 353 28 16 74 7 7 118 18 16
Incruse Ellipta 196 (4) (10) 104 (5) (14) 64 (9) (7) 28 8 –
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 1,145 2 (2) 498 2 (8) 347 4 4 300 – 2
Seretide/Advair 1,159 (15) (17) 308 (37) (43) 287 (11) (11) 564 3 1
Trelegy Ellipta 1,729 42 32 1,253 47 32 236 18 19 240 47 48
Ventolin 771 7 2 411 5 (5) 116 7 8 244 11 10
Other Respiratory 143 4 6 1 – – 30 11 7 112 2 5
Other General Medicines 3,570 (1) (2) 363 10 (1) 695 (14) (13) 2,512 1 2
Dermatology 376 (6) (5) (1) – – 107 (18) (18) 270 – 1
Augmentin 576 35 38 – – – 151 22 23 425 41 44
Avodart 330 (1) (3) – – – 107 (9) (8) 223 5 –
Lamictal 511 7 1 265 14 3 109 (3) (3) 137 2 –
Other 1,777 (10) (10) 99 – (9) 221 (31) (31) 1,457 (7) (6)
General Medicines 10,118 5 1 3,572 10 (1) 2,079 (3) (3) 4,467 5 5
Total Commercial Operations 29,324 19 13 14,542 22 10 6,348 18 19 8,434 14 14
274Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Financial record continued
Three-year selected financial data
A record of financial performance is provided, analysed in accordance with current reporting practice. The information included in
the selected financial data (except for number of employees and adjusted results) is prepared in accordance with International
Accounting Standards in conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and also with IFRS as issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board.
2023 2022 2021
Group turnover by geographic region £m £m £m
US 15,820 14,542 11,914
Europe 6,564 6,348 5,370
International 7,944 8,434 7,412
30,328 29,324 24,696
2023 2022 2021
Group turnover by product group £m £m £m
Vaccines 9,864 7,937 6,778
Specialty Medicines 10,244 11,269 8,251
General Medicines 10,220 10,118 9,667
30,328 29,324 24,696
2023 2022 2021
Vaccines turnover £m £m £m
Shingles 3,446 2,958 1,721
Meningitis 1,260 1,116 961
RSV 1,238 – –
Influenza 504 714 679
Established Vaccines 3,266 3,085 2,970
Pandemic Vaccines 150 64 447
9,864 7,937 6,778
2023 2022 2021
Specialty Medicines turnover £m £m £m
HIV 6,444 5,749 4,777
Respiratory/Immunology and other 3,025 2,609 2,027
Oncology 731 602 489
Pandemic 44 2,309 958
10,244 11,269 8,251
2023 2022 2021
General Medicines £m £m £m
Respiratory 6,825 6,548 6,048
Other General Medicines 3,395 3,570 3,619
10,220 10,118 9,667
2023 2022 2021
Financial results – Total £m £m £m
Turnover 30,328 29,324 24,696
Profit after taxation from continuing operations 5,308 4,921 3,516
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations and other gains/(losses) from the demerger – 3,049 1,580
Remeasurement of discontinued operations distributed to shareholders on demerger – 7,651 –
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations – 10,700 1,580
Profit after taxation for the year 5,308 15,621 5,096
pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 121.6p 110.8p 82.9p
Basic earnings per share from discontinued operations – 260.6p 26.7p
Total basic earnings per share 121.6p 371.4p 109.6p
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 119.9p 109.2p 81.8p
Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations – 257.0p 26.4p
Total diluted earnings per share 119.9p 366.2p 108.2p
275Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Financial record continued
Three-year selected financial data continued
2023 2022 2021
Financial results – Adjusted £m £m £m
Turnover 30,328 29,324 24,696
Continuing operating profit 8,786 8,151 6,493
Continuing profit before taxation 8,112 7,358 5,774
Continuing profit after taxation 6,855 6,220 4,856
The reconciliation between Total and Adjusted operating profit over the last three years can be summarised as follows:
2023 2022 2021
£m £m £m
Total continuing operating profit 6,745 6,433 4,357
Intangible asset amortisation 719 739 761
Intangible asset impairment 398 296 347
Major restructuring 382 321 424
Transaction-related items 572 1,750 1,143
Divestments, significant legal and other items (30) (1,388) (539)
Adjusted continuing operating profit 8,786 8,151 6,493
The reconciliation between total and Adjusted earnings per share over the last three years can be summarised as follows:
pence pence pence
Total continuing earnings per share 121.6p 110.8p 82.9p
Intangible asset amortisation 13.9p 14.6p 15.2p
Intangible asset impairment 7.5p 5.8p 6.6p
Major restructuring 7.4p 5.9p 8.7p
Transaction-related items 6.9p 34.1p 18.1p
Divestments, significant legal and other items (2.2) p (31.5)p (21.2)p
Adjusted continuing earnings per share 155.1p 139.7p 110.3p
% % %
Return on capital employed 53.0 n/m 25.8
For 2021 and 2023 return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before taxation as a percentage of average net assets
over the year and is not restated. Return on capital employed is not calculated for 2022 as it is not meaningful (n/m) as the average
net assets over the year included Consumer Healthcare which was demerged on 18 July 2022.
Balance sheet 2023 2022 2021
Non-current assets 40,361 39,377 60,429
Current assets 18,644 20,769 18,674
Total assets 59,005 60,146 79,103
Current liabilities (21,068) (22,810) (23,670)
Non-current liabilities (25,142) (27,240) (34,091)
Total liabilities (46,210) (50,050) (57,761)
Net assets 12,795 10,096 21,342
Shareholders’ equity 13,347 10,598 15,055
Non-controlling interests (552) (502) 6,287
Total equity 12,795 10,096 21,342
Number of employees 2023 2022 2021
US 12,205 11,946 14,289
Europe 32,675 31,800 38,809
International 25,332 25,654 36,998
70,212 69,400 90,096
Manufacturing 23,159 23,292 32,141
Selling 26,193 26,310 34,846
Administration 7,888 7,605 11,014
Research and development 12,972 12,193 12,095
70,212 69,400 90,096
The geographic distribution of employees in the table above is based on the location of GSK’s subsidiary companies. The number of
employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who are
employed and managed by GSK on a contract basis.
276Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Pipelines, products and competition
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline
Key † In-license or other alliance relationship with third party A Approved
^ ViiV Healthcare, a global specialist HIV company with GSK, S Submitted
Pfizer, Inc. and Shionogi Limited as shareholders, is responsible Phase I Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted in volunteers
for developing and delivering HIV medicines
Phase II Determination of dose and initial evaluation of efficacy, conducted in a
BLA Biological Licence Application small number of patients
MAA Marketing Authorisation Application (Europe) Large comparative study (compound versus placebo and/or established
Phase III
NDA New Drug Application (US) treatment) in patients to establish clinical benefit and safety
MAA and NDA/BLA regulatory review milestones shown in the table below are those that have been achieved. Future filing dates
are not included in this list.
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Mechanism of Action/Vaccine Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Oncology
Ojjaara/Omjjara JAK1, JAK2 and ACVR1 inhibitor Myelofibrosis Approved A:Jan24 A:Sep23
(momelotinib)†
Jemperli Anti-Programmed Cell Death protein 1 dMMR/MSI-H 1L endometrial cancer Approved A:Dec23 A:Jul23
(dostarlimab)† receptor (PD-1) antibody 1L endometrial cancer combination with III
Zejula (niraparib)
Peri-operative dMMR/MSI-H colon cancer III
Non-small cell lung cancer1 II
Neoadjuvant dMMR/MSI-H rectal cancer II
Zejula Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) 1L maintenance ovarian cancer combination III
(niraparib)† 1/2 inhibitor with Jemperli (dostarlimab)
1L maintenance non small cell lung cancer III
(NSCLC) combination with pembrolizumab
III
Blenrep ADC targeting B-cell maturation 2L+ multiple myeloma combination with III
(belantamab antigen Pomalyst and dexamethasone
mafodotin)† 2L+ multiple myeloma combination with III
Velcade and dexamethasone
Multiple myeloma in combination with anti- II
cancer treatments (platform study)
1L multiple myeloma combination with Velcade, I
Revlimid and dexamethasone
cobolimab† Anti-T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin Non-small cell lung cancer combination with III
domain-3 (TIM-3) antibody Jemperli (dostarlimab) and docetaxel
belrestotug† Anti-TIGIT Non-small cell lung cancer combination with II
Jemperli (platform study)
Squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck II
combination with Jemperli and GSK6097608
(platform study)
4381562† Anti-PVRIG Cancer I
6097608† Anti-CD96 Cancer I
XMT-20562 STING agonist ADC Cancer I
(wholly owned by
Mersana Therapeutics)
belantamab B-cell maturation antigen binder Multiple myeloma I
4524101† DNA polymerase theta inhibitor Cancer I
5733584† ADC targeting B7-H4 Gynecologic malignancies I
HIV^
Apretude HIV integrase strand transfer inhibitor HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis Approved A:Sep23 A:Dec21
(cabotegravir) (long-acting) HIV infection I
3810109† HIV broadly neutralising antibody HIV infection II
3739937 HIV maturation inhibitor HIV infection II
4004280 HIV capsid protein inhibitor HIV infection II
4011499 HIV capsid protein inhibitor HIV infection II
4524184† HIV integrase inhibitor HIV infection II
Brand names appearing in italics are trade marks owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies.
Footnotes
(1) non-registrational.
(2)GSK has an exclusive global license option to co-develop and commercialize the candidate.
277Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Pipelines, products and competition continued
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Mechanism of Action/Vaccine Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Infectious Diseases
Arexvy Recombinant protein, adjuvanted Respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis in adults Approved A:Jun23 A:May23
(RSV vaccine)† vaccine 60 years and older
Respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis in older Registration S:Jan24 S:Dec23
adult population 50-59 years of age
gepotidacin† Triazaacenaphthylene bacterial type II Uncomplicated urinary tract infection (uUTI) III
topoisomerase inhibitor Urogenital gonorrhea (GC) III
bepirovirsen† HBV antisense oligonucleotide Chronic hepatitis B virus infection III
Bexsero vaccine Recombinant protein and outer Prevention of invasive disease caused by N. III
membrance vesicle vaccine meninigitidis serogroup B in individuals 2 months
of age and older (US)
3536819 Recombinant protein, outer Prevention of invasive disease caused by N. III
(Men ABCWY vaccine) membrance vesicle, glycoconjugate meninigitidis serogroups A,B,C,W and Y in
vaccine adolescents 10-25 years of age
tebipenem pivoxil† Antibacterial carbapenem Complicated urinary tract infection (cUTI) III
ibrexafungerp† Antifungal glucan synthase inhibitor Invasive candidiasis III
ganfeborole† Leucyl t-RNA synthetase inhibitor Tuberculosis II
alpibectir† Ethionamide booster Tuberculosis II
3437949† Recombinant protein, adjuvanted Malaria prophylaxis (Plasmodium falciparum) II
(Malaria fractional vaccine
dose)
3536852† Generalized Modules for Membrane Shigella diarrhea prophylaxis II
Antigens (GMMA) vaccine
3528869† Prime-boost with viral vector co- or Treatment of chronic Hepatitis B infections – II
(Therapeutic HBV) sequentially administrated with aims at functional cure by controlling and
adjuvanted recombinant proteins resolving the clinical sequelae of the infection
and reducing the need for further treatment
4023393 Recombinant protein, outer Prevention of invasive disease caused by N. II
(Men ABCWY, 2nd membrance vesicle – conjugated meninigitidis serogroup A,B,C,W and Y in
Gen) vaccine adolescents and children 6 weeks of age and
older
4178116 Live attenuated vaccine Active immunization for the prevention of II
(Varicella new strain) varicella in individuals 12 months of age and
older
sanfetrinem cilexetil† Serine beta lactamase inhibitor Tuberculosis II
4106647† Recombinant protein-adjuvanted Active immunization of girls and women, boys II
(HPV9-AS04) vaccine and men (9-45 years), for the prevention of
cancer, genital warts and precancerous or
dysplastic lesions (girls, boys AIN only) caused by
Human papillomavirus (HPV)
4388067 Targeted Immunotherapy (viral vector; Treatment of chronic Hepatitis B virus infection II
(CHBV ASO combo)† adjuvanted recombinant proteins) & in individuals >18 years without decompensated
Direct Acting Antiviral (GSK's cirrhosis
bepirovirsen)
5101955† MAPS Pneumococcal 24-valent paed Prevention of pneumonia and invasive II
pneumococcal disease caused by the
Streptococcus pneumoniae 24 serotypes
included in the vaccine in children aged 6 weeks
– 17 years
5101956† MAPS Pneumococcal 24-valent Prevention of pneumonia and invasive II
pneumococcal disease caused by the
Streptococcus pneumoniae 24 serotypes
included in the vaccine in adults aged 18 years
and older
4406371 Live attenuated vaccine Active immunization for the prevention of II
(MMRV new strain) measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella in
children 12 months through 12 years of age
Brand names appearing in italics are trade marks owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies.
278Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Pipelines, products and competition continued
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Mechanism of Action/Vaccine Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Infectious Diseases continued
3993129 Recombinant subunit – adjuvanted Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection prophylaxis in II
(CMV) vaccine females 16-49 years of age
4382276† mRNA vaccine Active immunization for the prevention of II
(mRNA Seasonal Flu) influenza disease in adults 18 years and older
4396687† mRNA vaccine Active immunization to prevent COVID-19 II
(mRNA COVID-19) disease caused by SARS-CoV-2 in individuals 12
years and older
3943104† Recombinant protein-adjuvanted Treatment for the suppression of recurrent II
(Therapeutic HSV) genital herpes in adults aged 18 years and older
4077164† Bivalent Generalized Modules for Invasive non-typhoidal salmonella II
(iNTS (Typhimurium Membrane Antigens (GMMA) vaccine
+ Enteritidis))
4077164† Bivalent Generalized Modules for Invasive non-typhoidal salmonella and typhoid II
(iNTS (S. typhimurium Membrane Antigens (GMMA) vaccine fever
+ S. enteritidis + and typhoid conjugate vaccine (TCV)
S. Typhi))
4348413 Generalized Modules for Membrane Active immunization for the prevention of II
(Gonorrhoea) Antigens (GMMA) vaccine gonorrhea infection in individuals aged 16 to 50
years
daplusiran + Hepatitis B virus-targeted siRNA Chronic hepatitis B virus infection II
tomligisiran sequential combination
3882347† FimH antagonist Uncomplicated urinary tract infection (uUTI) I
3186899†3 CRK-12 inhibitor Visceral leishmaniasis I
3494245† Proteasome inhibitor Visceral leishmaniasis I
2556286† Mtb cholesterol dependent inhibitor Tuberculosis I
3923868 PI4K beta inhibitor Viral COPD exacerbations I
3536867† Bivalent Typhoid and Paratyphoid A Salmonella typhoid and paratyphoid (A) enteric I
(Salmonella (typhoid + conjugate fever
paratyphoid A))
3965193 PAPD5/PAPD7 inhibitor Chronic hepatitis B virus infection I
5251738† TLR8 agonist Chronic hepatitis B virus infection I
3772701† P falciparum whole cell inhibitor Malaria I
4024484† P falciparum whole cell inhibitor Malaria I
Brand names appearing in italics are trade marks owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies.
Footnote
(3)Transition activities underway to enable further progression by partner.
279Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Pipelines, products and competition continued
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Mechanism of Action/Vaccine Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Immunology and Respiratory
Nucala (mepolizumab) Anti-IL5 COPD III
depemokimab† Anti-IL5 (long-acting) Asthma III
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps III
(CRSwNP)
Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis III
(EGPA)
Hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) III
latozinemab† Anti-sortilin monoclonal antibody Frontotemporal Dementia (FTD) due to III
Heterozygous Mutations in the Progranulin Gene
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) II
Frontotemporal Dementia (FTD) due to II
Mutations in the C9orf72 Gene
camlipixant P2X3 receptor antagonist Refractory chronic cough III
Ventolin, low carbon Beta 2 adrenergic receptor agonist Asthma4 III
version of metered
dose inhaler
Benlysta (belimumab) Anti-B lymphocyte stimulator Systemic sclerosis associated interstitial lung II
monoclonal antibody disease
3858279† Anti-CCL17 Osteoarthritis pain II
Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain II
4527226 (AL101)† Anti-sortilin monoclonal antibody Alzheimer's disease II
1070806 Anti-IL18 Atopic dermatitis II
3888130† Anti-IL7 Autoimmune disease I
3915393† Transglutaminase 2 (TG2) inhibitor Pulmonary fibrosis I
5462688† RNA-editing oligonucleotide Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency I
3862995 Anti-IL33 COPD I
4347859 Interferon pathway modulator Systemic lupus erythematosus I
Opportunity Driven
Jesduvroq Prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor Anaemia of chronic kidney disease Approved A:Feb23
(daprodustat)
linerixibat Ileal bile acid transporter (IBAT) Cholestatic pruritus in PBC (primary biliary III
inhibitor cholangitis)
4532990† HSD17B13 silencer Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) II
4172239† DNMT1 inhibitor Sickle cell disease I
Brand names appearing in italics are trade marks owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies.
Footnote
(4) Phase III start expected in 2024.
280Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Pipelines, products and competition continued
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property
Major Patent expiry dates1
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Respiratory
Anoro Ellipta umeclidinium bromide/ COPD Spiolto/Stiolto Respimat, 2027 2029
vilanterol trifenatate Utibron/Ultibro (NCE) (NCE)
Breezhaler, Duaklir Genuair 2027-2031 2024-2026
Bevespi Aerosphere, (device) (device)
Brimica Genuair
Avamys/Veramyst fluticasone furoate Allergic rhinitis Dymista, Xhance, expired expired
Nasonex, Fluticasone Gx
Nucala mepolizumab Asthma, CRSwNP, EGPA, Fasenra expired2 expired2
HES
Relvar/Breo Ellipta fluticasone furoate/ Asthma, COPD Symbicort, Foster, 2025 2027
vilanterol trifenatate Budesonide/Formoterol (NCE) (NCE)
generics, Fluticasone 2027-2031 2024-2026
Propionate/Salmeterol (device) (device)
generics, Beclomethasone/
Formoterol generics, Atectura
Seretide/Advair salmeterol xinafoate/ Asthma, COPD Symbicort, Foster, expired expired
fluticasone propionate Budesonide/Formoterol (Diskus device) (Diskus device)
generics, Fluticasone 2023-2026 expired
Propionate/Salmeterol (HFA-device) (HFA-device)
generics, Beclomethasone/
Formoterol generics, Atectura
Trelegy Ellipta fluticasone furoate/ COPD, asthma Breztri Aerosphere, Trimbow 2027 2029
vilanterol trifenatate (NCE) (NCE)
umeclidinium bromide 2027-2031 2024-2026
(device) (device)
Ventolin Salbutamol sulphate Asthma, COPD Salbutamol/SABA generics, 2023-2026 expired
Symbicort as reliever (PRN & (HFA-device) (HFA-device)
MARTI)3, Airsupra (US only)
Xevudy sotrovimab Early treatment of COVID-19 REGEN-COV, bamlanivimab/2041 2041
etesevimab, Evusheld
Central nervous system
Lamictal lamotrigine Epilepsy, bipolar disorder Vimpat, Trokendi XR, expired expired
Inovelon, Keppra, generics
Keppra levetiracetam Epilepsy Briviact, Vimpat, Lamictal, NA NA
Depakene, Depacon,
generics
Cardiovascular and urogenital
Avodart & Duodart dutasteride Benign prostatic hyperplasia Generics, Finasteride, Alpha expired expired
dutasteride + tamsulosin (BPH) Blockers
Anti-bacterials
Augmentin Amoxicillin trihydrate/ Common bacterial infections Generics, Oral NA expired
potassium clavulanate Cephalosporins – Cefuroxime
axetil, Cefixime,
Cefpodoxime, Cefdinir,
Cephalexin
Oral Macrolides –
Azithromycin, Clarithromycin
(1) Unless otherwise stated, patent expiry dates relate to the latest expiring new molecular entity patents in the relevant territory. Where appropriate, these
patent expiry dates include granted Patent Term Extensions in the US, granted Supplementary Protection Certificates in multiple countries of the EU and in
the UK, and Paediatric Exclusivity periods. Additional exclusivities (for example regulatory data protection or other types of patents) may exist but are not
listed in the table.
(2)Regulatory data protection expires 2027 (US) and 2026 (EU).
(3)PRN = use as required *MART = maintenance and reliever therapy.
281Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Pipelines, products and competition continued
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property continued
Major Patent expiry dates1
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Dermatology
Dermovate, Clobetasol propionate, Inflammatory skin conditions Generics, Other topical Not marketed expired
Betnovate, Betamethasone valerate, corticosteroids like in US
Cutivate, Fluticasone propionate, Mometasone furoate,
Eumovate Clobetasone butyrate Methylprednisolone
aceponate and
Hydrocortisone
Oncology
Zejula niraparib ovarian cancer Lynparza, Rubraca 2031 2032
Blenrep belantamab mafodotin relapsed/refractory multiple Abecma, Carvykti, Tecvayli, 2032 2032
myeloma Talvey, Elrexfio
Jemperli dostarlimab dMMR/MSI-H recurrent/ Keytruda, Imfinzi+Lynparza 2034 2034
advanced endometrial
cancer, dMMR solid tumours
Ojjaara/Omjjara momelotinib myelofibrosis in patients with Jakafi, Inrebic, Vonjo 2030 2028
anemia
Immuno-inflammation
Benlysta, Benlysta belimumab systemic lupus Lupkynis, Saphnelo 2025 2026
(SC and IV) erythematosus, lupus
nephritis
Renal
Jesduvroq, Duvroq Daprodustat anaemia of chronic kidney Evrenzo (roxadustat), 2027 Not approved
disease vadadustat in EU
HIV
Apretude Cabotegravir HIV prevention Descovy, Truvada 2026 2031
Cabenuva/Vocabria Cabotegravir, rilpivirine HIV/AIDS Descovy, Genvoya, Odefsey, 2026 2031
+ Rekambys Biktarvy
Rukobia Fostemsavir HIV/AIDS Trogarzo, Sunlenca 2029 2025
Dovato Dolutegravir, lamivudine HIV/AIDS Descovy, Genvoya, Odefsey, 2028 2029
Biktarvy
Juluca Dolutegravir, rilpivirine HIV/AIDS Descovy, Genvoya, Odefsey, 2028 2029
Biktarvy
Triumeq Dolutegravir, lamivudine and HIV/AIDS Descovy, Genvoya, Odefsey, 2028 2029
abacavir Biktarvy
Tivicay Dolutegravir HIV/AIDS Isentress, Prezista Symtuza, 2028 2029
Reyataz, Biktarvy
(1) Unless otherwise stated, patent expiry dates relate to the latest expiring new molecular entity patents in the relevant territory. Where appropriate, these
patent expiry dates include granted Patent Term Extensions in the US, granted Supplementary Protection Certificates in multiple countries of the EU and in
the UK, and Paediatric Exclusivity periods. Additional exclusivities (for example regulatory data protection or other types of patents) may exist but are not
listed in the table.
282Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Pipelines, products and competition continued
Vaccine products, competition and intellectual property
Major Patent expiry dates1
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Arexvy Respiratory syncytial virus Respiratory syncytial virus Abrysvo 2030 2032
vaccine vaccination
Bexsero meningococcal group-B Meningitis group B Trumenba 2027 2028
vaccine prophylaxis
Boostrix diphtheria, tetanus, acellular diphtheria, tetanus, acellular Adacel expired expired
pertussis Pertussis booster vaccination
Infanrix Hexa/ diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, Prophylaxis against Pentacel, Pediacel, Pentaxim, expired expired
Pediarix polio, hepatitis B, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, Pentavac,
Haemophilus influenzae type polio, hepatitis B, Hexaxim, Hexyon
B (EU) Haemophilus influenzae type Vaxelis
B (EU)
Cervarix HPV 16 & 18 virus like human papilloma virus Gardasil (Silgard) Not marketed expired
particles (VLPs), AS04 type 16 and 18 in US
adjuvant (MPL + aluminium
hydroxide)
Fluarix Tetra split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza Intenza, Flumist QIV, expired expired
antigens (2 virus subtypes A prophylaxis Vaxigrip QIV,
and 2 subtype B) Fluzone QIV,
Fluzone High Dose
FluLaval split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, expired expired
antigens (2 virus subtypes A prophylaxis Fluzone, Influvac,
and 2 subtype B) Aggripal, Fluad,
Intenza, Flumist
Menveo meningococcal group A, C, Meningitis group A, C, W-135 Nimenrix, MenQuadfi 2025 2025
W-135 and Y conjugate and Y prophylaxis
vaccine
Priorix, Priorix live attenuated MMR, measles, mumps, rubella and MMR II (M-M-RVaxPro) expired expired
Tetraa, Varilrix Varicella and MMRV chickenpox prophylaxis Proquad, Varivax
vaccines
Rotarix Human rotavirus RIX4414 Rotavirus prophylaxis Rotateq expired expired
strain
Synflorix conjugated pneumococcal Prophylaxis against invasive Prevenar (Prevnar) Note marketed 2026
polysaccharide disease, pneumonia, acute in US
otitis media
Shingrix zoster vaccine herpes zoster Zostavax 2029 2031
recombinant, adjuvanted (shingles)
(1) Unless otherwise stated, patent expiry dates relate to the latest expiring new molecular entity patents in the relevant territory. Where appropriate, these
patent expiry dates include granted Patent Term Extensions in the US, granted Supplementary Protection Certificates in multiple countries of the EU and in
the UK, and Paediatric Exclusivity periods. Additional exclusivities (for example regulatory data protection or other types of patents) may exist but are not
listed in the table.
283Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Principal risks and uncertainties
We outline below the principal risks and uncertainties relevant Litigation and government investigations, and the related
to GSK’s business, financial condition and operations that may provisions we may make for unfavourable outcomes and
affect our performance and ability to achieve our objectives. increases in related costs, such as insurance premiums, could
These are the risks that we believe could cause our actual also materially and adversely affect our financial results.
results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
More detail on the status and various uncertainties in our
Operating in the biopharmaceutical sector carries various significant unresolved disputes and potential litigation is set out
inherent risks and uncertainties that may affect our business. in Note 47 ‘Legal proceedings’on page 239.
We must comply with a broad range of laws and regulations More details regarding our risk management framework and
which apply to the research and development, manufacturing, how we identify our principal risks can be found on pages 57 to
testing, approval, distribution, sales, and marketing of 61 and incorporated in this section. Other risks related to
pharmaceutical and vaccine products. These affect the cost of Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) which are not at
product development, the time required to reach the market the level of principal risks, including environmental sustainability
and the likelihood of doing so successfully on an uninterrupted and climate change, are managed through our six focus areas,
basis. and as described in our ESG Performance Report. Additional
information on climate-related risk management is in our
As rules and regulations change, government interpretation
climate-related financial disclosure on pages 62 to 70.
and policy evolves, and our business activities develop, the
nature of a particular risk may also alter. Changes to regulatory UK regulations require a description of principal risks and
regimes may be substantial. Any alteration in, and failure to uncertainties and an explanation of how these are being
comply with, applicable laws and regulations could materially managed or mitigated. Below is a description of each of our
and adversely affect our financial results. principal risks, together with a summary of their impact and how
we manage each risk across our businesses. They are not listed
Similarly, our global business exposes us to litigation and
in order of significance and are consistent with the principal
government investigations, including product liability litigation,
risks detailed on pages 59 to 61.
patent and antitrust litigation and sales and marketing
litigation.
Patient safety
Risk definition Context
The risk that GSK, including our third parties, fails to We are accountable for safeguarding patients and clinical trial
appropriately collect, assess, follow up, or report human safety participants who receive our medicines and vaccines, whether
information, including adverse events, from all potential sources in development or marketed, from harm. While an unforeseen
or that GSK potentially fails to appropriately act on any relevant event that unfavorably shifts the benefit/risk profile is not a
findings that may affect the benefit-risk profile of a medicine or probable occurrence, such an event cannot be fully discounted;
vaccine in a timely manner. we mitigate this risk through robust safety evaluation and
product risk management activities.
Risk impact
Our Chief Medical Officer is the single point of accountability
GSK will not tolerate an unfavourable benefit-to-risk profile for
for benefit/risk decision-making. Cross-functional Safety
patients who use our products. As the most important
Review Teams continually assess new safety and efficacy
consequence of ineffective pharmacovigilance is the potential
information for every GSK product throughout its life cycle. Our
for harm to patients, we maintain robust processes for
Global Safety Board, under the leadership of our Chief Medical
managing human safety information, conducting timely safety
Officer and Head of Global Safety, reviews product safety at
signal detection, and ensuring appropriate measures are in
established milestones and in every situation where there might
place to manage risks to patients. GSK also intends to fully
be a potential impact on a benefit/risk profile.
comply with pharmacovigilance and other relevant regulations
worldwide. Non-compliance could result in inspection findings, We must operate in a complex and restrictive
regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal sanctions and either pharmacovigilance regulatory environment, sometimes
temporary or permanent loss of product marketing complicated by variable requirements between regulatory
authorisation. We regularly review and respond to all patient agencies. Such regulatory complexity is further illustrated by
safety risks to limit the potential for reputational damage, loss instances of regulatory agencies taking decisions on the safety
of trust by patients and healthcare providers, product-related of medicines and vaccines based on externally available data
litigation, and loss of shareholder confidence. that may not be accessible to the marketing authorisation
holder. This trend could inhibit our ability to make timely
decisions and take appropriate action in relation to the safety
of our products, or to confirm or refute conclusions asserted by
external parties. This has the potential to extend beyond
regulatory agencies to next-generation digital health data held
by technology companies or other data custodians, and
inaccessible by our industry and/or regulatory agencies.
284Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Patient safety continued
There are many sources of information that might trigger an In 2023, we took additional steps to strengthen how we
increase in reporting related to products and/or adverse events safeguard patients and enhance the execution of our
(such as media coverage, social media, government health pharmacovigilance operational activities. We have added risk
authorities, etc.). Ineffective management of patient safety risks management and benefit/risk expertise to our Global Safety
could not only result in reputational damage, loss of trust by organisation that will enhance our ability to define the risk
patients and healthcare providers, and decline in shareholder management strategy for an evolving portfolio for which more
confidence, but could also increase the volume of product- complex risk minimisation measures may be required, to be
related litigation, including class-action lawsuits, which is followed in 2024 with a new system that will better enable us to
regularly faced by GSK and our industry in general. track the implementation and effectiveness of our risk
management plans. We have transitioned to a simplified, more
Mitigating actions
efficient approach for collecting, following up, and reporting
Our Chief Medical Officer is accountable for the Patient Safety human safety information including adverse events from all
enterprise risk and human safety matters, in collaboration with potential sources. We are continuing to build capability across
the Head of Global Safety. A cross-enterprise safety all GSK staff who hold accountability for our Pharmacovigilance
governance board oversees implementation of our control Quality Management System and are in the process of
framework, including risk management. Our Global Safety embedding a simplified process for managing
Board ensures that we address human safety proactively pharmacovigilance agreements and safety clauses between
throughout a product’s lifecycle. Our global policy on GSK and third parties, including our strategic partners.
management of human safety information requires that all
employees immediately report issues relating to the safety of
our products. Our third party risk management framework
supports us in identifying and training any third parties who
may encounter human safety information.
Product quality
Risk definition Mitigating actions
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to ensure We align an extensive global network of quality and
appropriate controls and governance of quality for compliance professionals from site-level to senior management
development and commercial products are in place; within each business unit to provide oversight and assist with
compliance with industry practices and regulations in the delivery of quality performance and operational
manufacturing and distribution activities; and terms of GSK compliance. We deliver this management oversight through a
product licenses and supporting regulatory activities are met. hierarchy of quality councils and a Global Head of Quality.
Risk impact We are expanding our Quality Management System, Good
Manufacturing Practice Audit and Quality assurance oversight
A failure to ensure product quality could have far-reaching
programme across R&D to ensure that we mitigate potential
implications for patient safety, cause product launch delays,
product quality risk across the end-to-end process. We have
drug shortages or product recalls, and have regulatory, legal,
implemented a risk-based approach to assessing and
and financial consequences. These could materially and
managing third party suppliers that provide materials used in
adversely affect GSK’s reputation and financial results.
our finished products including monitoring third party labs and
Context how they are independently checking goods. We expect
contract manufacturers that make our products to comply with
The external environment for product quality remains
GSK standards and regularly conduct audits to provide us with
challenging. An increase in supplier mergers in our supply
assurance. We use key risk indicators to support risk
network can create challenge in influencing their quality
management activities and provide leadership teams and
standards. The rapid advancement and use of digital
quality councils with an integrated assessment of product
technologies such as artificial intelligence and machine
quality performance.
learning (AI/ML) within an evolving regulatory framework
introduces both opportunity for modernisation and potential to Throughout 2023, we continued to actively manage the
impact product quality if not adequately controlled. There will deployment of plans to align with the New Annex 1 guidance for
be a need to adopt and adapt to new, updated guidance on the manufacture of sterile medicinal products in the context of
this as it emerges. The threat of cyber-attacks and data global equipment and component supply chain constraints
breaches across the industry could risk the integrity of product effecting the industry. We are increasingly applying advanced
quality data and its audit trail. Additionally, a gradual digital technologies and insights to drive scientific excellence to
divergence in regulatory expectations during inspections, enhance and modernise the development, manufacture and
particularly from some health authorities, presents a challenge testing of our products and to protect our data. We are actively
to our sites as they prepare for inspections. Retaining expertise contributing to industry advocacy and to influence thinking on
in biopharma and the deep capability to support digital the regulatory frameworks for these advancing technologies to
progression has the potential to be a challenge in a highly support patient safety benefit and access.
competitive environment.
285Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Product quality continued
We are collaboratively working with other pharma companies We continue to adapt our procedures to the evolving
and industry trade associations to respond to questions from expectations on this topic and work on our mitigation plans
the EMA and completing the safety evaluation of the use of alongside regular engagement with regulators, at all times
Titanium Dioxide in medicines, as well as identifying potential ensuring our inspection readiness for all the markets we serve.
substitutes. We are working with industry to monitor emerging
risk factors and regulatory intelligence and guidance on
Nitrosamines.
Financial controls and reporting
Risk definition This can lead to double taxation, with profits taxed in more than
one country. The complexity of tax regulations also means that
The risk that GSK fails to comply with current tax laws; fails to
we may occasionally disagree with tax authorities on the
report accurate financial information in compliance with
technical interpretation of a particular area of tax law. The tax
accounting standards and applicable legislation; or incurs
charge included in our financial statements is our best estimate
significant losses due to treasury activities.
of tax liability pending any audits by tax authorities. We expect
Risk impact there to be a continued focus on tax reform, driven by initiatives
by the OECD and the EC to address the tax challenges arising
Non-compliance with existing or new financial or new ESG
from digitalisation of the economy.
reporting and disclosure requirements, or changes to the
recognition of income and expenses, could expose GSK to Together with domestic initiatives around the world, these may
litigation and regulatory action and could materially and result in significant changes to established tax principles and an
adversely affect our financial results. Failure to comply with increase in tax authority disputes. Regardless of their merit or
changes in the substance or application of the laws governing outcomes, these may be costly, divert management attention
transfer pricing, dividends, tax credits and intellectual property and adversely impact our reputation and relationship with key
could also materially and adversely affect our financial results. stakeholders. Laws, regulations, orders and other measures
Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could restrict dealings with certain countries, governments,
result in GSK being investigated by relevant government government officials, entities, individuals, and the use of
agencies and authorities and/or in legal proceedings against financial institutions and movement of funds.
us. Government investigations and litigation, can be
Mitigating actions
unpredictable and regardless of their outcome, may be costly,
require significant management attention, and damage our We keep up to date with the latest developments in financial
reputation. Inconsistent application of treasury policies, reporting requirements by reviewing updates from regulators,
transactional or settlement errors, or counterparty defaults working with our external auditor and legal advisors and
could lead to significant losses. performing and responding to emerging risks. Financial results
are reviewed and approved by regional management, before
Context
being reviewed by GSK’s Group Financial Controller and Chief
We are required by the laws of various jurisdictions to publicly Financial Officer (CFO). This allows our Financial Controller and
disclose our financial results and any events that could CFO to assess the evolution of the business over time, and to
materially affect the Group’s financial results. Regulators evaluate its performance to plan. Significant judgements are
routinely review the financial statements of listed companies for reviewed and confirmed by senior management. We integrate
compliance with new, revised, or existing accounting and technical or organisational transformation, newly acquired
regulatory requirements. We believe that we comply with the activities and external risks into our risk assessments and apply
appropriate regulatory requirements concerning our financial appropriate controls and reviews.
statements and the disclosure of material information, including
We maintain a control environment designed to identify
any transactions relating to business restructuring such as
material errors in financial reporting and disclosure. We have a
acquisitions and divestitures. However, should we be subject to
standardised global financial reporting operating model. The
an investigation into potential non-compliance with accounting
design and operating effectiveness of key financial reporting
and disclosure requirements, this could lead to restatements of
controls are regularly reviewed by management and tested by
previously reported results and significant penalties. Our
external third parties. The few locations which are not on the
Treasury group deals daily in high value transactions, mostly
standard model apply a minimum standard set of controls
foreign exchange, and cash management transactions. These
which are reviewed by management and monitored
transactions involve market volatility and counterparty risk. The
independently. This gives us assurance that controls over key
Group’s effective tax rate reflects the locations of our activities
financial reporting and disclosure processes are operating
and the value they generate, which determine the jurisdictions
effectively. Our Global Finance Risk Management and Controls
in which profits arise and the applicable tax rates.
(FRMC) group provides extra support during significant
These may be higher or lower than the UK statutory rate and transformations, such as system deployment or management/
may reflect regimes that encourage innovation and investment structural reorganisations. We add operational resources and
in R&D by providing tax incentives which, if changed, could adapt programme timelines to ensure processes and controls
affect GSK’s tax rate. In addition, the worldwide nature of our are maintained during significant changes. The Disclosure
operations means that our cross-border supply routes, Committee, reporting to the Board, reviews GSK’s quarterly
necessary to ensure supplies of medicines and vaccines, can results and annual report.
result in conflicting claims from tax authorities as to the profits
to be taxed in individual countries.
286Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Financial controls and reporting continued
Throughout the year, in consultation with its legal advisors, the Where relevant, we provide pragmatic and constructive
Disclosure Committee also determines whether it is necessary to business input to tax policy makers, either directly or through
disclose publicly information about the Group through stock industry trade bodies. This includes advocating reform to
exchange announcements. The Treasury Management Group support economic growth and job creation, as well as the needs
meets regularly to ensure that liquidity, interest rate, of our patients and other key stakeholders. Our tax affairs are
counterparty, foreign currency transaction and foreign currency managed on a global basis by a team of tax professionals, led
translation risks are all managed in line with the prudent by the Global Head of Tax, who work closely with the business
approach detailed in the risk strategies and policies adopted by on a day-to-day basis. The Global Tax team is suitably qualified
our Board. Counterparty exposure is subject to defined limits for the roles they perform, and we support their training needs
approved by the Board for both credit rating and individual so they can provide up to date technical advice in line with their
counterparties. responsibilities. We submit tax returns according to statutory
time limits and engage proactively with tax authorities to ensure
The Middle Office within Treasury monitor the management of
our tax affairs are current, entering into continuous audit
counterparty risk in line with agreed policy with oversight from a
programmes and advance pricing agreements where
corporate compliance officer, operating independently of
appropriate. These arrangements provide long-term certainty
Treasury. Further details on mitigation of Treasury risks can be
for both tax authorities and GSK over the tax treatment of our
found on pages 243 to 245. We manage tax risk through robust
business, based on full disclosure of all relevant facts. We seek
internal policies, processes, training, and compliance
to resolve any differences of interpretation in tax legislation with
programmes. We maintain open and constructive relationships
tax authorities in a cooperative manner. In exceptional cases,
with tax authorities worldwide. We monitor government debate
we may have to resolve disputes through formal proceedings.
on tax policy in our key jurisdictions, so that we can understand
any potential future changes in tax law and share an informed
point of view.
Legal matters
Risk definition Supportive aspects of the external environment include an
increase in focus on corporate transparency. Advances in
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to comply
technology and the use of data analytics are also providing
with certain legal requirements for the development, supply and
better platforms to streamline processes and detect potential
commercialisation of our products and operation of business,
issues.
and specifically in relation to requirements for competition law,
anti-bribery and corruption, and sanctions. Any failure to meet Mitigation actions
compliance and legal standards for these particular areas
Our Group General Counsel oversees and is accountable for the
could lead to increasing scrutiny and enforcement from
Legal Matters principal risk. We have enterprise anti-bribery
government agencies.
and corruption, competition law and sanctions control
Risk impact frameworks and programmes designed to ensure compliance
with applicable laws and regulations, building on our Code,
Failure to mitigate legal risk could expose GSK and associated
culture and business standards, and monitor and adapt to
persons to governmental investigation, regulatory action, and
evolving regulations and our business activities. Our
civil and criminal liability. It may compromise GSK’s ability to
programmes include senior leader commitment, setting the
supply its products under certain government contracts. In
tone at the top.
addition, failure to manage legal risk could have substantial
implications for GSK’s reputation and the credibility of senior These control frameworks are based on globally recognised
leaders. It might erode investor confidence in our governance, and accepted principles and include global policies, written
risk management and future performance, and have a standards and controls to govern business activities that give
consequential negative impact on share performance. It could rise to these risks. We mandate enhanced controls, including
also lead to the imposition of significant financial penalties and due diligence requirements and sanctions screening, for specific
the imposition of additional reporting obligations. high-risk activities such as interactions with government
officials, during business development transactions and
Context
engagement with third parties.
The overall environment for anti-bribery and corruption,
We regularly provide anti-bribery and corruption, competition
competition law and sanctions and export controls remains
law and sanctions training to employees, and relevant
challenging. There continues to be a strong enforcement
complementary workers and third parties in accordance with
appetite for bribery investigations and prosecutions, with a
their roles, responsibilities and risks they face. We include
particular focus on the conduct of multinational companies
aspects of these key risks in our annual mandatory training and
wherever they operate. The focus on sanctions, export controls
reinforce to our workforce clear expectations regarding
and competition law enforcements has increased. From a
acceptable behaviours.
sanctions perspective, we have seen penalties for violations
levied on companies from a number of different industries. We leverage data analytics and use information from our
Merger control has seen increasing intervention with greater monitoring and other assurance activities, key risk indicators,
divergence in decisions and policy by enforcement agencies. investigations, and Speak Up channels to identify specific areas
Financial penalties handed down in these types of case are for intervention, and drive continuous improvements and
often very significant. enhancements to our controls. We investigate allegations of
non-compliance and take disciplinary action as required and
where permitted locally.
287Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Legal matters continued
Dedicated teams are responsible for the implementation and We continuously assess, monitor and understand our risk
evolution of the risk framework and programmes for anti- exposure to related risks, including our money laundering risk,
bribery and corruption, competition law, and sanctions. and actively consider and implement improvements to the risk
framework and programmes based on internal and external
learnings, considering the complexity and geographic breadth
of the risk.
Commercial practices
Risk definition Financially, new products/indications carry with them an
uncertainty of future success. Product development is costly,
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially engage in
lengthy, and uncertain, and carries the potential for failure at
commercial activities that fail to comply with laws, regulations,
any stage. Even after successful product development, we face
industry codes, and internal controls and requirements.
challenges in how we launch, and our competitors’ products or
Risk impact pricing strategies could render our assets less competitive. We
support product innovation through our continued focus on
Failure to engage in activities that are consistent with the letter
both in-person and virtual engagement, with a constant focus
and spirit of the law, industry regulations, or the Group’s
on our patient. Once we have an approved medicine or
requirements relating to sales and promotion of medicines and
vaccine, it is our obligation to provide important information to
vaccines; with appropriate interactions with healthcare
the healthcare community in various ways, always in a
professionals (HCPs), organisations and patients; with
responsible, legal, and ethical manner.
legitimate and transparent transfers of value; and with pricing
and competition (or antitrust) regulations in commercial Appropriate product promotion ensures HCPs have access to
practices, including trade channel activities and business the information they need, that patients and consumers have
tendering, could materially and adversely affect our ability to the facts about the medicines and vaccines they require, and
deliver our strategy and long-term priorities. Additionally, it may that products are prescribed, recommended, or used in a
result in incomplete awareness of the risk/benefit profile of our manner that provides healthcare benefit. We are committed to
products and possibly suboptimal treatment of patients and the ethical and responsible commercialisation of our products
consumers; governmental investigation, regulatory action and in support of our purpose to improve the quality of human life
legal proceedings brought against the Group by governmental and get ahead of disease together.
and private plaintiffs which could result in government
Mitigating actions
sanctions, and criminal and/or financial penalties. Any
practices that are found to be misaligned with our culture could We have evolved policies and standards incrementally to
also result in reputational harm and dilute the trust established ensure that commercial activities that we undertake or are
with external stakeholders. conducted on our behalf are executed within our established
governance. We train employees on relevant information with a
Context focus on interactive learning and elements of behavioural
science. All our commercial activities worldwide must conform
We operate in a highly regulated and extremely competitive
to high ethical, regulatory, and industry standards. Where local
biopharma industry, amongst peers who make significant
standards differ from global ones, we apply those that are most
product innovations and technical advances and intensify price
stringent. Where the standards of an acquired company or joint
competition. Additional external factors include access
venture partner differ from our global standards, we remediate
limitations to our customers, macroeconomic inflationary
legacy policies and implement revisions, so they align. Our
dynamics, and pricing pressure across markets. To achieve our
businesses continue to use our internal control framework to
strategic objectives, we must continue to develop commercially
support the assessment and management of risks.
viable new products, sustain reliable supply, and deliver
additional uses for existing products that address the needs of
patients, consumers, HCPs and payers.
288Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Commercial practices continued
Business unit risk management and compliance boards, which We allow fair-market value payments to be made by GSK to
manage risks across global and in-country business activities, expert practitioners to speak about our innovative medicines
oversee commercial activities and their monitoring and vaccines during a restricted period in a product’s lifecycle,
programmes. All promotional materials and activities must be or when new and competitive data is published. To support this,
reviewed and approved according to our policies and in 2023 we embedded a global end-to-end expert engagement
standards and conducted in accordance with local laws and process, rolled out a Healthcare Organisation (HCO) process,
regulations; these requirements seek to ensure that such created a new standard operating procedure for tenders,
materials and activities fairly represent the Group’s products or updated our External Expert Engagement operating procedure,
services. Where necessary, in the event of misconduct, we have and further strengthened our interactive digital media channel
disciplined employees, up to and including termination of controls through the identification of all channels, and the
contract, and, applied/enforced GSK's senior leader contracting of a third party to monitor these channels across
recoupment policy. We have continued to evolve our incentive GSK, to drive consistent ways of working and efficiencies and
programme for sales representatives to better recognise and strengthen controls through automation and use of data.
reward individual effort. In nearly all markets, the capped Where permitted we report payments to individual HCPs as
variable pay element of representatives’ compensation is part of our commitment to transparency and responsible
evaluated on the basis of individual sales targets. disclosure.
Scientific and patient engagement
Risk definition Mitigating actions
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to engage Our Chief Medical Officer (CMO) oversees all non-promotional
externally to gain insights, educate and communicate on the scientific and patient engagement (SPE) as enterprise risk
science of our medicines and associated disease areas, and owner. The GSK Code of Practice is the key internal policy for
provide grants and donations in a legitimate and transparent non-promotional engagement activities. These activities include
manner compliant with laws, regulations, industry codes and scientific interactions, support for medical education, advice
internal controls and requirements. seeking, gathering insights on unmet needs of patients,
scientific communication of our research, and disease
Risk impact
awareness, healthcare support services and patient support
Without controls in place, the risk could result in real, perceived, programs.
or disguised promotion including off-label and prior
Process simplification continued into 2023. Global process
authorisation promotion, and real or perceived provision of
owners accountable for the end-to-end process have been
medical advice. This could lead to reputational damage,
assigned for the simplified processes: Seeking Advice, Content
competitor complaints, regulatory inspections with subsequent
Approval, Medical Information and Medical Education. This
corrective actions, or civil litigation.
accountability includes the comprehensive oversight of the
We must fully and appropriately engage externally to bring process, the creation of an appropriate internal control
patient benefit, and to advance science and innovation, while framework and continuous evaluation of process for
delivering our strategy. Otherwise, we risk reducing the trust of improvement where necessary.
the public, patients, healthcare professionals, payers, regulators,
All SPE materials and activities must be reviewed and approved
and governments.
according to our policies and standards. Additional controls for
Context the review of SPE content have been implemented to continue
to ensure content is non-promotional, accurate, fair, objective
Scientific and patient engagements are diverse non-
and balanced and will not be perceived as promotion.
promotional activities directed at healthcare professionals,
patients, payers, and external stakeholders. Such engagements We have further modernised our digital approach to HCPs,
aim to improve patient care through the exchange or provision embedded our framework for interactions with patients and
of knowledge on the use of our products and related diseases. patient organisations, and developed our policy for healthcare
Scientific and patient engagement with external stakeholder support services and patient support programmes and applied
groups is vital to GSK, as a research-based biopharma our internal principles to these activities. An internal framework
company that is ambitious for patients and to advance science for Software as Medical Device was established including an
and medicine. Expert Panel that provides business owners with multi-
disciplinary advice. The cross-business unit SPE risk council
We expect our activities to be scientifically sound and accurate,
oversees SPE activities and reviews monitoring and audit data,
conducted ethically and transparently, and compliant with
while the SPE network reviews the maturity of the internal
applicable codes, laws, and regulations. There are many
control framework of the SPE processes. We continuously
industry and local codes and laws and other regulations that
improve our internal controls, systems and networks to identify
apply (such as Privacy or Data integrity). That means measured
emerging risks early and to support staff to conduct activities in
risk-taking, rooted in sound ethical considerations, and
compliance with GSK’s culture and policies and local laws and
principles-based decision-making, training, communication,
regulations while building effective risk management and
and monitoring of such activities are key to managing the risk
management monitoring systems.
and enabling full and appropriate engagement.
.
289Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Data ethics and privacy
Risk definition Mitigating actions
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to ethically Our General Counsel is GSK’s Enterprise Risk Owner (ERO), and
collect; use; re-use through artificial intelligence, data analytics chairs our Digital and Privacy Governance Board, which
or automation; secure; share and destroy personal information oversees GSK’s overall data ethics and privacy operating model.
in accordance with laws, regulations, and internal controls and Each GSK business area has appointed a risk owner
requirements. accountable for overseeing its privacy risks, supported by
privacy leaders within their business. In countries where local
Risk impact
data privacy laws require the appointment of a Data Protection
Non-compliance with data privacy laws globally could lead to Officer (DPO), GSK has made such appointments, including an
harm to individuals and GSK. It could also damage trust EU DPO. As a result of GSK’s focus on technology, data-driven
between GSK and individuals, communities, business partners science, use of AI/ML and our evolving global data strategy,
and government authorities. Many countries have increased the the ERO has appointed a Head of Digital, Privacy and
enforcement powers of their data protection authorities by Cybersecurity (Head of DPC), who has day-to-day
allowing them to impose significant fines, restrict cross-border accountability for designing and implementing the control
data flows, or temporarily ban data processing. Many new framework.
national laws also enable individuals to bring collective legal
actions against companies such as GSK for failing to follow The Head of DPC leads a global, cross-functional core team of
data privacy laws. digital- and privacy-qualified attorneys and compliance
professionals, supported by a network of privacy leaders within
Context business units/functions, privacy contacts locally, and the wider
Data protection and privacy legislation is diverse, with limited Legal & Compliance team. GSK has a global data ethics and
global harmonisation or simplification, making it challenging for privacy framework based on the EU General Data Protection
multinationals to standardise their approach to compliance. Regulation, which is deployed in every market based on factors
Governments are enforcing compliance with data protection including the robustness of local privacy legislation, established
and privacy laws more rigorously. data protection authorities, and GSK’s footprint.
The approach and focus of data protection and privacy Beyond those countries, we have deployed a proportionate
regulators also differs between regions and countries, which control framework to set up minimum privacy standards
creates further challenges for global organisations seeking to irrespective of any applicable legislation.
implement a single harmonised global privacy programme.
Our core team is responsible for:
Increases in the volume of data processed and advances in
–operating and improving the centralised global data ethics
technology have resulted in a greater focus on data
and privacy control framework
governance and the ethical use of personal information, over
–continuously assessing and providing relevant and
and above compliance with data privacy laws. Companies
proportionate controls and aid to non-deployed markets
seeking to foster innovation in artificial intelligence and other
–monitoring new, or changing, laws and adapting the privacy
new technologies are faced with evolving decisions from global
framework accordingly
policymakers on how best to promote trust in these systems and
avoid unintended outcomes or harmful impacts. –deploying a comprehensive training programme to drive
greater awareness and accountability for managing personal
Additionally, there are a number of emerging laws concerning information across the entire organisation
the localisation of data, restrictions on international transfers – legal and regulatory expertise in emerging technologies,
and data security, which are changing existing frameworks that including artificial intelligence and machine learning
GSK has previously relied upon. This increasing trend for data
sovereignty affects our ability to drive medical innovation and We ensure key GSK privacy network roles have sufficient
to effectively operate internationally. training and experience to carry out their roles effectively. We
continuously improve our processes, such as issue identification,
Global regulators (such as the EU, UK, US and China) are also reporting and handling, through monitoring. Our core team
in the process of introducing legislation around the use of works with the business to ensure we build in privacy controls
artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML). There into all existing and new business initiatives, as well as ensuring
continues to be considerable uncertainty around the final we meet our accountability obligations in accordance with
version of these proposed laws. global data protection and privacy laws.
290Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Research practices
Risk definition We use a wide variety of biological materials in the discovery,
research, and development of our assets. We are committed to
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to
ensuring research is compliant with terms and conditions of
adequately conduct ethical and credible pre-clinical and
licenses, agreements or authorisations under which we acquire,
clinical research, collaborate in research activities compliant
use, or transfer biological materials and technologies. Through
with laws, regulations, and internal controls and requirements.
the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and the Nagoya
Risk impact Protocol, the international community has established a global
framework regulating access to, and use of, genetic resources
The potential impacts of the risk include harm to human
of non-human origin in research and development. We support
subjects, reputational damage, failure to obtain the necessary
the equitable access and fairness principles of access and
regulatory approvals for our products, governmental
benefit sharing (ABS) outlined in the CBD and the Nagoya
investigation, legal proceedings brought against GSK by
Protocol. We also recognise the importance of appropriate,
governmental and private plaintiffs (product liability suits and
effective, and proportionate implementation measures at
claims for damages), loss of revenue due to inadequate patent
national and regional levels.
protection or inability to supply our products, and regulatory
action such as fines, penalties, or loss of product authorisation. Mitigating actions
Poor data integrity and governance could compromise GSK’s
The Research Practices risk is overseen by an enterprise
R&D efforts and negatively impact our reputation. Any of these
framework that seeks to strengthen governance across R&D.
could materially and adversely affect our financial results and
Under the leadership of the Research Practices Enterprise Risk
damage the trust of patients and customers.
Owner, management of the risk takes a pragmatic approach to
Context information sharing, streamlining risk identification and
escalation while ensuring ownership of risk mitigation stays with
Research involving animals can raise ethical concerns. In many
the business.
cases, however, research involving animals is the only way to
investigate the effects of a potential new medicine in a living We have an established Office of Animal Welfare, Ethics and
body other than in humans. Animal research provides critical Strategy and Risk (OAWESR), led by our Chief Veterinary
information about the causes and mechanisms of diseases and Officer, which oversees and ensures the humane and
therefore remains a vital part of our research. We continually responsible care and use of animals, the conduct of ethical
seek ways in which we can minimise our use of animals in reviews and independent scientific reviews of animal studies,
research, development, and testing, while complying with and advocates for the application of non-animal alternatives.
regulatory requirements and reducing the impact on the The OAWESR provides a framework of animal welfare
animals used. Human subject research is critical to assessing governance; defines and provides oversight for animal care and
and demonstrating the safety and efficacy of our use programmes; promotes the replacement, refinement, and
investigational products or further evaluating our products once reduction of animal use in research; conducts quality
they have been approved. assessments and manages a programme of due diligence of
external animal research.
This research includes clinical trials in healthy volunteers and
patients and adheres to regulations and high ethical, medical, Ensuring we implement and maintain proper data governance
and scientific standards. We disclose the results of this research controls remains an important priority, especially as our
externally regardless of whether they reflect positively or scientific strategy is evolving to take advantage of the breadth
negatively on our products, so that the scientific community can of our data (for example: genomics and artificial intelligence
learn from the outcomes of our research. We also work with and machine learning (AI/ML)). We focus on building data
human biological samples which are fundamental to the integrity, privacy and usage controls into our internal control
discovery, development, and safety monitoring of our products. framework. Quality assurance teams conduct audits to provide
independent business monitoring of our internal controls. Our
We are committed to managing human biological samples in
R&D organisation maintains and controls pre-publication
accordance with relevant laws, regulations, and ethical
procedures to guard against public disclosure before patent
principles, and in a manner that respects the interests of sample
applications are filed. In addition, because a lack of data
donors. Data is pivotal to our R&D strategy, and we are
integrity in preparing patent application data and information
maximising the use of data to serve patients. Governing our
can lead to a loss of patent protection, legal experts
data in accordance with relevant laws, regulations, contractual
collaborate with R&D to support the review process for new
obligations, expectations, and our culture across data ethics,
patent applications. Our R&D organisation also collaborates
privacy, information and cyber security, and data integrity is
with legal experts throughout the development of our assets to
essential.
take account of any relevant third-party patent rights.
291Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Environment, health, and safety (EHS)
Risk definition Function leaders ensure that the EHS control framework is
implemented effectively in their respective business area, that it
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to ensure
is compliant with applicable laws and regulations, and that it is
appropriate controls and governance of the organisation's
adequately resourced, maintained, communicated, and
assets, facilities, infrastructure, and business activities, including
monitored. Every employee and qualified contractor acting on
execution of hazardous activities, handling of hazardous
behalf of GSK is personally responsible for ensuring that they
materials, or release of substances harmful to the environment
follow all applicable local standard operating procedures. Our
that disrupts supply or harms employees, third parties or the
risk-based, proactive approach is articulated in our global EHS
environment.
policy and detailed in our global EHS standards, against which
Risk impact we audit all our operations to ensure compliance. We ensure
hazards are appropriately controlled through the design of
Failure to manage EHS risks could lead to significant harm to
facilities, equipment and systems. These rigorous procedures,
people, the environment and the communities in which we
when applied correctly, put effective barriers in place to protect
operate, fines, inability to meet stakeholder expectations and
employees’ health and safety.
regulatory requirements, litigation or regulatory action, and
damage to the company’s reputation, which could materially We have refreshed and rebranded the 12 Life Saving Rules
and adversely affect our financial results. across GSK, with global initiatives to embed the rules in daily
operations. Our Safety Leadership Experience training
Context continues across GSK, using incident knowledge to enhance
GSK is subject to the health, safety and environmental laws of learnings and build a strong, collaborative safety culture. Our
various jurisdictions. These laws impose duties to protect Contractor Safety assessment is being deployed with the
people, the environment and the communities in which we support of an external expert review of current GSK contractor
operate. management. We are improving driver safety through safer
cars and enhanced training.
Mitigating actions
The GSK Leadership Team is responsible for EHS governance
and risk oversight. They ensure there is an effective control
framework ‘in-place’ and ‘in-use’ to manage the EHS risks,
impacts, and legal compliance issues in each of our businesses.
This includes assigning responsibility to senior managers for
providing and maintaining our controls and for ensuring that
tiered monitoring and governance processes are in place within
their business units.
Information and cyber security
Risk definition Context
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to ensure The external environment continues to be extremely
appropriate controls and governance to identify, protect, challenging, making it hard to keep pace with increasingly
detect, respond, and recover from cyber incidents through sophisticated cyber security threats. Factors include increased
unauthorised access, disclosure, theft, unavailability or geopolitical conflict and digital nationalism, rising frequency
corruption of GSK's information, key systems, or technology and severity of data breaches and the growing capability and
infrastructure in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, sophistication of cyber threat actors with additional tools like
industry standards, internal controls and requirements. generative AI to propagate their attacks. GSK’s business relies
on operating a highly connected information network of internal
Risk impact
and external systems which hold confidential research and
Failure to adequately protect our information and systems development, manufacturing, commercial, workforce and
against cyber security threats may cause harm to patients, financial data. This means that our systems and information
workforce and customers, disruption to our business and/or loss have been and will continue to be targeted by cyber security
of commercial or strategic advantage, regulatory sanction, or threat actors. Acceleration in the use of digital, data and
damage to our reputation. analytics, AI/ML and cloud computing capabilities to drive
GSK’s pipeline, performance and productivity requires us to
continuously adapt and strengthen our controls and defensive
capabilities.
292Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Information and cyber security continued
GSK also relies on third-party contractors, partners and Information and Cyber Security Governance
suppliers who face similar cyber security threats, which
The Chief Digital and Technology Officer (CDTO) leads the
emphasises our focus on third party risk management.
Digital and Technology function, which includes the CISO and
Additionally, hybrid working environments create a larger and
Cyber Security Office. The CDTO is the enterprise risk owner for
more complex attack surface for cyber security threat actors to
our Information and Cyber Security principal risk, responsible for
exploit. With employees accessing company resources from
managing and reporting on the risk, and the enterprise risk plan.
various locations and devices, new threats and vulnerabilities
This plan includes a description of the risk, its context, our
could arise.
assessment and risk appetite, how we treat the risk and what
Mitigating actions actions we need to take to manage it in line with our corporate
internal control framework. The CISO is responsible for risk
How we manage cyber security risk
coordination across the organisation, developing and
We use our corporate enterprise risk management and internal overseeing the implementation of controls, and monitoring and
control framework to manage and oversee our Information and reporting on the enterprise risk plan. Both the Board and the
Cyber Security principal risk, and we follow our corporate Audit & Risk Committee oversee our cyber security risk. The Risk
governance hierarchy for risk reporting and escalation. Our Oversight and Compliance Council helps the Audit & Risk
Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) heads our Cyber Committee to oversee the cyber security risks, and our
Security Office and is responsible for identifying and putting in strategies to address them. The CISO reports on cyber security
place controls and measures to help GSK mitigate and manage risks throughout the year to the CDTO, Risk Oversight and
cyber security risks. This includes actively monitoring and Compliance Council and the Audit & Risk Committee. This
initiating remediation or other actions to respond to cyber reporting covers, external insights, key risk indicators,
security intelligence and threats. It also includes ongoing management actions, updates on implementing the enterprise
investment in people, process and technology to improve our risk plan, progress on the cyber maturity programme, and
ability to prevent, detect, respond to and recover from any escalations The Cyber Security Office analyses potential cyber
cyber security incidents. We monitor this risk using key risk security incidents, supported by internal experts, and gives
indicators which include tolerance thresholds reported monthly updates to the CISO. The CISO escalates any cyber incidents
to the business and quarterly through the governance channels. with potential for material impact to the Chief Compliance
Officer and the CDTO, who in turn escalates to the GSK
We also have a third-party security risk management
Leadership Team and Company Secretary, triggering review by
programme to assess cyber security risk when selecting and on-
the Disclosure Committee to determine materiality. Any
boarding third parties like external partners and suppliers. We
material cyber security incidents are subsequently escalated to
use widely accepted standards and frameworks to benchmark
the Board and Audit & Risk Committee.
our internal environment and controls and help define our
security objectives and desired security outcomes. While our Cyber Security Awareness, Training and Readiness
standards and frameworks can evolve in response to our
Our cyber security awareness and training programmes
dynamic threat environment, we also rely on external
include phishing simulations, monthly awareness campaigns
frameworks including:
and mandatory annual refreshers for all employees, new hires
–the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and high-risk roles. We run quarterly phishing simulation tests
Cyber Security Framework for measuring the overall cyber and related remedial trainings. We also offer optional training
readiness and maturity and an annual global event. These efforts aim to increase cyber
– the International Organisation for Standardisations (ISO) security awareness and foster a culture that security is
27001/27002 for general information technology controls everyone’s responsibility. Also, we run periodic crisis simulation
–Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) for assessment of internal controls exercises for targeted functions to test our response to cyber
security incidents.
We also draw on third-party consultants' expertise in processes
for assessing, identifying and managing cyber security risks. This Compliance with various governmental cyber security
year, our cyber security maturity programme, designed to regulations
reduce the risk of our data being compromised, has improved Our Cyber Security Office, guided by our General Counsel,
our security posture and our ability to detect, protect against, works to stay abreast of emerging government regulations,
respond to and recover from malicious cyber activity. We also trends, and compliance expectations regarding cyber security.
created an AI Governance Council, which includes the CISO, to As new regulatory guidance becomes available (including the
assess and manage information security risks around adopting U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's rules on cyber
and scaling up AI at GSK. security related disclosures), we respond with remedial
compliance-related actions.
293Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Supply continuity
Risk definition Our supply chain imperatives focus on accelerating innovation
with the use of technology and data to transform the way we
The risk that GSK or our third parties potentially fail to deliver a
manufacture and supply our medicines and vaccines. We drive
continuous supply of compliant finished product or respond
our competitive advantage through our long-term strategic
effectively to a crisis incident in a timely manner to recover and
partnership with R&D. We focus our talent on the skills needed
sustain critical supply operations.
for the future, addressing skills in new technologies and
Risk impact modalities. We have brought the Vaccines and Medicines
supply chains together into one Global Supply Chain
.We recognise how important the continuity of supply of our
organisation to leverage the benefits of our highly skilled
products is to the patients who rely on them. Supply disruption
workforce. Continual business monitoring is in place to assess
can lead to:
the sector-wide risk of the spread of industrial relations
–Product shortages and product recalls challenges arising from global cost of living pressures. Keeping
our patients supplied with their medicines is our priority.
–Regulatory intervention
–Reputational harm Mitigating activities
–Lost sales revenue
Risk management
Consequently, we need sophisticated end-to-end supply chain
Our Medicines and Vaccine supply chains are set up to ensure
management with robust crisis management and business
sustainable global supply. The GSK Internal Control Framework
continuity plans in place to respond.
drives our approach to risk management, and it has been
Context designed to identify emerging new risks and support clear
decision making. Risk oversight is managed through a hierarchy
We operate our supply chains in a continually evolving, highly of Risk Management and Compliance Boards to assure risk
regulated environment. There is no single set of global mitigation (including identifying new and emerging threats).
regulations which governs the manufacture and distribution of
medicines, and we must adhere to the requirements in all those Inventory management
markets in which we licence, sell or manufacture our products. Supply chain governance committees in Medicines and
We rely upon our internal Quality Management System and our Vaccines closely monitor the inventory status and delivery of our
Internal Control Framework to ensure we maintain our licence products. Our core commercial cycle links supply chain
to operate. Our complex end-to-end supply chains often involve forecasting with our commercial ambition. It is designed to
third party suppliers, from Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient reduce the risk of demand fluctuations and manage temporary
(API) manufacturers and raw material suppliers through to shortages in supply. We periodically review each node of our
Third Party Logistics Providers and contract engineering firms. supply chains to ensure we hold adequate safety stocks, whilst
We have integrated risk management into our sourcing and balancing working capital. We put particular emphasis on
day to day business processes, with emphasis on our Third- mitigating supply risks associated with medically-critical, high-
Party oversight. External factors continued to challenge supply revenue products and new product launches, for example using
continuity in 2023. The difficulties with sourcing bioscience dual sourcing for key products or APIs. We use the monthly
materials has eased through the year. Performance Management Process across our supply chains to
monitor business activity and highlight adverse trends in supply,
There is a new constraint with third party sterile manufacturing
operations, budget and workforce capability.
capacity which increases global competition for contract
manufacturing operations. We continue to operate our global Business continuity
supply chains in a rapidly changing geopolitical environment.
Crisis management and business continuity plans are in place
Increasing nationalism and friction between the US and China
across our supply chains, which include authorised response
creates divergence from global supply strategy. We have
and recovery strategies, key areas of responsibility and clear
reacted to this by designing supply routes that de-risk sourcing
communication routes. We regularly use business continuity
decisions and use business continuity planning to mitigate and
plans to manage potential supply disruptions. Our
maintain supply continuity, e.g. dual sourcing for materials and
manufacturing sites have crisis management plans in place.
adapting supply routes to meet regulatory expectations for
These plans are tested at least annually to ensure maintenance
both the commercial and late stage clinical supply chains.
of core skills in crisis management.
294Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Shareholder information
Share capital and control
Details of our issued share capital and the number of shares Articles of Association on the right to be a holder of, and to vote
held in Treasury as at 31 December 2023 can be found in Note in respect of, the company’s shares.
37 to the financial statements, ‘Share capital and share
premium account’.
Interests in voting rights
Our ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange
(LSE) and are also quoted on the New York Stock Exchange Other than as stated below, as far as as the company is aware,
(NYSE) in the form of American Depositary Shares (ADS). Each there are no persons with significant direct or indirect holdings
ADS represents two Ordinary Shares. For details of listed debt in the company. Information provided to the company pursuant
and where it is listed refer to Note 30 to the financial to the FCA's Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules (DTR
statements, ‘Net debt’. 5) is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the
company’s website, gsk.com.
Holders of Ordinary Shares and ADS are entitled to receive
dividends (when declared) and a copy of the company’s The company has received notifications in accordance with
Annual Report (if elected). They are also entitled to attend, DTR 5 of the following notifiable interests in the voting rights in
speak, appoint proxies and exercise voting rights at general the company’s issued share capital:
meetings of the company
31 December 2023 23 February 2024
There are no restrictions on the transfer, or limitations on the
Percentage Percentage
holding, of Ordinary Shares and ADS and no requirements to No. of of total No. of of total
obtain approval prior to any transfers. No Ordinary Shares or voting voting voting voting
ADS carry any special rights with regard to control of the rights rights(1) rights rights(1)
company and there are no restrictions on voting rights. Major BlackRock, Inc. 231,975,400(2) 5.69 % 231,975,400(2) 5.69 %
shareholders have the same voting rights per share as all other Dodge & Cox 253,464,108 (3) 5.04 % 253,464,108(3) 5.04 %
shareholders. There are no known arrangements under which
(1) Percentage of total voting rights at the date of notification to the
financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the
company.
shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share
(2)Comprising an indirect interest in 229,134,683 Ordinary Shares and a
transfers or on voting rights. holding of 2,840,717 Qualifying Financial Instruments (Contracts for
Difference).
Shares acquired through the Group’s employee share plans
(3)Comprising an indirect interest in 99,377,874 Ordinary Shares and
rank equally with the other shares in issue and have no special
154,086,234 ADS.
rights. The trustees of our Employee Share Ownership Plan
Trusts have waived their rights to dividends on shares held by
The company has not acquired or disposed of any interests in
those Trusts.
its own shares during the period under review.
Demerger of Haleon and Share Consolidation
Share buy-back programme
As reported previously, on 18 July 2022 the company completed
The Board has been authorised to issue and allot Ordinary
the demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business from the
Shares under Article 9 of the company’s Articles of Association.
Group. More details can be found on www.gsk.com/en-gb/
The power under Article 9 and the authority for the company to
haleon-cmd-to-demerger-archive. On 19 July 2022,
make purchases of its own shares are subject to shareholder
shareholders received four new GSK plc shares of nominal value
authorities which are sought on an annual basis at our Annual
of 31 1/4 pence each for every five GSK plc shares of nominal
General Meeting (AGM). Any shares purchased by the
value of 25 pence each.
company may be cancelled, held as Treasury shares or used for
The Group reduced its share holding in Haleon plc during the satisfying share options and grants under the Group's employee
course of the financial year ended 31 December 2023 to 7.4%. share plans.
More information can be found in Note 22 Current Equity
Our programme covers purchases of shares for cancellation or
Investments. On 17 January 2024, the Group reduced its
to be held as Treasury shares, in accordance with the authority
shareholding by 3.2%, GSK now holds approximately 385 million
renewed by shareholders at the AGM in May 2023, when the
ordinary shares in Haleon plc representing over 4.0% of the
company was authorised to purchase a maximum of just over
issued share capital of Haleon. More information can be found
409 million shares.
in Note 48 Post Balance Sheet Events.
In determining specific share repurchase levels, the company
Exchange controls and other limitations
considers the development of free cash flow during the year. No
affecting holders Treasury shares have been purchased since 2014. Details of
shares purchased, cancelled, held as Treasury shares and
Other than certain economic sanctions, which may be in force
subsequently transferred from Treasury to satisfy awards under
from time to time, there are currently no applicable laws,
the Group’s employee share plans are disclosed in Note 37 to
decrees or regulations in force in the UK restricting the import or
the financial statements, ‘Share capital and share premium
export of capital or restricting the remittance of dividends or
account’. The company confirms that it does not currently
other payments to holders of the company’s shares who are
intend to make any market purchases in 2024. The company
non-residents of the UK.
will continue to review the potential for future share buy-backs
Similarly, other than certain economic sanctions which may be in line with its usual annual cycle and subject to return and
in force from time to time, there are no limitations relating only ratings criteria.
to non-residents of the UK under English law or the company’s
295Market capitalisation Share price trend in the three years ended
The market capitalisation, based on shares in issue excluding 31 December 2023
Treasury shares, of GSK at 31 December 2023 was £62.5 billion.
At that date, GSK was the 8th largest company by market
capitalisation in the FTSE index.
2023 2022 2021
Share price
£ £ £
At 1 January 14.51 16.25 13.42
At 31 December 14.50 14.38 16.07
Increase/(decrease) (0.06) % (12) % 20 %
High during the year 15.36 18.31 16.19
Low during the year 13.16 12.96 11.91
The table above sets out middle market closing prices. The
company’s share price decreased by (0.06)% in 2023. This
compares with a decrease in the FTSE 100 index of 12% during
the year. The middle market closing share price on 23 February
2024 was £16.72 .
£KU US$
Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Shareholder information continued
Share capital and control continued
19
68
18
63
17
59
16
54
14
50
13
45
12
41
11
36
10
32
8
27
7
Jan-21 Jan-22 Jan-23
UK Share Price (UK£)
US Share Price (US$)
Nature of trading market
The following table sets out, for the periods indicated, the high and low middle market closing prices for the company’s Ordinary
Shares on the LSE and for the ADS on the NYSE.
Ordinary Shares ADS
UK£ per share US$ per share
High Low High Low
February 2024* 16.78 15.86 33.31 31.90
January 2024 15.82 14.80 40.10 37.51
December 2023 14.62 14.19 37.10 35.88
November 2023 14.26 13.82 34.17 35.99
October 2023 15.21 14.33 37.56 34.56
September 2023 13.36 13.74 38.07 34.41
Quarter ended 31 December 2023 15.21 13.82 37.56 34.17
Quarter ended 30 September 2023 15.36 13.16 38.07 33.81
Quarter ended 30 June 2023 15.23 13.46 38.32 33.60
Quarter ended 31 March 2023 15.03 13.77 36.43 33.50
Quarter ended 31 December 2022 14.92 13.20 37.92 30.00
Quarter ended 30 September 2022 18.23 12.96 44.53 28.67
Quarter ended 30 June 2022 18.31 16.72 47.70 41.98
Quarter ended 31 March 2022 17.27 15.01 47.66 40.17
Year ended 31 December 2021 16.19 13.80 44.44 38.13
Year ended 31 December 2020 14.68 12.92 39.17 33.42
Year ended 31 December 2019 18.19 14.36 47.32 37.83
* to 23 February 2024
296Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Shareholder information continued
Analysis of shareholdings at 31 December 2023
Number of % of total % if total
accounts accounts shares Number of shares
Holding of shares
Up to 1,000 46,607 75.48 0.32 13,747,981
1,001 to 5,000 11,313 18.32 0.55 23,914,101
5,001 to 100,000 2,843 4.60 1.21 52,308,743
100,001 to 1,000,000 654 1.06 5.31 229,085,155
Over 1,000,000 328 0.53 92.60 3,993,090,003
61,745 100.00 100.00 4,312,145,983
Held by
Institutional and corporate holders 2,153 3.49 61.86 2,667,435,551
Individuals and other corporate bodies 59,590 96.51 13.86 597,606,148
Guaranty Nominees Limited (ADR programme) 1 0.00 19.71 850,036,115
Held as Treasury shares by GSK 1 0.00 4.57 197,068,169
61,745 100.00 100.00 4,312,145,983
JP Morgan Chase Bank NA is the Depositary for the company’s American Depositary Receipt (ADR) programme. The company’s
ADS are listed on the NYSE. Ordinary Shares representing the company’s ADR programme, which is managed by the Depositary,
are registered in the name of Guaranty Nominees Limited. At 23 February 2024, Guaranty Nominees Limited held 832,929,801
Ordinary Shares representing 20.23% of the issued share capital (excluding Treasury shares).
At 23 February 2024, the number of holders of Ordinary Shares in the US was 842 with holdings of 689,588 Ordinary Shares, and
the number of registered holders of ADS was 15,511 with holdings of 416,464,900 ADS. Certain of these Ordinary Shares and ADS
were held by brokers or other nominees. As a result, the number of holders of record or registered holders in the US is not
representative of the number of beneficial holders or of the residence of beneficial holders.
Dividends
The company pays dividends quarterly and continues to return (3)Adjusted for the Share Consolidation (2022 only; prior years have not
cash to shareholders through its dividend policy. Dividends been adjusted).
remain an essential component of total shareholder return and (4)The Q4 2023 ordinary dividend receivable by ADS holders will be
calculated based on the exchange rate on 9 April 2024. The cumulative
GSK recognises the importance of dividends to shareholders.
dividend receivable by ADS holders for Q1, Q2 and Q3 2023 was £1.06.
On 23 June 2021, at the GSK Investor Update, GSK set out that
from 2022 a progressive dividend policy will be implemented The expected dividend for 2024 is 60p per Ordinary Share.
guided by a 40 to 60 percent pay-out ratio through the
Details of the dividends declared, the amounts and the
investment cycle. The dividend policy, the total expected cash
payment dates are given in Note 16 to the financial statements,
distribution, and the respective dividend pay-out ratios for GSK
‘Dividends’.
remain unchanged.
2024 Dividend calendar
Dividends per share
Ex-dividend ADS Ex-
Quarter date dividend date Record date Payment date
The table below sets out the dividend per share and per ADS
for the last five years. The dividend per ADS is translated into Q4 2023 22 February 22 February 23 February 11 April
2024 2024 2024 2024
US dollars at applicable exchange rates.
Q1 2024 16 May 16 May 17 May 11 July
Year pence US$(1) 2024 2024 2024 2024
2023 58(2) -(4) Q2 2024 15 August 16 August 16 August 10 October
202144 202145 202145 2024
2022 61.25(3) 2.00
Q3 2024 November November November 9 January
2021 80 2.16 2024 2024 2024 2025
2020 80 2.12 Q4 2024 20 February 21 February 21 February 10 April
2019 80 2.01 2025 2025 2025 2025
(1) An annual fee of $0.03 per ADS (or $0.0075 per ADS per quarter) will be
charged by the Depositary. The amounts shown are the dividends paid
per ADS before the annual fee is charged.
(2)Dividends declared and paid in respect of 2023 were 14p per share for Q1
2023, 14p per share for Q2 2023 and 14p per share for Q3 2023. A
dividend of 16p per share has been declared for Q4 2023.
297Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Shareholder information continued
Financial calendar 2024
Event Date Results announcements
Quarter 1 results announcement 1 May 2024 Results announcements are issued to the LSE and are available
Annual General Meeting 8 May 2024 on its news service. They are also sent to the US Securities and
Quarter 2 results announcement 31 July 2024 Exchange Commission (SEC) and the NYSE, issued to the media
and made available on our website.
Quarter 3 results announcement 30 October 2024
Preliminary/Quarter 4 Results announcement 5 February 2025 Financial reports
Annual Report publication February/March 2024
The company publishes an Annual Report which is made
Annual Report distribution March 2024 available on our website from the date of publication.
Shareholders may elect to receive notification by email of the
Information about the company, including the share and ADS publication of Annual Reports by registering on
price, is available on our website at gsk.com. Information made www.shareview.co.uk, and may also elect to receive a printed
available on the website does not constitute part of this Annual copy of the Annual Report by contacting our registrar, Equiniti
Report. Limited.
Stock Exchange announcement notifications
Copies of previous Annual Reports are available on our website.
We provide shareholders with a service to receive automatic Printed copies can also be obtained from our registrar (see
email notifications when we publish a stock exchange page 301 for the contact details).
announcement. To receive email notifications, please sign up
for announcements at gsk.com in the Investors section.
Annual General Meeting 2024
Our Annual General Meeting (AGM) will be held at 2.30pm (UK ADS holders wishing to attend the meeting electronically should
time) on Wednesday, 8 May 2024 at the Royal Lancaster refer to the AGM Notice for details on how to request a proxy
London, Lancaster Terrace, London W2 2TY and will also be appointment from the Depositary, JP Morgan Chase Bank NA.
broadcast live for you to join electronically. This will enable them to attend, ask questions and vote
electronically on the business to be transacted at the meeting.
The AGM is the company’s principal forum for communication
with private shareholders. In addition to the formal AGM ADS holders are reminded that if they do not instruct the
business, there will be a presentation by the CEO on the Depositary as to the way in which the shares represented by
performance of the Group and its future development. There their ADS should be voted by completing and returning the
will be an opportunity for questions to be asked of the Board voting card provided by the Depositary, their shares will not be
and Chairs of the Board’s Committees will be available to take voted.
questions relating to their roles.
Documents on display
Further details on how to access the AGM electronically or
The Articles of Association of the company and Directors’
attend in person, ask questions and vote, can be found in the
service contracts or, where applicable, letters of appointment
notice of Annual General Meeting 2024 (AGM Notice) which
between Directors and the company or any of its subsidiaries
will be made available on our website at gsk.com on or around
(and any side letters relating to severance terms and pension
25 March 2024.
arrangements) are available for inspection at the company’s
Investors holding shares through a nominee service should registered office and will be made available for inspection at
arrange with that service for them to be appointed as a proxy in the AGM.
respect of their shareholding to attend and vote at the meeting
electronically.
298Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Shareholder information continued
Tax information for shareholders
A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax Inheritance tax
consequences for holders of shares and ADS who are citizens of
Individual (UK-domiciled or otherwise) shareholders may be
the UK or the US is set out below. It is not a complete analysis of
liable to UK inheritance tax on the transfer of shares or ADS.
all the possible tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or
Exposure to a UK inheritance tax charge typically occurs on the
sale of these securities. It is intended only as a general guide.
death of the asset owner. However, transfers of shares (other
Holders are advised to consult their advisers with respect to the
than commercial sales) within seven years of death remain
tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of their
relevant to any inheritance tax exposure at death. Further,
shares or ADS and the consequences under state and local tax
transfers to a trust arrangement during lifetime can give rise to
laws in the US and the implications of the current UK/US tax
an immediate inheritance tax charge.
conventions.
Tax may be charged on the amount by which the value of the
US holders of ADS generally will be treated as the owners of the
shareholder’s estate is reduced as a result of any transfer by
underlying shares for the purposes of the current UK/US double
way of lifetime gift or other disposal at less than full market
taxation conventions relating to income and gains (Income Tax
value. In the case of a bequest on death, tax may be charged
Convention), estate and gift taxes (Estate and Gift Tax
on the value of the shares at the date of the shareholder’s
Convention), and for the purposes of the Internal Revenue Code
death. Where an exposure to UK inheritance tax and US estate
of 1986, as amended.
or gift tax exists, careful planning must be undertaken to
UK shareholders understand the opportunity to utilise the US/UK Estate and Gift
Double Tax Convention to manage tax credits and avoid
This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that
double taxation.
holds shares as capital assets.
The overall exposure will be dependent on the specific
Taxation of dividends
circumstances of each situation and it is also important to note
For the 2023/24 UK tax year, UK resident individuals are that tax charges may arise in other jurisdictions. Bespoke advice
entitled to a dividend tax allowance of up to £1,000, so that the tailored to an individual’s personal circumstances should
first £1,000 of dividends received in a tax year will be free of tax. therefore be obtained from a tax professional.
Dividends in excess of this allowance will be taxed at 8.75% for
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax
basic rate taxpayers, 33.75% for higher rate taxpayers and
39.35% for additional rate taxpayers. Note that from 6 April UK stamp duty and/or stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) will,
2024 the dividend allowance will be reduced to £500. subject to certain exemptions, be payable on the transfer of
shares at a rate of 0.5% (rounded up to the nearest £5 in the
UK resident shareholders that are corporation taxpayers should
case of stamp duty) of the consideration for the transfer.
note that dividends payable on ordinary shares are generally
Notwithstanding this, provided that an instrument is executed in
entitled to exemption from corporation tax.
pursuance of the agreement that gave rise to the charge to
Taxation of capital gains SDRT and that instrument is stamped within six years of the
agreement (including being stamped as exempt) any SDRT
UK resident shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on
charge should be cancelled and any SDRT which has already
the disposal of shares or ADS.
been paid will be repaid. Where listed shares are transferred to
For disposals by individuals in the 2023/24 UK tax year, a a company connected to the transferor the chargeable
taxable capital gain accruing on a disposal of shares or ADS consideration will be deemed to be not less than the market
will be taxed at 10% for basic rate taxpayers, or 20% if, after all value of the shares transferred. This market value override also
allowable deductions, the individual’s taxable income for the applies where non-listed shares are transferred to a company
year exceeds the basic rate income tax banding. Note this is connected to the transferor where the consideration includes an
following the use of any exemptions available to the individual issue of shares.
taxpayer such as the annual exempt amount.
US shareholders
Corporation taxpayers may be entitled to an indexation
This summary only applies to a shareholder (who is a citizen or
allowance which applies to reduce capital gains to the extent
resident of the US or a domestic corporation or a person that
that such gains arise due to inflation. Indexation allowance may
is otherwise subject to US federal income tax on a net income
reduce a chargeable gain but will not create an allowable loss.
basis in respect of the shares or ADS) that holds shares or ADS
For assets acquired on or before 1 January 2018, legislation in
as capital assets, is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes
the Finance Act 2018 freezes the level of indexation allowance
and does not hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession
that is given in calculating a company’s chargeable gains at
or vocation that is carried on in the UK through a branch or
the value that would apply to the disposal of an asset in
agency.
December 2017. For assets acquired from 1 January 2018
onwards, legislation in the Finance Act 2018 removes any The summary also does not address the tax treatment of
indexation allowance on disposal. holders that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-
exempt entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities or
currencies, persons that hold shares or ADS as part of an
integrated investment (including a ‘straddle’) comprised of a
share or ADS and one or more other positions, and persons that
own (directly, indirectly or constructively) 10% or more of the
company’s stock (by vote or value), nor does it address tax
treatment that may be applicable as a result of international
income tax treaties.
299Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Shareholder information continued
Tax information for shareholders continued
Taxation of dividends Information reporting and backup withholding
The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or
source dividend income for US tax purposes. It is not eligible for ADS, paid within the US or through certain US-related financial
the dividend received deduction allowed to US corporations. intermediaries, are subject to information reporting and may be
Dividends on ADS are payable in US dollars; dividends on subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a
Ordinary Shares are payable in sterling. Dividends paid in corporation or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer
sterling will be included in income in the US dollar amount identification number and certifies that no loss of exemption
calculated by reference to the exchange rate on the day the has occurred. Non-US holders generally are not subject to
dividends are received by the holder. Subject to certain information reporting or backup withholding, but may be
exceptions for short-term or hedged positions, an individual required to provide a certification of their non-US status in
eligible US holder will be subject to US taxation at a maximum connection with payments received. Any amounts withheld will
federal rate of 23.8% plus applicable state and local tax in be allowed as a refund or credit against a holder’s US federal
respect of qualified dividends. A qualified dividend as defined income tax liability provided the required information is
by the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is a dividend that furnished to the IRS.
meets the following criteria:
Estate and gift taxes
1. It must be issued by a US corporation, a corporation Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is
incorporated in a US possession, or a corporation that is not generally subject to UK inheritance tax. However, a US
eligible for the benefits of a comprehensive income tax treaty holder may be subject to US federal estate and gift tax.
deemed satisfactory, as published by the IRS.
Stamp duty
2.The dividends are not of a type listed by the IRS as dividends
that do not qualify. UK stamp duty and/or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions,
be payable on any transfer of shares to the ADS custodian or
3.The required dividend holding period has been met. The depositary at a rate of 1.5% of the amount of any consideration
shares must have been owned by you for more than 60 days provided (if transferred on sale), or their value (if transferred for
of the ‘holding period’ – which is defined as the 121-day no consideration).
period that begins 60 days before the ex-dividend date, or
the day in which the stock trades without the dividend priced However, no stamp duty or SDRT should be payable on the
in. For example, if a stock’s ex-dividend date is 1 October, the transfer of, or agreement to transfer an ADS or on transfers
shares must be held for more than 60 days in the period within the clearance service. Notwithstanding the above, where
between 2 August and 30 November of that year in order to the clearance service operator has made an election under
count as a qualified dividend. s97A Finance Act 1986, broadly the 1.5% stamp duty/SDRT
charge should not arise on the transfer into the clearance
Dividends that are not qualified are subject to taxation at the service, but transfers to, and within, the system (where there is a
US federal graduated tax rates, at a maximum rate of 40.8%. change in beneficial ownership) would attract a 0.5% charge.
Some types of dividends are automatically excluded from being
qualified dividends, even if they meet the other requirements. Demerger and share consolidation
These include (but are not limited to):
A summary of certain UK and US tax consequences in respect
–Capital gains distributions of the demerger of Haleon plc and the consolidation of the
–Dividends on bank deposits company's share capital, relevant to the company’s
shareholders who are resident (or, in the case of individuals,
–Dividends held by a corporation in an Employee Stock
resident and domiciled) in the UK for UK tax purposes or who
Ownership Plan (ESOP)
are citizens of or resident in the US for US tax purposes, is set
–Dividends paid by tax-exempt corporations.
out in Part 6 of the circular in relation to the Demerger and the
US state and local tax rates on qualified and non-qualified Share Consolidation published on 1 June 2022 (Circular) (pages
dividends may vary and would be assessed in addition to the 83 to 89). The Circular, along with other information regarding
federal tax rates communicated above. the demerger and share consolidation can be found at gsk.com
in the demerger section.
Taxation of capital gains
Further information on the tax base cost allocation to assist UK
Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax,
shareholders apportion their base cost between their GSK plc
but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the
shares and Haleon plc shares for UK capital gains tax purposes
sale or other disposal of shares or ADS. Such gains will be long-
following the demerger, including a worked example, can be
term capital gains (subject to reduced rates of taxation for
found in the Tax section at gsk.com in the demerger section.
individual holders) if the shares or ADS were held for more than
one year, from the date the shares were vested/released. Short-
term capital gains can be subject to taxation of rates of up to
40.8%, whereas long-term capital gains may be subject to rates
of up to 23.8%. State and local tax rates on capital gains may
also apply.
300Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Other statutory disclosures
Shareholder services and contacts
Registrar
The company’s registrar is:
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA
www.shareview.co.uk
Tel: +44 (0)371 384 2991*
Equiniti provides a range of services for shareholders:
Service What it offers How to participate
Dividend Reinvestment Plan As an alternative to receiving cash dividends you may A DRIP election form, Terms and Conditions and
(DRIP) choose to reinvest your dividends to buy more GSK shares. information on fees can be downloaded from
www.shareview.co.uk or requested by contacting Equiniti.
Dividend payment direct to All dividends are paid directly into your bank or building A dividend bank mandate form can be downloaded from
your bank account (bank society account. To receive your cash dividends, you must www.shareview.co.uk or requested by contacting Equiniti.
mandate) provide Equiniti with your bank or building society account
details. This is a quick and secure method of payment.
Dividend payment direct to Equiniti can convert your dividend into your local currency More information on the Overseas Payment Service
bank account for overseas and send it direct to your local bank account. The (including information on fees) can be found at
shareholders (Overseas Overseas Payment Service is available in approximately www.shareview.co.uk or by contacting Equiniti.
Payment Service) 100 countries worldwide.
Electronic communications Shareholders may elect to receive electronic notifications Please register at www.shareview.co.uk.
of company communications including our Annual Report,
dividend payments, dividend confirmations and the
availability of online voting for all general meetings. Each
time GSK publishes shareholder documents you will receive
an email containing a link to the document or relevant
website.
Shareview portfolio service This enables you to create a free online portfolio to view Please register at www.shareview.co.uk.
your share balance and movements, update your address
and dividend payment instructions and register your votes
for our general meetings.
Deduplication of If you receive duplicate copies of mailings, you may have Please contact Equiniti.
publications or mailings more than one account. Please contact Equiniti and they will
arrange for your accounts to be merged into one for your
convenience and to avoid waste and unnecessary costs.
Share dealing service† Shareholders may trade shares, either held in certificated More information on the share dealing service (including
(please note that market form or in our Corporate Sponsored Nominee, online, by information on fees) can be found at
trading hours are from telephone or via postal dealing service provided by www.shareview.co.uk/dealing
8.00am to 4.30pm UK time, Equiniti Financial Services Limited. For online transactions, please log on to:
Monday to Friday (excluding www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.
public holidays in England
and Wales)) For telephone transactions, please call: 0345 603 7037 (in
the UK) or +44 (0)345 603 7037 (outside the UK).
Lines are open from 8.00am to 4.30pm UK time, Monday
to Friday (excluding UK public holidays).
For postal transactions, please call: 0371 384 2991* to
request a dealing form.
Corporate Sponsored This is a convenient way to manage your shares without An application form can be requested from
Nominee Account requiring a share certificate. The service provides a facility www.shareview.co.uk or by contacting Equiniti.
for you to hold your shares in a nominee account
sponsored by the company. You will continue to receive
dividend payments and can attend and vote at the
company’s general meetings. Shareholders’ names do not
appear on the publicly available share register and the
service is free to join.
Individual Savings Accounts Equiniti Financial Services Limited provide the EQi Flexible Details (including information on fees) are available from
(ISAs)† ISA to hold GSK shares. www.eqi.co.uk or can be requested by calling the Equiniti
Customer Experience Team on 0345 0700 720. Lines are
open 8:00am to 5:30pm, UK time Monday to Friday
(excluding UK public holidays).
* Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, UK time Monday to Friday (excluding public holidays in England and Wales). Please use the country code when
dialling from outside the UK.
† The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity. Advice on share dealing should
be obtained from a stockbroker or independent financial adviser.
301Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Other statutory disclosures continued
Shareholder services and contacts continued
ADS Depositary Share scam alert
The ADR programme is administered by JPMorgan If you receive an unsolicited telephone call offering to sell or buy
Chase Bank, N.A.: your shares, please take extra care. The caller may be part of a
highly organised financial scam.
Regular Correspondence:
EQ Shareowner Services If you are a UK shareholder, please contact the Financial
P.O. Box 64504 Conduct Authority at www.fca.org.uk/consumers or on its
St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 consumer helpline:
Delivery of Stock Certificates and Overnight Mail: Tel: 0800 111 6768 (in the UK)*
EQ Shareowner Services
Tel: +44 207 066 1000 (outside the UK)*
1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101
Mendota Heights, MN 55120-4100 * Lines are open from 8.00am to 6.00pm, UK time, Monday to Friday,
except UK public holidays, and 9.00am to 1.00pm on Saturdays.
shareowneronline.com/informational/contact-us/
From the US: +1 877 353 1154
From outside the US: +1 651 453 2128 Donating shares to Save the Children
The Depositary also provides Global Invest Direct, a direct ADS In 2013, GSK embarked on an ambitious global partnership with
purchase/sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADS holders. Save the Children to share our expertise and resources with the
For details on how to enrol, please visit www.adr.com or call the aim of finding innovative ways to reduce the number of children
above helpline number to obtain an enrolment pack. dying from preventable diseases.
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which
Contacts
makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating
Investor relations them to Save the Children. Donated shares will be aggregated
Investor relations may be contacted as follows: and sold on behalf of Save the Children who will use the funds
raised to help them reach the above goal.†
UK
To obtain a share donation form, please contact our registrar,
980 Great West Road
Equiniti, which is managing the donation and sale of UK shares
Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS
to Save the Children free of charge.
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
† The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or
US
inducement to engage in an investment activity. Advice on share dealing
2929 Walnut Street should be obtained from a stockbroker or independent financial adviser.
Philadelphia PA 19104
Tel: +1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
Tel: +1 215 751 4000 (outside the US)­
GSK Response Center
Tel: +1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
Tel: +1 215 751 4600 (outside the US)
302Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Other statutory disclosures continued
US law and regulation
A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to the Section 302: Corporate responsibility for
company because our shares are quoted on the NYSE in the
financial reports
form of ADS.
Sarbanes-Oxley requires the CEO and the CFO to complete
NYSE rules formal certifications, confirming that:
In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK –they have each reviewed the Annual Report on Form 20-F;
corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the
–based on their knowledge, the Annual Report on Form 20-F
US, provided that we explain any significant variations. This
contains no material misstatements or omissions;
explanation is contained in our Form 20-F, which can be
accessed from the SEC's EDGAR database or via our website. –based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other
NYSE rules require us to file annual and interim written financial information fairly present, in all material respects,
affirmations concerning our Audit & Risk Committee (ARC) and the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows
our statement on significant differences in corporate as of the dates, and for the periods, presented in the Annual
governance. Report on Form 20-F;
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 –they are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures that ensure that material
Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in
information is made known to them, and have evaluated the
the US, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
effectiveness of these controls and procedures as at the year
Sarbanes-Oxley is a wide-ranging piece of legislation
end, the results of such evaluation being contained in the
concerned largely with financial reporting and corporate
Annual Report on Form 20-F;
governance.
–they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal
As recommended by the SEC, the company has an established
control over financial reporting that provides reasonable
Disclosure Committee. The Committee reports to the CEO, the
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
CFO and to the ARC. It is chaired by the Company Secretary
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes
and its members consist of senior managers from finance, legal,
in accordance with generally accepted accounting
corporate communications and investor relations.
principles;
Where appropriate, external legal counsel, the external –they have disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 20-F any
auditors, our sponsor bank, and internal experts are invited to changes in internal controls over financial reporting during
attend the Disclosure Committee’s meetings periodically. The the period covered by the Annual Report on Form 20-F that
Committee has responsibility for considering the materiality of have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect
information and, on a timely basis, determining the disclosure of materially, the company’s internal control over financial
that information. It has responsibility for the timely filing of reporting; and
reports with the SEC and the formal review of the Annual Report
and the Annual Report on Form 20-F. In 2023, the Committee – they have disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation
met 17 times, including for the purpose of receiving relevant and of internal control over financial reporting, to the external
appropriate training. auditor and the ARC, all significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls
Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Annual Report on Form 20-F over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to affect
contains a statement as to whether a member of the ARC is an adversely the company’s ability to record, process, summarise
audit committee financial expert, as defined in rules under and report financial information, and any fraud (regardless of
Sarbanes-Oxley. Such a statement for the relevant members of materiality) involving persons that have a significant role in
the ARC (Charles Bancroft) is included in the Board Committee the company’s internal control over financial reporting.
information area of the Corporate Governance report on page
The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision
118 and in his biography on page 109.
and with the participation of its management, including the
Additional disclosure requirements arise under section 302 and CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation
section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley in respect of disclosure controls of the Group’s disclosure controls and procedures as at
and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. 31 December 2023.
There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system
of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility
of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the
controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure
controls and procedures can only provide reasonable
assurance of achieving their control objectives.
303Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Other statutory disclosures continued
US law and regulation continued
The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certifications and The Group exports certain medicines to Iran, via sales by non-
report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure US entities that are not subsidiaries of a US entity to a
controls and procedures in March 2024, following which the distributor in Iran pursuant to a specific licence issued by the
certifications will be filed with the SEC as part of our Group’s Office of Foreign Assets Control.
Annual Report on Form 20-F.
The Group does not regularly receive information regarding the
Section 404: Management’s annual report on identity of the distributor's downstream customers and
intermediaries in Iran, and it is possible that these parties
internal control over financial reporting
include entities, such as hospitals and pharmacies, that are
In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of owned directly or indirectly by the Iranian government or by
Sarbanes-Oxley, the following report is provided by persons or entities sanctioned in connection with terrorism or
management in respect of the company’s internal control over proliferation activities.
financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)
under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the As the Group does not regularly receive information regarding
Exchange Act)): the identity of its distributor's downstream customers and
intermediaries it cannot establish the proportion of gross
–Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining revenue or sales potentially attributable to entities affiliated
adequate internal control over financial reporting for the with the Iranian government or parties sanctioned for
Group. Internal control over financial reporting is designed to disclosable activities. As a result, the Group is reporting the
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of entire gross revenues (£16.89 million) and net profits (£8.42
financial reporting and the preparation of financial million) from the Group's sales to Iran in 2023.
statements for external purposes in accordance with IFRS.
Some hospitals or other medical facilities in Lebanon may be
–Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness
affiliated with or controlled by Hezbollah or other groups that
of internal control over financial reporting based on the
are designated by the United States pursuant to Executive
framework, Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013)
Order 13224. Again, the Group does not deal directly with such
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the
hospitals or facilities and instead sells through distributors. The
Treadway Commission (COSO).
Group is unable to establish the proportion of gross revenue or
–There have been no changes in the Group’s internal control
sales potentially attributable to reportable activities. As a result,
over financial reporting during 2023 that have materially
the Group is reporting the entire gross revenues (£6.02 million)
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the
and net losses (£4.2 million) from the Group's sales to Lebanon
Group’s internal control over financial reporting.
in 2023.
–Management has assessed the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting as at 31 December 2023 and In addition to Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act, US law
its conclusion will be filed as part of the Group’s Annual generally restricts dealings by US persons and dealings that
Report on Form 20-F. otherwise are subject to US jurisdiction with certain countries or
–Deloitte LLP, which has audited the consolidated financial territories that are subject to comprehensive sanctions, currently
statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December Crimea, Cuba, the so-called Donetsk People's Republic, Iran,
2023, has also assessed the effectiveness of the Group’s the so-called Luhansk People's Republic, North Korea and Syria,
internal control over financial reporting under Auditing as well as with the Government of Venezuela (though not with
Standard 2201 of the Public Company Accounting Oversight the country of Venezuela as a whole). The Group engages in
Board (United States). Their audit report will be filed with the some activity in certain such jurisdictions having assessed
Group’s Form 20-F. applicable licences and exemptions
Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act While we believe the Group complies with all applicable US
sanctions in all material respects, such laws are complex and
Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to make
continue to evolve rapidly.
specific disclosure in their annual reports of certain types of
dealings with Iran, including transactions or dealings with
government-owned or-controlled entities, as well as dealings
with entities sanctioned for activities related to terrorism or
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, even when those
activities are not prohibited by US law and do not involve US
persons.
304Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Other statutory disclosures continued
Donations to political organisations and political expenditure
To ensure a consistent approach to political contributions As a result, the definitions may cover legitimate business
across the Group, in 2009 a global policy was introduced to activities not in the ordinary sense considered to be political
voluntarily stop all corporate political contributions. donations or political expenditure, nor are they designed to
support any political party or independent election candidate.
In the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2023, the
Group has not made any political donations to EU or non-EU Therefore, notwithstanding our policy, and while we do not
organisations. intend to make donations to any EU political parties or
organisations, nor to incur any EU political expenditure, we
Notwithstanding the introduction of this policy, in accordance
annually seek shareholder authorisation for any inadvertent
with the Federal Election Campaign Act in the US, we continue
expenditure.
to support an employee-operated Political Action Committee
(PAC) that facilitates voluntary political donations by eligible The authority is a precautionary measure to ensure that the
GSK employees. company and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently breach the
legislation.
The PAC is not controlled by GSK. Decisions on the amounts
and recipients of contributions are governed by the PAC Board This authorisation process, for expenditure of up to £100,000
of Directors. Contributions to the PAC are made by each year, dates back to the AGM held in May 2001, following
participating eligible employees exercising their legal right to the introduction of the Political Parties, Elections and
pool their resources and make political contributions, which are Referendums Act 2000. The authority has since been renewed
subject to strict limitations under US law. In 2023, a total of annually.
US$325,750 (2022: US$360,950) was donated to political
organisations by the GSK employee PAC.
English law requires prior shareholder approval for political
contributions to EU political parties and independent election
candidates as well as for any EU political expenditure. The
definitions of political donations, political expenditure and
political organisations used in the legislation are, however, quite
broad. In particular, the definition of EU political organisations
may extend to bodies such as those concerned with policy
review, law reform, the representation of the business
community and special interest groups such as those
concerned with the environment, which the company and its
subsidiaries might wish to support.
305Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies
In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and joint
arrangements, the address of the registered office and effective percentage of equity owned, as at 31 December 2023 are disclosed
below. Unless otherwise stated the share capital disclosed comprises ordinary shares which are indirectly held by GSK plc. The
percentage held by class of share is stated where this is less than 100%. Unless otherwise stated, all subsidiary companies have their
registered office and are tax resident in their country of incorporation.
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries
14245563 Canada Inc. Common 275 Armand-Frappier Boulevard, Laval ON H7V 4A7, Canada
14934792 Canada Inc. Common 100 Milverton Drive, Suite 800, Mississauga ON L5R 4H1, Canada
1506369 Alberta ULC Common 3500 855-2nd Street SW, Calgary AB T2P 4J8, Canada
Action Potential Venture Capital Limited Ordinary GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY,
United Kingdom
Adechsa GmbH (ii) Ordinary c/o PRV Provides Treuhandgesellschaft AG, Dorfstrasse 38, 6341, Baar,
Switzerland
Affinivax, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808,
United States
Allen & Hanburys Limited (ii) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Allen & Hanburys Pharmaceutical Nigeria Limited Ordinary 49, Town Planning Way, Ilupeju, Lagos, Nigeria
Allen Pharmazeutika Gesellschaft m.b.H. Ordinary Wienerbergstraße 7, Wien, 1100, Austria, Austria
Beecham Group p.l.c £0.05 Ordinary B; 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
£0.20 Ordinary A
Beecham Pharmaceuticals (Pte) Limited Ordinary 38 Quality Road, Jurong Industrial Estate, Jurong, 618809, Singapore
Beecham Portuguesa- Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131,
Produtos Farmaceuticos e Quimicos, LDA Alges, Portugal
Beecham S.A. Ordinary Avenue Fleming 20, 1300 Wavre, Belgium
Bellus Health Corp. Common The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange
Street, Wilmington DE 19801, United States
Bellus Health Inc Common 275 Boulevard Armand Frappier, Laval QC H7V 4A7, Canada
Biovesta Ilaçlari Ltd. Sti. (ii) Nominative Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok, 1.Levent, Istanbul, 34394,
Turkey
Cascan GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munich, Bavaria, Germany
Cellzome GmbH Ordinary Meyerhofstrasse 1, 69117, Heidelberg, Germany
Clarges Pharmaceutical Trustees Limited (ii) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Colleen Corporation Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808,
United States
Corixa Corporation Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808,
United States
Dealcyber Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Desarrollo Energia Solar Alternativa S.L. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760,
Madrid, Spain
Duncan Pharmaceuticals Philippines Inc. Common 23rd Floor, The Finance Centre, 26th Street Corner 9th Avenue, Bonifacio
Global City, Taguig City, 1634, Philippines
Etex Farmaceutica Ltda Social Capital Av. Andrés Bello 2457, Costanera Center, Torre 2, Piso 20, Providencia,
Santiago, 7510689, Chile
Glaxo Group Limited Ordinary GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY,
United Kingdom
Glaxo Kabushiki Kaisha (ii) Ordinary 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
Glaxo New Zealand Pension Plan Trustee Limited Ordinary Level 2 E.2, Generator at GridAKL, 12 Madden Street, Wynyard Quarter,
Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
Glaxo Operations UK Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo Properties BV Ordinary Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP, Amersfoort, Netherlands
Glaxo Saudi Arabia Limited Ordinary PO Box 22617, Area No 56 to 73, Warehouse City, First Stage Al Khomrah,
Jeddah 21416, Saudi Arabia
Glaxo Verwaltungs GmbH Ordinary Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munich, Bavaria, Germany
Glaxo Wellcome Farmaceutica, Limitada Ordinary Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131,
Alges, Portugal
Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Ordinary 1 Pioneer Sector 1, Jurong Industrial Estate, Jurong, 628413, Singapore
Glaxo Wellcome Production Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
306Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
Glaxo Wellcome Vidhyasom Limited (in liquidation) (ii) Ordinary 12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan, Bangkok, 10
330, Thailand
Glaxo Wellcome, S.A. Ordinary Poligono Industrial Allendeduero, Avenida de Extremadura, 3, Aranda de
Duero, 09400, Burgos, Spain
Glaxo, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760,
Madrid, Spain
Glaxochem Pte Ltd (iii) Ordinary 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GlaxoSmithKline - Produtos Farmaceuticos, Limitada Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131,
Alges, Portugal
GlaxoSmithKline (Cambodia) Co., Ltd. Ordinary 5th Floor DKSH Building, No.797 Preah Monivong Boulevard (Co, Sangkat
Phsar Deum Thakov, Khan Chamkarmon, Phnom Penh, Cambodia
GlaxoSmithKline (China) Investment Co Ltd Ordinary Room 901, 902, 903, 905, 908, 909 and 910, Unit 901, Floor 9, No. 56 Mid 4th
East Ring Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China
GlaxoSmithKline (China) R&D Company Limited Equity F1-3, No.18 Building, 999 Huanke Road, Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, 201
210, China
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) S.R.L. Ordinary Str. Dr. Nicolae D. Staicovici nr. 2, Opera Center II, etaj 4, sector 5, București,
Romania, 050556
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited Ordinary 12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline (Israel) Ltd Ordinary 25 Basel Street, PO Box 10283, Petach-Tikva, 49002, Israel
GlaxoSmithKline (Private) Limited (ii) Ordinary Unit 3, 20 Anthony Road, Msasa, Harare, Zimbabwe
GlaxoSmithKline (Thailand) Limited Ordinary 12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan, Bangkok, 10
330, Thailand
GlaxoSmithKline AB Ordinary Hemvarnsg. 9, 171 54, Solna, Sweden
GlaxoSmithKline AG Ordinary Talstrasse 3 , 3053 Muenchenbuchsee, Switzerland
GlaxoSmithKline Angola Unipessoal Limitada Quota Luanda, Bairro Petrangol, Estrada de Cacuaco n ° 288, Angola
GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. Ordinary Tucumán 1, piso 4, Buenos Aires, C1049AAA, Argentina
GlaxoSmithKline AS Ordinary Drammensveien 288, Oslo, NO-0283, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary Level 4 , 436 Johnston Street , Abbotsford, Victoria, 3067, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline B.V. Ordinary Van Asch van, Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP Amersfoort, The Netherlands,
Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Beteiligungs GmbH Ordinary Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Kft. Ordinary 2100 Gödöllõ, Homoki Nagy István utca 1, Hungary
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A.S. Ordinary 637 Rue des Aulnois, Saint-Amand Les Eaux, 59230, France
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA Ordinary: Rue de l'Institut 89 B-1330 Rixensart, Belgium
Preference
GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada Quotas Estrada dos Banderiantes, 8464, Rio de Janeiro, 22783-110, Brazil
GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. Common Wilmington Trust SP Services, Inc., 1100 N. Market Street, 4th Floor,
Wilmington DE 19890, United States
GlaxoSmithKline (China) R&D Company Limited Equity F1-3, No.18 Building, 999 Huanke Road, Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, 201
210, China
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) S.R.L. Ordinary Str. Dr. Nicolae D. Staicovici nr. 2, Opera Center II, etaj 4, sector 5, București,
Romania, 050556
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited Ordinary 12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline (Israel) Ltd Ordinary 25 Basel Street, PO Box 10283, Petach-Tikva, 49002, Israel
GlaxoSmithKline (Private) Limited (ii) Ordinary Unit 3, 20 Anthony Road, Msasa, Harare, Zimbabwe
GlaxoSmithKline (Thailand) Limited Ordinary 12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan, Bangkok, 10
330, Thailand
GlaxoSmithKline AB Ordinary Hemvarnsg. 9, 171 54, Solna, Sweden
GlaxoSmithKline AG Ordinary Talstrasse 3, 3053 Muenchenbuchsee, Switzerland
GlaxoSmithKline Angola Unipessoal Limitada Quota Luanda, Bairro Petrangol, Estrada de Cacuaco n ° 288, Angola
GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. Ordinary Tucumán 1, piso 4, Buenos Aires, C1049AAA, Argentina
GlaxoSmithKline AS Ordinary Drammensveien 288, Oslo, NO-0283, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary Level 4 , 436 Johnston Street , Abbotsford, Victoria, 3067, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline B.V. Ordinary Van Asch van, Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP Amersfoort, The Netherlands,
Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Beteiligungs GmbH Ordinary Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Kft. Ordinary 2100 Gödöllõ, Homoki Nagy István utca 1, Hungary
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A.S. Ordinary 637 Rue des Aulnois, Saint-Amand Les Eaux, 59230, France
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA Ordinary: Rue de l'Institut 89 B-1330 Rixensart, Belgium
Preference
307Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada Quotas Estrada dos Banderiantes, 8464, Rio de Janeiro, 22783-110, Brazil
GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. Common Wilmington Trust SP Services, Inc., 1100 N. Market Street, 4th Floor,
Wilmington DE 19890, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Caribbean Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Chile Farmaceutica Limitada Social Capital Av. Andrés Bello 2457, Torre 2, piso 20, Providencia, Santiago, Región
Metropolitana, Chile
GlaxoSmithKline Colombia S.A. Ordinary Avenida El Dorado, #69B-45/Piso 9, Bogota, Colombia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Holding B.V. (ii) Ordinary Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP, Amersfoort, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline doo Beograd-Novi Beograd (in liquidation)Ordinary Milutin Milankovic, 1J, Novi Beograd, Belgrade, 11070, Serbia
GlaxoSmithKline Ecuador S.A. Ordinary Av 10 De Agosto N36-239, y Naciones Unidas, Edificio Electroectuatoriana, 2
do piso, Quito, Ecuador
GlaxoSmithKline El Salvador S.A. de C.V. Ordinary Municipio de San Salvador, Departamento de San Salvador, El Salvador
GlaxoSmithKline EOOD Ordinary 16 Nedelcho Bonchev str., Sofia, Sofiya, 1592, Bulgaria
GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Export Panama S.A. Ordinary Panama City, Republic of Panama, Panama
GlaxoSmithKline Far East B.V. Ordinary Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP, Amersfoort, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Guatemala S.A. Ordinary 3ra. Av. 13-78 Zona 10, Torre Citibank, Nivel 8, Guatemala City, Guatemala
GlaxoSmithKline Holding AS Ordinary Drammensveien 288, Oslo, NO-0283, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc. Common Wilmington Trust SP Services Inc., 1100 North Market Street, 4th Floor,
Wilmington, Delaware, 19890
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Pty Ltd Ordinary Level 4 , 436 Johnston Street , Abbotsford, Victoria, 3067, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline Honduras S.A. Ordinary Tegucigalpa, MDC, Honduras
GlaxoSmithKline IHC Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Nominative Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok, 1.Levent, Istanbul, 34394,
Turkey
GlaxoSmithKline Inc. Class A Common; 100 Milverton Drive, Suite 800, Mississauga ON L5R 4H1, Canada
Class C Preference
GlaxoSmithKline Insurance Ltd. Ordinary c/o Trinity Corporate Services Ltd., Trinity Hall, 43 Cedar Avenue, Hamilton,
Hamilton, HM12, Bermuda
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.2) Limited Ordinary GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY,
United Kingdom
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Development Limited Ordinary GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY,
United Kingdom
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Holdings Limited A Ordinary; GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY,
B Ordinary United Kingdom
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Limited Deferred; GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY,
Ordinary United Kingdom
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Management Limited Ordinary GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY,
United Kingdom
GlaxoSmithKline Investigación y Desarrollo, S.L. Ordinary Severo Ochoa 2 Parque Tecnológico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760, Madrid
Spain
GlaxoSmithKline Investments Pty Ltd Ordinary Level 4, 436 Johnston Street, Abbotsford, Victoria, 3067, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Ordinary 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited Ordinary 9F LS Yongsan Tower, 92 Hangang-daero, Yongsangu, Seoul, 04386,
Korea, Republic of
GlaxoSmithKline Latin America, S.A. Ordinary Panama City, Republic of Panama, Panama
GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ordinary 23/F., Tower 6, The Gateway, 9 Canton Road, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon,
Hong Kong
GlaxoSmithKline Limited (ii) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808,
United States
GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing SpA Ordinary Viale dell’Agricoltura 7, 37135, Verona, Italy
GlaxoSmithKline Maroc S.A. Ordinary 42-44 Angle Bd, Rachidi et Abou Hamed El Glaza, Casablanca, Morocco
GlaxoSmithKline Medical and Healthcare Products Kft Ordinary 1062 Budapest, Andrassy ut 113, Hungary
GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
308Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GlaxoSmithKline Mexico S.A. de C.V. Ordinary A; Av. Real Mayorazgo 130 Piso 20, Colonia Xoco, Alcaldia Benito Juárez,
Ordinary B Ciudad de Mexico, 03330, Mexico
GlaxoSmithKline NZ Limited Ordinary Level 2 E.2, Generator @GridAKL, 12 Madden Street, Wynyard Quarter,
Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
GlaxoSmithKline Oy Ordinary Porkkalankatu 20 A, Helsinki, 00180, Finland
GlaxoSmithKline Peru S.A. Ordinary Av. Víctor Andrés Belaúnde N°147, Vía Principal N°133, Piso 7, Distrito de San
Isidro, Lima, Peru
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S Ordinary Vallensbæk Company House III , Delta Park 37, DK-2665, Valle, Denmark
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH Ordinary Wienerbergstraße 7, Wien, 1100, Austria, Austria
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Kenya Limited Ordinary P.O Box 78392-00507, Likoni Road, Nairobi, Kenya
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Nigeria Limited Ordinary 1 Industrial Avenue, Ilupeju, Ikeja, Lagos, PM B 21218, Nigeria
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Sdn Bhd Ordinary HZ.01, Horizon Penthouse, 1 Powerhouse, 1, Persiaran Bandar Utama, Bandar
Utama, 47800 Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals (Pvt) Ltd Ordinary 121 Galle Road, Kaldemulla, Moratuwa, Sri Lanka
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Costa Rica S.A Ordinary Autopista Florencia del Castillo, kilómetro siete, Oficentro TerraCampus,
edificio uno, cuarto piso, San Diego, Cartago, 30302, Costa Rica
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA Ordinary Avenue Fleming 20, 1300 Wavre, Belgium
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Ukraine LLC Chartered Capital Pavla Tychyny avenue, 1-V, Kiev, 02152, Ukraine
GlaxoSmithKline Philippines Inc Ordinary 23rd Floor, The Finance Centre, 26th Street Corner 9th Avenue, Bonifacio
Global City, Taguig City, 1634, Philippines
GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd Ordinary 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GlaxoSmithKline Puerto Rico, Inc. Common CORPORATION SERVICE COMPANY PUERTO RICO INC.,
c/o RVM Professional Services, LLC, A4 Reparto Mendoza, Humacao,
00791, Puerto Rico
GlaxoSmithKline Republica Dominicana S.A. Ordinary Blue Mall Tower, Floor 23 Ave., Winston Churchill 95, Santo Domingo,
Dominican Republic
GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760,
Madrid, Spain
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. Ordinary Viale dell’Agricoltura 7, 37135, Verona, Italy
GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o. Ordinary Hvezdova 1734/2c, Prague, 4 140 00, Czech Republic
GlaxoSmithKline Services GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Single Member A.E.B.E. Ordinary 266 Kifissias Avenue, Halandri, Athens, 152 32, Greece
GlaxoSmithKline SL LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808,
United States
GlaxoSmithKline SL LP (ii)(viii) Partnership 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline South Africa (Pty) Limited Ordinary Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston 2021,
South Africa
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (iii) Ordinary 12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Tunisia S.A.R.L. Ordinary Immeuble REGUS, Lot B17, Centre Urbain Nord, Tunis, Tunisia
GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Uruguay S.A. Registered Provisory Stock Victor Soliño 349, Montevideo, Montevideo, 11300, Uruguay
GlaxoSmithKline US Trading Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Venezuela C.A. Ordinary calle Altagracia, edificio P&G, piso Mezzanina, torre Torre Sur, Urbanizacion
Sorokaima, La Trinidad, Caracas, 1080, Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of
GlaxoSmithKline Vietnam Limited Liability Company (ii) Equity Capital The Metropolitan, 235 Dong Khoi Street, District 1, 7th Floor Unit 701, Ho Chi
Minh City, Vietnam
GlycoVaxyn AG (In liquidation) Common; Grabenstrasse 3, 8952 Schlieren, Switzerland
Preferred A;
Preferred B;
Preferred C
Groupe GlaxoSmithKline Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
GSK Biopharma Argentina S.A. Nominative Non Tucumán 1, piso 4, Buenos Aires, C1049AAA, Argentina
Endorseable Ordinary
GSK (No.1) Scottish Limited Partnership (viii) Partnership 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 9WJ,
United Kingdom
GSK (No.2) Scottish Limited Partnership (viii) Partnership 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 9WJ,
United Kingdom
GSK (No.3) Scottish Limited Partnership (viii) Partnership 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 9WJ,
United Kingdom
309Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GSK Business Service Centre Sdn Bhd Ordinary Level 6, Quill 9, 112 Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Petaling Jaya, 46300 Selangor,
Malaysia
GSK Capital B.V. (iii)(v) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS
GSK Capital K.K. Ordinary 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
GSK Commercial Sp. z o.o. Ordinary ul. Rzymowskiego 53, 02-697, Warsaw, Poland
GSK d.o.o., Ljubljana Ordinary Ameriška ulica 8, Ljubljana, 1000, Slovenia
GSK Enterprise Management Co, Ltd Ordinary Floor 4, 18 Lane 999 Huanke Road, No. 1358 Zhongke Road, Shanghai, China
GSK Equity Investments, Limited Units Corporation Service Company, 2595 Interstate Drive, Suite 103, Harrisburg
PA 17110, United States
GSK Finance (No.3) PLC Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK Finance (No 2) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK India Global Services Private Limited Equity Level 1, 2 & 3 Luxor North Tower, Bagmane Capital Business Park Outer Ring
Road, Bangalore, Karnataka, 560037, India
GSK International Holding and Finance BV Ordinary Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP, Amersfoort, Netherlands
GSK Kazakhstan LLP Participation Interest Nursultan Nazarbayev Ave 273, Business center USKO, 3rd fl., Almaty,
050059, Kazakhstan
GSK Life Sciences FZE Ordinary LB06015, Jebel Ali Freezone, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
GSK Pharma India Private Limited Equity 1, Battery House, Bhulabhai Desai Raod, Mumbai, Maharashtra, 400026,
India
GSK Pharma Vietnam Company Limited Chartered Capital Unit 702/703 7th Floor, The Metropolitan Tower, 235 Dong Khoi Street,
Ben Nghe Ward, District 1, Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam
GSK Pharmaceutical Trading S.A. (ii) Ordinary Bucharest, 1-5 Costache Negri Street, Opera Center One, 5th floor,
discussions room 01, District 5, Romania
GSK PSC Poland sp. z o.o. Equal and indivisible shares ul. Grunwaldzka 189, Poznań, 60-322, Pol
GSK Services Sp z o.o. Ordinary Ul. Grunwaldzka 189, 60-322, Poznan, Poland
GSK Vaccines BV Ordinary Hullenbergweg 85, 1101 CL, Amsterdam, Netherlands
GSK Vaccines GmbH Ordinary Emil-von-Behring-Str.76, 35041 Marburg, Germany
GSK Vaccines Institute for Global Health S.r.l. Quota Via Fiorentina 1, 53100, Siena, Italy
GSK Vaccines S.r.l. Quota Via Fiorentina 1, 53100, Siena, Italy
GSK Vaccines Vertriebs GmbH Ordinary Rudolf-Diesel-Ring 27, 83607, Holzkirchen, Germany
Human Genome Sciences, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808,
United States
ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec Common 2323, boul. Du Parc Technologique, Québec Québec G1P 4R8, Canada
Instituto Luso Farmaco, Limitada (ii) Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131,
Alges, Portugal
InterPharma Dienstleistungen GmbH Quota Wienerbergstraße 7, Wien, 1100, Austria, Austria
J&J Technologies, LC (ii) LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 100 Shockoe Slip, 2nd Floor, Richmond VA
23219, United States
JSC GlaxoSmithKline Trading Ordinary Leningradskiy Prospect 37A, Building 4, Floor 3, Premises XV, Room 1, 125167,
Moscow, Russian Federation
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien LPA Production SPA Ordinary Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Boumerdes, Algeria
Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien SPA Ordinary Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Boumerdes, Algeria
Laboratoires Paucourt (ii) Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Laboratoires Saint-Germain (ii) Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Laboratorios Dermatologicos Darier, S.A de C.V. Ordinary A; Av. Real Mayorazgo 130 Piso 20, Colonia Xoco, Alcaldia Benito Juárez,
Ordinary B Ciudad de Mexico, 03330, Mexico
Laboratorios Farmaceuticos Stiefel (Portugal) LTDA (ii) Ordinary Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131,
Alges, Portugal
Laboratorios Stiefel de Venezuela SA Ordinary Calle Altagracia, edificio P&G, nivel Mezzanina,, piso Mezzanina, local Torre
Sur, Urbanizacion Sorokaima, La Trinidad, Caracas, 1080, Venezuela,
Bolivarian Republic of
Laboratorios Stiefel Ltda. Ordinary Rua Professor Joao Cavalheiro Salem, no.1077, Bairro de Bonsucesso,
Municipality of Guarulhos, Sao Paulo, CEP 07243-580, Brazil
Laboratorios Wellcome De Portugal Limitada (ii) Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131,
Alges, Portugal
Maxinutrition Limited (in liquidation) Ordinary C/O BDO LLP, 5 Temple Square, Temple Street, Liverpool, L2 5RH
PT Glaxo Wellcome Indonesia Class A; JL. Pulobuaran Raya Kav.III/
Class B DD 2,3,4 KWS. Industri, Pulogadung, Jatinegara, Cakung, Jakarta Timur,
Indonesia
Setfirst Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
310Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
Sierra Oncology Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary c/o Maddocks Lawyers, Angel Place, Level 27, 123 Pitt Street Sydney 2000,
Australia
Sierra Oncology Canada ULC Common Suite 1800 - 510 West Georgia Street, Vancouver BC V6B 0M3, Canada
Sitari Pharma, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808,
United States
Smith Kline & French Portuguesa- Ordinary Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131,
Produtos Farmaceuticos, LDA (ii) Alges, Portugal
SmithKline Beecham (Bangladesh) Private Limited (ii) Ordinary House-2/A, Road-138,Gulshan-1, Dhaka, 1212, Bangladesh
SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Limited Ordinary 12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland
SmithKline Beecham Egypt L.L.C. Quota Amoun Street, El Salam City, Cairo, Egypt
SmithKline Beecham Farma, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760,
Madrid, Spain
SmithKline Beecham Legacy H Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Pension Plan Trustee Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Pharma GmbH & Co KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany
SmithKline Beecham Pharma Verwaltungs GmbH Ordinary Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany
SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals (Pty) Limited (ii) Ordinary Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston 2021,
South Africa
SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals Co. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808,
United States
SmithKline Beecham Senior Executive Pension Plan Trustee Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Limited (ii)
Stiefel GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany
Stiefel Laboratories Legacy (Ireland) Limited Ordinary Unit 2 Building 2500, Avenue 2000 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork, Ireland
Stiefel Laboratories Pte Limited Ordinary 1 Pioneer Sector, 628413, Singapore
Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808,
United States
Stiefel Maroc SARL Ordinary 275 Boulevard Zerktouni, Casablanca, Morocco
Stiefel Research (Australia) Holdings Pty Ltd Ordinary Level 4, 436 Johnston Street, Abbotsford, Victoria, 3067, Australia
Stiefel Research Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary Level 4, 436 Johnston Street, Abbotsford, Victoria, 3067, Australia
Stiefel West Coast LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808,
United States
Strebor Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808,
United States
Tesaro Bio GmbH (in liquidation) Ordinary Poststrasse 6, 6300 Zug, Switzerland
Tesaro Bio Netherlands B.V Ordinary Joop Geesinkweg 901, 1114 AB, Amsterdam-Duivendrecht, Netherlands
Tesaro Development, Ltd. Ordinary Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton HM11, Bermuda
Tesaro, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808,
United States
The Sydney Ross Co. (ii) Ordinary Corporation Service Company, Princeton South Corporate Center, Suite 160,
100 Charles Ewing Blvd, Ewing NJ 08628, United States
UCB Pharma Asia Pacific Sdn Bhd (ii) Ordinary 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 4
6200 Petaling Jaya, Malaysia
Wellcome Consumer Healthcare Limited (ii) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Wellcome Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100%
Amoun Pharmaceutical Industries Co. S.A.E. Monetary Shares 90.71% El Salam City 11491, PO Box 3001, Cairo, Egypt
Biddle Sawyer Limited Equity 75.00% 252 Dr Annie Besant Road, Mumbai, 400030, India
British Pharma Group Limited (i) Guarantee (50%) 50.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Galvani Bioelectronics Inc. Common 55.00% Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808,
United States
Galvani Bioelectronics Limited A Ordinary; 55.00% GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY,
B Ordinary - United Kingdom
Glaxo Laboratories (Nigeria) Limited (ii) Ordinary 99.99% 82 Marine Road, Apapa, Lagos, Nigeria
Glaxo-Allenburys (Nigeria) Limited (ii) Ordinary 99.00% 41 Creek Road, Apapa, Lagos, PMB 1401, Nigeria
311Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
GlaxoSmithKline (Tianjin) Co. Ltd Ordinary 90.00% No. 65, the Fifth Avenue, Tai Feng Industrial Park, Tianjin Economic and
Technolog, Tianjin, 300457, China
GlaxoSmithKline Algérie S.P.A. Ordinary 99.99% Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Wilaya de Boumerdes, Algeria
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Nigeria plc (vi) Ordinary 46.42% 1 Industrial Avenue, Ilupeju, Ikeja, Lagos, PM B 21218, Nigeria
GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited Ordinary 82.59% The Sykes Building, 35 Dockyard Road, West Wharf, Karachi, 74000,
Pakistan
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited Equity 75.00% 252 Dr Annie Besant Road, Mumbai, 400030, India
GlaxoSmithKline S.A.E. Ordinary 91.20% Boomerang Office Building - Land No. 46, Zone (J) -
1st District, Town Center - 5th Tagammoe, New Cairo City, Egypt
Laboratorios ViiV Healthcare, S.L. Ordinary 78.30% Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760,
Madrid, Spain
Modern Pharma Trading Company L.L.C. Quota 98.24% Amoun Street, PO Box 3001, El Salam City, Cairo, 11491, Egypt
PHIVCO-1 LLC LLC Interests 78.30% Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808,
United States
PHIVCO-2 LLC LLC Interests 78.30% Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808,
United States
SmithKline Beecham-Biomed O.O.O. Participation Interest 97.00% Leningradskiy Prospect 37A, Building 4, Floor 2, Premises XIV, Room 42, 1251
67, Moscow, Russian Federation
Stiefel Egypt LLC (ii) Quota 99.00% Amoun Street, PO Box 3001, El Salam City, Cairo, 11491, Egypt
ViiV Healthcare (South Africa) (Proprietary) Ordinary 78.30% Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston 2021,
Limited South Africa
ViiV HealthCare BV Ordinary 78.30% Van Asch van, Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP Amersfoort, The Netherlands,
Netherlands
ViiV Healthcare Company Common 78.30% Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808,
United States
ViiV Healthcare Finance 2 Limited Ordinary 78.30% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare Finance Limited Ordinary; 78.30% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Redeemable Preference
ViiV Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 78.30% Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany
ViiV Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 78.30% Talstrasse 3 , 3053 Muenchenbuchsee, Switzerland
ViiV Healthcare K.K. Ordinary 78.30% 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
ViiV Healthcare Limited A Ordinary; 78.30% GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY,
B Ordinary; United Kingdom
C Ordinary;
D1 Preference;
D2 Ordinary;
Deferred;
E 5% Cumulative Preference
ViiV Healthcare Pty Ltd Ordinary 78.30% Level 4, 436 Johnston Street, Abbotsford, Victoria, 3067, Australia
ViiV Healthcare Puerto Rico, LLC LLC Interests 78.30% CORPORATION SERVICE COMPANY PUERTO RICO INC.,
c/o RVM Professional Services, LLC, A4 Reparto Mendoza, Humacao,
Puerto Rico, 00791
ViiV Healthcare S.r.l. Quota 78.30% Viale dell’Agricoltura 7, 37135, Verona, Italy
ViiV Healthcare SAS Ordinary 78.30% 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
ViiV Healthcare sprl Ordinary 78.30% Avenue Fleming 20, 1300 Wavre, Belgium
ViiV Healthcare Trading LLC (ii) Participation Interest 78.30% Leningradskiy Prospect 37A, Building 4, Floor 2, Premises XIV, Room 28, 1251
67, Moscow, Russian Federation
ViiV Healthcare Trading Services UK Limited Ordinary 78.30% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.3) Limited Ordinary 78.30% GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY,
United Kingdom
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.4) Limited Ordinary 78.30% GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY,
United Kingdom
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.5) Limited Ordinary 78.30% GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY,
United Kingdom
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.6) Limited Ordinary 78.30% GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY,
United Kingdom
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.7) Limited Ordinary 78.30% GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage, SG1 2NY,
United Kingdom
ViiV Healthcare UK Limited Ordinary 78.30% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare ULC Common 78.30% 3500 855-2nd Street SW, Calgary AB T2P 4J8, Canada
312Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
ViiVHIV Healthcare Unipessoal Lda Quota 78.30% Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, 1495-131,
Alges, Portugal
Winster Pharmaceuticals Limited Ordinary 46.42% 2A Association Avenue, Ilupeju Industrial Estate, Lagos, PO Box 3199,
Nigeria
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Associates
GlaxoSmithKline Landholding Company, Inc Common 39.93% 23rd Floor, The Finance Centre, 26th Street Corner 9th Avenue, Bonifacio
Global City, Taguig City, 1634, Philippines
Index Ventures Life VI (Jersey) LP Partnership Interest 24.94% 44 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 9WG, Channel Islands
(24.94%)
Kurma Biofund II FCPR Partnership Interest 32.06% 24 rue Royale, 5th Floor, 75008, Paris, France
(32.06%)
Longwood Fund I, LP Partnership Interest 35.00% The Prudential Tower, Suite 1555, 800 Boylston Street, Boston, MA 02199
(35%)
Medicxi Ventures I LP Partnership Interest 26.10% 44 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 9WG, Channel Islands
(26.10%)
Joint Ventures
Chiron Panacea Vaccines Private Limited (in Liquidation) Equity Shares 50.00% 708/718, 7th Floor, A Wing, Sagar Tech Plaza, Saki Naka, Andheri East,
Mumbai, Maharashtra, 400072, India
Other significant holdings
Axon Therapies, Inc Common (2.63%); 20.03% 2326 Walsh Avenue Santa Clara, CA 95051, United States
Series A Preference
(18.40%)
Alpheus Medical, Inc. Series A Preference 21.04% 3510 Hopkins Place, North Oakdale, Minnesota 55128, USA
(13.77%)
Series A-1 Preference
(7.27%)
Global Farm S.A. A Shares (0%) 20.00% Mendoza 1259, Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires, Argentina
B Shares (0%) 100% of C
C Shares (100%) Shares
Longwood Fund II, LP Partnership Interest 20.00% The Prudential Tower, Suite 1555, 800 Boylston Street, Boston, MA 02199
(20.00%)
Sanderling Ventures VII, L.P. A63 Partnership Interest 25.31% 400 S. El Camino Real, Suite 1200, San Mateo, CA 94402
(25.31%)
SR One Capital Fund I-B, LP Partnership Interest 44.00% Corporation service company, 251 Little Falls Drive, City of Wilmington,
(44%) County of New Castle, Delaware 19808
SR One Capital Opportunities Fund I, LP Partnership Interest 24.46% Corporation service company, 251 Little Falls Drive, City of Wilmington,
(24.46%) County of New Castle, Delaware 19808
313Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
The following UK registered subsidiaries will take advantage of the audit exemption set out within Section 479A of the Companies
Act 2006 for the period ended 31 December 2023. Unless otherwise stated, the undertakings listed below are owned, either directly
or indirectly, by GSK plc.
Effective % Company
Name Security Ownership Registered address Number
UK registered subsidiaries exempted from audit
Burroughs Wellcome International Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 543757
Domantis Limited Ordinary 100.00% GSK Medicines Research Centre, Gunnels Wood Road, 3907643
Stevenage SG1 2NY, United Kingdom
Edinburgh Pharmaceutical Industries Limited (ii) Ordinary; 100.00% Shewalton Road, Irvine, Ayrshire, KA11 5AP, United Kingdom SC005534
Preference;
Eskaylab Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 99025
Glaxo Wellcome UK Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 480080
Glaxochem (UK) Unlimited Ordinary; 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 4299472
Ordinary B;
Ordinary C
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.3) Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 11480952
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.4) Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 11721880
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.5) Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 11959399
GlaxoSmithKline International Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 2298366
GSK GP 1 Limited (iv) A Shares; 100.00% 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 SC721605
B Shares 9WJ, United Kingdom
GSK GP 2 Limited (iv) Ordinary 100.00% 50 Lothian Road, Festival Square, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH3 SC721606
9WJ, United Kingdom
GSK LP Limited (i)(iv) Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 13879411
Montrose Fine Chemical Company Ltd. Ordinary 100.00% Shewalton Road, Irvine, Ayrshire, KA11 5AP, United Kingdom SC190635
PHIVCO UK II Limited Ordinary 78.30% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 6944229
PHIVCO UK Limited Ordinary 78.30% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 6944223
Smith Kline & French Laboratories Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 52207
SmithKline Beecham (Export) Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 2860752
SmithKline Beecham (H) Limited Non-cumulative 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 3296131
Non-redeemable;
Ordinary
SmithKline Beecham (Investments) Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 302065
SmithKline Beecham Marketing and Technical Services Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 494385
Limited
SmithKline Beecham Nominees Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 503868
SmithKline Beecham Overseas Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 2552828
SmithKline Beecham Pension Plan Trustee Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 3425311
Stiefel Laboratories (U.K.) Ltd Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 831160
Tesaro UK Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 7890847
The Wellcome Foundation Limited Ordinary 100.00% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 194814
ViiV Healthcare Overseas Limited Ordinary 78.30% 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 7027385
In accordance with Section 479C of the Companies Act 2006, the company will guarantee debts and liabilities of the above UK
subsidiary undertakings. As at 31 December 2023 the total sum of these debts and liabilities is £317 million (2022 – £1266 million)
Key
(i) Directly owned by GSK plc.
(ii) Dormant entity.
(iii) Tax resident in the UK.
(iv) Exempt under Regulation 7 of the Partnership (Accounts) Regulations 2008 from the requirement to deliver to the registrar financial statements of the
qualifying partnership(s) of which the entity is a member in accordance with the Companies Act.
(v) Incorporated in the Netherlands
(vi) Consolidated as a subsidiary in accordance with Section 1162 (4)(a) of the Companies Act 2006 on the grounds of dominant influence.
(vii) Principal business address in Puerto Rico.
(viii)Exempt from the provisions of Regulations 4-6 of the Partnership (Accounts) Regulation 2008, in accordance with the exemptions noted in Regulation 7 of
that Regulation.
314Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Glossary of terms
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay
the charging and payment of tax. The equivalent of tax depreciation.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) Receipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GSK ADR represents two Ordinary Shares
American Depositary Shares (ADS) Listed on the New York Stock Exchange; represents two Ordinary Shares
Basic earnings per share Basic income per share
Called up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
The company GSK plc
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies,
at agreed exchange rates and dates
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth of
the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share-based employee incentive plans
Equity Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ equity.
Finance lease Capital lease.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity
The Group GSK plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
GSK GSK plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements, by
making off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as computer software, brands, licences, patents,
know-how and marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Ordinary share A fully paid up ordinary share in the capital of the company.
Profit Income
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Share option Stock option.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).
Shares in issue The number of shares outstanding.
Subsidiary An entity in which GSK exercises control.
Treasury share Treasury stock.
Turnover Revenue.
UK Corporate Governance Code As required by the UK Listing Authority, the company has disclosed in the Annual Report how
it has applied the best practice corporate governance provisions of the Financial Reporting
Council’s UK Corporate Governance Code.
315Strategic report | Governance and remuneration | Financial statements | Investor information GSK Annual Report 2023
Other statutory disclosures continued
Index
Access 47 Major restructuring costs 200
Accounting principles and policies 185 Movements in equity 232
Acquisitions and disposals 236 Net debt 217
Adjustments reconciling Total profit after tax to operating New accounting requirements 193
cash flows 240 Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee Report 131
Annual General Meeting 2023 298 Non-controlling interests 234
Approach to tax 103 Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare 84
Assets held for sale 215 Non-Executive Directors’ fees 155
Associates and joint ventures 202 Non-financial and sustainability information statement 75
Audit & Risk Committee Report 133 Notes to the financial statements 184
Business model 08 Operating profit 198
Cash and cash equivalents 215 Other intangible assets 210
Cash generation and conversion 97 Other investments 213
CEO’s statement 06 Other non-current assets 213
Chair’s statement 04 Other non-current liabilities 230
Chair’s Governance statement 114 Other operating income/(expense) 197
Climate-related financial disclosure 62 Other provisions 228
Commitments 231 Our culture and people 14
Continuous engagement and key decisions 121 Our external environment 10
Consolidated balance sheet 181 Our long-term priorities 09
Consolidated cash flow statement 183 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 219
Consolidated income statement 180 Performance 02
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 182 Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 180 property 281
Contingent consideration liabilities 229 Pipeline 277
Contingent liabilities 230 Post balance sheet events 266
Corporate governance 107 Presentation of the financial statements 268
Corporate Responsibility Committee Report 128 Principal Group companies 262
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of Principal risks and uncertainties 284
estimation uncertainty 191 Property, plant and equipment 207
Critical accounting policies 105 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 241
Demerger of Consumer Healthcare business 238 Registrar 301
Directors and senior management 158 Related party transactions 235
Directors’ interests in shares 156 Reliable supply 44
Directors’ report 161 Remuneration Committee Chair's annual statement 139
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 164 Remuneration governance 153
Dividends 206 Remuneration report 139
Donations to political organisations and political Reporting framework 82
expenditure 305 Research and development 17
Earnings per share 206 Responsible business 46
Employee costs 199 Right of use assets 208
Employee share schemes 260 Risk management 57
Environment 49 Science Committee report 129
Ethical standards 53 Section 172 statement 123
Exchange rates 193 Share capital and control 295
Finance expense 201 Share capital and share premium account 232
Finance income 201 Share Consolidation 232
Financial calendar 2024 298 Shareholder information 295
Financial instruments and related disclosures 243 Shareholder services and contacts 301
Financial performance summary 81 Specialty Medicines 37,87
Financial position and resources 98 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 62
General Medicines 40,88 Taxation 203
Glossary of terms 315 Tax information for shareholders 299
Goodwill 209 The Board 108
Group companies 306 Three-year selected financial data 275
Group financial review 78 Trade and other payables 216
GSK Leadership Team 112 Trade and other receivables 214
GSK plc (parent company) accounts - UK GAAP 267 Treasury policies 104
Independent Auditor’s report 166 Trust 09
Innovation 09 Turnover and segment information 194
Inventories 214 US law and regulation 303
Investments in associates and joint ventures 212 Using data responsibly 54
Investor relations 302 Vaccines 33,86
Key performance indicators 02 Vaccine products, competition and intellectual property 283
Legal proceedings 263 Viability statement 76
316About GSK
GSK plc was incorporated as GlaxoSmithKline Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report are trade marks
either owned by and/or licensed to GSK or associated companies. All other
plc, an English public limited company on trade marks are the property of their respective owners.
6 December 1999. We were formed by a merger
Printed sustainably in the UK by Pureprint, a CarbonNeutral® company with
between Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline FSC® chain of custody and an ISO 14001 certified environmental
management system recycling over 99% of all dry waste.
Beecham plc. GSK acquired these two English
Printed on Arena ECO 50 EW Smooth, a wood free uncoated paper, ECF with
companies on 27 December 2000 as part of the FSC certification and made from 50% recycled fibre.
merger arrangements. Effective 15 May 2022
GlaxoSmithKline plc changed its name to
GSK plc. On 18 July 2022, GSK plc separated
its Consumer Healthcare business from the
GSK Group to form Haleon, an independent Download PDFs:
listed company. – Annual Report 2023
– Form 20-F
Our shares are listed on the London Stock
– ESG Performance Report 2023
Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange. – Full-year and Fourth Quarter 2023 Results
gsk.com
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking Assumptions and basis of preparation related to 2024 The assumptions for GSK’s updated revenue, operating
statements guidance, 2021-26 and 2031 outlooks profit, operating margin and cash flow outlooks, 2031
This document and the Group’s other reports published or All guidance, outlooks and expectations should be read revenue outlook and margin expectations through
filed with or furnished to the US Securities and Exchange together with the guidance and outlooks, assumptions Dolutegravir loss of exclusivity also factor in all
Commission (SEC), and any other written information and cautionary statements in this annual report and the divestments and product exits announced to date as well
released, or oral statements made, to the public in the Group's Q4 2023 earnings release. as material costs for investment in new product launches
f l Gou rot ou k ur ine pg ’b s sy ct uo a rr t r eo em nn t eb ene xth s p.a eFl cf o to r awf t t ia oh r ne d s -G l oor ro o fu k oip n re, g m c asa t say tst c e oo m fn e ft ua n tti un s r g efo iv erw e v ea t nhrd te s - . I p cn ee ro r tiu o at d il ni n 2 ai 0n s2g su1 -t mh 2e 0 p 2 tg i6 ou ni ad sna adn b c f ooe ur f t2o 0 tr h 32 e10 , m2 th4 ae ca G rn ord -o eo u cpu ot nhlo oao msk ms ic f a o dr eth e a p l ra en la t ged n us nR lt a e& i tnd oD t rel y. a r R nu si uans ck lc - ceha ese td ss i smj u w fas oht t re i e c ed h o a s fa ca t hrl hee ae s r si psi sn k r ec o- tal bu id nad j be dus is el it vs te y ea d ll o oe b f ps a t mf eso ce er h d np n to o .i ct ne a tn lh at eia n dl
An investor can identify these statements by the fact that environment, the healthcare sector (including regarding Potential future sales contribution from Blenrep has been
they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. existing and possible additional governmental legislative excluded.
They use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, and regulatory reform), the different markets and
‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’, ‘target’ and other competitive landscape in which the Group operates and Notwithstanding these guidance, outlooks and
words and terms of similar meaning in connection with the delivery of revenues and financial benefits from its expectations, there is still uncertainty as to whether our
any discussion of future operating or financial current portfolio, its development pipeline and assumptions, guidance, outlooks and expectations will be
performance. In particular, these include statements restructuring programmes. achieved, including based on the other assumptions
relating to future actions, prospective products or product 2024 Guidance outlined above.
a a o p wfp n a i tctp y hi o mcr io i n tp e sv ta nia ln ettl g ses g , ed a af n u n lp ct odru io re r f d s re in e u sp a guc ne uctsr c lh af , i o a ts a or a lm s rrl ye ela e s s on g ue bc a lf t le if l s g o .p o aOr rtr o ts t ir , oc he e e nes x eu srp dl t (t e h is i nnn a o cgs n lf e s u i,c s d nd,u it a nir vhr gce ie d c n ueo ot nn u ra dddtn c ea d o rn m cee T a e thxh n epe d es G ee c ra t op ar ul n ta pii onn ’sngn s pi sn rapg ose dsa r u u s s m cs h tu a e sm , r n nep o o gt i m mo un i ad as ta t e ea n r rs ic ia aw e l l e ia mnl nl t eea d rrs g rd u eo i pv rp si tde ,i o ar ea nn ct s qdi n t u og is sp itu ir opo npfi st ly o o r f A b ( to£all 1 ts /o hi su $ e t a 1 l 5.o 2n o 4 yd ek , u £ as s 1 rt e / sa €t t2e o10m . 1 22 5 0e 3 , n 2£at 61s v / e wa Yr ir ea te hng g e 217i 0v e 5e 2x )n 1c . 2 aho 0a sn 2n t a h1g - e e 2c 0o bran 2 at 6s set e a os yn ua et ts l aoc a ru o . r kbr e a ren s fec ey r s
the Market Abuse Regulation, the UK Listing Rules and disposals, no material litigation or investigation costs for Notice regarding limitations on Director Liability under
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial the Company (save for those that are already recognised English Law
Conduct Authority), the Group undertakes no obligation or for which provisions have been made) and no change Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits
to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a in the Group’s shareholdings in ViiV Healthcare. The the liability of Directors in respect of statements in and
result of new information, future events or otherwise. The assumptions also assume no material changes in the omissions from the Directors’ Report (for which see page
reader should, however, consult any additional disclosures healthcare environment or unexpected significant 161), the Strategic report and the Remuneration report.
that the Group may make in any documents which it changes in pricing as a result of government or competitor Under English law the Directors would be liable to the
publishes and/or files with the SEC. All readers, wherever action. The 2024 guidance factors in all divestments and company, but not to any third party, if one or more of
located, should take note of these disclosures. product exits announced to date. these reports contained errors as a result of recklessness
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any 2021-26 and 2031 outlooks or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a
particular expectation will be met and investors are The assumptions for GSK’s updated revenue, operating material fact, but would otherwise not be liable. Pages 97,
cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward- profit, operating margin and cash flow outlooks, 2031 131, 166 to 167, and 285 to 314 inclusive comprise the
looking statements. revenue outlook and margin expectations through Directors’ Report, pages 1 to 95 inclusive comprise the
F i f e i cn ma aso h c t pr uie tw m soor ea e rr a t snr aat d et t cn h- .r t tl i a To u s ftk h ao a s a ek lc i a rr tn G ee ong s r rbd o us s e , lu ut tiya sp nn o t c tc ce n ole uam d r ddu te t ia it fh nn i fi oe gn et ns t r G t i sea mh r isr oo n ae , su vm t es e epu a s ri’s n ib tn a o cj y t le r lho ysc o i n st t ff t h r t drw oao o o mh tla c i o a c us tr hhs m nu p o ur em r se me enlp a c tb ,it t s ei e co e r on t oo us f l, d D r d ( a ae we d po v hv j pl e uu e i rcn st ol ho te u ve pg e ah ds mr a l a sba ve v oan enir fs d t b il t so p hef ,is i en e aps na s peo n l ia df i pc n s ee ei e sa sx le icc l p n s rbl o esu ibe e rs pt en di fv ode o i ft r f l oy tfii ot fu r osa rt o t lfs h ihr f os io esu d om rm pr fu b ue di g et r s rps lt uo h c oa gwe u sn s )erd d ;r a ee o r nv enl ni a dgv t c ae ua vcr ln ar ay i ind s cto oe k c f -s r i ny es S t u u D th ot p p ir e r t oa ea hR nt cn ee e tEd g o lm in r mi pc sgu r il inr te i ne ase s hp tcer i ao o on ctr n nt oit eo n s ma d n e an p cir nnd ae t di p n oap y rno ca e r c lg w st ao, te w i re r t is d h ca a1 a t c t3 in ohnh3 d nec ot e ssto f eh p w w e1 r r6 i e o h t l4 h i p vi ac ioi da bn h r en ic tlh si ddl tu a i s es biv hni se yv a r o e l seb l f uc l e bi t cao e h e hnm n e sc l up ad e br wr i a js .ewe c n t
expressed or implied in any forward-looking statement. that underlie these expectations (which have also been Website
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those assessed for this purpose on a risk-adjusted basis, as GSK’s website www.gsk.com gives additional information
discussed under ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on described further below); no material interruptions to on the Group. Notwithstanding the references we make in
pages 284 to 294 of this Annual Report. Any forward- supply of the Group’s products; successful delivery of the this Annual Report to GSK’s website, none of the
looking statements made by or on behalf of the Group ongoing and planned integration and restructuring plans; information made available on the website constitutes
speak only as of the date they are made and are based no material mergers, acquisitions or disposals or other part of this Annual Report or shall be deemed to be
upon the knowledge and information available to the material business development transactions; no material incorporated by reference herein.
Directors on the date of this report. litigation or investigation costs for the company (save for
those that are already recognised or for which provisions
A number of non-IFRS measures are used to report the have been made); no share repurchases by the company;
performance of our business. These measures are defined and no change in the shareholdings in ViiV Healthcare.
on pages 83 to 84 and a reconciliation of Adjusted results GSK assumes no premature loss of exclusivity for key
to Total results is set out on pages 93 to 95. products over the period.
The information in this document does not constitute an
offer to sell or an invitation to buy shares in GSK plc or an
invitation or inducement to engage in any other
investment activities. Past performance cannot be relied
upon as a guide to future performance. Nothing in this
Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
317We unite science, technology
and talent to get ahead
of disease together.
Head Office and Registered Office
GSK plc
980 Great West Road
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Registered number: 3888792