GlaxoSmithKline 01
GlaxoSmithKline plc
Annual Report
for the year ended 31st December 2000
Contents
Report of the Directors
02 Financial summary
03 Joint statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
05 Description of business
29 Corporate governance
37 Remuneration report
47 Operating and financial review and prospects
69 Financial statements
70 Directors’ statements of responsibility
71 Report by the auditors
72 Consolidated statement of profit and loss
72 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses
74 Consolidated statement of cash flow
76 Consolidated balance sheet
76 Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
77 Company balance sheet
78 Notes to the financial statements
136 Group companies
142 Principal financial statements in US$
144 Financial record
153 Investor information
154 Shareholder return
156 Taxation information for shareholders
157 Shareholder information
158 Share capital
160 Cross reference to Form 20-F
162 Glossary of terms
The Annual Report was approved by the Board
163 Index
of Directors on 22nd March 2001 and published
on 12th April 2001. Contact details02 GlaxoSmithKline
Financial summary
2000 1999 Increase
Business performance £m £m CER % £ %
Sales 18,079 16,164 9 12
Trading profit 5,026 4,378 12 15
Profit before taxation 5,327 4,708 11 13
Earnings/Net income 3,697 3,222 13 15
Earnings per Ordinary Share 61.0p 52.7p 14 16
Total results
Profit before taxation 6,029 4,236
Earnings/Net income 4,154 2,859
Earnings per Ordinary Share 68.5p 46.7p
Business performance: results exclude merger items and restructuring costs; 1999 sales and trading profit exclude the Healthcare Services businesses
which were disposed of in 1999.
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.
Financial highlights
Pharmaceutical sales up 10 per cent
Sales growth in key therapeutic areas:
• Central nervous system up 16 per cent
• Respiratory up 15 per cent
• Anti-virals up 14 per cent
New products contributed nearly £1 billion in growth, up 60 per cent:
• Avandiaachieved sales of £462 million
• Seretideachieved sales of £208 million, with US launch planned for April 2001
Business performance pre-tax profit up 11 per cent
Business performance earnings per share up 14 per cent
Shareholder return 2000 1999
Dividends per GlaxoSmithKline share:
former Glaxo Wellcome shareholder 38.0p 37.0p
former SmithKline Beecham shareholder 29.7p 26.7p
Share price (London Stock Exchange):
GlaxoSmithKline share at 31st December 2000 £18.90 –
Glaxo Wellcome share at 26th December 2000/31st December 1999 £18.42 £17.50
SmithKline Beecham share at 26th December 2000/31st December 1999 £8.33 £7.90
1 Glaxo Wellcome share is equivalent to 1 GlaxoSmithKline share.
1 SmithKline Beecham share is equivalent to 0.4552 GlaxoSmithKline shares.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
Under the safe harbor provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the company cautions investors that any
forward-looking statements or projections made by the company, including those made in this document, are subject to risks and
uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Factors that may affect the company’s operations
are discussed under ‘Risk Factors’ on page 57 of this Annual Report.GlaxoSmithKline 03
Joint statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
Financial outlook
Pharmaceutical sales growth is a key driver of GlaxoSmithKline’s
current strong business performance. The company will also benefit
from the delivery of at least £1.6 billion in cost savings by 2003 as a
result of both the merger and the manufacturing restructuring plans
already in place.
These benefits and the performance of the business have led the
company to forecast earnings per share growth (excluding merger
and restructuring costs and the effects of currency) for 2001
ofaround 13 per cent. This is despite the impact of product
divestments required by regulatory bodies in order to complete
themerger which will have the effect of reducing the company’s
earnings per share expectation for the year by six per cent.
In 2002, the company expects earnings per share growth to
accelerate to the mid teens, reflecting strong business performance
boosted by cost savings.
This past year has been momentous for everyone at Becoming the industry leader
GlaxoSmithKline. Our big event during the Millennium year was
We have started life as a new company at a rapid pace,
theannouncement on 17th January 2000 of our intention to
implementing many of the plans we worked on last year.
mergeGlaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham to create one
ofthe world’s leading research-based healthcare companies. Our mission is nothing less than to improve the quality of human
life by enabling people to do more, feel better and live longer. That
Following regulatory and shareholder approval, the two companies
mission gives us purpose. Our size gives us opportunity. But it is our
became one on 27th December 2000. Throughout the year, our
spirit as a company – our passion for innovation and achievement,
employees worked hard to achieve two objectives: maintain the
coupled with an unmatched sense of urgency – that we believe will
momentum of both existing businesses and plan the merger of
enable us to attain success as a world class leader.
twostrong companies, each with a rich heritage of pharmaceutical
discovery and development and a proven record of success in the Bringing two companies together is complex and full of challenge.
marketplace. They have succeeded in doing both. We must complete the integration quickly to realise the full benefits
of the merger, with proper respect for our employees. That will
Delivering results bedone. Beyond integration, our priorities are to improve R&D
productivity, achieve excellence in product commercialisation,
Despite all the uncertainty of the integration planning process,
bethepartner of choice for in-licensing and work in partnership
wewere able to turn in a strong set of results for the year 2000.
with governments, agencies and charities to expand access
Sales for the combined group reached £18 billion with growth
toourmedicines.
ofnine per cent (at constant exchange rates, excluding Healthcare
Services). Pharmaceuticals had a great year, with particularly good
Building our new product portfolio
results in the United States – our largest market – which reported
sales of £7.7 billion, up 15 per cent. New products – those In 2000 we invested £2.5 billion in R&D. That, and our previous
launched in a major market within the last five years – investment in key technologies – now fully integrated into our
contributed£2.6 billion of sales, represent 17 per cent of our business – have yielded a formidable early stage pipeline of
totalpharmaceutical sales, and grew at 60 per cent in 2000. promising compounds that offer great hope for better medicines
against diseases such as cancer, obesity, diabetes and heart disease.
The business climate in Europe remains demanding but our growth
there of six per cent in 2000 was broadly in line with the market. We have also radically redesigned our R&D organisation to achieve
Inthe rest of the world, sales grew by eight per cent reflecting the benefits of scale without sacrificing the advantages of a small,
double-digit growth in Asia Pacific, the Middle East and Africa flexible working environment. The strong link between research
andCanada. Zeffixand Paxilwere launched in Japan in late 2000 andcommercial operations built into the new structure will also
and both products are off to a strong start. enable us to maximise the value of our medicines through excellence
in product commercialisation – another key driver of ourbusiness.
Our Consumer Healthcare business performance was affected by
As a current market leader in four of the five top therapeutic
competition in the smoking cessation area. We are confident that
areas– central nervous system (CNS), respiratory, metabolic/gastro-
the business performance will improve in 2001 and we will also be
intestinal (GI) and anti-infectives – we are in a strong position to
realising the benefits from our acquisition of Block Drug, completed
achieve that goal.
in January 2001. Block Drug, with sales in more than 100 countries,
adds approximately £600 million to GlaxoSmithKline’s Consumer CNS is our largest product sales category, led by Seroxat/Paxilwhich
Healthcare business and some well-known brands such as became number one in the US selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor
Sensodyne. market for new retail prescriptions in 2000. We expect to expand its
value in 2001 from approvals to market the product to treat general
Our vaccines business continues to do well with double-digit
anxiety disorder and post traumatic stress disorder.
growth (11 per cent) resulting from new products such as our
combination vaccine, Infanrix, which grew by 47 per cent. In respiratory, Flixotide/Floventremains the world’s leading asthma
Continued strength in the near term is expected to be driven by our medicine. Seretidehas enjoyed strong launches in Europe and will
new vaccines, including the launch in 2001 of five new vaccines. be launched in the USA as Advairin April 2001 where we have high
hopes for its success.04 GlaxoSmithKlineJoint statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
We are also the industry leaders in medicines that treat HIV/AIDS As the world leader in the discovery and development of medicines
with Combivirand Ziagenboth growing well. In December 2000, that effectively treat HIV/AIDS, GlaxoSmithKline is determined to
we launched the first triple combination medicine to fight play its full part in dealing with this desperate humanitarian crisis
HIV/AIDS– Trizivir– in the USA and will be launching it across which is blighting and destroying the lives of so many millions of
Europe in 2001. people. Yet it disappoints our employees and our other stakeholders
that much of the public comment has so far failed to convey the
Our metabolic/GI business suffered a blow in 2000 with the
immense complexity of the issue or give due credit for the
withdrawal of our recently launched medicine, Lotronex– the first
substantial contribution your company is already making.
effective treatment for irritable bowel syndrome – as a result of
theUS Food and Drug Administration concerns over side effects. Real progress in increasing the number of patients treated will
However, in the same therapeutic category, Avandia, our new onlycome through concerted action whereby companies such as
diabetes treatment, had an exceptional year and was the single GlaxoSmithKline work actively in partnership with governments that
biggest contributor to the company’s growth in 2000. This market have the political will to develop real solutions; donor funders who
has great growth potential, and we will be expanding the can help buy medicines; and organisations on the ground working
treatmentoptions for Avandiain order to provide its benefits to provide medical facilities, establish reliable drug distribution
toevenmorepatients. systems, and provide patients with proper care and treatment.
Wewill keep shareholders updated on our progress.
So, we have strong products growing in the marketplace and
manypromising compounds coming through early stage R&D.
Acknowledgements
Meanwhile, we will add new compounds to the portfolio
throughintelligent in-licensing. We have already announced an Despite the merger activity, both companies were honoured
unprecedented nine licensing agreements in the last 12 months, withawards, recognising excellence in a wide range of activities.
most recently E Merck’s partial agonist for depression and Our first award as GlaxoSmithKline came even before the merger
Sepsicure’s endotoxin binder for sepsis, both in Phase II of was completed, when we were voted Britain’s Most Admired
clinicaltrials. Company in the annual Management Today Awards, an accolade
we are determined to live up to.
Meeting society’s challenges
We are deeply indebted to all our employees for their commitment
Leadership and size bring visibility and accountability. We recognise and are proud of what they achieved this year. Their success has
our responsibility to society wherever we operate, and we will listen laid the strong foundations on which we are now building
to and address legitimate concerns as they affect our business. GlaxoSmithKline.
Shareholders will be aware that the creation of GlaxoSmithKline has
We wish to thank those former Directors of Glaxo Wellcome and
coincided with an upsurge of public comment and concern on two
SmithKline Beecham who have left the company as a consequence
issues in particular: the use of animals in the discovery and testing
of the merger. Executive Directors Andrew Bonfield, James
of medicines and access to medicines in the developing world.
Cochrane and Jeremy Strachan all made extremely valuable
GlaxoSmithKline is required by governmental regulatory agencies contributions to the success of the former businesses and in helping
tosubmit data on the safety and efficacy of new medicines derived bring about the merger. Arthur Li and Baroness Hooper departed
from animal models. We make every effort to reduce the number after giving valuable service as Non-Executive Directors. Derek
ofanimals used in our research through computer modelling and Bonham has decided not to seek election as a Non-Executive
other techniques. However, those methods cannot yet replicate Director at the forthcoming AGM and he too is thanked for his
thecomplex physiological processes in living creatures which can services to Glaxo Wellcome and to GlaxoSmithKline.
influence whether a drug substance is safe or toxic to different
On behalf of your Board and Corporate Executive Team, we also
organs. So, while we must continue to use animals to discover
thank shareholders for their support towards the creation of
anddevelop new medicines, we ensure that they are well cared
GlaxoSmithKline. We are committed to achieving the best return
for,beyond the high standards set by regulators. We unreservedly
forall shareholders and stakeholders in our vibrant new company.
condemn the use of threats and intimidation against any individual
engaged in legitimate and lawful activity – in our case, employees
engaged in the discovery and development of medicines with the
potential to save or prolong human life.
The devastating impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic on the
populations and economies of developing countries, particularly in
sub-Saharan Africa, has thrown the role and responsibilities of the
pharmaceutical industry – as providers of medicines effective in the
treatment of the disease – into sharp relief. GlaxoSmithKline has
moved quickly to build on the leadership exhibited by our two Sir Richard Sykes J P Garnier
previous companies, which included in May 2000 a groundbreaking Chairman Chief Executive Officer
pledge to supply three HIV/AIDS medicines to developing country
governments at price reductions of around 90 per cent. In February
2001 we extended our commitment by offering to supply these
same deep discounts to non-governmental organisations, UN
agencies and also to employers in Africa that have direct access
topatients through their own clinics and hospitals.GlaxoSmithKline 05
Description of business
The Description of business discusses the activities, the
resourcesandthe operating environment of the business and
identifies developments and achievements in 2000, under the
following headings:
The business
06 History and development of the company
07 Products
Operating environment
10 Competition
11 Regulation
Operating activities
12 Marketing and distribution
13 Manufacture and supply
14 Research and development
Operating resources
22 Intellectual property
23 Information technology
24 GlaxoSmithKline people
24 Property, plant and equipment
The business and the community
25 Environment, health and safety
26 Global community partnerships
28 Access to medicines
Discussion of the Group’s management structures and corporate
governance procedures is set out in Corporate governance
(pages29to36).
Discussion of the Group’s operating and financial performance and
financial resources is given in the Operating and financial review
andprospects (pages 47 to 68).
In this report: ‘GlaxoSmithKline’ or the ‘Group’ means GlaxoSmithKline plc
and its subsidiary and associated undertakings and the‘company’ means
GlaxoSmithKline plc;‘GlaxoSmithKline share’ means an Ordinary Share
ofGlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p.
Throughout this report, figures quoted for market size, market share and
market growth rates relate to the year ended 30th September 2000
(orlater where available). These are GlaxoSmithKline estimates based
onthe most recent data from independent external sources, valued in
sterling at relevant exchange rates. Figures quoted for product market
share reflect sales by GlaxoSmithKline and licensees.
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report are trade marks
of GlaxoSmithKline plc, its subsidiaries or associated companies, with
theexception of Nicoderm, a trade mark of Hoechst Marion Roussel Inc;
Bexxar, a trade mark of Corixa Corporation, Inc; Coreg, a trade mark
under licence from Roche Laboratories, Inc; Factive, a trade mark
ofLGChemical, Ltd; Navelbine, a trade mark of Pierre Fabré
Médicament and Panorex, a trade mark of Centocor, Inc, all of which are
used under licence by the Group.06 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
The business
History and development of the company
GlaxoSmithKline plc, and its subsidiary and associated undertakings,
constitute a major global healthcare group engaged in the creation
and discovery, development, manufacture and marketing of
pharmaceutical products, vaccines, over-the-counter (OTC)
medicines and health-related consumer products.
GlaxoSmithKline has its corporate head office in the London area at:
Glaxo Wellcome House
Berkeley Avenue
Greenford
Middlesex UB6 0NN
England
Tel: 020 8966 8000
GlaxoSmithKline has an operational headquarters in Philadelphia,
USA, and operating companies in some 70 countries, with products
sold in over 140 countries. The principal research and development
(R&D) facilities are in the UK, USA, Japan, Italy and Belgium and
products are currently manufactured in some 41 countries.
The major markets for the Group’s products are the USA, Japan,
theUK, France, Germany and Italy.
GlaxoSmithKline plc is a public limited company incorporated on
6thDecember 1999 under English law. On 27th December 2000
the company acquired Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham
plc, both English public limited companies, by way of a scheme of
arrangement for the merger of the two companies. Both Glaxo
Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham were major global healthcare
businesses.
Business segments
GlaxoSmithKline operates principally in two industry segments:
• Pharmaceuticals (prescription pharmaceuticals and vaccines)
• Consumer Healthcare (over-the-counter medicines, oral care and
nutritional healthcare).
The businesses in the Healthcare Services segment (primarily Clinical
Laboratories and Diversified Pharmaceutical Services) were disposed
of in 1999.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 07
Products – pharmaceuticals
Therapeutic area Trade mark Compound Mechanism Indication (may vary by country)
CNS disorders Seroxat/Paxil paroxetine selective serotonin reuptake depression, panic, anxiety
inhibitor
Wellbutrin bupropion noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor depression
Imigran/Imitrex sumatriptan 5-HT agonist migraine, cluster headache
1
Naramig/Amerge naratriptan 5-HT agonist migraine
1
Lamictal lamotrigine sodium channel modulator epilepsy
Requip ropinirole dopamine D2 agonist Parkinson’s disease
Zyban bupropion SR noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor smoking addiction
Respiratory Flixotide/Flovent fluticasone propionate inhaled anti-inflammatory asthma, bronchial conditions
Serevent salmeterol xinafoate bronchodilator bronchial asthma, bronchitis
Seretide/Advair salmeterol and fluticasone bronchodilator/anti-inflammatory asthma
propionate
Flixonase/Flonase fluticasone propionate intranasal anti-inflammatory hayfever, perennial rhinitis
Ventolin salbutamol/albuterol bronchodilator bronchial asthma, bronchitis
Becotide/Beclovent beclomethasone dipropionate inhaled anti-inflammatory bronchial asthma, bronchitis
Beconase beclomethasone dipropionate intranasal anti-inflammatory hayfever, perennial rhinitis
Anti-bacterials Augmentin amoxycillin/ broad spectrum antibiotic common infections
clavulanate potassium
Zinnat/Ceftin cefuroxime axetil oral antibiotic common infections
Fortum/Fortaz ceftazidime injectable antibiotic severe, life threatening infections
Amoxil amoxycillin broad spectrum antibiotic common infections
Zinacef cefuroxime injectable antibiotic surgical infections
Anti-virals Trizivir lamivudine, zidovudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV/AIDS
and abacavir
Combivir/Biovir lamivudine and zidovudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV/AIDS
Epivir/3TC lamivudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV/AIDS
Retrovir/AZT zidovudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV/AIDS
Ziagen abacavir reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV/AIDS
Agenerase amprenavir protease inhibitor HIV/AIDS
Valtrex/Zelitrex valaciclovir DNA polymerase inhibitor shingles, genital herpes
Zovirax aciclovir DNA polymerase inhibitor herpes infections, shingles,
chicken pox, cold sores
Zeffix/Heptavir/ lamivudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor chronic hepatitis B infection
Heptodin/Epivir HBV
Relenza zanamavir neuraminidase inhibitor influenza treatment
Malarone atovaquone electron transport system malaria treatment/prophylaxis
inhibitor
Metabolic and Avandia rosiglitazone PPAR-gamma agonist type 2 diabetes
gastro-intestinal Zantac ranitidine hydrochloride anti-secretory duodenal ulcers, stomach ulcers,
reflux and dyspepsia
Pylorid/Tritec ranitidine bismuth citrate anti-secretory plus antibiotic eradication of H pylori
Vaccines Havrix hepatitis A
Engerix-B hepatitis B
Twinrix hepatitis A and B
Infanrix diphtheria, tetanus, acellular pertussis
Oncology Zofran ondansetron 5-HT receptor antagonist nausea and vomiting from cancer
3
and emesis therapy
Hycamtin topotecan topoisomerase 1 inhibitor ovarian cancer, small cell lung cancer
Navelbine vinorelbine cytotoxic non-small cell lung cancer, breast
cancer
Panorex Mab17-1A monoclonal antibody colorectal cancer as adjuvant therapy
Cardiovascular Coreg carvedilol alpha/betablocker congestive heart failure
Lanoxin digoxin cardiac anti-arrhythmic congestive heart failure,
cardiac arrhythmia
Flolan epoprostenol inhibitor of blood clotting primary pulmonary hypertension
Lacipil lacidipine calcium channel blocker hypertension
Pritor telmisartan angiotensin II antagonist hypertension08 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Products – Pharmaceuticals Anti-bacterials
The Group markets a range of antibiotics.
GlaxoSmithKline’s principal pharmaceutical products are presently
directed to 10 major therapeutic areas. An analysis of salesby these Augmentinis a broad-spectrum antibiotic suitable for the treatment
therapeutic areas, and a description of the principal products, are of a wide range of common bacterial infections, and is particularly
setout below: effective against respiratory tract infections.
2000 1999 1998 Zinnatis an oral antibiotic used primarily for community-acquired
Sales by therapeutic area £m £m £m
infections of the lower respiratory tract. Fortumand Zinacefare
Central nervous system disorders 3,279 2,720 2,400
used in the hospital-based injectable antibiotics market.
Respiratory 2,789 2,382 2,096
Anti-bacterials 2,472 2,383 2,278
Anti-virals
Anti-virals 1,899 1,610 1,347
Combivir, a combination of Retrovirand Epivir, has consolidated
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal 1,232 886 908
the position of these two reverse transcriptase inhibitors as the
Vaccines 842 776 726
cornerstone of many multiple anti-HIV product regimens. Physician
Oncology and emesis 710 613 549
acceptance has clearly demonstrated the value placed on
Cardiovascular 463 449 390
minimising the ‘pill burden’ faced by patients.
Dermatologicals 249 254 243
Arthritis 210 275 301 Ziagenis the Group’s new reverse transcriptase inhibitor. The
Others 837 842 949 product’s potency, ease of use and resistance profile will allow it to
Divested products 447 428 376 play a significant role in a variety of highly active, well tolerated,
andsimplified HIV treatment regimens.
15,429 13,618 12,563
Triziviris a combination of Combivirand Ziagen, combining three
Central nervous system (CNS) disorders anti-HIV therapies in one tablet, for twice daily administration.
Seroxat/Paxilis a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI)
Ageneraseis a new protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV,
approved for depression, panic, obsessive compulsive disorder and
the first medicine of this class to be brought to the market by
social anxiety disorder, with approvals being obtained for generalised
GlaxoSmithKline. Agenerasehas a twice daily dosing regime and
anxiety disorder and post traumatic stress disorder.
no significant food or drink restrictions.
Wellbutrinis also an anti-depressant, available in the USA in normal
Zeffixhas been approved for marketing in the USA, Europe, China
orsustained release tablet formulations.
and other markets for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B.
Imigran/Imitrexis a 5HT receptor agonist used for the treatment
1 Zoviraxis used for the treatment of herpes infections such as
ofsevere or frequent migraine and cluster headache, and has
chicken pox, genital herpes, shingles and cold sores. The newer
become the reference product in this sector. Naramig/Amergeis the
anti-herpes compound, Valtrex, reinforces the Group’s presence
Group’s newer migraine product.
inthis market as a treatment for zoster and the episodic and
Lamictalis a treatment for epilepsy. Used alone or in combination long-term suppression of genital herpes.
with other products, it has achieved penetration of this mature
Relenza, the Group’s novel treatment for influenza, is the first of a
market through successful treatment of severe cases.
new class of drug known as a neuraminidase inhibitor, and targets
Requipis a specific dopamine D2-like receptor for the treatment the primary site of viral replication through direct delivery to the
ofParkinson’s disease. airways via an inhaler.
Zybanis a novel, nicotine-free prescription medicine, available
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal
asasustained-release tablet, for treating the problem of
Avandiais the most potent of a novel class of oral anti-diabetic
smokingaddiction.
agents called thiazolidinediones or PPAR-gamma agonists, for the
treatment of type 2 diabetes.
Respiratory
Sereventis a long-acting bronchodilator, and Ventolina selective Zantac, for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease and a range
short-acting bronchodilator, for the treatment of asthma. ofgastric acid related disorders, continues to play a major role in
treatment in a number of markets, even where patent protection
Flixotide/Floventand Becotide/Becloventare inhaled steroids for the
has been lost. Pylorid/Tritecis used, in combination with antibiotics,
treatment of inflammation associated with bronchial asthma and
for the eradication of helicobacter pylori, a causative agent
chronic bronchitis.
inulcers.
Seretide/Advair, a combination of Sereventand Flixotide, offers
Lotronex, a novel treatment for the multiple symptoms of irritable
along-acting bronchodilator and an anti-inflammatory in a single
bowel syndrome, was approved for use in the USA following
inhaler.
priority review and launched in 2000, but was subsequently
Flixonase/Flonaseand Beconaseare intra-nasal preparations for the withdrawn following discussions with the US Food and
treatment of perennial and seasonal rhinitis. DrugAdministration over the interpretation of data relating
togastro-intestinal side effects.
The Group’s respiratory products are now available in a wide choice
of delivery systems, including the Diskus/Accuhaler, a dry powder
multi-dose inhaler.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 09
Vaccines Category Product
GlaxoSmithKline markets a range of hepatitis vaccines. Havrix
Over-the-counter medicines
protects against hepatitis A and Engerix-Bagainst hepatitis B.
Analgesics Panadol
Twinrixis a combined hepatitis A and B vaccine, protecting against
Dermatologicals Oxy
both diseases with one vaccine and available in both adult and
Gastro-intestinal Tums
paediatric strengths.
Tagamet HB
Infanrixis a range of paediatric vaccine combinations. Infanrix Zantac Relief
provides protection against diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis Respiratory tract Contac
(whooping cough). Infanrix PeNta provides additional protection Beechams
against hepatitis B and polio, andInfanrix HeXafurther adds Beconase Hayfever
protection against haemophilus influenzae type b, which Smoking control Nicorette
causesmeningitis. NicoDerm CQ
NiQuitin CQ
Additionally GlaxoSmithKline markets Priorix,a measles,
Nicabate
mumps and rubella vaccine, Typherix, a vaccine for protection
Vitamins and naturals Abtei
against typhoid fever, LYMErix, a vaccine for protection against
Oral care Aquafresh
LYME disease.
Macleans
Odol
Oncology and emesis
DrBest
Zofranis used to prevent nausea and vomiting associated with
chemotherapy and radiotherapy for cancer, and is available in Nutritional healthcare Lucozade
bothoral and injectable forms. It is also approved for use in the Ribena
prevention and treatment of post-operative nausea and vomiting. Horlicks
Hycamtinis a second line treatment both for ovarian cancer and
Over-the-counter medicines
forsmall cell lung cancer.
The most significant products are Panadol, a widely available
Panorexis the first monoclonal antibody to be licensed for non-aspirin analgesic; the smoking cessation products Nicorette,
cancertherapy. NicoDermCQ, NiQuitinCQand Nicabate; Tums, the calcium-based
antacid and TagametHBfor the prevention and relief of heartburn;
Cardiovascular Contacand the Beechamsrange for the treatment of colds and
Coregis a blocking agent which has been proven to be effective influenza; and a variety of vitamin and tonic products led by Abtei
intreating mild and moderate congestive heart failure. inGermany. Consumer Healthcare will market additionally OTC
versions of Zantacand Beconase.
Dermatologicals
The Group’s principal dermatological products, Betnovate, Oral care
thehigher potency Dermovateand the newer Cutivateare The leading oral care products are Aquafresh, Macleansand
anti-inflammatory steroid products used to treat skin diseases Odoltoothpastes and toothbrushes sold under the Aquafreshand
suchas eczema and psoriasis. DrBesttrademarks.
Divested products Nutritional healthcare
In accordance with agreements for regulatory approvals of the In this category the principal products are Lucozade, the glucose
merger between Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham, the energy drink; Ribena, a line of juice drinks rich in vitamin C; and
products Kytril, for the treatment of chemotherapy – and Horlicks, a range of milk-based malted food and chocolate drinks.
radiotherapy – induced nausea and vomiting, and Famvir, an
anti-viral for the treatment of shingles and herpes, were divested Block Drug
inDecember 2000. In January 2001 GlaxoSmithKline completed the acquisition of Block
Drug. This will add to the product range Sensodynetoothpaste,
Products – Consumer Healthcare Poli-Gripdenture adhesive and Polidentdenture cleaner.
GlaxoSmithKline’s principal consumer products are presently
directedto three major areas. An analysis of sales by these areas
isset out below:
2000 1999 1998
£m £m £m
Over-the-counter medicines 1,454 1,434 1,328
Oral care 642 614 584
Nutritional healthcare 535 488 459
Divested products 19 10 4
2,650 2,546 2,37510 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Operating environment
Competition – Pharmaceuticals Anti-bacterials
Major products competing with GlaxoSmithKline’s semi-synthetic
The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. GlaxoSmithKline’s
penicillins are other anti-infectives including, but not limited to,
principal competitors are large international pharmaceutical
generic brands, cephalosporins and, to an increasing degree,
companies with substantial resources. Some of these companies
particularly in Japan, quinolones. Augmentinhas been experiencing
and their major products are mentioned below.
increased competition in the USA, particularly from Pfizer’s
Medicines may be subject to competition from different therapies Zithromax, Bayer’s Cipro and Abbott’s Biaxin, and has lost patent
during the period of patent protection and, once off patent, from protection in various countries in Europe. Amoxilhas been without
generic versions. The manufacturers of generic products typically patent protection for a number of years and is subject to
donot bear research and development costs and consequently competition from generic brands.
areable to offer their products at considerably lower prices than
thebranded competitors. A research and development-based Anti-virals
pharmaceutical company will normally seek to achieve a sufficiently GlaxoSmithKline’s drive to create sustainable leadership in selected
high profit margin and sales volume during the period of patent therapy areas is underlined by its pioneering role in the HIV market,
protection to repay the original investment and to fund research with Retrovirand Epiviracting as the cornerstone of combination
forthe future. therapy, and available as Combivirin a single tablet. The launch of
Ziagenand Ageneraseand more recently Trizivirfurther broaden
Competition from generic products generally occurs as
theGroup’s portfolio of HIV products. Zoviraxfaces competition
GlaxoSmithKline’s patents in major markets expire. In response,
from generic acyclovir, although Valtrexhas helped strengthen the
GlaxoSmithKline undertakes a range of activities, including:
company’s position in the anti-herpes area.
• introducing innovative products into as many markets as possible
• accelerating the process by which new products are brought Metabolic and gastro-intestinal
tomarket Major competitors for Avandiaare Takeda Chemical’s Actos, which
• increasing brand share among customers. is co-promoted with Eli Lilly in the USA. In the gastro-intestinal
market, Zantacfaces significant competition from omeprazole, a
Ultimately, GlaxoSmithKline believes that its competitive position is
proton pump inhibitor, and from generic ranitidine hydrochloride.
dependent upon the discovery and development of new products,
together with effective marketing of existing products. Within the
Vaccines
pharmaceutical industry, the introduction of new products and
GlaxoSmithKline’s major competitors in the vaccine market include
processes by competitors may affect pricing levels or result in
Aventis Pasteur, Merck and American Home Products. Engerix-Band
product replacement, and there can be no assurance that
Havrixcompete with vaccines produced by Merck – Comvax and
GlaxoSmithKline’s products may not become outmoded,
Recombivax HB for hepatitis B and Vaqta for hepatitis A. Infanrix’s
notwithstanding patent or trademark protection. In addition,
major competitors are Aventis Pasteur’s Tripedia and TriHIBit, and
increasing government and other pressure for physicians
Wyeth Ayerst’s Acel-Imune and Tetramune.
and patients to use generic pharmaceuticals rather than
brand-name medicines may increase competition for products
Competition – Consumer Healthcare
that have gone off patent.
The major competitors in the consumer healthcare markets are
CNS disorders Procter & Gamble, Colgate-Palmolive, American Home Products,
Major competitors to Paxilin the US selective serotonin reuptake Unilever and Johnson & Johnson. All of these companies are major
inhibitor (SSRI) market are Prozac from Eli Lilly, Zoloft from Pfizer international companies and continue to be extremely active in
and Forest Laboratories’ Celexa. The success of Seroxat/Paxilhas what is a highly competitive market. In addition, there are many
made it a target for generic manufacturers, against whom other large and small companies that compete with
GlaxoSmithKline continues to respond appropriately (see note 31 GlaxoSmithKline in selected markets.
to the Financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’).
In the USA, the major competitor products in OTC medicines are:
Imigranhas grown to be one of GlaxoSmithKline’s leading products Tylenol Cold (cold remedy), Clearasil (acne treatment), Pepcid
through addressing the previously unmet needs of migraine (indigestion) and private label in smoking cessation. In the UK the
sufferers. Although other companies have launched competing major competitor products are: Lemsip (cold remedy), Nurofen and
products, newer formulations of Imigran,such as the nasal spray, Anadin (analgesics) and Nicotinell (smoking cessation remedy).
and the introduction of Naramighave helped GlaxoSmithKline to
In nutritional healthcare the major competitors to Horlicksare
retain its lead over its competitors in the migraine market.
Ovaltine and Milo malted food and chocolate drinks. The competitors
to Ribenaare primarily local fruit juice companies while Lucozade
Respiratory
competes with other energy drinks.
Growth of GlaxoSmithKline’s newer respiratory products, Flixotide,
Sereventand the recently launched Seretide, have continued to The Consumer Healthcare business relies on the development of
drive growth in this market. The established products such as high-quality branded products with good consumer acceptance,
Ventolinand Becotidehave faced generic competition for some supported by advertising and brand promotion, line extensions,
years but have maintained significant sales. A major competitor to newformulations and packaging innovations. GlaxoSmithKline’s
GlaxoSmithKline’s respiratory products is Singulair from Merck. ability to compete effectively is dependent on its skills in developing
new scientifically supported products and line extensions with
performance superior to those of its competitors, backed up by
compelling advertising.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 11
Regulation – Pharmaceuticals In the USA, debate over the reform of the healthcare system has
resulted in an increased focus on pricing. Although there are
The international pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated.
currently no government price controls over private sector purchases
National regulatory authorities administer a panoply of laws
in the USA, federal legislation requires pharmaceutical manufacturers
andregulations governing the testing, approval, manufacturing,
to pay prescribed rebates on certain drugs to enable them to be
labelling and marketing of drugs and also review the safety
eligible for reimbursement under Medicaid healthcare programmes.
andeffectiveness of pharmaceutical products. These regulatory
requirements are a major factor in determining whether a substance During 2000 the pharmaceutical market worldwide continued to
can be developed into a marketable product and the amount of experience increasing pressure on pricing and reimbursement from
time and expense associated with such development. governments and healthcare providers, though it is non-price factors
(new products and higher volumes) which are principally driving the
Of particular importance is the requirement in many countries that
growth of pharmaceutical expenditure.
products be authorised or registered prior to marketing and that
such authorisation or registration be maintained subsequently. In Europe, historically affected by government regulation in pricing
and reimbursement, the pharmaceutical industry continued to
The national regulatory authorities in many jurisdictions, including
experience pressure on its prices through a range of measures,
the USA, the European Union, Japan and Australia, have high
including across-the-board price cuts, linking of prices to low-cost
standards of technical appraisal and consequently the introduction
countries (price referencing) and delays in agreeing reimbursement.
of new pharmaceutical products generally entails a lengthy
There is an increasing pressure for generic substitution and
approvalprocess.
demonstration of the added value of new medicines. In some
In the European Union, there are two procedures for obtaining countries cross-border imports fromlow-priced markets exert a
marketing authorisations for medicinal products: commercial pressure on in-countrypricing.
• The Centralised Procedure, with applications made direct to In Japan the government has measures to curb the growth of
theEuropean Medicines Evaluation Agency and leading to an healthcare expenditure including biennial price cuts.
authorisation valid in all member states, is compulsory for
products derived from biotechnology and optional for new Value for money
activesubstances and other innovative medicinal products It is becoming increasingly necessary to demonstrate the value
• The Mutual Recognition Procedure, which is applicable to the formoney of new products, in particular the overall effect on
majority of conventional medicinal products, operates by mutual healthcare costs. In some markets, the need to satisfy healthcare
recognition of national marketing authorisations; where this is purchasers as to value for money is becoming a hurdle interms of
not possible, the matter is resolved by a binding arbitration. product acceptance additional to the regulatory tests ofsafety,
National authorisations are still available for medicinal products efficacy and quality.
to be marketed in only one member state.
In most markets it is difficult to obtain a premium price for new
Grant of a marketing authorisation affords the company a data chemical entities, even if they represent a significant improvement
protection period during which a competitor cannot rely on over existing therapy. In the USA, however, some new products
confidential data in the regulatory file as a basis for its own have been able to command prices reflecting a clear recognition
marketing authorisation. The data protection period begins on of their value.
thedate an authorisation is first granted in the European Union
andexpires after ten years for authorisations granted via the Future developments
Centralised Procedure, or ten or six years for authorisations It is not possible to predict whether, and to what extent, the
grantedvia the Mutual Recognition procedure, depending Group’sbusiness may be affected by future legislative and regulatory
onthecountry concerned. developments relating to specific pharmaceutical products or the
pricing of such products.
GlaxoSmithKline anticipates that the introduction of new products
will continue to require substantial effort, time and expense to
Regulation – Consumer Healthcare
comply with regulatory requirements.
The consumer healthcare industry is subject to national regulation
Price controls regarding the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and
In addition to the forms of regulation already referred to, in marketing of products. In many countries high standards of technical
manycountries the prices of pharmaceutical products are controlled appraisal entail a lengthy approval process before a new product is
by law. launched.
Governments may also influence the prices of pharmaceutical
National regulatory authorisation is also required to approve the
products through their control of national healthcare organisations
switch of products from prescription to OTC. The requirements
which may bear a large part of the cost of supplying such products
include long-term experience of the quality, safety and efficacy
to consumers.
oftheproduct in a wide patient population and data to confirm
In some countries, such as France and Japan, the prices of individual thatthe relevant condition is both self-limiting and can easily be
products are regulated. In the UK, prices are controlled by reference diagnosed bythe consumer.
to limits upon the overall profitability, measured by the rate of
return on capital employed, of sales of products supplied under the
National HealthService.12 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Operating activities
Marketing and distribution Promotion of GlaxoSmithKline’s products is supplemented by
scientific seminars, advertising in medical and other journals,
GlaxoSmithKline sells its products worldwide through an
television advertising, the provision of samples, the direct mailing
extensivenetwork of subsidiaries, licensees and distributors.
ofprinted material and information contained on the company’s
The gross profit margins earned on sales of pharmaceutical site on the World Wide Web.
products are generally higher than those earned on sales of
Direct-to-consumer (DTC) advertising is a major component of
consumer products, reflecting the many risks and uncertainties
product marketing in the USA. DTC advertisements are now the
inherent in developing and marketing pharmaceuticals. These risks
primary source of information for patients requesting specific brand
include the high level of research and development expenditure
name products from their physicians in the USA.
required to discover, test and obtain patent protection for new
products and the competition from new and generic products. Outside the USA, DTC is either prohibited or has a more limited
rolein informing patients. In the European Union and in Canada,
GlaxoSmithKline’s worldwide business is subject to a number of
DTC is currently prohibited. In Australia, the government allow DTC
risks inherent in conducting business in certain countries, including
advertising of pharmacy-only products subject to certain safeguards.
possible nationalisation, expropriation and other restrictive
In New Zealand, DTC is allowed and self regulated by the industry
government actions such as capital regulation. In addition, currency
in collaboration with the Advertising Standards Agency. Other
fluctuations and other changes in economic conditions occur from
markets allow DTC, but to date the impact has been more limited.
time to time, which can have either a favourable or unfavourable
effect on trading income. GlaxoSmithKline does not regard these In addition to the direct marketing of products by its subsidiaries
factors as deterrents to further expansion of its international and associates, GlaxoSmithKline has entered into agreements
operations. However, the company closely reviews its methods of withother pharmaceutical companies for the co-marketing and
operation, particularly in developing countries, and develops co-promotion of its products in many markets.
strategies to respond to changing economic and political conditions.
Marketing and distribution – Consumer Healthcare
Marketing and distribution – Pharmaceuticals The principal markets for Consumer Healthcare’s OTC medicines
An analysis of pharmaceutical sales by geographic region is set out arethe US, the UK, Germany, Australia, Argentina, Italy, Mexico,
below: Japan, South Africa and France. The nutritional drinks business is
particularly strong in the UK, Ireland and India, though the range
2000 1999 1998
Sales by geographic region £m £m £m ofproducts is available in other markets. The principal markets for
the Oral Care products are the US, Germany and the UK.
USA 7,705 6,276 5,635
Europe 4,268 4,288 4,059 OTC products are distributed to retail outlets directly or through
Rest of World: wholesalers.
Asia Pacific 1,049 929 876
Distribution of oral care and nutritional healthcare products are
Japan 832 704 592
made through a wide selection of outlets either directly or through
Latin America 682 636 662
wholesalers. The organisation of the selling teams is dependent
Middle East, Africa 511 461 468
onthe outlet pattern of individual countries.
Canada 382 324 271
15,429 13,618 12,563
GlaxoSmithKline sells its prescription medicines primarily to
wholesale drug distributors, independent and chain retail
pharmacies, physicians, hospitals, clinics, government entities and
other institutions. These products are ordinarily dispensed to the
public by pharmacies through prescriptions written by physicians.
In the USA, the world’s largest pharmaceutical market, the
pressureto contain healthcare costs has encouraged the growth of
managed care organisations and pharmacy benefit managers. These
intermediaries use a range of methods to lower costs, including the
substitution of generic products or other cheaper therapies for
branded products prescribed by doctors. GlaxoSmithKline contracts
with the managed care sector due to its increasing importance as a
supplier of healthcare to the community.
In each market, GlaxoSmithKline deploys sales forces of
representatives and supporting medical staff to promote its
prescription products to medical prescribers and healthcare
purchasers through personal visits.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 13
Manufacture and supply Consumer Healthcare supply. There are 24 Consumer Healthcare
manufacturing sites spread across 16 countries, employing around
GlaxoSmithKline has a portfolio of over 1,000 different products,
7,000 staff. The Consumer Healthcare supply chain is diverse and
ranging from tablets and toothpaste to inhalers and complex
includes the manufacturing and supply of OTC medicines, oral care,
capsules, in over 32,000 different pack sizes and presentations.
nutritional healthcare and smoking cessation products.
Manufacture of medicines begins with the development of a
therapeutic active ingredient in a selected formulation. Global Strategic Master Plan
Manufacture & Supply (GMS) develops manufacturing processes The Strategic Master Plan (SMP) is a long-term programme of
forfull scale volume production of active compounds at ‘primary’ integrated changes to enhance competitiveness and productivity
manufacturing sites. Converting active compounds into a finished in Glaxo Wellcome manufacturing sites announced in October
dosage formulation is the responsibility of the ‘secondary’ 1999. It is based around three interdependent initiatives –
manufacturing sites. Manufacturing Excellence, Network Rationalisation and
Procurement Excellence, applied across the whole network
Following the merger between Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline
ofmanufacturing and supply locations.
Beecham in December 2000, GMS operates as a single global
network of 108 sites in 41countries employing over 39,000 people. The programme includes using LeanSigma tools and techniques
Each year GMS produces around 5,900 tonnes of bulk actives and to challenge current ways of working. As well as the forecast
over 3.8 billion packs, which are packaged and delivered for sale in financial benefits this leads to improvements in areas such as
138 countries. It also manages approximately 1,800 new product reduced cycle time, increased productivity and improved delivery
launches a year. performance. SMP implementation is proceeding as planned for
completion in 2003.
GMS is focused on delivering:
• a secure source of supply of high quality products Global Supply initiative
• compliance with regulatory requirements and customer Global Supply Initiative (GSI) is a four year programme, announced
expectations in February 1999, to restructure the SmithKline Beecham supply
• best in class cost network to align manufacturing strategy with business needs
• leading edge practices and performance – at sites, through network rationalisation and purchasing initiatives.
inprocurement and in other global functions. Implementation is at an advanced stage, with 65 per cent of
benefits delivered. Sites at Plelan, France; Camacari, Brazil;
Organisation Toledo, Spain and Baranzate, Italy were sold during 2000.
GMS operations are structured into Supply Chains and Regions.
GlaxoSmithKline integration
Actives supply.The active ingredients of non-antibiotic products
The merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
are produced at ten sites across the network, located in Australia,
manufacturing and supply organisations presents synergy
India, Ireland, Singapore, the UK and the USA. Approximately 3,750
opportunities in addition to the significant savings already forecast
staff are employed in manufacturing and supplying these active
from the Glaxo Wellcome SMP and SmithKline Beecham GSI
ingredients to the secondary pharmaceutical sites.
programmes. SMP and GSI implementation programmes will be
Antibiotics supply. This is a global organisation with 18 sites, aligned with integration related changes to deliver these synergies
spread across 11 countries. In total, around 6,200 staff are while maintaining security of supply.
employed across all of these sites, where a broad range of
antibiotic products are manufactured and packaged. Vaccines
Vaccine production is located principally at Rixensart, Belgium and
European region. There are 15 sites in the European region spread
at Dresden, Germany.
across nine countries employing around 9,250 people in total.
Between them the European sites manufacture nearly all of the
External suppliers
major pharmaceutical products marketed by GlaxoSmithKline
Procurement is a global function supporting all functions and
inawide variety of finished dosage forms.
areasof the GlaxoSmithKline business. Manufacturing is one of
North America region. There are three pharmaceutical sites in the thelargest areas with over £2 billion spend with external suppliers
North America region located in Puerto Rico, Canada and the USA. every year, including the purchase of active ingredients, chemical
These sites employ around 1,750 staff. intermediates, part finished and finished products. GMS has taken
appropriate steps to protect its supply chains from any disruption
International region. The International region comprises 38
resulting from interrupted external supply through appropriate stock
manufacturing sites in 20 countries spread across five distinct
holding, contracting and alternative registered suppliers.
areas and employs around 10,600 people. There are five sites
inMiddle East/Africa, 19 sites spread across the Asia Pacific area,
Block Drug
five sites in China and two in Japan. In Latin America there
The acquisition of Block Drug Company Inc in January 2001 has
areseven sites.
added seven further sites and over 1,450 employees to GMS, within
the Consumer Healthcare Supply chain.14 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Research and development – Pharmaceuticals A number of significant regulatory submissions were made during
2000. In the USA these included:
The global biological and pharmaceutical Research and
Development (R&D) function in GlaxoSmithKline is responsible for • the first submission for GI198745, a 5-alpha reductase inhibitor
the generation of information and the acquisition of knowledge for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia, submitted to
required to discover, develop, register, commercialise and effectively the FDA in late December 2000
market innovative prescription medicines, vaccines and delivery • a submission for a non-CFC metered dose inhaler formulation of
systems for the treatment and prevention of human disease. Advairfor asthma
• a submission for the use of Avandiain combination with insulin,
Fundamental to this goal is a thorough understanding of the
for the treatment of type 2 diabetes
diseases under investigation, increasingly through original work
• a revised submission for an extra strength formulation of the
ingenetics and predictive medicine research. In addition to the
antibiotic Augmentin for use in children
work to create new medicines and vaccines, extensive efforts are
• a submission for a sustained release formulation of the antibiotic
made to gain a clear understanding of the unmet needs of
Augmentinfor use in adults (both Europe and USA)
patientsand healthcare providers as a contribution to the overall
• a submission for the adolescent use of intranasal Imitrexfor the
direction of R&D.
treatment of migraine
In 2000 Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham together invested • submissions for Seroxat/Paxilfor the treatment of Generalised
over £2.4 billion in pharmaceuticals R&D. Anxiety Disorder and Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder
• submissions for Infanrix PeNta 5, a combined diptheria, tetanus,
Approximately 16,000 staff are involved in biological and
pertussis, polio and hepatitis B paediatric prophylactic vaccine
pharmaceutical R&D activities, at more than 20 sites worldwide.
• a submission for Twinrix, a combined hepatitis A and B
These sites include:
prophylactic vaccine
• UK: Beckenham, Cambridge, Dartford, Greenford, • in addition, the BLA for Bexxar, a novel treatment for non-
Harlow, Stevenage, Tonbridge, Ware, Welwyn Hodgkins lymphoma, was re-submitted to the FDA in September
Garden City and is now under priority review.
• USA: Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; Philadelphia,
In Europe significant regulatory submissions in 2000 included:
Upper Merion and Upper Providence, Pennsylvania;
• a once-daily dosing regimen for Epivirfor HIV infections
Santa Clara and Palo Alto, California
• the fluoroquinolone antibiotic Factive
• Belgium: Rixensart
• a malaria prophylaxis indication for Malarone.
• Canada: Mississauga
• France: Les Ulis, Rennes The product development pipeline, set out on pages 16–19, shows
• Italy: Verona, Milan considerable breadth and depth.
• Japan: Tsukuba Science City and Takasaki
During 2000 several discovery projects were progressed through
• Spain: Madrid
non-clinical safety testing and into early (Phase I) clinical
• Switzerland:Geneva.
development. These are listed in the table opposite.
During 2000 a significant amount of work in R&D went into
These compounds are now undergoing rigorous non-clinical, clinical
preparing plans and procedures for the optimal integration of key
and commercial assessments leading to ‘proof of concept’ decisions
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham R&D processes, so that
over the next 12–18 months.
GlaxoSmithKline would be able to operate effectively and efficiently
from day one of the merger. Despite the resources devoted to these In addition to those compounds identified in the table opposite, the
activities, several significant new medicines were delivered on following compounds were also in-licensed during 2000:
schedule to the markets.
• GW650250, a mixed monoamine re-uptake inhibitor in Phase II
development, in-licensed from NeuroSearch in January 2000
Product approvals and submissions
• SB596168, a selective RNA polymerase inhibitor in Phase II
In 2000 approvals were received for a number of new medicines
development, for the treatment of solid tumours, in-licensed
and vaccines as well as several significant new indications and
from Taiho in July 2000
formulations for existing products, as summarised in the
• repifermin, keratinocyte growth factor-2 in Phase II development,
tableopposite.
for wound care, mucositis and the treatment of inflammatory bowel
A number of other approvals were also received during 2000. disease, in-licensed from Human Genome Sciences in October2000
Notable among these were US approvals for Malarone, a • SB683698, a dual alpha4 integrin antagonist entering Phase II
combination of atovaquone and proguanil to treat and prevent development, for the treatment of a range of inflammatory diseases
malarial infections and for the paediatric use of Relenzato treat including asthma, rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease
influenza. European and US approvals were also received for and multiple sclerosis, in-licensed from Tanabe in December 2000.
a2mgchewable-dispersible tablet formulation of Lamictalfor the
In February 2001 GlaxoSmithKline completed two further
treatment of paediatric epilepsy.
in-licensing agreements. The first was with E Merck for SB659746,
a SSRI + 5HT1a receptor partial agonist in Phase II development for
the treatment of depression and other mood disorders. The second
was with Sepsicure for GR270773, a phospholipid anti-endotoxin
emulsion entering Phase II development for the treatment of sepsis.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 15
Products delivered to market
Approval date
Product (Country/Region) Description
Advair August 2000 (USA) A dry powder combination formulation of the long-acting bronchodilator salmeterol and
the glucocorticoid anti-inflammatory agent fluticasone in the Diskusdelivery system for
the treatment of asthma
Agenerase October 2000 (Europe) A potent protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV infections
Avandia July 2000 (Europe) A selective (PPAR agonist) oral combination treatment for type 2 diabetes in specific
sub-groups of patients in combination with metformin or sulphonylurea
Flovent September 2000 (USA) A dry powder formulation of fluticasone in the multi-dose Diskusdelivery system for the
Diskus treatment of asthma
Infanrix HeXa October 2000 (Europe) A conjugated, recombinant paediatric vaccine for diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B,
inactivated polio prophylaxis and H. influenzaetype B prophylaxis
Infanrix PeNta October 2000 (Europe) A recombinant paediatric vaccine for diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, and
inactivated polio prophylaxis
Seretide June 2000 (UK, as Viani) A non-CFC metered dose inhaler formulation of the long-acting bronchodilator salmeterol
December 2000 (Europe) and the glucocorticoid anti-inflammatory agent fluticasone for the treatment of asthma
Seroxat September 2000 (Europe) A selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor for the treatment of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder
Seroxat November 2000 (Europe) A selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor for the treatment of Generalised Anxiety Disorder
Trizivir November 2000 (USA) A combination of three reverse transcriptase inhibitors in a single tablet that will
January 2001 (Europe) significantly reduce the ‘pill burden’ and improve compliance for patients with HIV infections
Compounds progressed into Phase I clinical development
Compound Mechanism Indication
GW473178 thrombin inhibitor atrial fibrillation and venous thrombosis
GW501516 peroxisome proliferator-activator receptor agonist dyslipidaemia
GW660511 ACE/NEP inhibitor hypertension (in-licensed from Zambon in October 2000)
SB 435495 Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis
SB 207266 5HT receptor antagonist atrial fibrillation
SB 273005 osteoclast vitronectin receptor antagonist osteoporosis & rheumatoid arthritis
SB 418790 beta3 adrenergic receptor agonist type 2 diabetes and obesity (in-licensed from Asahi in
February 2000)
GW406381 second generation COX-2 inhibitor inflammatory pain
GW468816 glycine receptor antagonist migraine prophylaxis & smoking cessation
SB 641257 reversible proton pump inhibitor gastro-esopahgeal reflux disease (in-licensed from Yuhan
in October2000)
GW572016 Erb-B2 & EGRF dual kinase inhibitor solid tumours
GW150013 CCK-B receptor antagonist anxiety disorders
GW597599 NK1 receptor antagonist depression
Vaccines conjugated vaccine prophylaxis against S. pneumoniae infections in the elderly
population
recombinant vaccine prophylaxis against hepatitis E
subunit vaccine prophylaxis against influenza with new delivery method
Discontinuations
Following a request from the FDA, Lotronex, a treatment for irritable bowel syndrome, was voluntarily withdrawn from the US market in
November 2000. This step was taken after in-depth discussions with the FDA about the interpretation of data relating to gastro-intestinal
sideeffects which have occurred among patients treated with the product. These have included rare reports of fatalities, although no
causalrelationship with Lotronexhas been established. Regulatory submissions in the rest of the world have now also been withdrawn.
The final analysis of data from the second of two Phase III clinical trials with GV150526, a glycine antagonist for the acute treatment of
stroke, demonstrated no difference in clinical outcome from that seen with placebo and further work with this product has now been
stopped. In addition, development of lotrafiban, an oral platelet aggregation inhibitor was stopped because of concerns over the safety
ofthecompound.16 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Product development pipeline – as published in February 2001
Key
MAA Marketing authorisation application (EU) Phase I Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted in volunteers
NDA New drug application (USA) Phase II Determination of dose and initial evaluation of efficacy, conducted
* New indications and line extensions for marketed product inasmall number of patients
(v) Vaccine Phase III Large comparative study (compound versus placebo and/or established
(p) Pharmaccine treatment) in patients to establish clinical benefit and safety
S Date of first submission to regulatory agency
A Date of first regulatory approval (for MAA, this is the first
EUapproval date)
AL Approvable letter
† Label update
Estimated filing dates
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Anti-microbials & Host Defence
SB 275833 bacterial protein synthesis inhibitor (BPSI) prevention of recurrent sinusitis I
SB 249417 anti-Factor IX monoclonal antibody severe sepsis & septic shock (also stroke) I
Factive broad spectrum fluoroquinolone antibiotic respiratory tract infections – i.v. formulation III 2003 2003
Factive broad spectrum fluoroquinolone antibiotic respiratory & urinary tract infections – Submitted S:Feb00 S:Dec99
oral formulation
Bactroban nasopharyngeal BPSI prevention of recurrent sinusitis II
tafenoquine(SB 252263) 8-aminoquinoline malaria prophylaxis (adults) III 2002 2002
Augmentin SR beta lactam antibiotic respiratory tract infections Submitted S:Dec00 S:Dec00
(incl. penicillin-resistant S. pneumoniae)
– modified release formulation
Augmentin ES beta lactam antibiotic acute otitis media (incl. penicillin-resistant Submitted N/A S:Oct97
S. pneumoniae) – paediatric high-dose suspension
Malarone electron transport system inhibitor malaria treatment & prophylaxis Approved S:Sep00 A:Jul00
Anti-virals
GR270773 phospholipid anti-endotoxin emulsion sepsis II
Ziagen reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV infection – in combination with Epivir II 2003 2003
GW433908 protease inhibitor; Agenerase pro-drug HIV infection III 2002 2002
Epivir reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV infection – once daily dosing Submitted S:Sep00 2001
Trizivir Epivir/Retrovir/Ziagen combination tablet HIV infection Approved A:Jan01 A:Nov00
Zeffix reverse transcriptase inhibitor paediatric hepatitis B III 2001 2001
Valtrex/Zelitrex nucleoside analogue cold sores III N/A 2001
Valtrex/Zelitrex nucleoside analogue HSV suppression in immunocompromised patients III N/A 2002
Valtrex/Zelitrex nucleoside analogue prevention of HSV transmission III 2002 2002
Relenza neuraminidase inhibitor influenza prophylaxis III 2001 2001
Relenza neuraminidase inhibitor influenza treatment in patients with asthma/COPD† III 2001 2001
Cardiovascular & Urogenital
GW409544 PPAR alpha/gamma dual agonist dyslipidaemia I
GW473178 thrombin inhibitor atrial fibrillation & venous thrombosis I
GW501516 PPAR agonist dyslipidaemia I
GW660511 ACE/NEP inhibitor hypertension I
SB 223412 tachykinin (NK3) receptor antagonist urinary incontinence (also COPD) I
SB 249417 anti-Factor IX monoclonal antibody stroke (also severe sepsis & septic shock) I
SB 424323 indirect thrombin inhibitor atrial fibrillation & stroke prevention I
SB 435495 Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis I
SB 207266 5HT receptor antagonist atrial fibrillation II
4
SB 237376 potassium-calcium channel blocker cardiac arrhythmia II
enrasentan (SB 217242) endothelial cell receptor antagonist congestive heart failure II 2004 2004
telmisartan angiotensin II antagonist hypertension – in combination with III 2001 N/A
hydrochlorothiazide
GI198745 5-alpha reductase inhibitor benign prostatic hyperplasia (also alopecia) Submitted 2001 S:Dec00
GI198745 5-alpha reductase inhibitor alopecia (also BPH) II
Tranilast endothelial cell proliferation/migration inhibitor restenosis III 2001 2001
Coreg beta blocker severe heart failure III N/A 2001Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 17
Estimated filing dates
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Metabolic & Musculoskeletal
repifermin Keratinocyte Growth Factor-2 wound care & IBD II
GI181771 CCK-A receptor agonist obesity & gallstone prophylaxis I
GW427353 beta3 adrenergic receptor agonist type 2 diabetes & obesity I
SB 418790 beta3 adrenergic receptor agonist type 2 diabetes & obesity I
GI262570 PPAR gamma agonist type 2 diabetes III 2003 2003
Avandia insulin action enhancer type 2 diabetes – in combination with insulin Submitted S:Feb00
SB 273005 osteoclast vitronectin receptor antagonist osteoporosis (also rheumatoid arthritis) I
Neurology & Gastro-intestinal
GW273293 sodium channel inhibitor epilepsy (also bipolar disorder) II
GW406381 Cox-2 inhibitor (second generation) pain including inflammatory pain I
GW468816 glycine receptor antagonist migraine prophylaxis (also smoking cessation) I
SB 204269 anticonvulsant epilepsy ll
SB 271046 5HT receptor antagonist cognitive impairment I
6
SB 641257 (YH 1885) reversible proton pump antagonist gastro-esophageal reflux disease I
ReQuip non-ergot dopamine agonist Parkinson’s disease – controlled release formulation II 2003 2003
nabumetone Q non-steroidal anti-inflammatory osteoarthritis & pain III 2002 2002
Imigran/Imitrex 5HT agonist migraine – needle-free injection formulation II 2003 2003
1
Imigran/Imitrex 5HT agonist adolescent migraine – nasal formulation Submitted S:Feb00 S:Dec99
1
Naramig/Amerge 5HT agonist menstrual migraine prophylaxis III 2001 2001
1
Oncology
GW572016 Erb-B2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor solid tumours I
SB 251353 CXC chemokine prevention of chemotherapy-induced cytopaenias I
& stem cell mobilisation
SB 408075 tumour activated pro-drug colorectal cancer – second line therapy I 2004
(maytansine-antibody conjugate)
SB 596168 selective RNA polymerase inhibitor solid tumours II
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor colorectal cancer – second line therapy II 2004 2004
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell & non-small cell lung cancer II 2004 2004
– first line therapy
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor myelodysplastic syndrome III 2001 2001
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer – oral second line therapy III 2002 2002
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor ovarian cancer – first line therapy III 2004
Bexxar I131radiolabelled anti-B1 monoclonal antibody non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma Submitted N/A S:Sep00
Psychiatry
GW468816 glycine receptor antagonist smoking cessation (also migraine) I
GW150013 CCK-B receptor antagonist anxiety disorders ll
GW597599 NK1 receptor antagonist depression I
SB 243213 5HT receptor antagonist depression I
2c
SB659746A (EMD68843) SSRI + 5HT receptor partial agonist depression ll 2004
1a
GW320659 (1555U88) noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitor attention deficit hyperactivity disorder II 2004
GW650250 mixed monoamine reuptake inhibitor depression II
Seroxat/Paxil selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor depression – dispersible tablets III 2002 TBD
Seroxat/Paxil CR selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor premenstrual dysphoric disorder – controlled III TBD 2002
release formulation
Seroxat/Paxil selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor generalised anxiety disorders Approved A:Nov00 S:Apr00
Seroxat/Paxil selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor post-traumatic stress disorder Approved A:Sep00 S:Jul0018 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Estimated filing dates
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Respiratory & Inflammation
GW328267 adenosine A2 agonist asthma & COPD I
fluticasone/salmeterol beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid rhinitis – intranasal combination product I 2003 2003
SB 223412 tachykinin (NK3) receptor antagonist COPD (also urinary incontinence) I
SB 683698 (TR14035) dual alpha4 integrin antagonist (VLA4) asthma & rheumatoid arthritis II
SB 273005 osteoclast vitronectin receptor antagonist rheumatoid arthritis (also osteoporosis) I
Ariflo PDE lV inhibitor asthma II
Ariflo PDE lV inhibitor COPD III TBD 2002
mepolizumab (SB240563) anti-IL 5 monoclonal antibody asthma – steroid sparing II
Flovent inhaled corticosteroid asthma – once daily dosing III N/A 2001
Flixotide/Flovent inhaled corticosteroid COPD Approved A:Sep99 2001
Non-CFC Metered Dose Inhaler propellants (GR106642)
Serevent beta2 agonist asthma & COPD III 2003 2003
Flixotide/Flovent inhaled corticosteroid asthma & COPD Approved A:Apr97 2001
Ventolin beta2 agonist asthma & COPD Approved A:Jun97 AL:Jan01
Seretide/Advair beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid asthma Approved A:Jun00 S:Dec00
Diskus/Accuhaler (dry powder inhaler)
Seretide/Advair beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid COPD III 2001 2001
Seretide/Advair beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid paediatric asthma Approved A:Sep98 2002
Seretide/Advair beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid asthma – first line therapy III 2001 2001
Serevent beta2 agonist COPD III 2001 2001
Ventolin beta2 agonist asthma & COPD Approved A:Dec95 AL:Jul00
Hepatitis Vaccines (child/adol.)
Twinrix2 doses recombinant combined hepatitis A and B prophylaxis (child/adol.) III 2001 2002
Twinrix3 doses (US) recombinant combined hepatitis A and B prophylaxis (adults) Submitted N/A Submitted
Extra strength hepatitis B recombinant extra strength hepatitis B prophylaxis III 2001 TBD
(poor/non-responders)
Hepatitis E recombinant hepatitis E prophylaxis I
Paediatric Vaccines
Infanrix PeNta-HepB-IPV recombinant diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B and Approved Approved Submitted
inactivated polio prophylaxis
Infanrix HeXa-Hep B-IPV/Hib conjugated/recombinant diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, Approved Approved TBD
inactivated polio prophylaxis and Haemophilus
influenzae type B prophylaxis
S. pneumoniae paediatric conjugated S. pneumoniae disease prophylaxis for children III 2003
MMR – varicella live attenuated measles, mumps, rubella and varicella prophylaxis III 2002 TBD
Rotarix live attenuated – oral rotavirus prophylaxis II 2004 2004
N. meningitidis A/C conjugated meningitis prophylaxis II 2004
Meningitis B (Cuba) subunit meningitis B prophylaxis ll TBD
Other Vaccines
Boostrix subunit adolescent/adult booster for diphtheria, tetanus Approved Approved 2002
and pertussis
Epstein-Barr Virus recombinant EBV prophylaxis II
Malaria recombinant malaria prophylaxis II
Human papillomavirus recombinant prophylaxis of HPV infections II
Simplirix recombinant genital herpes prophylaxis II
New influenza subunit influenza prophylaxis (new delivery) I 2004
HIV recombinant HIV prophylaxis I
S. pneumoniae elderly conjugated S. pneumoniae disease prophylaxis I
Pharmaccines for Treatment of Chronic Infectious Diseases or Cancer
SB M00026 recombinant treatment of chronic hepatitis B II
SB 249553 recombinant treatment of lung cancer/melanoma II
GW419458 DISC treatment of genital herpes II
GW/PowderJect recombinant hepatitis B treatment IDescription of businessGlaxoSmithKline 19
Summary of pipeline
Phase I Phase II Phase III Filed
SB 275833 Bactroban* Factive* Factive
SB 249417 Ziagen* tafenoquine (SB 252263) Augmentin*
GW409544 SB 207266 GW433908 Malarone*
GW473178 SB 237376 Zeffix* Epivir*
GW501516 enrasentan (SB 217242) Valtrex/Zelitrex* Trizivir
GW660511 GI198745 Relenza* GI198745
SB 223412 ReQuip* telmisartan* Imigran/Imitrex*
SB 424323 Imigran/Imitrex* Tranilast Bexxar
SB 435495 Hycamtin* GI262570 Seroxat/Paxil*
GI181771 GW320659 (1555U88) nabumetone Q* Flixotide/Flovent*
GW427353 GW650250 Naramig/Amerge* Ventolin*
SB 418790 mepolizumab (SB 240563) Hycamtin* Seretide/Advair*
SB 273005 GR270773 Seroxat/Paxil* Avandia*
GW406381 GW273293 Ariflo Twinrix3 doses (v)
GW468816 SB 596168 Flovent* Infanrix PeNta– Hep B-IPV (v)
SB 271046 SB 683698 (TR14035) Serevent* Infanrix HeXa– Hep B-IPV/Hib (v)
SB 641257 (YH1885) Ariflo Seretide/Advair* Boostrix(v)
GW572016 repifermin Coreg*
SB 251353 SB 204269 Twinrix 2 doses(v)
SB 408075 GW150013 Extra strength Hepatitis B (v)
GW597599 SB 659746A (EMD 68843) S pneumoniae (v)
SB 243213 N. Meningitidis A/C (v) MMR-varicella (v)
GW328267 Rotarix(v)
fluticasone/salmeterol* Epstein-Barr virus (v)
SB 223412 Malaria (v)
Hepatitis E (v) Human papilloma virus (v)
New Influenza (v) Simplirix(v)
HIV (v) Meningitis B (Cuba) (v)
S. pneumoniae (v) SB-M00026 (p)
GW/PowderJect technology (p) SB 249553 (p)
GW419458 (p)
The content of the drug development portfolio will change over time as new compounds progress from discovery to development and from
development to the market. Owing to the nature of the drug development process, it is not unusual for some compounds, especially those
in early stages of investigation, to be terminated as they progress through development.
For competitive reasons, new projects in pre-clinical development have not been disclosed and some project types may not have been identified.20 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
R&D processes Complementary to these new technologies has been the work
Much of the process re-design work conducted by Glaxo Wellcome carried out in Glaxo Wellcome over the past three years to develop
and SmithKline Beecham in earlier years has now been fully ways of associating disease with a patient’s genetic make up.
implemented within R&D. In both organisations the focus during GlaxoSmithKline now aims to identify the genes most relevant to
2000 was on the consolidation of these new processes within a common diseases with large unmet medical needs, such as asthma,
unified GlaxoSmithKline organisation. Considerable effort has gone non-insulin dependent diabetes, migraine, osteoarthritis, metabolic
into aligning quantitative performance measures with the new syndrome, depression, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, early
processes, so that the productivity of R&D can be effectively onset heart disease and Alzheimer’s disease. To further these
monitored in terms of the value added to the overall business. initiatives, large international collaborative studies have now been
There are already benefits from these initiatives and many high initiated for six of these diseases. These networks bring together
quality new molecules are now in early clinical assessment. There clinicians and other experts in the diagnosis of these diseases with
isalso good evidence from independent benchmarking that both centres skilled in analysing genetic and clinical data.
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham have some of the fastest
Many of the applications of genetic science to healthcare will
product development times within the industry.
bedriven by single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) high-density
The learnings from previous re-design work have been brought into mapping. This new technology can be likened to a road map, with
full effect within GlaxoSmithKline so that the traditional functional SNPs acting as signposts that tell scientists where they are on the
barriers between Research, Development, Commercial and genome. Both Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham were
Manufacturing no longer exist within the organisation. Several members of The SNP Consortium launched in April 1999. The
keymulti-disciplinary matrix organisations have been created to consortium, which comprises 12 pharmaceutical and technology
ensure continuity across the whole discovery to launch process. companies, five academic centres and The Wellcome Trust, is
These include: producing an ordered high-density SNP map of the human genome.
This work has progressed ahead of schedule, and the data are
• Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery to effectively integrate
being placed in the public domain.
late-stage research and early-stage development
• New Product Development to integrate clinical, regulatory and
Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery
commercial activities
Both Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham have experimented
• New Product Supply to align the scale-up and subsequent
with a number of ways to manage drug discovery in order to
manufacture of the physical product.
optimise the progression of new medicines. During 2000, it was
These are described in more detail below. agreed that, for GlaxoSmithKline, a novel approach to the
integration of late-stage discovery and early-stage development –
There is now a clear focus on a unified approach to the generation
the critical drug discovery phase – would be adopted. This
and demonstration of commercial product value to customers.
approachis based on a sound understanding of the creative and
These customers include patients, healthcare professionals, budget
entrepreneurial environment needed to enhance the scientific
holders and regulators, and each population has its own needs
knowledge and expertise required to discover new drugs of
in terms of assessing the value of a new product. R&D is now
provenvalue.
positioned to ensure that, as well as developing the right products,
it also generates the right information about these products. Six Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery (CEDDs) have been
Increasingly this means not only safety, efficacy and quality created in GlaxoSmithKline, each focusing on specific disease areas,
information but also evidence of product value through measures as summarised below:
such as overall reductions in healthcare utilisation, increasing length
• Anti-bacterials & Host Defence, centred in Upper Providence
or quality of life and increased workplace productivity.
(USA)
• Cardiovascular, Cancer and Urogenital, centred in Upper
Early drug discovery and new technologies
Merion (USA)
Over the past five years both Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline
• Metabolic, Musculoskeletal & Viral Diseases, centred in
Beecham invested heavily in establishing and integrating new
Research Triangle Park (USA)
technologies that will harness the full therapeutic potential offered
• Neurology, centred in Harlow (UK)
by the elucidation of the human genome. High-throughput (HT)
• Psychiatry, centred in Verona (Italy)
technologies such as HT gene sequencing, HT chemistry and HT
• Respiratory, Inflammation and Respiratory Pathogens,
screening are now fully established and mean that GlaxoSmithKline
centred in Stevenage (UK).
has substantial resources to identify significant numbers of novel
molecular targets, make structurally diverse compounds and CEDDs have the autonomy to select new compounds from either
efficiently screen these compounds against such targets. In addition, internal or external sources. Each CEDD is responsible for selecting
HT biology technologies will help us determine the most relevant the optimal candidate from a series of similar chemical compounds
therapeutic applications of new drugs modulating pathological and for ensuring this candidate is safe in animal models and can
mechanisms that may underpin several different diseases. These bedeveloped from a technical perspective. Once this is achieved,
technologies are the cornerstone of activities within Genetics and the CEDDs are responsible for conducting the pre-clinical and
Discovery Research and are designed to provide asteady stream of earlyclinical work required to prove that the compound is safe
validated drug targets and suitable series of leadcompounds to the andefficacious in patients – the proof-of-concept or provision-of-
newly-created Centres of Excellence forDrug Discovery. confidence decision point. Following a thorough senior review of
the information generated, a decision is then made to progress the
compound into late stage drug development where the necessary
large-scale clinical trials are conducted to successfully register and
commercialise the product.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 21
New product development Animals and research
To provide focus for the development and commercialisation For ethical, scientific and legal reasons, animal experimentation
process, which must proceed in unison, all the major functional remains essential in the discovery and subsequent safety evaluation
components, Medical, Regulatory and Product Strategy, have been of new medicines. GlaxoSmithKline policy is to replace animal
integrated into one management organisation. Late-stage product experiments where at all possible and use alternatives such as
development in both Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham was invitrocell culture or computer modelling techniques. If animal
organised by therapeutic areas and eight such areas have been experiments are unavoidable, our approach is to seek to reduce
identified for GlaxoSmithKline: thenumber of animals used, through improved techniques and
methodology. Examples of this approach include:
• Anti-microbials & Host Defence
• Anti-virals • the use of transgenic animals bred with genetic changes that
• Cardiovascular & Urogenital better model human disease
• Metabolic & Musculoskeletal • work to use non-invasive imaging to understand pathological
• Neurology & Gastro-intestinal processes and the effects of experimental drugs in far fewer
• Oncology animals than are required by traditional in vivopharmacological
• Psychiatry methods
• Respiratory & Inflammation. • the development of more sensitive assay methodologies to
reduce the number of animals required to assess the effects of
Worldwide vaccines R&D is conducted by the Biologicals Division,
novel drug candidates.
located principally at Rixensart, Belgium. It is managed
independently from pharmaceuticals development. However, Additionally, every effort is made to minimise discomfort in those
essentially similar approaches to development are adopted for animals used for such studies.
bothvaccines and prescription medicines.
Research and development – Consumer Healthcare
The eight pharmaceutical therapy areas and vaccines development
are managed by cross-functional matrix teams responsible for The principal centres for Consumer Healthcare research and
maximising the worldwide development opportunities for each development are in the UK and in the USA. Consumer Healthcare
product. The teams work to ensure that there is alignment liaises closely with Pharmaceuticals to ensure that commercial
betweenregional marketing needs and the clinical and commercial opportunities in the OTC field are identified as quickly as possible.
information generated for a new product as it is developed. The GlaxoSmithKline also pursues, whenever possible, opportunities to
teams also collaborate at an early stage with integrated technical switch prescription products to OTC products.
development and manufacturing functions to ensure rapid, effective
launch and delivery of the product.
By increasingly incorporating genetic research into clinical trials
ofnew and innovative medicines, GlaxoSmithKline will enable
healthcare providers to prescribe medicines more accurately based
on a patient’s predicted response profile (in terms of both drug
safety and efficacy). In addition, genetic research will enable a
better understanding of the causes of common diseases. Many such
diseases arise through complex interactions between a number of
gene variants and environmental factors. Identifying the genes that
predispose patients to a particular disease and understanding their
role in disease progression will lead to the identification of new
ways to intervene in these diseases. This understanding will also
provide greater confidence that existing drug targets are relevant
tothe disease.
New product supply
The efficient delivery and rapid worldwide uptake of our new
products are closely linked to their ease of manufacture. Such issues
as scale-up and manufacturing technology are considered at an
early stage of product development, so that the process of moving
from small-scale production of experimental materials for early
clinical studies through to large-scale industrial manufacturing for
product supply can be fast and efficient. This is the responsibility of
‘New Product Supply’, a partnership between R&D preclinical staff
and Global Manufacturing & Supply. The partnership ensures that
the Development organisation delivers a product that has already
been optimised in terms of large-scale commercial manufacturing.22 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Operating resources
Intellectual property – Pharmaceuticals
The table below sets out patent expiry dates for the active ingredients in significant GlaxoSmithKline products.
Therapeutic area Product Active ingredient(s) Patent expiry dates for active ingredient(s) in major countries
CNS disorders Seroxat/Paxil paroxetine During or after 2006
Wellbutrin bupropion Basic compound patents have expired. Formulation patents will expire
during or after 2013
Imigran/Imitrex sumatriptan During or after 2003 (USA 2006/8)
Naramig/Amerge naratriptan During or after 2010
Lamictal lamotrigine During or after 2005
Requip ropinirole During or after 2007
Zyban bupropion Basic compound patents have expired. Formulation patents will expire
during or after 2013
Respiratory Flixotide/Flovent fluticasone propionate During or after 2003
Serevent salmeterol xinafoate During or after 2003 (USA 2008)
Seretide/Advair fluticasone propionate Patents covering the combination will expire during or after 2010
& salmeterol xinafoate
Flixonase/Flonase fluticasone propionate During or after 2003
Anti-bacterials Augmentin co-amoxiclav Basic compound patents have expired, with the exception of the USA
(2017), France (2002) and Italy (2007)
Zinnat/Ceftin cefuroxime axetil Patents to cefuroxime axetil per se have generally expired, although
SPCs exist in Europe until 2002. Patents on the amorphous form of
cefuroxime axetil will expire during or after 2003
Fortum/Fortaz ceftazidime Basic compound patents have expired
Amoxil amoxycillin Basic compound patents have expired
Anti-virals Combivir lamivudine + zidovudine Patents on the combination of the two active ingredients
will expire during or after 2012
Epivir lamivudine During or after 2009
Retrovir zidovudine Basic compound patents have expired. Patents on use in HIV infection
will expire during or after 2005
Ziagen abacavir During or after 2009
Agenerase amprenavir During or after 2013
Valtrex valaciclovir During or after 2009
Zovirax aciclovir Basic compound patents have expired
Zeffix/Epivir-HBV lamivudine During or after 2009
Relenza zanamivir During or after 2013
Metabolic and Avandia rosiglitazone During or after 2013
gastro-intestinal Zantac ranitidine Basic compound patents have expired.
Oncology Zofran ondansetron During or after 2005. During or after 2006 for patents to its use in
and emesis emesis
The patent position on Hepatitis vaccines (Engerixand Havrix) and on Infanrixand LYMErixis highly complex. GlaxoSmithKline is licensed under
several US patents pertaining to Engerix, the latest of which expires in 2014. A recently granted US patent pertaining to Havrixexpires in 2017.
For InfanrixUS patents expire during or after 2014. GlaxoSmithKline is licensed under a US patent covering LYMErixthat will provide protection
until 2014.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 23
GlaxoSmithKline highly values its intellectual property and believes Support for the merger process
that its worldwide portfolio of patents and trade marks is of Information technology played a key part in providing the planning
particular value. information for the merger, much of which was derived from the
existing systems in Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham.
Intellectual property includes patents, trade marks, registered
Ofmajor importance was ensuring that the new company had the
designs and copyrights.
IT systems in place to function effectively as soon as the merger
was complete. From the first day of GlaxoSmithKline, the 80,000
Patents
employees in 58 countries with e-mail accounts were able to
GlaxoSmithKline has obtained patents in many countries for the
contact their colleagues electronically. Employees could also use
significant products discovered or developed throughout its R&D
short codes for dialling between sites, search on-line phone
activities. Patent protection is available in the United States,
directories, and access both companies’ intranet sites. Cross-site
Europe,Japan and most other significant markets for new active
links to key business applications were provided.
ingredients, as well as for pharmaceutical formulations,
manufacturing processes and medical uses.
Global communications
GlaxoSmithKline continues to have patent protection for one or The past year has seen major growth in the number of internal
more forms of most of its key pharmaceutical products in major websites. These allow information to be shared across the company
markets and, in addition, either has obtained patents or anticipates ona global basis and are supported by internal search engines
that patent protection will be granted for the new drugs, which analogous to those used externally on the Internet. The ability
arein development. However, the absence of effective patent toprovide shared access to information has enabled the growing
protection for pharmaceuticals in some developing countries use of ‘virtual teams’, that work collaboratively, spanning multiple
continues to have an adverse effect on pharmaceutical companies, geographies and time zones, often subject to stringent time constraints.
including GlaxoSmithKline.
Information is also exchanged electronically with a broad array
GlaxoSmithKline is routinely engaged in disputes over its patented ofsuppliers, customers and partners. Hence, protection against
products and processes to protect its intellectual property rights unauthorised access to key systems, and the growing risks posed by
(seeNote 31 to the Financial statements ‘Legal proceedings’). computer viruses, is a major issue. Intruder detection software has
been added to company firewalls and virus scanning has been
Trade marks implemented at the gateway, server and desktop levels. The separate
All GlaxoSmithKline’s pharmaceuticals products are protected by approaches adopted by Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
registered trade marks in major markets, and GlaxoSmithKline are being integrated in a common standard approach
pursues a policy of enforcing its trade mark rights vigorously against forGlaxoSmithKline.
infringements and other unauthorised uses. These trade marks are
used in many countries, although there may be local variations for Enhancing business performance
each. For example, in the United States, the trade mark Paxilis used Virtually all GlaxoSmithKline’s major business processes rely
instead of Seroxatand Advairis used instead of Seretide. heavilyon the use of information technology. Within R&D in both
SmithKline Beecham and Glaxo Wellcome there have been major
Trade mark protection continues in some countries as long
programmes to capture key information, at source, in electronic
asatrade mark is used and renewed at appropriate times.
form and make it available wherever required. As a result of these
GlaxoSmithKline’s trade mark with respect to a pharmaceutical
efforts, it was possible to make a number of regulatory drug
product generally assumes increasing importance when the patent
submissions during the past year solely in electronic form. New drug
for that product expires in a particular country.
submissions can be 50,000 to 250,000 pages in size and the ability
to avoid generating paper submissions gives rise to significant
Intellectual property – Consumer Healthcare
savings in time and cost.
GlaxoSmithKline’s Consumer Healthcare businesses are brand-
As part of the project to implement standard systems for
oriented and the company considers its trademarks for these
Manufacturing Resource Planning in Glaxo Wellcome, eight sites,
products to be of particular value. Consumer brands are protected
seven in the UK and one in Jurong, Singapore, have been supported
by trademarks in the majority of the markets where these brands
for the past year from a single system. Further along the supply
are sold, and GlaxoSmithKline vigorously protects these trademarks
chain, SmithKline Beecham introduced standard enterprise financial
from infringement.
and commercial software into 108 locations. The ability
toconsolidate mission critical operations in this way reflects the
Information technology
growing availability and reliability of global data networks and
Information technology plays three strategic roles in ensures that common processes and standards are implemented
GlaxoSmithKline: across sites, in addition to providing lower operating costs.
• it facilitates communication and access to information on Both Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham have installed major
a global basis systems in the USA to analyse commercially available prescribing
• it supports key business processes at the local, regional, data. By better understanding locally of how GlaxoSmithKline’s
functional and global levels products are used in the marketplace, it is possible to target
• it enables the transformation and extension of key business promotional and detailing activities and measure the market
activities. response. Information from these systems is transmitted
electronically to the field sales forces and their responses are then
uploaded to the system. With the growing availability of the
required technology and infrastructure, sales force automation
systems are being deployed in most major commercial markets.24 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Transforming and extending business activities Training and development
Insights gained from genomics and proteomics are transforming the Comprehensive training and development opportunities are
way that disease targets are identified and validated. Information available to all employees at all levels, including access to self-help
generated from a variety of external sources needs to be integrated computer-based training modules. Development planning is a key
with internally generated information in a rapid and flexible manner element in overall performance planning each year.
that relies heavily on information technology support. The analysis
Executive and leadership development programmes have been
of these databases also requires significant amounts of processing
designed to identify and prepare the key talent necessary for
power, taking full advantage of advances in computer technology.
growing the business worldwide. In particular, these programmes
develop skills identified as critical to future business success, such
e-business
asentrepreneurship, partnering, cross-functional collaboration and
Both Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham recognised the
global problem solving.
growing importance of e-business and had already put small
dedicated teams in place. Web based interfaces to major customers
Property, plant and equipment
have been implemented in the USA. Current projects span a broad
range of key audiences including opinion leaders, healthcare GlaxoSmithKline has operating establishments in some 70 countries.
professionals, patients and the public. The geographical spread of the Group‘s activities, and the
headquarters‘ location in each country, are indicated in the list of
GlaxoSmithKline people Group companies (page 136). GlaxoSmithKline conducts research
and development at more than 20 sites and manufactures product
The skills and intellect of GlaxoSmithKline employees are
at more than 100 sites in 41 countries. Refer to ‘Research and
fundamental to the current and future success of the business.
development – Pharmaceuticals’ (page 14) and ‘Manufacture and
ItisGlaxoSmithKline’s human capital that maximises the potential
supply’ (page 13).
of the Group’s scientific, commercial and financial assets. The
objective of human resources policy is to maintain the reputation GlaxoSmithKline has invested nearly £4 billion in its property, with
ofGlaxoSmithKline as an employer of choice: the role of Human acarrying value in the financial statements of £3 billion, with a
Resources is to provide alignment between business strategy and further £3.5 billion at carrying value invested in plant and equipment.
people strategy. In 2000 GlaxoSmithKline invested £1 billion in new andrenewal
property, plant and equipment. Property is mainly heldfreehold.
Performance and reward New investment is financed from existing Group liquid resources.
The importance of people as an operating resource has to translate The Group had at 31st December 2000 contractual commitments
into employment practices that recognise the value of each for future expenditure of some £300 million and operating lease
individual. Compensation and benefit packages are designed to commitments in 2001 of approximately £130 million.
beenlightened, competitive and attuned to the local market.
GlaxoSmithKline’s business is science-based, technology-intensive
Compensation includes both skill- and performance-based pay, and highly regulated by governmental authorities. GlaxoSmithKline
contributing to retention of key skills and consistent recognition allocates significant financial resources to the renewal and
andreward of superior performance and accomplishment of maintenance of its property and plant to minimise risks of
business targets. interruption of production and to achieve compliance with
regulatory standards. The research and development and
Alternative work schedules, such as flex-time, teleworking, adjusted
manufacture of active pharmaceutical ingredient require the use
work weeks, recognise that employees work best in an environment
ofchemicals and hazardous materials. GlaxoSmithKline observes
that integrates both their family and personal life.
stringent procedures and uses specialist skills to manage
environmental risks from these activities. Environmental issues,
Communication and involvement
sometimes dating from operations now modified or discontinued,
An extensive range of communications programmes stimulates
are referenced under Environment, health and safety (page 25) and
involvement in GlaxoSmithKline goals and progress, including
in Note 31 to the Financial statements.
presentations of business results, Group-wide magazines, site
newspapers, videos, recorded voice mail messages from senior GlaxoSmithKline believes that its facilities are adequate for its
executive officers and access to the GlaxoSmithKline intranet. current needs. The integration of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline
Beecham operations in 2001 and subsequently is likely to
Share ownership schemes encourage participation as owners
involvethe rationalisation, and disposal, of a number of
ofthebusiness, increasing awareness of short- and long-term
sitesandproperties.
business objectives.
Diversity
Diversity is central to the effective deployment of the skills needed
to compete in the modern global economy. The Group values
diversity of opinion, perspective and background.
GlaxoSmithKline remains committed to employment policies
whichdo not discriminate between potential or existing staff on the
grounds of colour, race, ethnic and national origin, gender, marital
status, religious beliefs or disability. In the UK, if an employee
becomes disabled whilst in employment and, as a result, is unable
to perform normal duties, every effort is made to offer suitable
alternative employment and assistance with retraining.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 25
The business and the community
Environment, health and safety Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs)
As the world’s leading provider of metered-dose-inhalers (MDIs) for
In keeping with GlaxoSmithKline’s global quest to improve the
the treatment of respiratory tract diseases, GlaxoSmithKline is
quality of human life, environment, health and safety (EHS) issues
currently changing the propellant in MDIs from CFCs to non-ozone
are very important to the new company. The GlaxoSmithKline Vision
depleting HFC 134a. VentolinMDIs using the new propellant have
for Environment, Health and Safety has been adopted and work is
been launched in 41 countries and FlixotideMDIs using HFC134a
proceeding on agreeing the EHS policy. A corporate EHS function
launched in 22 countries. The aim is to make the transition as
has been formed and is responsible for recommending policy and
smooth as possible so that doctors, nurses, pharmacists and most
strategy, providing direction and support for significant issues. It will
importantly, patients feel comfortable with, and continue to use,
also develop standards appropriate to business needs.
the reformulated products. In addition, sales of Diskus, the dry
The main task in 2001 will be to integrate programmes from both powder inhaler continue to grow and demonstrate the commitment
companies into new GlaxoSmithKline EHS programmes that take to providing choice for healthcare providers and patients.
the best from both companies. In view of the similarities and the
commitment of all managers and staff to high standards of EHS Contract manufacturing
practice, it is expected that the merger will result in continued Because of the increasing use of external contract manufacturers
improvement in EHS performance. GlaxoSmithKline will monitor and suppliers for supplying active ingredients, fine chemical
progress and report against a set of goals and targets that will be intermediates and finished products, GlaxoSmithKline will continue
developed during 2001. to integrate EHS into contracts, audit contract manufacturers and
key suppliers against GlaxoSmithKline EHS standards and measure
Further information on EHS in GlaxoSmithKline can be found in
their EHS performance to manage potential threats to supply
theEHS Review available from the Secretariat at the company’s
chainsecurity.
head office.
Contaminated land
EHS management system
In the UK, statutory provisions for dealing with historically
Successful management of environment, health and safety has
contaminated land have been introduced by virtue of Part IIA of the
beena high priority for both Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline
Environmental Protection Act 1990 (by insertion of Section 56 of
Beecham. Both companies had global standards and guidelines on
the Environment Act 1995). A review has been carried out of all
Environment, Health and Safety issues. These set key requirements
available data at 12 operational facilities in the UK to determine if
for implementation of policy and programmes based on the
any could be designated as contaminated land under the new
management systems model of the International Standards
regime. The review indicated that eight facilities are unlikely to be
Organisation (ISO). The GlaxoSmithKline EHS department will be
designated as contaminated land and that additional data was
evaluating the possibility of Group-wide ISO certification of the
needed for the other four facilities. Further studies at these sites are
newEHS management system that will be put in place.
being arranged to collect more data. In the USA in 2000, the Group
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham both performed audits remained actively involved in the resolution of 11 remedial sites, all
toassess and report on implementation of corporate policy and of which are in mid to late stages of remediation.
performance against the established global standards. In 2000 the
More recent contaminated land issues include a site in the UK
two companies performed over 57 audits in 26 countries including
forwhich agreement has been reached with the local planners
19 contract manufacturing and key supplier audits.
regarding demolition and remediation. Negotiations are currently
underway to agree cleanup standards with the North Carolina State
EHS awards
regulatory agency to remediate soil and groundwater contamination
Both Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham had internal
at two sites.
awardschemes designed to reward innovation and outstanding
achievements in EHS management. Further information can be Provision has been made in the financial statements for estimated
found in the EHS Review. costs of remediation.
Goals and targets Regulatory compliance
The broad goal for EHS in the new company is to integrate the best Although every effort is made to ensure full and effective legal
of each company into a combined EHS programme that will be compliance, an occasional event may result in permit or regulatory
recognised as a leader in the industry. In the first year the Group breaches. If they occur, they are taken very seriously and steps are
expects to develop EHS standards and a management system taken to prevent any future occurrences.
andstart the process for company-wide ISO 14001 certification.
Thedata that each company has collected will be analysed and Major environmental improvement projects
evaluated to develop a baseline for the combined company with The Ulverston antibiotics site in the UK is currently engaged in a
annual improvement targets through to 2005. £7million project to upgrade the treatment of its site wastewater.
At the Irvine, Scotland antibiotics facility, £8 million has been
It is also intended to explore the impact of implementation of
approved for the construction of a high temperature composting
sustainable development principles in GlaxoSmithKline.
unit for waste sludge generated by the onsite wastewater
treatmentplant.26 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Global community partnerships Malaria
GlaxoSmithKline is working in partnership with Roll Back Malaria
GlaxoSmithKline recognises that corporate social responsibility in
and other international and national stakeholders to develop and
today’s business environment requires innovative programmes to
implement innovative and sustainable plans to reduce suffering
help build healthy and successful communities around the world.
anddeaths from malaria.
By creating a blend of traditional philanthropy with major
The company has been undertaking pilot programmes in Kenya and
commitments to new partnerships in public health for the
Uganda to assess the feasibility of using donations of its product
developing world, GlaxoSmithKline is working harder and more
Malarone. In order to preserve the efficacy of Malaroneand, as far
creatively than ever to enable people to do more, feel better
as possible, prevent the emergence of resistance to it, it is important
andlive longer.
that the product is reserved for use when first and second-line anti-
The remit of GlaxoSmithKline’s Global Community Partnerships malarials are ineffective. Pilot sites have been successfully following a
encompasses some of the greatest challenges facing society and protocol for determining which patients require treatment with
includes some of the most ambitious corporate citizenship projects Malaroneand which patients can be treated with standard therapies.
ever embarked upon:
Tuberculosis
• efforts to tackle parasitic diseases such as malaria and lymphatic
Action TB was launched in July 1993 when GlaxoSmithKline
filariasis in the developing world and to combat the scourge of
committed £10 million over five years to fund research in
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and acquired immune
universities in the UK, South Africa and Canada. On World TB day
deficiency syndrome (AIDS) in countries without the safety net
in 1998, GlaxoSmithKline announced a further £10 million to fund
of a state-funded healthcare system
Action TB for another five years.
• the challenge of empowering communities to affect their own
The goals of the programme are to deliver: a drug in early stages
social environments, both through traditional ‘philanthropic’
ofdevelopment together with a backup or alternative candidate;
means and through innovative programmes designed to further
avaccine in early stages of development including identification
strengthen those who are already expert in their particular field
ofcandidate antigens; and identification of surrogate markers for
• the management of an active programme of science education use in drug and vaccine trials.
for children of all ages who live in the communities around
major GlaxoSmithKline locations. Community programmes – United Kingdom
The company’s partnership with the Department of Health and
HIV and AIDS thecharity Barnardo’s to establish the Right Fit programme is in its
GlaxoSmithKline has provided further support for the existing third year. Right Fit is a major initiative which helps young people,
UN-led programme to reduce Mother-to-Child Transmission of HIV teachers and youth workers tackle smoking, diet and fitness.
in 25 developing countries. GlaxoSmithKline’s donation of £3 million, spread over the three-year
life of the project, is the largest single contribution made by the
Positive Action – the long-term international programme of
company in the UK. The objective of the programme is to make a
HIVeducation and community care – launched a new initiative to
positive impact on the health of young people in the UK and the
increase the involvement of people living with HIV in support of
results so far have been very encouraging with 175 projects being
theUN International Partnership Against AIDS in Africa.
supported, benefiting over 150,000 young people.
In July 2000 GlaxoSmithKline was a principal sponsor of the
GlaxoSmithKline provided £500,000 for medical research. This is an
13thWorld AIDS Conference in Durban, South Africa, reinforcing
annual scheme, with £3.7 million awarded to over 40 medical
the company’s commitment to the fight against HIV/AIDS.
research projects in the last eight years. Eight charities are invited to
apply each year and five projects are selected for funding of
Lymphatic Filariasis
approximately £100,000 each. The charities funded through this
In the third year of its global humanitarian programme to help
programme in 2000 were: Diabetes UK, Cystic Fibrosis Trust,
eliminate lymphatic filariasis (LF, a disabling tropical disease also
Digestive Disorders Foundation, Meningitis Research Foundation
known as elephantiasis) GlaxoSmithKline donated over 34 million
and the Motor Neurone Disease Association.
treatments of its antiparasitic drug albendazole to more than 20
developing world countries in 2000. GlaxoSmithKline’s annual IMPACT Awards programme recognises
the excellent work of small charities working in the healthcare
It is estimated that GlaxoSmithKline will provide about five billion
sector. Ten winners each received an award of an unrestricted
treatments of albendazole over the next 20 years in the fight to
£25,000. Winning charities ranged from those supporting the
break transmission of LF, a parasitic disease that is spread by
health needs of male and female sex workers to community care
mosquitoes. To prevent the disease, the World Health Organisation
services and carer support in isolated areas of the Scottish Highlands.
advises that albendazole is co-administered with either
diethylcarbamazine (DEC) or ivermectin as a single annual A joint venture between VSO and the Royal College of Paediatrics
treatmentfor four to six years to entire endemic communities. and Child Health received a £150,000 donation to fund ten trainee
consultant paediatricians (five in 2000 and five in 2001), to spend
GlaxoSmithKline also actively participates in the LF Global Alliance –
ayear of their higher specialist training in a developing country as
a coalition of GlaxoSmithKline, the World Health Organisation and
aVSO volunteer. The focus is on providing and sharing paediatric
some 30 public, private and academic institutions and the Ministries
skills in areas where they are most needed for the benefit of poor
of Health in the 80 endemic countries.
and disadvantaged children.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 27
A £45,000 donation enabled the charity Beating Bowel Cancer to
provide equipment for centres which will assist in the early diagnosis
of the disease. Bowel cancer is the second biggest cancer killer in
the UK and causes almost 50 per cent more deaths than breast
cancer.
Community programmes – Europe
Programmes in Europe focused on children’s health:
Support was provided for Reaching Young Europe, run by
Befrienders International (the umbrella organisation for the
Samaritan movement worldwide), which helps children develop skills
to cope with stress (£200,000).
Funding was provided for two programmes run by the aid
organisation, Project HOPE: in Russia, to combat substance abuse
(£100,000); in Bosnia, apaediatric rehabilitation programme
(£130,000).
The Barretstown Gang Camp in Ireland, which supports seriously ill
children from all over Europe, received £420,000.
Community programmes – North America
Community Partnership focused on better access to better
healthcare. Grants of $4.0 million were awarded through the
NorthAmerica Community Partnership Team.
There is a $4.5 million (three-year) initiative by GlaxoSmithKline and
the University of Pennsylvania’s Institute on Ageing.
A three-year Children’s Health Fund grant of $2.1 million was made
to support the Referred Initiative Programme, ensuring children
without medical insurance receive healthcare services.
In the US IMPACT Awards programme, ten grants of $40,000 were
made to healthcare organisations in recognition of their exceptional
work in the delivery of community healthcare.
Community programmes – Rest of World
Outside Europe and the USA the focus was on health education.
GlaxoSmithKline’s PHASE (Personal Hygiene and Sanitation
Education) is a health education programme that targets primary
school children aged 6 to 13 years, with the goal of reducing
diarrhoea-related disease associated with poor hygiene. This schools
initiative was extended from its pilot countries of Kenya and Côte
d’Ivoire to include Uganda, Peru and Nicaragua (£575,000).
GlaxoSmithKline’s two indigenous community healthcare initiatives
inNorthern Queensland, Australia, are designed to implement
community-led programmes that will improve the health of
indigenous communities. These are now developing into replicable
community-led models (£110,000).
Charitable support
Charitable donations by GlaxoSmithKline companies around the
world totalled approximately £30 million in 2000.
In the UK GlaxoSmithKline made charitable donations of some
£6million for projects both in the UK and in the developing world,
with particular emphasis in the areas of UK and international
healthcare, medical and scientific education, the environment and
the arts. Additionally GlaxoSmithKline UK operating companies
contributed a further £1 million by way of community investment
inthe communities local to their factories and sites.28 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Access to medicines The prices available through the AAI – which represent discounts
ofsome 90 per cent on world prices – are also being offered by
GlaxoSmithKline is determined to play its full part in improving
GlaxoSmithKline to not-for-profit organisations that are able to
access to medicines for the world’s poorest people. Millions of
deliver anti-retrovirals to patients in developing countries, including
people in developing countries do not have ready access to basic
selling directly to aid organisations and UN agencies for use in their
healthcare services, including safe and effective medicines.
own programmes.
The company is involved in many initiatives to improve health in the
Additionally, the company is working with employers in Africa who
developing world, including tackling major killers such as HIV/AIDS,
offer HIV/AIDS care and treatment directly to their staff through
malaria and TB. Both Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham had
their own workplace clinics.
a history of addressing developing world diseases, in terms both of
the R&D they undertook and the efforts made to improve access to
Working in partnership
existing medicines.
GlaxoSmithKline is committed to maximising affordable access to
medicines in the developing world and is exploring a framework
R&D for diseases of the developing world
in which the company can offer lower prices for all medicines for
GlaxoSmithKline makes very significant investments in researching
those who most need them in developing countries.
new products to prevent and treat developing world diseases.
Thecompany has extensive research programmes into both the In addition to the acknowledgement that improving access to
prevention and treatment of the three diseases that are the focus medicines is a shared responsibility, this framework needs to embrace
of international efforts – HIV/AIDS, malaria and TB. GlaxoSmithKline three core principles – partnership, protection of products from
is the only company working to develop vaccines for all three diversion and parallel trade, and agreement that developing country
diseases. It also has a dedicated specialist team within the company prices should not be used as a benchmark for prices in developed
working on treatments for tropical diseases, with programmes countries. Although this framework does not currently exist, the
todevelop anti-malarials, de-worming agents and anti-diarrhoeals. company is working hard with all stakeholders to make products
available at discounted prices while the framework develops.
Development of these drugs and vaccines involves external research
collaborations. For example, the company has an agreement with To make real progress in tackling the HIV/AIDS pandemic,
the Malaria Vaccine Initiative, a non-profit organisation, to test particularly in Sub-Saharan Africa, increased donor funding from
theonly malaria vaccine candidate yet to show effectiveness in the developed world is needed to enhance healthcare capacity and
preventing malaria. This will speed the development of the vaccine, to facilitate the purchase of the anti-retroviral medicines. Even at
with the potential to save the lives of millions of children. such significantly reduced prices, the cost of the anti-retroviral
therapy and the associated health care infrastructure that is
Other collaborative projects include two commissioned under the
necessary to deliver this to patients is way beyond the means
Medicines for Malaria Venture and the Action TB programme which
ofmany developing country governments.
harnesses academic expertise in order to develop new TB treatments.
While the pharmaceutical industry has a role to play in improving
However, efforts to develop incentives and joint funding are
access, significant barriers exist, most notably poverty, inadequate
essential to stimulate such research. In addition to its own research
public spending and weak healthcare infrastructures. These
efforts, GlaxoSmithKline will continue to work with donor agencies
problems must be addressed as a shared responsibility by all sectors
to identify additional research and development funding so that
of society, including governments in both the developed and
developing country diseases can be effectively tackled.
developing world, international agencies, non-governmental
agencies and pharmaceutical companies.
Commitment to lower prices
Both Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham have offered lower
prices for a range of medicines for use in developing countries.
Most significantly this has covered vaccines and anti-retroviral
therapies for HIV/AIDS. The company is a leading provider of
vaccines to the developing world, and has been offering very
substantial discounts to governments, charities and agencies for
public health programmes for nearly 20 years.
GlaxoSmithKline is one of five companies offering low price anti-
retrovirals as part of the Accelerating Access Initiative (AAI). This
aims to accelerate sustained access to appropriate interventions for
the prevention, care and treatment of people living with HIV/AIDS.
AAI is a partnership between the pharmaceutical industry and five
UN agencies, which works with governments to ensure appropriate
treatment of patients, both in terms of their overall health care and
their use of drugs.GlaxoSmithKline 29
Corporate governance
This section discusses GlaxoSmithKline’s management structures and
governance procedures.
30 The Board
31 Corporate Executive Team
32 Merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
32 The Board and Executive
33 Dialogue with shareholders
33 Annual General Meeting
33 Accountability and control
34 The Combined Code
35 Memorandum and Articles of Association of GlaxoSmithKline30 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance
bd
The Board Sir Christopher Hogg (Aged 64)
Non-Executive Director. Sir Christopher was formerly a Non-
c
Sir Richard Sykes (Aged 58) Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. He is Non-Executive
Non-Executive Chairman. Sir Richard was Chairman of Glaxo Chairman of Reuters Group PLC and Allied Domecq PLC and a
Wellcome plc from 1997 until the completion of the merger to Non-Executive Director of Air Liquide S.A. He is also Chairman of
formGlaxoSmithKline plc. He is Rector of Imperial College of The Royal National Theatre Board.
Science, Technology & Medicine. He has a Doctorate in Microbial b
Peter Job (Aged 59)
Biochemistry from Bristol University and a Doctor of Science degree
Non-Executive Director. Mr Job was formerly a Non-Executive
from the University of London. A Fellow of the Royal Society, he sits
Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc. He is the Chief Executive
on a number of government and scientific committees. He received
of Reuters Group PLC and is a Non-Executive Director of
his knighthood for services to the pharmaceutical industry. He is also
Schroders plc.
a Non-Executive Director of Rio Tinto plc.
f
df John McArthur (Aged 66)
Sir Roger Hurn (Aged 62)
Non-Executive Director. Mr McArthur was formerly a Non-Executive
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman. Sir Roger was appointed a
Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc. He is a former Dean of the Harvard
Non-Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc in 1996 and Deputy
Business School, and is a Non-Executive Director of BCE Inc., Cabot
Chairman in 1997. He is Non-Executive Chairman of Marconi plc
Corporation, Rohm and Haas Company, Springs Industries Inc. and
and Prudential public limited company and a Non-Executive Director
The AES Corporation.
of ICI plc. He is also Chairman of the Court of Governors of the
f
Henley Management Centre. Donald McHenry (Aged 64)
bd Non-Executive Director. Mr McHenry was formerly a Non-Executive
Sir Peter Walters (Aged 70)
Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. He is a Distinguished
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman. Sir Peter had been a Non-Executive
Professor in the Practice of Diplomacy at the School of Foreign
Director of SmithKline Beecham plc since 1989 and Chairman from
Service at Georgetown University and President of the IRC Group,
1994 until completion of the merger. His other appointments
LLC. His other Non-Executive Directorships include Coca-Cola
include those of Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of HSBC Holdings
Company, FleetBoston Financial Corporation and AT&T
PLC and Chairman of the Institute of Economic Affairs. He was a
Corporation. He previously served as Ambassador and US
Non-Executive Director of Saatchi & Saatchi PLC.
Permanent Representative to the United Nations.
d
Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier (Aged 53) b
Sir Ian Prosser (Aged 57)
Chief Executive Officer. Dr Garnier was appointed an Executive
Non-Executive Director. Sir Ian was formerly a Non-Executive
Director of SmithKline Beecham plc in 1992. He served as Chairman,
Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. He is Chairman of Bass PLC
Pharmaceuticals from 1994 until his appointment as Chief Operating
and Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of BP Amoco plc. He is also
Officer in 1995 and became Chief Executive Officer in April 2000.
a member of the World Travel & Tourism Council and the CBI
He is a Non-Executive Director of United Technologies Corporation
President’s Committee.
and a member of the Board of Trustees of the Eisenhower Exchange
b
Fellowships. He holds a PhD in pharmacology from the University Dr Ronaldo Schmitz (Aged 62)
of Louis Pasteur in France and an MBA from Stanford University Non-Executive Director. Dr Schmitz was formerly a Non-Executive
in the USA. Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc. He is a Non-Executive Director
d of Legal & General Group plc and a member of the Board of
John Coombe (Aged 56)
Directors of Rohm and Haas Company and Cabot Corporation.
Chief Financial Officer. Mr Coombe was formerly an Executive
He was formerly a member of the Board of Executive Directors of
Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc where he was responsible for
Deutsche Bank AG.
Finance and Investor Relations. He is a member of the UK
Accounting Standards Board and Chairman of The Hundred Group. Dr Lucy Shapiro (Aged 60)
f Non-Executive Director. Dr Shapiro was formerly a Non-Executive
Paul Allaire (Aged 62)
Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. She is Professor in the
Non-Executive Director. Mr Allaire was formerly a Non-Executive
Department of Developmental Biology and Director of the
Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. He is Chairman of Xerox
Beckman Centre at the Stanford University School of Medicine.
Corporation and a Non-Executive Director of J P Morgan & Co. Inc.,
She holds a PhD in molecular biology from Albert Einstein College
Lucent Technologies Inc., Sara Lee Corporation and priceline.com Inc.
of Medicine.
f
Dr Michèle Barzach (Aged 57) e
John Young (Aged 68)
Non-Executive Director. Dr Barzach was formerly a Non-Executive
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of GlaxoSmithKline’s
Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc. She is Chairman of the External
Remuneration & Nominations Committee. Mr Young was
Advisory Panel for Health, Nutrition and Population for the World
formerlyNon-Executive Vice Chairman of SmithKline Beecham plc.
Bank and Director of the Board of International AIDS Vaccine
His other non-executive appointments include directorships of
Initiative. A consultant on health strategy, she was formerly French
Chevron Corporation, Lucent Technologies Inc, Affymetrix Inc and
Minister of Health and the Family.
Perlegen Sciences Inc and the Vice-Chairmanship of Novell, Inc.
a
Derek Bonham (Aged 57)
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of GlaxoSmithKline’s Audit Membership of Board committees is indicated by the following
Committee. Mr Bonham was formerly a Non-Executive Director of symbols:
Glaxo Wellcome plc. He is Non-Executive Chairman of Cadbury
Schweppes plc, Imperial Tobacco Group plc and Fieldens plc and a Chairman Member
Non-Executive Director of TXU Corporation. Audit a b
Finance c d
Mr Bonham will not be seeking election to the Board at the Annual
Remuneration & Nominations e f
General Meeting in May 2001.Corporate governanceGlaxoSmithKline 31
Corporate Executive Team Howard Pien
President Pharmaceuticals International
JP Garnier Mr Pien became President, Pharmaceuticals, SmithKline Beecham,
Chief Executive Officer in1998, with responsibility for the commercial operations of the
Dr Garnier was the Chief Executive Officer of SmithKline Beecham. worldwide Pharmaceuticals business. He has held key positions in the
He joined SmithKline Beecham in 1990 as president of its USA, the UK and north Asia. He joined SmithKline Beecham in 1991
pharmaceutical business in North America and served as Chairman, having worked at Abbott Laboratories and Merck.
Pharmaceuticals, from 1994 until his appointment as Chief
Operating Officer in 1995. He was elected to SmithKline Beecham’s David Stout
Board of Directors in 1992. President US Pharmaceuticals
Mr Stout was appointed President, Pharmaceuticals, North America,
Jim Beery SmithKline Beecham, in 1998. He joined SmithKline Beecham in
Senior Vice President & General Counsel 1996 as Senior Vice President and Director, Sales and Marketing – US.
Mr Beery was the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Before that he was President of Schering Laboratories with
Corporate Secretary, for SmithKline Beecham, having joined responsibilities including US pharmaceutical operations and worldwide
thecompany in 1994. He is responsible for legal matters across manufacturing.
theGroup. He will retire from GlaxoSmithKline in June 2001.
Tim Tyson
John Coombe President Global Manufacturing & Supply
Chief Financial Officer Mr Tyson was appointed Senior Vice President and Director,
Mr Coombe was the Group Finance Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc. Worldwide Manufacturing & Supply, Glaxo Wellcome, in 1998.
He joined Glaxo in 1986 as Group Financial Controller and was Hewas previously Vice President and General Manager of Business
appointed to the Board in 1992 as the Executive Director Operations for Glaxo Wellcome Inc. He joined the company in 1988.
responsible for finance. He subsequently added responsibility for He was a member of the Glaxo Wellcome Commercial Operations
investor relations. Committee.
Bob Ingram Chris Viehbacher
Chief Operating Officer & President Pharmaceutical Operations President Pharmaceuticals Europe
Mr Ingram was Chief Executive of Glaxo Wellcome plc and Mr Viehbacher was appointed to the Glaxo Wellcome Commercial
Chairman of its US subsidiary, Glaxo Wellcome Inc. He joined Operations Committee as the Regional Director for Europe. He
Glaxo Inc. in 1990 from Merck, and was appointed to the Board of became Director, Continental Europe, in January 1999 in addition
Glaxo Wellcome in 1995. In 1997 he became Chief Executive of to his role as Chairman and Chief Executive (President Directeur
Glaxo Wellcome, responsible for global business operations. General) of Glaxo Wellcome France. He joined Glaxo Wellcome
in 1988.
Jim Niedel
Chief Science & Technology Officer Tachi Yamada
Dr Niedel was the Glaxo Wellcome Executive Director responsible Chairman Research & Development
for Science & Technology. He was appointed to the Glaxo Wellcome Previously President, SmithKline Beecham Healthcare Services,
Board in 1995 with responsibility for Group Research and Dr Yamada was appointed Chairman, Research and Development,
Development. Before he joined Glaxo Wellcome in 1988, he was Pharmaceuticals, in 1999. He is a former Director of SmithKline
Professor of Medicine and Chief of the Division of Clinical Beecham. He was formerly Chairman of the Department of
Pharmacology at Duke University Medical Center. Internal Medicine at the University of Michigan Medical School
and Physician-in-Chief of the University of Michigan Medical Center.
James Palmer
Senior Vice President Clinical Development Pharmaceuticals R&D Jack Ziegler
Dr Palmer was responsible for all Glaxo Wellcome’s medical, President Consumer Healthcare
regulatory and product strategy activities worldwide. A physician Appointed as President of Consumer Healthcare, SmithKline
bytraining, he joined Glaxo in 1985. He was a member of Glaxo Beecham, in 1998, Mr Ziegler was responsible for the company’s
Wellcome’s Commercial Operations Committee. global Consumer Healthcare operations. He joined SmithKline
Beecham in 1991 as head of the North American Consumer
Dan Phelan Healthcare division, became President of the North America Division
Senior Vice President Human Resources and in 1996 was appointed Executive Vice President.
Mr Phelan was appointed Senior Vice President and Director,
Human Resources, SmithKline Beecham, in 1994. Before that
hewas Senior Vice President and Director, Operations and
Administration, Research and Development. In 1989, he was
appointed Vice President and Director, Personnel – US,
Pharmaceuticals. He joined SmithKline Beecham as Manager
ofLabour Relations in 1981.32 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance
Merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham The Board and Executive
GlaxoSmithKline plc acquired GlaxoWellcome plc and SmithKline Board
Beecham plc by way of a scheme of arrangement for the merger of The Board of GlaxoSmithKline plcis responsible for the Group’s
the two companies that became effective on 27th December 2000. system of corporate governance and is ultimately accountable
Until that date Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham operated for the Group’s activities, strategy and financial performance.
as separate companies under the management of their respective The Board comprises Executive and Non-Executive Directors. The
Boards of Directors. role of Non-Executive Directors is to bring independent judgement
to Board deliberations and decisions.
The Directors of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham during
the year 2000 were: Sir Richard Sykes is Non-Executive Chairman and Dr Jean-Pierre
Garnier is Chief Executive.
Glaxo Wellcome plc
Sir Roger Hurn and Sir Peter Walters are Non-Executive Deputy
Sir Richard Sykes, Chairman
Chairmen.
Sir Roger Hurn, Non-Executive Deputy Chairman
Robert Ingram, Chief Executive Sir Richard Sykes was employed by Glaxo Wellcome plc as Executive
Dr Michèle Barzach, Non-Executive Chairman. All of the other Non-Executive Directors are considered
Derek Bonham, Non-Executive to be independent. Given that two Non-Executive Deputy Chairmen
James Cochrane have been appointed, each independent, the company does not
John Coombe consider it necessary to appoint either one as senior independent
Peter Job, Non-Executive director.
Professor Arthur Li, Non-Executive
The Board meets regularly throughout the year. It has a formal
John McArthur, Non-Executive
schedule of matters reserved to it for decision but otherwise
Dr James Niedel
delegates specific responsibilities to Board committees, as
Dr Ronaldo Schmitz, Non-Executive
describedbelow. The Board works to an agreed agenda in
Jeremy Strachan
reviewing the key activities of the business, and receives papers and
presentations to enable it to do so effectively. Minutes of Board
SmithKline Beecham plc
committees, except the Remuneration & Nominations Committee,
Sir Peter Walters, Non-Executive Chairman
are placed on the agenda of the Board. The Company Secretary is
Jan Leschly, Chief Executive. Retired 28th April 2000
responsible to the Board, and is available to individual Directors,
Jean-Pierre Garnier, Chief Executive from 28th April 2000
inrespect of Board procedures.
Paul Allaire, Non-Executive
Andrew Bonfield The Company Secretary is Simon Bicknell.
Sir Christopher Hogg, Non-Executive
Baroness Hooper, Non-Executive Board committees
Donald McHenry, Non-Executive The Audit Committeereviews the financial and internal reporting
Sir Ian Prosser, Non-Executive process, the system of internal control and management of risks
Dr Lucy Shapiro, Non-Executive and the external and internal audit process. The Committee consists
Dr Tadataka Yamada entirely of Non-Executive Directors. Itmeets four times a year with
John Young, Non-Executive the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the heads of
internal audit and corporate compliance and the external auditors
Incorporation of GlaxoSmithKline inattendance.
The company was incorporated as a limited company on
The Finance Committeereviews and approves the major financial
6thDecember 1999 and subsequently changed its name to
and securities transactions of the company, as well as dividends,
GlaxoSmithKline plc. It converted to a public limited company
results announcements and the business of the Annual General
on22nd May 2000. The company did not itself trade from
Meeting.
incorporation until 27th December 2000, when it acquired Glaxo
Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham. The first report and financial The Remuneration & Nominations Committeedetermines the
statements of the company cover the period from incorporation to terms of service and remuneration of the Executive Directors and
31st December 2000, and include the results of the separate Glaxo Corporate Officers and considers appointments of Directors and
Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham businesses for the year 2000. Corporate Officers. The Committee consists entirely of Non-
Executive Directors. The Chief Executive Officer attends meetings
Directors of GlaxoSmithKline except when his own remuneration is being considered.
During the period from incorporation to 23rd May 2000, the
following served as directors of the company: Corporate Executive Team
The executive management of the Group is the responsibility of
Drusilla Rowe 6th December 1999 to 13th January 2000
the Chief Executive Officer and other senior managers, who form
Eleanor Zuercher 6th December 1999 to 13th January 2000
the Corporate Executive Team. The members of the Corporate
Antonia Rees 13th January 2000 to 28th January 2000
Executive Team and their responsibilities are listed under ‘Corporate
Hackwood Directors Limited 28th January 2000 to 15th May 2000
Executive Team’ (page 31).
Robert Stern 13th January 2000 to 15th May 2000
Rupert Bondy 16th May 2000 to 23rd May 2000
Remuneration of Directors
Stephen Cowden 16th May 2000 to 23rd May 2000
Information on the remuneration of Directors is given in the
The directors listed under ‘The Board’ (page 30) were appointed on Remuneration report.
23rd May 2000 and have served since that date.Corporate governanceGlaxoSmithKline 33
Dialogue with shareholders Accountability and control
The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
itshalf-year and full-year results are announced and a full Report Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham operated as separate
and/or summary Review are issued to shareholders. At the same companies under the management of their respective Boards of
time the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer give Directors until completion of the merger on 27th December 2000.
presentations on the results to institutional investors, analysts and
Both companies operated broadly similar processes of internal
the media in London and in New York.
control, based on an assessment of risks and a framework of
The company announces financial results quarterly. control procedures to manage risks and to monitor compliance with
procedures. In the case of both companies the process accorded
The Annual General Meeting of the company takes place in London
with the guidance on internal control issued by the Turnbull
and formal notification is sent to shareholders at least one month
Committee in 1999.
inadvance. At the Meeting a business presentation is made to
shareholders and all Directors are available, formally during the In Glaxo Wellcome, co-ordination of internal control reporting was
Meeting, and informally afterwards, for questions. Details of the the responsibility of the Company Secretary, who received reports
2001 Annual General Meeting are set out in the following section from functional and operational compliance groups for upwards
‘Annual General Meeting’. reporting to the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee.
SmithKline Beecham had established a Risk Oversight Compliance
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer maintain
Council, supported by a Corporate Compliance department, to
adialogue with institutional shareholders on company plans and
co-ordinate internal control and risk management activities and to
objectives through a programme of regular meetings. They both
assist the Audit Committee to perform its responsibilities with
speak regularly at external conferences and presentations.
respect to internal control.
The company’s Investor Relations department, with offices in
GlaxoSmithKline has brought together and adopted the procedures
London and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for contact with
previously operated by Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham.
institutional investors throughout the year.
The discussion which follows sets out the procedures of
The company’s internet site gives access to current financial and accountability and control that will operate in GlaxoSmithKline,
business information about theGroup. which are consistent with those followed by Glaxo Wellcome and
SmithKline Beecham throughout 2000.
Annual General Meeting
GlaxoSmithKline – control framework
The company’s Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.30pm
GlaxoSmithKline operates, and attaches importance to, clear
on21st May 2001 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre,
principles and procedures designed to achieve the accountability
Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
and control appropriate to a science-based business operating
multinationally in a highly regulated business sector. There is central
Directors
direction, resource allocation and risk management of the key
All the Directors are required to retire under article 98 of the
functional activities of commercial strategy, research and
company’s Articles of Association. With the exception of
development, manufacture, information systems, human resources
Mr Bonham, all the Directors are presenting themselves for
and financial practice. Commercial and financial responsibility is
election at the Annual General Meeting. Biographical details of
clearly delegated to local operating units, supported by a regional
each Director are given under ‘The Board’ (page30).
management structure.
Auditors These principles are designed to provide an environment of central
Resolutions will be proposed to appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers leadership and local operating autonomy as the framework for the
as auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their exercise of accountability and control within the Group. The key
remuneration. functional activities and management sectors are represented on
the Corporate Executive Team.
Special business
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and
The company will seek to:
managing the significant risks affecting the business and the
• authorise donations to EU Political Organisations and incur policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
EU Political Expenditure Theprocess accords with the guidance on internal control issued by
• authorise the Directors to allot shares up to a maximum of the Turnbull Committee in 1999. The assessment of Group risks is
one third of the current issued share capital reviewed and updated at least annually. At the operating level,
• give the Directors authority to dis-apply pre-emption rights business units are required to have processes of risk mapping and
when allotting new shares in certain circumstances up to a assessment. Independent specialist teams review and report on
maximum of five per cent of the current issued share capital compliance.
• obtain authority to purchase its own Ordinary Shares up to a
The company has identified a number of key areas ofrisk which are
maximum of just under ten per cent of the current issued
subject to regular reporting.
share capital.
Environment and safety
Risk management is addressed through a comprehensive
architecture that sets targets and provides guidance on how
theycan be achieved.34 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance
Manufacturing Audit Committee and Board
GlaxoSmithKline’s policy is for all manufacturing to be carried out The Audit Committee of the Board has responsibility for reviewing
tocorporate standards which meet or exceed the applicable the effectiveness of the system of internal control and management
requirements of regulatory bodies such as the US Food and of risks and the process for monitoring compliance with laws and
DrugAdministration. Regular audits of manufacturing facilities regulations and ethical codes of practice.
against these standards are carried out by an independent internal
The Board receives regular reports on areas of significant risk to
specialist team.
thecompany, and on related internal controls. In addition to its
consideration of these reports, the Board reviews annually the
Clinical trials
overall framework and effectiveness of controls.
All trials are carried out in accordance with strict Good Clinical
Practice guidelines and regulations aimed at ensuring the integrity Such controls may mitigate but cannot eliminate the risks covered.
of the resulting data and the safety of all human subjects in the In addition, there are a number of areas of risk inherent in the
trials. These procedures are subject to audit by anindependent company’s business where it is necessary to take risk in order to
internal specialist team. achieve a satisfactory return for shareholders. For example, the
development of potential products through clinical trials involves a
Pre-clinical studies risk that such products willfail to demonstrate the efficacy or safety
All trials undertaken to support the safety of new compounds are necessary to obtain marketing approvals from regulatory bodies. In
required to be conducted using Good Laboratory Practices (GLP). these cases, it is the company’s objective to apply its expertise in
These GLPs are dictated by strict worldwide regulations. All prudent management of risk rather than the elimination of risk.
elements of these studies are subject to audit by an independent
internal specialist team to monitor compliance. Associated company
The company has a 27 per cent interest in Quest Diagnostics Inc.,
Financial reporting which is accounted for as an associated company. The activities
There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual plan ofQuest are not part of the company’s core business and
approved by the Directors. The results of operating units are competencies, and the interest in Quest is held only as an
reported monthly and compared to the plan. Forecasts are prepared investment. The company has not therefore reviewed Quest’s
regularly throughout the year. The company announces results on a system of internal control.
quarterly basis.
The Combined Code
Investment appraisal
The company seeks to uphold, and to report on compliance with,
There is a clearly defined framework for controlling capital
best practice in corporate governance. ‘The Combined Code –
expenditure including the use of appropriate authorisation levels.
Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice’ (the
Capital expenditure applications are made in a consistent format
Combined Code) is issued by the UK Listing Authority for the
which includes review of the commercial and strategic rationale
guidance of listed companies.
forthe investment.
The Combined Code comprises recommendations as to best
Treasury operations practice in terms of the control and reporting functions of the
Treasury operations are governed by policies approved by the Board Board of a company. The Combined Code sets out principles
and are subject to internal and external audits. under the headings of:
• directors
Operating unit controls
• directors’ remuneration
Financial controls and procedures including information systems
• relations with shareholders
controls are detailed in policies and procedures manuals. Written
• accountability and audit
confirmation of compliance with internal control policies is obtained
from the Finance Directors and General Managers of all operating and prescribes more detailed provisions in respect of each
units annually. Operating units complete Self-Assessment principle. Specifically the provisions require directors to report
Questionnaires on business risks and internal controls which are in the Annual Accounts on:
reviewed by both the company’s internal and external auditors.
• directors’ remuneration
• directors’ responsibility for the accounts
Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC)
• going concern
The ROCC is responsible for co-ordinating the internal control and
• internal control.
risk management activities of the company and ensuring the
assignment of designated managers to manage significant risks.
Compliance
Membership comprises the heads of department with internal
The Directors’ report on compliance with the Combined Code,
control, risk management, audit and/or compliance responsibilities.
and their reports in accordance with the provisions of the
The terms of reference also include ensuring that regular ‘gap
Combined Code, are set out under Directors’ statements of
analysis’ is carried out to identify gaps in internal controls and
responsibility (page 70).
providing reports to the Audit Committee in addition to the reports
provided by the separate internal control, audit and compliance
departments within the company. The ROCC is supported by the
Corporate Compliance department.Corporate governanceGlaxoSmithKline 35
Memorandum and Articles of Association of GlaxoSmithKline The registration of transfers may be suspended at such times and
for such periods (not exceeding 30 days in any year) as the Directors
This being the first Annual Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc, the may from time to time determine and which have been filed with
following summary is provided of the principal provisions of the the Registrar of Companies, either generally or in respect of any
company’s Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association, class of shares.
a copy of which has been filed with the Registrar of Companies.
Provisions in the Articles will not apply to uncertified shares to the
The Memorandum contains the fundamental provisions of the
extent that they are inconsistent with:
company’s constitution. The Articles contain the rules for the
(i) the holding of shares in uncertified form;
internal management and control of the company.
(ii)the transfer of title to shares by means of a system such as
CREST; and
Memorandum of Association
(iii)any provisions of the Regulations.
The Memorandum of Association of GlaxoSmithKline provides that
its principal objects are, among other things, to be the holding
(c) Dividends and distribution of assets on liquidation
company of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham and to carry
The profits of GlaxoSmithKline which are available for distribution
on business as a general commercial company and to carry on any
and permitted by law to be distributed and which GlaxoSmithKline
trade or business or activity of any nature which may seem to the
may from time to time determine, upon the recommendation of
Directors to be capable of being conveniently or advantageously
theDirectors, to distribute by way of dividend in respect of any
carried on.
accounting reference period shall be distributed by way of dividend
among holders of Ordinary Shares.
Articles of Association
(a) Voting If in their opinion GlaxoSmithKline’s profits justify such payments,
All resolutions put to the vote at general meetings will be decided the Directors may, as far as any applicable legislation allows, pay
by poll. On a poll, every member who is present in person or by interim dividends on shares of any class, of such amounts and in
proxy shall have one vote for every Ordinary Share of which he is respect of such periods as they think fit.
the holder. Unless the Directors otherwise decide, voting rights may
The Directors may withhold payment of all or any part of any
not be exercised by a member who has not paid to the company
dividends or other monies payable in respect of Ordinary Shares
allcalls and other sums then payable by him in respect of shares in
from a person who holds a 0.25 per cent or more of the existing
the company. Unless the Directors otherwise decide, voting rights
shares of a class by serving such a person with a direction notice
may not be exercised by a member who has failed for a period
after his failure to provide GlaxoSmithKline with information
of14 days to provide GlaxoSmithKline with information
concerning interests in those shares required to be provided
concerninginterests in shares required to be provided under
underthe Companies Act.
theCompanies Act.
Except in so far as the rights attaching to, or the terms of issue
(b) Transfer of Ordinary Shares of,any share otherwise provide, all dividends will be declared,
Any member may transfer his Ordinary Shares which are in apportioned and paid pro rata according to the amounts paid
certificated form by an instrument of transfer in any usual uponthe shares during any portion of the period in respect of
formorin any other form which the Directors may approve. which the dividend is paid.
Suchinstrument must be properly stamped and lodged with
As GlaxoSmithKline has only one class of Ordinary Shares, the
GlaxoSmithKline accompanied by the relevant share certificate(s)
holders of such shares will under general law be entitled to
and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to
participate in any surplus assets in a winding-up in proportion to
show the right of the transferor to make the transfer. Every transfer
their shareholdings. A liquidator may, with the sanction of an
of Ordinary Shares which are in uncertificated form must be carried
extraordinary resolution, divide among the members in kind all or
out by means of a relevant system, as defined in the Regulations.
part of the assets of GlaxoSmithKline (whether they shall consist of
The Directors may, in their absolute discretion and without giving property of the same kind or not) as the liquidator deems fair.
any reason, decline to register any transfer of any share which is
nota fully paid share. The Articles contain no other restrictions on (d) Variation of rights and changes in capital
the transfer of fully paid shares provided (i) the transfer is in favour Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act and to the terms
of not more than four transferees; (ii) the transfer is in respect of ofissue of the shares concerned, the rights attached to any class
only one class of shares; and (iii) the holder of the shares is not in ofshares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of
default under the terms of a notice served on him by GlaxoSmithKline three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class
pursuant to the provisions of Section 212 of the Companies Act. orwith the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a
Notice of refusal to register a transfer must be sent to the transferee separate meeting of the holders of shares of that class.
within two months of the instrument of transfer being lodged.
At every such separate meeting, the provisions of the Articles
The Directors may decline to register a transfer of Ordinary Shares relating to general meetings shall apply, except the necessary
by a person holding 0.25 per cent or more of the existing shares of quorum shall be at least two persons holding or representing as
a class if such person has been served with a direction notice after proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the
failure to provide GlaxoSmithKline with information concerning class (but provided that at any adjourned meeting any holder of
interests in those shares required to be provided under the shares of the class present in person or by proxy shall be a quorum).
Companies Act, unless the transfer is shown to the Directors to be
an approved transfer (as defined in the Articles) or the transferor
isnot himself in default and he meets certain conditions set out
inthe Articles.36 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance
GlaxoSmithKline may by ordinary resolution increase its share A Director may (or any firm of which he is a partner, employee or
capital, consolidate and divide all or any of its shares into shares of member may) act in a professional capacity for GlaxoSmithKline
a larger nominal amount, cancel any shares not taken or agreed to (other than as auditor) and be remunerated for so doing. A Director
be taken by any person and, subject to any applicable legislation, may also be or become director or other officer of, or be otherwise
sub-divide its shares into shares of a smaller nominal amount. interested in, any company promoted by GlaxoSmithKline or in
which GlaxoSmithKline may be interested and will not be liable
GlaxoSmithKline may, subject to the provisions of the Companies
toaccount to GlaxoSmithKline or the members for any benefit
Act, by special resolution reduce its share capital or any capital
received by him.
redemption reserve, share premium account or other undistributable
reserve. GlaxoSmithKline may also, subject to the requirements of
(j) Directors’ remuneration
the Companies Act and the rights of any of the holders of any class
Each of the Directors will be paid a fee at such rate as may from
of shares, purchase its own shares.
time to time be determined by the Directors. Such fees may be
satisfied in shares or in any other non-cash form. Any Director
(e) Unclaimed dividends
whois appointed to any executive office, acts as chairman or
Any dividend unclaimed after a period of 12 years from the date
vice-chairman, serves on any committee of the directors or performs
when a resolution was passed for payment will be forfeited and
any other services which the Directors consider to extend beyond
revert to GlaxoSmithKline.
the ordinary services of a director shall be entitled to receive such
GlaxoSmithKline may stop sending dividend warrants by post in remuneration (whether by way of salary, commission or otherwise)
respect of any shares if at least two consecutive payments have as the Directors or any committee authorised by the Directors
remained uncashed or are returned undelivered or if one payment maydecide. Each Director may be paid reasonable travelling, hotel
has remained uncashed or is returned undelivered and and other expenses he incurs in attending and returning from
GlaxoSmithKline cannot establish a new address for the holder after meetings of the Directors, of committees of the Directors or of
making reasonable enquiries but in either case GlaxoSmithKline GlaxoSmithKline or otherwise incurred in connection with the
must resume sending warrants if the holder or any person entitled performance of his duties for GlaxoSmithKline.
to the shares by transmission claims the arrears.
(k) Pensions and gratuities for Directors
(f) Untraced shareholders The Directors or any committee authorised by the Directors may
GlaxoSmithKline may sell any shares in GlaxoSmithKline after provide benefits by the payment of gratuities, pensions or insurance
advertising its intention and waiting for three months if the shares or other allowances or benefits for any Director or former Director
have been in issue for at least ten years and during that period at or their relations, connected persons or dependants.
least three dividends have become payable on them and have not
been claimed and, so far as any Director is aware, GlaxoSmithKline (l) Borrowing powers
has not received any indication during the relevant period of the So far as the legislation allows, the Directors may exercise all
whereabouts of the holder of the shares or any person entitled to GlaxoSmithKline’s powers to borrow money; to mortgage or charge
them by transmission. Upon any such sale, GlaxoSmithKline will all or any of GlaxoSmithKline’s undertaking, property (present and
become indebted to the former holder of the shares or the person future), and uncalled capital; to issue debentures and other
entitled to them by transmission for an amount equal to the net securities; and to give security either outright or as collateral
proceeds of sale. security for any debt, liability or obligation or GlaxoSmithKline
orofany third party.
(g) Limitations on rights of non-resident or foreign
shareholders (m) Retirement and removal of Directors
There are no limitations imposed by the Articles of Association At every annual general meeting of GlaxoSmithKline, firstly,
onthe rights of non-resident or foreign shareholders except that one-third of the Directors will retire by rotation and be eligible
there is no requirement for GlaxoSmithKline to serve notices on forre-election (or, if one-third is not a whole number, the number
shareholders outside the United Kingdom and the United States. of directors to retire is the number which is nearest to one-third).
Ifthere are less than three directors, they will all retire. The
(h) General meetings of shareholders Directorsto retire will be those who were in office at the time
GlaxoSmithKline is required to hold an annual general meeting each ofthe two previous annual general meetings and who did not
year. Extraordinary general meetings of shareholders may be called retireby rotation at either of them, and, secondly, if the number
as necessary by the Board and must be called promptly upon receipt ofdirectors retiring remains less than the minimum required to
of a requisition from shareholders. retire, those who have been longest in office or, in the case of
thosewho were appointed or re-appointed on the same day,
(i) Directors’ voting powers willbe(unless they otherwise agree) determined by lot.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, and provided the
No Director is required to retire by reason of his age, nor do any
nature of a Director’s interest has been declared to the Directors,
special formalities apply to the appointment or re-election of any
aDirector is not disqualified by that office from contracting with
Director who is over any age limit.
GlaxoSmithKline in any manner, nor is any contract in which he
isinterested liable to be avoided, and any Director who is so For the first three years following completion of the merger,
interested is not liable to account to GlaxoSmithKline or the termination of the service contracts of Executive Directors will
members for any benefit realised by the contract by reason of the require a board majority of two-thirds.
Director holding that office or of the fiduciary relationship thereby
established. However, no Director may vote on any resolution
relating specifically to his own remuneration.GlaxoSmithKline 37
Remuneration report
The Remuneration report sets out, prospectively, the remuneration
policies to be operated by GlaxoSmithKline plc from completion
ofthe merger on 27th December 2000 and, historically, the
remuneration earned by Directors of Glaxo Wellcome plc
andSmithKline Beecham plc in 2000 in accordance with the
remuneration policies and programmes operated by Glaxo
Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham as independent companies.
38 Remuneration policy – GlaxoSmithKline
This describes the processes, policies and programmes which took
effect from completion of the merger on 27th December 2000.
40 Remuneration 2000 – GlaxoSmithKline Directors
This sets out the remuneration earned in 2000 by Directors
ofGlaxoWellcome and SmithKline Beecham who have been
appointed as Directors of GlaxoSmithKline, together with their
interests in share options and share incentive plans.
44 Remuneration 2000 – Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline
Beecham Directors
This sets out the remuneration earned in 2000 by Directors
ofGlaxoWellcome and SmithKline Beecham who were not
appointed as Directors of GlaxoSmithKline.
46 Directors and Senior Management – GlaxoSmithKline
This sets out the interests of Directors of GlaxoSmithKline plc in
shares of GlaxoSmithKline plc and in contracts. Information is also
provided on the aggregate remuneration and interests of Directors
and Senior Management of GlaxoSmithKline.
Additional disclosures in accordance with statutory requirements are
included in Note 36 to the Financial statements.
References to GlaxoSmithKline shares and ADSs mean, respectively,
an Ordinary Share of GlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p and an ADS
ofGlaxoSmithKline plc. Each ADS represents two GlaxoSmithKline
shares. Throughout the Remuneration report, shares and ADSs of
Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc at 31st December
1999 and at dates prior to the merger on 27th December 2000,
including options, awards and participations over shares and ADSs,
have been restated, both as regards number and price, in terms of
shares and ADSs of GlaxoSmithKline, as follows:
• for 1 Glaxo Wellcome share – 1 GlaxoSmithKline share
• for 1 SmithKline Beecham share – 0.4552 GlaxoSmithKline shares
• for 1 Glaxo Wellcome ADS – 1 GlaxoSmithKline ADS
• for 1 SmithKline Beecham ADS– 1.138 GlaxoSmithKline ADSs38 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration report
Remuneration policy – GlaxoSmithKline
GlaxoSmithKline remuneration policy Performance bonus
This is based on annual performance by business teams against
As a leading global healthcare company, GlaxoSmithKline aims to
demanding financial targets and individual accomplishments against
have remuneration policies and programmes that will enable it to
objectives. Bonuses are subject to upper limits. On target business
recruit, retain and motivate the top calibre executive talent which it
performance brings total compensation into line with the
needs and for which it competes in an international market place.
competitor panel. Pay rises if the target performance is exceeded
GlaxoSmithKline believes that its remuneration policies and but the executives’ total compensation falls well below the level of
programmes represent a competitive advantage and best practice compensation of competitors if these targets are not achieved.
through a heavy emphasis on pay for performance and ‘at risk’ There is an option to invest the bonus in GlaxoSmithKline shares,
compensation for its top executives. Long-term incentive plans have inwhich case the bonus is enhanced by ten per cent but the shares
been designed to align executive reward with shareholders’ must be held for a minimum of three years.
interests, in particular, the creation of enhanced shareholder value.
Long-term incentives
The Remuneration & Nominations Committee These comprise share options and participation in a Performance
Share Plan that link reward to shareholder value over the long and
GlaxoSmithKline has established a committee of the Board called
medium term respectively, as described below.
the Remuneration & Nominations (R&N) Committee to develop the
company’s policy on Executive Directors’ remuneration for approval Share options
by the Board and to determine the remuneration package of each Share options allow the holder to buy shares at a future date at a
Executive Director. The R&N Committee consists exclusively of price determined by reference to the open market price of shares at
independent Non-Executive Directors. The current members of the time of grant. It is intended that share options will be granted
the Committee are Mr John Young (Chairman), Mr Paul Allaire, to more than 10,000 managers at GlaxoSmithKline including
Dr Michèle Barzach, Sir Roger Hurn, Mr John McArthur and Executive Directors.
Mr Donald McHenry.
Vesting of options granted to Executive Directors will be subject
Remuneration of the company’s Non-Executive Directors is tothe performance condition that earnings per share growth,
determined by the GlaxoSmithKline Board itself, upon receipt of excluding currency and exceptional items, should be at least
advice from external consultants. ninepercent more than the increase in the UK Retail Price Index
over any three-year measurement period. With respect to future
Policy on remuneration of Executive Directors grants, the R&N Committee will regularly review performance
conditions against market conditions.
The R&N Committee, with advice from a leading firm of
compensation and benefit consultants, aims to provide a package Performance Share Plan
of incentives and rewards which will be competitive by reference to Participations in the Performance Share Plan will be granted to
other global healthcare companies as well as other multinational approximately 700 top executives in the company, including
companies considered similar to GlaxoSmithKline in terms of size, Executive Directors, designating a target number of shares for
geographical spread and complexity of business. eachparticipant. Vesting of awards under the plan will be subject
toa performance condition which applies during a three year
In constructing and reviewing remuneration packages, the
measurement period. The performance condition consists of
emphasisis on linking pay to performance by rewarding effective
twoparts, each of which applies to 50 per cent of the award.
management as well as individual achievement. The mix within
apackage is designed to align personal reward with enhanced The first part of the condition will compare GlaxoSmithKline’s
shareholder value over both the short and the long term. The TotalShareholder Returns (TSR) over the period with the TSR
Executive Directors’ remuneration consists of four components: ofcompanies in the UK FTSE 100 Index over the same period.
IfGlaxoSmithKline is ranked in the top 20 of the FTSE 100
• Salary
inrelation to TSR performance, then 100 per cent of the
• Performance bonus
sharessubject to this part of the performance condition will vest.
• Long-term incentives
Iftheranking is at the 50th position in the FTSE 100, 40 per
• Benefits
centofthe shares will vest. If GlaxoSmithKline is ranked below
50thposition, none of the shares subject to this part of the
Salary
performance condition will vest. Between the 20th and 50th
This reflects an Executive Director’s experience, responsibility and
positions, vesting will occur on a slidingscale.
market value.
The second part of the performance condition requires
GlaxoSmithKline earnings per share growth, excluding currency
andexceptional items, to be at least nine per cent more than
theincrease in the UK Retail Price Index over the three-year
performance period. If this condition is met, then all of the shares
subject to this part of the performance condition will vest. If this
condition is not met, then none of the shares subject to this part
ofthe performance condition will vest.Remuneration reportGlaxoSmithKline 39
Benefits Mr Coombe’s contract specifies compensation to be paid in the
Executive Directors participate in Glaxo Wellcome’s or SmithKline event of redundancy. In the event that notice of termination is
Beecham’s senior executive pension plans. These are defined benefit given, other than in the case of redundancy, Mr Coombe is required
plans in the UK and cash balance plans in the USA. Benefits are to mitigate any loss of earnings resulting thereafter.
payable at age 60. The US cash balance plans provide a pension
Provisions on termination of employment and compensation in
payable from a fund to which contributions of up to tenpercent of
theevent of termination were previously approved by SmithKline
earnings are paid and interest accrues based on Treasury Bill rates.
Beecham and Glaxo Wellcome for Dr Garnier and Mr Coombe,
Bonuses are pensionable for all participating employees in the US
respectively, and did not change upon the merger becoming
plans, including Executive Directors.
effective. The R&N Committee of GlaxoSmithKline will keep under
Executive Directors participate in Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline review contractual terms for Executive Directors of GlaxoSmithKline.
Beecham all employee share plans in either the UK or USA. This
Executive Directors’ service contracts contain garden leave,
enables Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham employees in the
non-competition, non-solicitation and confidentiality clauses.
UK and SmithKline Beecham employees in the USA to contribute up
to four per cent of pay to the plan with the company paying a The R&N Committee believes that one year contracts would not
maximum of four per cent of pay to purchase an interest in bein the best interest of GlaxoSmithKline with regard to offering
GlaxoSmithKline shares. aglobally competitive overall remuneration package and securing
maximum protection for its intellectual property rights.
Other benefits, such as healthcare, are provided in line with the
practice in the market where the executive is employed. Non-Executive Directors of GlaxoSmithKline do not have service
contracts.
Executive Directors will also participate on the same basis as other
senior employees in new GlaxoSmithKline benefit plans when these
Payment of Non-Executive Directors in GlaxoSmithKline
are established.
shares
Share ownership guidelines To enhance the link between Directors and shareholders,
GlaxoSmithKline requires Non-Executive Directors to receive a
To align executive interest with that of shareholders, Executive
significant part of their fees in the form of shares allocated to a
Directors are required to hold shares in the company. The Chief
share account and offers the opportunity to invest part or all of the
Executive Officer is required to hold shares to the value of four times
balance of fees in a share account. These shares are not paid out
base pay. Other Executive Directors of GlaxoSmithKline are required
until the Director’s retirement from the Board, or at a later date,
to hold shares to the value of three times base pay.
onthe basis of dividends being reinvested in the interim.
For purposes of these requirements shares and ADSs held in
SmithKline Beecham’s bonus deferral plans and vested but deferred
awards under long-term incentive plans are included. As at the
year-end Dr Garnier’s total shareholding on this basis was 109,098
ADSs and for Mr Coombe it was 109,820 shares and as a result
both Directors exceeded the share ownership guidelines.
Directors’ service contracts
Executive Directors are employed on service contracts under which
GlaxoSmithKline is required to give two years’ notice of termination
and the Executive Directors are required to give 12 months’ notice.
Dr Garnier’s contract specifies the compensation to be paid by the
company on termination of his employment, including an immediate
payment of two years salary and bonus. Dr Garnier is also entitled to
continue to participate in the company’s long-term incentive plans
for the first 12 months following notice of termination by the
company. As agreed at the time, Dr Garnier’s notice period was
reduced to two years from three years in 1998. Dr Garnier will also
receive three years’ pension accrual on termination and, in certain
circumstances, a further three years’ accrual.40 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration report
Remuneration 2000 – GlaxoSmithKline Directors
Annual compensation 2000 1999
Other Other
Salary and emoluments Salary and emoluments
fees and benefits Bonus Total fees and benefits Bonus Total
Note £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive Directors
Dr J P Garnier a 820 111 1,151 2,082 586 57 821 1,464
Mr J D Coombe b 468 2 321 791 445 2 90 537
Total 1,288 113 1,472 2,873 1,031 59 911 2,001
Non-Executive Directors
Sir Richard Sykes c 1,034 3 708 1,745 983 2 198 1,183
Sir Roger Hurn d 60 – – 60 60 – – 60
Sir Peter Walters e,f,g 324 285 – 609 276 10 – 286
Mr P A Allaire e 63 – – 63 44 – – 44
Dr M Barzach d 35 37 – 72 35 37 – 72
Mr D C Bonham d 35 – – 35 35 – – 35
Sir Christopher Hogg e 65 – – 65 51 – – 51
Mr P J D Job d 35 – – 35 35 – – 35
Mr J H McArthur d 35 13 – 48 35 12 – 47
Mr D F McHenry e 60 – – 60 41 – – 41
Sir Ian Prosser e,h 53 – – 53 19 – – 19
Dr R Schmitz d 35 – – 35 35 – – 35
Dr L Shapiro e,f,i 63 – – 63 43 – – 43
Mr J A Young e,f 66 – – 66 54 – – 54
Total 1,963 338 708 3,009 1,746 61 198 2,005
Total compensation 3,251 451 2,180 5,882 2,777 120 1,109 4,006
a Dr Garnier was an Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham during 1999 and 2000. He was appointed Chief Executive Officer of
SmithKline Beecham on 28th April 2000, at which time his salary increased from £586,420 to £771,605. His salary and fees also include
the company match on compensation that is deferred.
b Mr Coombe was an Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome during 1999 and 2000.
c Sir Richard Sykes was Executive Chairman of Glaxo Wellcome during 1999 and 2000. He was remunerated as an Executive Director
andreceived an annual performance bonus. From 1st January 2001 he has been remunerated as Non-Executive Chairman of
GlaxoSmithKline. He receives fees consisting of a cash element of £300,000 and a share element of 6,000 GlaxoSmithKline shares.
Inaddition the company has agreed to procure that SirRichard’s pension from the age of 60 will be calculated on the basis of his
salaryas at 31st December 2000 and as if he had remained in full-time employment until his 60th birthday.
d Non-Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome during 1999 and 2000.
e Non-Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham during 1999 and 2000. In December 1999 the Board of SmithKline Beecham approved
additional remuneration for Non-Executive Directors to be paid annually from 2000 entirely in the form of shares, comprising 6,000
SmithKline Beecham shares for the Chairman and 2,000 SmithKline Beecham shares or 400 SmithKline Beecham ADSs for the other
Non-Executive Directors, allocated to share accounts on 30th March each year. On 30th March 2000, the SmithKline Beecham share
price was £8.06 per share and $64.19 per ADS. The value of these shares and ADSs allocated on that date has been included in the
figures for Salary and fees shown above at the market value of the shares and ADSs on the date of allocation. These shares are also
included in Directors’ interests (page 46).
f Sir Peter Walters, Dr Shapiro and Mr Young elected to receive £25,000, $10,000 and $40,000 respectively of their fees above in the
form of shares in both 2000 and 1999. The shares allocated to their accounts are included inDirectors’ interests (page 46).
g Sir Peter Walters’ Other emoluments and benefits include a payment of £274,667, representing the difference between his
remuneration under his arrangements as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of GlaxoSmithKline and those which applied under his
previous arrangements as Non-Executive Chairman of SmithKline Beecham for the balance of the period to April 2002. Under his
arrangements with SmithKline Beecham, Sir Peter Walters received annual fees and benefits totalling £286,000 together with a share
allocation of 6,000 SmithKline Beecham shares.
h Sir Ian Prosser became a Director of SmithKline Beecham on 1st August 1999. Payment in 1999 was for five months only.
i Dr Shapiro was a member of SmithKline Beecham’s Scientific Advisory Board (SAB) until completion of the merger with Glaxo Wellcome.
She received fees of $155,400 in 2000 which included Directors’ fees of $70,400 and $85,000 for services on SmithKline Beecham’s SAB.
Dr Shapiro elected to receive $30,000 of her SAB fees in the form of ADSs.Remuneration reportGlaxoSmithKline 41
Share options
Lapsed Granted
Average
Options – ADSs grant price At 31.12.00 Exercised Number Grant price Number Grant price At 31.12.99
Dr J P Garnier $43.26 2,074,813 15,523 – – – – 2,090,336
No options were granted to Dr Garnier during 2000.
Lapsed Granted
Average
Options – shares grant price At 31.12.00 Exercised Number Grant price Number Grant price At 31.12.99
Mr J D Coombe £14.81 287,948 – – – 245,479 £14.60 42,469
Sir Richard Sykes £14.82 634,949 34,965 482 £13.27 542,465 £14.60 127,931
None of the other Directors had an interest in any option over the company’s shares.
As a consequence of the merger all options listed above have become exercisable, with the exception of the options granted to
MrCoombe during 2000, which will become exercisable from February 2003. In connection with the merger, a circular and listing
particulars were sent to shareholders in July 2000, at which time holders of options over Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham shares
and ADSs were offered the opportunity to exchange those options for options over GlaxoSmithKline shares. Each of the Directors above
elected to exchange all of their then outstanding Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline Beecham options, as applicable, into new options over
GlaxoSmithKline shares and, along with all other Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham share option plan participants who elected to
exchange their options, will receive an additional benefit of a cash sum equal to ten per cent of the exercise price of the original option.
This additional benefit will be given when the new option is exercised, provided the exercise is on or after the second anniversary of the
effective date of the merger (or, as in the case of Sir Richard Sykes, on cessation of executive employment, if earlier).
The Directors held these options under the Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham share option plans referred to in Note 33 to the
financial statements. The options under the Glaxo Wellcome share option plans are exercisable from August 2002 to February 2010. The
options under the SmithKline Beecham share option plans are exercisable from November 1996 to November 2009. The share price on
15thMarch 2001 was £18.00 per GlaxoSmithKline Share and $51.80 per GlaxoSmithKline ADS.
The highest and lowest share prices during the year ended 31st December 2000 for GlaxoSmithKline shares were £21.10 and £14.40,
respectively. The highest and lowest prices for GlaxoSmithKline ADSs during the year to 31st December 2000 were $63.75 and $46.00,
respectively. The market prices for GlaxoSmithKline shares and GlaxoSmithKline ADSs on 31st December 2000 were £18.90 and $56.00,
respectively.
Grant Market
Options exercised – ADSs Date Number price price
Dr J P Garnier 12.05.00 15,523 $12.88 $58.69
Grant Market
Options exercised – shares Date Number price price
Sir Richard Sykes 18.09.00 34,965 £5.72 £19.29
The gain on options exercised by Directors during the year to 31st December 2000 was £936,315, comprising £461,840 relating
to DrGarnier and £474,475 relating to Sir Richard Sykes. This compares to a gain on exercise of options during the year to
31st December 1999 of £1,084,540, comprising £945,226 relating to Dr Garnier, £123,529 relating to Mr Coombe and £15,785 relating
to Sir Richard Sykes.42 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration report
SmithKline Beecham incentive plans Vested and
deferred Unvested Participations Participations Participations Unvested
participations participations lapsed awarded granted participations
Mid-Term Incentive Plan – GSK ADSs at 31.12.00 at 31.12.00 in 2000 in 2000 in 2000 at 31.12.99
Dr J P Garnier 56,231 92,861 1,133 36,649 – 130,643
No Mid-Term Incentive Plan (MTIP) participations were granted to DrGarnier in 2000.
Where a final award of shares is made, receipt of the award may be deferred by a Director. Dr Garnier deferred receipt of the full amount
awarded in 1999 and 2000. The deferred awards, together with any additional ADSs subsequently received through dividend reinvestment,
arenot included as Directors’ interests (page 46) since technically they are retained in the MTIP until paid out.
Under the terms of the MTIP the number of shares or ADSs actually awarded was determined following the end of the relevant
measurement period and depended on SmithKline Beecham’s relative performance during that period. The measurement period, relating to
participations granted in November 1996 and March 1997 ended on 31st December 1999 and an award equivalent to 97 per cent of the
participations then granted was made on 9th March 2000, when the market price of a GlaxoSmithKline share and a GlaxoSmithKline ADS
(restated to reflect the merger) was £15.59 and $49.42 respectively.
In connection with the merger, the performance conditions in respect of grants made in 1997 (after March 1997), 1998 and 1999 have
been waived, although the final award will not be made to employees who resign before the end of the relevant measurement period.
The measurement period relating to participations granted in November 1997 ended on 31st December 2000 and a final award of
100percent of the target number of shares in that grant was confirmed on 8th February 2001. At that time the market price of a
GlaxoSmithKline share and a GlaxoSmithKline ADS was £18.38 and $53.52 respectively.
Average
Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) – GSK ADSs grant price At 31.12.00 Exercised Granted At 31.12.99
Dr L Shapiro $50.34 1,487 887 – 2,374
Dr Shapiro was a member of SmithKline Beecham’s Scientific Advisory Board (SAB) from 1993 until the completion of the merger with
GlaxoWellcome. Along with other members of the SAB, she received annual grants of SmithKline Beecham SARs that, in general, vested
three years from the date of grant. Grants of SARs to SAB members ceased in 1999.
SARs entitle the holder to a cash sum at a future date based on share price growth between the date of grant and the date of exercise.
Full provision is made in the accounts for accrued gains on SARs from the date of granting them. In connection with the merger, all
previously granted SARs became immediately exercisable.
The market price of a GlaxoSmithKline ADS on 31st December 2000 was $56.00.
Grant Market
SARs exercised Date Number Price Price
Dr L Shapiro 24.04.00 887 $28.16 $59.86
The gain on the SARs exercised by Dr Shapiro during 2000 amounted to £18,517.Remuneration reportGlaxoSmithKline 43
Glaxo Wellcome incentive plans Shares exercised
Average
market price Gain on
Shares on exercise exercise Shares Shares
Annual Incentive Plan – GSK shares at 31.12.00 Number £ £ granted at 31.12.99
Mr J D Coombe – 32,656 18.29 82,766 – 32,656
Sir Richard Sykes – 72,893 18.37 115,780 – 72,893
Sir Richard Sykes and Mr Coombe exercised their options on shares awarded under the Annual Incentive Plan that was operated by Glaxo
Wellcome between 1996 and 1998. The awards were released to Directors in March 2000 in respect of the award in 1996 and on
completion of the merger in respect of the awards in 1997 and 1998. The gain on exercise in the table above represents the difference
between the money value on exercise and the amount included as remuneration in the year to which the award related.
Shares exercised
Average Money
market price value on
Shares on exercise exercise Shares not Shares Shares
Long-Term Incentive Plan – GSK shares at 31.12.00 Number £ £ vesting granted at 31.12.99
Mr J D Coombe 66,220 29,712 17.36 515,800 7,428 23,013 80,347
Sir Richard Sykes 147,344 66,852 17.01 1,137,153 16,713 50,856 180,053
The awards made in March 1997 vested on 27th March 2000; based on the performance of Glaxo Wellcome over the three-year period
ended on that date the awards vested as to 80 per cent. Both Mr Coombe and Sir Richard Sykes exercised these awards during the year.
The awards made in March 1998, March 1999 and February 2000 vest in March 2001, March 2002 and February 2003 respectively.
Performance conditions lapsed upon completion of the merger. Shares under the Glaxo Wellcome Long-Term Incentive Plan are awarded
atnil cost.
Pensions
Pension benefits are accruing to the following Directors under defined benefit schemes. The accrued annual benefits for individual Directors
on retirement are set out below:
Change over
year net of
31.12.00 inflation
Age £000 £000
Dr J P Garnier 53 833 48
Mr J D Coombe 56 258 39
Sir Richard Sykes 58 657 100
Dr Garnier is a member of the SmithKline Beecham all-employee US Pension Plans. He has no entitlement to a spouse’s or children’s
pension other than by surrendering a part of his own pension. On early retirement, his pension will be reduced by the same factors,
relating to age and service, that apply to all employees. However, in Dr Garnier’s case, he receives an additional three years’ service when
he retires from GlaxoSmithKline. Pension increases may be granted on a discretionary basis. No transfer values are payable on leaving
thePlans.
Mr Coombe and Sir Richard Sykes are members of the Glaxo Wellcome UK Pension Plan. Their spouses would be provided with a pension
of two-thirds of the executive’s pension in the event of their death. In the event that either decided to retire early, the pension would be
reduced by three per cent for each year before the age of 60 that they retire. Pensions are guaranteed to increase in payment by the rate
of increase in the UK Retail Price Index (RPI) up to a maximum of 12 per cent a year. Discretionary increases may be paid in addition. No
allowance would be made for discretionary increases in the transfer values on leaving.44 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration report
Remuneration 2000 – Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham Directors
Other Contractual
Fees and emoluments termination Total Total
salary and benefits Bonus payments 2000 1999
Glaxo Wellcome Directors £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Mr R A Ingram 708 118 484 – 1,310 861
Mr J M T Cochrane 412 14 282 1,198 1,906 482
Dr J E Niedel 468 27 321 – 816 568
Mr J A W Strachan 434 3 297 1,265 1,999 498
Executive Directors 2,022 162 1,384 2,463 6,031 2,409
Professor A Li (Non-Executive) 35 – – – 35 35
Total compensation 2000 2,057 162 1,384 2,463 6,066 –
Total compensation 1999 1,915 150 379 – – 2,444
Payments made to former Directors 249 455
Total 6,315 2,899
Executive Directors above exercised their options on shares awarded under the Annual Incentive Plan that was operated by Glaxo Wellcome
between 1996 and 1998. The awards were released to Directors in March 2000 in respect of the award in 1996 and on completion of the
merger in respect of the awards in 1997 and 1998. The gains on exercise, representing the difference between the money value on
exercise and the amount included as remuneration in the year to which the award related, were £44,731 for Mr Ingram, £65,931 for
MrCochrane, £78,628 for Dr Niedel, and £70,265 for Mr Strachan.
The awards made in March 1997 under the Long-Term Incentive Plan vested in March 2000; based on the performance of Glaxo Wellcome
over the three-year period ended on that date the awards vested as to 80 per cent. The money value on exercise was £718,664 for
MrIngram, £515,020 for Mr Cochrane, £505,401 for Dr Niedel, and £467,503 for Mr Strachan. Shares under the
Long-Term Incentive Plan were awarded at nil cost.
The gains on options exercised during the year to 31st December 2000 were £200,940 for Mr Ingram and £2,544,502 for Dr Niedel.
MrCochrane and Mr Strachan did not exercise any options.
In accordance with the terms of termination of his contract of employment in 1997, Mr S P Lance exercised in 2000 shares awarded to
himunder the cycle of the Long-Term Incentive Plan which vested in March 2000 and under the 1996 award of the Annual Incentive Plan.
The gain arising was £249,287.
Change
31st December over year net
2000 of inflation
Pensions Age £000 £000
Mr R A Ingram 58 483 91
Mr J M T Cochrane 56 235 38
Dr J E Niedel 56 154 37
Mr J A W Strachan 56 243 37
Mr Ingram is a member of Glaxo Wellcome Inc’s pension plan. He is entitled to a pension benefit of two-thirds of the highest three-year
average earnings upon completion of 19 years of service, with a tapering reduction in entitlement in the event of completion of a shorter
period of service. The unreduced benefit is payable at age 62. For retirement between ages 55 and 62 the benefit is reduced by three per
cent per year. Upon retirement, the benefit is guaranteed to be paid for at least a 15-year period. There is no automatic increase in the
benefit on account of inflation.
Mr Ingram is also a member of a money purchase scheme. Pension contributions of £67,000 (1999 – £38,000) were made to the scheme
in respect of MrIngram.
Mr Cochrane, Dr Niedel and Mr Strachan are members of the Glaxo Wellcome UK Pension Plan. Their spouses would be provided with a
pension of two thirds of the executive’s pension in the event of their death. In the event that any of the executives decided to retire early,
the pension would be reduced by three per cent for each year before the age of 60 that they retire. Pensions are guaranteed to increase
inpayment by the rate of increase in UK RPI up to a maximum of 12 per cent a year. Discretionary increases may be paid in addition.
Noallowance would be made for discretionary increases in the transfer values on leaving.Remuneration reportGlaxoSmithKline 45
Other Contractual
Salary and emoluments termination Total Total
fees and benefits Bonus payments 2000 1999
SmithKline Beecham Directors £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Mr J Leschly 339 26 435 – 800 2,188
Mr A R J Bonfield 288 47 340 1,052 1,727 482
Dr T Yamada 372 150 340 – 862 718
Executive Directors 999 223 1,115 1,052 3,389 3,388
Baroness Hooper (Non-Executive) 61 – – – 61 53
Total compensation 2000 1,060 223 1,115 1,052 3,450 –
Total compensation 1999 1,490 204 1,747 – – 3,441
Payments made to former Directors 3,318 3,737
Total 6,768 7,178
The gains on options exercised during the year to 31st December 2000 were £3,094,973 for Mr Leschly and £149,490 for Mr Bonfield.
DrYamada did not exercise any options.
On 9th March 2000 an award equivalent to 97 per cent of the MTIP participations granted in November 1996 and March 1997 was made
to the following Directors: Mr Leschly 24,726 shares and 49,453 ADSs, Mr Bonfield 2,649 shares, Dr Yamada 9,272 ADSs. The market price
of a share and an ADS on that date was £15.59 and $49.42 respectively.
Mr Leschly realised a gain on exercise of SARs over SmithKline Beecham ADSs of £1,703,350 during the year to 31st December 2000.
Herealised a gain on exercise of SARs over SmithKline Beecham shares of £2,056,605.
Mr Leschly retired as Chief Executive Officer and a Director of SmithKline Beecham after the Annual General Meeting on 28th April 2000.
Under the terms of his retirement arrangements, he continued to be remunerated under the terms of his contract until his contractual
retirement date in September 2000 at which time his employment terminated. Payments made after April 2000 are included in the
payments to former Directors figure above.
Mr Bonfield retired as a Director of SmithKline Beecham with effect from the completion of the merger on 27th December 2000. Under
theterms of his contract, on completion of the merger, Mr Bonfield received a payment of two years’ salary, benefits and bonus which is
included in the table above. In addition, Mr Bonfield received an option over 109,248 GlaxoSmithKline shares under the SmithKline
Beecham Employee Share Option Plan and an award of 19,665 GlaxoSmithKline shares under the SmithKline Beecham MTI Plan when the
market price of a share was £19.00.
Dr Yamada’s benefits for 2000 include £72,145 (1999 – £86,333) for accommodation in the UK up until August 2000, which was provided
by the company to enable him to carry out his duties as Chairman, Research and Development.
Payments to former Directors in 2000 include £854,531 in pension payments and other payments of £2,463,248, including £818,000
inpayment to Mr W R Grant under a deferred fees plan relating to the period during which Mr Grant was a Director of SmithKline
Beckman prior to the merger with Beecham Group in 1989. The deferred fees are payable over five years following Mr Grant’s retirement
in1998 and are fully providedfor.
Change
31st December over year net
2000 of inflation
Pensions Age £000 £000
Mr J Leschly 60 604 69
Mr A R J Bonfield 38 63 14
Dr T Yamada 55 67 16
Executives are expected to retire at age 60. Mr Leschly ceased to be Chief Executive Officer and a Director of SmithKline Beecham after the
SmithKline Beecham Annual General Meeting on 28th April 2000. Under the terms of his retirement arrangements, he continued to be
remunerated under his contract until he reached his contractual retirement age of 60, in September 2000. At that time, he became entitled
to a pension at a rate of two-thirds of his final year’s base salary. Mr Leschly’s spouse would be provided with a pension of 50 per cent of
Mr Leschly’s pension in the event of Mr Leschly’s death. His pension is guaranteed to increase in payment by the rate of increase in UK RPI
up to a maximum of five per cent a year. Discretionary increases may be paid in addition.
Mr Bonfield is a deferred member of the SmithKline Beecham UK Senior Executive Pension Plan. Mr Bonfield’s spouse would be provided
with a pension of 50 per cent of Mr Bonfield’s pension in the event of Mr Bonfield’s death. In the event that he chooses to draw an early
pension, the annual benefit would be reduced by four per cent for each year before the age of 60. His pension is guaranteed to increase
inpayment by the rate of increase in UK RPI up to the maximum of five per cent a year. Discretionary increases may be paid in addition.
Noallowance is made for discretionary increases in transfer values on leaving.
Dr Yamada is a member of the SmithKline Beecham all-employee US Pension Plans. He has no entitlement to a spouse’s or children’s
pension other than by surrendering a part of his own pension. On early retirement, his pension will be reduced by the same factors,
relating to age and service, that apply to all employees. Pension increases may be granted on a discretionary basis. No transfer values are
payable on leaving the Plans.46 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration report
Directors and Senior Management – GlaxoSmithKline
Directors’ interests
Directors’ interests at 31st December 1999 have been converted into GlaxoSmithKline shares and ADSs at the relevant merger ratios. The
following beneficial interests of the Directors of the company are shown in the register maintained by the company in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985:
Shares ADSs
15 March 31 December 31 December 15 March 31 December 31 December
Note 2001 2000 1999 2001 2000 1999
Dr J P Garnier – – – 53,183 52,867 36,550
Mr J D Coombe a,b 160,759 164,203 130,409 – – –
Sir Richard Sykes a,c 492,365 538,665 535,982 – – –
Sir Roger Hurn 10,887 10,539 10,035 – – –
Sir Peter Walters 31,816 31,486 27,317 – – –
Mr P A Allaire – – – 6,148 6,148 11,380
Dr M Barzach 986 812 560 – – –
Mr D C Bonham 8,619 8,445 8,193 – – –
Sir Christopher Hogg 5,128 5,128 4,172 – – –
Mr P J D Job 2,178 2,003 1,738 – – –
Mr J H McArthur – – – 3,712 3,558 3,428
Mr D F McHenry d – – – 6,047 6,043 2,784
Sir Ian Prosser 2,321 2,321 1,161 – – –
Dr R Schmitz – – – 3,840 3,752 1,540
Dr L Shapiro 1,490 1,372 1,006 1,174 1,174 455
Mr J A Young 5,269 5,144 3,694 7,286 7,286 6,828
A GlaxoSmithKline ADS represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares.
a Figures for 1999 include deposited shares under the Glaxo Wellcome Annual Incentive Plan.
b Includes a non-beneficial interest in trusts which hold 20,396 shares at 31st December 2000 (1999 – 24,012) and 16,901 shares at
15th March 2001.
c Includes a non-beneficial interest in trusts which hold 36,612 shares at 31st December 2000 (1999 – 38,300) and at 15th March 2001.
d In addition to the interests shown above, Mr McHenry has interests in a deferred fees plan relating to the period during which
MrMcHenry was a Director of SmithKline Beckman priorto the merger with Beecham Group in 1989. The deferred fees are now
indexed to the total return on GlaxoSmithKline shares and are payable over seven years following Mr McHenry’s retirement. The total
accumulated value of deferred fees on 31st December 2000 (restated to reflect the merger) was equivalent to 20,890 GlaxoSmithKline
ADSs and has been fully provided for.
The interests of the above-mentioned Directors at 15th March 2001 reflect changes between the end of the financial year and 15th March 2001.
Directors’ interests in contracts
Except as described, during or at the end of the financial year no Director or connected person had any material interest in any contract of
significance in relation to the Group’s business with a Group company.
Directors and Senior Management
For US reporting purposes, it is necessary to provide information on compensation and interests of Directors and Senior Management
asagroup (‘the group’). For the purposes of this disclosure, the group is defined as the Directors, members of the Corporate Executive
Team and the Company Secretary at 15th March 2001 (28 persons). In respect of the financial year 2000, the total compensation paid to
the group was £13,915,000 and the aggregate increase in accrued pension benefits was £519,000. As of 15thMarch 2001, the group
owned 1,028,116 shares and 166,356 ADSs, constituting less than one per cent of the outstanding share capital of the company. The
group also held, as of that date, options to purchase 2,644,645 shares and 2,835,113 ADSs, all of which were issued pursuant to Glaxo
Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham executive share option plans. The group may also be awarded shares and ADSs under SmithKline
Beecham’s Mid-Term Incentive Plan and had entitlements under Glaxo Wellcome’s Long-Term Incentive Plan.GlaxoSmithKline 47
Operating and financial review
and prospects
The Operating and financial review and prospects discusses the
operating and financial performance of the Group, the financial
outlook and the financial resources of the Group, under the
following headings:
48 Financial trends and ratios
49 2000 Year – results for the year to 31st December 2000 compared
to the year to 31st December 1999
57 Outlook and risk factors
58 Financial position and resources – at 31st December 2000
Additionally, in accordance with US requirements:
62 1999 Year – results for the year to 31st December 1999 compared
primarily to the year to 31st December 1998
67 Selected financial data UK/US GAAP
68 Results under US GAAP accounting principles 2000 and 1999
The results for each year are compared primarily with the results
for the preceding year. Reference is made also to quarterly and
half-yearly trends within the results.
Exchange
The Group, as a multinational business, operates in many
countriesand earns revenues and incurs costs in many currencies.
The results of the Group, as reported in sterling, are therefore
affected bymovements in exchange rates between sterling and
overseascurrencies.
The company uses the average exchange rates prevailing during the
period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas Group
subsidiary, joint venture and associated undertakings into sterling
and period end rates to translate the net assets of those undertakings.
The currencies which most influence these translations are the
USdollar, the euro and the Japanese yen.
In order to illustrate underlying business performance, excluding
theeffect of exchange rate movements on translation, it is the
Group’s practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange
rate (CER) growth. This represents growth calculated as if the
exchange rates used totranslate the results of overseas companies
into sterling had remained unchanged from those used in the
previous period. The discussion in this review is therefore in terms
of CER unless otherwise stated.48 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Financial trends and ratios
2000 1999 1998
% of % % of % % of
Business peformance £m total CER £m total CER £m total
Sales:
Pharmaceuticals 15,429 85.3 10 13,618 84.2 7 12,563 84.1
Consumer Healthcare 2,650 14.7 3 2,546 15.8 8 2,375 15.9
Total 18,079 100.0 9 16,164 100.0 7 14,938 100.0
Cost of sales (3,811) (21.1) (3,499) (21.6) (3,300) (22.1)
Selling, general and administration (6,732) (37.2) (6,002) (37.2) (5,375) (35.9)
Research and development (2,510) (13.9) (2,285) (14.1) (2,072) (13.9)
Trading profit – retained businesses 5,026 27.8 12 4,378 27.1 3 4,191 28.1
Trading profit – divested businesses 25 76
Trading profit – total 5,026 4,403 4,267
Profit before taxation 5,327 11 4,708 6 4,375
Earnings 3,697 13 3,222 8 2,947
Earnings per share (pence) 61.0p 14 52.7p 8 48.3p
Business performance: results exclude merger items and restructuring costs; sales in 1999 and earlier years exclude Healthcare Services.
Total results
Profit before taxation 6,029 4,236 3,564
Earnings 4,154 2,859 2,435
Earnings per share (pence) 68.5p 46.7p 39.9p
Research and development
Pharmaceuticals 2,435 2,211 2,004
Consumer Healthcare 75 74 68
Total 2,510 2,285 2,072
Interest
Net interest payable 182 162 192
Interest cover 34 times 27 times 20 times
Interest cover is calculated as total profit before interest divided by net interest payable.
Tax rate
Business performance 27.3% 28.2% 29.2%
Total results 28.2% 28.8% 27.4%
Borrowings
Net debt 611 2,357 2,717
Gearing ratio 7% 36% 49%
The gearing ratio is calculated as net debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds and minority interests.Operating and financial review and prospects GlaxoSmithKline 49
2000 Year
World economy World market – pharmaceuticals
The year 2000 commenced with the world economy showing signs Global pharmaceutical sales increased by 11 per cent in 2000 to
that the economic slowdown of 1998 and the turbulent financial £215billion, compared to an increase of 8.5 per cent in 1999.
events of early 1999 had been successfully negotiated. Whole-year
data for 1999 showed that world economic growth had recovered World market by Value % of Growth
geographic region £bn total %
momentum. The outlook for the world economy was favourable
and growth estimates for 2000 generally were being revised USA 91 42 16
upwards. Europe 55 25 8
Germany 11 5 4
The US economy was showing continued robust growth and
France 11 5 8
twoother favourable features of the OECD (Organisation for
UK 7 3 9
Economic Co-operation and Development) economy were
Italy 7 3 12
continuedlow inflation nearly everywhere and some signs of falling
Japan 32 15 5
unemployment in Europe. Attention was fixed firmly on oil markets,
Latin America 14 7 7
with concern being focused on production stability andthe economic
Asia Pacific 12 6 11
consequences of continued significant strengthening of prices.
Middle East, Africa 7 3 10
The first half of the year passed without a recurrence of severe Canada 4 2 15
financial shocks such as those seen in 1999. By the mid-year it had Total 215 100 11
become apparent that the world economy was developing more
favourably, at global and regional levels, than it had for more than
The US market remained buoyant, and now represents 42 per cent
adecade. Nearly all OECD countries were delivering overall growth
of the global prescription pharmaceutical market, compared to
with falling unemployment. Japan was the major exception to the
31per cent a decade ago. There was significant recovery in Japan.
uniformly favourable economic landscape, but it too was showing
some signs of recovery. Non-OECD countries also delivered above- GlaxoSmithKline holds second position in the world pharmaceutical
forecast economic growth in the first half-year. market with a market share of 6.8 per cent (excluding products
divested as a result of the merger), behind Pfizer with a market
Projections for overall OECD area economic growth in 2000 reached
share of 7 per cent. Rankings in the worldpharmaceutical market
levels last seen in 1998 and expectations for world trade, similarly,
have changed significantly over thepast year due to the impact of
were at high levels. Confidence levels appeared to be high or rising
mergers within the industry; notably between Glaxo Wellcome and
but, amongst the releases of official figures, US economic growth
SmithKline Beecham, Pfizer and Warner-Lambert, and Monsanto
data began to show some signs of slowing, bringing attention back
and Pharmacia & Upjohn.
to the key question of prospects for the US economy after a record
period of economic growth. GlaxoSmithKline has six products in the world’s Top 50 products;
these are Seroxat/Paxil, Augmentin, Flixotide, Imigran, Zantac, and
In August the International Monetary Fund announced that it
Serevent.
hadrevised upwards its forecast for world economic growth but
tempered its optimism with fundamental concerns regarding World market – Value % of Growth
oilmarkets. Prices for oil had tripled between early 1999 and top five therapeutic classes £bn total %
mid-2000 and, whilst consensus thinking was that the price Cardiovascular 38 18 10
wouldprobably weaken, higher energy costs broadly were Central nervous system 31 15 16
feedingthrough into higher prices and slowing growth. Alimentary tract and metabolic 30 14 11
Anti-infectives (bacterial,
Pharmaceutical markets showed consistent growth throughout the
viral and fungal) excluding vaccines 25 11 5
year but prices remained under pressure with legislators and
Respiratory 17 8 11
regulators in several of the world’s largest and wealthiest economies
introducing, or proposing, legislative measures to cut prices and/or
slow the rate of growth of spending on medicines. (Note: Data based on year to 30th September 2000.)
In late October the US Department of Commerce advance estimate
for US GDP growth showed a significant slowing of growth during
the third quarter. Global markets received these data as the long-
anticipated indicator that the record-breaking period of strong US
growth was reaching the turning point. The US GDP data were
reinforced in late November when a downward revision of the
Commerce Department estimate confirmed the slowdown had
brought the overall US economic growth rate close to European
levels – its lowest rate of growth for four years. Global markets
welcomed projections from the US Federal Reserve that the US
economy could be managed through a ‘soft landing’.50 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Exchange The migraine portfolio of Imigran/Imitrexand Naramig/Amerge
grew by five per cent. This reflects a return to growth in the USA,
As indicated in the chart, on average during 2000 sterling exchange
which accounts for three-quarters of sales, where DTC marketing
rates were weaker against the US dollar and the yen and stronger
campaigns and migraine awareness programmes were instrumental
against European currencies than in 1999. In aggregate, currency
in increasing sales. In Europe sales were stable, with strong growth
movements had a net favourable effect on sterling results in
in France offsetting declines in other markets. Imigranwas launched
2000 compared to 1999 of three per cent in respect of sales and
in Japan in April 2000.
two per cent in respect of business performance earnings per share.
Sales of Lamictal, the epilepsy treatment, grew strongly worldwide
£/Euro £/US$ £/JPY Jun 96 = 100 and particularly in the USA where greater market penetration was
140 achieved in an expanding market. Requip, for the treatment of
Parkinson’s disease, now marketed in 20 countries, increased sales
by 20 per cent, benefiting from the positive outcome of a five-year
comparative study published in May 2000. In the smoking cessation
market, Zyban’s growth of 54 per cent reflects its rollout into
100 European markets following European Union approval in April
Jun 96 Dec 96 Jun 97 Dec 97 Jun 98 Dec 98 Jun 99 Dec 99 Jun 00 Dec 00 2000. Initial sales were particularly strong in the UK and Germany.
Pharmaceutical sales Respiratory
Flixotide/Floventcontinues to be the world’s highest selling asthma
GlaxoSmithKline pharmaceutical sales in 2000 amounted to
medication and is also indicated for chronic obstructive pulmonary
£15,429 million, compared to £13,618 million in 1999, an increase
disease (COPD). Sales increased by 29 per cent, notably in the
of 10 per cent. Excluding the sales of divested products (products
USAwhere DTC promotion and an expanding market led to a
divested in 2000 to fulfil regulatory conditions for approval of the
57per cent increase in sales. In Europe, where the Group’s new
Glaxo Wellcome/SmithKline Beecham merger), sales growth of the
combination product, Seretide, has been launched in most markets,
continuing business was 11 per cent. The growth was substantially
sales of Flixotidewere maintained despite Seretide’s success.
all volume increase, with only a minor net increase from price.
Sereventgrew by eight per cent. Again growth was particularly
Sales of new products (those launched in a major market within strong in the US market, where Seretidehas yet to be launched.
thelast five years) were £2,646 million, representing 17 per cent
Seretide, the new combination of Flixotideand Serevent, continues
ofsales, and grew by 60 per cent. Sales of franchise products
to be successfully rolled out in markets around the world,
(established products) were £8,077 million, representing 52 per cent
generating sales of over £200 million in 2000. Significant new
of sales, and grew by 11 per cent. Sales of older products, now less
markets in 2000 included Spain, Italy and Australia. In the UK and
actively promoted, were £4,259 million, representing 28 per cent of
Germany, where Seretidehas been available for over a year, it
sales, and declined by eight percent.
continues to make strong gains in market share. Launch in the USA
In the fourth quarter 2000 pharmaceutical sales growth was five under the name Advairis planned for April 2001. Approval was
per cent (excluding divested products, six per cent). Sales growth in received at the end of 2000 to market the product in the European
the USA was affected by the impact of wholesaler stocking in the Union in the metered dose inhaler delivery device.
third quarter 2000 in anticipation of price increases. Key products,
Whilst there is an impact on sales of Flixotideand Sereventfrom
such as Paxil, Augmentinand Wellbutrin, achieved significantly
theintroduction of Seretide, both continue to be leading asthma
higher growth in prescription volume than in reported sales,
medications as individual products. Combined sales of Flixotide,
indicating that underlying business performance remained strong.
Sereventand Seretideincreased by almost one-third, indicating
Sales growth in Europe was affected by generic competition and
theircollective strength.
mild ‘flu season demand for anti-bacterial products.
In total, anti-asthma/COPD sales grew by 16 per cent. This reflects
Pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area the strong performance of Flixotide, Sereventand Seretide, offset
by declining sales of the older asthma products, Ventolinand
Central nervous system
Becotide, as patients convert to newer products.
In the anti-depressant sector sales of £2 billion were achieved,
withstrong growth of Seroxat/Paxiland Wellbutrincontributing In the rhinitis sector, growth of Flixonase/Flonaseis similarly offset
togrowth of 17 per cent. In the important US market, Paxilwas by decline in the older product, Beconase. Overall, the Group’s
supported by a successful direct-to-consumer (DTC) campaign and products in this sector grew by 12 per cent, supported by DTC
promotional efforts also enabled Wellbutrinto increase its market advertising in the USA, where over two-thirds of sales are made.
share. Both products benefited from overall growth in the US
anti-depressant market. New Drug Application (NDA) dossiers for
Paxilas a treatment for generalised anxiety disorder and for post
traumatic stress disorder were filed with the US Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) in 2000. Paxilwas launched in November
2000 in Japan as the only once-a-day selective serotonin reuptake
inhibitor for treatment of both depression and panic disorder.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 51
Pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area 2000
Total USA Europe RoW
Therapeutic area/ % of 2000 1999 % CER* 2000 % CER 2000 % CER 2000 % CER
major products total 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 £m £m growth £m growth £m growth £m growth
CNS 21 3,279 2,720 16 2,307 15 678 16 294 28
Depression 2,002 1,636 17 1,495 18 334 11 173 31
Seroxat/Paxil 1,550 1,283 17 1,057 18 334 11 159 29
Wellbutrin 452 353 19 438 19 – – 14 58
Migraine 782 716 5 588 5 152 – 42 11
Imigran/Imitrex 705 653 3 542 4 127 (2) 36 6
Naramig/Amerge 77 63 20 46 20 25 15 6 51
Lamictal 289 223 28 138 34 116 20 35 35
Requip 58 49 20 26 19 30 20 2 26
Zyban 115 72 54 60 1 34 >100 21 23
Respiratory 18 2,789 2,382 15 1,122 26 1,117 9 550 10
Flixotide/Flovent 880 666 29 414 57 305 2 161 49
Serevent 622 569 8 330 24 253 (6) 39 14
Seretide 208 48 >100 – – 179 >100 29 >100
Flixonase/Flonase 408 333 16 294 18 45 10 69 14
Ventolin 343 368 (7) 31 (21) 149 (5) 163 (6)
Becotide 205 277 (25) 4 (82) 152 (12) 49 (40)
Anti-bacterials 16 2,472 2,383 2 1,142 7 705 (4) 625 1
Augmentin 1,219 1,110 8 725 13 320 (3) 174 9
Zinnat/Ceftin 430 420 – 204 (7) 113 3 113 10
Fortum 213 232 (9) 40 (17) 88 (1) 85 (14)
Amoxil 199 197 1 52 55 61 (18) 86 –
Anti-virals 12 1,899 1,610 14 917 17 531 13 451 12
HIV 1,145 982 14 686 16 345 18 114 (9)
Trizivir 7 – >100 6 >100 1 >100 – –
Combivir 562 454 21 345 17 173 38 44 (5)
Epivir 309 325 (7) 164 – 100 (9) 45 (22)
Retrovir 61 86 (30) 25 (22) 23 (35) 13 (33)
Ziagen 154 86 75 100 46 44 >100 10 >100
Agenerase 52 31 60 46 52 4 81 2 >100
Herpes 616 564 5 188 14 162 1 266 3
Valtrex 242 177 32 147 24 58 22 37 >100
Zovirax 374 387 (7) 41 (12) 104 (8) 229 (6)
Zeffix 70 15 >100 5 >100 7 >100 58 >100
Relenza 32 16 97 14 29 6 51 12 >100
Metabolic and 8 1,232 886 33 594 >100 248 (13) 390 3
gastro-intestinal
Avandia 462 89 >100 433 >100 8 >100 21 >100
Zantac 575 632 (11) 119 (18) 189 (16) 267 (4)
Lotronex 36 – >100 36 >100 – – – –
Vaccines 6 842 776 11 212 (5) 390 11 240 29
Hepatitis 462 480 (3) 168 (4) 210 (3) 84 (2)
Infanrix 171 120 47 35 59 98 34 38 84
Oncology and emesis 5 710 613 11 499 12 129 9 82 10
Zofran 491 416 13 338 15 93 12 60 6
Hycamtin 95 92 1 63 (5) 23 6 9 40
Cardiovascular 3 463 449 – 282 (8) 120 19 61 10
Coreg 148 125 11 148 17 – – – –
Dermatologicals 2 249 254 (4) 35 (20) 62 (5) 152 –
Arthritis (Relafen) 1 210 275 (28) 183 (30) 17 (7) 10 (23)
Other 5 837 842 (2) 171 (6) 228 (7) 438 2
Total sales
continuing business 97 14,982 13,190 11 7,464 15 4,225 6 3,293 9
Divested products 3 447 428 (2) 241 (1) 43 (5) 163 (3)
Famvir 152 132 11 114 20 18 (13) 20 (5)
Kytril 219 222 (7) 123 (14) 25 1 71 2
Other 76 74 (9) 4 (40) – – 72 (7)
Total pharmaceutical sales 100 15,429 13,618 10 7,705 15 4,268 6 3,456 8
*CER represents sales growth at constant exchange rates. Sterling growth can be calculated from the figures given above. An analysis of sales by quarter is given in the Financial record (page 146 to 149).52 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Anti-bacterials Metabolic and gastro-intestinal
Sales of anti-bacterial products increased by two per cent, with Avandia, GlaxoSmithKline’s new treatment for type 2 diabetes,
growth in Augmentinoffset by flat sales of Zinnat/Ceftinand achieved sales approaching half a billion pounds, the majority in
Amoxiland a decrease in Fortum. theUSA, where it was first launched in 1999. Avandiascripts now
account for over half of the US thiazolidinedione market, a market
With sales reaching £1.2 billion, Augmentincontinued to perform
which grew by 75 per cent in 2000. In April 2000 the US FDA
strongly. In the USA sales grew 13 per cent, with a market share
approved Avandiain combination with a sulphonylurea, having
ofnearly a quarter. Solid growth was achieved in Latin America
previously approved it both as a monotherapy and in combination
andSouth East Asia. In Europe sales were affected by generic
with metformin. Avandiawill be rolled out into Europe and Rest of
competition.
the World markets in 2001. In August 2000 Avandiareceived a
Zinnat/Ceftindeclined by seven per cent in its largest market, the positive recommendation in the UK from the National Institute for
USA, but this was offset by growth in the emerging markets of the Clinical Excellence (NICE).
Middle East, Africa, Latin America and Asia Pacific.
Zantaccontinues to decline in the face of competition from generic
products and alternative anti-ulcerant treatments. The rate of
Anti-virals
decline slowed to 11 per cent in 2000. Zantac’s largest market is
Growth in anti-viral sales of 14 per cent reflects strong growth in
now Japan, where sales remained stable.
the HIV franchise, where the Group markets a range of reverse
transcriptase inhibitors (RTIs) and a recently launched protease Lotronex, a treatment for irritable bowel syndrome, was launched
inhibitor, Agenerase, as well as steady growth in sales of herpes in the USA in March 2000 and generated sales of £36 million
products and continued uptake of new products against other before being withdrawn in November 2000 following discussions
viraldiseases. with the US FDA over the interpretation of data relating to
gastro-intestinal side effects. The company disagreed with the
Sales of RTIs increased by 12 per cent. Combiviragain grew
FDA’s assessment of the safety profile of Lotronex, but agreed to
strongly, reflecting conversion of patients from its constituent single
withdraw it from the US market and has also withdrawn all other
products, Epivirand Retrovir. In aggregate the three products
regulatory submissions worldwide.
achieved real growth of five per cent; excluding the effect of one-
off contracts in Brazil in 1999 which were not repeated in 2000,
Vaccines
underlying growth was nearer eight per cent.
Vaccines sales reached £842 million, an increase of 11 per cent.
The newer RTI, Ziagen, grew by 75 per cent, reflecting continued Inthe hepatitis franchise, Engerix-Bdeclined eight per cent due to
uptake in the USA and in Europe. Trizivir, which combines Epivir, lower sales in the USA, Havrix, for hepatitis A, grew slightly and
Retrovirand Ziagen, was launched in the USA in December 2000 Twinrix, a combined hepatitis A and B vaccine in both adult and
and in the European Union (the UK and France) in January 2001. paediatric strengths, grew five per cent to £95 million.
The triple combination tablet simplifies the dosing regimen for
Infanrix, GlaxoSmithKline’s range of combination vaccines for
patients who are often taking several tablets a day.
diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis (whooping cough), grew 47 per
The new protease inhibitor, Agenerase, also offers some cent. In October 2000 the European Commission approved Infanrix
improvement in dosing regimen. The majority of its sales were in PeNta, which provides additional protection for hepatitis B and
the USA, where it has been available since May 1999. European polioand Infanrix HeXawhich further adds protection against
Union approval was received in October 2000, and the product was haemophilus influenzae typeb disease.
launched in some markets, including the UK and France, before the
end of the year. Oncology and emesis
Zofran, for emesis, a now well-established product and a leader in
The Group’s two herpes treatments, the newer Valtrexand the
its sector, benefited from market growth in the USA, where over
older Zovirax, grew at a combined rate of five per cent. Valtrex
two-thirds of its sales are generated.
continues to protect the Group’s franchise in this area, with strong
increases in all regions and a successful launch in Japan in August.
Other therapeutic areas
Zeffix, for chronic hepatitis B, achieved sales of £70 million. Cardiovascular sales were stable, with 11 per cent growth in Coreg
Firstlaunched in the Asia Pacific region, it performed strongly in and recent launches of Pritorfor hypertension in European markets
theChinese and South Korean markets. offsetting declines in older products. Future sales should benefit
from new data showing Coreg’s effectiveness in treating severe
Relenza, the new influenza treatment, doubled its sales to
heart failure.
£32million and, following launch in Japan in December, is now
available in most major markets. The disposal of the anaesthesia franchise in the USA at the end of
1999 contributed to a fall in this therapeutic area of 21 per cent.
In October 2000, Glaxo Wellcome’s US company also disposed
of its portfolio of dermatological products, contributing to the
four per cent decline in this sector.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 53
Pharmaceutical sales by geographic area Pharmaceutical sales by geographic area 2000
USA Region/ % of 2000 1999 % CER*
Sales in the US market, representing half of total Group major markets total 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 £m £m growth
pharmaceutical sales, grew by 15 per cent. USA 50 7,705 6,276 15
Avandia, launched in June 1999, achieved sales of £433 million Europe 28 4,268 4,288 6
France 5 786 774 10
andis the market leader in its class. It benefited from the withdrawal
UK 5 701 715 (2)
of a competitor product from the market in the first quarter of Italy 4 574 563 10
theyear. Germany 3 482 507 3
Spain 3 424 432 6
Respiratory sales increased by 26 per cent, reflecting in particular Central & 3 472 460 6
increased acceptance of inhaled steroids in the treatment of asthma. Eastern Europe
The planned launch of Seretide/Advairin April 2001 will further Other Europe 5 829 837 6
enhance the potential of the Group’s range of asthma treatments.
Rest of World 22 3,456 3,054 8
Asia Pacific 7 1,049 929 12
CNS sales increased by 15 per cent. In the growing anti-depressant
Japan 5 832 704 5
market, DTC campaigns focussing on social anxiety disorder helped Latin America 4 682 636 2
Paxilto grow by 18 per cent. In the migraine portfolio growth Middle East, Africa 3 511 461 12
offive per cent reversed the decline seen in the previous year, Canada 3 382 324 10
reflecting the promotional efforts in 2000 and some overall
100 15,429 13,618 10
expansion in the market. Lamictal, although a smaller product,
*CER represents sales growth at constant exchange rates. Sterling growth can be calculated
contributed significantly to growth as its sales increased by
from the figures given above. An analysis of sales by quarter is given in the Financial
34percent. record (pages 146 to 149).
In the anti-viral sector, HIV sales grew by 16 per cent, reflecting
continuing growth in the established products and uptake of the Offsetting these strong performances were a decline in sales of
newer products: Ziagen, Ageneraseand initial sales of Trizivir Augmentin, due to a mild ‘flu season and the impact of generic
together generated over £150 million in sales. Approval to market competition in the UK and Germany, and the continuing decline in
Trizivirwas received in November 2000. In the herpes sector strong Zantac. Avandiawas launched in the UK and Germany in late 2000
sales of Valtrexbenefited from the convenience of its once-daily and is expected to be launched in other European markets in 2001.
dosage form and from its wider usage as a long-term herpes
suppression therapy. Rest of World
Overall growth of eight per cent reflects a mix of double digit
Strong growth in sales of Augmentinand Amoxiloffset declines in
growth in Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa, and Canada, with
Ceftinand Fortum, enabling sales in the anti-bacterial area to
slower growth in Japan and Latin America.
outperform market growth. Augmentinbenefited from increased
prescriber awareness of its effectiveness against bacteria resistant In Asia Pacific, the markets principally contributing to sales growth
toother antibiotics. were Australia, the area’s largest market, with launches of Seretide
in August and Zybanin November, and China, where Zeffix,
There was a minor impact on sales growth from product disposals:
launched in 1999, was the key factor in sales growth of 20 per cent.
the anaesthesia portfolio in 1999 and the dermatological range in
October 2000. Lotronex, for irritable bowel syndrome, achieved In Japan, the Group’s second largest market, sales grew by five per
sales of £36 million in 2000 prior to its withdrawal from the market. cent. Sales of asthma products grew by a quarter, and the launch of
Paxilin November and Relenzain December together added £19
Europe million to sales. This was offset by a decline in sales of antibiotics.
Sales in Europe, representing 28 per cent of the Group’s
In Latin America, overall sales growth of two per cent was affected
pharmaceutical sales, grew by six per cent.
by difficult conditions in Brazil. Excluding Brazil, sales in the region
In France, GlaxoSmithKline’s largest market within the region, sales grew by ten per cent. In Mexico, the Group’s largest market in the
grew strongly, reflecting growth in the HIV portfolio and in the region, sales grew by 14 per cent, with good performances in most
asthma franchise; the launch of Trizivirand Seretidein January 2001 therapeutic areas and particularly in vaccines. In Brazil sales were
add to sales potential. In the major markets of Italy, Germany and affected by a government drive to promote generic products and
Spain, Seretidewas a key contributor to growth. The UK market bythe impact of HIV contracts in 1999 which were not repeated
benefited from increased sales of Seretideand a successful launch in2000.
of Zyban, but overall sales declined slightly due to generic
The Middle East and Africa region grew by 12 per cent, with notable
competition and parallel trade.
increases in HIV products and in antibiotics.
The success of Seretidein those markets where it has already been
In Canada sales grew by 10 per cent reflecting strong growth in
launched contributed to a 10 per cent growth in the asthma/COPD
Paxiland recent launches of Seretideand Avandia. The rest of the
range, while growth in Lamictaland launches of Zybancontributed
asthma/COPD range and Wellbutrinalso contributed to growth,
to a 16 per cent increase in total CNS sales. Sales of HIV products
while Zybandeclined by 13 per cent.
increased by 18 per cent, a combination of solid growth in the
established product range and uptake of the recently launched
Ziagen. Sales of Infanrix, the combination vaccine for children, grew
by over a third, with recent approvals for InfanrixPeNtaand Infanrix
HeXaoffering further potential for growth. In the cardiovascular
area, the launch of Pritorled to a 19 per cent increase in sales.54 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Consumer Healthcare sales Trading profit – business performance
2000 1999
£m £m CER% To illustrate GlaxoSmithKline business performance in 2000, the
OTC medicines 1,454 1,434 (1) analysis below of trading profit and the subsequent discussion
Oral care 642 614 6 exclude merger items, restructuring costs and the costs arising
Nutritional healthcare 535 488 9 fromthe disposal of the Healthcare Services businesses in 1999.
Theanalysis and discussion focus on the retained businesses
Total sales continuing business 2,631 2,536 3
ofPharmaceuticals and Consumer Healthcare (the performance
Divested products 19 10 73
ofHealthcare Services in 1999 is dealt with separately).
Total Consumer Healthcare sales 2,650 2,546 3
2000 1999 Growth
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare sales in 2000 amounted to £m % £m % CER%
£2,650 million, compared to £2,546 million in 1999, an increase of Sales 18,079 100.0 16,164 100.0 9
three per cent.
Cost of sales (3,811) (21.1) (3,499) (21.6) (8)
Selling, general
OTC medicines
and administration (6,732) (37.2) (6,002) (37.2) (9)
Sales growth in vitamins and naturals and in dermatologicals was
Research and
offset by declines in other categories, notably in smoking control.
development (2,510) (13.9) (2,285) (14.1) (7)
Gastro-intestinal sales were affected by lower sales of Tumsin
Trading profit 5,026 27.8 4,378 27.1 12
thecompetitive US market. Analgesics were affected by the
voluntary recall of Panadolin Australia, a key market, following
atampering threat. Cost of sales
Cost of sales increased less than the increase in sales. In SmithKline
Smoking control sales declined eight per cent, reflecting
Beecham this reflects the benefits of manufacturing rationalisation;
competition in the US market following the introduction of private
changes in product mix, with benefit from newly launched products;
label Nicotine Replacement Therapy(NRT) gum and patch. The
and reduced external royalties. In Glaxo Wellcome cost of sales
introduction of two new GlaxoSmithKline smoking control products
increased as a percentage of sales, reflecting lower production
in the US market, Clear NicoDermPatchand Nicorette Orange
volumes following stockbuild in 1999, with a reduced rate of
Gum, prevented further inroads from private label brands. Excluding
increase in the second half of the year as manufacturing
the USA, smoking control sales grew by 58 per cent.
rationalisation delivered efficiencies and some benefit from
exchange.
Oral care
Sales of Aquafreshtoothpastes and toothbrushes increased by
Selling, general and administration
13percent, notably in the USA and in Rest of the World markets.
Selling, general and administration (SG&A) increased in line with
This was offset by declines in other oral care brands. In Western
sales growth. Higher selling costs, particularly to support product
Europe, GlaxoSmithKline continues to hold the number one oral
launches of Avandia, Seretideand Paxil, were offset by savings in
care ranking.
administration costs.
Nutritional healthcare
Research and development
Strong sales growth was achieved across the nutritional healthcare
Research and development (R&D) expenditure increased less than
range. Sales of Lucozadebenefited from strong growth of Lucozade
the increase in sales. Pharmaceuticals R&D was £2,435 million and
Sportin the UK.
Consumer Healthcare R&D was £75 million.
Block Drug
Trading profit
In January 2001 GlaxoSmithKline acquired Block Drug, the
Trading profit increased 12 per cent, more than the increase in sales,
manufacturer of Sensodynetoothpaste and other oral healthcare
reflecting management of SG&A in line with sales growth and lower
and consumer products. The acquisition will extend the Consumer
rates of increase on cost of sales and R&D.
Healthcare product range and is expected to be earnings enhancing
in 2001.
Healthcare Services
The Healthcare Services businesses, divested during 1999, contributed
£25 million of trading profit up to the dates of divestment in 1999.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 55
Profit before taxation – business performance Merger items, restructuring costs and divested businesses
The analysis and discussion below of profit before taxation relates to The key items in 2000 are discussed below.
business performance.
Merger
Other operating income/(expense) 2000 1999 The costs of effecting the merger, referred to as ‘transaction costs’,
£m £m
amounted to £121 million. The costs comprise the expenses and
Royalties and other income 153 387
fees in preparing and implementing the Scheme of Arrangement
Other operating expense (63) (138)
forthe merger, including obtaining approvals from shareholders
90 249 andregulatory authorities and securing the admission of
Income from equity investments 184 164 GlaxoSmithKline shares to the Official List of the UK Listing
274 413 Authority. The costs are higher than estimated at the time of issue
of the Listing Particulars in July 2000, in part because of the delay
Net operating income was lower in 2000 than in 1999 due to fewer in completion of the merger pending regulatory approvals.
disposals of older products. Income from equity investments includes
Costs incurred in planning for, and arising from, the integration of
further disposals of Affymetrix shares in the second half of the year,
the Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham businesses into a
reducing the Group’s holding to 16 per cent.
unified GlaxoSmithKline business, referred to as ‘integration costs’,
amounted in 2000 to £400 million. The costs in 2000 include
Disposal of interest in associate
consultancy fees in support of integration planning; severance
The Group reduced its investment in Affymetrix Inc in the first half
costsrecognised in 2000 arising from the initial stages of the
of 2000, realising a gain of £144 million which is accounted as the
integration appointment process; some initial asset write-offs; costs
disposal of an interest in an associate. Subsequently the Group
of £156 million recognised by SmithKline Beecham in respect of
ceased to have significant influence over Affymetrix and at that time
theaccelerated vesting of share options and share incentive awards
ceased to equity account for the investment. Further disposals of
as a result of the merger; and costs recognised by Glaxo Wellcome
shares in Affymetrix were made in the second half of 2000, which
arising from the lapse of performance conditions attaching to share
are included as investment disposals in other operating income.
incentive awards as a result of the merger. Implementation of
integration plans in respect of business operations will commence
Profits/losses of associates and joint ventures
substantively in 2001, and further significant costs are expected to
The share of profits of associates arises principally from SmithKline
be recognised in 2001 and the subsequent two years.
Beecham’s holding inQuest Diagnostics, Incorporated, which has
been held throughout 2000 but only from August in 1999. In order to obtain regulatory approval for the merger, Glaxo
Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham agreed to a number of product
Net interest payable 2000 1999 divestments. The most significant of these divestments were Famvir
£m £m
and Kytril, which were sold in December 2000. Famvirwas sold to
Interest payable (317) (293)
Novartis and Kytrilwas sold to Roche. As part of the sale of Kytrilto
Investment income 158 138
Roche, GlaxoSmithKline purchased the exclusive rights to Coregin
(159) (155) the USA and Canada. The net effect on profit before tax of all
Share of interest payable of associate (23) (7) product divestments was income of £1,416 million.
(182) (162)
Manufacturing and other restructuring
Net interest payable includes the Group’s share of the net interest Costs of £120 million were incurred by Glaxo Wellcome and
ofthe associate, Quest Diagnostics, for the whole of 2000 but only £51million by SmithKline Beecham in implementation of their
from August in 1999. Apart from the Quest Diagnostics interest, previously announced plans for restructuring of manufacturing
interest payable less investment income was broadly stable in 2000 andother activities.
compared to 1999, reflecting a consistent average level of net debt
in2000 and in 1999. The proceeds from the disposal of divested Associate
products were received in late December 2000, with only a minor These costs represent the Group’s share of restructuring costs
benefit to net interest payablein 2000. incurred by the associate, Quest Diagnostics.
Profit before taxation Divested businesses
Other operating income, together with the disposal of the interest The impact of the disposal of the Healthcare Services businesses in
inanassociate, added £418 million to profit before taxation in August 1999 was £14 million in 2000 and £9 million net credit in
2000, compared to £452 million in 1999. Taking account of the 1999. Restructuring costs incurred by Healthcare Services in 1999
contribution from associates, comprising share of profit less share were £30 million.
ofinterest, less theGroup’s own net interest payable, profit before
tax was £5,327million, compared to £4,708 million in 1999, an
increase of 11per cent.56 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Taxation 2000 1999 Earnings 2000 1999
£m £m £m £m
Business performance (1,454) (1,327) Earnings 4,154 2,859
Merger restructuring and disposal Earnings per Ordinary Share 68.5p 46.7p
of subsidiaries (245) 109 Earnings per ADS $2.08 $1.51
Total taxation (1,699) (1,218)
Adjusted earnings 3,697 3,222
Business performance Adjusted earnings per Ordinary Share 61.0p 52.7p
The charge for taxation on business performance profit amounting to Adjusted earnings per ADS $1.85 $1.71
£1,454 million represents an effective tax rate of 27.3 per cent. This Weighted average number of shares (millions) 6,065 6,118
is consistent with the rate of 27.5 per cent expected by Glaxo
Wellcome for 2000 and the rate of 27 per cent expected by Adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per sharearepresented
SmithKline Beecham. above in order to illustrate business performance of
GlaxoSmithKline.
The tax rate benefits from lower rates of tax applicable to
manufacturing operations in Singapore, Puerto Rico and Ireland. Adjusted earnings increased by 13 per cent CER. Adjusted earnings
The tax rate benefits additionally from reduced uncertainties per share increased by 14 per cent CER, reflecting the lower
following resolution in 1999 of Glaxo Wellcome’s long-standing UK weighted average number of shares. The weighted average number
transfer pricing issues and from lower statutory rates in anumber of of shares, for the purposes of earnings per share, decreased due
overseas territories. topurchases of shares by the Employee Share Ownership Trust to
satisfy future exercises of share options.
Transfer pricing issues are nonetheless inevitable for a global
business such as GlaxoSmithKline. The integrated nature of the
Group’s worldwide operations, involving significant investment in
research and strategic manufacture at a limited number of
locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into
numerous end-markets, gives rise to complexity and delay in
negotiations with revenue authorities as to the profits on which
individual Group companies are liable to tax. Disagreements with,
and between, revenue authorities as to the price at which goods
should be transferred between Group companies in different tax
jurisdictions can produce conflicting claims from revenue authorities
as to the profits that fall to be taxed in individual territories.
Resolution of such issues is a continuing fact of life for
GlaxoSmithKline.
In the USA for a number of years Glaxo Wellcome has had
significant open issues relating to transfer pricing. These issues,
although principally relating to the success of Zantac, cover all years
from 1989 to the present, and there remains a wide variation
between the claims of the US Internal Revenue Service and the
Group’s estimation of its taxation liabilities. The issues are currently
the subject of discussions between the US and UK tax authorities
under the terms of the double taxation convention between the
two countries.
GlaxoSmithKline uses the best advice in determining its transfer
pricing methodology and in seeking to manage transfer pricing
issues to a satisfactory conclusion and, based on external
professional advice, continues to believe that it has made adequate
provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments.
Merger and restructuring
The charge for taxation on merger and restructuring items
amounting to £245 million reflects the estimated actual tax
rateapplicable to the transactions in the territories in which
theyarise.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 57
Outlook and risk factors
Outlook Balancing current growth in sales and investment in research and
development to fuel future growth remains a major challenge.
Improving pharmaceutical sales growth – five per cent CER in
Thegrowth in the Group’s ongoing investment in research
1998, seven per cent in 1999 and 10 per cent in 2000 – is a key
anddevelopment and new product introductions could exceed
driver of GlaxoSmithKline’s current business performance. In
corresponding sales growth. This could result in higher costs
2001 the company expects to launch Advairin the USA and
without a proportional increase in revenues.
Avandiain Europe and other markets.
Pricing pressures, in the USA and other countries around the world,
The company will also benefit from the delivery of at least
including rules and practices of government sponsored health
£1.6 billion in cost savings by 2003 as a result of both the merger
systems, managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental
and the manufacturing plans already in place prior to the merger.
laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare
These benefits of the merger and the performance of the reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement and pricing in general.
business have led the company to forecast EPS growth (excluding
Changes in government laws and regulations and the enforcement
merger and restructuring costs and the effects of currency) for
thereof affecting the Group’s pharmaceutical and vaccine businesses.
2001 of around 13 per cent, despite the adverse effect of
product divestments and reduced dependency on profits from Efficacy or safety concerns with respect to marketed products,
disposals of investments. Importantly the divestments required by whether or not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls,
regulatory bodies in order to complete the merger have had the withdrawals or declining sales.
effect of reducing the company’s EPS expectation for the year by
Legal factors, including product liability claims, antitrust litigation,
six per cent. Additionally, the company expects a trading margin
environmental concerns and patent disputes with competitors, any
improvement of up to two per cent in 2001 as well as an
of which could preclude commercialisation of products or negatively
improvement in the tax rate of a half per cent.
affect the profitability of existing products.
In 2002, the company expects EPS growth to accelerate to the
Lost market opportunities resulting from delays and uncertainties
mid-teens, reflecting strong business performance, boosted by
inthe approval process of the FDA, European and other regulatory
cost savings. For the second year in a row, one-time gains are
authorities.
expected to decline.
Changes in tax laws related to the taxation of the Group’s earnings
While the immediate focus is on delivering a successful merger,
within and outside the UK, particularly with respect to jurisdictions
the company has negligible net debt relative to its market
in which the Group pays tax at rates lower than its overall effective rate.
capitalisation and this positions it to take advantage of any
opportunities that might arise to build the business. Changes in applicable accounting standards that are adverse to
theGroup.
There are risks and uncertainties inherent in the business. These
are discussed in ‘Risk factors’ below. Economic factors over which the Group has no control, including
changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange
Risk factors rates and controls.
There are risks and uncertainties relevant to the Group’s International operations could be affected by changes in intellectual
business. The factors listed below are those that the Group property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations, and
thinks could cause the Group’s actual results to differ materially procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing,
from expected and historical results. Other factors besides those reimbursement and marketing of products, as well as by unstable
listed here could also adversely affect the Group. governments and legal systems, intergovernmental disputes and
possible nationalisation.
Increased competition from other proprietary products (and in
certain cases generic equivalents of such proprietary products upon Growth in costs and expenses, including changes in product mix,
patent expiration) in therapeutic areas important to the Group’s and the impact of any acquisitions or divestitures, restructuring
long-term business performance. andother unusual items that could result from evolving business
strategies, and changing organisational structures.
Generic competition as several products face expiration of patent
protection in the USA and other important markets commencing Continued consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry could affect
in2001. The Group is routinely engaged in disputes over its the Group’s competitive position.
patented products and processes in order toprotect its intellectual
This list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all
property rights.
potential risks and uncertainties.
The difficulties, uncertainties and the high level of investment
inherent in new product development. The outcome of the lengthy
and complex process of new product development is inherently
uncertain. A candidate can fail at any stage of the process and
oneor more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive
regulatory approval. New product candidates may appear promising
in development but fail to reach the market because of efficacy
orsafety concerns, the inability to obtain necessary regulatory
approvals, the difficulty of excessive cost to manufacture and/or
theinfringement of patents or intellectual property rights of
others.Furthermore, the sale of new products may prove to be
disappointing and fail to reach anticipated levels.58 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Financial position and resources
Cash flow Future cash flow
The Group expects that future operating cash flow will be sufficient
A summary of Group cash flow is set out below:
to fund its operating and debt service costs and to satisfy normal
2000 1999 levels of capital expenditure and other routine commitments
£m £m
including tax and dividends. In 2001 and subsequent years
Business performance operating cash flow 5,900 4,991 dividendsare expected to take a lower proportion of cash flow:
Merger and restructuring (459) (175) GlaxoSmithKline’s intended dividend policy, as set out in
Total operating cash flow 5,441 4,816 ‘Shareholder Return’ (page 155), is to allow dividend cover
Earnings from joint ventures 1 2 toincrease.
Net interest and minority dividends (322) (315)
In 2001 and subsequent years the Group expects cash outflows from
Tax payments (1,240) (1,095)
integrating the operations of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline
Free cash flow 3,880 3,408 Beecham into a unified GlaxoSmithKline business, as well as further
Capital expenditure (1,057) (1,128) cash outflows from the continued implementation of manufacturing
Net cash from operations 2,823 2,280 restructuring plans.
Dividends on ordinary shares (2,028) (1,833)
The Group expects to continue to fund purchases by the ESOTs of
Business acquisitions (25) (67)
GlaxoSmithKline shares to satisfy future exercises of share options.
Business disposal (62) 1,002
The amount and timing of such purchases will depend on market
Sales less purchase of equity investments 227 133
conditions.
Sales less purchase of interest in associates 153 38
Purchase of own shares for share options (1,232) (1,291) The Group may from time to time have additional demands for
Use of own shares on exercise of share options 206 45 finance, such as for acquisitions. The Group has access to other
Shares issued on exercise of share options 185 171 sources of liquidity, in addition to the cash flow from operation,
Proceeds from product divestments 1,529 – forsuch needs. In the absence of special calls on funds, net cash
Other movements including exchange (30) (118) generation will be allowed to reduce net debt.
Reduction in net debt 1,746 360
Financial position
The net cash inflow from business performance operating activities A summarised, re-classified presentation of the Group balance sheet
was £5,900 million, an increase of nearly £1 billion over 1999. This is set out below:
reflects the increase in operating profit and, after several years of 2000 1999
stock build to prepare for Year 2000 and new product launches, £m £m
alower increase in working capital. Goodwill 170 160
Intangible fixed assets 966 926
After merger and restructuring items, net interest payments, minority
Tangible fixed assets 6,642 6,402
dividends and tax payments, free cash flow, representing cash flow
Investments 388 361
before discretionary spending, amounted to £3,880 million, an
Working capital 4,801 4,412
increase over 1999.
Other debtors and creditors (1,617) (1,192)
Capital expenditure on tangible and intangible fixed assets Provisions (1,657) (1,675)
amounted to £1,103 million in 2000, consisting mainly of the Taxation (2,101) (1,495)
routine investment in plant renewals and upgrades. Expenditure Deferred taxation 889 742
waslower than in 1999, reflecting a curtailment of projects Net operating assets 8,481 8,641
pendingcompletion of the merger. Disposals realised £46 million. Own shares 2,327 1,495
Net cash from operations of £2,823 million was sufficient to fund Dividend proposed (1,242) (1,172)
the payment of dividends, as well as the investment of £25 million Net debt (611) (2,357)
inthe acquisition of minority interests in Group subsidiaries. A total Net assets 8,955 6,607
of £380 million was realised from sales, less purchases, of
investments in equity shares. Shareholders’ funds 7,711 5,464
Minority interests 1,244 1,143
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham funded the purchase by
Financing of net assets 8,955 6,607
their respective Employee Share Ownership Trusts (ESOTs) of shares,
now of GlaxoSmithKline plc, to satisfy future exercises of options
The book value of Group net assets increased from £6,607 million
and awards under employee share incentive schemes, at a total
at31stDecember 1999 to £8,955 million at 31st December 2000.
costof £1,232 million. A total of £391 million was received on
There was no significant net effect from exchange rate movements.
employees’ exercise of share options: exercises satisfied from shares
The increase is represented by further purchases of own shares by the
previously purchased by the ESOTs yielded £206 million; exercises
ESOTs and the reduction in net debt.
satisfied from the issue of new shares yielded £185 million.
The major products divested to obtain regulatory approval for the
merger generated proceeds of £1,529 million in December 2000.
Excluding the share option items and the product divestments,
Group cash generation was substantially positive with a net inflow
of more than £1 billion. Including the share option items, the
product divestments and other movements, there was a reduction
innet debt of £1,746 million.Operating and financial review and prospects GlaxoSmithKline 59
Investments Market capitalisation
GlaxoSmithKline had investments at 31st December 2000 with a The overall value of the company, as indicated by its stock
carrying value of £388 million. In the balance sheet in the financial marketcapitalisation, is considerably higher than the value of
statements, the investments are classified partly as fixed assets and shareholders’ funds shown on the Group balance sheet. This
partly as current assets. The investments are mainly in equity shares difference arises because the Group has significant internally
where the holding derives directly from the Group’s business: either generated intangible assets which are not included on the
arising from a business divestment, or in connection with a research balance sheet. These include the intellectual property, particularly
collaboration, or as access to biotechnology developments of patents, created by the research and development process; the
potential interest to GlaxoSmithKline. The Group manages the value of brands, as reflected in trade marks, arising from the
investments for resale, although certain investments have restrictions Group’s investment in marketing; as well as the value to the
on sale. The market value of the investments at 31st December 2000 Group of the knowledge and know-how of its employees.
was approximately £2 billion, but the market values can be volatile.
Payment policies
Provisions
Group companies are responsible for monitoring and managing
The Group carried provisions of £1,657 million at 31st December
their working capital. The terms of sales collections and supplier
2000 in respect of estimated future liabilities, of which some £900
payments will reflect local commercial practice.
million related to unfunded pensions and other post-retirement
benefits for employees. Provision has been made for the costs of In the UK, the company and each of its UK subsidiaries operate
manufacturing restructuring and merger integration to the extent procedures to ensure that suppliers are paid on time. In particular,
that at the balance sheet date an actual or constructive obligation the UK companies seek:
existed. In the case of merger integration the majority of the costs
• to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the
are expected to be recognised between 2001 and 2003.
terms of the transaction
• to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the agreed terms
Own shares
ofpayment
At 31st December 2000 the ESOTs held 161.3 million shares of
• to abide by the terms of payment.
GlaxoSmithKline against potential commitments under employee
share incentive plans at that date of 228.1 million shares, of which The procedures include arrangements for accelerated payment of
186.6 million were exercisable. small suppliers.
Glaxo Wellcome, on behalf of itself and its UK subsidiaries,
Net debt
isasignatory to the Better Payment Practice Code of the Better
Group net debt at 31st December comprised:
Payment Practice Group, a successor code to the Prompt Payment
2000 1999
Code of the Confederation of British Industry. It continues to be
£m £m
thecompany’s policy to follow the Code in respect of all suppliers.
Cash and liquid investments 3,421 2,359
Copies of the Code may be obtained from the Department of Trade
Borrowings – repayable within one year (2,281) (2,819)
and Industry.
Borrowings – repayable after one year (1,751) (1,897)
Net debt (611) (2,357) SmithKline Beecham did not adopt a standard or code which deals
specifically with the payment of suppliers.
Cash and liquid investments include the proceeds from the product
divestments received at the end of December 2000. During the year Payment performance
medium-term debt instruments of approximately £800 million were At 31st December 2000, the average number of days’ purchases
redeemed on maturity, financed primarily from additional issues represented by trade and fixed asset creditors of the company
under commercial paper programmes. Cash generated from wasnil days and in respect of the company and its UK subsidiaries
operations was used to reduce short-term debt. in aggregate was 22 days (1999 – 21 days). Creditor days at
31stDecember 1999 reflected accelerated payments in December
Shareholders’ funds 1999 by way of contingency planning against the risk of disruption
A summary of the movements in equity shareholders’ funds is set to bank transactions at the millennium change.
out below.
2000 1999
£m £m
At beginning of year 5,464 4,449
Profit for the year 4,154 2,859
Dividends (2,097) (2,005)
Shares issued on exercise of share options 185 171
Exchange movements on overseas net assets 3 (345)
Goodwill written off to profit and loss 2 335
At end of year 7,711 5,464
Shareholders’ funds have increased from £5,464 million at 31st
December 1999 to £7,711 million at 31st December 2000. This is
due primarily to retained profits and also to shares issued under
share option schemes.
For information on dividends and market capitalisation, refer to
Shareholder Return (page 154).60 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Treasury policies GlaxoSmithKline balances the use of borrowings and liquid assets
having regard to: the cash flow from operating activities and
Merger
thecurrencies in which it is earned; the tax cost of intra-group
Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc merged on
distributions; the currencies in which business assets are
27thDecember 2000 to form GlaxoSmithKline plc. Until that date,
denominated; and the post-tax cost of borrowings compared
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham operated as separate
tothepost-tax return on liquid assets.
businesses under the management of their respective Boards.
TheGlaxoSmithKline treasury policies noted below are those Liquid assets surplus to the immediate operating requirements of
previously operated by both Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Group companies are invested and managed centrally by Corporate
Beecham, exceptwhere indicated. Treasury. Requirements of Group companies for operating finance
are met whenever possible from central resources.
Treasury
External borrowings, mainly managed centrally by Corporate
GlaxoSmithKline plc is a UK-based business, reporting in sterling
Treasury, comprise a portfolio of medium-term instruments and
and paying dividends out of sterling profits.
short-term finance.
The role of Corporate Treasury in GlaxoSmithKline will be to manage
GlaxoSmithKline does not hold or issue derivative financial
and monitor the Group’s external and internal funding requirements
instruments for trading purposes and the Group’s Treasury policies
and financial risks in support of Group corporate objectives.
specifically prohibit such activity. All transactions in financial
Treasury activities will be governed by policies and procedures
instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from
approved and monitored by the Board. GlaxoSmithKline maintains
underlying business activities, not for speculation.
treasury control systems and procedures to monitor foreign
exchange, interest rate, liquidity, credit and other financial risks.
Maturity and counterparty risk
The Group invests centrally managed liquid assets primarily in
Liquidity
Government bonds and short-term debt instruments with a
The Group operates globally, primarily through subsidiary companies
minimum AA rating.
established in the markets in which the Group trades. Due to the
nature of the Group’s business, with patent protection on many The Group manages its net borrowing requirement through a
ofthe products in the Group’s portfolio, the Group’s products portfolio of medium-term borrowings, including bonds, together
compete largely on product efficacy rather than on price. Selling with short-term finance under a US$ commercial paper programme.
margins are sufficient to cover normal operating costs and the
The Group’s medium-term borrowings mature at dates between
Group’s operating subsidiaries are substantially cash generative.
2001 and 2006. The Group allows cash generation to finance
Operating cash flow is used to fund investment in the research and repayment of medium-term debt and to reduce short-term
development of new products as well as routine outflows of capital borrowings.
expenditure, tax and dividends. The Group will from time to time
GlaxoSmithKline’s long-term debt rating is AA from Standard and
have additional demands for finance, such as for share purchases
Poor’s and Aa2 from Moody’s. The agencies’ short-term rating for
and acquisitions.
paper issued under the Group’s commercial paper programme is
GlaxoSmithKline operates at low levels of net debt. In addition A1+ and P1 respectively.
tothe strong positive cashflow from normal trading activities,
additional liquidity is readily available via the US$ commercial Interest rate risk management
paperprogramme. Glaxo Wellcome operated to a fixed/floating interest-rate profile
broadly consistent with the medium-term/short-term profile of
Treasury operations borrowings.
The objective of treasury activity is to manage the post-tax net
SmithKline Beecham’s policy on interest rate management required
cost/income of financial operations to the benefit of Group
that the proportion of net borrowings at fixed rates rose with the
earnings. Corporate Treasury does not operate as a profit centre.
ratio of forecast net interest payable to trading profit.
GlaxoSmithKline uses a variety of financial instruments, including
No changes to the interest rate profile of borrowings have taken
derivatives, to finance its operations and to manage market risks
place since the merger.
from those operations.
Financial instruments comprise cash and liquid resources, Foreign exchange risk management
borrowings and spot foreign exchange contracts. In Glaxo Wellcome, foreign currency transaction exposure on normal
trade flows arose primarily in Group companies with a sterling
GlaxoSmithKline uses a number of derivative financial instruments
functional currency, both in respect of external and intra-Group
to manage the market risks from Treasury operations. Derivative
trade and was not hedged. Glaxo Wellcome policy was to minimise
instruments, principally comprising forward foreign currency
the exposure of overseas operating subsidiaries to transaction risk
contracts, interest rate and currency swaps, are used by Corporate
bymatching local currency income with local currency costs.
Treasury to swap borrowings and liquid assets into the currencies
Forthispurpose intra-Group trading transactions were matched
required for Group purposes and to manage exposure to market
centrally and intra-Group payment terms were managed to reduce
risks from changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
risk. Exceptional foreign currency cash flows were hedged selectively
under the management of Corporate Treasury.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 61
SmithKline Beecham hedged its foreign exchange transaction Share purchases
exposures, both internal and external, on a rolling 12-month In 2000 the Group funded market purchases by Employee Share
programme using forward foreign exchange contracts. Ownership Trusts of shares in Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline
GlaxoSmithKline has adopted the policy previously followed by Beecham plc amounting to £1,232 million (1999 – £1,291 million).
Glaxo Wellcome. In consequence, SmithKline Beecham’s forward The shares are held by the Employee Share Ownership Trusts to
contracts in respect of internal transactions at the merger date were satisfy future exercises of options and awards under the Group
terminated in January 2001. Forward contracts covering external share option and award schemes. A proportion of the purchases are
currency sales and purchases will be allowed to run to maturity. in respect of options where the rules of the scheme require the
company to satisfy exercises through market purchases rather than
A high proportion of Group borrowings, including the commercial
the issue of new shares.
paper programme, is in US dollars, to benefit from the liquidity of
US$ denominated capital markets. Certain of these and other The greater part of the purchases represents an opportunity
borrowings are swapped into other currencies as required for Group toacquire shares to satisfy future exercises at prices below the
purposes. The Group seeks to denominate borrowings in the exercise price. The purchases are matched to options the majority
currencies of its principal overseas assets. Borrowings denominated ofwhich have become exercisable as a result of the merger. These
in, or swapped into, foreign currencies which match investments in purchases diminish the dilutive effect of new share issues on
overseas Group assets are treated as a hedge against the relevant shareholders’ capital andearnings.
net assets.
The company expects to seek shareholder approval, at the Annual
General Meeting, to make market purchases of its own shares,
Derivative financial instruments and hedging policy
ifsuch purchases are considered to be in the best interests of
The Group uses a limited number of currency swaps and forwards
shareholders generally.
and interest rate swaps to redenominate external borrowings
intothe currencies and interest rate coupon required for Group
purposes. The duration of these swaps matches the duration of European Monetary Union
theprincipal instruments.
GlaxoSmithKline’s European companies are making preparations for
The Group manages centrally the short-term cash surpluses or the full introduction of the single currency within Europe in 2002.
borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies and uses forward Preparations include the conversion of information systems and the
contracts to hedge future repayments back into originating training of staff in new business processes. Local implementation
currency. The contracts are all of less than a year’s duration. teams are supported by a central co-ordination team.
Derivative instruments are accounted as hedges of the relevant In the short-term the company does not expect the costs or benefits
assets or liabilities. from the introduction of the euro to have a material effect on the
Group’s trading performance.
Equity risk management
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments to manage
equity risk. Equity investments classified as current assets are
available for sale and the Group manages disposal to optimise
market price on realisation.
Financial assets and liabilities
An analysis of net debt is given in Note 26 to the financial
statements. An analysis of financial assets and liabilities at carrying
value and fair value and a reconciliation to net debt are given
inNote 34, together with a discussion of derivative financial
instruments and quantitative disclosures about market riskin
accordance with the requirements of Financial Reporting Standard 13.
Group net debt reduced by £1.7 billion between 31st December
1999 and 31st December 2000. This was primarily due to the
receipt in December 2000 of proceeds of £1.5 billion from
productdivestments. Apart from this, GlaxoSmithKline was cash
positive in 2000.
The Group’s financial assets and liabilities at 31st December 2000
are representative of the treasury policies and strategies of Glaxo
Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham respectively, applied consistently
during the year. There were no significant changes in such policies
throughout the year. Since the year end there has been one
significant change: GlaxoSmithKline has adopted Glaxo Wellcome’s
policy of not hedging foreign exchange transaction exposure on
normal trade flows.62 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
1999 Year
In accordance with US SEC disclosure requirements, the following body movements often associated with levodopa, a common
discussion compares results for the year to 31st December 1999 Parkinson’s disease therapy. In September 1999, the Group
withthe results for the year to 31st December 1998. announced that it had entered into a licence agreement with
SkyePharma to develop a once-daily version of Requip.
Exchange
Respiratory
Average sterling exchange rates in 1999 were weaker against the
Growth in respiratory was driven by Flixotide, and by launches of
USdollar and the yen and stronger against European currencies
Seretidein Europe.GlaxoSmithKline remained the leader in asthma
thanin1998. These currency movements had a small net
products with a 31per cent share of the global market.
favourableeffect on sterling results for sales, operating profit,
earningsand earnings per share in 1999 compared to 1998, Flixotide/Flovent, the inhaled corticosteroid, grew by 33 per cent.
overstatingby approximately one per cent the underlying Itwas the world’s leading asthma product and the Group’s third
performance ofthe business. largest product. Growth was strong across all geographic regions,
with growth of 44 per cent in the USA, driven by direct-to-
Growth rates are stated at constant exchange rates.
consumer television advertising and physician education
programmes. Following launch in Japan in November 1998 as
Pharmaceutical sales
Flutide, the productis now available in all major markets.
GlaxoSmithKline pharmaceutical sales in 1999 were £13,618 million,
In October 1999, Flixotidereceived approval for use in the
compared to £12,563 million in 1998, representing an increase of
treatment of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) in
seven per cent. Although there were uncertainties as to likely
Germany, the first approval from a series of applications. Flixotideis
buying patterns before the millennium change, there was only
the first inhaled corticosteroid to be licensed for use in COPD.
aminimal positive effect on Group sales.
Serevent, the long acting bronchodilator used for the treatment of
In 1999, new products launched within the key franchises were
both asthma and COPD, also contributed significantly to growth in
Avandia(for metabolic & gastro-intestinal), Seretide(for asthma),
the respiratory franchise.
Ziagenand Agenerase(for HIV), Zeffix(for hepatitis B), and Relenza
(for influenza). Sales of these products were £285 million in 1999, The new asthma product, Seretidewas launched in several West
and the growth is expected to continue in 2000. Europe markets, contributing nearly £50 million in sales.
In the UK, the Diskusinhaler, a novel delivery device for asthma
Pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area
treatments, won a 1999 Queen’s Award for Technological
Central nervous system Achievement.
In the CNS franchise, a decline of fourper cent in migraine was
Flixonasegrew strongly, with an increase of 25 per cent in the USA.
offset by growth of 21 per cent in Seroxat/Paxil, 25 per cent in
The Group remained the leader in the topical nasal decongestant
Lamictaland 12 per cent in Wellbutrin.
market, with a global market share of 28 per cent.
Seroxat/Paxil, the first selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI)
Sales of older respiratory products in most major markets were
approved for panic and social anxiety disorder, recorded global
affected by competition from both generic products and newer
salesof £1.3 billion up 21 per cent. It is the number one or number
products, but growth was achieved in several emerging markets
two SSRI in 20 countries, including Belgium, France, Ireland, Italy,
and in Australia from the introduction of a CFC-free version
Germany, Greece, the Netherlands, Spain, the UK, Canada and Brazil.
ofVentolin.
Sales of the Group’s migraine products, Imigran/Imitrexand
Naramig/Amerge, declined by four per cent. In the USA, the decline Anti-bacterials
was stabilised in the second half of the year. GlaxoSmithKline Augmentincontinued to deliver a strong performance, increasing
remains the market leader for migraine products in the US market, 16 per cent worldwide. In the USA, Augmentinreached the
with a share of 77per cent of the US select migraine market. $1billion mark while the product’s share rose to 23 per cent of
themarket.
Wellbutrin, for depression, continues to show strong growth,
substantially all of which is generated in the USA and Canada. In Europe, principally France, Belgium and Spain, Augmentinonce
again outperformed the market, enhancing its leadership position
Lamictal, for epilepsy, has continued to develop into a major
despite patent expiry in a number of countries.
product with strong growth in many markets contributing to an
increase in sales of 25 per cent. Zinnatgrew strongly in the emerging markets of Central and
Eastern Europe, Africa and the Middle East and Latin America.
Sales of Zyban, for treating the problem of smoking addiction,
Increased competition in the more established markets of USA and
declined in the US market, with the decline in the first half of the
West Europe caused a decline of oneper cent. Sales of Fortum,a
year stabilised in the second half. This was partially offset by strong
mature product, declined. Amoxil, one of the main products for
growth in Canada. InDecember 1999, the Group received
prescription medicines in France, showed growth of two per cent.
regulatory approval in theNetherlands, acting as the reference state
in Europe, to marketZyban.
Requipbenefited from its continued rollout in Europe. Sales rose to
£49 million, an increase of 76 per cent. A landmark study released
in July 1999 at a scientific congress on Parkinson’s disease showed
that Requipis 15 times less likely to produce dyskinesias, involuntaryOperating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 63
Pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area 1999
Total USA Europe RoW
Therapeutic area/ % of 1999 1998 % CER* 1999 % CER 1999 % CER 1999 % CER
major products total 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 £m £m growth £m growth £m growth £m growth
CNS 20 2,720 2,400 12 1,880 7 621 23 219 28
Depression 1,636 1,352 19 1,189 17 321 25 126 25
Seroxat/Paxil 1,283 1,045 21 844 20 321 25 118 19
Wellbutrin 353 307 12 345 10 – – 8 >100
Migraine 716 732 (4) 520 (8) 160 9 36 6
Imigran/Imitrex 653 698 (8) 484 (11) 137 2 32 (1)
Naramig/Amerge 63 34 84 36 73 23 90 4 >100
Lamictal 223 177 25 96 26 101 24 26 29
Requip 49 28 76 20 67 27 81 2 >100
Zyban 72 96 (26) 55 (41) 1 >100 16 >100
Respiratory 17 2,382 2,096 13 829 16 1,076 11 477 11
Flixotide/Flovent 666 498 33 245 44 319 17 102 72
Serevent 569 498 14 248 13 287 12 34 36
Seretide 48 – >100 – – 47 >100 1 >100
Flixonase/Flonase 333 273 19 233 25 43 1 57 11
Ventolin 368 380 (3) 37 (30) 163 (1) 168 4
Becotide 277 309 (11) 20 (26) 179 (8) 78 (14)
Anti-bacterials 17 2,383 2,278 4 1,001 10 783 2 599 (1)
Augmentin 1,110 954 16 600 26 353 5 157 9
Zinnat/Ceftin 420 411 2 205 (1) 118 3 97 5
Fortum 232 237 (5) 45 (4) 95 (5) 92 (6)
Amoxil 197 204 2 31 >100 81 (8) 85 (4)
Anti-virals 12 1,610 1,347 17 733 26 506 14 371 7
HIV 982 779 26 550 31 311 24 121 10
Trizivir – – – – – – – – –
Combivir 454 267 71 275 37 134 >100 45 99
Epivir 325 359 (10) 152 (6) 118 (11) 55 (18)
Retrovir 86 150 (43) 31 (47) 37 (47) 18 (22)
Ziagen 86 3 >100 64 >100 19 >100 3 >100
Agenerase 31 – >100 28 >100 3 >100 – –
Herpes 564 535 – 154 5 174 (2) 236 –
Valtrex 177 133 32 110 29 51 38 16 32
Zovirax 387 402 (10) 44 (28) 123 (13) 220 (2)
Zeffix 15 2 >100 2 (12) 1 >100 12 >100
Relenza 16 – >100 10 >100 5 >100 1 >100
Metabolic and 7 886 908 (6) 233 6 303 (10) 350 (8)
gastro-intestinal
Avandia 89 – >100 88 >100 – – 1 >100
Zantac 632 755 (19) 135 (35) 240 (16) 257 (10)
Vaccines 6 776 726 7 210 5 375 3 191 19
Hepatitis 480 531 (9) 164 (11) 230 (4) 86 (20)
Infanrix 120 96 26 21 51 78 5 21 >100
Oncology and emesis 5 613 549 10 417 11 126 11 70 (2)
Zofran 416 389 5 275 7 88 7 53 (9)
Hycamtin 92 69 30 62 34 24 20 6 39
Cardiovascular 3 449 390 14 287 19 109 2 53 17
Coreg 125 69 75 118 >100 1 (84) 6 33
Dermatologicals 2 254 243 4 42 (21) 68 – 144 16
Arthritis (Relafen) 2 275 301 (11) 245 (10) 18 (15) 12 (12)
Other 6 842 949 (11) 171 (32) 254 4 417 (7)
Total sales
continuing business 97 13,190 12,187 7 6,048 8 4,239 8 2,903 4
Divested products 3 428 376 8 228 13 49 4 151 9
Famvir 132 102 26 89 30 23 3 20 50
Kytril 222 205 4 133 – 26 5 63 14
Other 74 69 (8) 6 >100 – – 68 (4)
Total pharmaceutical sales 100 13,618 12,563 7 6,276 9 4,288 8 3,054 4
*CER represents sales growth at constant exchange rates. Sterling growth can be calculated from the figures given above.64 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Anti-virals First year sales of LYMErix, the world’s first vaccine for the
The viral infections franchise benefited from the launch of the new prevention of Lyme disease, reached £25 million. Lyme disease is
HIV products, and from further growth of Combivir. The Group’s apotentially debilitating condition, particularly prevelant in parts
HIV portfolio showed a growth of 26 per cent, with growth ofNorth America, caused by the bite of infected ticks.
accelerating in the second half of the year.
Oncology and emesis
GlaxoSmithKline remained the market leader in HIV. Combivir
Growth in the oncology area was driven by Zofranand in particular
became the largest of the Group’s HIV products, reflecting
by the orally disintegrating tablet (ODT) formulation launched into
conversion from Epivirand Retrovir.
the US market in 1999.
Product launches of Ziagenand Ageneraseadded £114 million
Hycamtingrew 30 per cent to £92 million. It is approved in
tosales growth in 1999. Ziagen, a new generation reverse
61countries for second-line treatment of ovarian cancer, and
transcriptase inhibitor, was first launched in the USA in 1999 and
18countries for second-line treatment of small cell lung cancer.
received regulatory approval for European launch in July 1999.
Agenerase, a protease inhibitor, was launched in the USA in
Other therapeutic areas
May1999.
In the cardiovascular sector sales of Coreggrew 75 per cent to
In December 1999, the Group submitted regulatory applications to £125 million.
market Trizivir, a new triple combination therapy combining Ziagen
Sales of dermatological products increased to four per cent.
and Combivir, in the European Union and the USA. Triziviris the
first medicine to combine three anti-HIV therapies in one tablet, Sales of the arthritis treatment Relifex/Relafen(nabumetone), a
offering a simple dosing regime to assist adherence to treatment. non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, declined 11 per cent as a
result of increased competition from COX-2 inhibitors.
In the herpes area, strong sales growth of Valtrex, notably in the
USA, France and Italy, offset a modest decline in sales of Zovirax Sales of ‘other products’ declined largely due to the disposal of
due to generic competition. Despite the competition from generic various older products in certain markets and the cessation of
aciclovir, GlaxoSmithKline remained the leader in the global herpes salesunder contracts for the manufacture of OTC products for
market with a market share of 49 per cent. Warner-Lambert.
The Group’s influenza treatment, Relenza, was launched in North
Divested products
America and in West Europe markets and approval was received in
Sales of products divested as a result of the Glaxo Wellcome and
Japan. In the UK the National Institute for Clinical Excellence issued
SmithKline Beecham merger were £428 million in 1999. The two
guidance discouraging the prescribing of Relenzaunder the
main products were Kytril, an anti-emetic to treat chemotherapy
National Health Service until more extensive data on the product
and radiotherapy induced nausea and vomiting and Famvir, an
became available.
anti-viral. Sales of Kytrilwere £222 million and sales of Famvir
Zeffix, for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, was launched in a were£132 million.
number of markets in 1999 including Europe and the USA. But the
principal markets for the product are in Asia Pacific where it was Pharmaceutical sales by geographic area
launched in Korea in May 1999 and in China and Taiwan later in
USA
the year.
Sales growth was fuelled by Paxil, Augmentin, Avandia, Flixotide,
Combivir, Ziagen, Coreg andFlonase. Sales benefited from the
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal
launch of new products, supported by higher direct-to-consumer
Sales of Zantacreduced by 19 per cent overall and by 35 per cent
advertising. Growth was affected by wholesaler buying patterns
in the USA. Although the rate of decline had slowed following the
in1998. Generic competition continued to affect Zantacand a
1997 patent expiries, generic competition continued to impact
number of older products. Productdisposals caused some year-on-
sales. Zantacwas only five per cent of Group sales in 1999 and
year loss of sales.
onlytwoper cent of sales in the USA.
In the Respiratory therapeutic area, sales growth was driven by
Sales of Avandiain 1999 were £89 million. During 1999 it was
increases of 44 per cent in Flixotide, reflecting the implementation
launched in 13 markets. An Avandiadirect-to-consumer campaign
of direct-to-consumer advertising campaigns, and 25 per cent
was launched in the USA in late September. The campaign directs
inFlonase. The HIV portfolio contributed sales growth of 31 per
patients to the World Wide Web for Avandiaand to a telephone
cent, with the launches of Ziagenand Ageneraseand with Combivir
number where they can receive information to help them manage
increasing market share in an expanding market.
their type 2 diabetes.
Avandiawas launched for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. The
Vaccines drug, which targets insulin resistance, received approval from the
Twinrix, the world’s first and only combined hepatitis A and B FDA for both monotherapy and in combination with metformin.
vaccine in both adult and paediatric strengths, was among the
leading performers with a sales increase of 49 per cent in 1999. Europe
Launched in over 30 countries worldwide, Twinrixis currently under Growth in the European region, representing 32 per cent of total
review by the US FDA. Overall sales of hepatitis vaccines were sales, was driven by the larger West Europe markets with significant
£480million, a decline of nine per cent. individual contributions from France, Italy, Germany and Spain.
Infanrix, the range of combination vaccines for diphtheria, tetanus
and pertussis (whooping cough), grew 26 per cent to £120 million
helped by the strong performance of Infanrixin the USA and
Infanrix Hep B, which provides additional protection against
hepatitis B, and Cinquerix, in Italy.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 65
Pharmaceutical sales by geographic area 1999 Consumer Healthcare sales
Region/ % of 1999 1998 % CER* Consumer Healthcare sales grew eight per cent to £2,546 million.
major markets total 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 £m £m growth
1999 1998
USA 46 6,276 5,635 9
£m £m
Europe 32 4,288 4,059 8 OTC medicines 1,434 1,328
France 6 774 726
Oral care 614 584
UK 5 715 730
Italy 4 563 515 Nutritional healthcare 488 459
Germany 4 507 492 Divested products 10 4
Spain 3 432 393
2,546 2,375
Central & 3 460 413
Eastern Europe
Other Europe 7 837 790
OTC medicines
Sales of OTC medicines increased by eightpercent. Growth in the
Rest of World 22 3,054 2,869 4
Asia Pacific 7 929 876 sales of smoking cessation products was driven by the launch of
Japan 5 704 592 Nicorette CQ/Nicabatein Europe and Australia. Analgesics sales
Latin America 5 636 662
increased two per cent. Panadolgrew eight per cent, fuelled by
Middle East, Africa 3 461 468
Canada 2 324 271 strong performances in Australia and the Middle East, offsetting a
decrease in sales of Solpadeine.
100 13,618 12,563 7
CER represents sales growth at constant exchange rates. Sterling growth can be calculated Oral care
*from the figures given above. Sales of oral care products reached £614 million, an increase
ofsixper cent. This performance was driven by strong sales of
Aquafreshinthe US and International markets, and Odoland
InFrance, the Group’s second largest individual market, the three
DrBestin Germany. Global sales of the Aquafreshline of
key franchises of respiratory, anti-virals and CNS contributed most
toothpastesand toothbrushes were £357 million, up nine per cent.
significantly to growth. In Italy, respiratory and anti-viral products
led the growth. In Spain, a strong performance in the respiratory
Nutritional healthcare
area from Sereventand Flixotidedrove the growth. In the UK,
The nutritional healthcare business also turned in a strong
growth was in part affected by paralleltrade.
performance in 1999. The drinks Horlicks, Lucozadeand Ribena
Across Europe as a whole CNS, respiratory, and anti-virals led the helped to advance sales to £488 million, an increase of seven
growth with strong performances from Seroxat/Paxil,Flixotide, percent.
Serevent,Seretide, Combivirand Requip. In Central and Eastern
Europe Poland showed strong growth in respiratory sales as the Healthcare Services sales
benefits of the acquisition of Polfa Poznan in January 1998
Healthcare Services principally comprised Diversified Pharmaceutical
continued to flow through.
Services, the pharmaceutical benefits management company,
whichwas sold on 1st April 1999, and Clinical Laboratories, which
Rest of World
wassold on 16th August 1999. Sales for Healthcare Services were
Strong performances in a number of markets, including Australia,
£632 million in 1999.
Canada and Mexico offset the effects of adverse economic
conditions in other markets. Across the region, growth was
Trading profit – business performance
particularly strong in the respiratory area, notably Flixotide, with
good growth in CNS, dermatologicals, and vaccines. In order to illustrate business performance, the analysis below of
trading profit, and the following discussion, exclude the
Sales grew in the Asia Pacific region, with significant contributions
manufacturing restructuring costs.
from the dermatologicals, respiratory and anti-viral therapy areas.
Australia and India were the Group’s most significant markets 1999 1998
£m £m
inthisregion. In Japan strong growth ofFlixotidewas offset by a
Sales 16,796 16,002
decline inZantac.
Cost of sales (3,499) (3,300)
A number of markets in the Latin America region experienced
Selling, general and administration (6,002) (5,375)
difficult economic conditions. Mexico and Brazil provided growth,
Research and development (2,285) (2,072)
while sales in most other markets declined. Strong growth was
Operating costs – retained businesses (11,786) (10,747)
achieved across the region for Combivir, with some offsetting effect
Operating costs – Healthcare Services (607) (988)
on sales of Epivirand Retrovir. In the Middle East, Africa area, good
Trading profit 4,403 4,267
performance was achieved inanumber of markets. In Egypt, the
acquisition of a local pharmaceutical company contributed to strong
growth. Cost of sales
Cost of sales, as a percentage of sales, increased to 20.8 per cent.
Sales in the Canadian market grew strongly, dominated by growth
This reflected the offset of the change in product mix with higher
in the respiratory franchise. A successful launch of Zybancaptured
cost, particularly of respiratory devices and the new HIV products
78per cent of the prescription smoking cessation market and
with increased sales of higher margin products, changing geographic
contributed over £9million to sales growth.
mix of sales and benefits generated by global supply initiatives.66 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Selling, general and administration The Group had a continuing investment in Affymetrix Inc. and
Selling, general and administrative expenditure increased to disposed of some of its shares at a gain of £39 million.
35.7percent of sales, reflecting a planned acceleration in marketing
As part consideration for the disposal of the Healthcare Services
investment to support new product launches, particularlyAvandia,
business, Clinical Laboratories, the Group acquired a 29.2 per cent
Seretide, Relenzaand Lotronex, and direct-to-consumer advertising
equity interest in Quest Diagnostics, Incorporated.
inthe USA. These expenses were partially offset by strict
managementof infrastructure costs.
Net interest payable
Net interest payable for 1999 was £162 million a decrease of
Research and development
£30million compared to 1998, reflecting a lower level of net
Research and development (R&D) expenditure increased to
borrowings due to cash inflows from the sales of the Healthcare
£2.3billion, 13.6 per cent of sales. The increase was partly due to
Services businesses and lower interest rates. The 1999 expense includes
moreproducts undergoing late-stage clinical trials including Avandia,
£7million relating to the Group’s share of Quest’s interest expense.
Arifloand Factiveas well as continued investment in drug discovery.
Pharmaceuticals R&D was £2,211 million and Consumer Healthcare
Restructuring costs and divested business
R&D was £74 million.
Manufacturing and other restructuring
Divested business – Healthcare Services The Group announced a restructuring of its manufacturing
Sales for the year were £632 million and trading profit £25 million. operations, with the objective of optimising capacity utilisation
Trading margin declined to four per cent due to higher managed andimproving factory-to-market lead times along the Group supply
care and billing costs and the costs associated with an incident at chain. Costs of £443 million were recognised in 1999.
the PaloAlto facility.
Divested business – Healthcare Services
Trading profit Healthcare Services businesses were divested during the year.
Trading profit increased two per cent, less than the increase in sales Diversified Pharmaceutical Services and Diversified Prescription
mainly due to the increase in selling, general and administration Delivery were sold to Express Scripts, Inc. Clinical Laboratories was
expenditure of 11 per cent. sold to Quest Diagnostics. Manufacturing and restructuring costs
in1999 include £30 million for restructuring Healthcare Services
Profit before taxation – business performance operations.
The analysis and discussion below of profit before taxation relates to
Taxation
business performance.
The taxation charge on business performance for the year was
Other operating income/(expense) 1999 1998 £1,327million. As a percentage of profit before taxation, this
£m £m represents a rate of taxation of 28.2 per cent compared to
Royalties and other income 387 257 29.2 per cent in 1998, reflecting lower tax rates in a number of
Other operating expense (138) (80) countries and a change in profit mix. After net tax credits in respect
249 177 of restructuring and disposal of subsidiaries the total taxation
Income from equity investments 164 44 charge for the year was £1,218 million.
413 221
Earnings 1999 1998
In 1999 the Group realised a profit of £113 million on disposal of £m £m
part of its shareholding in BioChem Pharma, Inc. The holding had Earnings 2,859 2,435
been acquired in 1990 when the Group first entered into its Earnings per Ordinary Share 46.7p 39.9p
researchcollaboration with BioChem, a collaboration which led to Earnings per ADS $1.51 $1.32
the successful development and marketing of Epivir, Combivirand
Adjusted earnings 3,222 2,947
Zeffix. The disposal represented a realisation of value earned by the
Adjusted earnings per Ordinary Share 52.7p 48.3p
Group from the collaboration. GlaxoSmithKline committed to
Adjusted earnings per ADS $1.71 $1.60
retaining its residual holding until 31st December 2000.
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 6,118 6,100
The Group disposed of a range of anaesthetic products in the USA
and some minor products in Europe. Adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share are presented
above in order to illustrate business performance of GlaxoSmithKline.
Additionally, the Group recognised the costs of termination or
Adjusted earnings per share increased eight per cent during the year.
re-arrangement of certain supply contracts, including costs arising
from the withdrawal of Raxar.
Joint ventures and associates
The Group reduced its interests in joint ventures. The Glaxo
Wellcome Warner-Lambert OTC joint venture had been dissolved in
December 1998 and the Healthmatics joint venture in the USA was
closed during 1999. The Group’s interest in an associated company
was being marketed for sale, giving rise to the charge to the profit
and loss account of goodwill previously written off to reserves, and
in another associated company the Group reduced its holding.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 67
Selected financial data UK/US GAAP
Profit and loss account 2000 1999 1998 1997 1996
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts in accordance with UK GAAP
Business performance – retained businesses
Sales 18,079 16,164 14,938 14,736 14,911
Operating profit 5,300 4,791 4,412 4,471 4,691
Profit before taxation 5,327 4,683 4,299 4,242 4,415
Earnings/Net income 3,697 3,204 2,891 2,835 2,938
Business performance: results exclude merger items and restructuring costs, and in 1999 and earlier years exclude Healthcare Services.
Total results
Sales 18,079 16,796 16,002 15,716 16,212
Operating profit 4,729 4,343 4,306 4,520 4,736
Profit before taxation 6,029 4,236 3,564 4,291 4,460
Earnings/Net income 4,154 2,859 2,435 2,884 2,983
Earnings per Ordinary Share 68.5p 46.7p 39.9p 47.7p 49.6p
Weighted average number of shares (million) 6,065 6,118 6,100 6,052 6,013
Dividends per GlaxoSmithKline ordinary share (p):
Glaxo Wellcome shareholder 38.0 37.0 36.0 35.0 34.0
SmithKline Beecham shareholder 29.66 26.69 24.02 21.85 19.61
Dividends per GlaxoSmithKline ADS ($):
Glaxo Wellcome shareholder 1.16 1.20 1.19 1.17 1.16
SmithKline Beecham shareholder 0.91 0.86 0.81 0.74 0.63
Dividends are expressed in terms of a GlaxoSmithKline share/ADS.
Amounts in accordance with US GAAP
Total results
Sales 9,559 8,490 7,983 7,980 8,341
(Loss)/income from operations (4,456) 1,634 1,816 1,951 2,099
(Loss)/profit before tax (4,399) 1,584 1,804 1,819 1,946
Net (loss)/income (5,228) 913 1,010 952 979
Balance sheet
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts in accordance with UK GAAP
Total assets 21,590 18,774 18,104 16,514 16,064
Net assets 8,955 6,607 5,562 4,570 3,505
Equity shareholders’ funds 7,711 5,464 4,449 3,468 2,470
Amounts in accordance with US GAAP
Total assets 65,140 13,901 14,035 13,831 14,623
Net assets 46,239 7,281 8,073 7,839 8,195
Shareholders’ equity 44,995 7,230 8,007 7,792 8,153
Exchange rates
As a guide to holders of ADRs, the following tables set out, for the periods indicated, information on the exchange rate of US dollars for
sterling as reported by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (‘noon buying rate’).
Average 1.51 1.61 1.66 1.64 1.57
The average rate for the year is calculated as the average of the noon buying rates on the last day of each month during the year.
Feb Jan Dec Nov Oct Sept
2001 2001 2000 2000 2000 2000
High 1.48 1.50 1.50 1.45 1.47 1.48
Low 1.44 1.46 1.44 1.40 1.43 1.40
The noon buying rate on 15th March 2001 was £1=US$1.44.68 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Results under US accounting principles 2000 and 1999
This review discusses the results of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the years There is no charge for amortisation in 2000 in respect of the
2000 and 1999 and the shareholders’ equity at 31st December acquired intangible assets and goodwill of SmithKline Beecham, as
2000 prepared under US accounting principles. for accounting purposes the effective date of acquisition is taken to
be 31st December 2000.
Merger of GlaxoWellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc
GlaxoSmithKline plc acquired Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Shareholders’ equity at 31st December 2000
Beecham plc by way of a Scheme of Arrangement for the merger of
2000 1999
the two companies which became effective on 27th December Changes in shareholders’ equity £m £m
2000. At beginning of year 7,230 8,007
Net (loss)/income (5,228) 913
Under UKGAAP the financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for
Shares issued on acquisition 43,919 –
the period to 31st December 2000 have been prepared as a merger
Share issues (share options) 121 104
of GlaxoWellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc. The results of
Treasury stock (218) (211)
Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc for the year to
Dividends (1,334) (1,305)
31st December 2000, and the balance sheets at 31st December
Other 505 (278)
2000, have been combined, with comparative figures prepared on a
similar basis for the years to 31st December 1999 and 31st At end of year 44,995 7,230
December 1998 and at 31st December 1999.
Shareholders’ equity at 31st December 2000 under UKGAAP in
Under USGAAP this business combination did not qualify for respect of GlaxoWellcome was £3,913 million.
pooling of interests accounting and therefore the financial
The acquisition of SmithKline Beecham on 27th December 2000,
statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the period to 31st December
financed by issuance of common stock at a premium to par,
2000 have been prepared as an acquisition of SmithKline Beecham
increased shareholders’ equity by £43.9 billion. The considerationis
plc by Glaxo Wellcome plc at 27th December 2000. The results of
represented by some £2.7 billion of assets at book value on a US
SmithKline Beecham for all periods prior to that date have not been
GAAP basis (£3.8 billion on a UKGAAPbasis), £34.9 billion fair value
consolidated. The net assets of SmithKline Beecham have been
adjustments, principally in respect of intangible assets and goodwill,
incorporated in the consolidated balance sheet of GlaxoSmithKline
and a value of £6.3 billion ascribed to in-process research and
plc at 31st December 2000 at their fair value.
development which has been written off in the income statement.
Results 2000 and 1999 The book values of both Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
net assets on a UKGAAP basis are adjusted for the normal UK/US
2000 1999 1998
Summary of results £m £m £m GAAP differences. The principal adjustments are: the unamortised
goodwill and intangible assets from Glaxo’s acquisition of Wellcome;
Sales 9,559 8,490 7,983
dividends on a paid rather than payable basis; the treatment of shares
Trading profit 2,348 2,162 2,546
held by the employee share ownership trusts as treasury stock.
Operating (loss)/profit (4,456) 1,634 1,816
(Loss)/profit before tax (4,399) 1,584 1,804
Net (loss)/income (5,228) 913 1,010 Prospects
Basic earnings per share (pence) (145.6) 25.2 28.1 Glaxo SmithKline has published expectations of future growth in
earnings per share, on a UKGAAPbasis, and excluding merger and
The results reflect the trading operations of Glaxo Wellcome alone,
restructuring items in 2001 and 2002. Refer to ‘Outlook’ (page 57).
with certain purchase acquisition accounting adjustments in 2000.
Glaxo SmithKline expects to incur costs, and to deliver expense
Sales of £9,559 million in 2000 represented an increase over 1999
savings and synergies, from the integration of Glaxo Wellcome and
of 10 per cent at constant exchange rates. Sales of £8,490 million
SmithKline Beecham operations in 2001 and beyond. Under UK
in 1999 represented an increase over 1998 of 5 per cent. This
GAAP these costs will be expensed. Under USGAAP certain of
demonstrates the accelerating trend of sales growth that Glaxo
these costs will be expensed and others will represent an
Wellcome expected to achieve, following a period of lower growth
adjustment to the value of the acquired goodwill.
in the aftermath of the Zantac and Zovirax patent expiries in 1997.
The acquired SmithKline Beecham intangible assets and goodwill
Trading profit increased at a lower rate of growth than sales in both
will be amortised over their estimated useful lives. In the case of
2000 and 1999, reflecting higher manufacturing costs of new
goodwill this is expected to be 20 years. In upcoming years the
products and investment in selling to support product launches.
expected additional annual charge related to the amortisation of
Trading profit is lower on a USGAAPbasis than a UK GAAPbasis,
intangibles and goodwill will be approximately £2.1 billion.
resulting primarily from a charge under FAS 123 for stock-based
compensation.
FAS 133
Operating (loss)/profit includes an annual charge for the GlaxoSmithKline intends to adopt FAS 133 ‘Accounting for
amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets arising from Glaxo’s Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities’ on 1st January 2001.
acquisition of Wellcome in 1995. These assets are recognised on the In order to determine the impact of adopting this USaccounting
balance sheet under USGAAP but not for UKGAAP. Additionally in standard, the Group has undertaken a review of its derivative
2000, a one-time charge of £6,324 million has been made to write instruments as well as its contracts and agreements which may
off the in-process research and development acquired on the contain possible embedded derivatives. Based on the results of this
acquisition of SmithKline Beecham. The effect of these charges is to review, the Group has determined that the impact of adopting FAS
produce in 2000 a loss before tax of £4,399 million and, after tax 133 will not have a material impact on the Group’s financial results
and minority interest, a net loss for the year of £5,228 million, or financial position, prepared under USGAAP. A further description
compared to a profit before tax of £1,584 million and net income of the requirements of FAS 133 is included in Note 37 to the
of £913 million in 1999. financial statements.GlaxoSmithKline 69
Financial statements
This section comprises the Directors’ statements, the auditors report
on the financial statements, the financial statements consisting of
the principal financial statements and supporting Notes, and
additional financial data.
70 Directors’ statements of responsibility
71 Report by the auditors
Financial statements:
72 Consolidated statement of profit and loss
72 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses
74 Consolidated statement of cash flow
76 Consolidated balance sheet
76 Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
77 Company balance sheet
78 Notes to the financial statements
1. Presentation of financial statements
2. Post balance sheet event
3. Accounting policies
4. New accounting policies and requirements
5. Exchange rates
6. Merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
7. Segment information
8. Merger items, restructuring costs and divested businesses
9. Other operating income/(expense)
10. Operating profit
11. Joint ventures and associated undertakings
12. Net interest payable
13. Taxation
14. Earnings per Ordinary Share
15. Dividends
16. Goodwill
17. Intangible assets
18. Tangible fixed assets
19. Fixed asset investments
20. Equity investments
21. Stocks
22. Debtors
23. Other creditors
24. Provisions for liabilities and charges
25. Contingent liabilities
26. Net debt
27. Commitments
28. Share capital and share premium account
29. Non-equity minority interest
30. Other reserves
31. Legal proceedings
32. Acquisitions and disposals
33. Employee share schemes
34. Financial instruments and related disclosures
35. Employee costs
36. Directors’ remuneration
37. Reconciliation to US accounting principles
136 Group companies
142 Principal financial statements in US$
144 Financial record, consisting of:
Quarterly trend
Five year record70 GlaxoSmithKline
Directors’ statements of responsibility
GlaxoSmithKline plc acquired Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Directors’ remuneration
Beecham plc by way of a scheme of arrangement for the merger
The Remuneration report (pages 37 to 46 of this report) describes
ofthe two companies that became effective on 27th December
the Board’s policy on directors’ remuneration that applies in
2000. Until that date Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
GlaxoSmithKline plc and sets out details of the remuneration
operated separately under the management of their respective
earned by the Directors of Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline
Boards of Directors.
Beecham plc in 2000 under the respective remuneration policies
The statements set out below are given by the Directors of ofthe Boards of the two companies.
GlaxoSmithKline plc in respect of GlaxoSmithKline plc from
For convenience, the Remuneration report includes other disclosable
27thDecember 2000 and having regard to the arrangements in
information relating to Directors and officers and their interests.
operation in GlaxoWellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc
uptothat date. Statutory disclosures in respect of the remuneration attributable
toDirectors of GlaxoSmithKline plc are set out in Note 36 to the
Directors’ statement of responsibility in relation financial statements.
tothefinancial statements
The Remuneration report complies with Section B of the Combined
The Directors are: Code.
• responsible for ensuring the maintenance of proper accounting
Going concern basis
records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial
position of the Group at any time and from which financial After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
statements can beprepared to comply with the Companies expectationthat the Group and company have adequate resources
Act1985 to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
• required by law to prepare financial statements for each financial Forthis reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis
period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of inpreparing the accounts.
the company and the Group as at the end of the financial period
and ofthe profit or loss for that period Internal control
• responsible also for ensuring the operation of systems of
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the
internalcontrol and for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the
assessment of risks and the internal control framework that
assets of the Group and for preventing and detecting fraud and
nowoperates in GlaxoSmithKline plc and has considered the
other irregularities.
effectiveness of the system of internal control in operation
The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2000, intheGroup for the period covered by the accounts.
comprising principal statements and supporting notes, are set out
inFinancial statements (pages 72 to 135 of this report). The Combined Code
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies, and up
consistently applied in the preparation of the financial statements, to27th December 2000 Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline
supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates Beecham plc applied, the principles of the Combined Code,
asnecessary; applicable accounting standards have been followed, asdescribed under Corporate governance (pages 29 to 36),
and the financial statements have been prepared on the going and,withtheexception of the Code provisions relating to:
concern basis.
• the appointment of a senior independent director, where the
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the financial company’s position is described under Board and Executive
statements are set out in the Report by the auditors (page 71 • directors’ service contracts, pensionable bonuses and
opposite). terminationcommitments, where the company’s position is
described in the Remuneration report.
The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2000
are included in the Annual Report 2000, which is published by the has complied with the provisions of the Combined Code.
company in hard-copy printed form and on the company’s website
As required by the London Stock Exchange, the auditors
on the internet. The Directors are responsible for the maintenance
haveconsidered the Directors’ statement of compliance in relation
and integrity of the Annual Report on the website in accordance
to those points of the Combined Code which are specified for
with UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of
theirreview.
financial statements. Access to the website is available from outside
the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
Annual Report
The Annual Report for the year ended 31st December 2000,
comprising the Report of the Directors, the financial statements and
additional information for investors, has been approved by the
Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by
Sir Richard Sykes, Chairman
22nd March 2001GlaxoSmithKline 71
Report by the auditors
To the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
We have audited the financial statements which comprise the profit United Kingdom Opinion
and loss account, statement of total recognised gains and losses, In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of
cash flow statement, balance sheet and the related notes, which the state of affairs of the company and the Group at 31st December
have been prepared under the historical cost convention and the 2000 and of the profit, total recognised gains and losses and cash
accounting policies set out in the statement of accounting policies. flow of the Group for the year then ended and have been properly
We have also examined the amounts disclosed relating to the prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom Companies
emoluments, share options and long-term incentives of the Act1985.
Directors which form part of the Remuneration report.
United States Opinion
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors In our opinion the financial statements present fairly, in all material
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group at
the financial statements in accordance with applicable United 31stDecember 2000 and 1999 and the results of its operations
Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement andits cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
of Directors’ responsibilities. 31st December 2000 in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United Kingdom.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom
Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board and the vary in certain significant respects from accounting principles
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority. generally accepted in the United States. The application of the latter
would have affected the determination of net income expressed
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial
insterling for each of the three years in the period ended
statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared
31stDecember 2000 and the determination of shareholders’ equity
inaccordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
also expressed in sterling at 31st December 2000 and 1999 to the
Wealso report to you if, in our opinion, the report of the Directors
extent summarised in Note 37 to the financial statements.
is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company
hasnot kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all
PricewaterhouseCoopers
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors’
London, England
remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
22nd March 2001
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of
anyapparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the
financial statements. The other information comprises only the
directors’ report, the joint statement by the Chairman and the
Chief Executive Officer, the operating and financial review and the
corporate governance statement.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the
company’s compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if
it does not. We are not required to consider whether the Board’s
statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to
form an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s or Group’s
corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards
issued by the United Kingdom Auditing Practices Board and
withAuditing Standards generally accepted in the United States.
Anaudit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant
to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. It also
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements
made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate
to the company’s circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the financial statements are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of
the presentation of information in the financial statements.72 GlaxoSmithKline Consolidated statement of profit and lossGlaxoSmithKline 73
Consolidated statement of profit and loss
2000 1999 1998
Merger, Business performance Business performance
restructuring Restructuring Restructuring
Business and disposal Retained Divested and disposal Retained Divested and disposal
performance of subsidiaries Total businesses business Total of subsidiaries Total businesses business Total of subsidiaries Total
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 7 18,079 – 18,079 16,164 632 16,796 – 16,796 14,938 1,064 16,002 – 16,002
Cost of sales (3,811) (151) (3,962) (3,499) (436) (3,935) (399) (4,334) (3,300) (622) (3,922) (46) (3,968)
Gross profit 14,268 (151) 14,117 12,665 196 12,861 (399) 12,462 11,638 442 12,080 (46) 12,034
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (6,732) (404) (7,136) (6,002) (170) (6,172) (74) (6,246) (5,375) (365) (5,740) (136) (5,876)
Research and development expenditure (2,510) (16) (2,526) (2,285) (1) (2,286) – (2,286) (2,072) (1) (2,073) – (2,073)
Trading profit 5,026 (571) 4,455 4,378 25 4,403 (473) 3,930 4,191 76 4,267 (182) 4,085
Other operating income/(expense) 9 274 – 274 413 – 413 – 413 221 – 221 – 221
Operating profit 8,10 5,300 (571) 4,729 4,791 25 4,816 (473) 4,343 4,412 76 4,488 (182) 4,306
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 8,11 65 (8) 57 15 – 15 (8) 7 22 – 22 – 22
Profit on disposal of interest in associate 32 144 – 144 39 – 39 – 39 – – – – –
Profit on dissolution of joint venture – – – – – – – – 57 – 57 – 57
Product divestments 8 – 1,416 1,416 – – – – – – – – – –
Merger transaction costs 8 – (121) (121) – – – – – – – – – –
Disposal of businesses:
Provision for loss on disposal – – – – – – – – – – – (629) (629)
Loss on disposal 8 – (14) (14) – – – (635) (635) – – – – –
Utilisation of provision 8 – – – – – – 644 644 – – – – –
Profit before interest 5,509 702 6,211 4,845 25 4,870 (472) 4,398 4,491 76 4,567 (811) 3,756
Net interest payable 12 (182) – (182) (162) – (162) – (162) (192) – (192) – (192)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 5,327 702 6,029 4,683 25 4,708 (472) 4,236 4,299 76 4,375 (811) 3,564
Taxation 8,13 (1,454) (245) (1,699) (1,320) (7) (1,327) 109 (1,218) (1,256) (20) (1,276) 299 (977)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 3,873 457 4,330 3,363 18 3,381 (363) 3,018 3,043 56 3,099 (512) 2,587
Minority interests (120) – (120) (110) – (110) – (110) (102) – (102) – (102)
Preference share dividends (56) – (56) (49) – (49) – (49) (50) – (50) – (50)
Earnings (Profit attributable to shareholders) 14 3,697 457 4,154 3,204 18 3,222 (363) 2,859 2,891 56 2,947 (512) 2,435
Earnings per Ordinary Share 14 – 68.5p – 46.7p – 39.9p
Adjusted earnings per Ordinary Share 14 61.0p – 52.7p – 48.3p –
Diluted earnings per Ordinary Share 14 – 67.7p – 46.3p – 39.4p
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,154 2,859 2,435
Dividends 15 (2,097) (2,005) (1,903)
Retained profit 2,057 854 532
All items dealt with in arriving at operating profit relate to continuing activities. There is no difference between the profit on ordinary activities
before taxation and the retained profit stated above and their historical cost equivalents.
Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses
2000 1999 1998
£m £m £m
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,154 2,859 2,435
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (23) (272) 4
UK tax on exchange movements 16 (44) 24
Total recognised gains and losses 4,147 2,543 2,46374 GlaxoSmithKline
Consolidated statement of cash flow
Reconciliation of operating profit to operating cash flows 2000 1999 1998
Notes £m £m £m
Business performance operating profit 5,300 4,816 4,488
Depreciation 735 650 608
Impairment (excluding restructuring) 75 12 11
Amortisation of goodwill and intangible fixed assets 38 55 93
Loss on sale of tangible fixed assets 38 8 8
Income from equity investments (225) (171) (48)
Increase in stocks (17) (408) (400)
Increase in trade and other debtors (333) (271) (388)
Increase in trade and other creditors 389 153 9
(Decrease)/increase in pension and other provisions (60) 152 32
Other (40) (5) 10
Net cash inflow from business performance operating activities 5,900 4,991 4,423
Manufacturing restructuring costs paid (159) (131) (78)
Integration provision movement – – (15)
Integration costs paid (203) (44) (95)
Merger transaction costs (97) – –
Net cash inflow from operating activities 5,441 4,816 4,235
Cash flow statement
Net cash inflow from operating activities 5,441 4,816 4,235
Earnings from joint ventures and associated undertakings 1 2 40
Returns on investment and servicing of finance (322) (315) (327)
Taxation paid (1,240) (1,095) (1,043)
Capital expenditure and financial investment (327) (2,241) (1,206)
Acquisitions and disposals 32 66 973 (172)
Equity dividends paid (2,028) (1,833) (1,817)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) before management of liquid resources and financing 1,591 307 (290)
Management of liquid resources (223) (36) (178)
Financing (546) (175) 257
Increase/(decrease) in cash in the year 822 96 (211)
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
Net debt at beginning of year (2,357) (2,717) (2,830)
Increase/(decrease) in cash in the year 822 96 (211)
Cash inflow from management of liquid resources 223 36 178
Net (increase in)/repayment of long-term loans (9) (114) 94
Net repayment of short-term loans 706 456 21
Net (increase in)/repayment of obligations under finance leases (13) 5 4
Net non-cash funds of subsidiary undertakings acquired – – 1
Exchange adjustments 24 (113) (44)
Other non-cash movements (7) (6) 70
Movement in net debt 1,746 360 113
Net debt at end of year 26 (611) (2,357) (2,717)Consolidated statement of cash flowGlaxoSmithKline 75
Analysis of cash flows 2000 1999 1998
£m £m £m
Returns on investment and servicing of finance
Interest received 157 139 146
Interest paid (328) (291) (338)
Dividends paid to minority shareholders (95) (113) (85)
Dividends paid on preference shares (56) (50) (50)
(322) (315) (327)
Taxation paid (1,240) (1,095) (1,043)
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (1,007) (1,139) (1,032)
Sale of tangible fixed assets (including integration) 46 116 83
Purchase of intangible assets (96) (106) (91)
Sale of intangible assets – 1 8
Proceeds from product divestments 1,529 – –
Purchase of own shares (1,232) (1,291) (277)
Proceeds from own shares for staff options 206 45 124
Purchase of equity investments (62) (37) (102)
Sale of equity investments 289 170 81
(327) (2,241) (1,206)
Acquisitions and disposals(Note 32)
Purchase of businesses (25) (67) (174)
Disposal of businesses (62) 1,002 20
Investment in joint ventures and associated undertakings (2) (3) (18)
Disposal of interest in associate 155 41 –
66 973 (172)
Financing
Issue of Ordinary Share capital 185 171 361
Other financing cash flows (47) 1 15
Increase in long-term loans 12 123 5
Repayment of long-term loans (3) (9) (99)
Net repayment of short-term loans (706) (456) (21)
Net increase in/(repayment of) obligations under finance leases 13 (5) (4)
(546) (175) 257
Analysis of changes in net debt At 31.12.00 Cash flow Exchange Other At 1.1.00
£m £m £m £m £m
Cash repayable on demand 1,275 706 24 – 545
Overdrafts (191) 116 (6) – (301)
1,084 822 18 – 244
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper (1,599) (468) (32) (5) (1,094)
Other (491) 1,173 (35) (205) (1,424)
(2,090) 705 (67) (210) (2,518)
Debt due after one year:
Euro Bonds and Euro notes (1,644) (12) (32) 200 (1,800)
Other (107) (9) (5) 4 (97)
(1,751) (21) (37) 204 (1,897)
Management of liquid resources
Cash balances not repayable on demand 8 (27) 1 – 34
Liquid investments 2,138 250 109 (1) 1,780
2,146 223 110 (1) 1,814
Net debt (611) 1,729 24 (7) (2,357)76 GlaxoSmithKline
Consolidated balance sheet
2000 1999
Notes £m £m
Goodwill 16 170 160
Intangible assets 17 966 926
Tangible assets 18 6,642 6,402
Investments 19 2,544 1,804
Fixed assets 10,322 9,292
Equity investments 20 171 52
Stocks 21 2,277 2,243
Debtors 22 5,399 4,828
Liquid investments 26 2,138 1,780
Cash at bank 26 1,283 579
Current assets 11,268 9,482
Loans and overdrafts 26 (2,281) (2,819)
Other creditors 23 (6,803) (5,629)
Creditors: amounts due within one year (9,084) (8,448)
Net current assets 2,184 1,034
Total assets less current liabilities 12,506 10,326
Loans 26 (1,751) (1,897)
Other creditors 23 (143) (147)
Creditors: amounts due after one year (1,894) (2,044)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 24 (1,657) (1,675)
Net assets 8,955 6,607
Called up share capital 28 1,556 1,549
Share premium account 28 30 –
Other reserves 30 6,125 3,915
Equity shareholders’ funds 7,711 5,464
Non-equity minority interest 29 1,039 961
Equity minority interests 205 182
Capital employed 8,955 6,607
Approved by the Board
Sir Richard Sykes, Chairman
22nd March 2001
Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
2000 1999
Notes £m £m
Equity shareholders’ funds at beginning of year 5,464 4,449
Total recognised gains and losses for the year 4,147 2,543
Dividends 15 (2,097) (2,005)
Ordinary Shares issued 185 171
Exchange movements on goodwill written off to reserves 10 (29)
Goodwill written off to profit and loss account 2 335
Equity shareholders’ funds at end of year 7,711 5,464GlaxoSmithKline 77
Company balance sheet
2000
Notes £m
Shares in subsidiary companies – at cost 6 1,556
Cash at bank 30
Net assets 1,586
Called up share capital 28 1,556
Share premium account 28 30
Equity shareholders’ funds 1,586
The company was incorporated on 6th December 1999 and its first accounting period is from that date until 31st December 2000.
The profit for this period was £nil.
The company acquired Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc on 27th December 2000 and is now the holding company for the
GlaxoSmithKline Group. The company expects to receive dividends from its subsidiary companies in 2001 in order to pay dividends to
shareholders.
Approved by the Board
Sir Richard Sykes, Chairman
22nd March 200178 GlaxoSmithKline
Notes to the financial statements
1 Presentation of financial statements Merger of GlaxoWellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc
GlaxoSmithKline plc acquired Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline
Description of business
Beecham plc by way of a scheme of arrangement for the merger of
GlaxoSmithKline is a major global healthcare group which is
the two companies which became effective on 27th December 2000.
engaged in the creation and discovery, development, manufacture
and marketing of pharmaceutical products, vaccines, over-the- Under UKGAAP the financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
counter (OTC) medicines and health-related consumer products. forthe period to 31st December 2000 have been prepared as a
GlaxoSmithKline’s principal pharmaceutical products include merger of GlaxoWellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc. The
medicines in the following therapeutic areas: central nervous system results of Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc are
disorders, respiratory, anti-bacterials, anti-virals, metabolic and included for the year to 31st December 2000, with comparative
gastro-intestinal, vaccines, oncology and emesis, cardiovascular, figures on a similar basis for the years to 31st December 1999
arthritis and dermatologicals. and31st December 1998.
Under US GAAP the financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
Financial period
forthe period to 31st December 2000 have been prepared as an
These accounts cover the financial year from 1st January to
acquisition of SmithKline Beecham plc by Glaxo Wellcome plc at
31stDecember 2000, with comparative figures for the financial
27th December 2000. Accordingly the results of SmithKline
years from 1st January to 31st December 1999 and 1st January
Beecham for all periods prior to that date are not consolidated.
to31st December 1998.
Presentation of statement of profit and loss
Composition of the Group
A columnar presentation has been adopted in the statement of
A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings which, in
profit and loss in order to illustrate underlying business performance.
the opinion of the Directors, principally affected the amount of
For this purpose certain items are identified separately and are
profit or the net assets of the Group is given in Group companies
excluded from business performance. These comprise: merger
(pages 136 to 141).
items, including product divestments; costs relating to previously
announced manufacturing and other restructurings; theeffect of
Composition of financial statements
business disposals in prior years.
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in accordance
with UK generally accepted accounting principles (UKGAAP) and Trading profit reflects sales less:cost of sales, comprising costs
with UK accounting presentation. ofmanufacture and external royalties; selling, general and
administrative expenditure, comprising the costs of selling and
The financial statements comprise:
medical support of currently marketed products and the costs of
• Consolidated statement of profit and loss administration; the costs of research and development to create
• Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses future products for sale.
• Consolidated statement of cash flow
• Consolidated balance sheet Accounting convention
• Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds The financial statements have been prepared using the historical
• Company balance sheet cost convention.
• Notes to the financial statements.
Accounting standards
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the
The financial statements comply with all applicable UK accounting
profitand loss account of the company is not presented.
standards.
The statement of total recognised gains and losses comprises:
Accounting principles and policies
• the realised profit attributable to shareholders as reflected in
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
theconsolidated profit and loss account
accepted accounting principles requires management to make
• the unrealised gain or loss in the value of the company’s
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
overseas net assets, less related foreign currency borrowings,
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
attributable to currency movements over the period.
liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of
The reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results
comprises the items contributing to the increase or decrease over could differ from those estimates.
the period in shareholders’ funds. Such items include:
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the
• the total recognised gains and losses for the period company’s accounting policies described in Note 3. The company
• dividends paid and proposed has implemented two new Financial Reporting Standards as
• the proceeds of shares issued during the period described inNote 4.
• changes to goodwill, arising on acquisitions prior to 1st January
1998, which has been set directly against reserves. 2 Post balance sheet event
Additional information in accordance with the requirements of On 18th January 2001 GlaxoSmithKline completed the acquisition
USgenerally accepted accounting principles (US GAAP) is included of Block Drug Company Inc., a manufacturer of toothpaste and
in the notes to the financial statements. In Note 37 a statement of other oral healthcare and consumer products, for US$1,240 million
differences, and a reconciliation of net income and shareholders’ (£832 million) paid in cash. Block Drug will be consolidated in
equity, between UK and US GAAP are provided, and the principal thefinancial statements of GlaxoSmithKline from that date. The
financial statements are presented in accordance with US GAAP acquisition will add to the scale of GlaxoSmithKline’s Consumer
andin a USGAAP format. Healthcare business, providing additional annual sales of
£600million, and is expected to enhance earnings per share.Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 79
3 Accounting policies Foreign currency transactions
Foreign currency transactions by Group companies are booked
Consolidation
inlocal currency at the exchange rate ruling on the date of
The consolidated accounts include:
transaction, or at the forward rate if hedged by a forward
• the assets and liabilities, and the results and cashflow, of the exchangecontract. Foreign currency assets and liabilities are
company and its subsidiary undertakings, including employee translated into local currency at rates of exchange ruling at the
share ownership trusts (ESOTs) balance sheet date, or at the forward rate. Exchange differences
• the Group’s share of the net assets and results of joint ventures areincluded in trading profit.
and associated undertakings.
Revenue
The accounts of undertakings consolidated are made up to
Revenue is recognised in the profit and loss account when goods
31st December.
or services are supplied to external customers against orders
Undertakings in which the Group has a material interest are received. Turnover represents the net invoice value, after the
accounted for as subsidiaries where the Group exercises dominant deduction of standard discounts given at the point of sale, of
influence, as joint ventures where the Group exercises joint control products despatched to, or available for collection by, customers,
and as associates where the Group can exercise significant less accruals for estimated future rebates and returns. Value
influence. ESOTs are accounted for as subsidiaries on the grounds added tax and other sales taxes are excluded from revenue.
that the Group has de facto control.
Expenditure
Interests acquired in undertakings are consolidated from the
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services
effective date of acquisition and interests sold are consolidated
received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
upto the date of disposal.
Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability in
Transactions and balances between subsidiary undertakings are respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation
eliminated; no profit is taken on sales between subsidiary can be reliably estimated. Restructuring costs are recognised in
undertakings or sales to joint ventures and associated undertakings respect of the direct expenditures of a business reorganisation
until the products are sold to customers outside the Group. where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well advanced, and
where appropriate communication to those affected has been
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of interestsin subsidiary
undertaken at the balance sheet date.
undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings,
representing the excess of the purchase consideration over the
Research and development
Group’s share of the separable net assets acquired, is capitalised
Research and development expenditure is charged to the profit
asa separate item in the case of subsidiary undertakings and as
and loss account in the period in which it is incurred. Tangible
part of the cost of investment in the case of joint ventures and
fixed assets used for research and development are depreciated
associated undertakings. Goodwill is denominated in the currency
in accordance with the Group’s policy.
inwhich the acquisition is made and financed. In the case of
acquisitions prior to 1998, goodwill was written off against
Environmental expenditure
reserves; on a subsequent disposal of assets from such acquisitions,
Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting
any related goodwill is removed from consolidated reserves and
from past or current operations and from which no current or
charged to the consolidated profit and lossaccount.
future benefit is discernible is charged to the profit and loss
The Group’s interests in its joint ventures are accounted for using account. The Group determines its liability on a site-by-site basis
thegross equity method. The Group’s interests in its associated and records a liability at the time when it is probable and can be
undertakings are accounted for using the equity method. reasonably estimated. This liability includes the Group’s own
portion of the costs and also the Group’s portion of other
Deferred taxation relief on unrealised intra-Group profit is
potentially responsible parties when it is probable that they will
accounted for only to the extent that the related taxation effect
not be able to satisfy their respective share of the clean-up
isexpected to reverse.
obligation. When recoveries of reimbursements are virtually
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary, joint venture and certain they are recorded as an asset.
associated undertakings, including related goodwill, are translated
into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Pensions and post-retirement benefits
The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiary, joint venture and The cost of providing pensions and other employee post-
associated undertakings are translated into sterling using average retirement benefits is charged to the consolidated profit and loss
rates of exchange. Exchange adjustments arising when the opening account on a systematic and rational basis, based on actuarial
net assets and the profits for theyear retained by overseas assumptions, over the period during which benefit is derived from
subsidiary, joint venture and associated undertakings are translated employees’ services. Any difference between this charge and the
into sterling, less exchange differences arising on related foreign contributions paid is included as an asset or liability in the
currency borrowings, are taken directly to reserves and reported in consolidated balance sheet.
the statement of total recognised gains andlosses.
In translating into sterling assets, liabilities, results and cash flows
ofoverseas subsidiary, joint venture and associated undertakings
reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies, adjustments
aremade to reflect current price levels. Any loss on net monetary
assetsis charged to the consolidated profit and loss account.80 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
3 Accounting policiescontinued Depreciationis calculated to write off the cost of tangible fixed
assets, excluding freehold land, in equal annual instalments over
Employee share plans
their expected useful lives. The normal expected useful lives of the
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under
major categories of tangible fixed assets are:
share option and share award schemes. In respect of award
schemes and certain share option grants, the company provides
Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years
finance to employee share ownership trusts to purchase company
Leasehold land and buildingsThe shorter of lease term and 50 years
shares on the open market to meet the company’s obligation to
Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years
provide shares when employees exercise their option or award;
Fixtures and equipment 3 to 10 years
thedifference between the purchase price of the shares and the
Computer software 3 to 5 years
exercise price of the options and awards is charged, or credited, to
the profit and loss account over the periods of service in respect of Ondisposal of a tangible fixed asset, the cost and related
which the options and awards are granted. In respect of other share accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and the
option grants, share options when exercised are accounted for as net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to the consolidated profit
share issues at exercise price. Additional employer costs in respect and loss account.
of options and awards are charged to the profit and loss account
over the periods of service. Investments in joint ventures and associates
Investments in joint ventures and associated undertakings are
Costs of running employee share ownership trusts are charged to
carried in the consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share
the profit and loss account.
oftheir net assets at date of acquisition and of their post-
Shares held by employee share ownership trusts are accounted for acquisition retained profits or losses together with any goodwill
as fixed asset investments at cost less accrual for costs charged. arising on the acquisition, net of amortisation.
Goodwill Impairment of fixed assets
Goodwill is stated at cost less a provision for amortisation. The carrying values of fixed assets are reviewed for impairment
Amortisation is calculated to write off the cost in equal annual when there is an indication that the assets might be impaired.
instalments over its expected useful life. The normal expected useful Firstyear impairment reviews are conducted for acquired goodwill
life is not expected to exceed 20 years. and intangible assets. Certain intangibles are considered to have
anindefinite life and are therefore not amortised. Such intangibles
Intangible fixed assets are subject to annual impairment tests. Impairment is determined
Intangible assets are stated at cost less a provision for amortisation. byreference to the higher of net realisable value and value in use,
which is measured by reference to discounted future cash flows.
Acquired licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights are
Any provision for impairment is charged against profit in the
amortised over their estimated useful lives in equal instalments, but
yearconcerned.
no longer than 20 years. Items capitalised are restricted to those
related to specific compounds or products which are being
Stocks
developed for commercial applications. The estimated useful lives
Stocksare included in the accounts at the lower of cost (including
for determining the amortisation charge are reviewed annually,
manufacturing overheads, where appropriate) and net realisable
andtake into account the estimated time it takes to bring the
value. Cost is generally determined on a first in, first out basis.
compounds or products to market as marketable products.
Anydevelopment costs which are incurred by the Group and
Leases
areassociated with an acquired licence, patent, know-how or
Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially all the
marketing rights are written off to the profit and loss account
benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as finance
whenincurred.
leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright. The assets are
Brands are valued independently as part of the fair value of included intangible fixed assets and the capital element of the
businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a value leasing commitments is shown as obligations under finance leases.
which is substantial and long-term and where the brands can be Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter
sold separately from the rest of the businesses acquired. Brands ofthe lease terms and the useful lives of the assets. The interest
areamortised over the estimated useful lives but no longer than element of the lease rental is charged against profit.
20years, except where the end of the useful economic life of the
All other leases are operating leases and the annual rentals are
brand cannot be forseen.
charged against profit on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Prior to 1998, acquired minor brands and similar intangibles were
eliminated in the Group balance sheet against reserves in the year Taxation
of acquisition. Deferred taxation, calculated using the liability method, is
accounted for by each Group company for taxation deferred or
Tangible fixed assets accelerated by reason of timing differences. Deferred taxation relief
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less a provision for is accounted for in full onlong-term timing differences in respect
depreciation. ofprovisions for unfunded retirement benefits. Taxation deferred
oraccelerated by reason of short-term and other timing differences
The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for
is accounted for to the extent that it is probable that a liability or
internal use and internet sites for external use are capitalised as a
asset will crystallise.
tangible fixed asset where the software or site supports a significant
business system and the expenditure leads to the creation of a
durable asset.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 81
3 Accounting policiescontinued 4 New accounting policies and requirements
Current asset investments The company has implemented Financial Reporting Standard 15:
Current asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and net ‘Tangible fixed assets’ and Financial Reporting Standard 16: ‘Current
realisable value. tax’. Both FRSs update, and provide additional guidance on, existing
accounting practice. Neither FRS has had a significant effect on the
In the case of securities acquired at a significant premium or
measurement or classification of assets or liabilities. FRS 15 permits,
discount to maturity value, and intended to be held to redemption,
but does not require, the revaluation of properties and the
cost is adjusted to amortise the premium or discount over the life
capitalisation of interest or capital projects in progress. The company
tomaturity of the security. Floating rate bonds are stated at cost.
has adopted a policy of not revaluing properties and not capitalising
Interest income is taken to the consolidated profit and loss account
interest.
on a receivable basis.
The company will be required to implement in 2001 Financial
Equity investments are included as current assets when regarded
Reporting Standard 18: ‘Accounting policies’. The FRS updates an
asavailable for sale.
existing standard and provides new guidance. It is not expected to
have a significant effect on measurement of the results and assets
Debt instruments
and liabilities of the company.
Debt instruments are stated at the amount of net proceeds
adjustedto amortise the finance cost of debt evenly over the term FRS 17: ‘Retirement benefits’ falls to be implemented by the
of the debt. company in 2001 and 2002 in terms of disclosures and in 2003
interms of measurement. The FRS adopts a market value approach
Derivative financial instruments to the measurement of retirement benefits and requires expanded
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments disclosures.
for trading purposes.
FRS 19: ‘Deferred tax’ falls to be implemented by the company in
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to 2002. The FRS requires deferred tax to be accounted for on a full
market risks from treasury operations. The principal derivative provision basis, rather than a partial provision basis as at present.
instruments are currency swaps, forward exchange contracts and At 31st December 2000 the effect of the full provision basis would
interest rate swaps. The derivative contracts are treated from be to reduce the deferred tax asset by approximately £121 million.
inception as an economic hedge of the underlying financial
instrument, with matching accounting treatment and cash flows. 5 Exchange rates
The derivative contracts have high correlation with the specific
The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during the
financial instrument being hedged both at inception and
period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas Group
throughout the hedge period. Derivative instruments no longer
subsidiary, joint venture and associated undertakings into sterling
designated as hedges are restated at market value and any changes
and period end rates to translate the net assets of those
in value are taken directly to the profit and loss account.
undertakings. Thecurrencies which most influence these
Currency swaps and forward exchange contracts used to fix the translations, and the relevant exchange rates, were:
value of the related asset or liability in the contract currency and at
the contract rate are accrued to the profit and loss account over the 2000 1999 1998
life of the contract. Gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts Average rates:
designated as hedges of forecast foreign exchange transactions are £/US$ 1.52 1.62 1.66
deferred and included in the measurement of the related foreign £/Euro 1.64 1.52
currency transactions in the period they occur. Gains and losses on £/Yen 163.46 184.05 216.67
balance sheet hedges are accrued and are taken directly to reserves, Period end rates:
except that forward premium/discounts are recognised as interest £/US$ 1.49 1.61 1.66
over the life of the contracts. £/Euro 1.61 1.61 1.42
£/Yen 171.00 164.97 187.67
Interest differentials under interest swap agreements are recognised
in the consolidated profit and loss account by adjustment ofinterest
expense over the life of the agreement.82 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
6 Merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham Each of GlaxoSmithKline plc, Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline
Beecham plc has an accounting reference date of 31st December.
Terms of the merger
Inview of the proximity of the merger date to the financial year-end
GlaxoSmithKline plc was formed to give effect to a scheme of
date, and the relative insignificance of any business activity between
arrangement for the merger of Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline
27th December 2000 and 31st December 2000, the accounting
Beecham plc. The scheme of arrangement became effective on
date of the merger has for practical purposes been taken as
27thDecember 2000, at which point GlaxoSmithKline plc acquired
31stDecember 2000. The whole of the profit for the financial year
the whole of the issued share capital of Glaxo Wellcome plc and
2000 of each of Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc
SmithKline Beecham plc in exchange for shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc.
isdeemed to relate to the period prior to the merger date.
The terms agreed for the proposed merger, reflecting the relative
stock market valuation of the two companies in the months Accounting alignment
preceding the announcement of the merger on 17thJanuary 2000, Certain adjustments have been made, and reflected in the results of
envisaged that shareholders of Glaxo Wellcome plc would hold GlaxoSmithKline, to align the accounting policies and classifications
approximately 58.75 per cent and shareholders of SmithKline previously adopted by Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham,
Beecham plc would hold approximately 41.25 per cent of the issued asfollows:
ordinary share capital of GlaxoSmithKline plc. Based on the number
Accounting policy:
of shares of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham in issue at
(A)Interest on finance for major construction projects, previously
31st December 1999, this had the effect that shareholders of Glaxo
capitalised by SmithKline Beecham, is now expensed
Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc would receive shares in
(B)Deferred tax relief on unfunded post-retirement benefits,
GlaxoSmithKline plc as follows:
previously recognised by SmithKline Beecham only on post-
for each Glaxo Wellcome share – 1 GlaxoSmithKline share retirement healthcare is now recognised additionally on
for each SmithKline Beecham share – 0.4552 GlaxoSmithKline unfunded pension costs.
shares
Accounting presentation:
In the case of shares held as American Depository Shares (ADSs) (C)Standard sales discounts in the USA, previously classified by
evidenced by American Depository Receipts (ADRs), each Glaxo SmithKline Beecham to selling, general and administrative
Wellcome ADS represented two Glaxo Wellcome shares, each expenditure, are now reclassified as a deduction from sales
SmithKline Beecham ADS represented five SmithKline Beecham (D)Royalty and similar recurring income, and significant one-off
shares and each GlaxoSmithKline ADS now represents two items of operating income/expense, previously classified by
GlaxoSmithKline shares. Accordingly holders of Glaxo Wellcome SmithKline Beecham to selling, general and administrative
ADRs and holders of SmithKline Beecham ADRs receive: expenditure, are now classified to other operating
income/expense.
for each Glaxo Wellcome ADS – 1 GlaxoSmithKline ADS
for each SmithKline Beecham ADS – 1.138 GlaxoSmithKline ADSs Balance sheet reclassification:
(E)Certain items have been reclassified for consistency.
On the merger date GlaxoSmithKline plc issued 6,222,462,894
ordinary shares of 25p each at par to acquire 3,653,435,656 Investment reclassification:
ordinary shares of 25p each of Glaxo Wellcome plc and (F)Certain equity investments held by SmithKline Beecham have
5,643,732,950 ordinary shares of 6.25p each of SmithKline been reclassified in 2000 from fixed assets to current assets and
Beecham plc. The nominal value of the shares issued was written down to current market value, to reflect the fact that
£1,556million and the market value of the shares at that GlaxoSmithKline now considers these investments to be available
datewas£119billion. for sale.
Consolidation adjustment:
Accounting for the merger
(G)Royalties paid by Glaxo Wellcome to SmithKline Beecham have
Reflecting the intentions, and the respective sizes of the merging
been eliminated on consolidation.
parties, the combination of Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline
Beecham plc has been treated as a merger at 27th December 2000 Segment reclassification:
under UK GAAP. Glaxo Wellcome’s over-the-counter products are being managed
inGlaxoSmithKline by Consumer Healthcare. The sales and
Under merger accounting, the shares issued by GlaxoSmithKline plc
profitsof these products have been classified to the Consumer
to acquire Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham are accounted
Healthcaresector.
for at par and no share premium arises; the shares acquired by
GlaxoSmithKline in Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham are The adjustments have been made for all years presented, with
similarly accounted for at the nominal value of the shares issued. theexception of the investment reclassification, which has been
Inthe consolidated accounts of GlaxoSmithKline, the results and made from the date of the merger. Only the accounting policy
netassets of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham are adjustments and the investment reclassification affect the book
combined, at their book amounts, subject to the alignment value of net assets. The adjustments are identified by the relevant
adjustments discussed below. letter in the following tables of balance sheet and profit and
lossaccount.Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 83
6 Merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham continued
Glaxo-
Consolidated balance sheet SmithKline Adjustments SmithKline Consolidation Glaxo-
Glaxo Wellcome Beecham plc elimination SmithKline
as at 31st December 2000 £m £m £m key £m £m £m
Goodwill 154 16 – – – 170
Intangible assets 4 962 – – – 966
Tangible assets 3,664 3,068 (90) A – – 6,642
Investments 872 1,987 (315) E 1,556 (1,556) 2,544
Fixed assets 4,694 6,033 (405) 1,556 (1,556) 10,322
Equity investments 103 83 (15) F – – 171
Stocks 1,556 721 – – – 2,277
Debtors 2,975 2,544 (120) B,E – – 5,399
Liquid investments 2,065 73 – – – 2,138
Cash at bank 166 1,087 – 30 – 1,283
Current assets 6,865 4,508 (135) 30 – 11,268
Loans and overdrafts (1,995) (286) – – – (2,281)
Other creditors (3,621) (3,249) 67 E – – (6,803)
Creditors: amounts due within one year (5,616) (3,535) 67 – – (9,084)
Net current assets 1,249 973 (68) 30 – 2,184
Total assets less current liabilities 5,943 7,006 (473) 1,586 (1,556) 12,506
Loans (1,287) (464) – – – (1,751)
Other creditors (95) (48) – – – (143)
Creditors: amounts due after one year (1,382) (512) – – – (1,894)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (616) (1,490) 449 E – – (1,657)
Net assets 3,945 5,004 (24) 1,586 (1,556) 8,955
Called up share capital 913 353 – 1,556 (1,266) 1,556
Share premium account 1,337 514 – 30 (1,851) 30
Other reserves 1,633 2,955 (24) A,B,F – 1,561 6,125
Equity shareholders’ funds 3,883 3,822 (24) 1,586 (1,556) 7,711
Non-equity minority interest – 1,039 – – – 1,039
Equity minority interests 62 143 – – – 205
Capital employed 3,945 5,004 (24) 1,586 (1,556) 8,955
Key: A – Interest previously capitalised; B – Deferred tax; E – Reclassifications; F – Investment reclassification84 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 85
6 Merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham continued
2000 1999 1998
Business performance Merger, Business performance Business performance
restruct Total Restruct Total Restruct Total
Glaxo SmithKline Adjustments Glaxo- & disposal Glaxo- Glaxo SmithKline Glaxo- & disposal Glaxo- Glaxo SmithKline Glaxo- & disposal Glaxo-
Wellcome Beecham SmithKline of subsids. SmithKline Wellcome Beecham Adjustments SmithKline of subsids. SmithKline Wellcome Beecham Adjustments SmithKline of subsids. SmithKline
Consolidated profit and loss account £m £m £m Key £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 9,559 8,612 (92) C 18,079 – 18,079 8,490 8,381 (75) 16,796 – 16,796 7,983 8,082 (63) 16,002 – 16,002
Cost of sales (2,033) (1,790) 12 G (3,811) (151) (3,962) (1,700) (2,246) 11 (3,935) (399) (4,334) (1,545) (2,386) 9 (3,922) (46) (3,968)
Gross profit 7,526 6,822 (80) 14,268 (151) 14,117 6,790 6,135 (64) 12,861 (399) 12,462 6,438 5,696 (54) 12,080 (46) 12,034
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (3,407) (3,423) 98 A,C,D (6,732) (404) (7,136) (2,991) (3,261) 80 (6,172) (74) (6,246) (2,688) (3,120) 68 (5,740) (136) (5,876)
Research and development expenditure (1,352) (1,158) – (2,510) (16) (2,526) (1,269) (1,017) – (2,286) – (2,286) (1,163) (910) – (2,073) – (2,073)
Trading profit 2,767 2,241 18 5,026 (571) 4,455 2,530 1,857 16 4,403 (473) 3,930 2,587 1,666 14 4,267 (182) 4,085
Other operating income/(expense) 251 50 (27) D,F,G 274 – 274 292 132 (11) 413 – 413 96 134 (9) 221 – 221
Operating profit 3,018 2,291 (9) 5,300 (571) 4,729 2,822 1,989 5 4,816 (473) 4,343 2,683 1,800 5 4,488 (182) 4,306
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures – 65 – 65 (8) 57 3 12 – 15 (8) 7 22 – – 22 – 22
and associated undertakings
Profit on disposal of interest in associate 144 – – 144 – 144 39 – – 39 – 39 – – – – – –
Profit on dissolution of joint venture – – – – – – – – – – – – 57 – – 57 – 57
Product divestments – – – – 1,416 1,416 – – – – – – – – – – – –
Merger transaction costs – – – – (121) (121) – – – – – – – – – – – –
Disposal of businesses:
Provision for loss on disposal – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – (629) (629)
Loss on disposal – – – – (14) (14) – – – – (635) (635) – – – – – –
Utilisation of provision – – – – – – – – – – 644 644 – – – – – –
Profit before interest 3,162 2,356 (9) 5,509 702 6,211 2,864 2,001 5 4,870 (472) 4,398 2,762 1,800 5 4,567 (811) 3,756
Net interest payable (87) (78) (17) A (182) – (182) (92) (60) (10) (162) – (162) (91) (87) (14) (192) – (192)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 3,075 2,278 (26) 5,327 702 6,029 2,772 1,941 (5) 4,708 (472) 4,236 2,671 1,713 (9) 4,375 (811) 3,564
Taxation (846) (615) 7 (1,454) (245) (1,699) (803) (524) – (1,327) 109 (1,218) (815) (463) 2 (1,276) 299 (977)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 2,229 1,663 (19) 3,873 457 4,330 1,969 1,417 (5) 3,381 (363) 3,018 1,856 1,250 (7) 3,099 (512) 2,587
Minority interests (21) (99) – (120) – (120) (18) (92) – (110) – (110) (20) (82) – (102) – (102)
Preference share dividends – (56) – (56) – (56) – (49) – (49) – (49) – (50) – (50) – (50)
Earnings (Profit attributable to shareholders) 2,208 1,508 (19) 3,697 457 4,154 1,951 1,276 (5) 3,222 (363) 2,859 1,836 1,118 (7) 2,947 (512) 2,435
Key: A – Interest previously capitalised; C – Discounts; D – Other operating income/(expense); F – Investment reclassification;
G – Royalty elimination
2000 1999 1998
Glaxo SmithKline Glaxo- Glaxo SmithKline Glaxo- Glaxo- SmithKline Glaxo-
Wellcome Beecham Adjustments SmithKline Wellcome Beecham Adjustments SmithKline Wellcome Beecham Adjustments SmithKline
Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Profit attributable to shareholders 1,917 2,256 (19) 4,154 1,811 1,053 (5) 2,859 1,836 606 (7) 2,435
Exchange movement on overseas net assets 97 (120) – (23) (115) (157) – (272) 1 3 – 4
UK tax on exchange movements (9) 25 – 16 – (44) – (44) – 24 – 24
Total recognised gains and losses 2,005 2,161 (19) 4,147 1,696 852 (5) 2,543 1,837 633 (7) 2,46386 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
7 Segment information
An analysis of turnover, profit before taxation, total assets, net assets and tangible fixed assets by geographical and business segment
areset out below.The business segments consist of Pharmaceuticals (prescription pharmaceuticals and vaccines), Consumer Healthcare
(oralcare, OTC medicines and nutritional healthcare) and Healthcare Services (clinical laboratory testing and pharmacy benefit management).
Thegeographical segments reflect the Group’s most significant regional markets and are consistent with the Group’s regional market
management reportingstructure. Following the sale of Diversified Pharmaceutical Services and Clinical Laboratories in 1999, the Healthcare
Services segment no longer forms part of the ongoing business of the Group. Business segment data includes a charge allocating all corporate
costs to the segments; there are no intra-segment sales.
The Group’s activities are organised on a global basis. The geographical segmental figures are therefore influenced by the location of the
Group’s operating resources, in particular manufacture and research, and by variations over time in intra-group trading and funding
arrangements.
2000 1999 1998
Turnover by business sector £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 15,429 13,618 12,563
Consumer Healthcare 2,650 2,546 2,375
Healthcare Services – 632 1,064
External turnover 18,079 16,796 16,002
Turnover by location of customer
USA 8,554 7,732 7,438
Europe 5,264 5,291 5,010
Rest of the World 4,261 3,773 3,554
External turnover 18,079 16,796 16,002
Profit before tax by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 4,316 3,938 3,901
Consumer Healthcare 413 410 329
Healthcare Services – (5) 76
Operating profit 4,729 4,343 4,306
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 57 7 22
Profit on disposal of associate (1998 – dissolution of joint venture) 144 39 57
Divestments 1,402 9 (629)
Merger transaction costs (121) – –
Net interest payable (182) (162) (192)
Profit before taxation 6,029 4,236 3,564
Profit before taxation 6,029 4,236 3,564
Taxation (1,699) (1,218) (977)
Minority interests (120) (110) (102)
Preference share dividends (56) (49) (50)
Earnings 4,154 2,859 2,435
Total assets by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 19,403 16,520
Consumer Healthcare 2,187 2,254
Total assets 21,590 18,774
Net assets by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 7,739 5,471
Consumer Healthcare 1,216 1,136
Net assets 8,955 6,607Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 87
7 Segment informationcontinued
2000 1999 1998
Turnover by location of subsidiary undertaking £m £m £m
USA 8,850 7,967 7,621
Europe 9,970 9,592 8,609
Rest of the World 5,112 5,232 3,964
Gross turnover 23,932 22,791 20,194
USA (297) (237) (186)
Europe (4,294) (3,933) (3,210)
Rest of the World (1,262) (1,825) (796)
Inter-segment turnover (5,853) (5,995) (4,192)
USA 8,553 7,730 7,435
Europe 5,676 5,659 5,399
Rest of the World 3,850 3,407 3,168
External turnover 18,079 16,796 16,002
Profit before tax by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 2,270 2,110 1,741
Europe 1,369 1,947 1,367
Rest of the World 1,090 286 1,198
Operating profit 4,729 4,343 4,306
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 57 7 22
Profit on disposal of associate (1998 – dissolution of joint venture) 144 39 57
Divestments 1,402 9 (629)
Merger transaction costs (121) – –
Net interest payable (182) (162) (192)
Profit before taxation 6,029 4,236 3,564
Profit before taxation 6,029 4,236 3,564
Taxation (1,699) (1,218) (977)
Minority interests (120) (110) (102)
Preference share dividends (56) (49) (50)
Earnings 4,154 2,859 2,435
Total assets by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 4,616 3,847
Europe 10,167 9,270
Rest of the World 3,386 3,298
Total operating assets 18,169 16,415
Cash at bank and liquid investments 3,421 2,359
Total assets 21,590 18,774
Net assets by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 573 740
Europe 6,287 5,511
Rest of the World 2,706 2,713
Net operating assets 9,566 8,964
Net debt (611) (2,357)
Net assets 8,955 6,60788 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
7 Segment informationcontinued At 31.12.00
Plant,
Land and equipment Computer Assets in
buildings and vehicles software construction Total
Tangible fixed assets by location of subsidiary undertaking £m £m £m £m £m
USA 684 471 36 278 1,469
Europe 1,416 1,844 184 527 3,971
Rest of the World 613 453 9 127 1,202
Total 2,713 2,768 229 932 6,642
UK segment
Information is given separately in respect of the UK, which, although included in the Group’s Europe market region, is considered the
Group’s home segment for the purposes of segmental reporting.
2000 1999 1998
£m £m £m
Turnover by location of customer 1,151 1,158 1,127
Gross turnover 3,306 3,437 3,362
Inter-segment turnover (1,798) (1,939) (1,810)
Turnover by location of subsidiary 1,508 1,498 1,552
Operating profit 622 1,195 553
Total assets 7,152 5,896
Net assets 4,425 3,151
8 Merger items, restructuring costs and divested businesses
2000 1999
Restruc- Disposal of Restruc- Disposal of
Merger turing Associate subsidiaries Total turing Associate subsidiaries Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Manufacturing and – (171) – – (171) (443) – – (443)
other restructuring
Merger integration costs (400) – – – (400) – – – –
Healthcare Services restructuring – – – – – – – (30) (30)
Effect on operating profit (400) (171) – – (571) (443) – (30) (473)
Share of associate – – (8) – (8) – (8) – (8)
Product divestments 1,416 – – – 1,416 – – – –
Merger transaction costs (121) – – – (121) – – – –
Disposal of businesses:
Loss on disposal – – – (14) (14) – – (635) (635)
Utilisation of provision – – – – – – – 644 644
Effect on profit before tax 895 (171) (8) (14) 702 (443) (8) (21) (472)
Effect on taxation – operating items 125 108
Effect on taxation – non-operating items (370) 1
Effect on taxation (245) 109
Effect on earnings 457 (363)
Manufacturing and other restructuring costs were incurred by Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham in 2000 and 1999 in
implementation of previously announced plans for restructuring of manufacturing and other activities.
Merger integration costs were incurred relating to the integration of Glaxo Wellcomeand SmithKline Beecham into a unified
GlaxoSmithKline business. These costs include consultancy fees in respect of integration planning, initialseverance costs, initial asset write-
offs and costs related to the early vesting or lapse of performance conditions on share options and share incentive awards. Product
divestment income arises from the disposal of Famvir, Kytrilandother products required in order to obtain regulatory approval for the
merger. Merger transaction costs were incurred in order to effect themerger. These costs comprise the fees and expenses incurred in
preparing and implementing the scheme of arrangement for the merger.
The disposal of businesses relates to the disposal of Healthcare Services in 1999. Restructuring costs were incurred in Healthcare Services
before its disposal.
The share of associate relates to restructured costs incurred by Quest Diagnostics.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 89
8 Merger items, restructuring costs and divested businesses continued
In 1998 costs were incurred in respect of restructuring amounting to £90 million and in respect of litigation amounting to £92 million.
Aprovision was made for the loss on disposal of the Healthcare Services businesses amounting to £629 million. Tax relief on these items
was £24 million, £92 million and £183 million respectively.
9 Other operating income/(expense) 2000 1999 1998
£m £m £m
Royalties and other income 153 387 257
Other operating expense (63) (138) (80)
90 249 177
Income from equity investments 184 164 44
274 413 221
Royalties and other income comprises a core of recurring income in the form of royalties from the out-licensing of intellectual property
andincome from disposal or out-licensing of non-core commercial assets, such as older products. Other operating expense comprises
non-recurring costs of defending intellectual property or commercial assets. Income from investments arises from management and
disposalof investments in the Group’s equity investment portfolio.
10 Operating profit 2000 1999 1998
£m £m £m
The following items have been charged in operating profit:
Employee costs (Note 35) 4,487 4,134 3,804
Advertising 652 607 563
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets:
Owned assets 733 648 606
Leased assets 2 2 2
Amortisation of goodwill 11 27 75
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets 27 28 18
Loss on net monetary assets in hyper-inflationary economies 1 3 1
Exchange losses/(gains) on foreign currency deposits/loans 3 (13) 12
Operating lease rentals:
Plant and machinery 44 39 41
Land and buildings 70 77 77
Audit fees 6.3 6.5 6.8
Fees to auditors for other work:
Auditors’ UKfirm 9.4 5.2 2.4
Auditors’ overseas firms 15.3 8.9 7.4
Included within audit fees above is a fee of £10,000 relating to the company audit of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Included within fees to the auditors for other work is £4.4 million relating to the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham.90 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
11 Joint ventures and associated undertakings 2000 1999 1998
£m £m £m
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures:
Glaxo Wellcome Warner-Lambert – – 21
Other 1 (4) (9)
1 (4) 12
Associated undertakings:
Share of profits of Quest Diagnostics Inc. 64 5 –
Share of profits/(losses) of other associated undertakings (1) 18 10
Goodwill written off (7) (12) –
56 11 10
57 7 22
Share of turnover of joint ventures
Glaxo Wellcome Warner-Lambert – – 68
Other 8 7 7
Total 8 7 75
Sales to joint ventures and associated undertakings 15 14 44
12 Net interest payable 2000 1999 1998
£m £m £m
Interest payable
On bank loans and overdrafts (45) (53) (56)
On other loans (271) (240) (276)
In respect of finance leases (1) – –
(317) (293) (332)
Share of interest payable of associate (23) (7) –
(340) (300) (332)
Investment income
Interest income 159 140 139
Realised gains – – 3
Provision for market value adjustments (1) (2) (2)
158 138 140
(182) (162) (192)
13 Taxation
2000 1999 1998
Taxation charge based on profits for the period £m £m £m
UK corporation tax at the UK statutory rate 928 844 862
Less double taxation relief (384) (355) (296)
544 489 566
Overseas taxation 1,258 733 796
Deferred taxation (103) (4) (320)
ACT write-back – – (65)
1,699 1,218 977
£16 million (1999 – £1 million) of the taxation charge is attributable to associated undertakings.Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 91
13 Taxationcontinued
2000 1999 1998
Reconciliation of the taxation rate % % %
UKstatutory rate of taxation 30.0 30.3 31.0
Deferred taxation not provided on fixed assets (0.3) (0.1) 0.1
Effect of special taxation status in manufacturing locations (3.6) (3.4) (1.8)
Net cost of different rates of taxation in overseas undertakings 2.4 2.3 2.1
Share option deductions in the USA (0.9) (0.7) (1.5)
Tax losses and R&D credits not previously recognised (1.2) (2.7) (0.4)
Prior year items – (0.6) 0.4
ACT written back – – (1.5)
Other differences 0.9 3.1 0.8
Taxation rate on business performance 27.3 28.2 29.2
Merger and restructuring costs 0.9 0.6 (1.8)
Taxation rate on total group results 28.2 28.8 27.4
Profits arising from manufacturing operations in Singapore, Puerto Rico and Ireland are taxed at reduced rates. The effect of this reduction
in the taxation charge increased earnings per Ordinary Share by 3.6p in 2000, by 2.3p in 1999 and by 1.0p in 1998.
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations, with cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets, gives rise to
complexity and delay in negotiations with revenue authorities as to the profits that fall to be taxed in individual territories: resolution of
such transfer pricing issues is an inevitable and continuing fact of life for the Group. For a number of years Glaxo Wellcome has had
significant open issues relating to transfer pricing in the USA. The issues, principally relating to the success of Zantac, relate to all years
from 1989 to the present and there remains a wide variation between the claims of the Internal Revenue Service and the Group’s
estimation of its taxation liabilities. These issues are now the subject of discussions between the US and UK tax authorities under the
termsof the double tax convention between the two countries. Having taken appropriate professional advice in seeking to manage these
issues to a satisfactory conclusion, the Directors continue to believe that the Group has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to
arise from open assessments.
Save as shown in these accounts, no provision has been made for taxation which would arise on the distribution of profits retained by
overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings, on the grounds that no remittance of profit retained at 31st December 2000 is required in
such a way that incremental tax will arise.
Tax creditor Deferred tax
Tax balances £m £m
At 1st January 2000 (1,495) 742
Exchange adjustments (72) 44
(Charge)/credit to profit and loss account (1,786) 103
Credit to reserves 16 –
Cash paid 1,240 –
Other movements (4) –
At 31st December 2000 (2,101) 889
Full potential Provided
At 31.12.00 At 31.12.99 At 31.12.00 At 31.12.99
Deferred taxation asset/(liability) £m £m £m £m
Accelerated capital allowances (619) (604) (11) (14)
Unremitted foreign investment income – (3) – (3)
Stock valuation adjustment (64) (70) (64) (70)
Intra-Group profit 314 376 44 35
Diversified Pharmaceutical Services disposal 10 29 10 29
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 300 311 300 311
Manufacturing restructuring 55 31 55 31
Tax losses 209 211 209 211
Other timing differences 563 388 346 212
768 669 889 742
Of the above categories of provided deferred taxation, stock valuation adjustments, intra-group profit and other timing differences
arecurrent.92 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
14 Earnings per Ordinary Share 2000 1999 1998
p p p
Basic earnings per Ordinary Share 68.5 46.7 39.9
Adjustment for merger items, restructuring costs and disposal of subsidiaries:
Merger integration and transaction costs 6.8 – –
Product divestments (16.8) – –
Restructuring costs 2.2 5.5 1.1
Disposal of subsidiaries 0.2 0.4 7.3
Associates 0.1 0.1 –
Adjusted earnings per Ordinary Share 61.0 52.7 48.3
Diluted earnings per Ordinary Share 67.7 46.3 39.4
Earnings per Ordinary Share has been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number
ofOrdinary Shares in issue during the period. The numbers used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per Ordinary Share are
reconciledbelow.
In order to illustrate business performance, excluding merger and manufacturing restructuring costs, adjusted earnings and adjusted
earnings per share are presented.
Net profit for the period attributable to shareholders £m £m £m
Earnings – basic and diluted 4,154 2,859 2,435
Adjustments for merger items, restructuring costs and disposal of subsidiaries (457) 363 512
Adjusted earnings 3,697 3,222 2,947
Weighted average number of shares in issue millions millions millions
Basic and adjusted 6,065 6,118 6,100
Dilution for share options 69 53 78
Diluted 6,134 6,171 6,178
Shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trusts are excluded.Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 93
15 Dividends 2000 1999 1998
£m £m £m
Glaxo Wellcome
Interim 538 545 540
Second interim 827 – –
Final – 796 760
1,365 1,341 1,300
SmithKline Beecham
First interim 162 148 134
Second interim 162 148 134
Third interim 163 147 133
Fourth interim 245 221 202
732 664 603
Total 2,097 2,005 1,903
Dividends are stated after deducting dividends receivable by the Trustees of Employee Share Ownership Plans Trusts, whereapplicable.
2000 1999 1998
Dividends per share p p p
Glaxo Wellcome plc – per Glaxo Wellcome share
Interim 15 15 15
Second interim 23 – –
Final – 22 21
38 37 36
The equivalent dividend per GlaxoSmithKline share is the same as the dividend per Glaxo Wellcome share.
SmithKline Beecham plc – per SmithKline Beecham share
First interim 3.0 2.7 2.425
Second interim 3.0 2.7 2.425
Third interim 3.0 2.7 2.425
Fourth interim 4.5 4.05 3.660
13.5 12.15 10.935
Equivalent dividend per GlaxoSmithKline share
First interim 6.59 5.93 5.33
Second interim 6.59 5.93 5.33
Third interim 6.59 5.93 5.33
Fourth interim 9.89 8.90 8.03
29.66 26.69 24.0294 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
16 Goodwill Total
£m
Cost at 1st January 2000 174
Exchange adjustments 5
Additions 16
Cost at 31st December 2000 195
Amortisation at 1st January 2000 (14)
Provision for the year (11)
Amortisation at 31st December 2000 (25)
Net book value at 1st January 2000 160
Net book value at 31st December 2000 170
Licences,
17 Intangible assets patents, etc. Brands Total
£m £m £m
Cost at 1st January 2000 349 640 989
Exchange adjustments 6 15 21
Additions 96 – 96
Assets written off (27) – (27)
Cost at 31st December 2000 424 655 1,079
Amortisation at 1st January 2000 (63) – (63)
Exchange adjustments (2) – (2)
Provision for the year (27) – (27)
Assets written off 8 – 8
Amortisation at 31st December 2000 (84) – (84)
Impairment at 1st January 2000 – – –
Impairment loss (6) (23) (29)
Impairment at 31st December 2000 (6) (23) (29)
Net book value at 1st January 2000 286 640 926
Net book value at 31st December 2000 334 632 966
Brands largely comprise a portfolio of Sterling products such as Panadol, Solpadeineand Hedex. Each of these is considered to have an
indefinite life given the strength and durability of the brand and the level of marketing support. Accordingly, they are not amortised.
Thevaluation of each brand is reviewed annually using a 10 year cash flow forecast as this was the basis for the original independent
assessment when they were acquired in 1994. The impairment loss in 2000 has been calculated using a discount rate of 12 per cent.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 95
Plant,
Land and equipment Computer Assets in
18 Tangible fixed assets buildings and vehicles software construction Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost at 1st January 2000 3,522 6,144 250 855 10,771
Exchange adjustments 71 121 2 29 223
Additions 57 194 95 672 1,018
Disposals (52) (369) (29) (7) (457)
Reclassifications 160 436 – (596) –
Cost at 31st December 2000 3,758 6,526 318 953 11,555
Depreciation at 1st January 2000 (815) (3,356) (28) – (4,199)
Exchange adjustments (18) (68) – – (86)
Provision for the year (120) (553) (62) – (735)
Disposals 16 283 1 – 300
Depreciation at 31st December 2000 (937) (3,694) (89) – (4,720)
Impairment at 1st January 2000 (66) (95) – (9) (170)
Impairment loss (45) (28) – (12) (85)
Disposals 15 47 – – 62
Reclassifications (12) 12 – – –
Impairment at 31st December 2000 (108) (64) – (21) (193)
Net book value at 1st January 2000 2,641 2,693 222 846 6,402
Net book value at 31st December 2000 2,713 2,768 229 932 6,642
The net book value at 31st December 2000 of the Group’s land and buildings comprises freehold properties £2,452 million
(at 1st January 2000 – £2,400million), properties with leases of 50 years or more £135million (at 1st January 2000 – £136million)
and properties with leases of less than 50 years £126 million (at 1stJanuary 2000 – £105million).
Included in plant, equipment and vehicles at 31st December 2000 are leased assets with a cost of £20 million
(at 1st January 2000 – £9 million), accumulated depreciation of £4 million (at 1st January 2000 – £6 million) and a net book value
of £16 million (at 1st January 2000 – £3 million).
The impairment loss principally relates to reductions in forecast cash flows resulting from decisions to close manufacturing facilities
andhasbeen measured by reference to value in use, using a discount rate of 10 per cent.
Joint Associated Equity Own
19 Fixed asset investments ventures undertakings investments shares Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2000 1 116 192 1,495 1,804
Exchange adjustments – 10 13 – 23
Additions – 2 52 1,229 1,283
Charge for the year – – – (203) (203)
Impairment – – (21) – (21)
Transfer to current assets – (54) (83) – (137)
Disposals – (11) (20) (194) (225)
Retained profit for the year – 27 – – 27
Goodwill amortisation – (7) – – (7)
At 31st December 2000 1 83 133 2,327 2,544
Investments in joint ventures comprise £1 million share of gross assets (1999 – £1 million) and £nil share of gross liabilities (1999– £nil).
The principal associated undertaking is Quest Diagnostics, Incorporated, a US clinical laboratory business listed on the New York Stock
Exchangewith a book value of £78 million and a market value of £1,200 million at 31st December 2000. The Group owns 27.0 per cent of
Quest. The cost includes goodwill of £137 million which is being amortised over 20 years; the amortisation charge for 2000 was £7million.
Goodwill of £131 million which relates to the continuing Group interest in Clinical Laboratories assets attributed to Quest, remains eliminated
against Group reserves.
Equity investments comprise listed investments of £31 million and unlisted investments of £102 million. The market value of listed investments
was £62 million.
Investments in own shares consist of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts. Details are given in Note 33.96 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
20 Equity investments
£m
At 1st January 2000 52
Exchange adjustments (1)
Additions 23
Transfer from fixed assets 137
Impairment (17)
Disposals (23)
At 31st December 2000 171
Equity investments comprise listed investments of £162 million (1999 – £41 million) and unlisted investments of £9 million
(1999 – £11million). Themarket value of listed investments was £851 million (1999 – £156 million).
21 Stocks 2000 1999
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 405 471
Work in progress 1,262 1,123
Finished goods 610 649
2,277 2,243
22 Debtors 2000 1999
£m £m
Amounts due within one year
Trade debtors 3,336 2,972
Other debtors 616 493
Prepaid pension contributions 1 1
Other prepayments and accrued income 197 202
Amounts due after one year
Other debtors 360 418
Deferred taxation (Note 13) 889 742
5,399 4,828
Debtors include trading balances of £nil (1999 – £1million) due from joint ventures and associated undertakings.
23 Other creditors 2000 1999
£m £m
Amounts due within one year
Trade creditors 812 803
Taxation (Note 13) 2,061 1,429
Social security 77 81
Other creditors 465 423
Accruals and deferred income 2,146 1,721
Dividend proposed 1,242 1,172
6,803 5,629
Amounts due after one year
Taxation (Note 13) 40 66
Other creditors 103 81
143 147
Creditors include trading balances of £1 million (1999 – £1 million) due to joint ventures and associated undertakings.
Accruals include accruals for wages and salaries of £252 million (1999 – £227 million).Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 97
24 Provisions for Pensions and other Indemnified Legal
post-retirement Manufacturing Merger disposal and other Other
liabilities and charges benefits restructuring integration liabilities disputes provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2000 869 213 – 150 292 151 1,675
Exchange adjustments 59 4 – 8 11 6 88
Charge for the year 83 21 18 60 29 15 226
Applied (89) (53) (2) (74) (43) (37) (298)
Other movements (26) (11) – – – 3 (34)
At 31st December 2000 896 174 16 144 289 138 1,657
The Group has continued to recognise costs in 2000 in respect of plans for manufacturing and other restructuring initiated in 1998 and
1999 and to be implemented over the period to 2003. Costs recognised as a provision, principally in respect of identified severances at
sites where it has been announced that manufacturing activities will cease, are expected to be incurred mainly between 2001 and 2003.
Costs of asset write-downs have been recognised as an impairment of fixed assets.
The Group has recognised costs in 2000 in respect of plans for the integration of the Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham businesses,
to be implemented largely between 2001 and 2003. Costs recognised as a provision, principally in respect of identified severances, are
expected to be incurred in 2001.
The provision for indemnified disposal liabilities relates to indemnities granted to third parties in respect of operations disposed of in prior
years, including provisions, indemnities and purchase price adjustments in respect of the exit from the Healthcare Services businesses.
Provisions for legal and other disputes and other matters include amounts relating to US anti-trust, product liability, intellectual property
rights, contract terminations, self-insurance, environmental clean-up and property rental.
The amounts provided include estimates of obligations arising from quantified and unquantified claims. Although the outcome of claims,
legal proceedings and other matters in which GlaxoSmithKline is involved cannot be predicted with any certainty, the Directors, having
taken appropriate legal advice, do not expect GlaxoSmithKline’s ultimate liability for such matters, after taking into account provisions, tax
benefits and insurance, to have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of its operations or cash flows.
It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of these matters may be the subject of negotiation and litigation over several
years. The largest individual amounts are expected to be settled within one or two years.
For discussion of litigation issues, refer to ‘Legal proceedings’ in Note 31.
25 Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities, comprising warranties, discounted bills, performance guarantees and other items arising in the normal course of
business, amounted at 31st December 2000 to £42million (1999 – £48 million).98 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
26 Net debt 2000 1999
£m £m
Liquid investments 2,138 1,780
Cash at bank 1,283 579
3,421 2,359
Loans and overdrafts due within one year:
Bank loans and overdrafts (447) (479)
Commercial paper (1,599) (1,094)
Eurobonds (221) (819)
Obligations under finance leases (2) (1)
Other loans (12) (426)
(2,281) (2,819)
Loans due after one year:
Bank loans (4) (5)
Eurobonds (1,644) (1,800)
Loan Stock (18) (20)
Obligations under finance leases (14) (2)
Other loans (71) (70)
(1,751) (1,897)
Net debt (611) (2,357)
Market value Book value
2000 1999 2000 1999
Liquid investments £m £m £m £m
Government and equivalent investments 177 238 177 238
Other investments 1,508 1,345 1,504 1,342
Deposits at banks 457 200 457 200
2,142 1,783 2,138 1,780
At the balance sheet date the Group’s liquid investments included listed investments of £142 million (1999 – £161million), with an
aggregate market value of £143 million (1999 – £162million).
Loans and overdrafts due within one year
Commercial paper comprises a US$5 billion programme, of which £1,599 million was in issue at 31st December 2000 (1999 – £1,094 million),
backed up by committed facilities of 364 days duration of £940 million, renewable annually, and liquid investments of £850 million.
The weighted average interest rate on commercial paper borrowings at 31st December 2000 was 4.9per cent. The weighted average
interest rate on other loans and overdrafts due within one year of 31st December 2000 was 6.9per cent.
Loans due after one year
Loans due after one year are repayable over various periods from 2002 to 2010 as follows:
2000 1999
£m £m
Between one and two years 646 211
Between two and three years 3 621
Between three and four years 144 1
Between four and five years 936 175
After five years 22 889
1,751 1,897
The loans carry interest at effective rates between 0.76 per cent and 8.75 per cent.Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 99
26 Net debt continued
Secured loans
Loans amounting to £45 million (1999 – £31 million) are secured by charges on fixed and current assets.
2000 1999
Finance lease obligations £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 2 1
Rental payments due between one and two years 13 2
Rental payments due between two and three years 1 –
Total future rental payments 16 3
Future finance charges – –
Total finance lease obligations 16 3
Financial instruments
Further information is given in Note 34.
27 Commitments
2000 1999
Capital commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the accounts
Intangible fixed assets 546 429
Tangible fixed assets 312 336
Acquisition of Block Drug Company Inc. 832 –
1,690 765
Commitments under licensing and other agreements to purchase intangible assets became payable over a number of years if a series of
future ‘milestones’ is achieved.
Commitments under operating leases to pay rentals for the next year
Operating leases on land and buildings which expire:
In one year or less 8 5
Between one and five years 30 30
After five years 39 36
77 71
Operating leases on plant and equipment which expire:
In one year or less 14 13
Between one and five years 38 40
52 53
Commitments under operating leases to pay rentals in future years
2001 129 124
2002 97 85
2003 75 67
2004 51 51
2005 43 41
2006 and thereafter 208 216
603 584100 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
Share
28 Share capital and share premium account Redeemable preference shares of £1 each Ordinary Shares of 25p each p are ccm oi uu nm t
Number £m Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31st December 2000 50,000 – 9,999,800,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
Share capital issued prior to scheme of arrangement 50,000 – 8 – –
Share capital issued under scheme of arrangement – – 6,222,462,894 1,556 –
Share capital issued under share option schemes – – 3,199,272 – 30
At 31st December 2000 50,000 – 6,225,662,174 1,556 30
Number (000)
Number of shares issuable under outstanding options (Note 33)
At 31st December 2000 66,706
Number of unissued shares not under option
At 31st December 2000 3,707,432
The redeemable preference shares were issued at par. They are non-voting (except in respect of resolutions to wind up the company or vary
the rights of the redeemable preference shares), carry no right to dividend and are entitled to priority repayment in full from the assets of
the company on a winding up. They are redeemable by the company at par on 60 days notice.
If the merger between Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham had taken place with effect from 31st December 1999 the nominal value
of the issued share capital at that date would have been £1,549 million.
For details of substantial shareholdings refer to Substantial shareholdings (page 159).
29 Non-equity minority interest
SB Holdings Corporation (SBH Corp), a subsidiary incorporated in Delaware, USA, has in issue $500 million of Flexible Auction Market
Preferred Stock (Flex AMPS), comprising 5,000 shares of $100,000 each, issued in two series, the dividend on which was fixed on issuance
in 1996 over a five and seven year period respectively for each series. SBH Corp also has in issue $400 million of Auction Rate Preference
Stock (ARPS), comprising 4,000 shares of $100,000 each, issued in five series, the dividend on which varies (predominately with prevailing
interest rates) and is set every seven weeks at an auction at which the shares are also traded.
SmithKline Beecham Corporation (SB Corp), a subsidiary incorporated in Pennsylvania, USA, had in issue at 31st December 2000
$650million of ARPS, comprising 1,300 shares of $500,000 each, issued in eight series. The dividend rate on each series varied
(predominately with prevailing interest rates) and was set every seven weeks at an auction at which the shares were also traded.
Together, the ARPS and the Flex AMPS constitute the preference shares which represent the non-equity minority interest.
SmithKline Beecham plc in certain circumstances guarantees payment of dividends declared on the preference shares. SmithKline Beecham
plc has also agreed with SB Corp and SBH Corp that in certain circumstances it will provide support to SB Corp and SBH Corp in relation to
the principal. However, any guarantee or support is limited so that in no circumstances could the holder of preference shares be in a more
favourable position than had they been a holder of a preference share in GlaxoSmithKline plc. The preference shares represent a long-term
non-equity minority interest in the Group balance sheet in accordance with FRS 4 ‘Capital Instruments’.
The SBCorp ARPS were repaid in full in February and March 2001.Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 101
Other Profit and
30 Other reserves reserves loss account Total
£m £m £m
At 31st December 1997 (3,738) 5,681 1,943
Goodwill offset against profit and loss account reserve 4,840 (4,840) –
Goodwill written off to profit and loss account – 3 3
Exchange adjustments relating to:
Net assets of subsidiary and associated undertakings – 8 8
Retained profit of subsidiary and associated undertakings – 49 49
Goodwill – 34 34
Borrowings designated as hedges – (87) (87)
UK tax on exchange movements – 24 24
Shares issued 435 – 435
Profit attributable to shareholders – 2,435 2,435
Dividends – (1,903) (1,903)
Revaluation of goodwill due to exchange – (34) (34)
At 31st December 1998 1537 1,370 2,907
Goodwill written off to profit and loss account – 335 335
Exchange adjustments relating to:
Net assets of subsidiary and associated undertakings – (398) (398)
Retained profit of subsidiary and associated undertakings – (16) (16)
Goodwill – 34 34
Borrowings designated as hedges – 113 113
UK tax on exchange movements – (44) (44)
Shares issued 164 – 164
Profit attributable to shareholders – 2,859 2,859
Dividends – (2,005) (2,005)
Revaluation of goodwill due to exchange – (34) (34)
At 31st December 1999 1,701 2,214 3,915
Goodwill written off to profit and loss account – 2 2
Exchange adjustments relating to:
Net assets of subsidiary and associated undertakings – 62 62
Retained profit of subsidiary and associated undertakings – 9 9
Goodwill – (10) (10)
Borrowings designated as hedges – (84) (84)
UK tax on exchange movements – 16 16
Shares issued 148 – 148
Profit attributable to shareholders – 4,154 4,154
Dividends – (2,097) (2,097)
Revaluation of goodwill due to exchange – 10 10
At 31st December 2000 1,849 4,276 6,125
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1st January 1998 which has been written off against other reserves amounts to £6,180million,
including goodwill of £4,840 million previously held as a goodwill reserve which was offset against other reserves in 1998. Goodwill
denominated in local currencies which is subject to revaluation amounted to £325 million at 31st December 2000.
Goodwill on acquisitions after 1st January 1998 has been capitalised, in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 3.
Exchange adjustments debited to other reserves amount cumulatively to £1,147 million.
Other reserves include the merger reserve created on the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham amounting to £1,561 million
at 31st December 2000 (1999 – £1,413 million; 1998 – £1,249 million).
Total reserves amounted to £6,125 million at 31st December 2000 (1999 – £3,915 million; 1998 – £2,907 million), of which £nil
(1999 – £nil; 1998 – £nil) relates to the company, £6,097 million (1999 – £3,893 million; 1998 – £2,928 million) relates to subsidiary
undertakings and £28 million (1999 – £22million; 1998 – £21 million negative) relates to joint ventures and associated undertakings.102 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
31 Legal proceedings With respect to all the pending litigation in the USA relating to
Paxil, the Group believes that its patents are valid and that the third
The Group is involved in various legal and administrative
party compounds do infringe the Group’s patents, and it intends to
proceedings considered normal to its business, principally
vigorously litigate its position.
intellectual property cases, product liability, and governmental
investigations, the most significant of which are described below. Following the expiration of the data exclusivity period in Europe,
GlaxoSmithKline is committed to ensuring the safety of its products GlaxoSmithKline understands that an authorisation has been issued to
throughout the world. Notwithstanding high standards of quality Synthon by regulatory authorities in Denmark for paroxetine mesylate,
control, product liability is a significant commercial risk for a different salt form of paroxetine hydrochloride, the active ingredient
GlaxoSmithKline in common with others in the pharmaceutical in Seroxat/Paxil. Authorisations are under assessment in other
industry. The Group is exposed to the ongoing development of European countries under the mutual recognition process. The Group
‘strict liability’ and to the continuing readiness of consumers, has initiated litigation challenging the approval by the Danish Medicines
particularly in the USA, to enter into individual and class action Agency on grounds that an authorisation should not havebeen
litigation. granted under the abridged procedure as paroxetine mesylate is not
essentially similar to Seroxat. In addition, GlaxoSmithKline understands
Intellectual property that a marketing authorisation has been issued in Denmark for
In July 1998 the Group filed an action against TorPharm, Apotex paroxetine hydrochloride anhydrate, another variant of the Group’s
Inc. and Apotex Corp in the US District Court for the Northern product, which has recently been launched. GlaxoSmithKline believes
District of Illinois charging infringement of the Group’s patent for that marketing of either a paroxetine hydrochloride anhydrate product
paroxetine hydrochloride hemihydrate (Paxil/Seroxat). TorPharm, or a paroxetine mesylate product by thirdparties in European
through its US agent, Apotex Corp, filed an Abbreviated New Drug countries infringes its patents and is vigorously litigating its position.
Application (ANDA) with the US Food and Drug Administration
In July 1996 Emory University obtained grant of a US patent with
(FDA) seeking approval to introduce a generic form of Paxilinto
claims purporting to cover the compound lamivudine (3TC), the
theUS market prior to expiration in 2006 of the Group’s patent.
active ingredient in Epivir. The active ingredient is also a component
TorPharm asserted in the ANDA that its compound does not
of both Combivirand Trizivir. Emory sued GlaxoSmithKline and its
infringe the Group’s patent, and in February 2000 challenged the
licensor BioChem for patent infringement in the US District Court
validity of that patent. The parties are still engaged in the discovery
for the Northern District of Georgia. The litigation was stayed in July
process; no trial date has been set.
1998 pending the outcome of interference proceedings in the US
In 1999 the Group filed an action against Geneva Pharmaceuticals Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) intended to establish whether
and in 2000 against Zenith Goldline in the US District Court for the subject matter of Emory’s patent rightly belongs to Emory or to
theEastern District of Pennsylvania charging infringement of BioChem. The USPTO ruled in favour of BioChem on the invalidity
theGroup’s patents for paroxetine hydrochloride hemihydrate of Emory’s patent but left other issues unresolved. GlaxoSmithKline
(Paxil/Seroxat). Geneva and Zenith Goldline filed ANDAs for is seeking resolution of those issues by an appeal to the US District
paroxetine hydrochloride asserting that their compounds do Court for the District of Columbia.
notinfringe the Group’s patents or that the patents are invalid.
Four distributors of generic pharmaceutical products have filed
Inaddition the Group has filed new actions against TorPharm
ANDAs for sustained release bupropion hydrochloride tablets
intheEastern District of Pennsylvania based upon new patents
(Wellbutrin andZyban) in the USA, accompanied in each case with
issuedin 1999 and 2000 covering paroxetine. The new patents
acertification of invalidity of the Group’s patents. The Group
were also included in the actions against Geneva and Zenith
hasbrought suit against each of the filing parties on grounds of
Goldline. Proceedings in those actions have been deferred
patent infringement. GlaxoSmithKline filed suit against Andrx
pendinga decision on GlaxoSmithKline’s motion to consolidate
Pharmaceuticals, the first to file an ANDA, in the US District Court
allPennsylvania litigation.
for the Southern District of Florida. Actions have also been filed
In March 2000 GlaxoSmithKline filed an action against Pentech against Watson Pharmaceuticals in the US District Court for the
inthe US District Court for the Northern District of Illinois for Southern District of Ohio, Eon Labs Manufacturing in the US District
infringement of the Group’s patents for paroxetine hydrochloride. Court for the Eastern District of New York and Impax Laboratories
Pentech filed an ANDA for a capsule version of Paxil, asserting that in the US District Court for the Northern District of California. All
its compound and presentation do not infringe the Group’s patents those cases are in their early stages.
or that the patents are invalid. This matter is still in discovery.
3M (Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company) alleges that
In October 2000 GlaxoSmithKline filed an action against Synthon in certain GlaxoSmithKline respiratory products will, when launched in
the US District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina for the US, infringe 3M’s patents covering inhaled products containing
infringement of the Group’s patents for paroxetine hydrochloride HFA (non-CFC) propellants. GlaxoSmithKline initiated an action
and paroxetine mesylate. Synthon filed a 505(b)(2) application foradeclaratory judgement of invalidity and non-infringement
(a‘paper NDA’) with the US FDA using a different salt form of against 3M in the US District Court for the Middle District of
paroxetine than that used in the marketed form of Paxil. This NorthCarolina. In a separate action 3M initiated an action for
matteris still in its early stages. adeclaratory judgement of invalidity and non-infringement of
GlaxoSmithKline’s patents in the US District Court for Minnesota.
In January 2001 GlaxoSmithKline filed an action against Alphapharm
Both actions remain in the discovery phase.
in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania for
infringement of the Group’s patents for paroxetine hydrochloride.
Alphapharm filed an ANDA for paroxetine hydrochloride asserting
that its product would not infringe the Group’s patents or that the
patents are invalid. This matter is still in its early stages.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 103
31 Legal proceedings continued Antitrust
Twenty individual and chain drug stores filed suit in October 1993
GlaxoSmithKline filed an action for infringement of its patents
against the US pharmaceutical companies of both SmithKline
forcefuroxime axetil, the active ingredient in the Group’s Ceftin
Beecham and Glaxo Wellcome, other drug manufacturers and a
anti-infective product, against Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals in the US
mail order pharmacy in the US District Court for the Middle District
District Court for New Jersey. A preliminary injunction was granted in
of Pennsylvania. That complaint alleged that SmithKline Beecham,
favour of GlaxoSmithKline. Ranbaxy has appealed that decision but in
Glaxo Wellcome and other manufacturer defendants had violated
the interim is barred from marketing its cefuroxime axetil product.
federal antitrust laws by selling and conspiring to sell prescription
GlaxoSmithKline has filed a similar action against Apotex, a second
drugs to mail order pharmacies and other favoured purchasers at
distributor of generic pharmaceutical products, in the US District Court
prices below the prices plaintiffs were charged. According to the
for the Northern District of Illinois. That case is still in its early stages.
complaint, ‘price discrimination’ on the part of the manufacturer
Three distributors of generic pharmaceutical products have filed defendants enabled favoured purchasers to sell drugs at prices that
ANDAs for nabumetone, the active ingredient in Relafen, accompanied were lower than the prices that plaintiffs were able to charge for
in each case with a certification of patent invalidity. The Group has the same drugs, thereby causing plaintiffs to lose sales or cut profit
brought suit against each of the filing parties on grounds of patent margins. Plaintiffs seek declaratory and injunctive relief, treble
infringement. All three cases were consolidated for trial in the US damages, costs and attorneys fees.
District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The trial concluded
Subsequent to the filing of the initial complaint, over 178 similar
inJanuary 2001 but the trial judge has not yet issued a decision.
antitrust suits have been filed in at least 47 different federal judicial
Although the court-ordered stay against the first generic to file
districts and 13 states against the US pharmaceutical businesses of
anANDA expired in March, 2000, no generic product has yet
both SmithKline Beecham and Glaxo Wellcome and, in some cases,
beenlaunched.
as many as 34 other drug manufacturers and wholesalers. The
federal cases have been brought together in the District Court for
Product liability
the Northern District of Illinois for pre-trial purposes.
In 1997 the US Food and Drug Administration became aware
ofreports of cardiac valvular problems in individuals for whom While many of the state complaints include allegations regarding
fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine alone or in combination with purported consumer class actions, only California and the District
phentermine was prescribed as part of a regimen of weight reduction ofColumbia have certified such classes. The federal class action
and requested the voluntary withdrawal of fenfluramine and component, which includes pharmacies representing approximately
dexfenfluramine from the market. The reports of cardiac valvular two-thirds of total US retail sales volume, has been settled by both
problems and the subsequent withdrawal of those products from the Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham. The defendants electing
market spawned numerous product liability lawsuits filed against the to try that case had a verdict directed in their favour, which was
manufacturers and distributors of fenfluramine, dexfenfluramine and largely affirmed on appeal. Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline
phentermine. As one of a number of manufacturers of phentermine, Beecham have settled a large number of the remaining cases.
the Group is a defendant in numerous lawsuits in various state and Majorexceptions include a group of 90 separate lawsuits brought
federal district courts in the USA, many of which have been filed by a common group of lawyers (the Boies group) on behalf of
asclass actions. Most of the lawsuits seek relief including some approximately 3,800 independent retail pharmacies which have
combination of compensatory and punitive damages, medical notbeen settled by SmithKline Beecham. Glaxo Wellcome has not
monitoring and refunds for purchase of drugs. In 1997 the Judicial settled the so-called ‘Rite Aid’ cases, the original cases filed in the
Panel on Multidistrict Litigation issued an order consolidating and Middle District of Pensylvania. Litigation with other plaintiffs
transferring all federal actions to the District Court for the Eastern continues.
District of Pennsylvania. That court approved a global settlement
proposed by defendant American Home Products (‘AHP’), which sold Governmental investigations
fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine. The settlement does not include GlaxoSmithKline received subpoenas from the US Attorney’s office
any of the phentermine defendants, including the Group. An appeal in Boston, Massachusetts, requesting that the Group produce
from the settlement is scheduled for hearing before the Third Circuit documents for the period from 1991 to the present relating to
Court of Appeals in May 2001. AHP continues to settle individual anyrepackaging, relabelling or private label arrangements that
state-court cases before trial. GlaxoSmithKline has had or discussed with third-party customers
during such period. At issue is whether the prices charged to such
Withdrawal of products in the US pharmaceutical and consumer
third parties for GlaxoSmithKline products must be counted for
healthcare businesses has sparked product liability claims and litigation.
Medicaid ‘best price’ purposes. The Group is providing documents
Following the voluntary withdrawal of Lotronexin the US in
in response to the subpoenas.
November 2000 a number of lawsuits have been filed against
GlaxoSmithKline. Several of the suits are individual personal injury GlaxoSmithKline is responding to subpoenas from the Office of
actions, while others have been filed as class actions seeking medical theInspector General of the US Department of Health and Human
monitoring, compensation for personal injury, or damages under state Services, the US Department of Justice and the states of Texas,
consumer protection statutes. Those actions are still at their early stage. California and Nevada in connection with allegations that
Similarly, following the voluntary withdrawal of consumer healthcare pharmaceutical companies, including GlaxoSmithKline, have
products inwhich phenylpropanolamine (PPA) was an active violated federal fraud and abuse laws such as the Federal False
ingredient the Group has received notice of two purported national Claims Act (and, with respect to Texas, California and Nevada,
class actions seeking relief such as medical monitoring, refunds and comparable state laws) as a result of the way certain drugs are
compensation for personal injury or increased risk of injury for all priced and the way the Medicare and Medicaid programmes
members of a nationwide class who took PPA products. The Group reimburse for those drugs.
has also received several lawsuits in California alleging personal injury,
increased risk of injury, and unfair and deceptive business practices.
Again all those claims and actions are at an early stage.104 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
31 Legal proceedingscontinued environmentally responsible member in the local, national and
worldwide community in which it operates. The Group believes that its
In November 2000 the US Federal Trade Commission staff advised
operations comply in all material respects with applicable environmental
GlaxoSmithKline that the staff was conducting a non-public
laws and regulations.
investigation to determine whether the Group was violating Section
5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act by ‘monopolizing or GlaxoSmithKline has been notified of its potential responsibility
attempting to monopolize the market for paroxetine hydrochloride relating to past operations and its past waste disposal practices
by preventing generic competition to Paxil’and requested the atcertain sites, primarily in the USA. Some of these matters are
Group to submit certain information in connection with that thesubject of litigation, including proceedings initiated by the
investigation. The Group is co-operating with the staff’s USfederal or state governments for waste disposal site remediation
investigation, which is in the early stages. costs and tort actions brought by private parties. These include
notification to the Group and Rohm and Haas Company, a company
SBCL indemnities incorporated in the USA, of their responsibility relating to the joint
In connection with the sale of SmithKline Beecham Clinical Laboratories clean-up of the Whitmoyer Laboratories site in Pennsylvania. The
(SBCL) to Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, the Group has agreed to companies are remediating the site pursuant to a consent decree
indemnify Quest Diagnostics, on an after-tax basis, with respect to with the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). However,
certain liabilities arising from the conduct of the SBCL business prior SmithKline Beecham Corp filed a legal action against Rohm and
toclosing. The most significant legal proceedings subject to that Haas in 1992 seeking indemnification in respect of the Whitmoyer
indemnity are governmental and private claims arising from the Laboratories clean-up costs by the terms of the 1978 Agreement
USgovernment’s investigation into SBCL’s billing and marketing under which SB Corp purchased the site from Rohm and Haas.
practices and liabilities arising from the misconduct of a phlebotomist Apanel of the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit reversed in
ata patient service centre in Palo Alto, California. part the order of the District Court which had found in favour of
the Group and remanded the matter for further proceedings to
The Group continues to respond to claims and lawsuits from
allocate proportionate responsibility. That new trial has been
non-governmental parties, including private insurers, self-funded
postponed on the basis of possible administrative or legislative
employer plans and patients, concerning billing and marketing practices
reliefthat would reduce the remediation cost responsibilities of
of SB Clinical Laboratories as those practices may relate to amounts
theparties.
paid by those parties. The lawsuits include purported class actions filed
in various jurisdictions in the USA and two non-class action complaints GlaxoSmithKline has been advised that it may be a responsible party
by a number of insurance companies that seek damages allegedly atapproximately 25 sites, of which fewer than 20 sites, including the
arising from payments they made for clinical laboratory testing services. Whitmoyer site, appear on the National Priority List created by the
All but one of the purported class actions were consolidated for pretrial Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability
proceedings with the first of the two non-class action suits filed by Act (‘Superfund’).
theinsurers in the US District Court for the District of Connecticut.
These proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous waste
InAugust 2000, one of the insurers’ lawsuits was enjoined, and
facilities, transporters of waste to the sites and generators of
shortlythereafter the other one was stayed following the parties’
hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or
representations to the District Court of Connecticut that an agreement
toreimburse the government for clean-up costs. In most instances,
in principle to settle both insurer cases had been reached. With respect
GlaxoSmithKline is involved as an alleged generator of hazardous
to the class action litigation filed on behalf of individual patients and
waste although there are a few sites where GlaxoSmithKline is
entities in the District of Connecticut, settlements were preliminarily
involved as a current or former operator of the facility. Although
approved by the court in February 2001, and in February 2001
Superfund provides that the defendants are jointly and severally
asettlement of the sole non-consolidated class action suit was
liable for clean-up costs, these proceedings are frequently resolved
alsopreliminarily approved by an Illinois state court judge.
on the basis of the nature and quantity of waste disposed of at
In March 1999 the Group learned that an employee at an SBCL thesite by the generator. The Group’s proportionate liability for
patientservice centre in Palo Alto, California had at times reused clean-up costs has been substantially determined for about 20
needles when drawing blood from patients. The phlebotomist was ofthe sites referred to above.
immediately suspended and thereafter dismissed. The Group
GlaxoSmithKline’s potential liability varies greatly from site to
co-operated with local, state and federal health agencies to address
site.While the cost of investigation, study and remediation at
public health issues arising from the employee’s breach of standard
suchsites could, over time, be substantial, GlaxoSmithKline
medical practices and offered free testing for approximately 15,300
routinely accrues amounts related to its share of liability for such
patients whose blood may have been drawn by this phlebotomist to
matters. GlaxoSmithKline does not expect that its share of liability
determine whether those patients have been exposed to hepatitis B,
for such matters over and above any amounts accrued in the
hepatitis C or HIV. A number of civil actions, including some purporting
accounts will have a material impact on its financial condition,
to be class actions, were filed against the Group in state court in
results of its operations or its cash flows. Although the Group
California on behalf of individuals who may have been affected by
makes ongoing capital expenditures for environmental protection
thephlebotomist’s reuse of needles or other alleged improper practices.
equipment, as well as cash expenditures for site remediation and
Cases alleging fear of disease have been dismissed; cases alleging
operation and maintenance of environmental facilities, it does not
actual infection are entering discovery.
anticipate any such expenditures to have a material impact upon
the Group’s capital expenditures or cash flows.
Environmental matters
The Group has a worldwide programme of corporate environmental
Tax matters
standards. These standards ensure that environmental protection is a
Pending tax matters are described in Note 13 to the Financial
key business objective and they detail the purpose, scope, procedures
statements ‘Taxation’.
and responsibilities of every environmental concern throughout the
Group’s worldwide operations. The Group is committed to being anNotes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 105
32 Acquisitions and disposals
Details of the acquisition and disposal of subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures are given below.
2000 Book Fair value Net assets Goodwill Cost of
values adjustments acquired capitalised acquisition
Acquisitions £m £m £m £m £m
Glaxo Wellcome SA 7 – 7 16 23
Acquisition of other minority interests 2 – 2 – 2
9 – 9 16 25
Glaxo Wellcome SA
During 2000 the Group has acquired a further 8.7 per cent of the equity share capital of Glaxo Wellcome SA (formerly Polfa Poznan SA)
in Poland for a cash consideration of £23 million. Goodwill of £16 million has been capitalised and is being amortised over the same period
as the original acquisition in 1998.
Disposals
Affymetrix, Inc.
In May 2000 the Group sold two million shares of its holding in Affymetrix, Inc., an associated undertaking, for cash proceeds of £155 million,
realising a profit of £144 million.
SB Clinical Laboratories
A final cash settlement of US$95 million (£62 million) was made in October 2000 to Quest Diagnostics, Incorporated to complete the sale
of SB Clinical Laboratories.
SB Clinical Glaxo
Laboratories Affymetrix Wellcome SA Other Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid – – 23 2 25
Cash acquired – – – – –
Net cash payment on acquisitions – – 23 2 25
Net cash proceeds from disposals (62) 155 – – 93106 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
32 Acquisitions and disposals continued
1999 Book Fair value Net assets Cost of
values adjustments acquired Goodwill acquisition
Acquisitions £m £m £m £m £m
Amoun Pharmaceuticals Industries Co SAE 11 – 11 61 72
Glaxo Wellcome KK 3 – 3 (3) –
Quest Diagnostics, Incorporated (64) – (64) 268 204
(50) – (50) 326 276
Amoun Pharmaceuticals Industries Co SAE (APIC)
In January 1999 the Group’s subsidiary company in Egypt, Glaxo Wellcome Egypt S.A.E., acquired 98 per cent of Amoun Pharmaceuticals
Industries Co SAE and subsequently increased its holding to 99.5 per cent. Taking account of the minority interest of 11 per cent in Glaxo
Wellcome Egypt S.A.E., the effective Group interest in APIC at 31 December 1999 was 88.6 per cent. The purchase consideration was
Egyptian pounds 397 million (£72 million) paid in cash. Goodwill of Egyptian pounds 336 million (£61million) was capitalised and is being
amortised over 20 years. The acquisition contributed £12 million to turnover in 1999. The contribution to operating profit was not material.
Glaxo Wellcome KK
In July 1999 the Group completed the merger of Nippon Glaxo Limited, the Group’s wholly owned subsidiary in Japan, with Nippon
Wellcome KK (NW), the Group’s majority-owned subsidiary in Japan, to form Glaxo Wellcome KK (GWKK), in which the previous minority
shareholders in NW have a 20 per cent interest. The difference between the minority interest in GWKK and the minority interest in NW was
dealt with as goodwill onconsolidation.
Quest Diagnostics, Incorporated
In August 1999 the Group acquired a 29.2 per cent equity interest in Quest Diagnostics, Incorporated (Quest) as part consideration for the
disposal of SB Clinical Laboratories (see below). Of the £268 million goodwill arising, £131 million remained eliminated against Group
reserves and £137 million was capitalised.
Disposals
Diversified Pharmaceutical Services
In April 1999 the Group sold Diversified Pharmaceuticals Services (DPS) to Express Scripts, Inc for US$700 million (£440 million). After
recognising costs expected to arise on the disposal of £72 million and a charge for goodwill previously written off to reserves of £4 million
a loss of £635 million was made. A provision of £629 million was made in 1998. Up to the date of disposal the turnover of DPS was
£40million and an operating loss of £5 million was made, after charging goodwill amortisation of £17 million.
SB Clinical Laboratories
In August 1999 the Group sold SB Clinical Laboratories to Quest for US$1,025 million (£636 million) in cash and a 29.2 per cent equity
interest in Quest representing a value of US$328 million (£204 million). After recognising costs expected to arise on the disposal of
£81million and a charge for goodwill previously written off to reserves of £316 million, no profit or loss was made on the transaction.
Up to the date of disposal the turnover of SB Clinical Laboratories was £592 million and the operating profit was £30 million.
Affymetrix, Inc.
In August 1999 the Group sold one million shares of its holding in Affymetrix, Inc., an associated undertaking, for cash proceeds of
£41 million, realising a profit of £39million.
SB Clinical
Laboratories DPS Affymetrix APIC Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid – – – 72 72
Cash acquired – – – (5) (5)
Net cash payment on acquisitions – – – 67 67
Net cash proceeds from disposals 599 403 41 – 1,043Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 107
32 Acquisitions and disposals continued
1998 Book Fair value Net assets Goodwill Cost of
values adjustments acquired capitalised acquisition
Acquisitions £m £m £m £m £m
Polfa Poznan SA 68 11 79 102 181
Biddle Sawyer 2 – 2 10 12
Romanian Europharm Group 3 – 3 15 18
73 11 84 127 211
The acquisitions contributed £58 million to turnover in 1998. The contribution to operating profit was not material.
Polfa Poznan SA (now Glaxo Wellcome SA)
In January 1998 the Group acquired 80 per cent of Polfa Poznan SA and subsequently increased its holding to 88.7 per cent. From January
1998 Polfa Poznan SA was accounted for as a subsidiary undertaking. The total cost was £181 million comprising purchase consideration
of £177million and acquisition expenses of £4 million. The purchase consideration was paid in cash, £140 million ($230million) in January
1998 and £37million ($61 million) subsequently. The fair value of the net assets acquired exceeded the book value by £11 million,
comprising adjustments of £7 million to reflect the value of land and buildings and £4 million in respect of deferred tax. Goodwill of
£102million was capitalised and is being amortised over 20 years.
Biddle Sawyer
In January 1998 the Group acquired Biddle Sawyer, an Indian company. The purchase consideration was Rs 7,820 lakhs (£12 million) and
goodwill of Rs 6,792 lakhs (£10 million) was capitalised and is being amortised over 10 years. The consideration was paid in cash.
Romanian Europharm Group
During 1998 the Group acquired a 65 per cent interest in the Romanian Europharm Group. The purchase consideration was £18 million,
paid in cash and £15 million of goodwill was capitalised and is being amortised over 20 years.
Disposals
Glaxo Wellcome Warner-Lambert joint venture
With effect from 31st December 1998 the company dissolved its joint venture with Warner-Lambert for the development and marketing
ofthe Group’s products in the OTC market. Under the terms of the dissolution, Warner-Lambert has the rights to market Zantac 75in the
USA and Canada, while Glaxo Wellcome has the rights to all other products previously marketed through the joint venture and to all its
future products with potential to switch from prescription to OTC. Additionally, Glaxo Wellcome received a balance of cash consideration.
The agreement also included release from warranties given on dissolution of the Glaxo Wellcome Warner-Lambert joint venture ‘base
business’ in 1996. After recognising costs expected to arise on dissolution, an exceptional credit of £57 million was recognised. The tax
attributable was approximately £17million, and the profit attributable to the Group was £40 million.
Romanian Polfa
Europharm Poznan Biddle
Group S.A. Sawyer Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid 18 181 12 211
Cash acquired – (37) – (37)
Net cash payment on acquisitions 18 144 12 174
Net cash proceeds from dissolution of OTC joint venture – – – 20108 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
33 Employee share schemes
The Group operates share option schemes, whereby options are granted to employees to acquire shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc at the grant
price, and share award schemes, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost subject
tothe achievement of performance targets. The details given below relate to schemes operated separately by Glaxo Wellcome and
SmithKline Beecham up to the date of the merger, which became schemes of GlaxoSmithKline on the merger. Each Glaxo Wellcome option
outstanding at the date of the merger was converted into one GlaxoSmithKline option. Each SmithKline Beecham share option
wasconverted into 0.4552 of a GlaxoSmithKline share option and each SmithKline Beecham ADS option was converted into 1.138
GlaxoSmithKline ADR options, with corresponding adjustments to the grant price.
Glaxo Wellcome share option schemes
Glaxo Wellcome operated share option schemes and savings-related share option schemes. Grants under share option schemes were
normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant. At the date of the merger, all share options, except those granted
in 2000, became exercisable and performance conditions, where applicable, lapsed. Grants under savings-related share option schemes
were normally exercisable after threeyears’ saving.
Options under the share option schemes were normally granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant. In accordance with UK
practice, themajority of options under the savings related share option scheme were granted at a price 20 per cent below the market price
ruling at the dateof grant.
Savings-related
Share option schemes share option schemes Total
Weighted Weighted Weighted
exercise exercise exercise
Number of shares issuable under outstanding options Number (000) price Number (000) price Number (000) price
At 31st December 1997 100,568 £7.87 13,783 £6.31 114,351 £7.68
Options granted 22,029 £17.14 1,497 £14.29 23,526 £16.96
Options exercised (39,190) £7.05 (1,783) £5.36 (40,973) £6.98
Options cancelled (4,220) £8.86 (435) £6.72 (4,655) £8.66
At 31st December 1998 79,187 £10.80 13,062 £7.34 92,249 £10.31
Options granted 16,151 £18.43 3,105 £13.27 19,256 £17.59
Options exercised (11,034) £7.26 (4,072) £5.92 (15,106) £6.90
Options cancelled (1,290) £11.62 (677) £11.97 (1,967) £11.74
At 31st December 1999 83,014 £12.74 11,418 £9.18 94,432 £12.31
Options granted 35,989 £14.81 2,112 £16.48 38,101 £14.91
Options exercised (7,956) £7.77 (4,801) £6.72 (12,757) £7.38
Options cancelled (4,299) £12.53 (332) £11.36 (4,631) £12.44
Converted to GlaxoSmithKline options (106,748) £13.87 (8,397) £12.34 (115,145) £13.76
At 31st December 2000 – – – – – –
Glaxo Wellcome share award schemes
Glaxo Wellcome operated a Long Term Incentive Plan and, between 1996 and 1998, an Annual Incentive Plan. The Long Term Incentive
Plan granted awards over shares to Directors and senior staff at a nominal cost. The percentage of each award that vested was based on
the performance of Glaxo Wellcome over a three-year period. The Annual Incentive Plan was a performance bonus consisting of a basic
award ofshares and a matching award with a three-year retention period. As a result of the merger the awards under the Long Term
Incentive Plan became payable in full and the retention period of the Annual Incentive Plan lapsed.
Number of shares issuable under share award schemes Number (000)
At 31st December 1997 2,282
Options granted 641
Options exercised (249)
Options cancelled (2)
At 31st December 1998 2,672
Options granted 695
Options exercised (958)
Options cancelled (45)
At 31st December 1999 2,364
Options granted 826
Options exercised (790)
Options cancelled (289)
Converted to GlaxoSmithKline options (2,111)
At 31st December 2000 –Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 109
33 Employee share schemes continued
SmithKline Beecham share option schemes
SmithKline Beecham adopted the SmithKline Beecham UK Executive Share Option Plan 1989 and the SmithKline Beecham US Executive
Share Option Plan 1989 in 1989. In 1991, SmithKline Beecham adopted an employee share ownership plan under which employees were
granted options over shares and ADSs purchased in the market by the Employee Share Ownership Trust established underthe 1991 Plan.
The former-mentioned Plans and the 1991 Plan are hereafter referred to as ‘the Plans’. Under the Plans, eligible employees were granted
options to subscribe for unissued shares (or ADSs), or in the case only of the 1991 Plan, issued shares bought bythe Employee Share
Ownership Trust, at prices no less than the higher of the average middle market price on the five days prior to thegrant ortheir nominal
amount. Options were normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant. All options became exercisable as a result
of the merger.
Shares ADSs
Weighted Weighted
exercise exercise
Number of shares and ADSs issuable under outstanding options Number (000) price Number (000) price
At 31st December 1997 87,848 £3.29 34,512 $26.43
Options granted 24,383 £7.42 11,310 $60.75
Options exercised (15,861) £2.95 (6,075) $19.21
Options cancelled (808) £2.96 (620) $19.22
At 31st December 1998 95,562 £4.40 39,127 $37.59
Options granted 22,419 £8.12 9,816 $65.51
Options exercised (14,526) £2.88 (4,752) $23.92
Options cancelled (3,026) £3.79 (1,792) $37.30
At 31st December 1999 100,429 £5.47 42,399 $45.59
Options granted 1,448 £8.28 560 $67.00
Options exercised (20,951) £4.30 (8,055) $30.09
Options cancelled (3,769) £5.71 (1,545) $35.16
Converted to GlaxoSmithKline options (77,157) £5.83 (33,359) $50.18
At 31st December 2000 – – – –
SmithKline Beecham Mid-Term Incentive Plan
SmithKline Beecham adopted the Mid-Term Incentive Plan (MTIP) in 1996. Participations in the MTIP were granted annually to senior staff in
SmithKline Beecham, designating a target number of shares for each participant based on job grade. Following a three-year measurement
period, the R&N Committee reviewed SmithKline Beecham’s total shareholder return relative to the other companies comprising the FTSE 100
Index, and made a final award of a proportion of the target number of shares, up to 100 per cent, depending on performance. The first two
measurement periods ended on 31st December 1998 and 1999 and, 100 per cent and 97 per cent, respectively, of the target number of
shares was awarded. Receipt of the award could be deferred, in which case the shares remained in the MTIP. As a result of the merger all
outstanding awards became payable at 100 per cent of the target number of shares at the end of each three-year cycle.
Shares ADSs
Number of shares issuable under the Mid-Term Incentive Plan Number (000) Number (000)
At 31st December 1997 3,331 967
Options granted 1,413 406
Options exercised (46) (11)
Options cancelled (124) (73)
At 31st December 1998 4,574 1,289
Options granted 1,241 380
Options exercised (783) (148)
Options cancelled (196) (39)
At 31st December 1999 4,836 1,482
Options granted 124 24
Options exercised (1,224) (259)
Options cancelled (170) (29)
Converted to GlaxoSmithKline options (3,566) (1,218)
At 31st December 2000 – –110 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
33 Employee share schemescontinued
GlaxoSmithKline share option schemes
Options outstanding Share option Share option Savings related
schemes – shares schemes – ADSs share option schemes
at 31st December2000
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
(000) price (000) price (000) price
At 27th December 2000:
Converted from GW options 106,748 £13.87 – – 8,397 £12.34
Converted from SB options 35,122 £12.81 37,962 $44.10 – –
Options exercised (4,275) £11.18 – – (62) £11.17
Options cancelled – – – – (59) £13.41
At 31st December 2000 137,595 £13.68 37,962 $44.10 8,276 £12.34
Range of exercise prices £3.61 – £19.46 $11.68 – $61.35 £4.75 – £16.48
In order to encourage employees to convert options held over Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline Beecham shares or ADRs into those over
GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADRs, a programme was established to give an additional cash benefit of ten per cent of the exercise price of
the original option provided that the employee remains employed by the Group for two years from the date of the merger and does not
exercise the option before the earlier of six months from the expiry date of the original option and two years from the date of the merger.
Options outstanding Share option Share option Savings related
schemes – shares schemes – ADSs share option schemes
at 31st December2000
Weighted Latest Weighted Latest Weighted Latest
Number exercise exercise Number exercise exercise Number exercise exercise
Year of grant (000) price date (000) price date (000) price date
1991 315 £4.87 05.12.01 231 $14.56 07.12.01 111 £4.75 13.12.01
1992 1,936 £7.13 27.11.02 551 $17.47 27.11.02 – – –
1993 1,611 £5.44 30.11.03 581 $14.42 24.11.03 – – –
1994 6,223 £5.29 22.11.04 2,841 $13.89 22.11.04 – – –
1995 9,122 £6.96 15.11.05 1,447 $19.51 15.11.05 1,788 £5.96 31.05.01
1996 12,412 £8.32 30.11.06 1,969 $25.24 21.11.06 – – –
1997 17,901 £11.25 13.11.07 7,683 $36.31 13.11.07 459 £10.20 31.05.01
1998 28,306 £16.91 23.11.08 11,440 $53.38 23.11.08 942 £14.29 31.05.02
1999 28,344 £18.03 02.12.09 10,607 $57.56 25.11.09 2,867 £13.27 31.05.03
2000 31,425 £14.89 10.09.10 612 $57.26 09.08.10 2,109 £16.48 31.05.04
Total 137,595 £13.68 37,962 $44.10 8,276 £12.34
All of the above options are exercisable, except 30,790,000 options over shares granted in 2000 and the savings related share options
granted in 1998, 1999 and 2000.
There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the financial period. No further options were
granted between 31st December 2000 and 15th March 2001.
Options exercisable Share option Share option Savings related
schemes – shares schemes – ADSs share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
(000) price (000) price (000) price
At 31st December 1998 – GW 29,041 £6.99 – – 1,129 £4.83
– SB 38,394 £2.48 13,987 $19.06 – –
At 31st December 1999 – GW 19,401 £7.03 – – 1,969 £5.96
– SB 38,217 £3.22 16,693 $30.82 – –
At 31st December 2000 – GSK 106,805 £13.36 37,962 $44.10 2,358 £6.73Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 111
33 Employee share schemescontinued
GlaxoSmithKline share option schemes
Shares ADSs
Number of shares and ADSs issuable Number (000) Number (000)
At 27th December 2000
Converted from Glaxo Wellcome options 2,111 –
Converted from SmithKline Beecham options 1,623 1,386
Options exercised (243) –
At 31st December 2000 3,491 1,386
Of the above awards, 466,000 options relating to shares and 515,000 options relating to ADSs were exercisable at 31st December 2000.
Employee Share Ownership Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc to satisfy awards made under
employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the employee share ownership trusts
purchase shares onthe open market with finance provided by the Group by way of loan or contributions.
The expected cost of the obligations to deliver shares under the employee incentive plans and share option schemes are normally spread
over the periods of service in respect of which the awards and options are granted. An accelerated charge has been made in 2000 in
respect of the outstanding cost of providing shares for awards and options which became exercisable solely as a result of the merger.
Glaxo SmithKline
GlaxoSmithKline Wellcome Beecham
shares shares shares
Shares held for share award schemes 2000 1999 1999
Number of Ordinary Shares (000) 6,263 2,558 5,588
£m £m £m
Nominal value 2 1 –
Cost less amortisation – 18 12
Market value 118 45 44
Glaxo SmithKline
GlaxoSmithKline Wellcome Beecham
shares shares shares
Shares held for share option schemes 2000 1999 1999
Number of ordinary shares (000) 155,089 25,369 161,276
£m £m £m
Nominal value 39 6 10
Cost less amortisation 2,327 407 1,058
Market value 2,931 444 1,274
The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trusts.
Option pricing
For the purposes of valuing options to arrive at the stock-based compensation adjustment in the Reconciliation to US accounting principles
in Note37, the Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used. The assumptions used in the model for 2000 and 1999 are as follows:
Glaxo SmithKline
GlaxoSmithKline Wellcome Beecham
2000 1999 1999
Risk-free interest rate 5.6% 6.4% 5.9%
Dividend yield 2.1% 2.0% 1.6%
Volatility 36% 35% 42%
Expected lives of options granted under:
Share Option Schemes 5 years 5 years 7 years
Savings Related Share Option Scheme 3 years 3 years –112 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
34 Financial instruments and related disclosures Concentrations of credit risk and credit exposures of
financialinstruments
Policies
The Group does not believe it is exposed to major concentrations of
Discussion of the Group’s objectives and policies for the
credit risk. The Group is exposed to credit-related losses in the event
management offinancial instruments and associated risks is
of non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments, but
included under Treasury Policies in the Financial Review (page 60).
does not expect any counterparties to fail to meet their obligations.
The Group applies Board-approved limits to the amount of credit
Investments
exposure to any one counterparty and employs strict minimum
The Group holds a number of equity investments, frequently in
credit worthiness criteria as to the choice of counterparty.
entities where the Group has entered into research collaborations.
The Group seeks to realise the value in these investments, which
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
inpart the research collaboration helps to create, and therefore
The table on the page opposite presents the carrying amounts
certain of these investments are regarded as available for sale and
under UK GAAP and the fair values of the Group’s financial assets
are accounted foras current asset investments. For the purposes
and liabilities at 31st December 2000 and 31st December 1999.
ofUSGAAP all the investments are classified as available for sale.
Debtors and creditors due within one year have been excluded.
The Group has liquid investments, representing funds surplus to
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included
immediate operating requirements, which are accounted for as
atthe amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a
current asset investments. For the purposes of USGAAP the
current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced
investments are classified as available for sale.
or liquidationsale. The following methods and assumptions were
The proceeds from sale of investments classified as available for used to estimate thefair values shown above:
sale(under US GAAP) in the year ended 31stDecember 2000
• Equity investments – market value based on quoted market
were£31,825million. The proceeds include the roll-over of liquid
prices in the case of listed investments; market value by
funds on short-term deposit. The gross gains and losses reflected in
reference to quoted prices in the case of material unlisted
the consolidated profit and loss account in respect of investments
investments
classified as available for sale (under US GAAP) were £197 million
• Cash at bank – approximates to the carrying amount
and£nil respectively.
• Liquid investments – based on quoted market prices in the case
of marketable securities; approximates to the carrying amount
Foreign exchange risk management
inthe case of time deposits because of their short maturity
The Group has entered into forward foreign exchange contracts
• Short-term loans and overdrafts – approximates to the carrying
inorder to swap liquid assets and borrowings into the currencies
amount because of the short maturity of these instruments
required for Group purposes. At 31st December 2000 the Group
• Medium-term loans – market value based on quoted market
had outstanding contracts to sell or purchase foreign currency
prices in the case of the Eurobonds and other fixed rate
having a total notional principal amount of £10,531 million (at
borrowings; approximates to the carrying amount in the case
31stDecember 1999 – £7,093million). The majority of contracts
offloating rate bank loans and other loans
are for periods of 12 months or less.
• Forward exchange contracts – based on market prices and
At the end of the year the Group had a number of currency swaps exchange rates at the balance sheet date
inplace in respect of medium-term debt instruments. Two medium- • Currency swaps – based on market valuations at the balance
term notes issued in Japanese yen were swapped into floating rate sheetdate
US dollars. The 7.0 per cent US$350 million Euro note 2002 and • Interest rate instruments – based on market valuations at the
the 2.0 per cent CHF 250 million Bond 2004 were both swapped balance sheet date
into floating rate yen. Each of these swaps matures on a date close • Debtors and creditors – approximates to the carrying amount
to the maturity date of the underlying instrument. • Provisions – approximates to the carrying amount.
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies
Fair value of investments in own shares
which match investments in overseas Group assets are treated as
The Group had at 31st December 2000 investments in own shares
ahedge against the relevant net assets.
of £2,327million (1999 – £1,495 million) with a fair value of
£3,050 million (1999 – £1,807million). The difference between the
Interest rate risk management
carrying amount and the fair value represents gross unrealised gains
To manage the fixed/floating interest rate profile of debt, the Group
of £723 million. These investments are excluded from financial
had several interest rate swaps outstanding with commercial banks
instrument disclosure. The fair value is the market value based on
at 31st December 2000.
quoted market price.
The shares represent purchases by employee share ownership trusts
to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under employee
incentive schemes. The purchases are matched against options at
pre-determined exercise prices and the gain or loss to be recognised
is measured against exercise price rather than market value.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 113
34 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Classification and fair values of financial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the classification of financial assets and liabilities and provides a reconciliation to Group net debt in Note 26.
Short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded from financial assets and liabilities: provisions have been included where there is a
contractual obligation to settle in cash.
At 31.12.00 At 31.12.99
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
amount value amount value
£m £m £m £m
Net debt
Liquid investments 2,138 2,142 1,780 1,783
Cash at bank 1,283 1,283 579 579
Current asset financial instruments 3,421 3,425 2,359 2,362
Sterling notes and bonds (516) (571) (542) (591)
Yen loans swapped into sterling – – (400) (394)
Currency swap – – – (9)
(516) (571) (942) (994)
US dollar notes and bonds (334) (335) (619) (606)
Notes and bonds swapped into US dollars (656) (673) (1,087) (1,167)
Currency swaps – 17 – 80
(990) (991) (1,706) (1,693)
Notes and bonds swapped into yen (377) (335) (391) (309)
Currency swaps – (24) – (64)
(377) (359) (391) (373)
Other medium-term borrowings (89) (89) (77) (77)
Other short-term loans and overdrafts (2,060) (2,060) (1,600) (1,600)
Total borrowings (4,032) (4,070) (4,716) (4,737)
Interest rate swaps – – – (3)
Forward exchange contracts to purchase – 4 – 2
Forward exchange contracts to sell – 52 – 40
Total derivative instruments for management of net debt – 56 – 39
Total net debt (611) (589) (2,357) (2,336)
Fixed asset equity investments 133 164 192 322
Current asset equity investments 171 860 52 167
Other debtors due after 1 year 360 360 418 418
Other creditors due after 1 year (103) (103) (81) (81)
Provisions (209) (209) (220) (220)
Other foreign exchange derivatives 24 9 10 (2)
Auction rate preference shares of subsidiary (436) (436) (404) (404)
Money market preference shares of subsidiary (269) (269) (248) (248)
Flexible auction rate preference shares of subsidiary (334) (342) (309) (311)
Total non-equity minority interest (1,039) (1,047) (961) (963)
Total financial assets and liabilities (1,274) (555) (2,947) (2,695)
Total financial assets 4,109 4,874 3,031 3,311
Total financial liabilities (5,383) (5,429) (5,978) (6,006)
Currency swaps have been presented alongside the underlying principal instrument.
The difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of equity (fixed and current assets) and liquid investments represents gross
unrealised gains of £720million and £4 million respectively.114 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
34 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Currency and interest rate risk profile of financial liabilities
Financial liabilities after taking account of currency and interest rate swaps, are analysed below.
Total financial liabilities comprise total borrowings of £4,032 million (1999 – £4,716 million), other creditors due after one year of
£103million (1999– £81million), provisions of £209 million (1999 – £220 million) and non-equity minority interest preference shares
of£1,039 million (1999 – £961 million). Creditors due within one year have been excluded.
The benchmark rate for determining interest payments for all floating rate financial liabilities in the tables below is LIBOR.
Fixed rate Non-interest bearing
Average Average
At 31st December 2000 interest years for Floating Average
rate which rate rate years to Total
Currency £m % is fixed £m £m maturity £m
US dollars 668 6.1 3.2 2,486 266 2.4 3,420
Sterling 498 8.8 4.9 – 23 2.9 521
Euro 3 5.3 0.4 425 10 2.5 438
Japanese yen 494 0.6 2.3 211 35 3.5 740
Other currencies 46 9.5 2.4 209 9 1.1 264
1,709 5.4 2.6 3,331 343 2.5 5,383
Fixed rate Non-interest bearing
Average Average
At 31st December 1999 interest years for Floating Average
rate which rate rate years to Total
Currency £m % is fixed £m £m maturity £m
US dollars 928 6.3 3.0 1,781 257 2.3 2,966
Sterling 497 8.8 5.9 591 21 1.1 1,109
Euro 350 2.8 0.2 418 5 1.1 773
Japanese yen 563 0.7 3.1 167 7 1.1 737
Other currencies – 382 11 1.1 393
2,338 5.0 3.2 3,339 301 2.1 5,978
Currency and interest rate risk profile of financial assets
Total financial assets comprise fixed asset equity investments of £133 million (1999 – £192 million), current asset equity investments
of £171 million (1999 – £52 million), liquid investments of £2,138 million (1999 – £1,780 million), cash at bank of £1,283 million
(1999 – £579 million), and debtors due after one year of £360million (1999 – £418 million), but exclude foreign exchange derivatives of
£24 million (1999 – £10 million). Debtors due within one year have been excluded.
At 31st December 2000 Fixed Floating Non-interest
rate rate bearing Total
Currency £m £m £m £m
US dollars 354 1,588 360 2,302
Sterling 58 1,108 48 1,214
Euro 84 147 53 284
Japanese yen 3 – 13 16
Other currencies 66 165 38 269
565 3,008 512 4,085
At 31st December 1999 Fixed Floating Non-interest
rate rate bearing Total
Currency £m £m £m £m
US dollars 31 1,466 394 1,891
Sterling 211 135 144 490
Euro – 171 29 200
Japanese yen – 5 13 18
Other currencies 7 333 82 422
249 2,110 662 3,021Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 115
34 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Currency exposure of net monetary assets/(liabilities)
The Group’s currency exposures that give rise to net currency gains and losses that are recognised in the profit and loss account arise
principally in companies with sterling functional currency. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in overseas functional currency,
andborrowings designated as a hedge against overseas net assets, are excluded from the table below.
At 31stDecember 2000
Functional currency of Group operation
Net monetary assets/(liabilities)
Sterling US$ Euro Yen Other Total
held in non-functional currency £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling – (50) (50) (1) (30) (131)
US dollars 170 – 3 (1) 19 191
Euro 7 10 – – 2 19
Japanese yen (27) 1 (1) – – (27)
Other (39) 10 (9) – – (38)
111 (29) (57) (2) (9) 14
At 31stDecember 1999
Functional currency of Group operation
Net monetary assets/(liabilities)
Sterling US$ Euro Yen Other Total
held in non-functional currency £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling – (133) (2) – (34) (169)
US dollars 273 – 46 (3) (14) 302
Euro 53 (10) – – 1 44
Japanese yen 26 – – – (2) 24
Other 54 (7) 24 – – 71
406 (150) 68 (3) (49) 272
Non-equity
Finance minority Total Total
Debt leases interests Other 2000 1999
Maturity of financial liabilities £m £m £m £m £m £m
Within one year or on demand 2,279 2 872 8 3,161 3,471
Between one and two years 633 13 – 58 704 502
Between two and five years 1,082 1 167 197 1,447 1,092
After five years 22 – – 49 71 913
4,016 16 1,039 312 5,383 5,978
2000
Gains Losses Net
Hedges £m £m £m
Unrecognised gains and losses at the beginning of the year 184 (150) 34
Gains and losses arising in previous years and
recognised in the year (130) 80 (50)
Gains and losses arising before the beginning of the
year and still unrecognised at the end of the year 54 (70) (16)
Unrecognised gains and losses arising in the year 99 (49) 50
Total unrecognised gains and losses at the end of the year 153 (119) 34
Expected to be recognised within one year 113 (65) 48
Expected to be recognised after one year 40 (54) (14)
Total unrecognised gains and losses at the end of the year 153 (119) 34
Committed facilities
The Group has committed facilities, to back up the commercial paper programme, of £940 million (1999 – £447 million) of 364 days
duration renewable annually.116 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
35 Employee costs 2000 1999 1998
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 3,578 3,408 3,193
Social security costs 383 363 338
Pension and other post-retirement costs 244 218 211
Cost of share-based incentive plans 197 82 49
Severance costs arising from integration and restructuring activities 82 63 13
Pension and other post-retirement costs arising from integration 3 – –
4,487 4,134 3,804
The Group provides benefits to employees, commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including, in some markets, healthcare
insurance, subsidised car schemes, personal assurance.
2000 1999 1998
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year Number Number Number
Manufacturing 36,177 41,796 44,231
Selling, general and administration 55,365 55,894 55,459
Research and development 16,659 16,336 15,544
108,201 114,026 115,234
The numbers of Group employees at the end of each financial year are given in the Financial record (page 152).
2000 1999 1998
Pension and other post-retirement costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 16 9 12
US pension schemes 68 72 74
Other overseas pensions schemes 105 88 77
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 48 41 40
Post-employment costs 7 8 8
244 218 211
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid schemes 82 81 83
Unfunded defined benefit schemes 10 9 10
Defined contribution schemes 97 79 70
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 48 41 40
Post-employment costs 7 8 8
244 218 211
Pension and other post-retirement costs arising from integration 3 – –
Pensions
Group undertakings operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees.
Thesearrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be provided
by State schemes; or by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds arising from
contributions paid in respect of each employee; or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based on employee
pensionable remuneration and length ofservice. Some defined benefit schemes now also include defined contribution sections and
aredescribed as ‘hybrid’ schemes in the table.
In the majority of cases the contributions to defined benefit schemes are determined in accordance with the advice of independent,
professionally qualified actuaries. Formal, independent, actuarial valuations of the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally at
least every three years. Theassets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts or are insured. Pension costs for
accounting purposes have been assessed in accordance with independent actuarial advice, generally using the projected unit method and
by spreading surpluses or deficits over the average expected remaining service lives of the respective memberships.
In certain countries pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some of which are under a scheme administered by a trustee
company. Whereassets are not held with the specific purpose of matching the liabilities of unfunded schemes, a provision is included
within provisions for pensions and other post-retirement benefits. The charge against profits in respect of these benefits is the aggregate
ofthe increase over the year intheassessed liabilities for members still in service and the net movement in provisions set up for pensions
inpayment. Liabilities are generally assessed annually in accordance with the advice of independent actuaries.
Throughout 2000 the pension arrangements of Glaxo Wellcome companies and SmithKline Beecham companies were operated separately.
This continues to be the case to date in 2001. Accordingly the information given on the next page deals with each set of arrangements
separately.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 117
35 Employee costs continued
Glaxo Wellcome
The market value of the assets of Glaxo Wellcome’s funded defined benefit pension funds at the date of the latest actuarial valuations was
sufficient to cover 125per cent (1999 – 129 per cent) of the benefits that had accrued to members after allowing for future salary
andpension increases; their market value was £4,284 million (1999 – £3,031 million).
The UK defined benefit pension schemes account for approximately 80 per cent of the Group’s plans in asset valuation and projected
benefit terms and the US defined benefit pension schemes account for approximately 13 per cent of the Group’s plans in asset valuation
and projected benefit terms. The relevant assumptions used in calculating the pension costs for accounting purposes are as follows:
UK USA
2000 1999 2000 1999
% pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 4.0 6.1 6.0 5.0
Discount rate 8.0 8.7 6.0 8.0
Expected long-term rate of return on investments 8.0 8.7 8.0 8.0
Additional assumptions in respect of the UK schemes used were: increases in pensions 2.5 per cent (1999 – 4.0 per cent) and UK equity
dividend growth 5.0 per cent (1999 – 4.0 per cent).
These assumptions resulted in a regular cost for the UK pension arrangements of £54 million, which reduced to a zero pension cost for the
accounts, after allowance was made for spreading the surplus disclosed as a level percentage of salary over the expected future working
lifetime of the existing members (some 11 years). The regular and accounting costs for the US schemes were £22 million.
The most recent triennial actuarial valuations of the UK schemes for funding purposes were carried out as at 31stMarch 2000. At that date
the assets of the schemes represented 133 per cent of the actuarial value of all benefits accrued to members as at that date after allowing
for future salary and pension increases. The Trustees of the UK pension schemes agreed, at the company’s request, to grant various benefit
improvements, which included a five per cent enhancement in the entitlement of all beneficiaries. After allowance is made for these
improvements, the funding level has fallen to 123%. Following the valuations, company contributions to the schemes remain suspended
at least until the next formal valuation and are expected to remain suspended beyond. Thetotal market value of the assets held by the
schemes at 31st March 2000 was £3,670 million.
The most recent actuarial valuations of the Group’s USfunded schemes were carried out in 2000. At that date the market value of the
schemes’ assets was £445 million. The value of these assets represented 136 per cent of the actuarial value of all benefits accrued to
members at that date after allowing for future salary increases.
SmithKline Beecham
The UK and US deferred benefit and hybrid schemes covered some 41 per cent of total SmithKline Beecham employees. The relevant
assumptions used in calculating the pension costs for accounting purposes are as follows:
UK USA
2000 1999 2000 1999
% pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 4.8 6.5 5.5 5.5
Discount rate 8.5 10.0 9.5 9.5
Expected long-term rate of return on investments 8.5 10.0 9.5 9.5
The regular cost for the UK scheme in 2000 was £14 million, which reduced to an accounting cost of £10 million after allowance was
made for the spreading of the surplus over the expected future working lifetime of current employees in the scheme. The latest valuation
was carried out at 31st December 1999 and at that date the actuarial value of scheme assets represented 105 per cent of the actuarial
value of the accrued service liabilities. The total market value of assets held by the scheme at 31st December 1999 was £1,077 million.
The regular cost for the US scheme in 2000 was £26 million, which reduced to an accounting cost of £9 million after allowance was made
for the spreading of the surplus over the expected future working lifetime of current employees in the scheme. The latest valuation was
carried out at 1st January 2000 and at that date the actuarial value of scheme assets represented 104 per cent of the actuarial value of
theaccrued service liabilities. The total market value of assets held by the scheme at 1st January 2000 was £1,267 million.118 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
36 Directors’ remuneration
GlaxoSmithKline’s policy on Directors’ remuneration, which will be effective for the financial year 2001, together with details of the
remuneration received by Directors of Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc in 2000, are given in the Remuneration report.
The Directors were appointed to the Board of the company on 23rd May 2000. They received no remuneration from GlaxoSmithKline plc
in2000, but continued to be remunerated by Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc for their services to those companies.
Themergerbetween Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham completed on 27th December 2000, at which point Glaxo Wellcome and
SmithKline Beecham became subsidiaries of GlaxoSmithKline.
Statutory disclosures in respect of Directors’ remuneration attributable to Directors of GlaxoSmithKline plc in 2000, in relation to their
servicesto the company and its subsidiaries, from 27th to 31st December 2000, are set out below.
2000
Directors’ compensation £000
Salary and fees 44
Benefits and other emoluments 277
Bonus 30
Total compensation 351
From date of appointment to 31st December 2000
Benefits
Salary and and other
fees emoluments Bonus Total
Emoluments by individual Director £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive Directors
Dr J P Garnier 11 1 16 28
Mr J D Coombe 7 – 4 11
18 1 20 39
Non-Executive Directors
Sir Richard Sykes 14 – 10 24
Sir Roger Hurn 1 – – 1
Sir Peter Walters 4 275 – 279
Mr P A Allaire 1 – – 1
Dr M Barzach – 1 – 1
Mr D C Bonham – – – –
Sir Christopher Hogg 1 – – 1
Mr P J D Job – – – –
Mr J H McArthur 1 – – 1
Mr D F McHenry 1 – – 1
Sir Ian Prosser 1 – – 1
Dr R Schmitz – – – –
Dr L Shapiro 1 – – 1
Mr J A Young 1 – – 1
26 276 10 312
Total compensation 44 277 30 351Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 119
36 Directors’ remuneration continued
Directors’ interests
Following the completion of the mergers of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham on 27th December 2000 all outstanding Glaxo
Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham shares and ADSs were converted into GlaxoSmithKline shares and ADSs on the following basis:
• 1 GlaxoSmithKline share for each Glaxo Wellcome share and 1 GlaxoSmithKline ADS for each Glaxo Wellcome ADS.
• 0.4552 GlaxoSmithKline shares for each SmithKline Beecham share and 1.138 GlaxoSmithKline ADSs for each SmithKline Beecham ADS.
As a result Directors’ interests as at 31st December 2000 and as at 23rd May 2000, the date of appointment of the Directors to the Board
of GlaxoSmithKline plc, have been converted into GlaxoSmithKline shares and ADSs at the relevant merger ratios. The following beneficial
interests of the Directors of the company are shown in the register maintained by the company in accordance with the Companies Act 1985:
31 December Appointment 31 December Appointment
2000 date 2000 date
Note Shares Shares ADSs ADSs
Dr J P Garnier – – 52,867 52,579
Mr J D Coombe ab 164,203 150,269 – –
Sir Richard Sykes ac 538,665 584,308 – –
Sir Roger Hurn 10,539 10,539 – –
Sir Peter Walters 31,486 30,760 – –
Mr P A Allaire – – 6,148 11,835
Dr M Barzach 812 812 – –
Mr D C Bonham 8,445 8,445 – –
Sir Christopher Hogg 5,128 5,090 – –
Mr P J D Job 2,003 1,738 – –
Mr J H McArthur – – 3,558 2,901
Mr D F McHenry d – – 6,043 4,204
Sir Ian Prosser 2,321 2,316 – –
Dr R Schmitz – – 3,752 3,752
Dr L Shapiro 1,372 1,183 1,174 910
Mr J A Young 5,144 4,052 7,286 7,283
A GlaxoSmithKline ADS represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares.
Interests in Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham shares and ADSs as at appointment date have been restated as interests in
GlaxoSmithKline shares and ADSs.
a Interest as at appointment date includes deposited shares under the Glaxo Wellcome Annual Incentive Plan.
b Includes a non-beneficial interest in trusts which hold 20,396 Shares (appointment date – 19,402).
c Includes a non-beneficial interest in trusts which hold 36,612 Shares (appointment date – 36,612).
d In addition to the interests shown above, Mr McHenry has interests in a deferred fees plan relating to the period during which
MrMcHenry was a Director of SmithKline Beckman prior to the merger with Beecham Group in 1989. The deferred fees are now
indexed to the total return on GlaxoSmithKline shares and are payable over seven years following Mr McHenry’s retirement. The total
accumulated value of deferred fees on 31st December 2000 (restated to reflect the merger) was equivalent to 20,890 GlaxoSmithKline
ADSs and has been fully provided for.
Share options ADS
ADS options at
options appointment
Options over GlaxoSmithKline ADSs at 31.12.00 date
Dr JP Garnier 2,074,813 2,074,813
Share
Share options at
options appointment
Options over GlaxoSmithKline shares at 31.12.00 date
Mr J D Coombe 287,948 287,948
Sir Richard Sykes 634,949 670,396
Options outstanding as at appointment date have been restated as options over GlaxoSmithKline shares and ADSs.120 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation to USaccounting principles Accordingly, the balance sheets presented represent the
consolidated balance sheet of Glaxo Wellcome, the accounting
The financial statements, analyses and reconciliations presented in
acquirer under USGAAP, as at 31st December 1999 and of
this note (pages 121 to 135) represent the financial information
GlaxoSmithKline as at 31stDecember 2000, prepared under
which would be required if US Generally Accepted Accounting
USGAAP. The acquisition of SmithKline Beecham is accounted for
Principles (GAAP) had been applied instead of UKGAAP.
under the purchase method of accounting as at 27th December
The most significant difference between US and UK GAAP is that, 2000 and the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities are
under UKGAAP, the combination of Glaxo Wellcome plc and included in the balance sheet at 31st December 2000.
SmithKline Beecham plc has been accounted for as a merger
The reconciliation of the consolidated income statements and the
(pooling of interest) in accordance with UK Financial Reporting
consolidated statements of comprehensive income and changes in
Standard 6, while, under USGAAP, this transaction is accounted for
shareholder equity for the three years ended 31st December 2000,
as a purchase business combination with Glaxo Wellcome acquiring
1999 and 1998 correspondingly reflect the purchase method of
SmithKline Beecham.
accounting for theacquisition of SmithKline Beecham by Glaxo
GlaxoSmithKline plc was formed to give effect to a Scheme of Wellcome. The income statement has been presented in a US
Arrangement for the merger of Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline GAAP format and therefore certain exceptional items such as
Beecham plc. The Scheme of Arrangement became effective on product divestments, merger integration costs and the write-off of
27thDecember 2000, at which point GlaxoSmithKline plc acquired in-process research and development have been classified within
the whole of the issued share capital of Glaxo Wellcome plc and operating profit.
SmithKline Beecham plc in exchange for shares in GlaxoSmithKline
A consolidated statement of cash flows under USGAAP and in
plc. Upon completion of the merger the former shareholders of
USGAAPformat is also presented.
Glaxo Wellcome held approximately 58.75 per cent and the former
shareholders of SmithKline Beecham held approximately 41.25 per These financial statements reflect both the purchase method of
cent of the issued ordinary share capital of GlaxoSmithKline plc, accounting for the combination of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline
reflecting the relative stock market valuation of the two companies Beecham and also other material adjustments which would be
in the months preceding the announcement of the merger on required if USGAAP had been applied instead of UKGAAP for
17thJanuary 2000. theperiods presented. A summary of the purchase accounting
adjustments and of other USGAAP adjustments is provided in the
As the combination of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham is
reconciliations of profit attributable to shareholders and of equity
accounted for as a merger under UKGAAP, the financial statements
shareholders’ funds from UK to USGAAP.
of GlaxoSmithKline under UKGAAP represent the combined
financial statements of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
on a historical basis for all periods presented.
Under US GAAP, this business combination did not qualify for
pooling of interests accounting and Glaxo Wellcome was
determined to be the accounting acquirer in a purchase acquisition
dated 27thDecember 2000. Under US GAAP the financial
statements of GlaxoSmithKline prior to the merger are therefore
those of Glaxo Wellcome.
In view of the proximity of the merger date to the financial year end
date, and the relative insignificance of any business activity between
27th December 2000 and 31st December 2000, the accounting
date of the acquisition has for practical purposes been taken as
31st December 2000.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 121
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2000 1999
Consolidated balance sheet underUS GAAP £m £m
Assets
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 1,379 246
Marketable securities 3,070 1,838
Accounts and notes receivable 3,336 1,682
Inventories 2,544 1,537
Prepaid expenses 814 320
Deferred income taxes 722 359
Total current assets 11,865 5,982
Goodwill 18,796 3,078
Intangible assets 26,161 729
Property, plant and equipment 6,832 3,717
Investments in affiliates 1,126 58
Other assets 360 337
Total assets 65,140 13,901
Liabilities and Shareholders’ equity
Current liabilities
Cash overdrafts 191 259
Accounts payable 812 367
Short-term borrowings and capital lease obligations 2,090 1,991
Income taxes 2,070 816
Other accrued liabilities 2,711 1,034
Total current liabilities 7,874 4,467
Long-term borrowings and capital lease obligations 1,751 1,260
Other liabilities 1,447 556
Deferred income taxes 7,829 337
Total liabilities 18,901 6,620
Minority interest 1,244 51
Contingencies and commitments – Notes 25 and 27
Shareholders’ equity
Common stock, £0.25 per share par value; 9,999,800,000 (2000) and 4,431,000,000 (1999) shares authorised;
6,225,662,174 (2000) and 3,640,804,312 (1999) shares issued 1,556 910
Redeemable preference shares, £1.00 per share par value; 50,000 shares authorised; 50,000 shares issued – –
Additional paid-in capital 46,431 1,249
Retained (deficit)/earnings (308) 5,496
Treasury stock (2,684) (425)
Total shareholders’ equity 44,995 7,230
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 65,140 13,901122 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 123
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2000 1999 1998
Less SmithKline Less SmithKline Less SmithKline
Glaxo- Beecham Glaxo- Glaxo- Beecham Glaxo- Glaxo- Beecham Glaxo-
SmithKline pre-acquisition US GAAP SmithKline SmithKline pre-acquisition US GAAP SmithKline SmithKline pre-acquisition US GAAP SmithKline
(UK GAAP) (UK GAAP) adjustments (US GAAP) (UK GAAP) (UK GAAP) adjustments (US GAAP) (UK GAAP) (UK GAAP) adjustments (US GAAP)
Reconciliation of consolidated income statement £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenues 18,079 (8,520) – 9,559 16,796 (8,306) – 8,490 16,002 (8,019) – 7,983
Cost of sales (3,962) 1,802 (32) (2,192) (4,334) 2,467 (54) (1,921) (3,968) 2,423 (29) (1,574)
Gross profit 14,117 (6,718) (32) 7,367 12,462 (5,839) (54) 6,569 12,034 (5,596) (29) 6,409
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (7,136) 3,578 (65) (3,623) (6,246) 3,225 (88) (3,109) (5,876) 3,188 (9) (2,697)
Research and development expenditure (2,526) 1,158 (28) (1,396) (2,286) 1,017 (29) (1,298) (2,073) 910 (3) (1,166)
Trading profit 4,455 (1,982) (125) 2,348 3,930 (1,597) (171) 2,162 4,085 (1,498) (41) 2,546
Other operating income/(expense) 274 (23) – 251 413 (121) – 292 221 (125) – 96
Amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets – – (725) (725) – – (820) (820) – – (826) (826)
Write-off in-process R&D acquired – – (6,324) (6,324) – – – – – – – –
Product divestments 1,416 (1,422) – (6) – – – – – – – –
Merger transaction costs (121) 55 66 – – – – – – – – –
Operating profit 6,024 (3,372) (7,108) (4,456) 4,343 (1,718) (991) 1,634 4,306 (1,623) (867) 1,816
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures 57 (57) – – 7 (4) – 3 22 – – 22
and associated undertakings
Profit on disposal of interest in associate 144 – – 144 39 – – 39 – – – –
Profit on dissolution of joint venture – – – – – – – – 57 – – 57
Disposal of businesses:
Provision for loss on disposal – – – – – – – – (629) 629 – –
Loss on disposal (14) 14 – – (635) 635 – – – – – –
Utilisation of provision – – – – 644 (644) – – – – – –
Profit before interest 6,211 (3,415) (7,108) (4,312) 4,398 (1,731) (991) 1,676 3,756 (994) (867) 1,895
Net interest expense (182) 95 – (87) (162) 70 – (92) (192) 101 – (91)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 6,029 (3,320) (7,108) (4,399) 4,236 (1,661) (991) 1,584 3,564 (893) (867) 1,804
Taxation (1,699) 928 (37) (808) (1,218) 472 93 (653) (977) 162 41 (774)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 4,330 (2,392) (7,145) (5,207) 3,018 (1,189) (898) 931 2,587 (731) (826) 1,030
Minority interests (120) 99 – (21) (110) 92 – (18) (102) 82 – (20)
Preference share dividends (56) 56 – – (49) 49 – – (50) 50 – –
Earnings (Profit attributable to shareholders)/Net (loss)/income 4,154 (2,237) (7,145) (5,228) 2,859 (1,048) (898) 913 2,435 (599) (826) 1,010
Basic earnings per Ordinary Share of 25p under US GAAP (pence) (145.6)p 25.2p 28.1p
Diluted earnings per Ordinary Share of 25p under US GAAP (pence) (145.6)p 25.1p 27.8p
Basic earnings per ADS under USGAAP ($) $4.43 $0.82 $0.93
Diluted earnings per ADS under US GAAP($) $4.43 $0.81 $0.92
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and
2000 1999 1998
changes in shareholders’ equity under USGAAP £m £m £m
Shareholders’ equity at beginning of year 7,230 8,007 7,792
Net (loss)/income (5,228) 913 1,010
Exchange movements on overseas net assets 97 (115) 1
Unrealised gains on equity investments, net of tax 356 (110) 40
Unrealised gains on liquid investments, net of tax 1 (5) 3
UK tax on exchange movements (9) – –
Total comprehensive income (4,783) 683 1,054
Dividends (1,334) (1,305) (1,255)
Ordinary Shares issued 121 104 356
Employee Share Ownership Plan (218) (211) 57
Ordinary Shares issued to acquire SmithKline Beecham 43,919 – –
Other 60 (48) 3
Shareholders’ equity at end of year 44,995 7,230 8,007124 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2000 1999 1998
Consolidated statement of cash flows under USGAAP £m £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Net (loss)/income (5,228) 913 1,010
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation 427 360 358
Amortisation 735 829 832
Write-off in-process R&D acquired 6,324 – –
Impairment 47 68 –
Gain on sale of fixed assets and other productive assets (152) (132) (31)
Deferred taxes 28 (93) (41)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions:
Decrease/(increase) in inventory 21 (391) (297)
Increase in trade and other debtors (281) (125) (269)
Increase in trade and other creditors 453 85 233
Increase/(decrease) in pension and other provisions 162 347 (133)
Other – 7 –
Net cash provided by operating activities 2,536 1,868 1,662
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of fixed assets (416) (607) (452)
Acquisition of intangible assets (76) – –
Acquisition of SmithKline Beecham – cash received on acquisition 1,129 – –
Acquisition of other new businesses – net of cash acquired (24) (67) (156)
Proceeds from disposition of fixed assets and businesses 12 79 39
Increase in liquid investments (235) (35) (211)
Decrease/(increase) in equity investments 194 (13) 3
Net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities 584 (643) (777)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from additional borrowings – 110 5
Reduction in debt (3) (9) (63)
Purchase of treasury stock (471) (421) (10)
Dividends (1,334) (1,305) (1,255)
Net (repayment of)/increase in short-term loans (193) 150 117
Net (repayment of)/increase in cash overdrafts (121) 40 65
Issue of ordinary share capital 121 104 284
Other 13 117 (4)
Net cash used in financing activities (1,988) (1,214) (861)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,132 11 24
Exchange rate movements 1 (5) 1
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 246 240 215
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 1,379 246 240
Supplemental cash flow information
Cash paid during the year for:
Interest 235 198 200
Income taxes 635 672 626
Non-cash investing and financing activities
The Group acquired all the outstanding shares of SmithKline Beecham in exchange for shares of
GlaxoSmithKline. In conjunction with the acquisition, liabilities were assumed as follows:
Fair value of assets acquired 57,158
Fair value of shares issued 43,919
Fair value of liabilities assumed 13,239Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 125
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
The following is a summary of the material adjustments to profit and shareholders’ funds which would be required if US GAAP had been
applied instead of UK GAAP. These adjustments have been reflected in the balance sheet and income statements presented in accordance
with USGAAP.
2000 1999 1998
Profit £m £m £m
Profit attributable to shareholders under UK GAAP 4,154 2,859 2,435
Less: SmithKline Beecham’s pre-acquisition profit attributable to
shareholders under UK GAAP and merger alignment adjustments (2,237) (1,048) (599)
USGAAP adjustments:
Write-off of SmithKline Beecham in-process R&D acquired (6,324) – –
Capitalised interest 15 15 6
Computer software 13 (5) (29)
Amortisation of goodwill (559) (554) (557)
Amortisation of intangible assets (166) (266) (269)
Pensions 75 22 41
Stock-based compensation (263) (203) (59)
Provision against ESOT shares 26 – –
Merger transaction costs 66 – –
Deferred taxation 22 102 46
Deferred tax effect of US GAAP adjustments (50) (9) (5)
Net (loss)/income under US GAAP (5,228) 913 1,010
2000 1999
Equity shareholders’ funds £m £m
Equity shareholders’ funds under UK GAAP 7,711 5,464
Less: SmithKline Beecham’s equity shareholders’ funds under UK GAAP
and merger alignment adjustments (3,798) (2,322)
Effect of acquisition of SmithKline Beecham under purchase accounting:
Inventory 267 –
Tangible fixed assets 45 –
Investments 1,042 –
Pension assets 115 –
Workforce 483 –
Product rights 24,382 –
Goodwill 16,229 –
Deferred tax on purchase price adjustment (7,644) –
SmithKline Beecham’s UKGAAP pre-acquisition net assets (less goodwill) 3,782 –
US GAAP adjustments:
Capitalised interest 136 31
Computer software (21) (34)
Goodwill on Wellcome acquisition – Cost £5,606 million (1999 – £5,568 million);
amortisation £3,193 million (1999 – £2,634 million) 2,413 2,934
Other intangible assets 373 729
Unrealised gains on marketable securities 724 118
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 190 155
Employee Share Ownership Trust (2,327) (425)
Restructuring costs 35 –
Foreign currency hedging (15) –
Ordinary dividends 1,234 796
Deferred taxation (80) (156)
Deferred tax effect of US GAAP adjustments (281) (60)
Shareholders’ equity under US GAAP 44,995 7,230126 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued (d)The fair value attributed to pension obligations reflects the
recognition of previously unrecognised actuarial gains/losses,
Acquisition of SmithKline Beecham prior service costs and transition amounts. The amounts recognised
Under US GAAP, the financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline prior tothe are based on actuarial assessments at the acquisitiondate.
merger are those of Glaxo Wellcome, the US GAAP accounting acquirer.
(e)The fair value attributed to other intangible assets relates
The acquisition of SmithKline Beecham is accounted for under the
primarily to management’s estimate of the value of product
purchase method as of the date of the merger, 27thDecember 2000.
rights (inclusive of their respective patents and trademarks)
onexisting products and of the assembled SmithKline Beecham
Purchase accounting adjustments
workforce. Thefair value of the product rights has been
In order to determine the proper allocation of purchase price related
determined based on a discounted net future cash flow analysis
to the acquired assets of SmithKline Beecham under US GAAP
of its current approved product portfolio which includes all
purchase accounting, the cost of acquisition is calculated using the
existing approved products within the pharmaceutical
market value of the shares issued, the fair value of vested options
therapeutic areas and consumer healthcare product portfolios.
exchanged and direct external acquisition costs and then allocated
Any supplemental products in the development process which
to the fair value of net assets acquired. As a result of the fair value
build upon existing chemical entities within existing areas
exercise, increases in the values of SmithKline Beecham’s inventory,
andwhich are not subject to separate US Food and Drug
tangible fixed assets, investments and pension obligations were
Administration approval were also included. Management has
recognised and fair market values attributed to their other intangible
based the estimates of the weighted average useful life of the
assets, mainly product rights (inclusive of patents and trademarks),
product rights on the future period over which the substantial
assembled SmithKline Beecham workforce and in-process research
majority of the estimated net future cash flow value is expected
and development, together with appropriate deferred taxation
to be realised (approximately 15 years in the aggregate). The fair
effects. The difference between the cost of acquisition and the fair
value of the assembled workforce is being amortised over an 11 year
value of the assets and liabilities of SmithKline Beecham has been
period based on SmithKline Beecham’s historical turnover rate.
recorded asgoodwill. The amount allocated to in-process research
and development is required under US GAAP to be expensed (f) The amount of total consideration allocated to SmithKline
immediately in thefirst reporting period after the business Beecham’s in-process research and development projects (IPR&D)
combination, which for GlaxoSmithKline was the period ended has been estimated by SmithKline Beecham using current
31stDecember 2000. Fair value adjustments to the recorded estimates of the status and prospects of its R&D portfolio as
amount of inventory will be expensed in the period the inventory contained in SmithKline Beecham’s strategic plans. The IPR&D
will be utilised and additional amortisation and depreciation will includes only those identified projects that have advanced to a stage
berecorded in respect of the fair value adjustments to tangible and of development where management believes reasonable estimates
intangible assets and the resulting goodwill over the periods of their of projected cash flows can be prepared. This does not include
respective economic useful lives. efforts associated withbasic discovery and the portfolio of gene
patents. The reported IPR&D value is not intended to reflect the
The adjustments to the assets and liabilities of SmithKline Beecham
present value of all development activities currentlyunderway at
to reflect the fair values and allocation of the excess purchase
SmithKline Beecham. The IPR&D projects involve R&D efforts
consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired, based
related to a new product and projects involving supplemental
onmanagement best estimates of fair value, are summarised in
new drug application on existing products or product extension
thetable opposite and discussed below:
development activity that would require FDA approval. The value
(a)The total assumed purchase consideration was calculated allocated to the IPR&D was determined utilising a risk adjusted
bymultiplying the number of GlaxoSmithKline shares issued income approach that included earnings discounted by the
toSmithKline Beecham’s shareholders for all outstanding appropriate cost of capital for the investment. Estimates of
SmithKline Beecham shares by the average fair value of Glaxo future cash flows related to individual IPR&D projects were based
Wellcome securities. The average fair value of Glaxo Wellcome on existing estimates of revenues and contribution margin for
securities was calculated over a period of four days prior to and the project. IPR&D is written off on acquisition in accordance
subsequent to theannouncement of the merger on 17th with US GAAP purchase accounting.
January 2000. The total assumed purchase consideration also
(g)Deferred taxes have been computed on the excess of fair value
included the fair value of SmithKline Beecham vested options
over book value, other than for goodwill and in-process research
exchanged for vested options in GlaxoSmithKline. The total
and development, using the applicable weighted average
number of SmithKline Beecham vested options was multiplied
statutory tax rates.
bythe respective fair value of each of the ordinary shares and
ADR plans determined at 17thJanuary 2000. (h)Goodwill represents the remainder of unallocated purchase
consideration. Goodwill is being amortised over its expected
(b)The increase in fair value of inventory and fixed assets was
economic life of20 years. As GlaxoSmithKline finalises its
determined based on the difference between the carrying value
merger-related restructuring plans during 2001 it anticipates
and the market value of these assets.
thatadditional adjustments will be made to goodwill as
(c)The market value of investments has been included in the book additional liabilities are recorded for the restructuring of
value of SmithKline Beecham’s net assets under US GAAP. The theformer SmithKline Beecham’s operations.
increase in investments relates to increases in the fair market
value of non-marketable securities at 31st December 2000.
Included inthis amount are increases to SmithKline Beecham’s
equity investments. These equity investments have been measured
at fair value and any excess of the fair value over the underlying
tangible assets and liabilities has been recognised as goodwill
within investments. This goodwill will be amortised over 20 years.Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 127
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
Purchase accounting adjustments £m
Total assumed purchase consideration for outstanding shares (a) 43,919
Costs and fees of transaction 66
Less:
Book value of SmithKline Beecham net assets – US GAAP (less goodwill) 2,742
Estimated excess fair value of inventory (b) 267
Estimated excess fair value of tangible fixed assets (b) 45
Estimated excess fair value of investments (c) 1,042
Estimated excess fair value of pension asset (d) 115
Estimated fair value attributed to other intangible assets (e) 24,382
Estimated fair value attributed to workforce (e) 483
Estimated fair value attributed of in-process R&D projects (f) 6,324
Deferred tax liabilities related to purchase price adjustments (g) (7,644)
Goodwill (h) 16,229
Acquisition of SmithKline Beecham – pro forma results (unaudited)
The following table reflects the results of operations on a US GAAP pro forma basis as if the 2000 acquisition of SmithKline Beecham had
been completed on 1st January 1999. The pro forma results of operations include amortisation of acquired goodwill and intangibles,
butdonot include the write-off of in-process R&D orinventory adjustments.
2000 1999
£m £m
Net sales 18,079 16,796
Earnings before interest, income taxes and minority interest 2,842 810
Net income/(loss) 671 (486)
pence pence
Earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share 10.9 (7.9)
Diluted earnings/(loss) per Ordinary Share 10.8 (7.9)
$ $
Earnings/(loss) per ADS 0.33 (0.26)
Diluted earnings/(loss) per ADS 0.33 (0.26)
The pro forma financial information is not necessarily indicative of theoperating results that would have occurred had the acquisition been
consummated as of the dates indicated, nor is it necessarily indicative of future operating results.128 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued Marketable securities
Marketable securities consist primarily of equity securities and
Summary of material differences between UK and US GAAP certain other liquid investments. Under UKGAAP these securities
are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Under US
Capitalised interest
GAAP these securities are available for sale under Statement of
Under UK GAAP, the Group does not capitalise interest. USGAAP
Financial Accounting Standard No 115 (FAS 115) ‘Accounting for
requires interest incurred as part of the cost of constructing fixed
certain investments in debt and equity securities’ and are carried at
assets to be capitalised and amortised over the life of the asset.
fair value, with the unrealised gains and losses, net of tax, reported
Computer software as a separate component of shareholders’ equity.
Under UK GAAP, the company capitalises costs incurred in acquiring
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
and developing computer software for internal use where the
The key differences between UK and USGAAP in relation to
software supports a significant business system and the expenditure
defined benefit pension plans are:
leads to the creation of a durable asset. For US GAAP, the company
applies SOP 98-1 ‘Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software • under UKGAAP the effect of variations in cost can be
Developed or Obtained for Internal Use’ which restricts the accumulated at successive valuations and amortised on an
categories of costs which can be capitalised. aggregate basis. Under US GAAP the amortisation of the
transition asset and the costs of past service benefit
Goodwill and intangible fixed assets
improvements are separately tracked: experience gains/losses are
Beginning in 1998 the company changed its accounting policy
dealt with on an aggregate basis but amortised only if outside a
forgoodwill and intangible assets under UKGAAP in respect of
10 per cent corridor.
acquisitions from 1998, such that no material difference will exist
• UK GAAP allows measurements of plan assets and liabilities to
between UK and USGAAP. A difference continues to exist in
be based on the result of the latest actuarial valuation. USGAAP
respect of prior years’ goodwill and intangible assets until fully
requires measurement of plan assets and liabilities to be made at
amortised under USGAAP. Goodwill arising on acquisitions before
the date of the financial statements or up to three months prior
1st January 1998 was set against shareholders’ funds under UK
to that date.
GAAP. Under US GAAP, this goodwill is capitalised and amortised
over its expected useful economic life and charged against income. The disclosures required by FAS132 are included in this Note.
Intangible assets recognised before 1st January 1998 under US
Stock-based compensation
purchase accounting requirements are amortised over their
Under UK GAAP share options are accounted for as equity when
estimated revenue earning life, which is taken to be patent
exercised, valued at the issuance price. Under USGAAP, the Group
lifeplusfive years. The carrying value of these intangible assets
applies FAS 123 ‘Accounting for stock-based compensation’ and
isreviewed annually for any impairment in value.
related accounting interpretations in accounting for its option plans
Under UK GAAP, costs to be incurred in integrating and which require options to be fair valued at their grant date and
restructuring the Glaxo and Wellcome businesses into a single included in profit and loss over the vesting period of the options.
business, following the acquisition in 1995, are charged to the As a result of the merger certain of the Group’s options vested
profit and loss account post acquisition. Under US GAAP, certain immediately requiring the acceleration of compensation expense.
ofsuch costs are considered in the allocation of purchase The amount of stock-based compensation expense related to this
consideration thereby affecting the goodwill arising on acquisition. accelerated vesting was £83 million. The disclosures required by
FAS123 are included in Note 33. Additionally, the Group is entitled
Merger transaction costs
to receive a tax deduction for the amount treated as compensation
The Group incurred total merger-related transaction costs of
under US tax rules for employee stock options which have been
£121million, excluding integration and restructuring costs. Under
exercised by USemployees during the year. Under UKGAAP this is
UK GAAP these merger transaction costs were expensed as incurred
treated as a reduction of tax expense whereas under USGAAP this
during 2000. Under USGAAP, direct acquisition costs of the
amount is credited to equity.
acquiring company are included as a portion of the purchase
consideration. Employee Share Ownership Trust (ESOT)
Under UK GAAP shares of the Group’s stock held by the ESOT
Restructuring costs
arerecorded at cost and accounted for as fixed asset investments.
Prior to the adoption of FRS 12 ‘Provisions, contingent liabilities
Projected losses on the exercise of the options covered by the shares
andcontingent assets’, the requirements for recording a provision
are recorded through the profit and loss account over the life of
for restructuring costs were more prescriptive under USGAAP than
theoptions. Under US GAAP shares of the Group’s stock purchased
under UKGAAP. Accordingly, adjustments have been made to
by the ESOT are accounted for within shareholders’ equity.
eliminate the UKGAAPprovision for restructuring costs that do
Gainsorlosses arising on subsequent issuance of the shares to
notmeet USGAAPrequirements.
employees to satisfy share options are recorded as adjustments
toshareholders’ equity.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 129
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued Comprehensive income statement
The requirement of FAS 130 ‘Reporting comprehensive income’ to
Foreign currency hedging
provide a comprehensive income statement is met under UKGAAP
The Group enters into forward exchange contracts and other
by the Statement of total recognised gains and losses (pages 72 to
financial instruments which, under UKGAAP, are treated as hedges
73). A statement of comprehensive income under USGAAP for the
of future income. The matching principle is used to match the gain
three years in the period ending 31st December 2000 is presented
or loss under these hedging contracts to the foreign currency
on pages 122 and 123. Under USGAAP the statement includes the
transaction or profits to which they relate. Under US GAAP, these
net impact of gains and losses on equity and liquid investments and
instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting and any unrealised
translation adjustments.
gain or loss on hedges of future profits of transactions must be
valued at the year end at market rates and recognised in the net Recent FASB pronouncements
income of the current year. FAS 133 ‘Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities’, as deferred by FAS 137, as amended by FAS 138
Ordinary dividends
inJune2000, is required to be implemented with effect from
Under UK GAAP, ordinary dividends proposed are provided for in
1stJanuary 2001. FAS133 requires that all derivative instruments
the year in respect of which they are recommended by the Board
be recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and
ofDirectors for approval by the shareholders. Under USGAAP,
measured at fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are
suchdividends are not provided for until declared by the Board
recorded each period in current earnings or other comprehensive
ofDirectors.
income, depending on whether a derivative is designated as part of
Deferred taxation a hedge transaction and, if it is, the type of hedge transaction. The
Under UK GAAP, deferred taxation is only accounted for to the Group has undertaken a review of its derivative instruments and
extent that it is probable that taxation liabilities or benefits will contracts which may contain possible embedded derivatives. The
become payable or crystallise within the foreseeable future. Under fair value and book value of derivative instruments in respect of
US GAAP FAS 109 ‘Accounting for income taxes’ requires that financial assets and liabilities as at 31stDecember 2000 isdisclosed
deferred taxation is accounted for on all temporary differences and in the ‘Classification and fair values of financial assets and liabilities’
a valuation adjustment to be provided on a full liability basis, and table in Note 34. It is not expected that the adoption of FAS 133 for
established in respect of those deferred assets where it is more derivatives or embedded derivatives will have a material impact
likelythan not that some portion will not be realised. onthe financial results orfinancial position of the Group in 2001.
Exceptional items In September 2000 the FASB issued FAS 140, ‘Accounting for
Items classified as exceptional under UK GAAP do not meet the Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishing of
definition of extraordinary under US GAAP and are therefore Liabilities’, which will be effective for transfers and servicing of
classified as operating expense. financial assets and extinguishments of liabilities occurring after
31st March 2001. The statement provides accounting and reporting
Consolidated statement of cash flows
standards for transfers, transfers and servicing of financial assets
The USGAAP cash flow statement reports changes in cash andcash
and extinguishments of liabilities. It is not expected that the
equivalents, which includes short-term highly liquid investments.
adoption of the statement will have a material effect on the
Only three categories of cash flows are reported: operating
company’s results of operations or financial position.
activities (including tax and interest); investing activities (including
capital expenditures, acquisitions and disposals together with
cashflows from available for sale current asset investments);
andfinancing activities (including dividends paid). A statement
ofcash flows is presented on page 124.
Cash and cash equivalents
Under UK GAAP the cash balance includes only cash at bank and
other cash balances. Under USGAAP cash and cash equivalents
include cash at bank and certain liquid investments with original
maturities of three months or less.130 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
Earnings per share under US GAAP
2000 1999 1998
Weighted average number of shares in issue millions millions millions
Basic 3,591 3,622 3,596
Adjustments:
Share options 35 17 40
Diluted 3,626 3,639 3,636
ADSShares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trusts are excluded.
Taxation
2000 1999 1998
Total tax expense £m £m £m
UK GAAP:
Current tax expense 808 761 841
Deferred tax expense (37) (15) (26)
Total tax expense 771 746 815
US GAAP:
Current tax expense 817 761 841
Deferred tax expense (9) (108) (67)
Total tax expense 808 653 774
Deferred taxation under USGAAP
Classification of GlaxoSmithKline’s deferred taxation liabilities and assets under US GAAP as at 31st December 2000 and of Glaxo
Wellcome’s deferred taxation liabilities and assets under US GAAP as at 31st December 1999 is as follows:
2000 1999
£m £m
Liabilities
Stock valuation adjustment (155) (70)
Current deferred taxation liabilities (155) (70)
Accelerated capital allowances (644) (407)
Unremitted foreign investment income – (3)
Product rights (7,280) –
Other timing differences (396) (15)
Total deferred taxation liabilities (8,475) (495)
Assets
Intra-Group profit 314 210
Other timing differences 563 219
Current deferred taxation assets 877 429
Asset disposal 10 –
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 217 73
Manufacturing restructuring 55 15
Tax losses 209 –
Total deferred taxation assets 1,368 517
Net deferred taxation under US GAAP (7,107) 22Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 131
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
Segment information under USGAAP
Under UK GAAP, the segment information presented in Note 7 includes results of operations and other information on a historical
combined Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham basis for all periods presented.
Under US GAAP, the segment information for 1999 and 1998 relates to Glaxo Wellcome only. For 2000 the results of operations relate to
Glaxo Wellcome only and assets relate to Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham on a consolidated basis. Segment information for the
results of operations has not been presented by business sector since Glaxo Wellcome operated in only one segment – Pharmaceuticals.
2000 1999 1998
Turnover by location of customer £m £m £m
USA 4,314 3,557 3,382
Europe 2,959 2,897 2,734
Rest of the World 2,286 2,036 1,867
External turnover 9,559 8,490 7,983
Turnover by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 4,494 3,710 3,495
Europe 5,375 4,945 4,448
Rest of the World 3,370 3,675 2,481
Gross turnover 13,239 12,330 10,424
USA (176) (150) (117)
Europe (2,271) (1,902) (1,558)
Rest of the World (1,233) (1,788) (766)
Inter-segment turnover (3,680) (3,840) (2,441)
USA 4,318 3,560 3,378
Europe 3,104 3,043 2,890
Rest of the World 2,137 1,887 1,715
External turnover 9,559 8,490 7,983
Profit before tax by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA (2,850) 376 322
Europe (670) 1,531 911
Rest of the World (936) (273) 583
Operating (loss)/profit (4,456) 1,634 1,816
Share of profits of joint ventures and associated undertakings – 3 22
Profit on disposal of associate (1998 – dissolution of joint venture) 144 39 57
Net interest payable (87) (92) (91)
(Loss)/profit before taxation (4,399) 1,584 1,804
(Loss)/profit before taxation (4,399) 1,584 1,804
Taxation (808) (653) (774)
Minority interests (21) (18) (20)
Earnings/Net (loss)/income (5,228) 913 1,010132 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2000 1999
Total assets by business sector £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 53,359 13,901
Consumer Healthcare 11,781 –
Total assets 65,140 13,901
2000 1999
Total assets by location of subsidiary undertaking £m £m
USA 27,147 3,086
Europe 20,155 5,748
Rest of the World 13,389 2,983
Total operating assets 60,691 11,817
Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities 4,449 2,084
Total assets 65,140 13,901
At 31.12.00
Plant,
Land and equipment Computer Assets in
buildings and vehicles software construction Total
Tangible fixed assets by location of subsidiary undertaking £m £m £m £m £m
USA 752 471 30 287 1,540
Europe 1,474 1,866 170 568 4,078
Rest of the World 617 453 8 136 1,214
Total 2,843 2,790 208 991 6,832
UK segment
Information is given separately in respect of the UK, which, although included in the Group’s Europe market region, is considered the
Group’s home segment for the purposes of segmental reporting.
2000 1999 1998
£m £m £m
Turnover by location of customer 474 487 503
Gross turnover 1,241 1,216 1,413
Inter-segment turnover (562) (532) (684)
Turnover by location of subsidiary 679 684 729
Operating profit 370 1,395 786
Total assets 8,492 2,925Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 133
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
Pensions under USGAAP
The FAS 132 disclosures for the years ended 31st December 1999 and 1998 are provided in relation to the employees of Glaxo Wellcome
only. For 2000 the income statement disclosures are provided in relation to the employees of Glaxo Wellcome only and the balance sheet
disclosures are provided on a consolidated basis in relation to the employees of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham.
The average number of persons employed by the Group
2000 1999 1998
(including Directors) during the year Number Number Number
Manufacturing 20,477 21,596 19,931
Selling, general and administration 30,765 29,294 27,459
Research and development 9,659 9,836 9,544
60,901 60,726 56,934
2000 1999 1998
Pension and other post-retirement costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 6 4 7
US pension schemes 59 51 47
Other overseas pension schemes 31 26 22
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 16 16 14
Post-employment costs 7 8 8
119 105 98
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid schemes 57 49 45
Unfunded defined benefit schemes 10 8 9
Defined contribution schemes 29 24 22
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 16 16 14
Post-employment costs 7 8 8
119 105 98
The disclosures below include the additional information required by FAS 132. The pension costs of the UK, US and major overseas defined
benefit pension plans have been restated in the following tables in accordance with US GAAP. Pension costs in 2000 of £35 million
(1999 – £20 million, 1998 – £21 million) in respect of minor retirement plans, which have not been recalculated in accordance with the
requirements of FAS 87, have been excluded.
2000 1999 1998
The net periodic pension cost/(income) for the major retirement plans comprised: £m £m £m
Service cost 119 105 91
Interest cost 161 135 144
Expected return on plan assets (253) (191) (204)
Amortisation of prior service cost 16 5 5
Amortisation of transition obligation (12) (11) (10)
Recognised net actuarial gain (70) (36) (43)
Net periodic pension cost/(income) under US GAAP (39) 7 (17)
Termination benefits and curtailment costs 7 9 9
The major assumptions used in computing the above pension income/cost were: %pa %pa %pa
Rates of future pay increases 4.6 4.0 3.0
Discount rate 6.5 6.0 6.0
Expected long-term rates of return on plan assets 7.0 7.1 6.6
In aggregate, average international plan assumptions did not vary significantly from US assumptions.134 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2000 1999
Change in benefit obligation £m £m
Benefit obligation at beginning of year 2,500 2,317
Amendments 160 (7)
Service cost 119 105
Interest cost 161 135
Plan participants’ contributions 20 18
Actuarial loss 198 9
Benefits paid (127) (122)
Acquisition 2,499 19
Termination benefits and curtailment costs 7 9
Exchange 23 17
Benefit obligation at end of year 5,560 2,500
Benefit obligation at end of year for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets 1,465 92
2000 1999
Change in plan assets £m £m
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 3,678 2,979
Actual return on plan assets 514 689
Employer contribution 35 81
Plan participants’ contributions 20 18
Benefits paid (127) (122)
Acquisition 2,310 12
Exchange 22 21
Fair value of plan assets at end of year 6,452 3,678
Fair value of plan assets at end of year for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets 1,138 51
Plan assets consist primarily of investments in UK and overseas equities, fixed interest securities, securities linked to the UK index of Retail
Price Inflation and property. At 31st December 2000 UK equities included six million GlaxoSmithKline ordinary shares (1999: three million
GlaxoWellcome ordinary shares) with a market value of £108 million (1999: Glaxo Wellcome ordinary shares – £50 million).
2000 1999
Funded status £m £m
Funded status 892 1,178
Unrecognised net actuarial (gain)/loss (1,050) (1,047)
Unrecognised prior service cost 169 22
Unrecognised transition obligation (21) (33)
Net amount recognised (10) 120
2000 1999
Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position consist of: £m £m
Prepaid benefit cost 285 175
Accrued pension liability (295) (55)
Intangible asset – –
Accumulated other comprehensive income – –
Net amount recognised (10) 120Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 135
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
Post-retirement healthcare under USGAAP
The disclosures for 1999 and 1998 are provided in relation to the employees of Glaxo Wellcome only. For 2000 the income statement
disclosures are provided in relation to the employees of Glaxo Wellcome only and the balance sheet disclosures are provided on a
consolidated basis in relation to the employees of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham.
2000 1999 1998
Net healthcare cost £m £m £m
Service cost 5 6 4
Interest cost 13 11 11
Amortisation of prior service cost (2) (1) (1)
Net healthcare cost 16 16 14
The major assumptions used in calculating the net healthcare cost were: %pa %pa %pa
Rate of future healthcare inflation 7.8 to 4.9 8.2 to 4.7 8.6 to 4.4
Discount rate 7.2 7.1 6.6
2000 1999
Change in benefit obligation £m £m
Benefit obligation at beginning of year 159 169
Amendments (3) (10)
Service cost 5 6
Interest cost 13 11
Plan participants’ contributions 1 –
Actuarial loss/(gain) 11 (12)
Benefits paid (11) (8)
Acquisition of SmithKline Beecham 400 –
Exchange 8 3
Benefit obligation at end of year 583 159
Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year – –
Employer contributions 11 8
Benefits paid (11) (8)
Fair value of plan assets at end of year – –
Funded status
Funded status (583) (159)
Unrecognised net actuarial (gain)/loss 22 11
Unrecognised prior service cost (20) (18)
Prepaid/(accrued) post-retirement healthcare cost (581) (166)
1% decrease 1% increase
The impact of a 1 per cent variation in the rate of future healthcare inflation would be: £m £m
Effect on total service and interest cost (2) 2
Effect on provision for post-retirement benefits (59) 83136 GlaxoSmithKline Group companies Group companies GlaxoSmithKline 137
Group companies
The following represent the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of the GlaxoSmithKline Group at 31stDecember 2000.
Details are given of: the country of incorporation and principal country of operation; the location of the headquarters; the business
segment; the business activities. The share capital of these undertakings, comprising ordinary shares, is wholly owned by the Group
except where its interest is shown otherwise.
Region Country Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity % Note Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity % Note
Europe England Greenford Glaxo Wellcome plc Ph h Brentford SmithKline Beecham plc Ph,CH h r d p m e
Glaxo Group Ltd Ph h SmithKline Beecham (SWG) Ltd CH m e
Glaxo Wellcome Export Ltd Ph e
Glaxo Research and Development Ltd Ph r d
Glaxo Investments (UK) Ltd Ph f (i)
Glaxo Wellcome Vehicle Finance Ltd Ph f
The Wellcome Foundation Ltd Ph h r d p
Wellcome Limited Ph h
Stockley Park Glaxo Operations UK Ltd Ph p
Glaxo Wellcome UK Ltd Ph p m
Austria Vienna Glaxo Wellcome Pharma GmbH Ph m Brunn SmithKline Beecham Markenartikel GmbH CH m
Belgium Brussels Glaxo Wellcome Belgium SA Ph m Heppignes Beecham SA Ph m
Genval SmithKline Beecham SA Ph,CH p
Rixensart SmithKline Beecham Biologicals SA
(now GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA) Ph p e
SmithKline Beecham Biologicals Biotech SA
(now GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Biotech SA) Ph p
Wavre SmithKline Beecham Biologicals Manufacturing SA
(now GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Manufacturing SA) Ph p e
Czech Republic Prague Glaxo Wellcome sro Ph m Prague SmithKline Beecham spol sro Ph m
Denmark Brøndby Glaxo Wellcome a/s Ph m Ballerup SmithKline Beecham a/s CH m
Finland Espoo Glaxo Wellcome Oy Ph m Espoo SmithKline Beecham Oy CH m
France Paris Groupe Glaxo Wellcome Ph r p m Nanterre SmithKline Beecham Laboratoires Pharmaceutiques SAS Ph p m
Herouville SmithKline Beecham Liquides Industrie SA CH p
Nanterre SmithKline Beecham Santé et Hygiene SAS CH m
Germany Hamburg Glaxo Wellcome GmbH & Co Ph p m Buehl SmithKline Beecham Consumer Healthcare GmbH CH m
Munich SmithKline Beecham Pharma GmbH Ph m
Greece Athens Glaxo Wellcome AEBE Ph p m Athens SmithKline Beecham CISA Ph,CH m
Hungary Budapest Glaxo Wellcome Kft Ph p m Budapest SmithKline Beecham Kft Ph,CH m
Ireland Dublin Glaxo Wellcome Ltd Ph p m Carrigaline SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Ltd Ph p
Glaxo Wellcome International Ph h (ii) Dungarvan SmithKline Beecham Dungarvan Ltd CH p
Dublin SmithKline Beecham (Ireland) Ltd Ph,CH m
Carrigaline SmithKline Beecham (Manufacturing)Ltd Ph p
Italy Verona Glaxo Wellcome Finanziaria SpA Ph h f Milan SmithKline Beecham SpA Ph m
Glaxo Wellcome SpA Ph r p m
Netherlands Zeist Glaxo Wellcome BV Ph m Rijswijk SmithKline Beecham Consumer Brands BV CH m
Glaxo Wellcome International BV Ph h SmithKline Beecham Farma BV Ph m
Glaxo Wellcome Investments BV Ph h
Norway Oslo Glaxo Wellcome AS Ph m
Poland Poznan Glaxo Wellcome SA Ph p m 96 Warsaw SmithKline Beecham Polska Sp Zoo Ph,CH m
Portugal Lisbon Glaxo Wellcome Farmaceutica, Lda. Ph m Lisbon Instituto Luso-Farmaco Lda Ph m
Romania Bucharest Glaxo Wellcome srl Ph m
Spain Madrid Glaxo Wellcome SA Ph r p m Madrid SmithKline Beecham SA Ph m
Sweden Mölndal Glaxo Wellcome AB Ph m Solna SmithKline Beecham AB Ph m
Switzerland Berne Glaxo Wellcome AG Ph m Thoerishaus SmithKline Beecham AG Ph m
Zug Adechsa GmbH Ph e
Turkey Istanbul GlaxoWellcome ISAS Ph p m Istanbul SmithKline Beecham Ilac Ticaret AS Ph,CH m
Notes:
(i) Incorporated in Bermuda Business segment: PhPharmaceuticals, CHConsumer Healthcare
(ii)Exempt from the provisions of Section 7 of the Companies (Amendment) Act 1986 (Ireland) Business activity: ddevelopment, eexporting, ffinance, hholding company, iinsurance, mmarketing, pproduction, rresearch138 GlaxoSmithKline Group companies Group companies GlaxoSmithKline 139
Region Country Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity % Note Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity % Note
USA USA Research Triangle Park Glaxo Wellcome Inc Ph r p m Pittsburgh SmithKline Beecham Consumer Healthcare LP CH p m 65
Palo Alto Affymax Research Institute Ph r Philadelphia SmithKline Beecham Corporation Ph,CH h r d p m e
New York Glaxo Wellcome Americas Inc Ph h Philadelphia SmithKline Beecham Holdings Corporation Ph,CH h
Americas Bermuda Hamilton Glaxo Wellcome Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd Ph i
Canada Mississauga Glaxo Wellcome Inc Ph r p m Oakville SmithKline Beecham Inc Ph,CH m
Asia Pacific Australia Boronia Glaxo Wellcome Australia Ltd Ph p m Dandenong SmithKline Beecham (Australia) Pty Ltd Ph,CH m
Bangladesh Chittagong Glaxo Wellcome Bangladesh Ltd Ph p m 82
China Chongqing Chongqing Glaxo Wellcome Ph p m 88 Tianjin Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd Ph m 55
Pharmaceuticals Ltd
Suzhou Glaxo Wellcome (Suzhou) Ph p m Tianjin SmithKline Beecham (Tianjin) Co Ltd Ph 90
Pharmaceuticals Ltd
Hong Kong Glaxo Wellcome China Ltd Ph m Hong Kong SmithKline Beecham Ltd Ph,CH m
India Mumbai Glaxo India Ltd Ph p m 51 Nabha SmithKline Beecham Consumer Healthcare Ltd CH p m 40 (iii)
Burroughs Wellcome (India)Ltd Ph m 51 Bangalore SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals (India) Ltd Ph m 40 (iii)
Indonesia Jakarta PT Glaxo Wellcome Indonesia Ph m 85 Jakarta PT Sterling Products Indonesia CH m 70
Malaysia Kuala Lumpur Glaxo Wellcome (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Ph p m Selangor Darul
Ehsan SmithKline Beecham Sdn Bhd Ph,CH m
New Zealand Auckland Glaxo Wellcome New Zealand Ltd Ph p m Auckland SmithKline Beecham (NZ) Ltd Ph,CH m
Pakistan Karachi Glaxo Wellcome (Pakistan) Ltd Ph p m 70 Karachi Beecham Pakistan (Private) Ltd Ph,CH m
Philippines Manila Glaxo Wellcome Philippines Inc Ph m Manila Philippines Branch of SmithKline Beecham Research Ltd Ph,CH m (iv)
Duncan Pharmaceuticals Philippines Inc Ph m
Singapore Singapore Glaxo Wellcome Singapore Pte Ltd Ph m Jurong Beecham Pharmaceuticals (Pte) Ltd Ph p
Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Ph p
Glaxochem Pte Ltd Ph f
South Korea Seoul Glaxo Wellcome Korea Ltd Ph p m Seoul SmithKline Beecham Korea Ltd Ph,CH m
Sri Lanka Colombo Glaxo Wellcome Ceylon Ltd Ph p m 81 Colombo SmithKline Beecham (Private) Ltd Ph,CH m
Taiwan Taipei Glaxo Wellcome Taiwan Ltd Ph p m Taipei Taiwan Branch of SmithKline Beecham Far East BV Ph,CH m (v)
Thailand Bangkok Glaxo Wellcome (Thailand) Ltd Ph m Bangkok Smith Kline & French (Thailand) Ltd Ph,CH m
Samut Prakan Glaxo Wellcome Vidhyasom Ltd Ph p m
Japan Japan Tokyo Glaxo Wellcome KK Ph r p m 80 Tokyo SmithKline Beecham Seiyaku KK Ph,CH m
(now GlaxoSmithKline KK)
Notes:
(iii)Consolidated as a subsidiary undertaking in accordance with Section 258(4)(a) of the Companies Act 1985 on the grounds of significant
influence
(iv)Registered in England
(v)Registered in the Netherlands140 GlaxoSmithKline Group companies Group companies GlaxoSmithKline 141
Region Country Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity % Note Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity % Note
Latin Argentina Buenos Aires Glaxo Wellcome SA Ph p m Buenos Aires SmithKline Beecham Argentina SA Ph,CH m
America
Brazil Rio de Janeiro Glaxo Wellcome SA Ph p m Rio de Janeiro SmithKline Beecham Brasil Ltda Ph,CH m
Bahia SmithKline Beecham Quimica Do Nordeste Ltda Ph p
Chile Santiago Glaxo Wellcome Farmaceutica Ltda Ph m Santiago SmithKline Beecham Chile SA Ph,CH m
Colombia Bogota Glaxo Wellcome de Colombia SA Ph p m Bogota SmithKline Beecham Colombia SA Ph,CH m
Costa Rica San Jose SmithKline Beecham Costa Rica SA Ph,CH m
Dominican Republic Santo Domingo SmithKline Beecham Republica Dominicana SA Ph,CH m
Ecuador Quito Glaxo Wellcome SA Ph m Guayaquil SmithKline Beecham Ecuador SA Ph,CH m
Mexico Mexico City Glaxo Wellcome Mexico, SA de CV Ph p m Civac SmithKline Beecham Mexico SA de CV Ph,CH p m
Panama Panama City Glaxo Wellcome Centro America SA Ph m Panama City Sterling Products International SA Ph,CH m
Paraguay Asunción Glaxo Wellcome SA Ph m
Peru Lima Glaxo Wellcome SA Ph m Lima Peru Branch of SmithKline Beecham Inter-American Corporation Ph,CH m (vi)
Puerto Rico San Juan Glaxo Wellcome Puerto Rico Inc Ph m Hato Rey SB Pharmco Puerto Rico Inc Ph p
Uruguay Montevideo Glaxo Wellcome SA Ph m Montevideo SmithKline Beecham Uruguay Ltda Ph,CH m
Venezuela Caracas Glaxo Wellcome CA Ph p m Caracas SmithKline Beecham Venezuela CA Ph,CH p m
Allen & Hanburys CA Ph p m
Middle East, Egypt Cairo Glaxo Wellcome Egypt SAE Ph p m 89
Africa
Kenya Nairobi Glaxo Wellcome (Kenya) Ltd Ph p m Nairobi SmithKline Beecham Consumer Healthcare Ltd Ph,CH m
Morocco Casablanca Glaxo Wellcome Maroc SA Ph m 90 Rabat SmithKline Beecham Maroc SA Ph p m 80
Nigeria Lagos Glaxo Wellcome Nigeria Ltd Ph p m Lagos SmithKline Beecham Nigeria plc Ph,CH m 46 (iii)
Saudi Arabia Jeddah Glaxo Saudi Arabia Ltd Ph m 49 (iii)
South Africa Midrand Glaxo Wellcome South Africa (Pty) Ltd Ph p m Johannesburg SmithKline Beecham Consumer Healthcare (Pty) Ltd CH p m
Johannesburg SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals (Pty) Ph m
Region Country Location Associated undertaking %
USA USA Teterboro, Quest Diagnostics, Incorporated 27
New Jersey
The activity of Quest Diagnostics is Clinical Laboratories. The issued share capital comprises 46,541,333 shares of
common stock.
Notes:
(iii)Consolidated as a subsidiary undertaking in accordance with Section 258(4)(a) of the Companies Act 1985 on the grounds of
significant influence. Full details of all Group subsidiary and associated undertakings will be attached to the company’s Annual Return to be filed with the
(vi) Registered in the United States Registrar ofCompanies.142 GlaxoSmithKline
Principal financial statements in US$
The following information is provided for the convenience of US shareholders in accordance with the requirements of the New York
StockExchange. The principal financial statements, prepared under UKGAAP and in sterling, have been translated into US$ – the
consolidated profit and loss account, consolidated statement of recognised gains and losses and consolidated cash flow statement at
average exchange rates and the consolidated balance sheet at period end exchange rates. The exchange rates used are given in Note 5
tothe financial statements.
Consolidated profit and loss account
2000 1999 1998
Business Other Total Business Other Total Business Other Total
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Turnover 27,480 – 27,480 27,210 – 27,210 26,563 – 26,563
Cost of sales (5,793) (230) (6,023) (6,375) (646) (7,021) (6,511) (76) (6,587)
Gross profit 21,687 (230) 21,457 20,835 (646) 20,189 20,052 (76) 19,976
Selling, general and
administrative expenditure (10,232) (614) (10,846) (9,998) (120) (10,118) (9,528) (226) (9,754)
Research and development
expenditure (3,815) (24) (3,839) (3,704) – (3,704) (3,441) – (3,441)
Trading profit 7,640 (868) 6,772 7,133 (766) 6,367 7,083 (302) 6,781
Other operating income/(expense) 416 – 416 669 – 669 367 – 367
Operating profit 8,056 (868) 7,188 7,802 (766) 7,036 7,450 (302) 7,148
Share of profits/(losses) of
joint ventures and associates 99 (12) 87 24 (13) 11 36 – 36
Profit on disposal of interest in associate 219 – 219 63 – 63 – – –
Profit on dissolution of joint venture – – – – – – 95 – 95
Product divestments – 2,152 2,152 – – – – – –
Merger transaction costs – (184) (184) – – – – – –
Disposal of businesses:
Provision for loss on disposal – – – – – – – (1,044) (1,044)
Loss on disposal – (21) (21) – (1,028) (1,028) – – –
Utilisation of provision – – – – 1,043 1,043 – – –
Profit before interest 8,374 1,067 9,441 7,889 (764) 7,125 7,581 (1,346) 6,235
Net interest payable (277) – (277) (262) – (262) (319) – (319)
Profit on ordinary activities
before taxation 8,097 1,067 9,164 7,627 (764) 6,863 7,262 (1,346) 5,916
Taxation (2,210) (372) (2,582) (2,150) 176 (1,974) (2,118) 496 (1,622)
Profit on ordinary activities
after taxation 5,887 695 6,582 5,477 (588) 4,889 5,144 (850) 4,294
Minority interests (183) – (183) (178) – (178) (169) – (169)
Preference share dividends (85) – (85) (79) – (79) (83) – (83)
Earnings (Profit attributable
to shareholders) 5,619 695 6,314 5,220 (588) 4,632 4,892 (850) 4,042
US$ US$ US$
Earnings per ADS 2.08 1.51 1.32
Adjusted earnings per ADS 1.85 1.71 1.60
A columnar presentation of the profit and loss account has been adopted in order to illustrate underlying business performance.
Forthispurpose certain items are excluded from business performance, the ‘Business’ column, and are presented in the ‘Other’ column.
These items comprise: merger items, including product divestments; costs relating to previously announced manufacturing and other
restructurings; the effect of business disposals in prior years.
Consolidated statement of total
2000 1999 1998
recognised gains and losses $m $m $m
Profit attributable to shareholders 6,314 4,632 4,042
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (682) (674) 75
UK tax on exchange movements (52) (71) 40
Total recognised gains and losses 5,580 3,887 4,157Principal financial statements in US$GlaxoSmithKline 143
Consolidated cash flow statement 2000 1999 1998
$m $m $m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 8,271 7,801 7,030
Earnings from joint ventures and associated undertakings 2 3 66
Returns on investment and servicing of finance (490) (510) (543)
Taxation paid (1,885) (1,774) (1,731)
Capital expenditure and financial investment (497) (3,630) (2,002)
Acquisitions and disposals 100 1,576 (285)
Equity dividends paid (3,083) (2,969) (3,016)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) before management of liquid resources and financing 2,418 497 (481)
Management of liquid resources (339) (58) (295)
Financing (830) (283) 426
Increase/(decrease) in cash in the year 1,249 156 (350)
Consolidated balance sheet 2000 1999
$m $m
Goodwill 253 258
Intangible assets 1,439 1,491
Tangible assets 9,897 10,307
Investments 3,791 2,904
Fixed assets 15,380 14,960
Equity investments 255 84
Stocks 3,393 3,611
Debtors 8,044 7,773
Liquid investments 3,186 2,866
Cash at bank 1,912 932
Current assets 16,790 15,266
Loans and overdrafts (3,399) (4,539)
Other creditors (10,137) (9,062)
Creditors: amounts due within one year (13,536) (13,601)
Net current assets 3,254 1,665
Total assets less current liabilities 18,634 16,625
Loans (2,609) (3,054)
Other creditors (213) (237)
Creditors: amounts due after one year (2,822) (3,291)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (2,469) (2,697)
Net assets 13,343 10,637
Called up share capital 2,318 2,494
Share premium account 45 –
Other reserves 9,126 6,303
Equity shareholders’ funds 11,489 8,797
Non-equity minority interest 1,548 1,547
Equity minority interests 306 293
Capital employed 13,343 10,637144 GlaxoSmithKline Financial record GlaxoSmithKline 145
Financial record
Quarterly trend
An analysis is provided by quarter of the Group results in sterling for the financial year 2000.
The analysis is of: business performance results; total results; pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area.
Profit and loss account – business performance 12 months 2000 Q4 2000 9 months 2000 Q3 2000 6 months 2000 Q2 2000 Q1 2000
£m CER % £m CER % £m CER % £m CER % £m CER % £m CER % £m CER %
Sales – Pharmaceuticals 15,429 10 4,304 5 11,125 13 3,786 16 7,339 11 3,872 9 3,467 14
– Consumer Healthcare 2,650 3 725 (1) 1,925 4 643 1 1,282 6 658 8 624 5
Sales – retained businesses 18,079 9 5,029 4 13,050 11 4,429 13 8,621 11 4,530 9 4,091 12
Cost of sales (3,811) (8) (1,048) (1) (2,763) (10) (919) (6) (1,844) (12) (996) (13) (848) (12)
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (6,732) (9) (1,858) 2 (4,874) (13) (1,690) (17) (3,184) (11) (1,634) (7) (1,550) (16)
Research and development expenditure (2,510) (7) (716) (2) (1,794) (9) (636) (10) (1,158) (9) (617) (9) (541) (9)
Operating costs (13,053) (8) (3,622) – (9,431) (11) (3,245) (12) (6,186) (11) (3,247) (9) (2,939) (13)
Trading profit – retained businesses 5,026 12 1,407 15 3,619 11 1,184 16 2,435 9 1,283 9 1,152 9
– Healthcare Services – – – – – – – –
Total trading profit 5,026 12 1,407 15 3,619 10 1,184 16 2,435 8 1,283 8 1,152 8
Other operating income/(expense) 274 148 126 6 120 75 45
Operating profit 5,300 1,555 3,745 1,190 2,555 1,358 1,197
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 65 14 51 23 28 16 12
Profit on disposal of interest in associate 144 – 144 – 144 144 –
Profit before interest 5,509 11 1,569 9 3,940 12 1,213 1 2,727 17 1,518 23 1,209 10
Net interest payable (182) (44) (138) (59) (79) (36) (43)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 5,327 11 1,525 10 3,802 11 1,154 (1) 2,648 17 1,482 24 1,166 10
Taxation (1,454) (416) (1,038) (316) (722) (404) (318)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 3,873 12 1,109 11 2,764 13 838 1 1,926 19 1,078 26 848 11
Minority interests (120) (34) (86) (22) (64) (35) (29)
Preference share dividends (56) (15) (41) (14) (27) (15) (12)
Earnings (Profit attributable to shareholders) 3,697 13 1,060 12 2,637 13 802 1 1,835 19 1,028 26 807 12
Earnings per Ordinary Share 61.0p 14 17.5p 12 43.5p 14 13.2p 2 30.3p 21 17.0p 27 13.3p 13
Profit and loss account – total
Sales – Pharmaceuticals 15,429 4,304 11,125 3,786 7,339 3,872 3,467
– Consumer Healthcare 2,650 725 1,925 643 1,282 658 624
Total sales 18,079 5,029 13,050 4,429 8,621 4,530 4,091
Cost of sales (3,962) (1,137) (2,825) (943) (1,882) (1,016) (866)
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (7,136) (2,039) (5,097) (1,729) (3,368) (1,808) (1,560)
Research and development expenditure (2,526) (729) (1,797) (639) (1,158) (617) (541)
Operating costs (13,624) (3,905) (9,719) (3,311) (6,408) (3,441) (2,967)
Trading profit – retained businesses 4,455 1,124 3,331 1,118 2,213 1,089 1,124
– Healthcare Services – – – – – – –
Total trading profit 4,455 1,124 3,331 1,118 2,213 1,089 1,124
Other operating income/(expense) 274 148 126 6 120 75 45
Operating profit 4,729 1,272 3,457 1,124 2,333 1,164 1,169
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 57 13 44 21 23 16 7
Profit on disposal of interest in associate 144 – 144 – 144 144 –
Loss on disposal of business (14) (14) – – – – –
Product divestments 1,416 1,416 – – – – –
Merger transaction costs (121) (75) (46) (24) (22) (15) (7)
Profit before interest 6,211 2,612 3,599 1,121 2,478 1,309 1,169
Net interest payable (182) (44) (138) (59) (79) (36) (43)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 6,029 2,568 3,461 1,062 2,399 1,273 1,126
Taxation (1,699) (737) (962) (294) (668) (359) (309)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 4,330 1,831 2,499 768 1,731 914 817
Minority interests (120) (34) (86) (22) (64) (35) (29)
Preference share dividends (56) (15) (41) (14) (27) (15) (12)
Earnings (Profit attributable to shareholders) 4,154 1,782 2,372 732 1,640 864 776
Earnings per Ordinary Share 68.5p 29.4p 39.1p 12.1p 27.0p 14.2p 12.8p146 GlaxoSmithKline Financial record
Pharmaceutical sales – total Group Q4 2000 Q3 2000 Q2 2000 Q1 2000
£m CER % £m CER % £m CER % £m CER %
CNS 911 5 879 29 790 12 699 22
Depression 546 3 551 38 467 10 438 25
Seroxat/Paxil 421 – 434 43 352 7 343 24
Wellbutrin 125 12 117 22 115 17 95 29
Migraine 222 – 197 2 203 7 160 10
Imigran/Imitrex 201 – 177 – 183 6 144 8
Naramig/Amerge 21 4 20 22 20 24 16 38
Lamictal 82 20 72 28 75 33 60 34
Requip 17 3 15 34 14 23 12 26
Zyban 36 76 35 >100 22 9 22 15
Respiratory 806 14 634 12 736 15 613 22
Flixotide/Flovent 265 28 205 29 223 27 187 34
Serevent 184 10 142 3 161 2 135 21
Seretide 77 >100 50 >100 47 >100 34 >100
Flixonase/Flonase 104 5 95 11 116 24 93 26
Ventolin 97 (10) 71 (12) 100 2 75 (10)
Becotide 50 (34) 45 (25) 53 (26) 57 (14)
Anti-bacterials 720 (7) 542 7 574 8 636 3
Augmentin 371 (2) 279 21 255 8 314 9
Zinnat/Ceftin 135 (4) 75 (3) 101 10 119 (2)
Fortum 56 (16) 45 (13) 58 4 54 (9)
Amoxil 52 (19) 40 4 57 23 50 4
Anti-virals 539 11 458 14 481 10 421 26
HIV 321 12 288 18 289 6 247 22
Trizivir 7 >100 – – – – – –
Combivir 159 18 144 24 141 9 118 37
Epivir 85 (3) 75 (2) 78 (15) 71 (7)
Retrovir 16 (22) 15 (27) 16 (32) 14 (37)
Ziagen 41 31 40 78 40 >100 33 >100
Agenerase 13 – 14 47 14 38 11 >100
Herpes 170 3 142 (1) 168 10 136 10
Valtrex 78 51 57 18 58 29 49 32
Zovirax 92 (18) 85 (11) 110 2 87 1
Zeffix 23 >100 19 >100 16 >100 12 >100
Relenza 12 (23) 1 21 – – 19 >100
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal 341 23 297 45 314 22 280 50
Avandia 140 >100 113 >100 112 >100 97 >100
Zantac 153 (16) 133 (8) 157 (8) 132 (13)
Lotronex 4 >100 13 >100 4 >100 15 >100
Vaccines 215 5 218 13 220 17 189 10
Hepatitis 113 (10) 117 (3) 121 (4) 111 6
Infanrix 46 20 41 36 48 78 36 73
Oncology and emesis 201 11 178 12 179 11 152 10
Zofran 135 13 126 16 123 13 107 10
Hycamtin 29 (1) 23 – 23 – 20 5
Cardiovascular 123 (3) 127 11 120 (2) 93 (4)
Coreg 40 23 46 22 40 10 22 (15)
Arthritis(Relafan) 49 (31) 59 1 55 (37) 47 (37)
Dermatologicals 67 (5) 58 (9) 71 1 53 (5)
Other 229 8 213 (3) 212 (3) 183 (11)
Pharmaceutical sales 4,201 6 3,663 16 3,752 10 3,366 14
Continuing business
Divested products 103 (26) 123 12 120 6 101 5
Famvir 31 (23) 54 71 34 (4) 33 9
Kytril 48 (32) 51 (14) 67 15 53 8
Other 24 (15) 18 (4) 19 – 15 (15)
Total pharmaceutical sales 4,304 5 3,786 16 3,872 9 3,467 14Financial recordGlaxoSmithKline 147
Pharmaceutical sales – USA Q4 2000 Q3 2000 Q2 2000 Q1 2000
£m CER % £m CER % £m CER % £m CER %
CNS 634 1 637 30 548 9 488 23
Depression 398 (1) 430 44 341 8 326 27
Seroxat/Paxil 277 (5) 317 55 229 4 234 26
Wellbutrin 121 11 113 21 112 16 92 29
Migraine 172 2 151 2 151 8 114 12
Imigran/Imitrex 160 2 138 – 139 7 105 10
Naramig/Amerge 12 4 13 21 12 26 9 35
Lamictal 41 26 36 33 35 33 26 50
Requip 8 6 7 44 6 11 5 21
Zyban 15 (12) 13 3 15 (3) 17 16
Respiratory 341 25 268 20 289 17 224 52
Flixotide/Flovent 139 64 97 52 99 35 79 87
Serevent 106 30 78 11 85 11 61 60
Seretide – – – – – – – –
Flixonase/Flonase 77 5 74 12 83 25 60 33
Ventolin 11 (20) 7 6 8 (13) 5 (48)
Becotide (1) >(100) – – – – 5 36
Anti-bacterials 360 (3) 249 19 235 7 298 10
Augmentin 237 4 167 36 133 5 188 16
Zinnat/Ceftin 70 (9) 28 (26) 45 2 61 –
Fortum 10 (30) 10 3 9 (14) 11 (21)
Amoxil 11 3 8 7 21 >100 12 60
Anti-virals 261 11 230 18 223 9 203 33
HIV 193 13 177 20 171 8 145 26
Trizivir 6 >100 – – – – – –
Combivir 96 16 92 21 86 9 71 22
Epivir 47 6 41 7 39 (14) 37 5
Retrovir 7 (16) 6 (25) 6 (22) 6 (26)
Ziagen 26 13 26 54 26 77 22 55
Agenerase 11 (11) 12 40 14 34 9 >100
Herpes 55 16 47 7 46 13 40 19
Valtrex 43 28 39 18 36 25 29 26
Zovirax 12 (13) 8 (23) 10 (16) 11 4
Zeffix 2 >100 1 >100 1 >100 1 >100
Relenza 1 (93) – – – – 13 >100
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal 162 86 149 >100 148 78 135 >100
Avandia 127 >100 105 >100 108 >100 93 >100
Zantac 29 (33) 30 4 34 (5) 26 (28)
Lotronex 4 >100 13 >100 4 >100 15 >100
Vaccines 52 17 63 20 56 (21) 41 (25)
Hepatitis 42 7 50 19 43 (20) 33 (16)
Infanrix 10 88 11 54 7 50 7 47
Oncology and emesis 144 16 128 15 124 9 103 8
Zofran 94 18 88 21 84 11 72 9
Hycamtin 20 1 16 (5) 15 (10) 12 (5)
Cardiovascular 74 (12) 83 5 72 (13) 53 (13)
Coreg 40 23 46 28 40 18 22 (6)
Arthritis(Relafan) 43 (30) 53 3 47 (41) 40 (40)
Dermatologicals 10 (17) 8 (24) 8 (30) 9 (9)
Other 49 26 58 (8) 37 2 27 (38)
Pharmaceutical sales 2,130 9 1,926 26 1,787 8 1,621 21
Continuing business
Divested products 44 (40) 72 24 67 8 58 9
Famvir 22 (25) 44 >100 25 (1) 23 12
Kytril 21 (51) 27 (26) 41 16 34 10
Other 1 (40) 1 (40) 1 (40) 1 (40)
Total pharmaceutical sales 2,174 7 1,998 26 1,854 8 1,679 21148 GlaxoSmithKline Financial record
Pharmaceutical sales – Europe Q4 2000 Q3 2000 Q2 2000 Q1 2000
£m CER % £m CER % £m CER % £m CER %
CNS 188 7 172 29 168 12 150 16
Depression 93 – 80 21 86 10 75 16
Seroxat/Paxil 93 – 80 21 86 10 75 16
Wellbutrin – – – – – – – –
Migraine 38 (10) 36 2 41 2 37 8
Imigran/Imitrex 31 (12) 30 (1) 35 1 31 4
Naramig/Amerge 7 (2) 6 19 6 12 6 39
Lamictal 31 14 28 22 30 24 27 22
Requip 9 1 7 27 8 33 6 29
Zyban 14 >100 18 >100 1 >100 1 >100
Respiratory 305 7 250 9 292 10 270 12
Flixotide/Flovent 77 (6) 70 3 81 8 77 3
Serevent 68 (8) 55 (6) 65 (9) 65 (1)
Seretide 63 >100 42 >100 42 >100 32 >100
Flixonase/Flonase 10 4 9 3 15 14 11 15
Ventolin 40 (8) 33 (7) 38 (2) 38 (3)
Becotide 39 (19) 35 (7) 40 (11) 38 (10)
Anti-bacterials 194 (12) 144 1 170 8 197 (7)
Augmentin 89 (12) 67 2 76 7 88 (3)
Zinnat/Ceftin 34 4 23 24 24 11 32 (13)
Fortum 22 (11) 18 2 24 12 24 (4)
Amoxil 17 (35) 10 (12) 14 (5) 20 (12)
Anti-virals 136 4 123 10 139 16 133 21
HIV 92 13 83 17 90 22 80 22
Trizivir 1 >100 – – – – – –
Combivir 48 23 41 33 45 39 39 64
Epivir 25 (7) 23 (11) 27 (6) 25 (11)
Retrovir 5 (26) 6 (30) 6 (34) 6 (46)
Ziagen 12 64 12 >100 11 >100 9 >100
Agenerase 1 41 1 79 1 59 1 >100
Herpes 38 (8) 36 (4) 45 7 43 7
Valtrex 15 19 13 12 15 22 15 35
Zovirax 23 (19) 23 (11) 30 – 28 (3)
Zeffix 2 >100 2 >100 2 >100 1 >100
Relenza 1 (76) – – (1) >100 6 >100
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal 65 (11) 57 (18) 61 (17) 65 (4)
Avandia 4 >100 3 >100 1 >100 – –
Zantac 48 (16) 42 (16) 48 (19) 51 (11)
Lotronex – – – – – – – –
Vaccines 98 (8) 101 2 100 28 91 34
Hepatitis 50 (21) 48 (14) 58 11 54 19
Infanrix 25 12 23 33 27 45 23 56
Oncology and emesis 33 (2) 31 11 34 15 31 11
Zofran 24 6 23 16 24 17 22 9
Hycamtin 6 (11) 5 5 6 18 6 17
Cardiovascular 31 18 29 29 31 19 29 10
Coreg – – – – – – – –
Arthritis (Relafan) 4 (40) 4 (8) 5 29 4 7
Dermatologicals 15 (2) 15 (10) 17 (1) 15 (6)
Other 62 (11) 54 17 56 (10) 56 (17)
Pharmaceutical sales 1,131 (1) 980 9 1,073 9 1,041 8
Continuing business
Divested products 10 (18) 10 (5) 12 (3) 11 6
Famvir 4 (27) 4 (10) 5 (20) 5 10
Kytril 6 (11) 6 – 7 12 6 2
Other – – – – – – – –
Total pharmaceutical sales 1,141 (1) 990 8 1,085 9 1,052 8Financial recordGlaxoSmithKline 149
Pharmaceutical sales – Rest of World Q4 2000 Q3 2000 Q2 2000 Q1 2000
£m CER % £m CER % £m CER % £m CER %
CNS 89 31 70 22 74 34 61 24
Depression 55 45 41 20 40 25 37 32
Seroxat/Paxil 51 45 37 18 37 22 34 30
Wellbutrin 4 48 4 41 3 86 3 62
Migraine 12 14 10 7 11 17 9 4
Imigran/Imitrex 10 11 9 3 9 12 8 (1)
Naramig/Amerge 2 42 1 38 2 71 1 60
Lamictal 10 16 8 31 10 64 7 33
Requip – – 1 25 – – 1 60
Zyban 7 66 4 15 6 18 4 (4)
Respiratory 160 9 116 4 155 20 119 6
Flixotide/Flovent 49 36 38 48 43 67 31 49
Serevent 10 (1) 9 1 11 28 9 33
Seretide 14 >100 8 >100 5 >100 2 >100
Flixonase/Flonase 17 4 12 7 18 29 22 14
Ventolin 46 (8) 31 (20) 54 9 32 (8)
Becotide 12 (41) 10 (46) 13 (40) 14 (34)
Anti-bacterials 166 (9) 149 (2) 169 9 141 9
Augmentin 45 (6) 45 9 46 17 38 18
Zinnat/Ceftin 31 (2) 24 9 32 23 26 13
Fortum 24 (16) 17 (32) 25 4 19 (8)
Amoxil 24 (10) 22 15 22 (3) 18 3
Anti-virals 142 18 105 10 119 4 85 20
HIV 36 – 28 7 28 (33) 22 2
Trizivir – – – – – – – –
Combivir 15 16 11 17 10 (44) 8 82
Epivir 13 (20) 11 (6) 12 (32) 9 (27)
Retrovir 4 (27) 3 (26) 4 (46) 2 (32)
Ziagen 3 82 2 >100 3 >100 2 >100
Agenerase 1 >100 1 >100 (1) – 1 >100
Herpes 77 2 59 (5) 77 10 53 6
Valtrex 20 >100 5 38 7 78 5 60
Zovirax 57 (19) 54 (9) 70 6 48 2
Zeffix 19 >100 16 >100 13 >100 10 >100
Relenza 10 >100 1 >100 1 31 – –
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal 114 2 91 2 105 6 80 2
Avandia 9 >100 5 >100 3 >100 4 >100
Zantac 76 (8) 61 (6) 75 2 55 (5)
Lotronex – – – – – – – –
Vaccines 65 23 54 32 64 53 57 13
Hepatitis 21 (6) 19 (12) 20 (6) 24 14
Infanrix 11 8 7 23 14 >100 6 >100
Oncology and emesis 24 6 19 (4) 21 17 18 25
Zofran 17 3 15 (9) 15 15 13 22
Hycamtin 3 24 2 36 2 44 2 65
Cardiovascular 18 3 15 11 17 14 11 12
Coreg – – – – – – – –
Arthritis(Relafan) 2 (31) 2 (19) 3 (24) 3 (21)
Dermatologicals 42 (3) 35 (5) 46 12 29 (3)
Other 118 16 101 (9) 119 (1) 100 4
Pharmaceutical sales 940 8 757 4 892 13 704 9
Continuing business
Divested products 49 (11) 41 1 41 6 32 (4)
Famvir 5 (10) 6 2 4 (5) 5 (5)
Kytril 21 (8) 18 3 19 13 13 8
Other 23 (14) 17 – 18 3 14 (13)
Total pharmaceutical sales 989 7 798 4 933 13 736 9150 GlaxoSmithKline Financial record
Five-year record
A record of financial performance is provided analysed in accordance with current reporting practice.
2000 1999 1998 1997 1996
Sales by business segment £m £m £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 15,429 13,618 12,563 12,355 12,578
Consumer Healthcare 2,650 2,546 2,375 2,381 2,333
Retained businesses 18,079 16,164 14,938 14,736 14,911
Healthcare Services – 632 1,064 980 1,301
18,079 16,796 16,002 15,716 16,212
Pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area
Central nervous system disorders 3,279 2,720 2,400 1,875 1,422
Respiratory 2,789 2,382 2,096 1,795 1,756
Anti-bacterials 2,472 2,383 2,278 2,294 2,392
Anti-virals 1,899 1,610 1,347 1,421 1,359
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal 1,232 886 908 1,453 2,070
Vaccines 842 776 726 699 635
Oncology and emesis 710 613 549 512 461
Cardiovascular 463 449 390 320 330
Dermatologicals 249 254 243 236 240
Arthritis 210 275 301 292 288
Others 837 842 949 1,061 1,252
Continuing business 14,982 13,190 12,187 11,958 12,205
Divested products 447 428 376 397 373
15,429 13,618 12,563 12,355 12,578
Pharmaceutical sales by geographic area
USA 7,705 6,276 5,635 5,455 5,347
Europe 4,268 4,288 4,059 3,949 4,280
Rest of World:
Asia Pacific 1,049 929 876 962 980
Japan 832 704 592 679 768
Latin America 682 636 662 605 535
Middle East, Africa 511 461 468 438 403
Canada 382 324 271 267 265
Total Rest of World 3,456 3,054 2,869 2,951 2,951
15,429 13,618 12,563 12,355 12,578
Consumer Healthcare sales
OTC medicines 1,454 1,434 1,328 1,395 1,403
Oral care 642 614 584 550 528
Nutritional healthcare 535 488 459 433 402
Continuing business 2,631 2,536 2,371 2,378 2,333
Divested products 19 10 4 3 –
2,650 2,546 2,375 2,381 2,333Financial recordGlaxoSmithKline 151
2000 1999 1998 1997 1996
Business performance results – retained businesses £m £m £m £m £m
Sales 18,079 16,164 14,938 14,736 14,911
R&D expenditure 2,510 2,285 2,072 1,989 1,925
per cent of sales 14 14 14 13 13
Trading profit 5,026 4,378 4,191 4,372 4,640
per cent of sales 28 27 28 30 31
Net interest payable (182) (162) (192) (216) (295)
Profit before taxation 5,327 4,683 4,299 4,242 4,415
Earnings (profit attributable to shareholders) 3,697 3,204 2,891 2,835 2,938
Merger, restructuring and disposal of subsidiaries
Manufacturing and other restructuring (171) (443) (90) (81) (214)
Merger costs and product divestments 895 – – – –
Other items (22) (29) (721) – –
Profit/(loss) before taxation 702 (472) (811) (81) (214)
Profit/(loss) attributable to shareholders 457 (363) (512) (66) (174)
Total results
Sales 18,079 16,796 16,002 15,716 16,212
Profit before taxation 6,029 4,236 3,564 4,210 4,246
Earnings (profit attributable to shareholders) 4,154 2,859 2,435 2,818 2,809
Dividends (2,097) (2,005) (1,903) (1,794) (1,690)
Retained profit 2,057 854 532 1,024 1,119
Return on capital employed (per cent) 77.5 69.6 70.4 103.4 148.5
Return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before taxation as a percentage of average capital employed over the year.
Share statistics
Earnings per Ordinary Share (p) 68.5 46.7 39.9 47.7 49.6
Dividends per GlaxoSmithKline ordinary share (p):
Glaxo Wellcome shareholder 38.0 37.0 36.0 35.0 34.0
SmithKline Beecham shareholder 29.66 26.69 24.02 21.85 19.61
Dividends per GlaxoSmithKline ADS ($):
Glaxo Wellcome shareholder 1.16 1.20 1.19 1.17 1.16
SmithKline Beecham shareholder 0.91 0.86 0.81 0.74 0.63
Dividends are expressed in terms of a GlaxoSmithKline share/ADS. On the merger between Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham on
27thDecember 2000, shareholders and ADR holders received shares in GlaxoSmithKline in the following ratios:
for 1 Glaxo Wellcome share – 1 GlaxoSmithKline share
for 1 SmithKline Beecham share – 0.4552 GlaxoSmithKline shares
for 1 Glaxo Wellcome ADS – 1 GlaxoSmithKline ADS
for 1 SmithKline Beecham ADS – 1.138 GlaxoSmithKline ADSs
1 GlaxoSmithKline ADS represents 2 GlaxoSmithKline shares.152 GlaxoSmithKline Financial record
2000 1999 1998 1997 1996
Net assets £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets 10,322 9,292 9,095 8,494 8,525
Other assets and liabilities (756) (328) (816) (1,094) (1,426)
Net operating assets 9,566 8,964 8,279 7,400 7,099
Net debt (611) (2,357) (2,717) (2,830) (3,528)
8,955 6,607 5,562 4,570 3,571
Capital employed
Share capital and share premium 1,586 1,549 1,542 1,525 1,512
Goodwill reserve – – – (4,840) (4,865)
Other reserves 6,125 3,915 2,907 6,783 5,889
Equity shareholders’ funds 7,711 5,464 4,449 3,468 2,536
Minority interests 1,244 1,143 1,113 1,102 1,035
8,955 6,607 5,562 4,570 3,571
Capital expenditure (tangible fixed assets) 1,018 1,141 1,037 917 947
Number of employees
USA 22,745 21,272 32,565 31,676 30,947
Europe 45,929 47,767 45,408 41,291 39,883
Rest of World:
Asia Pacific 21,689 21,831 21,643 21,760 21,959
Japan 3,165 3,191 3,402 3,312 3,171
Latin America 7,704 8,286 7,702 7,729 7,655
Middle East, Africa 4,502 4,754 4,547 4,256 3,409
Canada 1,783 1,940 1,554 1,487 1,633
Total Rest of World 38,843 40,002 38,848 38,544 37,827
107,517 109,041 116,821 111,511 108,657
Manufacturing 35,681 37,420 44,780 42,282 44,381
Selling 43,325 41,775 41,095 39,588 36,438
Administration 11,980 12,767 15,064 14,439 13,421
Research and development 16,531 17,079 15,882 15,202 14,417
107,517 109,041 116,821 111,511 108,657
The number of employees is the number of employed staff at the end of the financial period.GlaxoSmithKline 153
Investor information
This section discusses shareholder return – the return to
shareholders in the form of dividends and share price movements –
and provides other information for shareholders.
154 Shareholder return
156 Taxation information for shareholders
157 Shareholder information
158 Share capital154 GlaxoSmithKline
Shareholder return
Merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham Dividends – Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
The Boards of Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc Dividends 2000
announced on 17th January 2000 that they had agreed the terms Both Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham announced
of a proposed merger of equals of the two companies, subject to dividends in respect of the year 2000 prior to the effective date of
shareholder approval and regulatory clearance. Based on the the merger on 27th December 2000.
relativestock market valuations of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline
2000 1999
Beecham in the months preceding the announcement of the Glaxo Wellcome pence pence
merger, shareholders of Glaxo Wellcome would hold approximately Interim 15 15
58.75 per cent and shareholders of SmithKline Beecham Second interim 23 –
approximately 41.25 per cent of the combined group. Final – 22
Following shareholder approvals, and clearance from regulatory Total dividend per Glaxo Wellcome share 38 37
authorities, the merger became effective on 27th December 2000.
The equivalent dividend per GlaxoSmithKline share is the same as
The merger was implemented by way of a scheme of arrangement. the dividend per Glaxo Wellcome share.
A new holding company, GlaxoSmithKline plc, acquired Glaxo
Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham. In accordance with the agreed The record date for the second interim dividend was
merger terms, shareholders of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline 22ndDecember 2000 in relation to Glaxo Wellcome shares
Beecham received, in exchange for their existing shares, shares in and26th December 2000 in relation to Glaxo Wellcome ADSs.
GlaxoSmithKline as follows: Thesecond interim dividend will be paid on 17th April 2001 to
for each Glaxo Wellcome ordinary share – 1 GlaxoSmithKline shareholders of Glaxo Wellcome at the record date and on
ordinary share 27thApril 2001 to ADR holders of Glaxo Wellcome at the record date.
for each SmithKline Beecham ordinary share – 0.4552 GlaxoSmithKline 2000 1999
ordinary shares. SmithKline Beecham pence pence
First interim 3.00 2.70
In the case of shares held as American Depositary Shares (ADSs),
Second interim 3.00 2.70
evidenced by American Depositary Receipts (ADRs), each Glaxo
Third interim 3.00 2.70
Wellcome ADS represented two Glaxo Wellcome ordinary shares
Fourth interim 4.50 4.05
and each SmithKline Beecham ADS represented five SmithKline
Total dividend per SmithKline Beecham share 13.50 12.15
Beecham ordinary shares. Each GlaxoSmithKline ADS represents
twoGlaxoSmithKline ordinary shares. Accordingly holders of Total equivalent dividend per GSK share 29.66 26.69
GlaxoWellcome ADRs and holders of SmithKline Beecham
ADRsreceived: The record date for the fourth interim dividend was 22nd December
for each Glaxo Wellcome ADS – 1 GlaxoSmithKline ADS 2000 in relation to SmithKline Beecham shares and 26th December
for each SmithKline BeechamADS – 1.138 GlaxoSmithKline ADSs 2000 in relation to SmithKline Beecham ADSs. The fourth interim
dividend will be paid on 17th April 2001 to shareholders and ADR
GlaxoSmithKline shares commenced trading on the London Stock holders of SmithKline Beecham at the record date.
Exchange and GlaxoSmithKline ADSs commenced trading on the
New York Stock Exchange on 27th December 2000. Dividends (ADSs)
As a guide to holders of ADRs, the tables below set out the
Taxation dividendspaid per ADS in US dollars in the last five years. The
As a general guide to shareholders, GlaxoSmithKline has received dividends are adjusted for UK tax credit less withholding tax,
advice that the merger should not have any direct effect on the tax whereapplicable, and are translated into US dollars at applicable
position of UK resident shareholders or US resident shareholders. exchange rates.
Further information is contained in the Scheme Document
issuedtoshareholders on 5thJuly 2000. General information Since 6th April 1999, claims for refunds of tax credits or dividends
concerning the UK and US tax effects of share ownership is set from the UK tax authorities are of negligible benefit to US
outin ‘Taxation information for shareholders’. Shareholders who shareholders.
areinany doubt about their taxation position should consult
Glaxo Wellcome SmithKline Beecham
theirown professional advisers. Year $ $
2000 1.10 0.99
1999 1.14 0.98
1998 1.19 0.92
1997 1.17 0.85
1996 1.16 0.74Shareholder return GlaxoSmithKline 155
Dividends – GlaxoSmithKline Share price
Share price 2000 GSK(£) GW(£) SB(£) FTSE
GlaxoSmithKline’s dividend policy was set out in the merger
documents issued to shareholders during 2000. At 1st January 2000 – 17.50 7.90 6930
High during the year – 21.10 9.55 6930
GlaxoSmithKline will initially pay dividends in line with Glaxo Low during the year – 14.40 6.71 6142
Wellcome’s 2000 dividend of 38 pence per Glaxo Wellcome share, At 26th December 2000 – 18.42 8.33 6098
which is equivalent to 38 pence per GlaxoSmithKline share. At 31st December 2000 18.90 – – 6222
Subsequently, assuming earnings continue to grow, GlaxoSmithKline
Increase/(decrease) over year 5% 5% (10%)
will at least maintain an annual dividend of 38 pence per share,
whilstbuilding dividend cover (the ratio between distributable Following the announcement of the merger between Glaxo
profitsand dividends) towards the industry average, which is closer Wellcomeand SmithKline Beecham in January 2000, the share
toSmithKline Beecham’s recent payout ratio of 40-50 per cent than pricesof the two separate companies tracked closely together
toGlaxoWellcome’s higher payout ratio. during2000. Over the period from 1st January 2000 to 26th
December 2000, the day before the merger was completed, both
GlaxoSmithKline will pay dividends quarterly. It is expected that theGlaxoWellcome share price and the SmithKline Beecham share
GlaxoSmithKline will normally follow the pattern established by price increased by five per cent. Whereas over the year to
SmithKline Beecham of a level dividend for each of the first three 31stDecember 2000, the FTSE 100 index declined ten per cent.
quarters, with a higher dividend in the fourth quarter.
The expected positive benefits of the merger and the strong
Dividend Calendar operatingperformances from both companies during the year helped
First quarter 2001 Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham to achieve an improved
share price performance relative to the UK stock market. In addition,
Results Announcement 24th April 2001
investor sentiment shifted away from technology sectors towards
Ex-dividend date 2nd May 2001
more defensive sectors such as pharmaceuticals during 2000.
Record date 4th May 2001
Payable 5th July 2001 Shares in GlaxoSmithKline started trading on 27th December 2000.
Between 27th December 2000 and 15th March 2001 the share price
Second quarter 2001 decreased by two per cent to £18.00. This compares to a decline in
Results Announcement 24th July 2001 the FTSE 100 index of sixper cent.
Ex-dividend date 1st August 2001
Record date 3rd August 2001 Market capitalisation
Payable 4th October 2001 The market capitalisation of GlaxoSmithKline at 31st December 2000
was £117billion. At that date GlaxoSmithKline was the third largest
Third quarter 2001 company by market capitalisation on the FTSE index.
Results Announcement 23rd October 2001
10 year share price performance
Ex-dividend date 31st October 2001
Record date 2nd November 2001 GW Share Price SB share price FTSE 100 Index
Payable 3rd January 2002
£8.33
Fourth quarter 2001
£18.42
Results Announcement 14th February 2002
6222
90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 Dec
Figures from 31st December 1990 to 31st December 2000
Over the 10 years from 31st December 1990 to 26th December 2000:
• the Glaxo Wellcome share price increased from £4.24 to £18.42,
an increase of 334 percent
• the SmithKline Beecham share price increased from £1.55 to
£8.33,an increase of 437 percent
Over the 10 years from 31st December 1990 to 31st December 2000:
• the FTSE 100 Index increased from 2143 to 6222, an increase
of 190 percent156 GlaxoSmithKline
Taxation information for shareholders
A summary of the principal tax consequences for holders of Stamp duty
Ordinary Shares and Ordinary Share ADRs for citizens or residents of UK stamp duty or, as the case may be, stamp duty reserve tax
the United Kingdom or the United States is set out below. It is not a (SDRT) will, subject to certain exemptions, be payable on the
complete analysis of all the possible tax consequences of purchase purchase of Ordinary Shares at a rate of 0.5 per cent of the
or ownership of these securities. Holders of these securities are purchase price. There is a minimum charge of £5 where a
advised to consult their own tax advisers with respect to the tax stampduty liability arises.
consequences of the purchase and ownership of their Ordinary
Shares or Ordinary Share ADRs, including, specifically, the US shareholders
consequences under state and local tax laws in the United States.
Taxation of dividends
The statements regarding the United Kingdom and the United The gross amount of dividends received (including amounts in
States tax laws and practices set out below are based on those laws respect of associated tax credit and UK withholding tax) is treated
and practices in force on the date of this report. as foreign source dividend income for US tax purposes. It is not
eligible for the dividend received deduction allowed to US
US holders of Ordinary Share ADRs generally will be treated as the
corporations. Dividends on Ordinary Share ADRs are payable in
owners of the underlying shares for the purposes of the current
USDollars; dividends on Ordinary Shares are payable in pounds
United States/United Kingdom double taxation conventions relating
Sterling. Dividends paid in pounds Sterling will be included in
to income and gains (Income Tax Convention), estate and gift taxes
income in the US Dollar amount calculated by reference to the
(Estate and Gift Tax Convention) and for the purposes of the US
exchange rate on the day the dividends are received by the holder.
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code).
UK taxes withheld from dividend distributions are eligible for credit
In October 1998, the UK and US Governments announced that they against the holder’s US federal income tax liability subject to
had agreed to renegotiate a new Income Tax Convention to replace generally applicable limitations. Each holder’s own tax position
the existing convention. Discussions started in January 1999 and are willdetermine whether effective use can be made of credits for
continuing. It is not possible to state what, if any, changes may UKwithholding taxes against the US tax liability.
arise for the taxation of dividends or capital gains as a result of the
From 6th April 1999, the rate of tax credits was reduced to one
renegotiation, or the likely date for the coming into effect of any
ninth and ACT was abolished. Consequently, claims for refunds
new convention.
oftax credits on dividends paid on or after this date are now
The following analysis deals with dividends paid after 6th April ofnegligible benefit to US shareholders.
1999. Advance Corporation Tax (ACT) was abolished for dividends
paid on or after that date. Taxation of capital gains
Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax,
UK shareholders butwill be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale
orother disposal of Ordinary Shares or Ordinary Share ADRs.
Taxation of dividends
From 6th April 1999, the rate of tax credits was reduced to one
Estate and gift taxes
ninth. As a result of compensating reductions in the rate of tax
Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not
ondividend income, there is no increase in the tax borne by UK
generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
resident individual shareholders. Tax credits are, however, no
longerrepayable to shareholders with a tax liability of less than
Stamp duty
theassociated tax credit.
UK stamp duty or, as the case may be, SDRT will, subject to certain
exemptions, be payable on any issue or transfer of Ordinary Shares
Taxation of capital gains
to the ADR custodian or depository at a rate of 1.5 per cent of
UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the
theirprice (if issued), the amount of any consideration provided
disposalof Ordinary Shares or Ordinary Share ADRs. They may
(iftransferred on sale), or their value (if transferred for no
alsobe entitled to indexation relief and taper relief on such sales.
consideration).
Indexation relief is calculated on the market value of shares at
31stMarch 1982 and on the cost of any subsequent purchases No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of an ADR. No UK
from the date of such purchase. Indexation relief for individual stamp duty should be payable on the transfer of an ADR provided
shareholders ceased on 5th April 1998. Taper relief is available that the instrument of transfer is executed and remains at all times
toindividual shareholders who hold or are deemed to hold outside the UK. Any stamp duty on the transfer of an ADR would
sharesfor at least three years before they are sold. be payable at a rate of 0.5 per cent of the consideration for the
transfer. Any sale of the underlying Ordinary Shares would result in
Inheritance tax liability to UK stamp duty or, as the case may be, SDRT at a rate of
Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the 0.5 per cent.
transfer of Ordinary Shares or Ordinary Share ADRs. Broadly, this tax
There is a minimum charge of £5 where a stamp duty liability arises.
is charged on the amount by which the value of the shareholder’s
estate is reduced as a result of any transfer by way of gift or other
disposal at less than full market value. If exceptional, such a gift or
other disposal is subject to both UK inheritance tax and US estate or
gift tax. The Estate and Gift Tax Convention would generally provide
for tax paid in the United States to be credited against tax payable
in the United Kingdom.GlaxoSmithKline 157
Shareholder information
Ordinary shares Annual General Meeting 2001
The company’s shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange. The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, 21st May 2001
Broad Sanctuary, Westminster,
Registrar London SW1P 3EE
The company’s share register is administered by Lloyds TSB
Registrars, who also provide the following services: The AGM is the company’s principal forum for communication with
private shareholders. In addition to the formal resolutions to be put
• GlaxoSmithKline Investment Plan
to the meeting, there will be a presentation by the Chief Executive
The plan enables shareholders to reinvest quarterly dividends and/or
Officer on the performance of the business and its future
make monthly investments in the company’s ordinary shares using a
development. There will be opportunity for questions to the Board,
special dealing arrangement.
and the Chairmen of the Board’s committees will take questions on
• GlaxoSmithKline Individual Savings Account matters relating to those committees.
The GlaxoSmithKline Individual Savings Account (ISA) is a tax-
Investors holding shares in the company through a nominee service
efficient way to invest inthecompany’s ordinary shares.
should arrange with that nominee service to be appointed a proxy
• GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Sponsored Nominee inrespect of their shareholding in order to attend and vote at the
The corporate sponsored nominee provides a facility for meeting. ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain
shareholders to hold shares without the need for share certificates. aproxy from The Bank of New York which will enable them to
Shareholders’ details will not be held on the main share register, attend the meeting and vote on the business to be transacted.
and so will remain confidential. ADRholders may instruct The Bank of New York as to how the
ordinary shares represented by their ADRs should be voted by
• www.shareview.co.uk
completing and returning the voting card provided by The Bank
The shareview portfolio service provides shareholders with
ofNew York in accordance with the instructions given.
information on their investment in the company. Shareholders may
register for this service at www.shareview.co.uk.
Financial reporting
Share dealing facility Financial reporting calendar 2001
NatWest Stockbrokers Limited offer a share-dealing service on Announcement of 1st Quarter Results 24th April 2001
behalf of the company to shareholders wishing to buy or sell
Announcement of 2nd Quarter Results 24th July 2001
thecompany’s shares.
Publication of Half-Year Report/Review August 2001
Share price information Announcement of 3rd Quarter Results 23rd October 2001
Share price information is available on the company’s website at Preliminary Announcement of Annual Results 14th February 2002
www.gsk.com. Information is also available on Ceefax, Teletext, Publication of Annual Report/Review March 2002
andfrom FT Cityline by calling 0906 003 5694 or 0906 843 5694
(calls charged at 60p a minute at all times).
Results announcements
The results announcements are issued to the London Stock
American Depositary Shares
Exchange(LSE), and made available on the LSE news service, and at
The company’s shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange the same time, or shortly afterwards, are issued to the media, are
inthe form of American Depositary Shares (ADSs) and these are made available on the company’s web site and are filed in the USA
evidenced by American Depositary Receipts (ADRs), each one of with the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) and the New York
whichrepresents two ordinary shares. Stock Exchange.
ADR programme administrator Financial reports
The ADR programme is administered by The Bank of New York, The company publishes an Annual Report and, for the investor not
who also provide the following service: needing the full detail of the Report, an Annual Review. An interim
Report and Review are published at the half-year.
• Global BuyDIRECT
Global BuyDIRECT is a direct ADS purchase/sale and dividend The financial reports are posted out to shareholders on the date of
reinvestment plan for ADR holders. publication and are available from the same date on the company’s
web site. Shareholders are provided with the Review and may elect
SmithKline Beecham plc Floating Rate Unsecured Loan Stock to receive also the Report.
1990/2010
Copies in printed form of the most recent, and previous, financial
The loan stock is not listed on any exchange but holders may reports are available in the UK from the company’s registrar and in
choose to have it redeemed by SmithKline Beecham plc at par, theUSA from the company’s Customer Response Centre.
i.e.£1 for every £1 of loan stock held, on the first business day of
March, June, September and December. Holders wishing to redeem Publications
all or part of their Loan Stock should complete the notice on the
The Environmental, Health &Safety Review 2000 is available from
back of their loan stock certificate and return it to the registrar,
the Secretariat at the company’s head office.
toarrive at least 30 days before the relevant redemption date.158 GlaxoSmithKline
Share capital
Nature of trading market US dollars per ADS
The Ordinary Shares of the company were listed on the London Fiscal periods to 26th December 2000 High Low
Stock Exchange on 27th December 2000. The Ordinary Shares were December 2000 583⁄8 54
also listed on the New York Stock Exchange (inthe form of November 2000 591⁄2 569⁄16
American Depositary Shares ‘ADSs’) from the same date. October 2000 593⁄4 561⁄2
September 2000 607⁄16 537⁄8
The following table sets out, for the periods indicated, the high and
Quarter ended 31st December 2000 607⁄16 54
low middle market quotations in pence for the Ordinary Shares on
Quarter ended 30th September 2000 6015⁄16 5313⁄16
the London Stock Exchange, as derived from its Daily Official List,
Quarter ended 30th June 2000 633⁄4 531⁄4
and the high and low last reported sales prices in US dollars for the
Quarter ended 31st March 2000 60 46
ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange, as derived from the New
Quarter ended 31st December 1999 631⁄4 501⁄8
York Stock Exchange Composite Tape.
Quarter ended 30th September 1999 5815⁄16 481⁄16
Information relating to the share and ADS prices for Glaxo Quarter ended 30th June 1999 703⁄4 54
Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham prior to the date of the merger Quarter ended 31st March 1999 763⁄16 601⁄16
is also given below. 1998 691⁄2 481⁄8
1997 48 301⁄8
GlaxoSmithKline Pence per Ordinary Share 1996 34 233⁄8
Fiscal periods from 27th December 2000 High Low
Quarter ended 31st March 2001* 1965 1715
SmithKline Beecham Pence per Ordinary Share
February 2001 1965 1804
Fiscal periods to 26th December 2000 High Low
January 2001 1892 1715
December 2000 915 828
27th to 31st December 2000 1920 1890
November 2000 955 909
October 2000 939 870
US dollars per ADS September 2000 927 864
Fiscal periods from 27th December 2000 High Low Quarter ended 31st December 2000 955 829
Quarter ended 31st March 2001* 56.95 50.82 Quarter ended 30th September 2000 927 804
February 2001 56.81 52.66 Quarter ended 30th June 2000 901 790
January 2001 56.88 50.94 Quarter ended 31st March 2000 865 671
27th to 31st December 2000 5613/16 553/8 Quarter ended 31st December 1999 891 688
Quarter ended 30th September 1999 881 699
*to 15th March 2001 Quarter ended 30th June 1999 928 762
Quarter ended 31st March 1999 929 799
Glaxo Wellcome Pence per Ordinary Share 1998 844 571
Fiscal periods to 26th December 2000 High Low 1997 650 389
December 2000 2017 1835 1996† 831 630
November 2000 2110 1982
October 2000 2068 1940
US dollars per ADS
September 2000 2048 1900
Fiscal periods to 26th December 2000 High Low
Quarter ended 31st December 2000 2110 1835
Quarter ended 30th September 2000 2048 1791 December 2000 661⁄2 6011⁄16
Quarter ended 30th June 2000 2032 1750 November 2000 681⁄16 647⁄16
Quarter ended 31st March 2000 1860 1440 October 2000 6813⁄16 6213⁄16
Quarter ended 31st December 1999 1931 1555 September 2000 685⁄8 601⁄2
Quarter ended 30th September 1999 1852 1507 Quarter ended 31st December 2000 6813⁄16 6011⁄16
Quarter ended 30th June 1999 2214 1720 Quarter ended 30th September 2000 685⁄8 60
Quarter ended 31st March 1999 2288 1861 Quarter ended 30th June 2000 7115⁄16 591⁄2
1998 2073 1465 Quarter ended 31st March 2000 713⁄16 521⁄2
1997 1457 894 Quarter ended 31st December 1999 723⁄8 561⁄2
1996 1028 771 Quarter ended 30th September 1999 693⁄16 561⁄16
Quarter ended 30th June 1999 745⁄8 603⁄4
Quarter ended 31st March 1999 763⁄8 651⁄16
1998 717⁄8 481⁄16
1997 535⁄8 3211⁄16
1996† 693⁄8 493⁄4
†Prior to 15th April 1996 SmithKline Beecham’s ordinary share capital
consisted of A and B shares. The 1996 high and low prices in the
tables above relate to A shares up to 15th April 1996 and to the
ordinary shares thereafter.Share capital GlaxoSmithKline 159
Analysis of shareholdings
Number of % of total Ordinary
Analysis of shareholdings at 31st December 2000: accounts accounts % of total Shares
Holding of Ordinary Shares
Up to 1,000 209,943 69.8 1.3 78,667,427
1,001 to 5,000 70,009 23.3 2.4 150,331,737
5,001 to 100,000 18,672 6.2 4.5 282,415,647
100,001 to 1,000,000 1,538 0.5 8.1 503,134,108
Over 1,000,000 501 0.2 83.7 5,211,113,255
Totals 300,663 100.0 100.0 6,225,662,174
Held by
Nominee companies 77,027 25.6 80.7 5,025,801,421
Investment and trust companies 670 0.2 0.3 15,861,769
Insurance companies 73 – 1.9 118,072,992
Individuals and other corporate bodies 222,891 74.2 7.5 465,371,560
BNY (Nominees) Limited 2 – 9.6 600,554,432
Totals 300,663 100.0 100.0 6,225,662,174
The Bank of New York’s holding held through BNY (Nominees) Limited represents the company’s ADR programme, whereby each ADS
represents two Ordinary Shares of 25p nominal value.
At 15th March 2001, the number of holders of record of Ordinary Shares in the USA was 1,119 with holdings of 1,779,822 Ordinary
Shares, and thenumberof registered holders of the ADRs was 53,088 with holdings of 276,452,583 ADRs. Because certain of these
Ordinary Shares and ADRs were held by brokers or other nominees, the number of holders of record or registered holders in the USA is not
representative of the number of beneficial holders orofthe residence of beneficial holders.
Control of company
As far as is known to the company, it is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by one or more corporations or by any government.
Thecompany does not know of any arrangements, the operation of which might result in a change in control of the company.
Substantial shareholdings
At 15th March 2001, the company had received notification of the following interest of three per cent or more in its Ordinary Shares:
• BNY(Nominees) Limited holds 600,984,302 Ordinary Shares representing 9.65 per cent. These Ordinary Shares are held on behalf of
holders of American Depositary Receipts.
As far as is known to the company, no other person was the owner of more than three per cent of the Ordinary Shares of the company.
Prior to the merger between Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham on 27th December 2000, several shareholders had an interest of
more than three per cent in the share capital of Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline Beecham (excluding The Bank of New York as depositary
forthe ADRs of each company). In the case of Glaxo Wellcome, at 29th February 2000 the company had received notification that The
Wellcome Trust Limited had an interest of 4.52 per cent. In the case of SmithKline Beecham, at 18th February 2000 the company had
received notification of the following interests: Mercury Asset Management Group Limited 3.42 per cent; Prudential Portfolio Managers
Limited 3.31 per cent; Barclays Global Investors (UK) Limited 3.08 per cent; Hill Samuel Offshore Trust Limited as Trustee of the SB
Employee Share Ownership Trust 3.18 per cent.
Directors and Officers
The interests of the Directors and Officers of the company (as defined in theCompanies Act 1985) in share options of the company are
given in the Remuneration report (page 37).
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting securityholders
There are currently no UK laws, decrees or regulations restricting the import or export of capital or affecting the remittance of dividends
orother payments to holders of the company’s Ordinary Shares who are non-residents of the UK. There are no limitations relating only to
non-residents of the UK under English law or the company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association on the right tobe a holder of, and
tovote in respect of, the company’s OrdinaryShares.160 GlaxoSmithKline
Cross reference to Form 20-F
This table has been provided as a cross reference from the information included in this Annual Report to the requirements of Form 20-F.
Item Page Item Page
1 Identity of directors, senior management and advisers n/a 8 Financial information
2 Offer statistics and expected timetable n/a A Consolidated statements and other financial information
Financial statements See Item 18
3 Key information
Legal proceedings 102–104
A Selected financial data 67
B Significant changes
D Risk factors 57
Note 2 – Post balance sheet event 78
4 Information on the company
9 The offer and listing
A History and development of the company 06
A Share price history 158
B Business overview
C Markets 158
Products 07–08
Competition 10 10Additional information
Regulation 11 B Memorandum and Articles of Association 35–36
Marketing and distribution 12 C Material contracts 161
Manufacture and supply 13 D Exchange controls 159
Research and development 14–21 E Taxation 156
Intellectual property 22–23 H Documents on display 161
Information technology 23–24 11Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk
Environment, health and safety 25 Treasury policies 60–61
Global community partnerships 26–27 Note 34 – Financial instruments and related disclosures 112–115
Access to medicines 28
12Description of securities other than equity securities n/a
C Organisational structure 136–141
13Defaults, dividend arrearages and delinquencies n/a
D Property, plant and equipment 24
Note 7 – Segment information 88 14Material modifications to the rights of security holders and
Note 18 – Tangible fixed assets 95 use of proceeds n/a
5 Operating and financial review and prospects 15Reserved
A Operating results 16Reserved
2000 and 1999 49–57
17Financial statements n/a
1999 and 1998 62–66
18Financial statements
Under US accounting principles 68
Directors’ statements of responsibility 70
B Liquidity and capital resources 58–61
Report by the auditors 71
C Research and development, patents and licenses, etc. 14–21,48
Consolidated statement of profit and loss 72–73
D Trend information 48
Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses 72–73
6 Directors, senior management and employees
Consolidated statement of cash flow 74–75
A Directors and senior management 30–32
Consolidated balance sheet 76
B Compensation
Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds 76
Remuneration report 37–46
Company balance sheet 77
C Board practices
Notes to the financial statements 78–135
Corporate governance 32–34
19Exhibits n/a
D Employees
GlaxoSmithKline people 24
Note 35 – Employee costs 116
Financial record 152
E Share ownership
GlaxoSmithKline people 24
Note 33 – Employee share schemes 108–111
7 Major shareholders and related party transactions
A Major shareholders 159
B Related party transactions 161Cross reference to Form 20-F GlaxoSmithKline 161
Cautionary factors that may affect future results Related party transactions
Cautionary Statements under the US Private Securities GlaxoSmithKline has a 27 per cent interest in Quest Diagnostics
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 Inc. The activities of Quest are not part of the company’s core
The Group’s Annual Report and Accounts and its period reports business, and the interest is held only as an investment.
filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (the
‘Commission’), including this Annual Report on Form 20-F for the Material contracts
year ended 31st December 2000 (the ‘2000 Form 20-F’), contain,
The Boards of Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc
and written information released, or oral statements made to the
announced on 17th January 2000 the terms of an agreement
public in the future by or on behalf of the Group may contain,
forthe proposed merger of the two companies. The merger
forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements give
wasimplemented by way of a scheme of arrangement on
theGroup’s current expectations or forecasts of future events.
27thDecember 2000, on which date GlaxoSmithKline plc
Aninvestor can identify these statements by the fact that they
acquired thewhole of the issued share capital of Glaxo
donot relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words
Wellcome plc andSmithKline Beecham plc.
such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’,
‘plan’, ‘believe’, and other words and terms of similar meaning in On 18th January 2001 GlaxoSmithKline completed the acquisition
connection with any discussion of future operating or financial of Block Drug Company Inc, a manufacturer of toothpaste and
performance. In particular, these include statements relating to other oral healthcare and consumer products, for US$1,240 million
future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future (£832 million).
performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales
efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal Documents on display
proceedings, and financial results.
Documents referred to in this Annual Report are available for
Any or all of the Group’s forward-looking statements in the 2000 inspection at the Registered Office of the company.
Form 20-F, in reports filed with the Commission, or in any other
public statements the Group makes, may turn out to be incorrect.
They can be affected by inappropriate or inaccurate assumptions
the Group might use as a basis for such forward-looking statements
or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors
mentioned in the discussion of the Group’s business in the 2000
Form 20-F will be important in determining future results.
Consequently, no forward-looking statement should be viewed as
or can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially.
The Group undertakes no obligation to publicly update any
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise. Investors should also note
the cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties relevant to the
Group’s business set out under ‘Risk factors’ (page 57). This
discussion is provided as permitted by the US Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.162 GlaxoSmithKline
Glossary of terms
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay
the charging and payment of tax. The US equivalent of tax depreciation.
Advance Corporation Tax (ACT) An advance payment of UK tax that was made when dividends are paid. No direct US
equivalent.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) Receipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GlaxoSmithKline ADR represents two ordinary
shares.
American Depositary Shares (ADSs) Ordinary Shares registered on the New York Stock Exchange.
Called-up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
Combined Code Guidelines adopted by the London Stock Exchange to address the principle aspects of
Corporate Governance.
The company GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Creditors Accounts payable.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies,
at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Debtors Accounts receivable.
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth
of the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per Ordinary Share Diluted income per Ordinary Share.
Dividend cover Profit attributable to shareholders/net income divided by dividends payable to shareholders.
Earnings per Ordinary Share Basic income per Ordinary Share.
Employee Share Ownership Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share based employee incentive plans.
Equity shareholders’ funds The aggregation of shares and reserves owned by shareholders. The US equivalent is
shareholders’ equity.
Finance lease Capital lease.
Free cash flow Cash resources available for payment of dividends to shareholders and for acquisitions.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
Gearing ratio Net debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds and minority interests.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements,
bymaking off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as brands, licences, patents, know-how and
marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Interest cover The number of times profit before interest exceeds net interest payable.
Interest payable Interest expense.
Interest receivable Interest income.
Non-equity minority interest Preference shares issued by a subsidiary to outside parties.
Preference shares Shares issued at varying dividend rates that are treated as outside interests.
Profit Income.
Profit and loss account reserve Retained earnings.
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Share option Stock option.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).
Shares in issue Shares outstanding.
Statement of total recognised gains and losses Statement of comprehensive income.
Stocks Inventories.
Subsidiary undertaking A company in which GlaxoSmithKline holds a majority shareholding and/or exercises control.
Tangible fixed assets Property, plant and equipment.
Turnover Revenue.GlaxoSmithKline 163
Index
page page page
A Direct-to-consumer advertising 12 G
Access to medicines 04,26,28 Directors Gearing ratio 48
Accountability and control 33–34 and senior management 46 Global communications 23
Accounting policies 79–81 Board and Executive 30–32 Global community partnerships 26–27
Accounting standards 70,71,78 Glaxo Wellcome 32 Global Supply Initiative 13
Acquisitions and disposals 105–107 interests 46,119 Glossary of terms 162
ADR programme administrator 157 interests in contracts 46 Going concern basis 70
American Depositary Shares 157 remuneration 38–45,70,118–119 Goodwill 80,94,101
Animals and research 04,21 report 02–68 Governmental investigations 103
Annual General Meeting 33,157 responsibility 70,71 Group companies 136–141
Antitrust 103 service contracts 39
Anti-bacterials 08,10,52,62 share options 41 H
Anti-virals 08,10,52,64 share ownership guidelines 39 Healthcare Services 54,65,66,150
Associated companies 34,55,66,80,90,95 SmithKline Beecham 32 Hedging 61,115
Audit Committee 30,32,34 Diversity 24 History and development of the company 06
Auditors Divested businesses 48,54,55,65,66 HIV and AIDS 04,26,28
appointment 33 Divested products 09,54,55,58,63,64,
I
audit report 71 65,146–149,150
Impairment of fixed assets 80
fees 89 Dividends 93,151,154,155
Incorporation of GlaxoSmithKline plc 32
Information technology 23–24
B E
Intangible assets 80,94
Balance sheet 58,67,76,77,83 Early drug discovery 20
Intellectual property 22,23,102–103
Block Drug Inc 09,13,54,78,161 Earnings/earnings per share 48,56,66,67,72–73
Interest cover 48
Board and Executive 30–32 84–85,92,144–145
Interest rate risk management 60,112,114
Board committees 32 e-business 24
Internal control 33–34,70
Business performance 02,48,54-56,65,67,72–74, Employees
Investments 59,66,80,90,95,96,105–107,112
84–85,144–145,151 costs 116–117
Investor information 153–159
Business segments 06 disabled 24
diversity 24
J
C numbers 116,152
Joint ventures and
Capital employed 152 performance and reward 24
associates 34,55,66,80,90,95,105–107
Capital expenditure 152 share schemes 24,80,108–111
Cardiovascular 09 training and development 24 L
Cash flow 58,74–75 Employee share ownership trusts 111 Leases 80
Cautionary factors that may affect Environment, health and safety 25,33 Legal proceedings 102–104
future results 161 Equity risk management 61 Liquid investments 98
Centralnervoussystem(CNS)disorders08,10,50,62 European Monetary Union 61 Loans and overdrafts 98
Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery 20 Exchange controls 159 Lymphatic Filariasis 26
Chairman and Chief Executive Exchange rates 47,50,62,67,81
Officer’s statement 03–04 External suppliers 13 M
Charitable donations 27 Malaria 26
Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) 25 F Manufacture and supply 13
Combined Code 34,70 Fair values 112,113 Manufacturing and other restructuring 55,66
Commitments 99 Finance Committee 30,32 Market capitalisation 59,155
Committed facilities 115 Financial assets and liabilities 61,98,112–115 Marketing and distribution 12
Community programmes 26–27 Financial highlights 02 Maturity and counterparty risk 60
Competition 10 Financial instruments and Memorandum and Articles of
Consumer Healthcare09,10–11,12,13,21,23,54,65 related disclosures 61,112–115 Association 35–36
Contact details back cover Financial period 78 Merger 82–85
Contaminated land 25 Financial position and resources 58 accounting 68,82
Contingent liabilities 97 Financial record accounting alignment 82
Control of company 159 5-year record 150–152 adjustments 82–85
Corporate Executive Team 31,32 quarterly trend 144–149 general 13,32,55,56,60,78,82,128,154
Corporate governance 29–36 Financial reporting calendar 157 terms 82
Cross reference to Form 20-F 160 Financial statements 72–135 Metabolic and gastro-intestinal 08,10,52,64
Financial summary 02
D
Financial trends and ratios 48 N
Derivative financial instruments 61,81
Fixed asset investments 95 Net debt 48,58,59,61,74,75,98–99,113
Dermatologicals 09
Foreign exchange risk management 60–61,112 Net interest payable 48,55,66,90
Description of business 05–28,78
Forward-looking statements 02,11,57,161 New product development 21
Dialogue with shareholders 33
New product supply 21
Non-Executive Directors 30,32,38,39,40,44,45,118
Noon buying rate 67
Nutritional healthcare 54,65,150164 GlaxoSmithKline Index
page page
O S
Oncology and emesis 09,52,64 Sales
Operating and financial review Consumer Healthcare 09,54,65,150
and prospects 47–68 Pharmaceuticals 08–09,12,49–53,
Oral care 09,54,65,150 62–65,146–149,150
Other operating income/(expense) 55,66,89 SB Clinical laboratories 104,105,106
Outlook 03,57,58 Segment information 86–88,150
Over-the-counter (OTC) medicines 09,54,65,150 Selected financial data 67
Senior management – compensation
P
and interests 46
Patents 22,23
Share capital 100,158
Payment policies 59
Share premium account 100
Pension and other post-retirement
Share price 155,157,158
benefits 79,116–117,133–135
Share purchases 61
Pipeline 16–19
Share statistics 151
Post balance sheet events 78
Shareholder information 33,157
Presentation of financial statements 78
Shareholder return 02,154–155
Price controls 11
Shareholders’ funds 59
Principal financial statements in US$ 142–143
Shareholdings – analysis 159
Products
Statement of total
approvals and submissions 14
recognised gains and losses 72–73,84–85
Consumer Healthcare 09,10–11,21,23,65
Strategic Master Plan 13
delivered to market 15
development pipeline 16–19 T
discontinuations 15 Taxation 56,66,80,90–91,154
liability 103 Taxation information for shareholders 156
new product development 21 Tax rate 48,91
new product supply 21 Trade marks 05,07,23
Pharmaceuticals 02,07–09,10–14,22–23, Treasury operations 34,60
49–53,62–65,146–150 Treasury policies 60
Profit and loss account 48,67,72–73,84–85 Tuberculosis 26
Property, plant and equipment 24
Provisions for liabilities and charges 59,97 U
UK segment 132
R
US GAAP – reconciliation to US accounting
Reconciliation of movements in
principles 120–135
equity shareholders’ funds 76
consolidated balance sheet 121
Registrar 157
consolidated income statement 122–123
Regulation 11
comprehensive income and
Remuneration & Nominations
changes in shareholders’ equity 122–123
Committee 30,32,38
consolidated statement of cash flows 124,129
Remuneration report 37–46
earnings per share/ADS 122–123,130
Report of the Directors 02–68
material differences between
Research and development
UK and US GAAP 125–129
accounting policy 79
post-retirement benefits 133–135
animals and research 21
purchase accounting 120,126–127
Consumer Healthcare 21
results under USaccounting principles 68
diseases of the developing world 28
segment information 131–132
expenditure 48,54,66
selected financial data 67
Pharmaceuticals 14
taxation 130
pipeline 16–19
US$ – convenience translation of principal
Respiratory 08,10,50,62
financial statements 142–143
Return on capital employed 151
Revenue – accounting policy 79 V
Risk factors 57,161 Vaccines 09,10,52,64
Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC) 34
W
World economy 49
World market 49www.gsk.com