1Annual review 2003
3002
tropeR
launnA
enilKhtimSoxalG
Do more, feel better, live longer
Improving performance
ever y day
www.gsk.com
ANNUAL REPORT 2003GlaxoSmithKline 01
Mission Our global quest is to improve the quality of human life GlaxoSmithKline plc
by enabling people to do more, feel better and live longer. Annual Report
for the year ended 31st December 2003
Our Spirit We undertake our quest with the enthusiasm of entrepreneurs,
excited by the constant search for innovation. We value
performance achieved with integrity. We will attain
success as a world class global leader with each and every
one of our people contributing with passion and an unmatched
sense of urgency.
Strategic Intent We want to become the indisputable leader in our industry.
GlaxoSmithKline plc is an English public limited company.
Its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the
New York Stock Exchange.
Contents
This report is the Annual Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for
the year ended 31st December 2003, prepared in accordance
Report of the Directors
with United Kingdom requirements.
02 Financial summary
A summary report on the year, the Annual Review 2003, 03 Joint statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
intended for the investor not needing the full detail of the 05 Description of business
Annual Report, is produced as a separate document. The 33 Corporate governance
Annual Review includes the joint statement by the Chairman 43 Remuneration Report
and the Chief Executive Officer, a summary review of operations, 59 Operating and financial review and prospects
summary financial statements and a summary remuneration
report. Financial statements
86 Directors’ statements of responsibility
The Annual Review is issued to all shareholders. The Annual
87 Independent Auditors’ report
Report is issued to shareholders who have elected to receive it.
88 Consolidated statement of profit and loss
Both documents are available on GlaxoSmithKline’s corporate
88 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses
website – at www.gsk.com.
90 Consolidated statement of cash flow
92 Consolidated balance sheet
Website
92 Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
GlaxoSmithKline’s website, www.gsk.com gives additional
93 Company balance sheet
information on the Group. Information made available on
94 Notes to the financial statements
the website does not constitute part of this Annual Report.
Investor information
Front cover
Living next to the Welsh coastline in the UK naturally drew 150 Financial record
young Jack Fraser to the sea and the chance to develop his 159 Shareholder return
surfing skills. However, his asthma and symptoms such as 160 Shareholder information
tightness in his chest meant that he could not breathe properly 161 Share capital
and was reluctant to go outside. His mother, Catherine, heard 163 Taxation information for shareholders
about Seretide from a friend and eventually obtained a
164 Glossary of terms
prescription for her son.
The Annual Report was approved by the Board
The result? Jack can be seen practising his surfing skills on a of Directors on 3rd March 2004 and published
regular basis and has also developed a keen interest in golf. on 26th March 2004. Contact details02 GlaxoSmithKline GlaxoSmithKline 03
Financial summary Joint statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
2003 2002 Growth
Statutory results £m £m CER% £% Fundamentally, the pharmaceutical industry has a bright future. This is not the place to debate the rights and wrongs of these
Turnover 21,441 21,212 5 1 Ageing populations in the developed world and continuing un-met challenges to the pharmaceutical industry’s traditional business
medical need in many diseases mean that demand for new and model. It is the place for us to reassure shareholders that we have
Trading profit 6,525 5,662 21 15
better pharmaceutical products will continue to grow strongly in every aspect of that model under review in order to continue the
Profit before taxation 6,329 5,506 21 15 the years ahead. development of medicines on a basis which reconciles our
Earnings/Net income 4,484 3,915 20 15 responsibility to society with a fair return to shareholders. We are
Our industry, however, also faces formidable challenges, some of
determined to change with the times imaginatively, flexibly and
Basic earnings per share 77.2p 66.2p 23 17 which threaten the pharmaceutical industry’s traditional business
effectively, and to fight for what we believe will best serve the
model. Shareholders should be reassured that GlaxoSmithKline’s
Dividends per share 41.0p 40.0p long term interests of GlaxoSmithKline as one of the world’s
management understands these challenges and the company is
leading producers of medicines.
making substantial progress in responding to them.
Merger, restructuring and disposal of subsidiaries
The industry is currently experiencing a decline in Research & Robust financial performance in 2003
Trading profit (395) (1,032)
Development productivity. GlaxoSmithKline has tackled this by During 2003, our business performance earnings per share grew
Profit before taxation (390) (1,011) radically redesigning its R&D organisation. The new structure, 10 per cent, which was in line with the guidance we had issued.
Earnings/Net income (281) (712) based on seven Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery, is Trading profit rose nine per cent to £6.9 billion and we had an
working well and we are developing more high quality compounds operating cash flow of £7.0 billion. We also raised the dividend
Earnings per share (4.9)p (12.1)p
than ever before. In December, at our R&D Day, we were able to to 41 pence.
demonstrate the progress we have made in building an
Business performance exceptionally strong product pipeline that will provide the fuel for Total pharmaceutical turnover grew five per cent to just over
£18 billion, with US sales also up five per cent to £9.4 billion. This
Turnover 21,441 21,212 5 1 future growth.
achievement confirms the underlying strength and resilience of our
Trading profit 6,920 6,694 9 3 We are also seeing an increasingly aggressive generics industry business, particularly given continued generic erosion during the
Profit before taxation 6,719 6,517 8 3 which is eroding the period for which a medicine is patent year to sales of Augmentin and the introduction of generic
protected – protection which is crucial to enabling the competition to Paxil in September.
Adjusted earnings/Net income 4,765 4,627 8 3
pharmaceutical industry to sustain its huge investment in R&D.
Adjusted earnings per share 82.1p 78.3p 10 5 The Consumer Healthcare business also did well, making a trading
GlaxoSmithKline will, of course, continue to defend its intellectual
profit of £603 million for the year, up 16 per cent.
property vigorously. Meanwhile we are mitigating the impact of
Business performance, which is the primary performance measure used by management, is presented after excluding merger items,
generic competition by introducing improved versions of
integration and restructuring costs and the disposal of businesses. Management believes that exclusion of these items provides a better 2004 – a year of transition before returning to growth in 2005
established medicines and driving growth of our other key
reflection of the way in which the business is managed and gives an indication of the performance of the Group in terms of those elements 2004 will be a particularly challenging year as we see the full
products. This has enabled GlaxoSmithKline to deliver very robust
of revenue and expenditure which local management is able to influence. This information, which is provided in addition to the statutory impact of generic competition to Paxil and the introduction of
financial performance despite generic competition to some of our
results prepared under UK GAAP, is given to assist shareholders to gain a clearer understanding of the underlying performance of the business generic Wellbutrin. Together, these products had US sales of
most important products over the last two years.
and to increase comparability for the periods presented. £2.1 billion last year. For most companies, a threat to sales on this
Pricing pressures also continue. In the USA, this has come from scale would be catastrophic. But we expect to be able to weather
Merger and integration items represent those items that have arisen as a result of the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
pressure to cut pharmaceutical prices for senior citizens and efforts the impact well – partly because of our size, partly through the
and the acquisition of Block Drug. Restructuring costs arise from the merger and acquisition and from manufacturing restructuring
to allow the unregulated import of lower priced drugs from introduction of improved versions of these medicines and partly
programmes that had already been agreed by Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham before the date of the merger. These items by their
abroad. GlaxoSmithKline has played a leading role in discussions by driving growth of the other key products in our broad portfolio.
nature are considered to be outside the normal business expenditure of GlaxoSmithKline and are not expected to occur on a regular basis.
with the US Government and others to address these issues, while In fact, we expect to be able to deliver 2004 earnings per share
Statutory results which appear on pages 88 and 89 include these items. Other costs associated with restructuring activities that arise outside
ensuring patient safety is protected. We are pleased that the US (EPS) at least in line with business performance EPS in 2003 (at
these specific restructuring programmes are not treated as exceptional items.
Government has passed a Medicare prescription drug benefit constant exchange rates), before returning to growth in 2005.
The Group, as a multinational business, operates in many countries and earns revenues and incurs costs in many currencies. The results of which will bring much needed help to patients in purchasing their This will represent a solid achievement for GlaxoSmithKline. Many
the Group, as reported in sterling, are therefore affected by movements in exchange rates between sterling and overseas currencies. The prescription drugs. In Europe the situation is more complex, with other pharmaceutical companies, which have faced a similar loss
Group uses the average exchange rates prevailing during the year to translate the results of overseas companies into sterling. The currencies government healthcare budgets coming under increasing cost of sales as a result of generic competition, have seen their earnings
that most influence these translations are the US dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen. During 2003 average sterling exchange rates restraints. This means there is a continual squeeze on our returns, fall significantly.
were stronger against the US dollar and the Japanese Yen by nine per cent and two per cent respectively, and weaker against the Euro and an even greater need for us to continue demonstrating the
2004 will be a year of transition for GlaxoSmithKline. By the end
by nine per cent compared with 2002. value of our medicines.
of 2004 the company’s profile will be transformed. As well
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Group’s practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange rate (CER) growth. Finally, in the developing world, there is the ongoing challenge to as having one of the most broadly-based product portfolios in
This represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates used to determine the results of overseas companies in sterling had remained intellectual property rights and the belief that the pharmaceutical the industry, from 2005 onwards we will also have one of the
unchanged from those used in the previous year. CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual industry’s contribution to persistent health crises should include lowest exposures to patent expiries measured as a percentage of
exchange rates. pricing medicines at or near cost. GlaxoSmithKline has led the way, turnover. At the same time, we expect to see a big increase in
pioneering the availability of preferentially priced medicines and the number of major new compounds entering Phase III trials
vaccines. We believe we remain the only pharmaceutical company from our promising pipeline.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
The Group's reports filed with or furnished to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including this document and written information released, conducting research into the prevention and treatment of the
or oral statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, may contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements give World Health Organization’s three priority diseases of the Broad product portfolio drives growth
the Group's current expectations or forecasts of future events. An investor can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical developing world; HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria. We are pleased with GlaxoSmithKline’s ability to continue delivering robust
or current facts. They use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’ and other words and terms of similar meaning the agreement reached by the World Trade Organization in August pharmaceuticals sales growth, despite these generic challenges,
in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective
which allows countries unable to manufacture medicines to import is primarily due to its exceptionally broad product portfolio of
products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such
generics under compulsory licences, but gives assurances that this fast-growing, high-value products. GlaxoSmithKline is a global
as legal proceedings, and financial results. The Group undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise. will not be abused. Nevertheless, the external pressure to amend leader in several therapeutic areas including respiratory, anti-viral,
the TRIPS agreement, which protects intellectual property, remains central nervous system, diabetes and vaccines.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors including those in this
strong.
document could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are not limited to,
those discussed under ‘Risk factors’ on pages 74 to 76 of this Annual Report.
The bases for business performance results and CER growth rates are explained on page 2.04 GlaxoSmithKline Joint statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer GlaxoSmithKline 05
Description of business
The company now has 10 major products (accounting for At the same time, healthcare and the way it is delivered and
£7.6 billion of sales) growing in strong double digits. These include funded provoke much debate. Our third Corporate Responsibility
Seretide/Advair for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary Report sets out the issues that we face in this area and explains
disease (COPD), which grew 39 per cent during the year to how we are addressing them. Where possible, performance The Description of business discusses the activities, the
£2.2 billion, and is now one of the top 10 pharmaceutical brands measures are included to show our progress. resources and the operating environment of the business and
in the world. Our diabetes treatments Avandia/Avandamet also identifies developments and achievements in 2003, under the
Significant achievements this year include the progress we are
continue to perform well, with sales of £0.9 billion, up 24 per cent. following headings:
making in our programmes for the developing world, such as our
Products like Valtrex for herpes and Lamictal for epilepsy are
growing very strongly and are now approaching blockbuster status. efforts to eliminate lymphatic filariasis (LF or elephantiasis), a The business
Also both our vaccines and HIV/AIDS businesses have sales of over debilitating disease affecting 120 million people. The World Health 06 History and development of the company
£1 billion. Organization target is to eliminate LF by 2020, by which time we 06 GlaxoSmithKline strategy
expect to have donated six billion treatments of our medicine 07 Products
albendazole, worth around $1 billion. This is one of the
New product launches in 2003 and 2004
pharmaceutical industry’s largest ever donation programmes. Operating environment
Several new and important products were introduced in 2003.
10 Competition
Highlights included US launches of Wellbutrin XL, a new and We reduced the not-for-profit prices of our HIV treatments twice
11 Regulation
improved version of the anti-depressant, and Levitra for erectile in 2003, taking the price of Combivir down from $1.70 to just
dysfunction. Approval was received for Lexiva for HIV/AIDS, Advair 65 cents a day. However, much more needs to be done to tackle
Operating activities
for COPD and Lamictal for bi-polar disorder in the USA, and the enormous HIV/AIDS crisis. Real progress will only be made
13 Marketing and distribution
Avandamet for diabetes in Europe. if responsibility is shared by all sectors of global society –
14 Manufacture and supply
governments, international agencies and companies such as
We plan to make several significant product launches and filings 15 Research and development
GlaxoSmithKline.
during 2004. These include: solifenacin for over-active bladder
(developed with our partner Yamanouchi Pharmaceuticals Ltd of We are very proud of our global community investment of Operating resources
Japan); Avandaryl, a fixed-dose combination treatment which will £338 million, 5.3 per cent of the Group’s pre-tax profit. This 24 Intellectual property
further extend the Avandia family of treatments for type 2 included £125 million for the Group’s Patient Assistance 25 Information technology
diabetes; and Epivir plus Ziagen, the first once-daily combination Programs and other initiatives for low-income groups in the 26 GlaxoSmithKline people
HIV/AIDS treatment to be available in a single tablet. USA and £105 million of humanitarian product donations. 26 Property, plant and equipment
Building a strong and diverse R&D pipeline Governance The business and society
2003 provided the clearest evidence yet of our success in creating The Financial Reporting Council’s new Combined Code on 27 Corporate responsibility
the most productive R&D organisation in the industry. At our R&D Corporate Governance was published in 2003. The Board supports 27 Responsibility for environment, health and safety
Day in December we demonstrated how our re-designed R&D the New Code and has moved quickly to bring GlaxoSmithKline’s 28 Access to healthcare in the developed world
operation is delivering a product pipeline of exceptional diversity, governance procedures substantially in line with the best practices 28 Access to healthcare in the developing world
quality and quantity that will drive the future growth of the that flow from the Code. 29 Global community investment
company.
Discussion of the Group’s management structures and corporate
Acknowledgements
We now have 148 projects in clinical development. These span a governance procedures is set out in Corporate governance
During the year there were a number of changes to the Board. The
variety of therapeutic areas and encompass a number of (pages 33 to 42).
Board now benefits from the direct presence of Dr Tachi Yamada,
pioneering approaches to treating patients, including exciting new
who has great knowledge and experience in medical practice as The Remuneration Report gives details of the Group’s policies on
compounds in the areas of oncology and cardio-vascular disease.
well as the pharmaceutical industry. Three new Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration and the amounts earned by Directors
The 148 projects include 83 new chemical entities (NCEs), 45 Directors joined the Board during the year: Larry Culp, President and senior management in 2003 (pages 43 to 58).
product line extensions (PLEs) and 20 vaccines. 46 of the NCEs are of Danaher Corporation; Crispin Davis, Chief Executive of Reed Discussion of the Group’s operating and financial performance
now in clinical Phases II and III/registration and we expect to make Elsevier PLC; and Sir Robert Wilson, Chairman of BG Group plc. and financial resources is given in the Operating and financial
a record number of filings over the next five years. As many as 20 They each bring many years of experience and successful track review and prospects (pages 59 to 83).
of these compounds have the potential to reach blockbuster status. records in different industries. Their undoubted skills further
strengthen the Board. In this report: ‘GlaxoSmithKline’ or the ‘Group’ means GlaxoSmithKline
Included in the many promising compounds highlighted in
plc and its subsidiary undertakings and the ‘company’ means
December were: ‘016, a first of its kind dual kinase inhibitor for Sir Roger Hurn and Paul Allaire left the Board in June. Dr Michèle
GlaxoSmithKline plc. ‘GlaxoSmithKline share’ means an Ordinary Share
the treatment of breast and lung cancer; Cervarix, a vaccine with Barzach, John McArthur and Donald McHenry will step down from
of GlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p. An American Depositary Share (ADS)
the potential to prevent more than 70 per cent of cervical cancers; the Board after the AGM in May. We express our appreciation to
represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares.
‘162, a next-generation anti-depressant; Lp-PLA2 inhibitors which each of them for their contribution to the company and for their
target a newly identified risk factor for heart disease; odiparcil, a dedicated and effective service to the Board. Throughout this report, figures quoted for market size, market share
and market growth rates relate to the 12 months ended 30th
novel anti-blood clotting treatment, and ‘381, the first dual action
In conclusion, on behalf of the Board and the Corporate Executive September 2003 (or later where available). These are GlaxoSmithKline
COX-2 inhibitor targeting both inflammatory and neuropathic pain.
Team, we thank you, our shareholders, for your continued support estimates based on the most recent data from independent external
Building on our strong heritage in respiratory medicine, we are
through this challenging time. sources, valued in sterling at relevant exchange rates. Figures quoted
also developing a next-generation Seretide/Advair – a once-daily
for product market share reflect sales by GlaxoSmithKline and licensees.
combination of a new long-acting corticosteroid, ’698, and a
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report are trade marks
long-acting selective beta2 agonist, ’797, developed with
of GlaxoSmithKline or associated companies, with the exception of
Theravance Inc.
Amaryl and Nicoderm, trade marks of Aventis , Baycol and Levitra,
trade marks of Bayer, Bexxar, a trade mark of Corixa Corporation,
Corporate responsibility
Hepsera, a trade mark of Gilead Services, Micropump, a trade mark of
Corporate responsibility has particular resonance for the Flamel Technologies, Natrecor, a trade mark of Scios, Navelbine, a trade
pharmaceutical sector. Our business is creating medicines to treat Sir Christopher Hogg J P Garnier mark of Pierre Fabre Médicament, and Pritor, a trade mark of
and prevent disease – something that society needs and values. Chairman Chief Executive Officer Boehringer Ingelheim, all of which are used under licence by the Group.06 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 07
The business
History and development of the company Building a strong and diverse R&D pipeline Products – Pharmaceuticals
The Group is aiming to create the most productive discovery Therapeutic area Trade mark Compound Mechanism Indication (may vary by country)
GlaxoSmithKline plc, and its subsidiary and associated pipeline in the industry for the benefit of patients, consumers and
Central nervous Seroxat/Paxil paroxetine selective serotonin re-uptake depression, panic, anxiety
undertakings, constitute a major global healthcare group society. This includes developing a focused portfolio strategy to system inhibitor
engaged in the creation, discovery, development, manufacture support the pipeline and manage the full life cycle of compounds Wellbutrin bupropion noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitor depression
and marketing of pharmaceutical and consumer health-related from launch through to over-the-counter products. This strategy Imigran/Imitrex sumatriptan 5HT agonist migraine, cluster headache
1
products. includes selective in-licensing and efficient execution of Naramig/Amerge naratriptan 5HT 1 agonist migraine
development, commercialisation and the supply chain processes. Lamictal lamotrigine sodium channel modulator epilepsy, bipolar disorder
GlaxoSmithKline has its corporate head office in London at:
Requip ropinirole dopamine D2/D3 agonist parkinson’s disease
GlaxoSmithKline’s R&D organisation measures productivity not Zyban bupropion SR noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitor smoking addiction
980 Great West Road
just by the number and innovation of the products it creates, but
Brentford Respiratory Flixotide/Flovent fluticasone propionate inhaled anti-inflammatory asthma, COPD
also by the commercial value of the products and their ability to
Middlesex TW8 9GS Serevent salmeterol xinafoate bronchodilator asthma, COPD
address the unmet needs of all consumers, including patients, Seretide/Advair salmeterol and fluticasone bronchodilator/anti-inflammatory asthma, COPD
England
healthcare professionals, budget holders and regulators, each with propionate
Tel: 020 8047 5000
their own perspective on what constitutes a valuable new product. Flixonase/Flonase fluticasone propionate intranasal anti-inflammatory hayfever, perennial rhinitis
GlaxoSmithKline also has operational headquarters in Philadelphia, Further details are given on pages 15 to 23. Ventolin salbutamol/albuterol bronchodilator bronchospasm
and Research Triangle Park, USA, and operations in some 117 Becotide/Beclovent beclomethasone dipropionate inhaled anti-inflammatory asthma
countries, with products sold in over 130 countries. The principal Product commercialisation Beconase beclomethasone dipropionate intranasal anti-inflammatory hayfever, perennial rhinitis
research and development (R&D) facilities are in the UK, the USA, GlaxoSmithKline links research and commercial operations closely Anti-virals Trizivir lamivudine, zidovudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV/AIDS
Japan, Italy and Belgium. Products are currently manufactured in in order to maximise the value of the portfolio. As compounds and abacavir
some 38 countries. are being developed and tested, innovative marketing campaigns Combivir/Biovir lamivudine and zidovudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV/AIDS
Epivir/3TC lamivudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV/AIDS
and powerful and focused sales efforts are being planned. Where
The major markets for the Group’s products are the USA, Japan, Retrovir/AZT zidovudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV/AIDS
appropriate within markets, the Group aims to build strong
France, Germany, the UK and Italy. Ziagen abacavir reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV/AIDS
relationships with patients as the ultimate consumers of its
Agenerase amprenavir protease inhibitor HIV/AIDS
GlaxoSmithKline plc is a public limited company incorporated on medicines. Further details are given on page 13 and page 22.
Lexiva fosamprenavir protease inhibitor HIV/AIDS
6th December 1999 under English law. On 27th December 2000 Valtrex/Zelitrex valaciclovir DNA polymerase inhibitor shingles, genital herpes
the company acquired Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Global competitor Zovirax aciclovir DNA polymerase inhibitor herpes infections, shingles,
Beecham plc, both English public limited companies, by way of a GlaxoSmithKline operates in an increasingly global environment chicken pox, cold sores
scheme of arrangement for the merger of the two companies. where scale offers significant advantages. The Group leverages Zeffix/Heptavir/ lamivudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor chronic hepatitis B infection
Both Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham were major global that scale by building interdependent businesses that share Heptodin/Epivir HBV
healthcare businesses. successful practices across business boundaries and geographic Anti-bacterials Augmentin amoxicillin/clavulanate broad spectrum oral/injectable bacterial infections
borders. Common approaches to management processes and /anti-malarials antibiotic
On 1st October 2001 Glaxo Wellcome plc changed its name to
business functions are used by an internationally diverse and Zinnat/Ceftin cefuroxime axetil oral antibiotic bacterial infections
GlaxoSmithKline Services plc and on 28th March 2002 became talented management team in order to create and sustain Fortum/Fortaz ceftazidime injectable antibiotic severe, life threatening infections
GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited. Historical references to Glaxo Bactroban mupirocin topical antibiotic skin infections
competitive advantage in all markets. In addition, GlaxoSmithKline
Wellcome plc in this document have not been changed. Amoxil amoxicillin broad spectrum oral/injectable bacterial infections
continues to demonstrate its commitment to corporate
antibiotic
responsibility by helping to improve access to better medicines
Business segments Malarone atovaquone/proguanil electron transport inhibitor treatment and prophylaxis of malaria
in the developing world. Further details are given on page 13 and
GlaxoSmithKline operates principally in two industry segments: Lapdap chlorproguanil hydrochloride/ antifolate anti-malarial treatment of malaria
pages 27 to 31. dapsone
• Pharmaceuticals (prescription pharmaceuticals and vaccines)
Metabolic Avandia rosiglitazone PPAR-gamma agonist type 2 diabetes
• Consumer Healthcare (over-the-counter medicines, oral care Consumer Healthcare
Avandamet rosiglitazone + metformin PPAR-gamma agonist+ type 2 diabetes
and nutritional healthcare). GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare recognises that a clear hydrochloride antihyperglycemic agent
understanding of the needs and expectations of consumers is metformin
GlaxoSmithKline strategy fundamental to the success of the business. The traditional method
Vaccines Havrix hepatitis A
of communicating with customers is through television advertising, Engerix-B hepatitis B
GlaxoSmithKline’s business goal is to become the indisputable although newer channels, such as the internet, are gaining Twinrix hepatitis A and B
leader in the pharmaceutical industry. Achieving this goal will importance. Whichever method is chosen, the challenge is to make Infanrix diphtheria, tetanus, acellular pertussis
require meeting the three key challenges that face both the GlaxoSmithKline products stand out from the competition. Oncology Zofran ondansetron 5HT receptor antagonist nausea and vomiting from cancer
3
industry and society as a whole: and emesis therapy
New products can come from many sources, but, importantly,
Hycamtin topotecan topoisomerase 1 inhibitor ovarian cancer, small cell lung cancer
• improving productivity in research and development Consumer Healthcare partners with the Pharmaceutical business to
Navelbine vinorelbine cytotoxic non-small cell lung cancer, breast
• ensuring patients have access to new medicines maximise the Group’s assets through opportunities for
cancer
• reaching consumers beyond the traditional healthcare pharmaceutical products in the over-the-counter market. Bexxar iodine - 131 tositumomab radioimmunotherapy follicular non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
professional.
Cardiovascular Coreg carvedilol alpha/beta blocker congestive heart failure
People
GlaxoSmithKline has developed strategies which focus on a and urogenital Lanoxin digoxin cardiac anti-arrhythmic congestive heart failure,
number of key business drivers in order to meet these challenges. The single greatest source of competitive advantage of any cardiac arrhythmia
company is its people. The Group’s ambition is to make it the Flolan epoprostenol inhibitor of blood clotting primary pulmonary hypertension
place where great people apply their energy and passion to make Lacipil lacidipine calcium channel blocker hypertension
a difference in the world. Their skills and intellect are key Pritor telmisartan angiotensin II antagonist hypertension
components in the successful implementation of the Group’s Levitra* vardenafil PDE-5 inhibitor erectile dysfunction
strategy. The work environment supports an informed, empowered Avodart dutasteride selective inhibitor type I & II benign prostatic hyperplasia
isoforms 5AR
and resilient workforce, in which the Group values and draws on
the diverse knowledge, perspectives, experience, and styles of the Other Zantac ranitidine histamine H 2 antagonist duodenal ulcers, stomach ulcers,
global community. Further details are given on page 26. reflux and dyspepsia
* co-promoted08 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 09
GlaxoSmithKline’s principal pharmaceutical products are presently Anti-virals Infanrix is a range of paediatric vaccine combinations. Infanrix The major products which are not necessarily sold in all markets
directed to nine therapeutic areas. An analysis of sales by these Combivir, a combination of Retrovir and Epivir, has consolidated provides protection against diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis are:
therapeutic areas, and a description of the principal products, are the position of these two reverse transcriptase inhibitors as the (whooping cough). Infanrix PeNta/Pediarix provides additional
Category Product
set out below: cornerstone of many multiple anti-HIV product regimens. Physician protection against hepatitis B and polio, and Infanrix hexa further
acceptance has clearly demonstrated the value placed on adds protection against haemophilus influenzae type b, which Over-the-counter medicines
2003 2002 2001
Turnover by therapeutic area £m £m £m minimising the pill burden faced by patients. causes meningitis. Analgesics Panadol
Dermatologicals Zovirax
Central nervous system 4,455 4,511 4,007
Ziagen is a reverse transcriptase inhibitor. The product’s potency, GlaxoSmithKline also markets Priorix, a measles, mumps and Abreva
Respiratory 4,417 3,987 3,537
ease of use and resistance profile allow it to play a significant role rubella vaccine, Typherix, a vaccine for protection against typhoid Gastro-intestinal Tums
Anti-virals 2,349 2,299 2,128
in a variety of highly active, well tolerated and simplified HIV fever, and Varilrix, a vaccine against varicella or chicken pox. In Citrucel
Anti-bacterials/anti-malarials 1,815 2,210 2,604
treatment regimens. addition, the Group markets a range of vaccines to prevent Respiratory tract Contac
Metabolic 1,079 960 875
Vaccines 1,123 1,080 948 Trizivir is a combination of Combivir and Ziagen, combining three meningitis under the umbrella name Mencevax. Beechams
Oncology and emesis 1,001 977 838 anti-HIV therapies in one tablet, for twice daily administration. Smoking control Commit
Oncology and emesis Nicorette
Cardiovascular and urogenital 771 661 591
Agenerase is a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, Zofran is used to prevent nausea and vomiting associated with NicoDerm CQ
Other 1,171 1,310 1,677
the first medicine of this class to be brought to the market by chemotherapy and radiotherapy for cancer, and is available in NiQuitin CQ
18,181 17,995 17,205 GlaxoSmithKline. Agenerase has a twice daily dosing regimen both oral and injectable forms. It is also approved for use in the Nicabate CQ
and no significant food or drink restrictions. prevention and treatment of post-operative nausea and vomiting. Natural wellness support Abtei
Central nervous system (CNS) Lexiva is also a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, but Hycamtin is a second line treatment both for ovarian cancer and Oral care Aquafresh
Seroxat/Paxil is a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor (SSRI) with a new combination of tolerability and convenience. Lexiva for small cell lung cancer. Corega
approved for depression, panic, obsessive compulsive disorder, may be dosed once daily when boosted with ritonavir. Dr Best
Navelbine is approved as a first line treatment of non-small cell
post traumatic stress disorder, social anxiety disorder, premenstrual Macleans
Zeffix has been approved for marketing in the USA, Europe, China lung cancer in combination with cisplatin or as a single agent.
dysphoric disorder, and general anxiety disorder. Paxil CR, a Odol
and other markets for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B.
controlled release version, was launched in the USA in 2002. Bexxar is a treatment for patients with follicular, non-Hodgkin’s Odol Med 3
Valtrex is a treatment for chicken pox, zoster (shingles), cold sores lymphoma whose disease is refractory to Rituximab and who have Polident
Wellbutrin is an anti-depressant, available in the USA in normal
and episodic genital herpes as well as the long term suppression relapsed following chemotherapy. Poligrip
and sustained-release (SR) tablet formulations. A once-daily
of genital herpes. Valtrex supersedes Zovirax, which is also widely Sensodyne
version, Wellbutrin XL, was launched in the USA in September
used to treat herpes infections. Cardiovascular and urogenital
Nutritional healthcare Horlicks
2003.
Coreg is an alpha/beta blocker which has been proven to be
Lucozade
Imigran/Imitrex is a 5HT1 receptor agonist used for the treatment Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials effective in treating hypertension and heart attack patients and Ribena
of severe or frequent migraine and cluster headache, and has Augmentin is a broad-spectrum antibiotic suitable for the mild, moderate and severe heart failure. GlaxoSmithKline has sole
become the reference product in this sector. Naramig/Amerge is treatment of a wide range of common bacterial infections and is marketing rights in the USA and Canada. Generic versions of the
a newer migraine product. particularly effective against respiratory tract infections. Augmentin product became available in Canada in 2003. Over-the-counter medicines
ES-600 is an extra strength suspension specifically designed to treat The leading products are Panadol, a widely available
Lamictal, a well established treatment for epilepsy, is now also Levitra is a PDE-5 inhibitor indicated for male erectile dysfunction.
children with recurrent or persistent middle ear infections. paracetamol/acetominophen analgesic; Nicorette gum; the
indicated for bipolar disorder. GlaxoSmithKline has co-promotion rights worldwide (except for
Nicoderm, NiQuitin CQ and Nicabate range of smoking control
Augmentin XR is an extra strength tablet form for adults to combat Japan). Levitra was launched in 2003 in the USA and most
Requip is a specific dopamine D2/D3 receptor agonist indicated products; Tums, a calcium based antacid; Citrucel laxative; Contac
the growing problem of bacterial resistance in the community. European markets.
for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease. for the treatment of colds and influenza; Abtei, a natural medicines
Zinnat is an oral antibiotic used primarily for community-acquired Avodart is a 5-ARI inhibitor currently indicated for benign prostatic and vitamin range; and Zovirax and Abreva for the treatment of
Zyban is a nicotine-free prescription medicine, available
infections of the lower respiratory tract. Fortum is used in the hypertrophy. A large clinical outcome study is underway examining cold sores.
as a sustained-release tablet, for treating the problem of
hospital-based injectable antibiotics market. its efficacy in the prevention of prostate cancer.
smoking addiction. In 2003, Flixonase Allergy Nasal Spray for airborne allergies was
Malarone is an oral anti-malarial used for the treatment and launched in the UK. This is a further product in GlaxoSmithKline’s
Other
Respiratory prophylaxis of malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum. programme of, where appropriate, switching prescription
This category includes the Group’s principal dermatological
Seretide/Advair, a combination of Serevent and Flixotide, offers medicines to over-the-counter.
products; Betnovate, the higher potency Dermovate and the newer
a long-acting bronchodilator and an anti-inflammatory in a single Metabolic
Cutivate are anti-inflammatory steroid products used to treat skin
inhaler. Seretide was approved for the treatment of chronic Avandia is a potent insulin sensitising agent which acts on the Oral care
diseases such as eczema and psoriasis. Relafen is a non-steroidal
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in the EU in May 2003. underlying pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes. Avandamet is a The leading oral care products are toothpastes and mouthwashes
anti-inflammatory drug for the treatment of arthritis. Zantac, for
combination of Avandia and metformin HCI; it is the first medicine under the Aquafresh, Sensodyne, Macleans and Odol brand
Serevent is a long-acting bronchodilator used to treat asthma and the treatment of peptic ulcer disease and a range of gastric acid
that targets insulin resistance and decreases glucose production names, and a range of toothbrushes sold under the Aquafresh,
COPD, and Ventolin is a selective short-acting bronchodilator used related disorders, continues to play a major role in a number of
in one convenient pill. and Dr Best names. In addition, denture care products are available
to treat bronchospasm. markets, even where patent protection has been lost.
principally under the Polident, Poligrip and Corega brand names.
Flixotide/Flovent and Becotide/Beclovent are inhaled steroids for Vaccines
Products – Consumer Healthcare
the treatment of inflammation associated with asthma and COPD. GlaxoSmithKline markets a range of hepatitis vaccines. Havrix Nutritional healthcare
protects against hepatitis A and Engerix-B against hepatitis B. GlaxoSmithKline’s principal consumer healthcare products are in The leading products in this category are Lucozade glucose energy
Flixonase/Flonase and Beconase are intra-nasal preparations for
Twinrix is a combined hepatitis A and B vaccine, protecting against three major areas. An analysis of sales by these areas is set out and sports drinks, Ribena blackcurrant-based juice drink rich in
the treatment of perennial and seasonal rhinitis.
both diseases with one vaccine and available in both adult and below: vitamin C, and Horlicks, a range of milk-based malted food and
paediatric strengths. chocolate drinks.
2003 2002 2001
£m £m £m
Over-the-counter medicines 1,556 1,586 1,603
Oral care 1,082 1,052 1,106
Nutritional healthcare 622 579 575
3,260 3,217 3,28410 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 11
Operating environment
Competition – Pharmaceuticals Major respiratory competitors are Singulair from Merck, especially Competition – Consumer Healthcare Grant of a marketing authorisation affords the Group a protection
in the USA and in Europe, Symbicort from AstraZeneca and Spiriva period during which a competitor cannot rely on confidential data
The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. The main competitors in the Group’s Consumer Healthcare markets
from Pfizer/Boehringer Ingelheim. in the regulatory file as a basis for its own marketing authorisation.
GlaxoSmithKline’s principal competitors are large international include the major international companies Colgate-Palmolive,
The data protection period begins on the date an authorisation is
pharmaceutical companies with substantial resources. Some of Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, Procter & Gamble, Unilever and Wyeth.
Anti-virals first granted in the European Union and expires after ten years for
these companies and their major products are mentioned below. In addition, there are many other companies that compete with
The major competitors in the HIV market are Bristol Myers Squibb, authorisations granted via the Centralised Procedure, or ten or six
GlaxoSmithKline in selected markets.
Pharmaceuticals may be subject to competition from other Merck and Pfizer amongst others. years for authorisations granted via the Mutual Recognition
products during the period of patent protection and, once off The major competitor products in over-the-counter (OTC) procedure, depending on the country concerned.
GlaxoSmithKline has a pioneering role in the HIV market, with
patent, from generic versions. The manufacturers of generic medicines are:
Retrovir and Epivir acting as the cornerstone of combination In May 2004, the European Union will be expanded from 15 to 25
products typically do not bear significant research and development
therapy, and available as Combivir in a single tablet. The launches • in the USA: Metamucil (laxative), Clearasil (acne treatment), Member States. In anticipation of this enlargement European
costs and consequently are able to offer their products at
of Ziagen, Agenerase, Trizivir and Lexiva have broadened Pepcid (indigestion) and private label smoking control regulatory legislation is currently undergoing review. The impact of
considerably lower prices than the branded competitors. A research
the Group’s portfolio of HIV products. Valtrex has helped products any changes on regulatory procedures and data protection periods
and development based pharmaceutical company will normally
strengthen the Group’s position in the anti-herpes area, although • in the UK: Lemsip (cold remedy), Nurofen and Anadin remains to be seen.
seek to achieve a sufficiently high profit margin and sales volume
Zovirax faces competition from generic aciclovir. Both Valtrex and (analgesics), and Nicorette and Nicotinell (smoking control
during the period of patent protection to repay the original In the USA, the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term
Zovirax compete with Novartis’ Famvir. Zeffix was the first anti-viral remedies).
investment, which is generally substantial, and to fund research Restoration Act of 1984 (Hatch-Waxman) established the current
on the market to treat Hepatitis B. Gilead’s Hepsera is the second
for the future. Competition from generic products generally occurs In Oral healthcare the major competitors are Colgate-Palmolive’s framework for approval of generic drugs, including related patent
and was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
as patents in major markets expire. Increasingly patent challenges Colgate and Procter & Gamble’s Crest. and data protection provisions. Under Hatch-Waxman, the sponsor
in September 2002.
are made, prior to patent expiry, claiming that the innovator patent of an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) can receive
In Nutritional healthcare the major competitors to Horlicks are
is not valid and/or that it is not infringed by the generic product. marketing approval without submitting any safety or efficacy data.
Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials Ovaltine and Milo malted food and chocolate drinks. The
Following loss of patent protection, generic products rapidly It can rely on the pioneer company’s extensive pre-clinical and
In 2002 generic versions of both Augmentin and Ceftin/Zinnat competitors to Ribena are primarily local fruit juice products while
capture a large share of the market, particularly in the USA. clinical development data, provided the proposed generic drug has
were introduced in the USA, following successful legal challenges Lucozade competes with other energy drinks.
been demonstrated to be bioequivalent to the pioneer product.
GlaxoSmithKline undertakes a range of activities to maximise the by generic manufacturers (see Note 30 to the Financial statements,
GlaxoSmithKline holds leading global positions in all its key However, generic drug approvals are subject to data protection
value of its intellectual property, including introducing innovative ‘Legal proceedings’). Augmentin has already lost patent protection
consumer product areas. Worldwide it is the second largest in periods of five years for new chemical entities and three years for
products into as many markets as possible, accelerating the process in various countries in Europe. Augmentin XR and Augmentin ES
Oral care and the third largest in OTC medicines. In Nutritional any modifications supported by new clinical studies. Moreover,
to bring new products to market developing improved, patent compete against a broad range of other branded and generic
healthcare it holds the leading position in the UK, India and under the provisions of Hatch-Waxman, the filing of an ANDA can
protected, versions of older products and increasing brand antibiotics. Malarone’s safety profile and convenient dosing
Ireland. trigger procedures that may allow patent holders to initiate patent
recognition among customers. regimen have helped put this product in a strong position versus
infringement litigation with the significant procedural advantage
mefloquine following its recent launch for malaria prophylaxis.
GlaxoSmithKline believes that its competitive position is dependent Regulation – Pharmaceuticals of being assured that the FDA’s approval of the proposed generic
upon the discovery and development of new products, together product will be stayed for up to 30 months, pending resolution
Metabolic The international pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated.
with effective marketing of existing products. Within the of the litigation. These procedures have generated litigation and
The major competitor for Avandia is Takeda Chemical’s Actos, National regulatory authorities administer a panoply of laws
pharmaceutical industry, the introduction of new products and controversy, particularly because, as currently applied, they have
which is co-promoted with Eli Lilly in the USA. and regulations governing the testing, approval, manufacturing,
processes by competitors may affect pricing levels or result in resulted in multiple, non-concurrent 30-month stays for some
labelling and marketing of drugs and also review the safety
product replacement. There can be no assurance that products proposed generic products. In June 2003, the FDA issued new
Vaccines and efficacy of pharmaceutical products. These regulatory
may not become outmoded, notwithstanding patent or trade mark regulations to clarify certain aspects of its procedures that have
GlaxoSmithKline’s major competitors in the vaccine market include requirements are a major factor in determining whether a
protection. In addition, increasing government and other pressure generated controversy. In addition, in November 2003 new laws
Aventis Pasteur (AP), Merck and Wyeth. Engerix-B and Havrix substance can be developed into a marketable product and the
for physicians and patients to use generic pharmaceuticals, rather were enacted by the US Congress that modified the Hatch-
compete with vaccines produced by AP and Merck – Comvax and amount of time and expense associated with such development.
than brand-name medicines, may increase competition for Waxman laws. These modifications eliminated the grant of
Recombivax HB for hepatitis B, and Vaqta and Avaxim for hepatitis
products that are no longer protected by patent. Of particular importance is the requirement in many countries that additional 30-month stays for patents issued after an ANDA is
A. Infanrix’s major competitor is AP’s range of DTPa-based
products be authorised or registered prior to marketing and that filed, and limited the grant of a 30-month stay to one per ANDA
combination vaccines.
CNS disorders such authorisation or registration be maintained subsequently. applicant under most circumstances.
Major competitors in the USA to Paxil are its generic forms,
Oncology and emesis The national regulatory authorities in many jurisdictions, including In the USA, the second reauthorisation of the Prescription Drug
launched in September, fluoxetine, the generic form of
Zofran presently provides GlaxoSmithKline a leadership position in the USA, the European Union, Japan and Australia, have high User Fee Act came into effect on 1st October 2002 (PDUFA III). It
Eli Lilly’s Prozac, Zoloft from Pfizer, Forest Laboratories’ Celexa
the anti-emetic market where the competition includes standards of technical appraisal and consequently the introduction remains to be seen if the substantial additional resources funded
and Lexapro. The principal competitors in the USA for Wellbutrin
Roche/Chugai, Aventis and most recently Merck. Major competitors of new pharmaceutical products generally entails a lengthy under PDUFA III will result in a reduction of overall approval times
are SSRIs and Effexor XR, a Wyeth product. Limited generic
in the diverse cytotoxic market include Bristol Myers Squibb, approval process. for all drugs and biologicals. However, one of the requirements
competition to Wellbutrin began in the USA in January 2004.
Aventis, Pfizer and Novartis. GlaxoSmithKline’s cytotoxic portfolio, under PDUFA III calls for the FDA to initiate a review of first action
In the European Union, there are currently two procedures for
The success of Seroxat/Paxil and Wellbutrin has made them a led by Hycamtin and Navelbine, holds a relatively small market approvals compared to approvable or non-approvable decisions
obtaining marketing authorisations for medicinal products:
target for generic manufacturers, against whom GlaxoSmithKline position. and to report back on the findings of this review.
continues to respond appropriately (see Note 30 to the Financial • The Centralised Procedure, with applications made direct to
The FDA has also completed the previously announced
statements, ‘Legal proceedings’). The recent launches of Paxil CR Cardiovascular and urogenital the European Medicines Evaluation Agency and leading to an
consolidation of the review activities of certain biologicals, other
and the once-daily Wellbutrin XL are expected to help to retain a GlaxoSmithKline markets Coreg in the USA where its major authorisation valid in all member states, is compulsory for
than vaccines, to the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research
strong presence in the anti-depressant market, given the recent competitors are Toprol XL and generic betablockers. During 2003, products derived from biotechnology and optional for new
(CDER). This consolidation also entailed a shifting of resources
entry of generic paroxetine in the USA. Generic competition has the Group launched two urogenital products: Levitra and Avodart. active substances and other innovative medicinal products
from the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER) to
also commenced in the UK and a number of other markets. Avodart competes directly with Merck’s Proscar within the BPH
• The Mutual Recognition Procedure, which is applicable to the CDER. The impact of this shift in resources remains to be seen.
market. Levitra is marketed for male erectile dysfunction and faces
majority of conventional medicinal products, operates by
Respiratory competition from Pfizer’s Viagra and Lilly’s Cialis.
mutual recognition of national marketing authorisations.
GlaxoSmithKline’s respiratory franchise is driven by the growth of
Where agreement cannot be reached, it is resolved by
Seretide/Advair, gaining patients from competitor products and
procedure of binding arbitration.
the cannibalisation of Serevent and Flixotide. Ventolin and Becotide
have faced generic competition for some years but have
maintained significant sales.12 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 13
Operating activities
Along with the PDUFA III first action review and consolidation Value for money Marketing and distribution – Pharmaceuticals Stakeholder initiatives
of some CBER review activities into CDER, the FDA has also It is becoming increasingly necessary to demonstrate the value for During 2003 the company launched several initiatives to improve
announced, under the sponsorship of the Commissioner, a money of new products, in particular the impact upon drug budget An analysis of total pharmaceutical turnover by geographic region its abilities to deliver important information to physicians and
renewed focus on innovation in drug development, hopefully expenditure and the burden of the disease that will be treated. is set out below: patients about diseases and therapies to treat them.
allowing more rapid development of needed medicines. This
In some markets, the need to satisfy healthcare purchasers as to 2003 2002 2001
initiative will investigate the use of pharmacogenomics and Turnover by geographic region £m £m £m Sales force excellence
value for money is becoming an additional hurdle for product
surrogate markers of efficacy, among other things, as tools for acceptance over and above the regulatory tests of safety, efficacy USA 9,410 9,797 9,037 The Worldwide Sales Force Excellence initiative focuses on
rapidly developing safe and effective drugs for unmet medical and quality. This can delay bringing effective and improved Europe 5,114 4,701 4,561 increasing GlaxoSmithKline sales representatives’ skills in providing
needs. medicines to the market and reduce their effective patent International: value to healthcare professionals around the globe. A centrepiece
of the project is a global framework for training that will raise the
Across International markets, countries outside the USA and protection time. Asia Pacific 1,140 1,100 1,047
standards for representatives’ knowledge about diseases and the
Europe, the regulatory environment continues to be extremely Japan 753 712 741
varied and challenging. GlaxoSmithKline anticipates that the In many markets it is becoming increasingly difficult for even a Latin America 597 606 790 role of GlaxoSmithKline medicines in treating them. The training
introduction of new products will continue to require substantial significantly improved therapy to obtain a premium price over Middle East, Africa 693 652 611 will also address how to answer the central questions each
effort, time and expense to comply with regulatory requirements. existing medication. Value-based pricing may be difficult to follow Canada 474 427 418 physician faces when deciding on a patient’s treatment: When
in such circumstances, although in the USA it is still possible to should I use a GlaxoSmithKline medicine, why should I use it,
18,181 17,995 17,205
price products to reflect their value. and how should I use it?
Price controls
In many countries the prices of pharmaceutical products are It is not possible to predict whether, and to what extent, the GlaxoSmithKline sells its prescription medicines primarily to The initiative aims to build on the good reputation that
controlled by law. Governments may also influence prices through Group’s business may be affected by future legislative and wholesale drug distributors, independent and chain retail GlaxoSmithKline sales forces already enjoy among physicians
their control of national healthcare organisations, which may bear regulatory developments relating to specific pharmaceutical pharmacies, physicians, hospitals, clinics, government entities and worldwide. Surveys of physicians in major world markets have
a large part of the cost of supplying products to consumers. products or their price. other institutions. These products are ordinarily dispensed to the recently rated GlaxoSmithKline sales representatives No. 1 in the
public by pharmacies through prescriptions written by doctors in industry in the UK, Germany, France and Spain, and No. 1 in the
Recent Government healthcare reforms in countries such as France,
Regulation – Consumer Healthcare hospitals or in doctors’ surgeries. US among pulmonologists, allergists/immunologists, paediatricians,
Spain and Germany may restrict pricing and reimbursement.
neurologists, ear, nose and throat specialists, and infectious disease
The consumer healthcare industry is subject to national regulation In the USA, the world’s largest pharmaceutical market, the
In the USA, recent legislation on healthcare reform, cross-border specialists.
for the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing pressure to contain healthcare costs has encouraged the growth
trade, the acceleration of generics to market and increased patient
of products. In many countries high standards of technical of managed care organisations and pharmacy benefit managers. (Source for rankings: Taylor Nelson Sofres Healthcare 2002 for Europe;
contributions have further increased the focus on pricing. Currently
appraisal entail a lengthy approval process before a new product These intermediaries use a range of methods to lower costs, Verispan 2003 for USA).
there are no government price controls over private sector
is launched. including the substitution of generic products or other cheaper
purchases, but federal legislation requires pharmaceutical
therapies for branded products prescribed by doctors. As a result Marketing excellence
manufacturers to pay prescribed rebates on certain drugs in order National regulatory authorisation is also required to approve the
of its increasing importance as a supplier of healthcare to the Goals of the global Marketing Excellence initiative are first, to
to be eligible for reimbursement under Medicaid and other federal switch of products from prescription to OTC. The requirements
community, GlaxoSmithKline contracts with the managed care help undiagnosed patients seek a physician’s help and, second,
healthcare programmes. include long-term experience of the quality, safety and efficacy
sector through a small number of wholesalers. to ensure they receive appropriate treatment. For example, in the
of the product in a wide patient population and data to confirm
UK, officials estimate that 2.4 million people suffer from type 2
Medicare that the relevant condition is both self-limiting and can easily be In each market, GlaxoSmithKline deploys sales forces of
diabetes, yet about 25 per cent of them remain undiagnosed,
The US Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and diagnosed by the consumer. representatives and supporting medical staff to promote its
and of those diagnosed, another 25 per cent remain untreated.
Modernization Act of 2003 provides limited immediate benefits to prescription products to medical prescribers and healthcare
Of those treated, a significant number is under-treated in some
Medicare patients in the form of government sponsored discount purchasers through personal visits.
way – that is, these patients do not achieve the level of health
cards to be replaced with a comprehensive out-patient drug
Promotion of GlaxoSmithKline’s products is supplemented by that the treatments could provide under optimal circumstances.
benefit in 2006. The benefit is intended to be administered by a
scientific seminars, advertising in medical and other journals, GlaxoSmithKline’s marketing initiative explores barriers to proper
number of private organisations who will construct benefit
television advertising, provision of samples, direct mailing and diagnosis and treatment, and implements programmes to
structures consistent with federal law and will market the benefit
information contained on the Group’s website. overcome them. As these programmes begin to show effects, the
to Medicare patients.
societal costs of disease will decrease. To the extent that physicians
Direct-to-consumer (DTC) advertising is a major component of
While the law provides strong incentives for manufacturers to choose a GlaxoSmithKline product for their patients’ treatment,
product marketing in the USA. DTC advertisements are now the
negotiate prices with plan sponsors, the bill does not provide for the company will benefit as well.
primary source of information for patients requesting specific
explicit government price controls. As most seniors already have
brand name products from their physicians in the USA.
some sort of out-patient drug coverage, increases in demand may Patient advocacy
be limited to drugs required by low income seniors who have not, Outside the USA, DTC is either prohibited or has a more limited A third worldwide initiative seeks to achieve a higher level of
in the past, been able to arrange private coverage. Those low- role in informing patients. In the European Union, DTC of intimacy between GlaxoSmithKline and the ultimate consumer
income seniors will receive larger subsidies for the deductible and prescription-only products is currently prohibited. In Australia, the of our products – the patient. Already in the US, GlaxoSmithKline
co-payments associated with the comprehensive benefit. government allows DTC advertising of pharmacy-only products has hosted two Patient Advocacy Leaders Summits, which have
subject to certain safeguards. In New Zealand, DTC is allowed and brought as many as 300 leaders of patient groups together to
This law also changes the way that drugs administered in physician
self-regulated by the industry in collaboration with the Advertising seek areas of common interest among each other and with
offices, clinics and hospital outpatient departments will be
Standards Agency. Other markets allow DTC, but to date the GlaxoSmithKline, and to plan actions around them. Working
reimbursed. Instead of reimbursement based on prices published
impact has been more limited. together, these groups strive for continued open access to all
by independent pricing services, the new law provides for
appropriate medicines for their constituencies – an increasing
reimbursement that is based on the actual market prices as In addition to the direct marketing of products by its subsidiaries,
challenge in a time of tightening budgets – and champion
reported by manufacturers and audited by the government. In GlaxoSmithKline has entered into agreements with other
continued investments in the development of new medicines.
addition, beginning in 2006, physicians will have the option of pharmaceutical companies for the co-marketing and co-promotion
choosing not to purchase or claim reimbursement for products at of their products in many markets, for example Levitra with Bayer. A similar approach has been launched in Europe, where patient
all, instead allowing drug distributors to provide drugs to doctor’s advocacy groups are becoming increasingly organised.
offices and submit claims to Medicare and to patients (for their
contributions). These distributors will earn the ability to provide
these products and services through a competitive bidding process.14 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 15
Marketing and distribution – Consumer Healthcare Secondary supply chain Consumer Healthcare supply chain R&D Processes - Discovery, Commercialisation & Delivery
European region There are 24 Consumer Healthcare manufacturing sites spread
The principal markets for Consumer Healthcare’s OTC medicines
There are 15 sites in the European region spread across eight across 16 countries. The Consumer Healthcare supply chain is The diagram below shows the relationship between the various
are the USA, the UK, Germany, Australia, Argentina, Italy, Mexico,
countries. Between them the European sites manufacture nearly diverse and includes the manufacturing and supply of OTC stages of R&D.
Japan, Canada and France. The principal markets for Oral care
all of the major pharmaceutical products marketed globally by medicines, Oral care, Nutritional healthcare and Smoking control
products are the USA, Germany and the UK. The Nutritional drinks
GlaxoSmithKline in a wide variety of finished dosage forms. products. As well as internal facilities, over 220 contract suppliers
business is particularly strong in the UK, Ireland and India, although
are used worldwide. Research Development Commercialisation
the range of products is available in other markets.
North America region
OTC and Oral care products are primarily distributed through There are six pharmaceutical manufacturing sites in the North Research and development – Pharmaceuticals
pharmacy or mass market outlets either directly or through America region located in Puerto Rico, Canada and the USA. The global biological and pharmaceutical Research and
wholesalers. Nutritional healthcare products are distributed through Development (R&D) function in GlaxoSmithKline is responsible Genetics Preclinical
a similar but more extensive retail and wholesale network. International region for discovering, developing, registering, commercialising and Research Development
The International region comprises 30 manufacturing sites, in supporting effective marketing of innovative prescription
Project Future 18 countries, spread across six distinct areas. There are five sites medicines, vaccines and delivery systems for the treatment and Discovery Worldwide
In 2003, a fundamental review was undertaken of the Consumer in Middle East/Africa, 15 sites spread across the Asia Pacific/ prevention of human disease. Research Development
Healthcare business model for Product Innovation and Marketing Australia area, four sites in China, one in Japan and five in Latin
aimed to increase competitiveness and, thereby, sales growth. The America. Fundamental to this goal is a thorough understanding of the
review, termed ’Project Future’ has transitioned GlaxoSmithKline’s diseases under investigation, facilitated by pioneering work
Consumer Healthcare from a geographically based structure with GlaxoSmithKline integration in genetics and a range of technologies, as well as more traditional
some global strategic support, to one where brands are developed This long-term, integrated change programme implemented at research disciplines. In addition to the work to create new R&D processes
in the most appropriate place. As a result, more responsibility will the time of the merger is called the Global Supply Network (GSN) medicines and vaccines, extensive efforts are made to gain a clear In line with GlaxoSmithKline's strategic intent to become the
be taken centrally to develop global brands, and more autonomy and is structured to deliver benefits through five major streams understanding of the unmet needs of patients and of healthcare indisputable leader in the industry, R&D has set itself the goal
will be afforded to local markets to manage their local brands, of activity: providers and payers as a guide to the overall direction of R&D. of becoming the industry’s most productive R&D organisation.
using their entrepreneurial skills to the full. • Reduction in above-site infrastructure and costs In 2003 GlaxoSmithKline invested nearly £2.7 billion in As a fundamental pre-requisite to this approach, it is crucial that
• Procurement initiatives pharmaceuticals R&D. R&D is an organisation that benefits from R&D also focuses on the needs of the patient so that the benefits
Manufacture and supply • Continued network rationalisation the insights of top scientists around the world and employs over that may be derived from new medicines and innovative
GlaxoSmithKline has a large portfolio of products, ranging from • Logistics improvements 15,000 staff in biological and pharmaceutical R&D activities, at formulations of existing medicines are available to those who need
tablets and toothpaste to inhalers and complex capsules, in over • Operational excellence and lean-sigma improvements. more than 20 sites worldwide, including: them to recover health and quality of life.
28,000 different pack sizes and presentations. As part of the network rationalisation plan, production ceased • UK: Beckenham, Brentford, Cambridge, Dartford, R&D measures productivity not just by the number and innovation
Manufacture of medicines begins with the development of a in 2003 at eight sites in countries which included the UK, India, Greenford, Harlow, Stevenage, Tonbridge, Ware, of the products it creates, but also by the commercial value of
therapeutic active ingredient (bulk active) in a selected formulation. Romania and the USA. The programme has met its merger Welwyn the product's ability to address the unmet needs of all customers
Global Manufacture & Supply (GMS) develops manufacturing commitments one year ahead of plan. • USA: Bristol, Tennessee; Philadelphia, Upper Merion and including patients, healthcare professionals, budget holders and
processes for full scale volume production of active compounds Upper Providence, Pennsylvania; Research Triangle regulators; each with their own perspective on what constitutes
at 'primary' manufacturing sites. Converting active compounds External suppliers Park, North Carolina a valuable new product. R&D is positioned to ensure that it
into a finished dosage formulation is the responsibility of the Procurement is a global function supporting all functions and • Belgium: Rixensart generates the right safety, efficacy and quality information to
'secondary' manufacturing sites. areas of the GlaxoSmithKline business. Manufacturing is one of • Canada: Mississauga respond to these different perspectives through data
the largest areas with over £2 billion spent with many external • France: Les Ulis, Evreux demonstrating the overall social benefits of the new medicine;
GMS operates as a single global network of 87 sites in 37 suppliers every year, including the purchase of active ingredients, • Italy: Verona increased length or quality of life, and increased workplace
countries. Each year GMS produces around 6,000 tonnes of bulk chemical intermediates, part-finished and finished products. GMS • Japan: Tsukuba Science City, Takasaki productivity.
actives and over four billion packs, which are packaged and has taken appropriate steps to protect its supply chains from any • Spain: Tres Cantos, Madrid.
delivered for sale in over 160 countries. Throughout the world it One of the historical contradictions in the pharmaceutical industry
also supports approximately 2,000 new product and line extension disruption resulting from interrupted external supply through During 2003, R&D once again delivered a wide range of products has been the need to lever the advantages of a large organisation
launches a year. appropriate stock levels, contracting and alternative registered to the market and achieved significant success in bringing several without losing the creative spirit of the research environment. In
suppliers. new compounds through the earlier stages of research and past GlaxoSmithKline, R&D has been structured to balance the areas
GMS is focused on delivering: the critical proof of concept (PoC) decision point. The extensive that benefit from large scale with those that take advantage of
• a secure source of supply of high quality products Vaccines supply chain in-licensing programme of 2001 and 2002 has slowed as the being small to enhance their productivity.
• • • c e b l peo x e ra opm s d cte ip unc inl rt gi eaa c mtn ei lo ac d ee sn g ns s e tw c apoit nrsh at d cr e t inig c eu osl ta hat eo n rr d y g p lr oe e bq rf au o li rr fme um na cne tn c ioets n – sa .n a td sc itu es st ,o im n er V i a s a bn un pa a pc d p sB ec p re t oi dlln w yg a e oi ccou nhhm m j ao fta , i ooi n n nw r u et bi ni cf evta avh e c o a s nt tt blu t svh lu e er r fi re s r n e t o eg a os m n o ii mn t s t tih c e hl Co e i e ephrc t a a i ds n t flt i iit ae fn ue f d g c es a t rnp ui m en dr a n i a tm F tR ir r ok mua a ner n s asi tsl c ry i ne ia k n, .a e e t e tG dM sd eR e a s ami rx n nm ae aa dnn a ng ds n fidina y r.ur g m t Tsa i h tna n oh en d g re sd d e H a v e W u a a rfl scn ra e ec fgv x i rnar i obe r e mly e p p d t e vh anr r iso o e ls uc d g uo p eu r rv oe i ac nes rt nr gtsi e fv d oi d ti n t hl d y it i o a o eno t l t o if d e vR f eret &nh c rv Da oee nll m lo ep iy n wp . po vm oPs e mt r u s- e a tm n en c sd d tte ii s itcr o c sg a i if n nle r ea er p d sn sro oe io tr i v un og r e rc i a clt por in ee s ap si aas t mt isa t ei oi ot n e ni no ng a ts n t ca . n h hnh u ia eda m s v s m e b as e lt a tsa r hn o r eo a t b e gf o ed ec pe mot tno im me anp u to f m oou c fn u d ss , T c s h cca hh igrp ae e hi i et nk la yn .e l i r Oy ni en g ta gt h;r e u e etn la h ras s o t ai ev s rt e d eh e , a a o t smt hr flb ah at oe ii ngn ur lehe ryq i fi st au ht h t i r rf to ter oho u s em tg c hh a l a eb rp t ice reu e i r btn s e eg a k n sc i tl lt da l i s av r ; og i d t a fe i ve n atsa hd n r s e te tu a h d gt c oh eh eso v ea ies f se l t o t hc ht paoh emtma st ea tp nr ra eo utr ue ct n ud r al
health authorities for mass vaccination campaigns. unit remains small: the units can respond quickly to the changing
Organisation In December 2003, R&D presentations were made in the UK and environment, the opportunity for scientists to interact is optimised,
Bulk, filling and packaging is carefully balanced and stocking of US, when GlaxoSmithKline’s pipeline of future products was and the need for return on investment is focused through the
Primary supply chain vaccines helps manage short-term increases in demand. Such unveiled to analysts. It featured 35 promising compounds, selected fostering of an entrepreneurial, accountable culture.
This is a global organisation with 12 sites, spread across five increases are prompted by disease outbreaks or increased demand for novelty, impact on disease and commercial potential. These
countries, where a broad range of active ingredients for antibiotic from the public owing to disease awareness campaigns. included 353162, a next-generation noradrenaline/dopamine
and non-antibiotic products are manufactured and packaged. The re-uptake inhibitor for depression; a cyclo-oxygenase-2 inhibitor,
sites are located in Australia, Ireland, Singapore, the UK and the 406381, for pain; 480848, a lipoprotein-associated phospholipase
USA. The majority of the active ingredients manufactured by the inhibitor for atherosclerosis; 572016, a dual kinase inhibitor for
primary supply chain are supplied to the secondary pharmaceutical cancer; and 685698, a third-generation inhaled corticosteroid
sites in Europe, North America and International. offering once-daily treatment and greater efficacy compared with
current compounds.16 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 17
In addition to the now established Centres of Excellence for Drug Many diseases arise through complex interactions between a Product development pipeline
Discovery (CEDD) discussed below, a number of partnerships have number of gene variants and environmental factors, so the The product development pipeline set out below shows considerable breadth and depth: at February 2004 GlaxoSmithKline had 201
been forged with other companies to extend GlaxoSmithKline’s challenge involved is significant. Identifying the genes that pharmaceutical and vaccine projects in development, of which 148 are in the clinic. This includes 83 New Chemical Entities (NCE),
capability to screen compounds generated by the research predispose patients to a particular disease and understanding 12 in Phase III or registration, 34 in Phase II, 37 in Phase I, 45 Product Line Extensions and 20 vaccines. For competitive reasons, new
function. This effectively extends the CEDD concept to ensure the their role in its progression lead to finding new ways to intervene projects in pre-clinical development have not been disclosed and some project types may not have been identified.
most efficient and rapid validation of a maximum number of lead in these diseases.
Key
candidates through preclinical testing and then clinical studies
The programme initiated in 2002 to identify tractable targets
against proof of concept criteria, before handing over the (v) Vaccine Phase I Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted
that are genetically associated with human diseases of interest (p) Pharmaccine in volunteers
compound to the Worldwide Development organisation for large
has already identified over 50 genetic associations in several major * Compounds in Shionogi-GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals
scale clinical trials. diseases. Several clinical studies have started to investigate the † InL -L liC ce j no si en t o v re on tt hu ere r alliance relationship with third party Phase II D efe fit ce ar cm y,in ca ot nio dn u co tf e d do is ne a a sn md ain ll it nia ul m e bva el ru oa ft io pn at io ef n ts
The Worldwide Development (WWD) function integrates the presence of genetic markers for efficacy or susceptibility to adverse S Date of first submission
clinical and regulatory activities necessary to bring a new medicine events which will enhance the ability to focus development of A Date of first Regulatory approval (for MAA, this is the first Phase III Large comparative study (compound versus placebo
to the marketplace. In the past year, the clinical development new medicines on patients who will be most likely to benefit from EU approval letter) and/or established treatment) in patients to
AL Approvable letter establish clinical benefit and safety
process has been significantly shortened by improvements to all them, ultimately providing reassurance to both the prescriber and MAA: Marketing authorisation application (Europe)
the associated processes, enabling a seamless transition of data the patient. NDA: New drug application (USA)
Estimated filing dates
from clinical testing through to the final report. Implementation
Compound/Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
of an integrated document management system has reduced the Discovery Research
Cardiovascular, Metabolic & Urogenital
time required to collate the thousands of pages of data necessary Discovery Research (DR) produces the lead compounds that form
for submission to regulatory agencies around the world. the basis of drug discovery efforts in the CEDDs. In 2003, DR 641597 peroxisome proliferator-activator receptor (PPAR) dyslipidaemia I
provided the CEDDs with many high quality new lead compounds alpha agonist
At the beginning of 2004 to accommodate the unprecedented 659032† Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis I
with activity against defined targets. Investment in DR is focused
number of compounds moving through the pipeline this group 681323 p38 kinase inhibitor atherosclerosis (also rheumatoid arthritis & COPD) I
on increasing the quality and quantity of the lead compounds 796406† angiotensin converting enzyme – neutral hypertension I
was transformed, changing the scale and structure of late-stage
available. A central theme of the investment has been a focus on peptidase (ACE-NEP) dual inhibitor
development to enable a stronger focus on patients and on the Coreg CR† beta blocker hypertension & congestive heart failure – once daily I N/A 2005
delivery of products by creating six therapeutically aligned Medicine automation. odiparcil (424323)† indirect thrombin inhibitor prevention of thrombotic complications of II
cardiovascular disease
Development Centres (MDCs), residing within WWD. The centres, In 2003, R&D has opened new automation facilities for high 480848† Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis II
discussed in more detail on page 22, will be accountable for the throughput screening in Tres Cantos (Spain) and high throughput 493838 adenosine A1A agonist dyslipidaemia (also neuropathic pain) ll
generation and life cycle management of marketed medicines chemistry in Harlow (UK). Construction of a new combined facility 501516† PPAR delta agonist dyslipidaemia II
from compounds reaching Proof of Concept (PoC) in the CEDDs. was also started in Upper Providence (USA). 590735 PPAR alpha agonist dyslipidaemia II
piboserod 5HT4 antagonist atrial fibrillation ll
The New Product Supply organisation bridges the traditional divide Another focus for 2003, was high throughput biology. Techniques talnetant NK3 antagonist overactive bladder (also irritable bowel syndrome II
(IBS) & schizophrenia)
between development and manufacturing, ensuring that robust have been developed for rapid screening of new compounds in
Avodart 5-alpha reductase inhibitor benign prostatic hyperplasia, in combination with III
manufacturing processes are developed. The Global Commercial both cell based and whole animal model systems. In many cases, an alpha blocker
Strategy (GCS) organisation provides integrated global these efforts have been supported by sophisticated imaging Avodart 5-alpha reductase inhibitor reduction in the risk of prostate cancer lll
Noratak (nesiritide)† recombinant ß-type natriuretic peptide acute heart failure Submitted S:Sep02 N/A
commercialisation and strategic direction into R&D to maximise systems which have enhanced the understanding of disease solifenacin (YM905)† muscarinic antagonist overactive bladder Approvable N/A AL:Oct03
portfolio value through the full product life cycle. Crucial to the models. Levitra† PDE-5 inhibitor erectile dysfunction Approved A:Mar03 A:Aug03
success of R&D is its capacity to embrace and develop new Metabolic Projects
technologies to streamline the drug discovery process. The The resources available to exploit opportunities within the Group 427353 beta3 adrenergic agonist type 2 diabetes and overactive bladder I
will always be limited. As overall productivity is enhanced and 815541† dipeptidyl peptidase (DPP) IV inhibitor type 2 diabetes I
technology development organisation keeps abreast of emerging
attrition reduced better value for money will be achieved. 823093 DPP IV inhibitor type 2 diabetes I
technologies that may advance the creation of new medicines, 869682† sodium dependent glucose transport type 2 diabetes I
Following the annual portfolio prioritisation review, the CEDDs are
evaluates them and provides the investment and knowledge (SGLT2) antagonist
able to select which programmes to fund internally. Excess assets Avandamet XR PPAR gamma agonist plus metformin type 2 diabetes – extended release I 2005
required to ensure GlaxoSmithKline’s access to appropriate
may be developed through a novel partnership scheme known as 181771 CCK-A agonist obesity II
technologies. As R&D generates and modifies its own technologies, 677954 PPAR pan agonist type 2 diabetes II
the Alternative Drug Discovery Initiative (ADI). The key philosophy
it will not only focus them on the Group’s internal goals but also Avandaryl PPAR gamma agonist plus sulphonylurea type 2 diabetes – fixed dose combination Submitted 2004 S:Oct03
behind ADI is the concept of shared risk and reward for the (Avandia + Amaryl†)
maximise the return on R&D assets through sales, spin-outs and
partners. Consequently, there are many different business Avandamet PPAR gamma agonist plus metformin type 2 diabetes – fixed dose combination Approved A:Oct03 A:Oct02
out-licensing. arrangements. ADI partnerships have been established with Avandia PPAR gamma agonist type 2 diabetes – in combination with insulin Approved N/A A:Feb03
academic institutions to supplement target validation and provide Infectious Diseases
Early research and the role of genetics
The early stages of finding new medicines requires essentially better access to tissue samples and patient populations for clinical Augmentin (once daily)† beta lactam antibiotic respiratory tract infections I
studies. R&D has also formed ADI partnerships with biotechnology 270773† phospholipid anti-endotoxin emulsion sepsis II
two components, targets that can be shown to affect mechanisms
companies and other pharmaceutical companies to explore 275833 topical pleuromutilin bacterial skin infections ll 2005 2005
of important pathological processes in human disease and chlorproguanil, dapsone antifolate + artemisinin treatment of uncomplicated malaria ll 2006 N/A
compounds, typically small molecules but also including different approaches to drug discovery. + artesunate (CDA)†
Augmentin ES beta lactam antibiotic acute otitis media (incl. penicillin-resistant S. pneumoniae) III N/A
macromolecules, protein therapeutics and vaccines, able to
Chewable – high-dose chewable tablet
modulate the behaviour of specific targets. As part of this target sitamaquine 8-aminoquinoline treatment of visceral leishmaniasis III N/A
validation process, GlaxoSmithKline aims to identify the genes Etaquine (tafenoquine)† 8-aminoquinoline malaria prophylaxis (adults) III
most relevant to common diseases with large unmet medical Lapdap† antifolate treatment of uncomplicated malaria Approved A:Jul03 N/A
Anti-virals
needs and major patient burdens, such as asthma, non-insulin 204937 (MIV210)† nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV infections I
dependent diabetes, osteoarthritis, COPD, early onset heart 640385† aspartyl protease inhibitor HIV infections I 2006 2006
disease and Alzheimer’s disease. 695634 non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV infections I
Valtrex XR nucleoside analogue management of genital herpes – modified release l
873140 (ONO4128)† CCR5 antagonist HIV infections II
Ziagen/Epivir† reverse transcriptase inhibitors HIV infections – combination tablet Submitted S:Nov03 S:Oct03
Lexiva (433908)† protease inhibitor HIV infections Approved S:Dec02 A:Oct03
Valtrex nucleoside analogue Herpes Simplex virus (HSV) suppression in Approved N/A A:Apr03
immunocompromised patients
Valtrex/Zelitrex nucleoside analogue prevention of HSV transmission Approved A:Aug03 A:Aug0318 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 19
Estimated filing dates Estimated filing dates
Compound/Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA Compound/Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Neurology & Gastrointestinal Psychiatry
234551* endothelin A antagonist stroke I 644784 dual acting COX-2 inhibitor schizophrenia (also acute & chronic pain conditions I
270384 endothelial cell adhesion molecule inhibitor inflammatory bowel disease I including neuropathic pain)
273629 selective iNOS inhibitor acute migraine I 679769 NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety I
274150 selective iNOS inhibitor migraine (also asthma, COPD & allergic rhinitis) I 742457 5HT6 antagonist schizophrenia (also Alzheimer's disease) I
353162 noradrenaline/dopamine re-uptake inhibitor restless leg syndrome (RLS) & neuropathic pain I 773812 mixed 5HT/dopaminergic antagonist schizophrenia I
(also depression) 823296 NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety I
362115 gap junction blocker migraine & epilepsy I 353162 noradrenaline/dopamine re-uptake inhibitor depression (also RLS & neuropathic pain) II 2006 2006
406725 gap junction blocker migraine & epilepsy I 372475 (N52359)† triple (5HT/noradrenaline/dopamine) depression & attention deficit hyperactivity II
644784 dual acting COX-2 inhibitor acute & chronic pain conditions including I reuptake inhibitor disorder
neuropathic pain (also schizophrenia) 468816 glycine antagonist smoking cessation II
683699† dual alpha4 integrin antagonist (VLA4) multiple sclerosis & inflammatory bowel disease I 597599 NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety (also functional dyspepsia & II
737004* endothelin A antagonist stroke I chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting)
737552* benzodiazepine partial inverse agonist Alzheimer's disease & vascular dementia I talnetant NK3 antagonist schizophrenia (also IBS & overactive bladder) II
742457 5HT6 antagonist Alzheimer's disease (also schizophrenia) I Lamictal sodium channel inhibitor bipolar disorder – acute treatment III N/A 2006
alvimopan† peripheral mu-opioid antagonist irritable bowel syndrome l Wellbutrin XL† noradrenaline/dopamine re-uptake inhibitor seasonal affective disorder III 2004
Lamictal XR sodium channel inhibitor neuropathic pain & epilepsy – once daily l 2006 Paxil CR† selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor (SSRI) pre-menstrual dysphoric disorder, intermittent treatment Approved A:Jan04
406381 dual acting COX-2 inhibitor acute and chronic pain conditions including II 2006 2006 Lamictal sodium channel inhibitor bipolar disorder – long-term prophylaxis Approved A:Mar03 A:Jun03
neuropathic pain & migraine Paxil CR† SSRI pre-menstrual dysphoric disorder, continuous treatment Approved A:Aug03
493838 adenosine A1A agonist neuropathic pain (also dyslipidaemia) II Paxil CR† SSRI social anxiety disorder Approved A:Oct03
597599 NK1 antagonist functional dyspepsia (also chemotherapy induced II Wellbutrin XL† noradrenaline/dopamine re-uptake inhibitor depression Approved 2006 A:Aug03
nausea and vomiting, depression & anxiety)
alvimopan† peripheral mu-opioid antagonist chronic opiate induced bowel dysfunction & II Respiratory
constipation 332235 chemokine 2 – IL8 receptor antagonist (oral) chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) I
Avandia PPAR gamma agonist Alzheimer's disease II 678007† long acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a I
talnetant NK3 antagonist IBS (also schizophrenia & overactive bladder) II glucocorticoid agonist
sumatriptan + MT400† 5HT1 agonist + naproxen migraine – fixed dose combination II N/A 2005 681323 p38 kinase inhibitor (oral) COPD (also rheumatoid arthritis & atherosclerosis) I
alvimopan† peripheral mu-opioid antagonist post operative ileus III 2004 2004 799943 glucocorticoid agonist allergic rhinitis & asthma, also asthma and COPD in I
Lamictal sodium channel inhibitor neuropathic pain III N/A 2004 combination with a long acting beta2 agonist
Requip CR† non-ergot dopamine agonist Parkinson’s disease – controlled release formulation III 2005 2005 159797† long acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a ll
Requip non-ergot dopamine agonist restless legs syndrome Submitted S:Jul03 AL:Dec03 glucocorticoid agonist
Imigran/Imitrex 5HT1 agonist adolescent migraine – nasal formulation Approved A:Apr03 AL:Dec00 274150 selective iNOS inhibitor (oral) asthma, COPD & allergic rhinitis (also migraine) ll
Imigran/Imitrex 5HT1 agonist migraine – fast disintegrating/rapid release formulation Approved A:Jul03 A:Jun03 597901 long acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a ll
Oncology, Musculoskeletal & Inflammation glucocorticoid agonist
685698 glucocorticoid agonist allergic rhinitis II 2006 2006
251353 Groß-T CXC chemokine prevention of chemotherapy-induced cytopaenias I 685698 glucocorticoid agonist asthma, also asthma & COPD in combination with a ll
423557† calcium antagonist osteoporosis I long acting beta2 agonist
462795† cathepsin K inhibitor osteoporosis & osteoarthritis I 766994 chemokine 3 (CCR3) antagonist (oral) asthma & allergic rhinitis II
485232† recombinant human IL18 immunologically-sensitive cancers I 842470† PDE IV inhibitor (inhaled) asthma & COPD II
immunomodulator (melanoma & renal cell) mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody asthma (also hypereosinophillic syndrome) II
497115† thrombopoietin agonist thrombocytopenia I Serevent beta2 agonist asthma & COPD – non-CFC inhaler III 2004 N/A
681323 p38 kinase inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis (also atherosclerosis & COPD) I Seretide beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid asthma – initial maintenance therapy III 2004 N/A
786034 vascular endothelial growth factor 2 solid tumours I Seretide/Advair beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid COPD – mortality claim III 2006 2006
tyrosine kinase inhibitor Ariflo PDE IV inhibitor (oral) COPD Approvable 2004 AL:Oct03
elacridar (120918) oral bioenhancer cancer I Flixotide/Flovent inhaled corticosteroid asthma – non-CFC inhaler Approved A:Apr97 AL:Dec02
597599 NK1 antagonist chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting II 2006 2006 Seretide/Advair beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid asthma – non-CFC inhaler Approved A:Jun00 AL:Oct01
(also functional dyspepsia, depression & anxiety) & Oct02
715992† kinesin spindle protein (KSP) inhibitor non-small cell lung cancer (also other solid tumours) II Seretide/Advair beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid COPD Approved A:May03 A:Nov03
ethynylcytidine† selective RNA polymerase inhibitor solid tumours II
Hepatitis Vaccines
mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody hypereosinophillic syndrome (also asthma) II 2006 2006
572016 ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor breast cancer (also lung, bladder, gastric, head IIl 2006 2005 Hepatitis E recombinant hepatitis E prophylaxis II
and neck cancers) Fendrix Extra Strength recombinant extra strength hepatitis B prophylaxis Submitted S:May03
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer first line therapy Ill 2004 2004 hepatitis B (pre-haemodialysis & haemodialysis patients)
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor non-small cell lung cancer second line therapy III 2004 N/A
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer second line therapy III 2005 2004 Paediatric Vaccines
- oral formulation
N. meningitidis conjugated meningitis prophylaxis II 2005
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor ovarian cancer first line therapy III 2005 2005
combinations
Boniva/Bonviva bisphosphonate treatment & prevention of postmenopausal III 2004 2004
(ibandronate)† osteoporosis – monthly oral dosing Priorix-Tetra (MMR-varicella) live attenuated measles, mumps, rubella and varicella prophylaxis III 2004
Rotarix live attenuated – oral rotavirus prophylaxis III 2004
Boniva/Bonviva bisphosphonate treatment & prevention of postmenopausal III 2004 2004
(ibandronate)† osteoporosis – intermittent i.v. dosing Streptorix conjugated S. pneumoniae disease prophylaxis for children III
Navelbine† vinca alkaloid advanced tumours III N/A 2006 Other Vaccines
breast cancer -oral formulation
nelarabine (506U78) guanine arabinoside prodrug acute lymphoblastic leukaemia & lymphomas III 2004 2004 Dengue fever attenuated tetravalent vaccine prophylactic use I
Avandia PPAR gamma agonist psoriasis III 2006 2005 HIV recombinant HIV prophylaxis I
Bexxar† I131 radiolabelled anti-B1 monoclonal non-Hodgkin's lymphoma Approved N/A A:Jun03 New influenza subunit influenza prophylaxis – new delivery I
antibody S. pneumoniae elderly recombinant S. pneumoniae disease prophylaxis I
Boniva/Bonviva bisphosphonate treatment & prevention of postmenopausal Approved S:Jun02 A:May03 Varicella Zoster recombinant Varicella Zoster prevention I
(ibandronate)† osteoporosis – daily oral regimen Cervarix recombinant prophylaxis of human papillomavirus (HPV) infections II
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer second line therapy Approved 2004 A:Nov98 Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) recombinant EBV prophylaxis II
Mosquirix recombinant malaria prophylaxis II
Staphylococcal antibodies† monoclonal antibody prevention of staphylococcal infections II
Simplirix recombinant genital herpes prophylaxis III
Boostrix Polio subunit adolescent/adult booster for diphtheria, tetanus, Submitted S:Jul03
pertussis and polio
Boostrix subunit adolescent/adult booster for diphtheria, tetanus and Approved A:Oct00 2004
pertussis
Pharmaccines
Breast cancer therapeutic recombinant treatment of breast cancer l
(Her 2 Neu)
mage 3 (249553) recombinant treatment of lung cancer/melanoma II20 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 21
Product approvals
In 2003, approvals were received for a number of new products, including several significant new indications and formulations for existing
Compounds progressed into Phase I clinical development in 2003 products, as summarised in the table below.
During 2003 a number of discovery projects, listed in the table below, progressed through non-clinical safety testing and into early (Phase I)
Country/Region
clinical development. These compounds are continuing their rigorous non-clinical, clinical and commercial assessments, leading to proof of
Product (Approval Date) Description
concept decisions over the next 12–18 months.
Augmentin USA (May) convenient tablet formulation, with a breakline, of amoxicillin (a beta-lactam
antibiotic) and clavulanate (a beta-lactamase inhibitor) for bacterial infections
Compound/Product Mechanism Indication
Avandamet EU (October) fixed dose combination of Avandia and metformin for type 2 diabetes
270384 endothelial cell adhesion molecule inhibitor inflammatory bowel disease Avandia-insulin combination USA (March) combined use of Avandia and insulin for type 2 diabetes
273629* selective iNOS inhibitor acute migraine Bexxar USA (June) I-131 radio-labelled anti-B1 monoclonal antibody, in-licensed from Corixa for
275833AA topical pleuromutilin bacterial skin infections the treatment of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
332235 chemokine 2 – IL8 receptor antagonist (oral) COPD Boniva USA (May) ibandronate, a bisphosphonate for oral daily treatment of osteoporosis in-licensed
362115A gap junction blocker migraine & epilepsy from Roche
406725A gap junction blocker migraine & epilepsy Imigran/Imitrex EU (July) and a fast dissolve tablet formulation of sumatriptan, a 5HT1 antagonist
423557 calcium receptor antagonist osteoporosis USA (June)
597599 NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety Lamictal EU (March) and lamotrigine, a sodium channel blocker for long-term prophylaxis/prevention of bipolar
641597 PPAR alpha agonist dyslipidaemia USA (June) disorder
644784 COX2 inhibitor 2nd generation pain Lamictal USA (January) lamotrigine for add-on therapy in paediatric epilepsy
659032 Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis Lapdap EU (July) combination of chlorproguanil and dapsone for the treatment of malaria
678007 long-acting beta2 agonist COPD Levitra EU (March) and PDE V inhibitor for the treatment of male erectile dysfunction in-licensed from
679769 NK1 antagonist chemotherapy-induced nausea & vomiting USA (August) Bayer AG
742457 5HT6 antagonist Alzheimer’s disease & schizophrenia Lexiva USA (October) fosamprenavir, a protease inhibitor for HIV
773812 mixed 5HT/dopaminergic antagonist schizophrenia Paxil CR USA (August) controlled release formulation of paroxetine, a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor
796406 ACE/NEP dual inhibitor hypertension for continuous treatment of pre-menstrual dysphoric disorder
799943 glucocorticoid agonist asthma/COPD (inhaled), allergic rhinitis (intranasal) Paxil CR USA (October) paroxetine controlled release for social anxiety disorder
815541A dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitor type 2 diabetes Requip* USA ropinirole, a non-ergot dopamine D2 agonist for restless legs syndrome
823093 dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitor type 2 diabetes Seretide/Advair Diskus EU (May) and combination of salmeterol, a long-acting beta-blocker, and fluticasone, a
823296 NK 1 antagonist depression & anxiety USA (November) corticosteroid in a dry powder Diskus device for the treatment of COPD
825964 dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitor type 2 diabetes Valtrex USA (April) valaciclovir, a DNA polymerase inhibitor for the suppression of herpes simplex virus in
869682 sodium-dependent glucose transporter type 2 diabetes immuno-compromised patients
SGLT-2 inhibitor Valtrex EU and USA (August) valaciclovir, for the suppression of transmission of herpes simplex virus
873140 CCR5 antagonist HIV Wellbutrin XL USA (August) extended release formulation of bupropion for the treatment of depression
Augmentin once daily formulation of amoxicillin and clavulanate respiratory tract infections
* approvable letter January 2004
Avandamet XR extended release fixed dose combination of Avandia type 2 diabetes
and metformin
Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery Each CEDD is responsible for identifying the optimal drug
* Phase I started January 2004
The two essential steps in creating drug candidates are candidate for the desired biological effect and then assessing its
(i) optimising the lead compound for potency, efficacy, safety and safety and other development characteristics in preclinical screens.
Submissions
other intrinsic characteristics of the molecule and (ii) demonstrating Once this is achieved, the CEDDs are responsible for proving that
A number of significant dossiers were submitted to the regulatory authorities in the major regions during 2003 which are summarised in the validity of the therapeutic hypothesis through early clinical the compound is safe and efficacious in patients in small-scale
the table below. trials of the resulting candidate. The CEDDs are focused on specific clinical trials – the proof of concept decision point.
disease areas and designed to be nimble and entrepreneurial with
Product Country/Region Description A decision is then made on whether the information available
the range of skills and resources required to drive mid-stage
abacavir/lamivudine EU and USA fixed dose combination of 2 reverse transcriptase inhibitors for the treatment development projects from lead optimisation through to their key to date justifies the compound’s progression into late-stage drug
of HIV infections decision-point, demonstration of proof of concept, before major development where the necessary large-scale clinical trials are
Advair Diskus USA labelling for paediatric twice-daily dosing of the combination of salmeterol, investments are made to fund large-scale clinical trials. conducted to register and commercialise the product.
a long-acting beta-blocker, and fluticasone, a corticosteroid in a dry powder device In 2003, the CEDDs further accelerated the progress of new
A new Biopharmaceuticals CEDD was formed during 2003 to
Avandaryl USA combination of rosiglitazone and sulphonylurea for type 2 diabetes compounds into both first dosing in humans (see table of
extend R&D’s current efforts to discover and develop recombinant
Augmentin USA convenient tablet formulation, with a breakline, of amoxicillin and clavulanate for compounds progressed into Phase I on page 20) and initial
therapeutic proteins, monoclonal antibodies, and certain
bacterial infections evaluation of efficacy in patients. In addition, adjustments to the
therapeutic vaccines.
Imigran/Imitrex EU and USA a fast dissolve tablet formulation of sumatriptan, a 5HT antagonist processes involved in this stage of development are enabling a
Paxil CR USA controlled release formulation of paroxetine, a selective serotonin re-uptake There are seven CEDDs, based in the USA and Europe: reduction in development times.
inhibitor for intermittent treatment of pre-menstrual dysphoric disorder
Paxil Japan paroxetine for obsessive compulsive disorder • Biopharmaceuticals, centred in Stevenage (UK) As a result, a substantial number of new compounds achieved
Requip EU and USA ropinirole, a non-ergot dopamine D2 agonist for restless leg syndrome • Cardiovascular & Urogenital Diseases, centred in Upper Merion the critical milestone of proof of concept, where potential new
Seretide MDI EU a dose counter for the pressurised aerosol containing salmeterol and fluticasone (USA) medicines have been shown to have sufficient effect in the target
Seretide EU use of the pressurised aerosol containing salmeterol and fluticasone in • Metabolic & Viral Diseases, centred in Research Triangle Park patient group to justify the transition to the later stages of
paediatric asthma (USA) development.
• Microbial, Musculoskeletal & Proliferative Diseases, including
Serevent Diskus EU salmeterol, a long-acting beta-blocker in a dry powder Diskus device for the A major partnership was announced during 2003 with Imperial
cancer, centred in Upper Providence (USA)
treatment of COPD College, London, to develop a major Clinical Imaging Centre for
• Neurology & Gastrointestinal Diseases, centred in Harlow (UK)
GlaxoSmithKline at Imperial’s Hammersmith Hospital site.
• Psychiatry, centred in Verona (Italy)
• Respiratory and Inflammation, centred in Stevenage (UK).22 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 23
This is the first such partnership in the world, and will be a highly As described above, these TASTs were replaced at the beginning Since the Group was formed in December 2000, it has signed 36 Other late-stage projects terminated during 2003 were the
interactive relationship with the clinical service and on-going of 2004 with six MDC’s responsible for creating value through the major external collaborations, 24 for products in clinical development of oxibendazole for helminth intestinal infections
biomedical, chemical and IT research in a world-class academic delivery of full product development plans. This includes managing development and a further 12 for products at pre-clinical stage. in Phase III and in Phase II, both 559090 for asthma and 810781
centre and medical school. The Imaging Centre will provide unique the day-to-day operational activities for the post-PoC portfolio, Compounds that were the subject of in-licensing or co-promotion for the treatment of HIV.
new capabilities required to drive the clinical portfolio forward. delivery of medicines to patients, maximising the global commercial deals during 2003 were:
potential of products and ensuring strong partnerships with the Vaccines R&D
As part of GlaxoSmithKline’s major response to the challenges of • a pulsatile drug delivery system from Advancis, for use in the
CEDDs and Global Commercial Strategy (GCS). The project All vaccines R&D is conducted at GlaxoSmithKline’s biologicals
diseases affecting the developing world, the Microbial, controlled delivery of anti-microbials
management function has been integrated into the MDC centre in Rixensart, Belgium, including other related activities such
Musculoskeletal & Proliferative Diseases CEDD has responsibility • controlled release Micropump technology from Flamel
framework in order to provide direct expertise in the planning and as clinical development, regulatory strategy, commercial strategy,
for a drug discovery unit, based at Tres Cantos, that is dedicated Technologies for use in developing new formulations
execution of development activities. The MDC’s are therapeutically scaling up, production, packaging and all support functions. Over
to finding new medicines for these diseases. Research projects at • a nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor from Medivir for
aligned as follows: 1,000 research scientists are employed who are devoted to
Tres Cantos focus on malaria and TB and, together with work the treatment of HIV infections
discovering new vaccines and developing more cost-effective and
elsewhere in the Group on HIV/AIDS and vaccines, address the • Cardiovascular/Metabolic • a fixed-dose combination tablet containing combinations of
convenient combination products to prevent infections that cause
prevention and treatment of all three of the World Health • Infectious Diseases including DDW a long acting non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug from
serious medical problems worldwide. Discovery work identifies
Organization’s (WHO) top priority diseases. The Group also works • Musculoskeletal/Inflammation/Gastrointestinal/Urology POZEN and GlaxoSmithKline’s range of anti-migraine therapies,
new vaccines and these candidates are then expressed in yeast,
with numerous external partners worldwide in the search for new • Neuroscience (Psychiatry/Neurology) Imigran/Imitrex and Naramig/Amerge, to improve patient
bacteria or mammalian cells and purified to a very high level.
treatments for Diseases of the Developing World (DDW). • Oncology benefits in migraine
• Respiratory • solifenacin, a muscarinic antagonist for co-promotion with This is followed by formulation of the vaccine, which involves
Preclinical development Yamanouchi in the treatment of overactive bladder mixing antigens with selected adjuvants which will ultimately
These matrix teams are responsible for maximising the worldwide
Preclinical Development (PCD) participates in a wide range of • atriple monoamine re-uptake inhibitor for attention-deficit stimulate a good immune response in humans. The next step is
development opportunities for each product within their remit so
activities within the drug development process from optimising hyperactivity disorder, NS2359 (372475), as part of a broad to evaluate safety and efficacy of the candidate vaccine in in-vivo
that all information needed to support the registration, safety
the selection of compounds for potential development through alliance covering a number of research programmes in central models. Once preclinical proof of concept has been established,
programmes, pricing and formulary negotiations is available when
launch to the marketplace and enhancement of existing products nervous system diseases, with NeuroSearch A/S. the candidate vaccine is then tested in clinical trials in healthy
it is required. Commercial input from GCS ensures that at an early
by devising more convenient formulations. Early in the individuals to evaluate safety and how effective the vaccine is in
stage regional marketing needs are fully integrated into Current collaborative ADI partnerships are: Cytokinetics Inc.
development process, the metabolic rate and safety of compounds inducing an immune response to protect the body from disease
development plans. Careful prioritisation across all phases of (oncology: mitotic kinesin inhibitors), Shionogi & Co., (HIV and
are evaluated in laboratory animals prior to testing in humans. encountered later in a natural setting. Large-scale field trials in
development ensures that a high potential and integrated portfolio neurology programmes: potential broad based discovery
healthy individuals follow to establish safety and efficacy in a
The testing required in both animals and humans is mandated and is achieved. collaboration in antimicrobials, oncology, metabolic and
cross section of the population. The results obtained during clinical
is highly regulated by government agencies. neurology), Tanabe Seiyaku Co. Ltd. (broad based: neurology,
The MDCs collaborate at an early stage with the CEDDs to define trials and the development of a quality production process and
gastro-intestinal, urology, diabetes, respiratory), Exelixis Inc.
PCD researchers investigate dosage form (e.g. tablet or inhaled) target product profiles for new molecules and with integrated facilities are then combined into a regulatory file which is
(oncology, inflammation), Theravance Inc. (asthma), and Ranbaxy
and develop formulations to enhance the drug’s effectiveness. technical development and manufacturing functions to ensure submitted to the authorities in the various countries where the
Laboratories Ltd. (broad based).
PCD is also responsible for the development of drug formulations rapid, effective launch and delivery of the product. Innovative vaccine is to be made available.
used in clinical trials. Processes and supporting analytical methods clinical programmes for lead molecules from the CEDDs are GlaxoSmithKline has one academic ADI partner in the UK and
for drug synthesis and product formulation and delivery are scaled developed using cross-functional project teams. two in the USA. These are long term collaborative relationships in Animals and research
up to meet increasing supply requirements, ultimately leading to which the Group has committed funding for two years, with the For ethical, regulatory and scientific reasons, research using animals
Cross-functional input extends to focused life cycle management
the technical transfer of the processes and methods to option to renew for an additional three years. In addition, remains a vital part of the research and development of new
for products to deliver new indications and new presentations after
manufacturing. GlaxoSmithKline has already entered into a number of agreements medicines and vaccines. Animals are only used where no
the initial regulatory approval and commercial launch. Examples of
with third parties to co-develop and then co-market certain alternative is available and GlaxoSmithKline constantly aims to
The New Product Supply Process, a partnership between R&D and life cycle management include the extended release formulation,
compounds. These arrangements range from milestone payments reduce the numbers used. The Group strives to exceed industry
Global Manufacturing and Supply, ensures that a robust product Wellbutrin XL, and development programmes designed to deliver
to third parties to acquire rights to their intellectual property, to standards in the care and welfare of the animals it uses: laboratory
is developed for large scale commercial manufacturing and launch. new indications such as the use of Lamictal for bipolar disorder.
joint ventures to develop and commercialise specified compounds. animals are usually bred specifically for research and are well cared
Other key technology areas that provide ways to improve R&D’s The first products under the Gold Pass initiative, started in 2002, Under many of these agreements the Group has obligations to for throughout their lives by qualified, trained staff.
productivity include drug delivery systems, predictive technologies, Levitra and Wellbutrin XL, were launched in 2003. This make payments in the future if specified milestones are achieved.
When animals are used in research unnecessary pain or suffering
particle engineering and process innovation. The use of particle designation, agreed between R&D, regional markets and These financial commitments are summarised in Note 26 to the
is scrupulously avoided. GlaxoSmithKline is actively engaged in
engineering and process innovations enhances the ability to manufacturing, is a key component of the portfolio and resource Financial statements, ‘Commitments’.
research to develop and validate experimental methods that can
manufacture consistently high-quality products efficiently. prioritisation and management process, to ensure that the
provide more and better alternatives to the use of animals in
resources placed behind key emerging assets yield the optimum Discontinuations
research.
Worldwide development commercial benefit as well as the maximum medical benefit to All research and development carries a risk of failure
To provide focus for the development process, all the major patients. Gold Pass assets are of high value and strategic commensurate with the extension of scientific knowledge of a GlaxoSmithKline acknowledges that use of animals for research
functional components of clinical, medical, biomedical data, importance to GlaxoSmithKline and require specific organisational compound and its effects. Not all lead compounds that are purposes is a subject that rightly commands a high level of public
regulatory and safety have been integrated into this single visibility and urgency to meet patients’ needs. Consequently, only identified to possess positive activity against a validated target interest. The full GlaxoSmithKline Public Policy Position 'The care
management organisation, Worldwide Development. During 2003 a small number of assets receive Gold Pass status at any one time, will prove to be safe enough to introduce to humans or feasible and ethical use of animals in research' is available on the website,
there were six cross-functional Therapeutic Area Strategy Teams enabling the full focus of the organisation to be aligned. Two to manufacture on a commercial scale. GlaxoSmithKline R&D www.gsk.com, or from Secretariat.
(TASTs), each covering one of the following groups of diseases: further products, 353162 for depression and 572016 for cancer, endeavours to ensure that as far as possible these risks are
received the Gold Pass designation during the year. ameliorated by extensive predictive testing as early as possible in Research and development – Consumer Healthcare
• Cardiovascular, Urogenital and Metabolic Diseases
the development process. Despite these efforts, the ultimate test
• Infectious Diseases including DDW The principal centres for Consumer Healthcare R&D are in the UK
In-licensing and research collaborations for a product remains the point at which it is administered to
• Neurology & Gastro-intestinal Diseases and in the USA. The focus of R&D is on the identification and
GlaxoSmithKline has continued to identify compounds that would large numbers of patients with the disease. In 2003,
• Oncology, Musculoskeletal Diseases and Inflammation rapid development of novel products that bring benefits to
enhance the portfolio and to create innovative collaborations to GlaxoSmithKline and Merck KGaA reviewed the progress of the
• Psychiatry consumers in the OTC, Oral care and Nutritional healthcare
ensure that the Group is regarded as the partner of choice for development programme for the SSRI + 5HT1a receptor partial
• Respiratory. markets. Consumer Healthcare liaises closely with Pharmaceuticals
both large and small companies. agonist vilazodone. As a result, the companies agreed that the
to maximise the Group’s assets, by finding applications for
development programme should be terminated.
prescription products in the OTC marketplace.24 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 25
Operating resources
Intellectual property Levitrad. The Group has co-promotion rights under the US patent Trade marks Significant cost savings have been achieved through consolidation,
on the active ingredient vardenafil which is not due to expire until All of GlaxoSmithKline’s pharmaceutical products are protected by simplification and standardisation of basic infrastructure such as
GlaxoSmithKline regards its intellectual property as a key business
2018 in the USA. Pfizer has initiated legal action in the USA and registered trade marks in major markets. In general, the same mark networks, e-mail and business application hosting. A number of
asset. The effective legal protection of intellectual property is
certain other countries against Bayer and GlaxoSmithKline for is used for a product in each market around the world, but there new central infrastructure services are being introduced including
critical in ensuring a reasonable return on investment in R&D.
alleged infringement of their patent with a broad method of may be local variations. For example in the USA the trade mark hosting for web based applications, information storage and
Intellectual property can be protected by patents, trade marks,
treatment claim e. Paxil is used instead of Seroxat and Advair is used instead of document management.
registered designs, copyrights and domain name registrations.
Seretide.
Patent and trade mark rights are regarded as particularly valuable. Lexiva. GlaxoSmithKline is exclusive licensee under the patent Pro-active attention and management of computer virus threats
on the active ingredient fosamprenavir, which is not due to expire Trade mark protection may generally be extended for as long resulted in minimal impact to continuity of business operations.
Patents until 2017 in the USA and 2018 in Europe. as the trade mark is used by renewing it when necessary. Risk mitigation plans have been established in several important
GlaxoSmithKline’s policy is to obtain patent protection on all GlaxoSmithKline’s trade marks on pharmaceutical products computing risk areas, including externally facing systems, data
Paxil/Seroxat. The patent on the active ingredient paroxetine is
significant products discovered or developed through its R&D generally assume an increasing importance when the patent for privacy, business continuity plans, outsourced business applications
not due to expire until 2006 in the USA and Europe. Litigation
activities. Patent protection for new active ingredients is available that product has expired in a particular country and generic and compliance.
concerning validity and infringement of the patents protecting
in all significant markets. Protection can also be obtained for new versions of the product become available.
these products is ongoing in the USA e. Generic competition has
pharmaceutical formulations and manufacturing processes, and Transforming and extending business activities
commenced in the USA, UK and certain other markets. In the Consumer Healthcare business trade marks are particularly
for new medical uses and special devices for administering Insights gained from genomics and proteomics are transforming
important, as the business is very brand orientated and many
products. Retrovir. There are no patents on the active ingredient zidovudine. the way that disease targets are identified and validated.
products do not have patent protection.
Patents covering pharmaceutical formulations containing Information obtained from external sources may now be integrated
The basic patent position with respect to significant products is
zidovudine and their medical use are not due to expire until 2005 with internally generated information in a rapid and flexible
as follows: Information technology
in the USA and 2006 in Europe. manner, and subjected to further analysis to provide insights to
Augmentin. The basic patent on the key active ingredient, Information technology (IT) plays three strategic roles in support decision-making. Full advantage is being taken of advances
Seretide/Advair. The patents on the specific combination of active
potassium clavulanate has expired in all markets, except in Italy GlaxoSmithKline: in computer technology and increased processing power.
ingredients salmeterol and fluticasone propionate are not due
(2006c) and generic competition exists in most markets. Litigation
to expire until 2010 in the USA and 2013b in Europe. A challenge • supporting key business processes at the local, regional, Access to information for regulatory agencies, clinical opinion
concerning the clavulanic acid production strain is ongoing in the
has been made to the patent in the UK e. functional and global levels leaders, healthcare professionals, patients and the public has been
USA e.
• enabling the transformation and extension of key business enhanced. Steps have been taken to reduce reliance on paper
Serevent. Patents on the active ingredient salmeterol xinafoate are
Avandia and Avandamet. The basic patent on the active ingredient activities based processes for clinical trials and registration of new medicines
not due to expire until 2005b in most of Europe (2008b in France
rosiglitazone is not due to expire until 2011a in the USA and 2013b • facilitating collaboration and access to information on a through use of wireless, handheld technologies and the internet.
and 2009c in Italy) and until 2008 in the USA.
in Europe. Patents on the commercial form of the active ingredient global basis.
Many administrative processes including human resources,
rosiglitazone maleate are not due to expire until 2015 in the USA Trizivir. The patents on the specific combination of lamivudine,
In addition to computer infrastructure, hardware and software, procurement and technology support have been streamlined by
and 2014b in Europe. Litigation concerning validity and zidovudine and abacavir are not due to expire until 2016 in the
the IT organisation is responsible for voice and video technologies, moving to a self-service model, which enables employees to be
infringement of the patents protecting these products is ongoing USA and 2018b in Europe.
monitoring business and technology trends that could have an IT more self-sufficient and reduces the time and effort required to
in the USA e.
Valtrex. The patents on the active ingredient valaciclovir are not impact on GlaxoSmithKline and preparing the Group for the risks complete basic transactions. A major eLearning programme which
Avodart. Patents on the active ingredient dutasteride have a due to expire until 2009a in the USA and 2009b in Europe. associated with the latest information technology. allows employees to choose where and when to learn new skills
normal expiry of 2013 (USA) and 2014 (Europe). Requests for Litigation concerning validity and infringement of the patents while reducing training costs significantly has been introduced for
In 2003, IT focused on delivering increased value to the Group.
extension of term of these patents are pending and are expected protecting this product is ongoing in the USA e. sales force and technology training.
Almost all basic IT services have improved in quality whilst at the
to extend these dates to 2015a in the USA and 2017b in Europe.
Wellbutrin SR and Zyban. Patents on the basic active ingredient same time the cost of these services has been reduced. Return on Introduction of extranet capabilities that enable the secure
Combivir. The patents on the specific combination of lamivudine have expired. Various formulation patents protect the currently investment has been increased through the introduction of a new interaction between partners and suppliers has increased the
and zidovudine are not due to expire until 2012 in the USA and marketed SR (sustained release) formulations, the latest of which rapid low cost methodology for improving business processes effectiveness of the supply chain and collaboration with R&D
2013b in Europe. is not due to expire in the USA until 2013. In Europe, regulatory without requiring major technology investments and by establishing alliance partners and prescribers.
data exclusivity provides protection until at least 2005 and until a process to ensure that business application projects pay for
Coreg. GlaxoSmithKline is exclusive licensee under the US patent
2009 in some countries. Litigation concerning validity and themselves within one year. Collaborating and assessing information
on the active ingredient carvedilol, which is not due to expire until
infringement of the patents protecting these products is ongoing Enabling GlaxoSmithKline’s staff to be more productive remains
2007a.
in the USA e. Generic competition to one of the dosage forms has Supporting key business processes a high priority. The adoption of standard global tools to support
Epivir. The patents on the active ingredient lamivudine are not due already commenced in the USA and is expected shortly for other IT has developed web based tools that provide scientists with the collaboration and information access are critical enablers to
to expire until 2009a in the USA and 2011b in Europe. dosage forms. information they need on candidate medicines. In this way, early achieving this.
phase R&D teams can draw up shortlists of molecules for
Flixotide/Flovent and Flixonase/Flonase. In the USA, the patent on Ziagen. The basic patents on the active ingredient abacavir are A standard intranet portal has been adopted and is now the
consideration as possible treatments for specific diseases faster and
the active ingredient fluticasone propionate had an initial expiry not due to expire until 2011a in the USA and 2014b in Europe. primary communication channel for employees. Retrieval of
with more confidence in the quality of the shortlist. Other areas
date in 2003, but this has been extended by virtue of paediatric important information has been made easier and faster through
Zofran. The basic patents on the active ingredient ondansetron in R&D where IT is playing an important role are high-throughput
exclusivity until May 2004. In most European countries protection provision of a standard intranet searching capability.
are not due to expire until 2005 in the USA and 2005b in Europe, biology, laboratory automation, imaging, electronic data capture,
is not due to expire until 2005b.
(2007c France and 2010c Italy). Patents on use in treating emesis document management and clinical data management. Uptake of the Group’s standard collaboration product suite which
Imigran/Imitrex. The patents on the active ingredient sumatriptan expire in 2006. Litigation concerning validity and infringement of enables employees to work collaboratively across multiple
Implementation of the Group’s Enterprise Resources Planning
are not due to expire until 2008 in the USA and 2006b in Europe, the patents protecting these products is ongoing in the USA e. geographic and time zones increased significantly. Included in
strategy has continued. Common applications for use in
(2010c Italy). Litigation concerning validity and infringement of the this product suite are high-quality video-conferencing facilities,
manufacturing plants and commercial units have been
patents protecting these products is ongoing in the USA e. instant messaging and on-line meeting services.
implemented in a number of sites. Standard transactions and
Lamictal. The patents on the active ingredient lamotrigine are not middleware are being used to enable efficient movement across Progress is being made on the global implementation of a standard
due to expire until 2008a in the USA and 2005b in most countries a Including extension of term the supply chain whilst allowing for independent optimisation of desktop which provides employees with improved access to
b Including extension of term by supplementary protection certificates
in Europe. Litigation concerning validity and infringement of the commercial units at a regional or functional level as well as information and business applications. A lower cost, light-weight
c Including extension of term by national supplementary protection certificate, as
patents protecting this product is ongoing in the USA e. notified following a recent change in Italian law but subject to legal challenges manufacturing. web based desktop is also under development.
d Registered trademark of Bayer AG.
e See Note 30 to the Financial statements.26 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 27
The business and society
GlaxoSmithKline people Last year marked the first annual Multicultural Marketing and Corporate responsibility EHS management
Diversity Awards, with 78 entrants from five countries. The event GlaxoSmithKline takes a systematic approach to managing EHS
GlaxoSmithKline people are fundamental to the success of the GlaxoSmithKline is committed to connecting business decisions
highlighted activities that serve diverse employees, customers and risks and impacts. A framework of information and programmes
business. Their skills and intellect are key components in the to ethical, social and environmental concerns. Solid financial
stakeholders across GlaxoSmithKline’s global community. based on the global EHS standards guides the management of
successful implementation of sound business strategy. This is the performance is closely connected to ethical business practices.
key aspects, impacts and risks throughout the organisation.
human capital that maximises the potential of the Group’s The Group is committed to employment policies free from The Group understands that it is not just how much profit it
scientific, commercial and financial assets. The outcome of effective discrimination against potential or existing staff on the grounds of makes that matters. Stakeholders want to know how that profit
EHS assurance and improvement
human resources policy is GlaxoSmithKline’s solid reputation as an age, race, ethnic and national origin, gender, sexual orientation, is made and to be reassured of the sound ethical basis for the
As part of its governance responsibility, GlaxoSmithKline conducts
international employer of choice. faith or disability. In particular GlaxoSmithKline is committed to business. GlaxoSmithKline has identified the broad issues that
EHS audits of its sites, key contract manufacturers and suppliers.
offering people with disabilities access to the full range of have generated interest from stakeholders and reports on these
To achieve this, the Group initiated Candidate Care – the The processes are based on assessing performance against the
recruitment and career opportunities. Every effort is made to retain each year in the Corporate Responsibility Report. This is available
commitment to seeking and acquiring the best employment EHS standards and include quantitative performance measurement.
and support staff who become disabled. from Secretariat and on the website at www.gsk.com.
candidates who reflect a diversity of background, experience In 2003, 31 sites were audited and three follow-up reviews were
and perspective and who can contribute most to the success of GlaxoSmithKline has a Corporate Responsibility Committee of performed. As part of the continuous improvement process,
Talent management and leadership development
GlaxoSmithKline. Non-Executive Directors, which has oversight of corporate progress was monitored on actions arising from issues raised on
Development planning is a key element in performance planning
responsibility matters. It advises the Board on social, ethical and all audits.
for all employees each year. Reviews are conducted in each
Performance and reward environmental issues that have the potential to impact seriously
business and function to ensure that a diverse talent pool is fully In 2003, a pilot exercise was conducted with Global Manufacturing
The importance of people must translate into employment GlaxoSmithKline’s business and reputation. The Corporate
developed to meet future business needs, and that successors are and Supply to investigate obtaining Group wide third party
practices that demonstrate the value of each individual. Executive Team directs the Group’s corporate responsibility
identified for key positions. certification to the international standards on environmental and
Compensation and benefit packages (GlaxoSmithKline’s Total activities. The General Counsel is responsible for managing the
health and safety management systems (ISO 14001 and OHSAS
Reward) aim to be competitive and innovative and are either Comprehensive leadership development opportunities are available overall programme.
18001). Five sites achieved certification to both standards as part
global or local in orientation, depending on what best drives to managers at all levels. These opportunities are targeted to help
Corporate responsibility issues and dialogue with stakeholders are of this process. This is in addition to the 12 sites that had
business performance and rewards individual contribution. leaders to meet the challenges they face in a complex global
managed in the most appropriate functions within GlaxoSmithKline previously been individually certified to ISO 14001. The pilot
organisation. They ensure leaders motivate teams and individuals
Compensation philosophy and programme development rather than through a central department. This ensures they confirmed the feasibility of the approach and the programme will
to do their best work.
underscore GlaxoSmithKline’s commitment to a performance remain an integrated part of the everyday operation of the continue on a voluntary basis. Global certification should be
culture. Performance based pay, both base and variable, share business. To facilitate policy development, implementation and achieved in three to four years.
Human Resources services and information systems
awards, share options, performance and development planning communication, however, a cross-functional team was established
GlaxoSmithKline’s human resource delivery strategy is designed As part of the commitment to corporate social responsibility and
and evaluation contribute to retention of key talent, superior at the beginning of 2002 to ensure a co-ordinated and
to make the most of technology. Human Resources services and the pro-active management of the GlaxoSmithKline manufacturing
performance and accomplishment of business targets. comprehensive approach. This team, made up of representatives
information are delivered through low cost, highly effective and supply base, 16 of the key contract manufacturers and
from the key business areas, ensures that policies are in place and
A commitment to flexible working through flexi-time, channels that make it easy for job candidates, employees, and suppliers were also assessed. This process evaluated the
mechanisms exist for their implementation and monitoring.
teleconferencing, remote working and flexible work schedules, retirees to access information about employment, compensation management of EHS risks and impacts based on the Group’s EHS
recognises that employees work best in an environment that and benefits, policies and programmes. These include intuitive During 2003 the cross-functional team developed a set of requirements for contract manufacturers. Generally good
helps them integrate their work and personal lives. personalised web based tools, available to employees in many corporate responsibility principles for GlaxoSmithKline. This sets performance was identified and recommendations were made
locations. out the approach to ten areas: standards of ethical conduct, where improvements were needed.
Communication and involvement leadership and advocacy, research and innovation, products and
To stimulate employee engagement, a daily news service is in Property, plant and equipment customers, access to medicines, employment practices, human Objectives and targets
place on all business unit intranet sites. This includes daily Group rights, community investment, caring for the environment and Objectives for 2003 focused on the theme of reducing key risks.
GlaxoSmithKline has invested over £4 billion in its property, with
news and announcements, an online news magazine service, the engagement with stakeholders. The risks identified as most significant, based on past performance,
a carrying value in the Financial statements of almost £3 billion,
Chief Executive Officer’s home page and Q&A, and an online were driver safety, ergonomics, chemical exposures, process safety,
with a further £3.7 billion, at carrying value, invested in plant and In some instances, such as caring for the environment and access
information resource to encourage employees to serve as company resilience and well being and emergency response.
equipment and assets in construction. In 2003, GlaxoSmithKline to medicines, performance measures are already in place to
ambassadors. Where appropriate, the publication of media
invested £870 million in new and renewal property, plant and support demonstration of progress. For other principles the Progress was made on all issues and work will continue into 2004.
clippings is also accompanied by a Group position statement to
equipment. This is mainly related to a large number of projects for potential for developing performance indicators to support Objectives for 2004 will centre around emerging issues such as
ensure employee access to key messages on important issues.
the improvement and expansion of facilities at various worldwide effective management and communication is being explored pharmaceuticals in the environment, chemicals policy and climate
An employee survey was undertaken during 2003 to determine sites. Property is mainly held freehold. New investment is financed further. The aim is to strike a balance between the desires of change, with a theme of responding to external EHS challenges.
employee satisfaction with communications channels and content, from Group liquid resources. At 31st December 2003, the Group stakeholders for greater transparency about the operations of
Numerical targets for EHS improvements set in 2001 are to be
and more than 70 per cent of employees expressed satisfaction had capital contractual commitments for future expenditure of GlaxoSmithKline, and the realities and costs of running the
accomplished over five years. The health and safety target is a
with them. An employee broadcast, hosted by the CEO and some £171 million and in 2004 operating lease commitments of business.
reduction in lost time injury and illness rate by 15 per cent per
Chairman, Pharmaceuticals R&D, was held in December to £120 million.
Further information on these issues may be found in the Corporate year. Environmental targets include reductions in energy usage
recognise 2003 performance, remind employees of R&D pipeline
GlaxoSmithKline’s business is science-based, technology-intensive Responsibility Report 2003. An overview of three of the key and associated greenhouse gas emissions, reductions in solvent
information and reiterate global strategy for 2004. Share
and highly regulated by governmental authorities. It allocates corporate areas of Environment, health and safety, Access to emissions and the amount of waste and wastewater disposed.
ownership schemes encourage participation as owners of the
significant financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of healthcare and Community investments follow. Progress toward meeting these targets is tracked every year and
business, increasing awareness of short and long term business
its property, plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption will be published on www.gsk.com. To date significant progress
objectives. Global and local employee opinion surveys allow
of production and to achieve compliance with regulatory Responsibility for environment, health and safety has been made towards achieving all EHS targets.
employees the opportunity to express their views and perspectives
standards. The research and development and manufacture of
on important Group issues. Environment, health and safety (EHS) is a key element of corporate
pharmaceuticals uses chemicals and hazardous materials. The Performance improvement measures
responsibility for the Group and has a high priority. Responsibility
Group observes stringent procedures and uses specialist skills to GlaxoSmithKline measures the impact on the health and safety of
Diversity for EHS is at the highest level. There is a corporate group reporting
manage environmental risks from these activities. Environmental people who work at its sites and the impact on the environment.
The GlaxoSmithKline diversity initiative continued to focus on to the General Counsel that has overall responsibility for providing
issues, sometimes dating from operations now modified or The measure of impact on people is the lost time injury and illness
creating an inclusive work environment, aiming to enhance governance and leadership on EHS issues. The head of this group
discontinued, are referenced under ‘Responsibility for Environment, rate, enough to result in lost time per 100,000 hours worked.
employee innovation and productivity, and measurably improve makes regular reports to the Corporate Executive Team (CET) and
health and safety’ (page 27) and in Note 30 to the Financial The impacts on air, water and land are measured as metric tonnes
employee attraction, development and retention. the Audit Committee. Within operations, line managers are
statements, ‘Legal proceedings’. GlaxoSmithKline believes that its of material emitted, waste disposed and the impact on natural
responsible for EHS and are supported by site-based EHS and
facilities are adequate for its current needs. resources is measured as cubic metres of water used and gigajoules
occupational health professionals.
of energy consumed.28 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 29
GlaxoSmithKline selects its measures of performance improvement Access to healthcare in the developing world Preferential pricing is improving access. The Group has 175 Global community investment
based on the risk. Risks are determined, in part, through evaluation arrangements, covering 56 of the world’s poorest countries, to
Access to healthcare in developing countries remains a unique GlaxoSmithKline’s global community investment activities in 2003
of impacts. The impacts considered were those with the potential supply ARVs at preferential prices. Customers include governments,
challenge to the global community. The problem, which is rooted were valued at £338 million. This included £125 million for the
for adverse impact on people or the environment, business non-governmental organisations (NGOs), hospitals, academic
in poverty, demands a significant mobilisation of resources and a Group’s Patient Assistance Programs and other medicine donations
continuity or business reputation. Most of the measures selected institutions and private employers.
true spirit of partnership. It must be tackled as a shared for low income groups in the USA, and £105 million of
are similar to those reported by other companies and are
responsibility by all sectors of global society. The Group does not The offer of not-for-profit prices requires a sustainable framework, humanitarian product donations. This total was equivalent to
recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative, a long-term,
have the mandate, expertise or resources to address the underlying combining the Group’s commitment to preferential pricing with 5.3 per cent of Group profit before tax and included £17 million
multi-stakeholder, international undertaking to develop and
problems that exist. However, GlaxoSmithKline continues to play commitments from governments to avoid price referencing against in costs to manage and deliver community programmes in more
disseminate globally applicable sustainability reporting guidelines.
a vital role, through its commitment to R&D into diseases preferentially priced medicines and to help prevent product than 100 countries.
particularly prevalent in the developing world, through its diversion. GlaxoSmithKline has taken steps to minimise the threat
Product stewardship Many of the programmes are long term commitments that help
programme of preferential pricing for its anti-retrovirals (ARVs), of diversion and is now able to supply 57 countries with Combivir
GlaxoSmithKline has a global standard for product stewardship bring about sustainable change in underserved communities.
anti-malarials and vaccines, and through its community investment in a special access pack. Similar efforts are underway to secure
that establishes requirements for responsible and ethical The Group’s community investment activities are mainly focused
activities and partnerships. widespread regulatory approval for Trizivir and Epivir access packs
management of EHS aspects of products throughout their life on health and education and include:
and to colour differentiate the product, not just the packaging.
cycles. Product stewardship provides a systematic way to identify
R&D for diseases of the developing world
product or process risks early, so that they may be mitigated, However, this alone will not fully deter illegal traders who are Public health programmes
Growing anti-infective resistance to current treatments, inadequate
managed and ultimately eliminated. Integrating product experts in the repackaging of medicines. GlaxoSmithKline therefore The Global Alliance to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis
healthcare infrastructure and poor patient compliance to complex
stewardship into business activities protects people and the welcomed the political commitment to prevent diversion that arose GlaxoSmithKline’s flagship community programme aims to
treatment regimens continues to drive the need for investment in
environment, enhances compliance with local regulatory from the G8 Summit in June 2003, and the European Union eliminate this disfiguring mosquito-borne disease from the world
R&D into new drugs and vaccines for diseases that affect the
requirements and avoids interruption of product supply. Anti-Diversion Regulation of May 2003. Other countries should be by 2020. The company has committed to provide as much of the
developing world.
encouraged to take similar steps and ensure the introduction, and anti-parasitic drug albendazole as required (an estimated 5-6 billion
Environmental sustainability GlaxoSmithKline believes that it has the industry’s most extensive strict enforcement of, measures to counter this trade, the main preventative treatments) to treat the one billion people at risk in
The concept of sustainable development is central to the Group’s portfolio of products and R&D projects for diseases of the beneficiaries of which are the illegal importers. 80 countries.
environmental programmes. Work has started towards eventual developing world. It undertakes R&D into the prevention and
In October 2003, GlaxoSmithKline extended the voluntary licence GlaxoSmithKline and WHO were founders of the Global Alliance
environmental sustainability by mitigating environmental impacts treatment of all three of the World Health Organization’s (WHO)
granted to Aspen Pharmacare, sub-Saharan Africa’s largest generics to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis (LF), a unique partnership which
and looking at ways to improve production efficiency. The use of priority diseases in the developing world - HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis
company, for the manufacture and sale of Combivir, Epivir and includes Ministries of Health in endemic countries, non­
renewable resources and the overall balance of the consumption (TB) and malaria.
Retrovir. The licence was previously limited to only the public sector governmental organisations, community-based organisations,
of resources with the generation of waste will be investigated in
In addition to the R&D on HIV/AIDS, GlaxoSmithKline has an R&D in South Africa and Zimbabwe. The Group has now extended the academic institutions, international organisations and the private
the future. The Group has a standard on sustainable development
team (based in Spain and the UK) dedicated to treatments for licence to cover both the public and private sectors across all of sector.
that defines the approach from discovery through manufacturing
Diseases of the Developing World. Projects are prioritised primarily sub-Saharan Africa.
to sales. Environmental sustainability starts with R&D. As part of In 2003, the fifth year of the programme, 94 million tablets,
on their socio-economic and public health benefits rather than on
the support for R&D, a toolkit has been developed to assist in the worth almost £11 million at wholesale acquisition cost, were
their commercial returns. The Group currently has over 19 R&D Success through partnership
selection of green chemistries and processes. donated to 34 countries. As part of this ongoing preventative
projects and programmes of relevance to the developing world, GlaxoSmithKline continues to build on its history of community
programme, GlaxoSmithKline shipped 10 million albendazole
nine of which are aimed at producing vaccines and medicines for investment programmes and support for better healthcare delivery
Access to healthcare in the developed world tablets to the Sri Lanka Ministry of Health, which mobilised 50,000
diseases that disproportionally affect developing countries. and education in under-served communities in the developing
healthcare workers and volunteers to treat 10 million people in a
GlaxoSmithKline plays an active part in improving healthcare of world. The Group does this through active engagement with
The Group is increasingly involved in public-private partnerships to single day in July. It was one of the largest community treatment
people who have limited access to medicines. Our Orange Card other external stakeholders. During 2003, it consulted and worked
enable a wide range of projects to be undertaken. 2003 saw one programmes of its type to take place in the developing world. In
scheme has helped more than 150,000 senior American citizens with governments of both the developed and developing world,
of the first tangible outputs of such partnerships with the launch addition, the Group gave grants of almost £1 million and staff
on low incomes to save on the medicines they buy. In 2003, the the UN, the WHO, NGOs and with the investment community.
of the anti-malarial, Lapdap. The result of a collaboration between expertise to support the activities of the Global Alliance to
group reinforced its commitment to this programme until at least
the WHO, the UK government, the University of Liverpool and the Much was achieved in 2003, specifically around HIV/AIDS funding, Eliminate LF, including advocacy, research, community mobilisation
2006.
London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, with support by thanks to initiatives such as the Global Fund and President Bush’s and educational initiatives.
This brings company-sponsored savings programmes into a single an initial grant from the Wellcome Trust, Lapdap has already been Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief. However, a significant increase in
card, extending the possible savings at the pharmacy counter to launched in a number of African countries. resources is still needed and it is also important to maintain GlaxoSmithKline’s Positive Action on HIV/AIDS
more than 170 widely prescribed medicines with this easy to use incentives for R&D through protection of intellectual property. 2003 marked the 11th year of Positive Action, GlaxoSmithKline’s
card. Together Rx participants are able to save up to 40 per cent Preferential pricing arrangements There is, for example, neither a cure nor a vaccine for HIV/AIDS. pioneering global programme of HIV education, care and
off the usual amount paid for prescriptions. By the end of 2003 GlaxoSmithKline has offered its vaccines to public health community support. During 2003 Positive Action supported 38
GlaxoSmithKline will continue with its vital contribution to
approximately 1.2 million people had joined this programme. programmes at significant discounts for over 20 years. The Group programmes in 34 countries with 28 partners. Positive Action has
improving healthcare in the developing world. However, real
also sets a single, sustainable, not-for-profit price for each of its a focus in sub-Saharan Africa because of the magnitude of the
progress will only occur if the significant barriers that stand in the
ARVs and anti-malarials to a wide range of customers in the least HIV/AIDS pandemic there, but the programme also supports
way of better access to healthcare are tackled as a shared
developed countries and sub-Saharan Africa, as well as projects affected communities in other countries around the world.
responsibility by all sectors of global society - governments,
fully-funded by the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria.
international agencies, charities, academic institutions, the Support included a grant of £20,000 to the Movement of Men
This means that the not-for-profit prices are offered in a total of
pharmaceutical industry and others. Against AIDS in Kenya (MMAAK) to encourage men’s engagement
100 countries. GlaxoSmithKline is committed to contributing to
and involvement with all aspects of the HIV/AIDS crisis, since men
health improvements in a sustainable manner.
are commonly the decision-makers in the workplace, government
The preferential prices for GlaxoSmithKline ARVs and anti-malarials and religious institutions. Another example of support of
are therefore set at levels at which no profit is made, but direct vulnerable communities was a grant of £50,000 to +VE, a UK-
costs are covered, allowing supply to be sustained for as long as based NGO, to develop a low-cost health education resource on
required. The Group has undertaken to reduce these prices HIV, hepatitis and sexual health for use in UK prisons.
whenever possible and was able to meet this commitment twice in
2003.30 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 31
To help address the growing HIV/AIDS problem in China, the Other 2003 education programmes included £100,000 for Science The Group’s efforts to improve public education included a grant Employee involvement
Group provided £300,000 to the British Red Cross and Australian Across the World, an international education programme that uses of $383,000 for ‘Science in the Summer’, a free library-based GlaxoSmithKline employees are encouraged to contribute to their
Red Cross for a three-year programme to prevent the spread of web based resources to promote discussion of science issues within science education programme in the Philadelphia area teaching local communities through employee volunteering schemes.
HIV through training young people and drug users in HIV and between schools in almost 100 countries. For the seventh year, basic scientific concepts to children. Now in its 17th year, more Support varies around the world but includes employee time,
prevention and life skills. the Group sponsored the Royal Institution Christmas Lectures than 60,000 children have participated in the programme. cash donations to charities where employees have completed
broadcast by Channel Four television, which give young people the voluntary work and a matching gifts programme. In many
In Russia and Ukraine, where there is a rapidly increasing incidence The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill received $250,000
opportunity to be inspired by eminent scientists. countries, GlaxoSmithKline offers tax-efficient options for employee
of HIV/AIDS, GlaxoSmithKline has provided funding to establish as part of an overall $1.25 million grant for a travelling science
giving in accordance with local taxation guidelines.
and support national networks of positive people to help them As part of GlaxoSmithKline’s commitment to the environment, the laboratory to help improve science teaching and encourage
advocate for HIV education, prevention, care and treatment Group sponsored ‘Go-Wild’, a one-off ‘living’ festival at the Royal underserved students to pursue careers in science. In 2003, in the USA, the Group matched more than 14,660
services. In addition, the Group granted $1.6 million over two Botanic Gardens Kew, which received over 500,000 visitors from employee gifts at a value of $3.8 million.
The US pharmaceuticals group launched GlaxoSmithKline Healthy
years to support the work of two HIV/AIDS clinics in Malawi and May to September 2003.
Communities in 2003, a health education and outreach The Group also matched the $1.3 million of employee donations
Uganda.
programme to advance healthy living among African Americans. to the federal United Way campaign in the USA, giving a combined
Europe
The Congressional Black Caucus Foundation has to date received contribution of $2.6 million. In addition, GlaxoSmithKline’s
The GlaxoSmithKline African Malaria Partnership Corporate programmes in Europe in 2003 focused on improving
$250,000 as part of a $500,000 grant over a four year period to Investment in Volunteer Excellence (GIVE) programme provided
The GlaxoSmithKline African Malaria Partnership supports three children’s health with total funding of £1 million supporting a
help support high school graduates and college students interested over 1,000 grants to charitable organisations in the USA where
behavioural development programmes working in seven African range of long-term programmes. In addition, GlaxoSmithKline
in pursuing careers in science or medicine. employees or their partners have volunteered at least 50 hours in
countries. During 2003, the Group disbursed the first grants of a companies in Europe provided a further £12 million for regional
the year.
$1.5 million commitment to its partners; Freedom From Hunger, community activities.
International
AMREF and Plan International. The programmes are expected to GlaxoSmithKline’s Making a Difference programme in the UK
The European Forum for Families and Children Living with HIV/AIDS Over and above the Group’s corporate public health programmes
benefit nearly two million people and focus particularly on young provided grants of £286,000 to over 450 non-profit organisations
received £150,000. This three year programme works with young in developing countries, other corporate programmes in the
children and pregnant women, encouraging effective prevention or registered charities based on employee involvement.
people in Italy, Portugal, Romania, Russia and Spain to alleviate International region addressed health education and mobilisation,
measures, prompt treatment and antenatal malaria management.
HIV-associated stigma and discrimination. providing funding of £1 million in 2003.
Foundations
Regional community initiatives Barretstown in Ireland and L’Envol in France, which support The Group provided £244,000 to the PHASE initiative (Personal GlaxoSmithKline does not operate a single charitable foundation
United Kingdom European children with cancer and life-threatening illnesses to Hygiene and Sanitation Education) in Kenya, Zambia, Nicaragua for its community investment programmes but has a number of
GlaxoSmithKline contributed £4 million in 2003 to its continuing rediscover their own inner strength and self-esteem, received and Peru. During the last four years, PHASE has provided education country-based foundations in Canada, the Czech Republic, France,
corporate programme of charitable activities in the UK. These £300,000 and £100,000, respectively. to 150,000 school children to reduce diarrhoea-related disease Italy, Romania, Spain and the USA.
support over 200 projects within the areas of health, medical and death.
GlaxoSmithKline continued to support the charity HealthProm and Over the last five years, the GlaxoSmithKline France Foundation
research, science education and the arts and the environment. In
the Azerbaijan Health Ministry, investing £83,000 in 2003 for the In Ethiopia the Group provided £100,000 for the Integrated has supported 32 programmes in 13 African countries to improve
addition GlaxoSmithKline companies in the UK provided a further
fourth year of a safe childbirth initiative to benefit 228,000 Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI) in partnership with HIV/AIDS prevention education, training and care. By 2005 over
£7.1 million for community purposes, giving a combined total of
refugees. WHO and Unicef. This enables families to improve key household 240,000 people are expected to have benefited. In 2003, the
£11.1 million in support of projects in the UK.
practice and behaviours that will have a significant impact on Foundation provided £506,000 or €733,000 in funding to 17
Zippy’s Friends, a school programme run by Partnership for
To further medical research, a total of £354,000 was provided to child survival rates, and their growth and development. ongoing initiatives as part of this five year commitment.
Children to teach coping skills to young children in Denmark and
Epilepsy Research Foundation, International Spinal Research Trust,
Lithuania, continued to receive funding of £200,000, and extended In Pakistan, the National Commission for Human Development The North Carolina GlaxoSmithKline Foundation in the USA is an
National Osteoporosis Society and Tommy’s, the baby charity.
its reach to the UK and India. (NCHD) received £48,000 to focus on improving maternal health endowed, self-funding organisation which operates as a separate
GlaxoSmithKline’s annual UK Impact Awards recognise excellence in rural areas. entity. The Foundation publishes its own Annual Report, which is
in the work of voluntary community health organisations across North America available on request, and uses its asset base to support
the UK. In 2003, 10 UK charities each received an unrestricted Corporate programmes in North America focused on improving Product donations mathematics, science and health education in North Carolina.
award of £25,000, for their work dealing with issues as diverse as public education and access to better healthcare for children and GlaxoSmithKline donates essential products, such as antibiotics, In 2003, this Foundation made donations totalling just over
sexual abuse, mental health, elderly day care and disability. seniors with funding of $15 million. A further $62.3 million was for humanitarian relief efforts. Donations are made at the request $2 million which is included in the Group’s total community
donated by the Group’s US based businesses to regional of governments and major charitable organisations and may be investment figure.
A donation of almost £170,000 was made to the charity Beating
community activities. manufactured specifically to meet these requirements.
Bowel Cancer for a national awareness campaign about bowel
GlaxoSmithKline works in partnership with charitable organisations
cancer, the UK’s second most deadly cancer, aimed at highlighting Examples of GlaxoSmithKline’s contribution to improving
who deliver relief, including AmeriCares, InterChurch Medical
the symptoms and promoting early diagnosis to save lives. healthcare include a three-year grant of more than $2 million
Assistance, MAP International and Project HOPE, and ensure the
which has helped expand The Children’s Health Fund’s Referral
GlaxoSmithKline hopes to encourage the next generation of right product reaches the right person at the right time. For
Management Initiative (RMI) into seven US states, ensuring
scientists through supporting science education programmes that example, the Group donated vital medicines for the first airlift into
continuity of specialist medical care for high-risk children who are
give science context and enhance science teaching. The Group Iraq in April and for an aid flight to Kosovo, organised by
often homeless.
has committed £1 million over four years in support of Phase Two AmeriCares. GlaxoSmithKline also provided relief following
of the new Darwin Centre at the Natural History Museum in The GlaxoSmithKline SHARE Recognition Awards have recognised earthquakes in India and flooding in Nicaragua.
London. GlaxoSmithKline continued to support the INSPIRE the work of small community-based organisations that aim to
In 2003, the total value of the Group’s international humanitarian
(INnovative Scheme for Post-docs in Research and Education) improve the health of older people across diverse cultures. In 2003,
product donations was £105 million. This excludes albendazole
scheme, developed in partnership with Imperial College London six organisations received a total of $450,000, providing extra
donated as part of the Group’s commitment to the lymphatic
and the Specialist Schools Trust, with a £1 million donation over support to launch new programmes or to strengthen ongoing
filariasis elimination programme. Product donations are valued at
four years. INSPIRE aims to raise achievement in science by placing initiatives.
wholesale acquisition cost which is the wholesale list price, not
post-doctoral researchers in specialist science schools to assist with
The annual USA Impact Awards acknowledge and reward including discounts, and is a standard industry method.
science teaching and to study for a teaching qualification.
excellence in the non-profit healthcare sector, in the Greater
Philadelphia area. In 2003, nine charities each received an
unrestricted award of $40,000 for their work dealing with issues
as diverse as child abuse, breast cancer and sexual and
reproductive health.32 GlaxoSmithKline GlaxoSmithKline 33
Corporate governance
This section discusses GlaxoSmithKline’s management
structures and governance procedures.
It contains the company’s reporting disclosures on corporate
governance required by the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance of the UK Listing Authority (1998 Code); including
the required statement of compliance.
It also gives details of the principles and provisions of the new
Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial
Reporting Council (2003 Code), with which GlaxoSmithKline is
required to comply from 1st January 2004 and report on in the
2004 Annual Report. The measures implemented to achieve this
are described in this section.
Further, the company reports on compliance with the relevant
US laws and regulations that apply to it.
34 The Board
35 Corporate Executive Team
36 Governance and policy
37 Dialogue with shareholders
38 Annual General Meeting
38 Internal control framework
40 Committee reports
41 The Combined Code
42 US law and regulation34 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance Corporate governance GlaxoSmithKline 35
The Board John McArthur (Aged 69) Corporate Executive Team (CET) David Pulman
Appointed 23rd May 2000 President
Sir Christopher Hogg (Aged 67) JP Garnier
Non-Executive Director. Mr McArthur was formerly a Non-Executive Global Manufacturing & Supply
Appointed on 23rd May 2000 Chief Executive Officer
Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc. He is a Non-Executive Director of Dr Pulman is responsible for the global manufacturing and supply
Non-Executive Chairman. Sir Christopher was formerly a As Chief Executive Officer, Dr Garnier is responsible for the
BCE Inc., BCE Emergis Inc., Cabot Corporation, HCA Corporation, chain network. He joined Glaxo in 1978 and was responsible for
Non-Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. He is management of the Group. He oversees all operational aspects
Koc Holdings A.S., Rohm and Haas Company, Telsat Canada and the North American supply network, manufacturing strategy and
Non-Executive Chairman of Reuters Group PLC and a member of including establishing policies, objectives and initiatives, and he
The AES Corporation. He is also Senior Advisor to the President of logistics until his current appointment in 2002.
the Supervisory Board of Air Liquide S.A. and Chairman of directs long-term strategy. He was formerly Chief Executive Officer
the World Bank.
The Royal National Theatre. of SmithKline Beecham, having joined the Group in 1990. David Stout
Donald McHenry (Aged 67) President
Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier (Aged 56) Rupert Bondy
Appointed on 23rd May 2000 Pharmaceutical Operations
Appointed on 23rd May 2000 Senior Vice President and General Counsel
Non-Executive Director. Mr McHenry was formerly a Non-Executive Mr Stout is responsible for the global pharmaceuticals and vaccines
Chief Executive Officer. Dr Garnier was appointed an Executive Mr Bondy is responsible for legal matters across the Group,
Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. His other Non-Executive businesses. He joined SmithKline Beecham in 1996 as head of its
Director of SmithKline Beecham plc in 1992, and became Chief together with environmental, health and safety issues, insurance
directorships include The Coca-Cola Company, FleetBoston US Sales and Marketing, and was President, US Pharmaceuticals,
Executive Officer in April 2000. He is a Non-Executive Director of and security. He was a lawyer in private practice before joining
Financial Corporation, International Paper Company and AT&T until his current appointment in January 2003.
United Technologies Corporation and a member of the Board of SmithKline Beecham in 1995.
Corporation.
Trustees of the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships. He holds a Chris Viehbacher
Ford Calhoun
PhD in pharmacology from the University of Louis Pasteur in Sir Ian Prosser (Aged 60) President
Chief Information Officer
France and an MBA from Stanford University in the USA. Appointed 23rd May 2000 US Pharmaceuticals
Dr Calhoun is responsible for information technology, a global
Non-Executive Director. Sir Ian was formerly a Non-Executive Mr Viehbacher has been responsible for US pharmaceuticals since
John Coombe (Aged 58) function that enables key business processes across all parts of the
Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. He was Chairman of Six January 2003. He joined Wellcome in 1988 and became Director,
Appointed on 23rd May 2000 Group. With doctoral and post-doctoral training in microbiology,
Continents PLC and the World Travel & Tourism Council and is Continental Europe at Glaxo Wellcome in 1999. He was
Chief Financial Officer. Mr Coombe was formerly an Executive genetics, biomathematics and computer science, he joined Smith
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of BP plc. He is a member of responsible for GlaxoSmithKline’s European Pharmaceuticals
Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc where he was responsible for Kline & French in 1984.
the CBI President’s Committee. business before his current appointment.
Finance and Investor Relations. He is a member of the Supervisory
John Coombe
Board of Siemens AG and the Code Committee of the UK Dr Ronaldo Schmitz (Aged 65) Andrew Witty
Chief Financial Officer
Takeover Panel. Appointed 23rd May 2000 President
As head of the finance function, Mr Coombe is responsible for
Non-Executive Director. Dr Schmitz was formerly a Non-Executive Pharmaceuticals Europe
Dr Michèle Barzach (Aged 60) activities such as financial reporting and control, tax and treasury,
Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc. He is a Non-Executive Director of Mr Witty has been responsible for the Group’s pharmaceuticals
Appointed on 23rd May 2000 investor relations, finance systems, internal audit and real estate.
Legal & General Group plc and a member of the Board of Directors operations in Europe since January 2003. He joined Glaxo in 1985
Non-Executive Director. Dr Barzach was formerly a Non-Executive He joined Glaxo in 1986 as Group Financial Controller and was
of Rohm and Haas Company and Cabot Corporation. and at GlaxoSmithKline was Senior Vice President, Asia Pacific,
Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc. She is a member of the appointed Group Finance Director in 1992.
until his current appointment.
International Cooperation High Council, Chairman of the Board Dr Lucy Shapiro (Aged 63)
Marc Dunoyer
of Equilibres et Populations and Director of the Board of Project Appointed on 23rd May 2000 Tachi Yamada
President
Hope. International consultant in health strategy, she was formerly Non-Executive Director. Dr Shapiro was formerly a Non-Executive Chairman
Pharmaceuticals Japan
French Minister of Health and Family. Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. She is Ludwig Professor of Research & Development
Mr Dunoyer was appointed President, Pharmaceuticals Japan in
Cancer Research in the Department of Developmental Biology Dr Yamada leads the Group’s complex business of drug discovery
Lawrence Culp (Aged 40) March 2003. He joined the Group in 1999 and was Senior Vice
and Director of the Beckman Center for Molecular and Genetic and development creating new medicines through research. He
Appointed on 1st July 2003 President and Regional Director, Japan until his current
Medicine at the Stanford University School of Medicine and a joined SmithKline Beecham in 1994 as a Non-Executive member of
Non-Executive Director. Mr Culp is President and Chief Executive appointment.
Non-Executive Director of Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. She holds the Board and became Chairman, R&D Pharmaceuticals in 1999.
Officer of Danaher Corporation. Prior to joining Danaher, he held
a PhD in molecular biology from Albert Einstein College of Russell Greig He was appointed to the Board of Directors on 1st January 2004.
positions in Accenture, previously Andersen Consulting.
Medicine. President
Jennie Younger
Crispin Davis (Aged 54) Pharmaceuticals International
Sir Robert Wilson (Aged 60) Senior Vice President
Appointed on 1st July 2003 Dr Greig leads the pharmaceutical operations outside the USA
Appointed on 1st November 2003 Corporate Communications & Community Partnerships
Non-Executive Director. Mr Davis is Chief Executive of Reed Elsevier and most of Europe, covering more than 100 countries. He joined
Non-Executive Director, Sir Robert is Non-Executive Chairman Mrs Younger is responsible for the Group’s internal and external
PLC. Prior to that, he was Chief Executive of Aegis Group plc, the Group in 1980 and was Senior Vice President, Worldwide
of BG Group plc and the Economist Group and was previously communications, its image and partnerships with global
which he joined from Guinness plc, where he was Group Business Development for R&D prior to his current appointment
Executive Chairman of Rio Tinto plc. communities. She joined Glaxo Wellcome in 1996 as Director of
Managing Director of United Distillers and a member of the main in March 2003.
Investor Relations.
board of Guinness plc. He spent his early career with Procter & Dr Tachi Yamada (Aged 58)
Dan Phelan
Gamble. Appointed on 1st January 2004 Jack Ziegler
Senior Vice President
Chairman, Research & Development. Dr Yamada was formerly a President
Sir Peter Job (Aged 62) Human Resources
Non-Executive Director, and subsequently an Executive Director, Consumer Healthcare
Appointed on 23rd May 2000 Mr Phelan is responsible for benefits, compensation, recruitment,
of SmithKline Beecham plc. Prior to joining SmithKline Beecham Mr Ziegler is head of the global Consumer Healthcare business,
Non-Executive Director. Sir Peter was formerly a Non-Executive organisation development, leadership development and succession
he was Chairman of the Department of Internal Medicine at the which produces oral healthcare, over-the-counter medicines and
Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc. He is a Non-Executive Director planning, human resource information systems and employee
University of Michigan Medical School and Physician-in-Chief of nutritional healthcare products. He joined SmithKline Beecham in
of Schroders plc, Shell Transport and Trading Company plc, TIBCO health management. He was a lawyer in private practice before
the University of Michigan Medical Center. He is a member of the 1991 and in 1998 was appointed President of the Consumer
Software Inc. and Instinet Group Inc. He is also a member of the joining Smith Kline & French in 1981 and in 1994 was appointed
Board of Directors of diaDexus, Inc. and is a Trustee of the Healthcare business.
Supervisory Boards of Deutsche Bank AG and Bertelsmann AG. Senior Vice President and Director, Human Resources, SmithKline
Rockefeller Brothers Fund.
Beecham. Other members
Other Directors Mr Pien left the Group on 31st March 2003 to pursue another role
Sir Roger Hurn, Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Mr Paul in the pharmaceutical industry. Mr Ingram continues to work part-
Allaire, Non-Executive Director, both retired from the Board on time as Vice Chairman of Pharmaceuticals, acting as a special
5th June 2003. advisor to the Group and attends CET meetings in that capacity.
Details of membership of the Board Committees may be found
on page 36.36 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance Corporate governance GlaxoSmithKline 37
Governance and policy The Board reviews the company’s internal controls and risk Audit Committee Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and Directors
management policies and approves its governance structure and The Audit Committee reviews the financial and internal reporting In 2003 the Board initiated a systematic approach to evaluation.
The Board and Executive code of ethics. The Board reviews and also approves major process, the system of internal control and management of risks The performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and
The Directors are listed under ‘The Board’ (page 34). financing, investment and contractual decisions in excess of and the external and internal audit process. The Committee also Directors was undertaken by the Chairman and implemented in
defined thresholds. In addition to these items, the Board evaluates proposes to shareholders the appointment of the external auditors collaboration with the Committee Chairmen and with the support
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of corporate
and monitors the performance of the Group as a whole. This and is directly responsible for their remuneration and oversight of of the Company Secretary.
governance and is ultimately accountable for the Group’s activities,
includes: their work. The Committee consists entirely of independent
strategy and financial performance. The evaluation was conducted by way of private discussion
Non-Executive Directors. It meets at least four times a year. The
• engaging at Board meetings with the CEO, the other Executive between the Chairman and each of the Directors. The Chairman
The Board comprises three Executive and eleven Non-Executive Report of the Audit Committee is given on page 40.
Directors and members of the CET as appropriate, on the was assisted in preparing and conducting the evaluation by an
Directors. Whilst the Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors
financial and operating performance of GlaxoSmithKline and external adviser, who conducted separate interviews with each of
to be independent in character and judgement in accordance with Remuneration Committee
external issues material to the Group’s prospects the Directors. This enabled Directors’ perspectives on the
the 1998 Code, it has determined that four Non-Executive The Remuneration Committee determines the terms of service and
Chairman’s performance to be fed back to the Chairman and the
Directors -the Chairman, Dr Barzach, Mr McHenry and Dr Shapiro • evaluating progress toward the achievement of the Group’s remuneration of the Executive Directors and members of the CET
full Board. Performance evaluations of Board Committees were
-should not be considered as ’independent’ under the 2003 Code. financial and business objectives and annual plans and, with the assistance of external independent advisors, it
conducted on behalf of the Chairman by the Chairmen of the
In the case of the Chairman and Mr McHenry this is due to their evaluates and makes recommendations to the Board on overall
• monitoring, through reports received directly or from various respective Board Committees.
length of service with GlaxoSmithKline and its predecessor executive remuneration policy. The Committee consists entirely of
committees, the key significant risks facing the Group.
companies and, in the case of Drs Barzach and Shapiro, due to independent Non-Executive Directors. It meets at least four times a
Corporate Executive Team
remuneration that they have received from the Group in other The Board has overall responsibility for succession planning for year and otherwise as necessary. Information on the remuneration
The CET assists the CEO in the executive management of the
capacities. These four Non-Executive Directors have resigned their the CEO position. The Board has given the CEO broad authority to of Directors is given in the Remuneration Report on pages 43 to
Group. The CET meets 11 times per year. The members and their
positions on the Board Committees where independence is operate the business of the Group and the CEO is accountable for, 58.
responsibilities are listed under ‘Corporate Executive Team’ (page
required under the 2003 Code. and reports to the Board on business performance.
35).
Nominations Committee
The Board considers that Mr McArthur, Dr Schmitz, Mr Culp, The Board met six times in 2003 and each Director attended every
The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size and
Mr Davis, Sir Peter Job, Sir Ian Prosser and Sir Robert Wilson are meeting held during their tenure. Dialogue with shareholders
composition of the Board and the appointment of members of
independent under the 2003 Code. The Board noted that
The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or the Board and the CET, and makes recommendations to the Board
Dr Schmitz and Mr McArthur are associated as Non-Executive Financial results are announced quarterly.
more of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal as appropriate. The Committee also monitors the planning of
Directors of other public companies, Rohm and Haas Company
and/or financial advice at the company’s expense. There is an succession to the Board and Senior Management. The Committee The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when
and Cabot Corporation, but did not consider the associations
agreed procedure to enable them to do so. consists entirely of Non-Executive Directors of whom a majority are its half-year and full-year results are announced. The CEO and CFO
to be of sufficient economic significance to compromise their
independent and meets at least once a year to consider succession give presentations on the final year end results to institutional
independence. The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and is available
planning and otherwise as necessary. The Report of the investors, analysts and the media in London and in New York. In
to individual Directors in respect of Board procedures. The
At the date of publication, a majority of the Board members, Nominations Committee is given on page 41. addition, there are teleconferences after the release of the first,
Company Secretary is Simon Bicknell who was appointed in May
excluding the Chairman, were independent Non-Executive second and third quarter results for institutional investors, analysts
2000. He is a barrister and joined the Group in 1984. He is
Directors, in accordance with the recommendations of the 2003 Financial Results Committee and the media. These presentations may also be accessed on the
secretary to all the Board Committees.
Code. The Financial Results Committee reviews and approves, on behalf company’s website.
of the Board, the Annual Report and Form 20-F, the Annual
Dr Barzach, Mr McArthur and Mr McHenry will be retiring from Board Committees The AGM takes place in London and formal notification is sent to
Review and the convening of the Annual General Meeting,
the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting (AGM) shareholders at least one month in advance. At the Meeting a
together with the preliminary and quarterly statements of trading
on 17th May 2004. Following their retirement (and assuming that The Board has established a number of Committees and provides business presentation is made to shareholders and all Directors able
results. Each Director is a member of the Committee and the
the other Directors seeking election or re-election at the AGM are sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties. to attend are available, formally during the Meeting, and informally
quorum for a meeting is any three members. To be quorate, each
elected or re-elected), the Board will comprise three Executive Current membership of these Committees is given in the table afterwards, for questions. Details of the 2004 AGM are set out in
meeting must include the Chairman or the Chairman of the Audit
Directors and eight Non-Executive Directors with a majority of the pb eolfo Bwoa.r d Committees is indicated in the following table: the section ‘Annual General Meeting’ (page 38).
Committee and the CEO or the CFO. The Committee meets as
Board, excluding the Chairman, being independent Non-Executive
Directors. ggoH reinraG ebmooC hcazraB pluC sivaD boJ ruhtrAcM yrneHcM ressorP ztimhcS oripahS nosliW adamaY necessary. To ensure that the Non-Executive Directors are aware of and understand the views of major shareholders about the company,
Sir Christopher Hogg is Non-Executive Chairman and Dr Garnier Corporate Responsibility Committee the Board has in place a process focusing on sector specific issues
Audit M M C M
is Chief Executive Officer (CEO). The Chairman leads the Board, Corporate Administration M M M M M M M M M M M M M M The Corporate Responsibility Committee (formerly the Corporate as well as general shareholder preferences. With respect to the
& Transactions
and represents the Board to the CEO and other CET members as Social Responsibility Committee) consists entirely of Non-Executive general perspectives of shareholders, each year the Non-Executive
Corporate Responsibility M M C M
necessary between Board meetings. The CEO manages the Group Financial Results M M M M M M M M M M M M M M Directors and provides a Board level forum for the regular review Directors receive an external review of shareholder opinion which,
and implements the strategy and policies adopted by the Board. Nominations C M M of external issues that have the potential for serious impact upon in 2003, was presented in May. In October 2003, the full Board
The Chairman and the chairmen of Board Committees, Remuneration M M M C M the Group’s business and reputation. The Committee is also received a presentation from a leading financial analyst specialising
communicate regularly with the CEO and other CET members. Key: C = Chairman M = Member responsible for annual governance oversight of the Group’s in the pharmaceutical sector.
The division of responsibilities between the role of Chairman and worldwide donations and community support. The Committee
The CEO and CFO maintain a dialogue with institutional
the CEO has been set out in writing, agreed by the Board and meets formally twice a year and has further meetings and
The following is a summary of the role and terms of reference of shareholders on performance, plans and objectives through a
appears in full on the company’s website. Sir Ian Prosser was consultations as required.
each Committee. The full terms of reference of each Committee programme of regular meetings. They both speak regularly at
appointed Senior Independent Director with effect from
can be obtained from the Company Secretary or the Corporate external conferences and presentations.
1st January 2004. Sir Roger Hurn was Senior Independent Director Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee
governance section of the company’s website.
from 1st January 2003 to 5th June 2003. The Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee reviews The Group’s Investor Relations department, with offices in London
and approves matters in connection with the administration of the and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for contact with investors
Board process Group’s business, and of certain corporate transactions. The throughout the year.
The Board has the authority, and is accountable to shareholders, Committee consists of the Directors, Corporate Executive Team
The company’s website gives access to current financial and
for ensuring that the company is appropriately managed and members and the Company Secretary. The Committee meets as
business information about the Group.
achieves the strategic objectives agreed by the Board. The Board necessary.
discharges those responsibilities by supervising overall budgetary
planning, treasury planning and business strategy.38 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance Corporate governance GlaxoSmithKline 39
Share buy-back programme Biographical details for each Director are given under ‘The In a number of risk areas, specific standards that meet or exceed Legal and intellectual property
In October 2002, following the completion of the £4 billion share Board’ (page 34). requirements of applicable law have been established. Specialist Product liability, intellectual property and antitrust litigation,
buy-back programme announced in 2001, the company audit and compliance groups (for example Corporate Environment, government investigations and related private litigation are
Dr Barzach, Mr McArthur and Mr McHenry will retire from the
announced plans for a further £4 billion share buy-back Health and Safety and Worldwide Regulatory Compliance) assist in significant potential risks to GlaxoSmithKline, and the Group is
Board at the conclusion of the AGM.
programme. The programme covers purchases by the company the dissemination, implementation and audit of these standards. involved in various legal and administrative proceedings in these
of shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasury Shares, in areas. The outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted
• Re-appointment of Auditors The internal control framework also relies on the Risk Oversight
accordance with the authority given by shareholders at the with any level of certainty.
Resolutions will be proposed to re-appoint and Compliance Council (ROCC), which reports to both the CET
company’s Annual General Meeting in 2003. In total £980 million
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors and to authorise the and the Audit Committee, as well as other business unit Risk There is also a potential risk that third parties may allege that the
was spent during 2003.
Audit Committee to determine their remuneration. Management and Compliance Boards (RMCB), to help identify risks marketing of the Group’s own products will infringe the intellectual
In May 2003 the company was authorised to purchase a and to provide guidance to the risk management and compliance property rights of those third parties.
maximum of 600 million shares (617 million shares in May 2002) • Special business initiatives at the corporate and business unit levels. The ROCC is
and 81 million shares were purchased for cancellation during 2003, The company will seek to renew its authority to: chaired by the Corporate Compliance Officer (CCO) and meets Finance
(see Note 27 to the Financial statements, ‘Share capital and share regularly to review and assess significant risks and mitigation plans There are potential risks and uncertainties surrounding the Group’s
• make donations to EU Political Organisations and incur
premium account’). The exact amount and timing of future directed against those risks. While the ROCC has oversight of the ability to forecast the future and thus to meet its financial targets.
EU Political Expenditure
purchases will be determined by the company and is dependent risks deemed significant to the Group, each RMCB oversees risks The Group invests in new products and ventures based on
• give the Directors authority to dis-apply pre-emption rights
on market conditions and other factors. important to its business or function, thus increasing the active assumptions about their success which may prove to be inaccurate.
when allotting new shares in connection with rights issues
management of risks across the Group. The Corporate Ethics and There are also potential risks around the Group’s treasury
or otherwise up to a maximum of five per cent of the
Donations to Political Organisations and EU Political Compliance Department (CEC), is responsible for supporting the operations including tax liabilities, transfer pricing, and the
current issued share capital
Expenditure development and implementation of practices that facilitate possibility of trading losses and counterparty fraud. Compliance
• obtain authority to purchase its own Ordinary Shares up to
At the AGM in May 2001, 2002, and 2003 shareholders employees’ compliance with laws and Group policy. The CCO, with evolving financial disclosures and other legal reporting
a maximum of just under ten per cent of the current issued
authorised the company to make donations to EU Political who also manages the CEC, assists in the coordination of the risk requirements constitute risks including the appropriateness and
share capital.
Organisations and to incur EU Political Expenditure, under the management activities among the various compliance and audit effectiveness of controls in place to support financial statement
provisions of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act functions across the Group. reporting. The Group’s pension liabilities represent a further area
Internal control framework
2000, of up to £100,000 each year. Although the company does of potential risk, which are discussed in Note 33 to the Financial
For details of risks affecting the Group, see Note 30 to the
not and has not intended to make donations to political parties, statements, ‘Employee costs’.
The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and Financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’ and ‘Risk factors’ on
within the normal meaning of that expression, the definition in
understandable assessment of the Group’s position and prospects. pages 74 to 76. Areas of potentially significant risk that are subject
the legislation of ’EU Political Organisation’ can extend to bodies Manufacturing
The structure of accountability and audit operated in to regular reporting to and by the ROCC include the following.
including those concerned with policy review, law reform, the Maintaining supply of key GlaxoSmithKline products is a potentially
GlaxoSmithKline is as follows.
representation of the business community and special interest significant risk. The Group’s policy is to take reasonable measures
Human resources
groups such as those concerned with the environment in which The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the to ensure uninterrupted supply of product, including
The legal requirements regarding discrimination and harassment,
the company and its subsidiaries might wish to support. The adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the manufacturing in accordance with applicable laws and regulations
the integrity of the workforce, including pre-employment
Group made donations to non-EU Political Organisations totalling company, including financial, operational and compliance controls as well as with corporate standards that may exceed such
screening, and the control and use of contractors and temporary
£353,000 during 2003. No donations were made to EU Political and risk management. The Board has delegated responsibility for requirements. The Group takes efforts to minimise the single
staff are risks inherent in a Group with over 100,000 employees.
Organisations. such review to the Audit Committee which receives reports from sourcing of key products. Rationalising the supply chain and
those individuals identified in the Committee’s Report on page 40. balancing manufacturing capacity present other risks that could
Research and development
Annual General Meeting It is the responsibility of management through the CET to potentially disrupt the supply of important products.
Safety of marketed products is a potentially significant risk and a
implement Board policies on risk and control. The CET is
matter of great concern to GlaxoSmithKline, as is the conduct of
The AGM will be held at 2.30pm on Monday, 17th May 2004 at responsible for identifying, approving and enforcing key policies Information technology
laboratory practices and clinical practices trials in R&D. These must
The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, that go to the heart of how the Group conducts business. The Protecting information technology assets is an increasing risk as
be in accordance with applicable laws and regulations as well as
Westminster, London SW1P 3EE. The business to be transacted at internal control framework includes central direction, resource businesses extend networks, systems and data to third parties,
with corporate standards that may exceed such requirements. All
the meeting will include: allocation, and risk management of the key activities of research and as dependency on the internet for communications increases.
pharmaceutical products bring with them benefits and risks,
and development, manufacturing, marketing and sales, legal, Ensuring proper systems validation and electronic records and
including potential side effects. Pre-clinical and clinical trials are
• Receiving and adopting GlaxoSmithKline's 2003 Annual human resources, information systems, and financial practice. signatures are key regulatory issues and matters of potential risk
conducted during the development of potential products to
Report As part of this framework, there is a comprehensive planning for the Group. Web systems accessible to the public must comply
determine the safety and efficacy of products for use by humans
system with an annual budget approved by the Board. The results with legal and regulatory requirements and represent potential
following approval by regulatory bodies. In spite of these efforts,
• Approving the 2003 Remuneration Report of operating units are reported monthly and compared to the risks. Other potential risks include use of personally identifiable
when drugs are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated
The Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 58 sets out the budget. Forecasts are prepared regularly during the year. information, electronic record retention, outsourced business
side effects may become evident. The Group views the use of
remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and applications, and susceptibility to viruses and outside incursions.
Extensive financial controls, procedures, self-assessment exercises animals and human tissue in the testing required to develop new
disclosures on Directors’ remuneration including those required With much of the Group’s business dependent upon electronic
and risk mitigation activities are reviewed by the Group’s internal products as another risk.
by the Companies Act 1985 and the Directors’ Remuneration means, disaster recovery also poses a potential risk.
auditors. Commercial and financial responsibility, however, is
Report Regulations 2002. A resolution will be proposed to
clearly delegated to local business units, supported by a regional Marketing and sales
approve the Remuneration Report. Security, environment and safety
management structure. These principles are designed to provide The Group operates globally in complex legal and regulatory
Threats to the security and well being of the Group’s employees,
an environment of central leadership coupled with local operating environments that often vary among jurisdictions. The Group’s
• Retirement, election and re-election of Directors property and the environment present significant risks for which
autonomy as the framework for the exercise of accountability and policy is to conduct marketing in accordance with applicable laws
Mr Lawrence Culp, Mr Crispin Davis, Sir Robert Wilson and appropriate safeguards and precautions are continually reviewed
control within the Group. and regulations as well as with corporate standards that may
Dr Tachi Yamada, each of whom were appointed Directors since and upgraded. Employee injury, ill health due to occupational
exceed such requirements. Any failure to observe applicable
the last AGM, will offer themselves for election to the Board. The Group also attaches importance to clear principles and conditions and plant management and the potential impact of
marketing codes, rules regarding government pricing, management
procedures designed to achieve appropriate accountability and plants on the environment are potential risks the Group addresses
Sir Christopher Hogg will retire and offer himself for re-election of samples, and legal restrictions on sale and marketing practices
control. A corporate policy, ‘Risk Management and Legal through a process that sets targets and provides guidance on
to the Board under article 93 of the company’s Articles of may create significant risks to the commercial sectors and the
Compliance’, mandates that business units establish processes how results may be achieved.
Association. Group. Failure to comply may result in legal proceedings.
for managing risks significant to their businesses and the Group.40 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance Corporate governance GlaxoSmithKline 41
Effectiveness of controls Dr Schmitz has also been a member of the Executive Board of The Committee has primary responsibility for making a The Committee met once during 2003 in full session and once
The Audit Committee receives regular reports on these areas of Directors of Deutsche Bank AG. He retired from that Board in recommendation to shareholders on the appointment, on a quorate basis. All members were present at the full meeting.
significant risk to the Group and on related internal controls. 2000 having been in charge of investment banking. Dr Schmitz reappointment and removal of the external auditors by annually
Following consideration of these reports, the Committee reports was formerly a member of the Executive Board of Directors of assessing the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence Remuneration Report
annually to the Board on the effectiveness of controls. Such BASF from 1980 to 1990, including CFO from 1985 to 1990. He of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process. The Remuneration Report can be found on pages 43 to 58.
controls may mitigate but cannot eliminate risks. In addition, holds an MBA from Insead. Sir Peter Job was CEO of Reuters plc
In making its assessment, the Committee considers papers which
there are areas of the Group’s business where it is necessary to from 1991 to 2001 and brings considerable industrial experience The Combined Code
detail the relevant regulatory requirements required of external
take risks to achieve a satisfactory return for shareholders, such to his role as a member of the Committee. Sir Ian Prosser was
auditors and evaluates reports from the external auditors on their
as investment in acquiring new products or businesses. In these CFO and later CEO of Six Continents PLC and is a member of the Throughout 2003 the company complied with the code provisions
stated compliance with the requirements. Where the external
cases it is the company’s objective to apply its expertise in the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. of the 1998 Combined Code except as follows:
auditors provide non-audit services, the Committee ensures that
prudent management rather than elimination of risk. The Directors’ Sir Robert Wilson began his professional career as an economist.
auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded by a policy • A.2.1 – The Board should appoint one of the independent
review relates to the company and its subsidiaries and does not He held senior management positions at Rio Tinto plc culminating
requiring pre-approval by the Audit Committee for such services. Non-Executive Directors to be the Senior Independent Director.
extend to material associated undertakings, joint ventures or other in his appointment as Executive Chairman.
Expenditure on audit and non-audit services is set out on Sir Roger Hurn was Senior Independent Director from
investments.
The Committee is supported by the Company Secretary, who page 102. 1st January 2003 until 5th June 2003. For the remainder of
Having considered the Audit Committee report on the effectiveness attends the Committee’s meetings, and it has available to it the year all Non-Executive Directors remained available to
The guidelines set out in the company’s policy on engaging the
of controls, the Board believes that the system of internal controls financial resources to take independent professional advice when shareholders to raise concerns which could not be addressed
external auditors to provide non-audit services, include ascertaining
provides reasonable although not absolute assurance against considered necessary. Meetings of the Committee are attended by through the Chairman, CEO or CFO. In December 2003,
that: the skills and experience of the external auditors make them
material misstatement or loss. The process accords with the the Chairman, CEO, CFO, General Counsel, Head of Global following the Nominations Committee review of the Board’s
a suitable supplier of the non-audit services; adequate safeguards
guidance on internal control issued by the Turnbull Committee in Internal Audit (GIA), CCO and the external auditors. structure and composition, the Board announced the
are in place so that the objectivity and independence of the audit
1999. appointment of Sir Ian Prosser as Senior Independent Director,
In 2003 the Committee worked to a structured programme of are not compromised; the fee levels relative to the annual audit
with effect from 1st January 2004
activities, with agenda matters focused to coincide with key events fee are within the limits set by the Committee; and the criteria
Committee reports
of the annual financial reporting cycle, together with standing which govern the compensation of individuals performing the • B.1.6 – In schemes of performance related remuneration,
items that the Committee is required to consider at each meeting: annual audit are appropriate. neither annual bonuses nor benefits in kind should be
Audit Committee Report
pensionable. Pension contributions are not solely determined
The Audit Committee’s role flows directly from the Board’s • the external auditors reported to the Committee on all critical The company also has well-established policies, including a Code
on the basis of basic salary. The company’s position is described
oversight function and it is authorised by the Board to investigate accounting policies and practices used by the company, of Ethics, which is available on the website, and a help-line facility
in the Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 58
any activity within its terms of reference. The Committee has alternative accounting treatments which had been discussed for the reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct.
written terms of reference which have been approved by the with management and the resultant conclusion by the external • B.1.7 – Notice or contract periods for service contracts to be
The Committee met in full session four times in 2003 and four
Board. The Committee reports regularly to the Board on the auditors, material written communications with management one year or less. The company’s position is described in the
times on a quorate basis. Each full session was attended by all
performance of the activities it has been assigned. The and any restrictions on access to information Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 58
members.
Committee’s main responsibilities include reviewing the corporate
• the CFO reported on the financial performance of the company • B.1.9 – Compensation commitments in the event of early
accounting and financial reporting process, monitoring the
and on technical financial and accounting matters Nominations Committee Report termination of a director’s contract. The company’s position
integrity of the company’s financial statements, evaluating the
The Nominations Committee’s terms of reference include in respect of Mr Coombe’s previous contract is described in
system of internal control and the management of risks, and • the General Counsel reported on material litigation
responsibility for proposing the appointment of Board and the Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 58.
overseeing compliance with laws, regulations and ethical codes
• the Company Secretary reported on corporate governance Committee members. During 2003 three new Non-Executive
of practice. The Committee’s oversight role requires it to address The company is required to comply with the 2003 Combined
Directors and one Executive Director were appointed.
regularly the relationships between management and the internal • the Head of GIA reported on the effectiveness of the system of Code from 1st January 2004 and report on compliance in its
and external auditors, and understand and monitor the reporting internal controls and the steps taken to improve the company’s In the case of the Non-Executive Directors the Committee 2004 Annual Report which will be issued in 2005. In this regard
relationships and tiers of accountability between these parties. risk management framework considered the particular skills, knowledge and experience that the measures described below have been implemented:
would benefit the Board most significantly for each appointment.
The Committee is entirely composed of independent Non-Executive • the CCO reported on the activities undertaken by the ROCC • A.1.1 and A.6.1 – The Annual Report contains a statement of
The broad selection criteria focused on achieving a balance
Directors. Sir Christopher Hogg resigned as a member of the how the Board operates and the decisions taken by it and
• the Company Secretary is the Chairman of the Disclosure between the representation of UK and US markets, and having
Committee with effect from 1st January 2004 and Sir Robert those which are delegated to management, and the manner
Committee and reported on matters that affect the quality and individuals with CEO experience and skills developed in various
Wilson was appointed in his place from that date. in which the performance of the Board, its committees and
timely disclosure of financial and other material information to sectors. The Board engaged a professional search agency
individual directors are evaluated
Committee members bring considerable financial and accounting the Board, to the public markets and to shareholders. This specialising in the recruitment of high calibre Non-Executive
experience to the Committee’s work. Members have past enabled the Committee to review the clarity and completeness Directors. A dossier of potential Non-Executive appointees was • A.2.1 – The Board has also recorded the division of
employment experience in either finance or accounting roles or of the disclosures in the published annual financial statements, provided to the Committee and candidates were short-listed for responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO
comparable experience in corporate activities. interim reports, quarterly and preliminary results interview after considering their relevant qualifications. The new
• A.3.1 – The company has determined the independence of
announcements and other formal announcements relating to Non-Executive Directors were selected and appointed and will offer
The Board has determined that the combined qualifications and its Non-Executive Directors and stated reasons for their
financial performance prior to their release by the Board. themselves for election at the company’s 2004 AGM. Their
experience of the Committee members, when taken together with independence notwithstanding the existence of relationships
appointments were announced publicly.
its modus operandi, gives the Committee collectively the financial The Audit Committee, management, internal audit and the full or circumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to
expertise necessary to discharge its responsibilities. Accordingly the Board all work together to ensure the quality of the company’s A customised induction process was conducted for each of the affect their independence
Board has chosen not to nominate any one committee member corporate accounting and financial reporting. The Committee new Non-Executive Directors focusing on their particular
• A.3.3 – The Board appointed with effect from 1st January 2004
as having recent and relevant financial experience. serves as the primary link between the Board and the external experience and taking account of their different backgrounds.
one of the independent Non-Executive Directors as a senior
and internal auditors. This facilitates the necessary independence This process included meeting key members of the CET and,
In arriving at its conclusion the Board considered the following independent director
from management and encourages the external and internal other key executives and, in some cases, visiting particular
points. Dr Ronaldo Schmitz has been the Chairman of the
auditors to communicate freely and regularly with the Committee. operational facilities of the Group. • A.4.6, B.1.4 and C.3.3 – The Annual Report contains the
Committee since April 2001. Prior to his appointment as a
In 2003, the Committee met both collectively and separately with required statements on the work of the Nominations,
Non-Executive Director of the company he was a Non-Executive The Committee also recommended that the Board consider
the external auditors and the Head of GIA. Remuneration and Audit Committees
Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc where he served on the Audit appointing Dr Tachi Yamada, the executive responsible for
Committee. pharmaceutical R&D within the Group, as an Executive Director. • A.5.1 – New directors received a full, formal and tailored
Dr Yamada was subsequently appointed to the Board with customised induction on joining the Board
effect from 1st January 2004.42 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance GlaxoSmithKline 43
Remuneration Report
• B.2.1, C.3.1 and A.4.1 – The composition and positions held For accounting periods ending after 15th April 2005, Sarbanes-
by the members of each of the Remuneration, Audit and Oxley requires that the company’s Annual Report contain a report
Nominations Committees now comply with the 2003 Combined stating the responsibility of management for establishing and
Code. Each of the Committees have also amended their terms maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting
of reference to comply with the requirements of the 2003 and assessing the effectiveness of the company’s internal control
Combined Code which are available to shareholders on the over financial reporting. Although the company is not required
The Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policies
company’s website to report compliance in its 2003 Annual Report, the management
operated by GlaxoSmithKline in respect of the Directors and
has undertaken a process to ensure that it will be in a position
• C.3.4, C.3.5 and C.3.7 – The Audit Committee has complied Corporate Executive Team (CET) members, together with
to report compliance by the due date.
with the requirements for: reviewing the arrangements under disclosures on Directors’ remuneration including those required
which staff of the company raise, in confidence, concerns Sarbanes-Oxley introduced a requirement for the CEO and the by The Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 (the
about improprieties in matters of financial reporting; the CFO to complete formal certifications, confirming that: Regulations). In accordance with the Regulations, the following
monitoring and reviewing of the effectiveness of internal audit sections of the Remuneration Report are subject to audit: Annual
• they have reviewed the Annual Report and Form 20-F
activities; and the provision of non-audit services by the remuneration; Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration; Share
company’s external auditors. • it contains no material misstatements or omissions options; Incentive plans and Pensions. The remaining sections are
not subject to audit, neither are the pages referred to from within
• the Financial statements and other financial information fairly
US law and regulation the auditable sections.
presents, in all material aspects, the financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows for the period covered by the This Report is submitted to shareholders by the Board for approval
A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to
Annual Report at the Annual General Meeting, as referenced in the Chairman’s
GlaxoSmithKline because the company’s shares are quoted on
letter and notice of Annual General Meeting, which has been sent
the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in the form of ADSs. • they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
to all shareholders.
controls and procedures that ensure that material information is
NYSE rules made known to them, evaluating the effectiveness of these Throughout the Remuneration Report the Executive Directors and
The NYSE rules permit the company to follow home country, UK controls and procedures as at the year-end, the results of such CET members are referred to as the ‘Executives’.
corporate governance practices instead of those that apply in the evaluation being contained in the Annual Report, and disclosing
References to GlaxoSmithKline shares and ADSs mean, respectively,
USA provided that the company explains any significant variations. in the Annual Report any changes in such controls that have, or
Ordinary Shares of GlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p and American
This explanation is provided on the company’s website. are reasonably likely to have, a material effect on such controls
Depositary Shares of GlaxoSmithKline plc. Each ADS represents
• they have disclosed to the external auditors and the Audit two GlaxoSmithKline shares.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002
Committee all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses
Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the
in the design or operation of internal control over financial 44 Introduction
USA, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 (Sarbanes-
reporting and any fraud (regardless of materiality) involving 45 Remuneration policy
Oxley). Sarbanes-Oxley established new or enhanced standards
persons that have a significant role in the company’s internal 48 Executive Director terms, conditions and remuneration
for corporate accountability in the USA. Although the company’s
control over financial reporting 50 Non-Executive Directors terms, conditions and fees
corporate governance structure was believed to be robust and in
51 Directors and Senior Management Remuneration
line with best practice, certain changes were necessary to ensure • they have indicated in the Annual Report whether there
52 Annual Remuneration
compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley. were any significant changes in internal control over
53 Non-Executive Directors’ Remuneration
financial reporting.
As recommended by the Securities and Exchange Commission 54 Directors’ interests
(SEC), GlaxoSmithKline established a Disclosure Committee. The The CEO and CFO have completed these certifications which will 55 Share options
Committee reports to the CEO, the CFO and to the Audit be filed with the SEC as part of the Group’s Form 20-F. 56 Incentive plans
Committee. It is chaired by the Company Secretary and the 57 Pensions
members consist of senior managers from finance, legal, Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures 58 Directors and Senior Management
compliance, corporate communications and investor relations. The Group carried out an evaluation under the supervision and 58 Directors’ interests in contracts
with the participation of the Group’s management, including the
External legal counsel and the external auditors are invited to
CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of
attend its meetings. It has responsibility for considering the
the Group’s disclosure controls and procedures. There are inherent
materiality of information and on a timely basis, determining the
limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls
disclosure and treatment of that information. It also has
and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the
responsibility for the timely filing of reports with the SEC and the
circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures.
formal review of the Annual Report and Form 20-F. In 2003 the
Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can
Committee met eight times.
only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control
Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Annual Report contains a objectives. Based upon the Group’s evaluation, the CEO and CFO
statement as to whether a member of the company’s Audit have concluded that as at 31st December 2003 the disclosure
Committee is an audit committee financial expert. controls and procedures are effective to provide reasonable
asurance that information required to be disclosed in the reports
The Board has reviewed the qualifications and backgrounds of the
the Group files and submits under the US Securities Exchange Act
members of the Audit Committee and determined that, although
of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarised and
no one member of the Company’s Audit Committee is an audit
reported as and when required.
committee financial expert, the combined qualifications and
experience of the Audit Committee members, when taken
Significant changes in internal control over financial
together with its modus operandi, give the Audit Committee
reporting
collectively the financial expertise necessary to discharge its
There have been no changes in the Group’s internal control over
responsibilities. For an explanation of the basis for the Board’s
financial reporting during the year that have materially affected or
judgement, refer to page 40.
are reasonably likely to affect materially the Group’s internal control
over financial reporting.44 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration Report Remuneration Report GlaxoSmithKline 45
Remuneration Report
Introduction The Committee met 12 times during 2003 with each member Remuneration policy Pay and performance comparators
attending as follows: The following table sets out the companies used for pay and
The Remuneration Committee (or ‘Committee’) is responsible for Principles performance comparison:
making recommendations to the Board on the company’s Number of meetings Number of meetings The Committee considered the findings and established three core Market Cap
held whilst a attended by 31.12.03
remuneration policy and, within the terms of the agreed policy, Name Committee member Committee member principles which underpin the new remuneration policy for Company Country £m
determining the total individual remuneration packages of the Mr J McArthur 12 12 GlaxoSmithKline. These are: Abbott Laboratories USA 40,700
Executives. (Chairman from 5th June 2003) • pay for performance and only for performance AstraZeneca UK 45,465
During 2003 the Committee reviewed and developed the Mr P Allaire 2 2 • robust and transparent governance structures Aventis France 29,593
remuneration policy to align Executive remuneration with the (Chairman until 5th June 2003) • a commitment to be a leader of good remuneration practice in Bristol-Myers Squibb USA 30,985
interests of shareholders whilst meeting the imperative of recruiting Dr M Barzach 12 10 the pharmaceutical industry. Eli Lilly USA 44,119
and retaining the executive talent essential to the leadership of Mr C Davis 10 10 GlaxoSmithKline UK 76,153
the company. Sir Roger Hurn 2 2 In formulating the policy, the Committee also decided that: Johnson & Johnson USA 85,661
Sir Peter Job 11 11 • the remuneration structure must support the business by Merck USA 57,427
The remuneration policy set out in this report was finalised after Mr D McHenry 12 12 securing, retaining and motivating key talent in a very Novartis Switzerland 68,457
undertaking an extensive consultation process with shareholders Pfizer USA 150,627
competitive market place
and institutional bodies during the course of 2003. During the Two quorate meetings were held to effect the formal grant of Roche Holdings Switzerland 39,658
• UK shareholder guidelines would be followed to the maximum
year the Chairman of GlaxoSmithKline and the Chairman of the share options and performance share awards to give effect to the Sanofi-Synthelabo France 30,811
extent consistent with the needs of the business and the
Committee met shareholders, representing nearly half of Committee’s decisions. Schering-Plough USA 14,276
company would maintain a regular dialogue with shareholders
GlaxoSmithKline’s share capital, to ensure that the Committee Takeda Chemical Industries Japan 19,684
With the exception of the Company Secretary, no employees of • global pharmaceutical companies are the primary pay
obtained a clear understanding of shareholder expectations and Wyeth USA 31,584
the company were involved in the conduct of Committee comparator group
to communicate the competitive issues facing the company.
meetings. Dr Garnier (CEO) and the Senior Vice President, Human • performance conditions would be based on the measurable
Benchmarking
The Committee has derived very considerable benefits from this Resources, were invited to attend part of some meetings of the delivery of strong financial performance and the delivery of
For benchmarking purposes total remuneration incorporates base
process of consultation and as a result has instigated a major shift Committee as required. superior returns to shareholders as compared with other
salary, annual bonus and long-term incentives. When setting pay
in the way GlaxoSmithKline sets the remuneration of its most pharmaceutical companies
Towers Perrin, a leading firm of remuneration and benefit the Committee has due regard to the Executives’ pension
senior executives. • a high proportion of the total remuneration opportunity would
consultants, provides strategic advice to GlaxoSmithKline on arrangements.
be based on performance-related remuneration which will be
The revised remuneration policy is designed to establish a general remuneration and benefit planning and also provides
delivered over the medium to long-term The global pharmaceutical industry will continue to be used as the
framework for remuneration which is consistent with the market data. Towers Perrin were appointed by the Committee
• remuneration would be determined using the projected value primary pay comparator for the Executives as it is the appropriate
company’s scale and scope of operations and meets the under a separate mandate, to advise on the remuneration of
method (see explanation below) marketplace for the company’s most senior executive talent. In
recruitment needs of the business and is closely aligned with UK senior executive management.
• one remuneration structure for Executive Directors and the the first instance, pay is benchmarked to publicly available
shareholders guidelines. As at 31st December 2003, the company
CET, in particular, the same performance conditions will apply remuneration data for these companies.
was the second largest pharmaceutical company in the world by 2003 Independent review of executive remuneration
equally to their long-term incentive awards
revenue, with operations in five continents covering over 100 As indicated in the 2002 Remuneration Report, the Committee To provide context to the above information, reference is made
• no ex-gratia payments would be made
countries and with around 50 per cent of sales being generated appointed Deloitte & Touche LLP (Deloitte) to conduct a to the Towers Perrin annual global pharmaceutical pay survey for
• pay structures would be as simple as is consistent with the
in the USA. comprehensive review of the remuneration of the Executives of the Pharmaceutical Human Resources Association (PHRA). To
business needs.
GlaxoSmithKline. Deloitte reported exclusively to the Committee ensure that the global pharmaceutical industry benchmark is
Remuneration Committee and the Chairman of the company. Overall the policy is intended to provide median total remuneration subject to scrutiny and review, the Committee will also consider
The composition of the Committee changed during the year. for median performance. Poor performance will result in total pay data from other global businesses primarily in the consumer
Deloitte provided other consulting services to GlaxoSmithKline
The early part of 2003 saw the departure of Mr Allaire and remuneration significantly below the pay comparator group and the manufacturing sectors.
during the year, but did not provide advice on Executive
Sir Roger Hurn. Mr McArthur was appointed interim Chairman median, with the opportunity to earn upper quartile total
remuneration matters other than to the Committee. Prior to determining the annual long-term incentive opportunity,
of the Committee and led the Committee in the conduct of the remuneration for exceptional performance.
the Committee considers a range of vesting levels that may be
policy review. The other members of the Committee were Deloitte reviewed all aspects of the remuneration policy, each
This strong alignment with performance is demonstrably in the achieved based on different assumptions such as share price
Dr Barzach, Mr Davis (appointed on 1st July 2003), Sir Peter Job element of remuneration, the performance measures used and
interests of shareholders and provides the Executives with growth, performance levels etc. For performance in line with
(appointed on 5th June 2003) and Mr McHenry. Pending the the terms and conditions of the Executives’ contracts. Their review
unambiguous signals about the importance of delivering success expectations, total remuneration is targeted at the median of the
embodiment of the Higgs Report in the 2003 Combined Code, also included consideration of the relevant comparator companies
to the company’s shareholders. comparator group and the long-term incentive opportunity is set
the Board deemed all of the members of the Committee to be for performance measurement and pay benchmarking for the
in a way which provides for positioning of total remuneration at
independent Non-Executive Directors. most senior roles.
Commitment the median.
As a consequence of the revised definition of independence as set Deloitte’s independent review produced the following key findings: The Committee will apply this policy on a consistent and
To ensure that a stable benchmark is developed and to reduce the
out under the 2003 Combined Code, Dr Barzach and Mr McHenry transparent basis. Any significant changes in the measures used
• the link between pay and performance needed strengthening impact of short-term fluctuations, incentive policies for other global
retired from the Committee on 1st January 2004. The implications to assess performance will be discussed with shareholders. In the
• the potential for payment for failure needed addressing pharmaceutical companies are assessed over a number of years.
of the 2003 Combined Code are set out under the Corporate use of comparators for pay benchmarking, the Committee will
• stronger alignment to UK best practice and shareholder
Governance section on page 41. use its discretion to ensure that remuneration levels are reasonable,
guidelines was needed Valuation method
and if it believes that changes may cause concern amongst
Sir Robert Wilson and Mr Culp were appointed as members of • other global pharmaceutical companies are the primary market The projected value method will be used to benchmark total
shareholders, the position will be discussed with shareholders
the Committee from 1st January 2004. Mr McArthur is to retire for talent remuneration. This method projects the future value of the
prior to implementation.
from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting • the long-term incentive opportunity was uncompetitive. remuneration package under different performance scenarios.
on 17th May 2004 and his role as Chairman of the Committee
It represents a major change to the method hitherto applied for
will be assumed by Sir Robert Wilson from that date.
pay comparison, which had been based solely on estimated present
value using a mathematical model. The Committee believes that
the new approach will moderate the impact of market fluctuations
in the short term and greatly strengthen the focus on performance.46 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration Report Remuneration Report GlaxoSmithKline 47
Individual elements of remuneration Long-term incentives TSR will be measured in sterling over the performance period and When setting EPS targets the Committee will consider the
The balance between the fixed (base salary) and variable (annual Executives are eligible for performance share awards and share is the change in the value of a share together with the value of company’s internal projections and analysts’ forecasts for
bonus and long-term incentive) elements of remuneration changes options. The remuneration policy provides that annual long-term reinvested dividends paid. In order to remove the impact of the GlaxoSmithKline’s EPS performance as well as analysts’ forecasts
with performance. The chart below shows the normal range of incentive awards will normally be made up of a performance share varying tax treatments of dividends in different jurisdictions, all for the pharmaceutical industry.
variability for the CEO, Dr Garnier, and the CFO, Mr Coombe. award and a share option award. The new remuneration policy dividends will be reinvested gross.
The Committee agreed the following key principles to govern the
increases the emphasis on the use of performance shares.
If GlaxoSmithKline is ranked at the median of the performance use of EPS as a performance measure:
CEO 5%-35% 10%-25% 40%-85%
CFO 10%-50% 20%-25% 25%-70% The Committee considers that performance shares provide a comparator group, 35 per cent of the shares will vest. Only if
• adjustments will only be considered for major items
100% stronger alignment to shareholder value and therefore, the new GlaxoSmithKline is one of the top two companies will all of the
• adjustments will be for the judgement of the Committee
remuneration policy increases the emphasis on the use of shares vest. When determining vesting levels, the Committee will
• the purpose of the adjustments is to ensure that the
performance shares. Long-term incentive awards are determined have regard for the company’s underlying financial performance.
performance measurement is fair and reasonable to both
such that for on target performance more than half of the
participants and shareholders
Base salary Annual bonus Long-term incentives long-term incentive reward is derived from performance shares. TSR rank with 14 companies & Percentage of
• any discretion exercised by the Committee will be disclosed to
GlaxoSmithKline award vesting*
The grant of annual awards using more than one plan is consistent shareholders in the Annual Report.
Base salary with the practice of the pay comparator group and other leading 1 100%
The Committee will set out the basis of its decision if it considers
Base salaries will be set by reference to the median for the relevant UK companies. Long-term incentives for the CET will be on the 2 100%
it appropriate to make any adjustment.
market. For Executives this is the pharmaceutical pay comparator same basis as that for the Executive Directors. From 2003, in a 3 90%
group. Actual salary levels are reviewed annually and may vary departure from the previous policy, share options granted to CET 4 80% Prior to 2003 only those share options granted to Executive
depending on an Executive’s experience, responsibility and market members are subject to the same performance conditions as are 5 70% Directors were subject to a performanc e condition. In order for
value. Any changes usually take effect from 1st April. No increase applied to share options granted to the Executive Directors. This 6 60% the options to vest in full, business per formance EPS growth,
arose out of the independent review. provides a closer alignment to UK best practice and represents a 7 50% excluding currency and exceptional ite ms, had on average to be
major step change in the global pharmaceutical pay practice, Median 35% at least three percentage points per annum more than the increase
Annual bonus which typically does not apply performance conditions to the Below median 0% in the UK Retail Prices Index over any three-year performance
All bonuses are determined on the basis of a formal review of vesting of options. period.
* TSR is measured on a pro-rata basis. Where GlaxoSmithKline’s
annual performance against stretching financial targets based on
As part of the review process, the Committee considered what performance falls between two of the comparators, the level of vesting For the 2003 grant, vesting increases on a straight line basis for
business performance profit before interest and tax and are subject
performance conditions should be applied to the long-term will be determined by the actual relative level of TSR rather than simple EPS performance between the hurdles set out in the table below.
to detailed assessment of individual, business unit and group incentives. The Committee concluded that it was appropriate to ranking.
achievements against objectives. No bonus is payable if financial Annualised Percentage of
measure performance using a combination of absolute financial
performance is less than 96 per cent of the target performance. To provide a closer link between shareholder returns and payments growth in EPS award vesting
results (based on Earnings per Share -EPS) and the delivery of
Bonuses are subject to upper limits, which for the Executives other superior value to shareholders (based on Total Shareholder to the Executives, from 2003, notional dividends will be reinvested > RPI + 5% 100%
than the CEO range between 100 per cent and 200 per cent of Return -TSR). and paid out in proportion to the vesting of the award. The receipt RPI + 4% 75%
base salary. The CEO’s limit is 200 per cent. of dividends has been incorporated into the benchmarking of RPI + 3% 50%
An annual bonus paid on the basis of on target business The Committee concluded that EPS was the key measure of award levels. In addition, from 2003, performance shares earned < RPI + 3% 0%
performance of the business and was also fully reflected through by the Executives cannot be sold, except to meet related tax
performance together with base salary provides annual cash in
the business measures extended throughout the Group, ensuring liabilities, for a further two years following the end of the vesting This performance condition is substantially consistent with UK
line with the median of the pay comparator group.
organisational alignment. period. The Committee believes that this further aligns the interests shareholder guidelines and expectations and is considerably
In the case of the CEO, the bonus targets are set by the of the Executives with the long-term interests of shareholders. more demanding than any operated by other global
Comparative performance was previously measured by reference
Committee. Following the end of the financial year, the Committee pharmaceutical companies. This change is consistent with the
to the FTSE 100 but the Committee concluded that the Prior to 2003, performance share awards were in two parts: half
reviews the CEO’s performance and determines the bonus payable. new policy of providing pay for performance and only for
measurement of performance against the performance comparator could be earned by reference to GlaxoSmithKline's TSR
The CEO makes recommendations to the Committee regarding performance.
group of pharmaceutical companies (see page 45) would provide a performance compared to the FTSE 100, of which the company is
the performance level achieved against objectives for the other
better assessment of the company’s performance. TSR was chosen a constituent, and the other half of the award was deliverable if For the Executives, from 2003 onwards, performance will be
Executives. These recommendations are then considered by the
as the most appropriate comparative measure since it focuses on the company’s business performance EPS growth, excluding measured over the three financial years following the grant of
Committee to determine the resultant bonus.
the return to shareholders, is a well understood and tested currency and exceptional items, was on average at least three an option. The Committee has decided for the 2003 grant that
Executives can also choose to invest their bonus in GlaxoSmithKline mechanism to measure performance, and allows comparison percentage points per annum more than the increase in the UK if the performance condition is not met in full after the three year
shares for a minimum of three years under the Annual Investment between companies operating in different countries. Retail Prices Index over the three-year performance period. period, performance will be measured again over the four financial
Plan. At the end of the three-year holding period Executives are years following the date of grant of the option. To the extent the
Performance share awards and share options will be delivered to For these pre-2003 awards, if GlaxoSmithKline delivers returns
entitled to a matching award of 10 per cent of their deferred option performance conditions have not been met at the end of
US resident executives in the form of ADSs. Awards are delivered which would rank in the top 20 of the FTSE 100 based on TSR
shareholding. The match is not subject to further performance four years, the option will lapse.
in the form of Ordinary Shares to executives resident in the UK performance, then all of the shares, in this part of the award, will
conditions. This plan is open to approximately 700 senior
and other countries. All awards are made under plans which vest. For the 50th position in the FTSE 100, 40 per cent of the The Committee considers re-measurement to be an important
executives on the same terms. The Committee believes that these
incorporate dilution limits consistent with the guidelines provided shares will vest. If GlaxoSmithKline is ranked below 50th position, feature for the 2003 grant in the light of the imposition of
arrangements encourage shareholding amongst senior executives
by the Association of British Insurers, the National Association none of the shares, subject to this part of the award, will vest. performance conditions in an industry where most of the major
and considers it appropriate for the Executives to participate on
of Pension Funds and other shareholder representative bodies. Between the 20th and 50th positions, vesting will occur on a competitors do not apply them to options. The Committee will
the same terms.
Current estimated dilution from existing awards made since the sliding scale. consider prior to each annual grant of options whether a
Bonus awards for 2003 reflected the Committee’s belief that the merger is approximately four per cent of the company’s share re-measurement will be permitted.
company produced superior results during the year, after taking capital at 31st December 2003. b) Share options
account of factors outside the control of management, notably Pensions
Share options allow a holder to buy shares at a future date at
exchange rate changes and the launch of generic competition to a) Performance shares The Executives participate in GlaxoSmithKline senior executive
the share price prevailing at the time of grant. Share options are
Paxil in the USA. pension plans. The pension arrangements are structured in
For the Executives, the level of performance shares vesting is granted to more than 11,000 managers at GlaxoSmithKline
accordance with the plans operated for Executives in the country
based on the company’s TSR relative to the performance including the Executives. The share options granted in 2003 to
in which the Executives are likely to retire. Benefits are normally
comparator group over a three-year measurement period. the Executives are linked to the achievement of compound annual
payable at age 60. Details of individual arrangements for the
EPS growth over the performance period.
Executive Directors are set out on page 57.48 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration Report Remuneration Report GlaxoSmithKline 49
Share ownership requirements The key aspects of the new contractual framework are: • 2003 and thereafter However, if Dr Garnier leaves prior to age 60, he would receive
To align the interests of executives with those of shareholders, The above provisions apply but options will be subject to less than he would otherwise have been contractually entitled to.
Aspect Policy
executives are required to maintain significant holdings of shares performance testing in all circumstances and any options or Accordingly, the severance payment due to Dr Garnier on
in GlaxoSmithKline. These requirements are an important part of Notice period on 12 calendar months performance share awards made 12 months prior to the termination by the company other than for cause or on resignation
aligning the interests of executives with shareholders. The CEO is termination by the termination notice date will lapse. by the executive, will include a year’s worth of pension
required to hold shares to the value of four times base salary. employing company contributions.
Mr Coombe remains entitled on termination to the cash equivalent
Other Executive Directors are required to build a shareholding to or executive
of 12 months benefits and continuing medical and dental In the Committee’s view this balances the new pension
the value of three times base salary. Members of the CET are Termination payment - 1x annual salary and
insurance. arrangement with the contractual entitlement under the previous
required to build a shareholding to a value of two times base 1x annual ’on target’ bonus 1
contract aimed at providing a fair replacement for the previous
salary. A requirement to build a shareholding to a value of one - Nom itigation required 2 In addition, Dr Garnier and Mr Coombe are also entitled to receive
arrangement.
times base salary applies to the other top 700 executives in the one year’s worth of pension contributions on termination.
Benefits Governed by benefits policy,
Group. As a result of the policy review in 2003, the Executives are The new arrangement came into effect on 1st January 2004 and
including: Dr Garnier’s and Mr Coombe’s contracts were executed on
required to continue to satisfy these shareholding requirements is not likely to have an effect on the final accrued benefit or
3rd March 2004 and take effect from 1st January 2004.
for a minimum of twelve months following retirement from the - healthcare (medical and dental) transfer value of Dr Garnier’s pension. Dr Garnier has no
Dr Garnier’s contract will expire on 31st October 2007 and
company. - personal financial advice entitlement to a spouse’s pension or to pension increases, other
Mr Coombe’s on 31st March 2005, being the last day of the
- life assurance contributions than by reducing his own initial pension.
In order for shares to qualify for these share ownership month on which they reach their 60th birthday.
Vesting of long-term Rules of relevant equity incentive
requirements they must be held personally by the Executives or Mr Coombe participates in the Glaxo Wellcome defined benefit
incentives plan 3 No termination payments will be made in respect of any part of
have been earned but deferred under one of the share plan. On retirement at age 60, he is entitled to receive an annual
a notice period extending beyond the contract expiry dates.
programmes operated by the company. Unexercised share options Pension Based on existing arrangements and pension of 2/3rd’s of his final salary, a 2/3rd’s widows pension and
are not included in this calculation. As at 31st December 2003 terms of the relevant pension plan Upon Dr Yamada’s appointment to the Board, pending finalisation inflation proofing. In 2000 all benefits accrued under the Glaxo
Dr Garnier’s shareholding was 271,282 ADSs and Mr Coombe’s Non-compete clause 12 months from termination of his new contract, his previous contractual arrangements have Wellcome UK pension arrangements were augmented by the
was 173,911 shares. On his appointment to the Board on notice date 2 been superseded by a letter setting out the principal terms of his Trustees of the plans by five per cent to reflect a distribution of
1st January 2004 Dr Yamada held 52,930 ADSs. These holdings appointment, which is available for inspection. The terms of the surplus. This augmentation will apply to that element of
were in excess of the share ownership requirements at these dates. 1 DrGa rnier’s target bonus is 100 per cent of salary and Mr Coombe’s is 85 per cent letter expire on the earlier of the execution of his new contract Mr Coombe’s pension earnings before 31st March 2000. If the
of salary.
or termination on 12 months notice. Dr Yamada’s contract will be company terminates his employment prior to retirement
Other remuneration elements 2 The imposition of a 12-month non-compete period on the Executives is considered made available for inspection by shareholders when the final Mr Coombe is entitled to receive a pension calculated as if he
vitally important by the company in order to protect the Group’s intellectual
The Executives participate in various legacy Glaxo Wellcome and details have been confirmed. were employed for a further 12 months or until age 60 if sooner.
property. In light of the non-compete clause and competitor practice, the
SmithKline Beecham all employee share plans in either the UK or Committee believes that it would not be appropriate to provide for mitigation in
the USA and in the GlaxoSmithKline plans that replaced them. the contracts. When reviewing the level of severance payments, the Committee Pensions Other entitlements
considered investor and DTI guidance. However, it determined that in line with The UK plan provides for a pension based on two-thirds of final In addition to the contractual provisions outlined above, in the
The Sharesave plan and the ShareReward plan are Inland Revenue competitive practice it is appropriate to provide for the payment of salary and
salary at age 60. The US cash balance plan provides for an annual event that Dr Garnier or Mr Coombe’s service agreements are
approved plans open to all UK employees on the same terms. target bonus on termination. Mr Coombe’s previous contract specified
compensation to be paid in the event of redundancy. In the event that notice of contribution and interest on the sum accumulated in the cash terminated by their employing company they would be entitled to:
Mr Coombe is a member of the Sharesave plan, into which he
termination had been given, other than in the case of redundancy, Mr Coombe balance plan but with no contractual promise to provide specific
contributes £250 a month. This provides him with the option to would have been required to mitigate any resulting loss of earnings. • the Special Deferred Bonus awarded to each member of the
levels of retirement income.
buy shares at the end of the three-year savings period in line with CET in respect of 2001 and payable on 15th February 2005,
3 Asap proved by shareholders of GlaxoSmithKline, Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline
the opportunity available to all UK employees. Mr Coombe also Beecham, as appropriate. GlaxoSmithKline makes annual contributions of 15 per cent of unless terminated for cause prior to that date. Details of this
contributes £125 per month to buy shares under the Share Reward Dr Garnier’s annual salary and bonus. The fund increases at an bonus are given on page 52
plan. The company matches the number of shares bought each Dr Garnier and Mr Coombe have agreed to changes in their own interest rate based on the yield on 30-year treasury bonds. The
• in the case of awards under the GlaxoSmithKline Annual
month. contractual terms without compensation to come broadly in line company has no liability beyond making these annual
Investment Plan, provided that their agreement is terminated
with the new contractual framework, including the reduction of contributions.
The Executives also receive other benefits including healthcare other than for cause, any deferred amount and any income,
contractual notice period from 24 to 12 calendar months.
(medical and dental), personal financial advice and life assurance Prior to 1999 all US employees, including Dr Garnier, were moved gains and losses, are automatically distributed as soon as
However, in order to honour certain aspects of their ‘old’
contributions. The cash value of the benefits received by the from a final salary pension arrangement to the current cash administratively practicable after termination. If they resign,
contractual terms there are a number of individual features which
Executive Directors in 2003 is shown on page 52. balance structure. For all employees in the US cash balance plan retire or the termination is for cause then any deferred
will be retained.
contributions are based on combined annual salary and annual amount is not distributed until the end of the minimum
Executive Director terms, conditions and remuneration In Dr Garnier’s case these include the entitlement to bonus. three year deferral period
reimbursement of excise tax on change of control related
As part of the remuneration review, Dr Garnier’s pension provisions • in line with the policy applicable to US senior executives,
Executive Director contracts payments, life insurance benefit funded by the company to age 65
have been simplified by removing the entitlement to receive three Dr Garnier is entitled to receive continuing medical and dental
The policy regarding the Executive Directors’ contracts was the and the following provisions relating to the vesting of long-term
year’s worth of additional pension contributions on termination insurance
subject of extensive review and change during 2003. The new incentives:
and also by removing the entitlement to receive a payment from
policy provides the framework for contracts for Executive Directors • following the merger, those participants in the legacy share
• Pre-2003 awards the company which enables Dr Garnier to purchase an annuity
appointed in the future. option schemes who elected to exchange their legacy options
On termination by the company (other than for cause), on which treats him as being three years older. The new pension
for options over GlaxoSmithKline shares will receive an
retirement or on resignation for ‘good reason’ (i.e. resignation arrangement will provide for a simple annual contribution of
additional cash benefit equal to 10 per cent of the grant price
due to not being elected or retained as a director of the 15 per cent of annual salary and annual bonus so that the
of the original option. This additional benefit is triggered when
company or any merged company, or as a result of a change pension contributions will vary by performance.
the new option is exercised or lapses. To qualify for this
of control provided that such resignation occurs on or within
This new annual contribution rate does not represent an additional cash benefit participants had to retain their options
30 days of the first anniversary of the change in control) options
enhancement in Dr Garnier’s pension entitlement: it is designed to until at least the second anniversary of the effective date of
will vest in full and remain exercisable for the full option term
consolidate the previous additional contractual terms into a single the merger.
and performance shares will vest at the end of the performance
annual contribution rate. The new annual contribution percentage
period subject to performance but not time-apportioned.
ensures that as long as Dr Garnier continues his employment until
age 60, he is in the same financial position as he would have been
in prior to the consolidation of his contractual pension
entitlements.50 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration report Remuneration report GlaxoSmithKline 51
As a result of the remuneration review, a number of changes are Mr Allaire received fees of $88,000 per annum together with an TSR performance graph
also being made to the contracts of the CET members, who have allocation of 500 American Depositary Shares made under the The following graph sets out the performance of the company
not been compensated for agreeing to these changes. The Non-Executive Directors’ Share Arrangements. relative to the FTSE 100 index of which the company is a
amendments relate to the following aspects: constituent and to the performance comparator group since the
Dr Michèle Barzach, Sir Peter Job, Mr John McArthur, Mr merger on 27th December 2000. The graph has been prepared in
• on termination by the company for poor performance, the
Donald McHenry, Sir Ian Prosser, Dr Ronaldo Schmitz and accordance with the Regulations and is not an indication of the
notice period and related severance payments are reduced
Dr Lucy Shapiro likely vesting of awards granted under any of the company’s
from 24 to 12 months
The letters of appointment for all of the above Non-Executive incentive plans.
• the entitlement to post-notice long-term incentive grants has Directors were dated 19th June 2000 and in all cases it was agreed
been removed that they serve the company as Non-Executive Directors until the
100
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting (AGM) following the
• on termination by the company, performance share awards
third anniversary of their appointment. In the cases of Sir Peter Job, 90
made 12 months prior to the termination notice date will lapse.
Sir Ian Prosser, Dr Schmitz and Dr Shapiro their appointments may
80
For new CET members, the same standard contractual terms as be extended for a further term of three years by mutual
outlined above for Executive Directors will apply. agreement. Dr Barzach, Mr McArthur and Mr McHenry have 70
announced that they will retire from the Board at the conclusion
60
Non-Executive Directors terms, conditions and fees of the AGM on 17th May 2004. 31/12/00 31/12/01 31/12/02 31/12/03
GlaxoSmithKline Total Return FTSE 100 Total Return Index
Mr McArthur succeeded Mr Allaire as Chairman of the
Non-Executive Directors of GlaxoSmithKline do not have service GlaxoSmithKline Performance Comparator Group
Remuneration Committee on 5th June 2003 and his fees were
contracts but instead have letters of appointment. The company
increased to $88,000 per annum from that date. Mr McHenry
aims to provide Non-Executive Directors with fees that are Directors and Senior Management Remuneration
succeeded Sir Christopher as Chairman of the Corporate Social
competitive with other companies of equivalent size and The following tables set out for the Directors of GlaxoSmithKline
Responsibility Committee (now the Corporate Responsibility
complexity. Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to plc the remuneration earned in 2003; their interests in shares of
Committee) on 7th February 2003 and his fees were increased to
compensation if their appointment is terminated. GlaxoSmithKline plc; their interests in share options and incentive
$88,000 per annum from that date. Sir Ian Prosser succeeded
plans and their pension benefits. The members of the CET and
To enhance the link between Directors and shareholders and as Sir Christopher as Chairman of the Nominations Committee on
the Company Secretary, known as the Senior Management, also
set out in the table below, GlaxoSmithKline requires Non-Executive 7th February 2003. Sir Ian stepped down as Chairman of the
participate in the same remuneration plans as the Executive
Directors to receive a significant part of their fees in the form of Nominations Committee with effect from 1st January 2004 and
Directors and the aggregate remuneration and interests of the
shares allocated to a share account and offers the opportunity to was succeeded by Sir Christopher.
Directors and Senior Management are also provided.
invest part or all of the balance of fees in a share account. These
shares are not paid out until the Director’s retirement from the The fees payable and the share allocations under the Non-Executive
Board, or at a later date, and are paid on the basis of dividends Directors’ Share Arrangements for each of these directors is as
reinvested in the interim. follows:
The Chairman and the chairmen of the Board Committees receive Non-Executive Annual Shares Allocated
Directors Fees Annually
higher fees.
Dr M Barzach £45,000 1,000 ordinary shares
Sir Peter Job £45,000 1,000 ordinary shares
Terms and conditions
Mr J McArthur $88,000 500 ADSs
Mr D McHenry $88,000 500 ADSs
Sir Christopher Hogg
Sir Ian Prosser £55,000 1,000 ordinary shares
Sir Christopher Hogg’s letter of appointment to the Board was
Dr R Schmitz £55,000 1,000 ordinary shares
dated 19th June 2000, under which it was agreed that he serve
Dr L Shapiro $72,000 500 ADSs
the company as a Non-Executive Director until the conclusion of
the Annual General Meeting following the third anniversary of his
appointment. This may be extended for a further term of three Mr H Lawrence Culp, Mr Crispin Davis and Sir Robert Wilson
years by mutual agreement. The letters of appointment for all of the above Non-Executive
Directors were dated 9th June 2003 and in all cases it was agreed
Sir Christopher’s letter of appointment was amended on
that they serve the company as Non-Executive Directors until the
1st September 2002 to record his appointment as Non-Executive
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting following the third
Chairman with effect from 20th May 2002. He receives £300,000
anniversary of their appointment. In all cases this may be
per annum plus an allocation of 6,000 shares per annum.
extended for a further term of three years by mutual agreement.
Mr Culp and Mr Davis joined the Board from 1st July 2003 and
Sir Roger Hurn and Mr Paul Allaire
Sir Robert joined the Board with effect from 1st November 2003.
Sir Roger Hurn retired as Deputy Chairman and as a Non-Executive
The fees payable and the share allocations under the Non-Executive
Director, and Mr Allaire retired as a Non-Executive Director, with
Directors’ Share Arrangements for each of these directors is as
effect from 5th June 2003. Sir Roger’s and Mr Allaire’s letters of
follows:
appointment were both dated 19th June 2000 and in both cases
Non-Executive Annual Shares Allocated
it was agreed that they serve the company as Non-Executive Directors Fees Annually
Directors until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting
Mr L Culp $72,000 500 ADSs
following the third anniversary of their appointment. In both cases
Mr C Davis £45,000 1,000 ordinary shares
this could have been extended for a further term of three years by
Sir Robert Wilson £45,000 1,000 ordinary shares
mutual agreement. Sir Roger received fees of £80,000 per annum
together with an allocation of 3,000 ordinary shares under the
Non-Executive Directors’ Share Arrangements.52 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration Report Remuneration Report GlaxoSmithKline 53
Annual remuneration Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration
2003 2002 2003 2002
Total Cash Allocated Elected Total Cash Allocated Elected
Total Total Fees and salary £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Fees and Other Annual annual Fees and Other Annual annual
salary benefits bonus remuneration salary benefits bonus remuneration
Footnote £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 Current Non-Executive Directors
Sir Christopher Hogg 374 150 74 150 252 163 51 38
Executive Directors
Dr M Barzach 57 45 12 – 59 45 14 –
Dr J P Garnier a,b,c 916 386 1,485 2,787 967 132 1,353 2,452
Mr L Culp 29 – 7 22 – – – –
Mr J D Coombe b,c 490 17 730 1,237 475 15 457 947
Mr C Davis 29 – 6 23 – – – –
Total 1,406 403 2,215 4,024 1,442 147 1,810 3,399
Sir Peter Job 57 – 12 4559 – 14 45
Mr J H McArthur 62 49 13 – 62 48 14 –
Current Non-Executive Directors
Mr D F McHenry 65 52 13 – 62 48 14 –
Sir Christopher Hogg 374 – – 374 252 – – 252
Sir Ian Prosser 66 27 12 27 59 22 14 23
Dr M Barzach e 107 – – 107 100 – – 100
Dr R Schmitz 67 33 12 22 69 33 14 22
Mr L Culp 29 – – 29 – – – –
Dr L Shapiro 57 44 13 – 62 48 14 –
Mr C Davis 29 – – 29 – – – –
Sir Robert Wilson 10 8 2 – – – – –
Sir Peter Job 57 – – 57 59 – – 59
Mr J H McArthur 62 – – 62 62 – – 62 Former Non-Executive Directors
Mr D F McHenry 65 – – 65 62 – – 62 Sir Richard Sykes – – – – 154 129 25 –
Sir Ian Prosser 66 – – 66 59 – – 59 Sir Roger Hurn 50 32 8 10 121 40 41 40
Dr R Schmitz 67 – – 67 69 – – 69 Sir Peter Walters – – – – 51 29 12 10
Dr L Shapiro f 109 – – 109 118 – – 118 Mr P A Allaire 28 25 3 – 68 54 14 –
Sir Robert Wilson 10 – – 10 – – – – Mr J A Young – – – – 29 10 4 15
975 – – 975 781 – – 781 Total 951 465 187 299 1,107 669 245 193
Former Non-Executive Directors
The table above sets out the remuneration received as Non-Executive Directors of GlaxoSmithKline. Accordingly, it does not include
Sir Richard Sykes a,d – 958 – 958 154 8 – 162
Dr Barzach’s fees received from GlaxoSmithKline France for healthcare consultancy provided or Dr Shapiro’s fees received as a member of
Sir Roger Hurn 50 – – 50 121 – – 121
GlaxoSmithKline’s Scientific Advisory Board (see page 52).
Sir Peter Walters – – – – 51 2 – 53
Mr P A Allaire 28 – – 28 68 – – 68 Non-Executive Directors are required to receive part of their fees in the form of shares and ADSs with the balance received in cash. They
Mr D C Bonham – – – – – 5 – 5 may then elect to receive either all or part of the cash payment in the form of further shares and ADSs. The total value of these shares and
Mr J A Young – – – – 29 2 – 31 ADSs as at the date of award together with the cash payment, forms their total fees which are included within the Annual remuneration
78 958 – 1,036 423 17 – 440 table under ‘Fees and salary’. The table above sets out the value of their fees received in the form of cash and shares and ADSs.
Total Non-Executive Directors 1,053 958 – 2,011 1,204 17 – 1,221 The shares and ADSs are notionally awarded to the Non-Executive Directors and allocated to their interest accounts and are included within
Total remuneration 2,459 1,361 2,215 6,035 2,646 164 1,810 4,620 the Directors’ interests tables on page 54. The accumulated balance of these shares and ADSs, together with notional dividends
subsequently reinvested, are not paid out to the Non-Executive Directors until retirement. Upon retirement, the Non-Executive Directors will
a) Following the merger, those participants in the legacy share option schemes who elected to exchange their legacy options for options over receive either the shares and ADSs or a cash amount equal to the value of the shares and ADSs at the date of retirement.
GlaxoSmithKline shares were granted an additional cash benefit equal to 10 per cent of the grant price of the original option. This additional benefit,
known as the Exchange Offer Incentive (EOI), is only payable when the new option is exercised or lapses above market value. To qualify for this additional The table below sets out the accumulated number of shares and ADSs held by each Non-Executive Director as at 31st December 2003
cash benefit participants had to retain these options until at least the second anniversary of the effective date of the merger. During the year Dr Garnier together with the movements in their account over the year.
received £182,478 relating to options exercised (page 55) and Sir Richard Sykes received £940,499 as a result of his options lapsing above market value.
These amounts are included in other benefits in the table above. Number of shares and ADSs
Dividends
b) Dr Garnier is a Non-Executive Director of United Technologies Corporation. In respect of 2003, Dr Garnier received $110,000 in the form of deferred Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements At 31.12.02 Allocated Elected reinvested Paid out At 31.12.03
stock units and 4,000 stock options with a grant price of $61.05. Mr Coombe is a member of the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG. In respect of 2003,
Mr Coombe received £36,724 and 1,125 stock appreciation rights with a grant price of €73.25. These amounts are excluded from the table above and Current Non-Executive Directors
retained by the Executive Directors. Sir Christopher Hogg 9,324 6,000 12,247 358 – 27,929
c) In 2001 Dr Garnier and Mr Coombe received a special deferred bonus awarded to them as members of the CET. The amount awarded was equivalent to Dr M Barzach 2,042 1,000 – 67 – 3,109
their salary on 31st December 2001 and was notionally invested in GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADSs on 15th February 2002. The bonus to be paid out on Mr L Culp - ADSs – 250 811 – – 1,061
15th February 2005 will be an amount equivalent to the then value of shares or ADSs notionally acquired in February 2002 plus dividends reinvested over Mr C Davis – 500 1,772 – – 2,272
the period. As at 31st December 2003 the value of those shares or ADSs notionally acquired in respect of Dr Garnier was £797,501, an increase of Sir Peter Job 7,309 1,000 3,674 245 – 12,228
16 per cent over the year. This includes dividends reinvested during the year of £27,428. Those shares notionally acquired in respect of Mr Coombe were Mr J H McArthur - ADSs 1,540 500 – 44 – 2,084
valued at £367,395 as at 31st December 2003, an increase of 11 per cent over the year. This includes dividends reinvested during the year of £13,078.
Mr D F McHenry - ADSs 1,502 500 – 43 – 2,045
d) In addition to the remuneration received as a former director, as set out above, Sir Richard Sykes received £49,000 relating to his appointment as Senior Sir Ian Prosser 5,642 1,000 2,200 188 – 9,030
Advisor from 1st June 2002. Dr R Schmitz 4,600 1,000 1,796 154 – 7,550
Dr L Shapiro - Shares 1,570 – – 49 – 1,619
e) Dr Barzach received fees of €72,268 (2002 – €66,369) from a subsidiary of the company for healthcare consultancy provided. These are included within
- ADSs 1,502 500 – 43 – 2,045
fees and salary above.
Sir Robert Wilson – 167 – – – 167
f) Dr Shapiro is a member of GlaxoSmithKline’s Scientific Advisory Board for which she received fees of $85,000 (2002 – $85,000) with $30,000
(2002 – $30,000) in the form of ADSs. These are included within fees and salary above. Former Non-Executive Directors
Sir Roger Hurn 10,808 750 878 349 (622) 12,163
Where the Directors above have received part or all of their remuneration in currencies other than sterling, the average rates of exchange for the year have
Mr P A Allaire - ADSs 1,502 125 – – (1,627) –
been used. None of the above Directors received expenses during the year requiring separate disclosure as required by the Regulations.
Mr J A Young - Shares 3,749 – – 103 (1,874) 1,978
-ADSs 1,935 – – 47 (968) 1,01454 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration Report Remuneration Report GlaxoSmithKline 55
On 5th June 2003, Sir Roger Hurn and Mr Allaire retired from the Board. Following retirement they received the value of their shares and Share options
ADSs as awarded under the Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements (page 53) and equivalent SmithKline Beecham arrangements. Granted
As at 5th June 2003 they had been awarded shares and ADSs with a total value at the date of award, as indicated: Sir Roger Hurn Weighted average
£184,771 and Mr Allaire £51,817. On 5th June 2003 the value of these shares and ADSs due to them was: Sir Roger Hurn £156,401 and Options – ADSs At 31.12.02 Date of grant grant price Number Exercised At 31.12.03
Mr Allaire £41,338. The change in value is attributable to dividends re-invested and the change in share price between the dates of awards Dr J P Garnier 3,347,443 15.12.03 $44.57 460,000 191,743 3,615,700
and 5th June 2003. Sir Roger has elected to receive the value of his shares as at 5th June 2003 in quarterly instalments over 10 years and,
accordingly, received £7,894 in 2003. Mr Allaire elected to receive the 1,627 ADSs due to him on retirement. Mr Young has elected to Granted
receive the value of his shares as at 20th May 2002 in three annual instalments and accordingly, received £48,307 in 2003. Weighted average
Options – Shares At 31.12.02 Date of grant grant price Number Lapsed At 31.12.03
Directors’ interests Mr J D Coombe 1,158,979 15.12.03 £12.70 276,000 730 1,434,249
The following beneficial interests of the Directors of the company are shown in the register maintained by the company in accordance with
the Companies Act 1985: For those options outstanding at 31st December 2003 the earliest and latest vesting and lapse dates for those above and below the market
price for a GlaxoSmithKline share at the year end are given in the table below.
Shares ADSs
27th February 31st December 31st December 27th February 31st December 31st December Vesting date Lapse date
Footnote 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002 Weighted average
Dr J P Garnier grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Dr J P Garnier – – – 203,229 113,858 55,010
Above market price (“underwater”) at year end: vested options $59.46 1,133,448 23.11.01 24.11.02 23.11.08 24.11.09
Mr J D Coombe a,b 185,871 173,911 172,537 – – –
unvested options $51.63 900,000 29.03.04 28.11.04 29.03.11 28.11.11
Sir Christopher Hogg d 32,450 32,450 13,714 – – –
$55.99 2,033,448
Dr M Barzach d 4,095 4,095 3,028 – – –
Mr L Culp d – – – 1,061 1,061 – Below market price at year end: vested options $27.31 672,252 22.11.97 13.11.00 22.11.04 13.11.07
Mr C Davis d 7,439 7,439 – – – – unvested options $40.95 910,000 03.12.05 15.12.06 03.12.12 15.12.13
Sir Peter Job d 14,487 14,482 9,531 – – – $35.15 1,582,252
Mr J H McArthur d – – – 7,006 6,974 6,281
Total ADS options as at 31st December 2003 $46.87 3,615,700
Mr D F McHenry c,d – – – 4,889 4,889 4,345
Sir Ian Prosser d 9,940 9,940 7,047 – – –
Vesting date Lapse date
Dr R Schmitz d 7,550 7,550 4,600 2,840 2,840 2,840
Weighted average
Dr L Shapiro d 1,619 1,619 1,570 4,709 4,709 3,399 Mr J D Coombe grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Sir Robert Wilson d 1,295 1,295 – – – – Above market price (“underwater”) at year end: vested options £14.82 287,218 04.08.02 25.02.03 04.08.09 25.02.10
unvested options £18.04 580,000 29.03.04 28.11.04 29.03.11 28.11.11
One GlaxoSmithKline ADS represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares.
£16.97 867,218
a Includes shares purchased through the GlaxoSmithKline ShareReward Plan totalling 481 shares at 31st December 2003 (2002 – 225) and 526 shares at
Below market price at year end: unvested options £12.23 567,031 01.12.05 15.12.06 31.05.06 15.12.13
27th February 2004.
Total share options as at 31st December 2003 £15.10 1,434,249
b Includes a non-beneficial interest in trusts which hold nil shares at 31st December 2003 (2002 – 13,241) and nil shares at 27th February 2004.
c In addition to the interests shown above, Mr McHenry has interests in a deferred fees plan relating to the period during which Mr McHenry was a Director GlaxoSmithKline grants share options to Executive Directors and Senior Managers on an annual basis, generally in November. An initial
of SmithKline Beckman prior to the merger with Beecham Group in 1989. The deferred fees are now indexed to the total return on GlaxoSmithKline
grant was made following completion of the merger in March 2001. The measurement period for the options granted in March 2001
shares and are payable over seven years following Mr McHenry’s retirement as a Non-Executive Director of GlaxoSmithKline. The total accumulated value
commenced on 1st January 2001. The measurement periods for options granted in November 2001, 2002 and 2003 commenced on
of deferred fees on 31st December 2003, restated to reflect the merger and fully provided for, was equivalent to 22,563 GlaxoSmithKline ADSs.
1st January 2002, 2003 and 2004 respectively. The Directors hold these options under the various share option plans referred to in
d Includes shares and ADSs received as part or all of their fees as described under Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements above. Dividends received Note 34 to the Financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’. None of the other Directors had an interest in any option over the
on these shares and ADSs were converted to shares and ADSs as at 31st December 2003. These are also included in the Directors’ interests above. company’s shares.
The interests of the above-mentioned Directors at 27th February 2004 reflect changes between the end of the financial year and that date.
Following the merger, each of the Directors above elected to exchange their outstanding options in the legacy share option plans for
options over GlaxoSmithKline shares. These Directors and all other participants in those legacy schemes who made such an election, will
receive an additional benefit of a cash sum equal to 10 per cent of the grant price of the original option. This additional benefit will be
given when the new option is exercised or lapses, provided the exercise or lapse is on or after the second anniversary of the effective
date of the merger (or, as in the case of Sir Richard Sykes, on cessation of executive employment, if earlier).
2003 2002
Grant Market
Options exercised Date Number price price Gain Gain
Dr J P Garnier 06.05.03 28,582 $12.87 $43.25 $868,321 –
07.05.03 163,161 $16.09 $41.90 $4,211,185 –
191,743 $5,079,506 –
At the average exchange rate for the year, the above gain made by Dr Garnier amounted to £3,097,260. On 19th February 2004, Dr Garnier
exercised 231,052 options with an exercise price of $14.53 giving rise to a gain of $6,621,049. Dr Garnier also received $335,730 in respect
of the Exchange Offer Incentive benefit arising on the exercise of these options.
Mr Coombe did not exercise any share options during 2003 or 2002.
The highest and lowest closing prices during the year ended 31st December 2003 for GlaxoSmithKline shares were £13.90 and £10.00,
respectively. The highest and lowest prices for GlaxoSmithKline ADSs during the year ended 31st December 2003 were $47.64 and $31.85,
respectively. The market price for a GlaxoSmithKline share on 31st December 2003 was £12.80 (31st December 2002 – £11.92) and for
a GlaxoSmithKline ADS was $46.62 (31st December 2002 – $37.46). The share price on 27th February 2004 was £11.21 per
GlaxoSmithKline share and $42.62 per GlaxoSmithKline ADS.56 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration Report Remuneration Report GlaxoSmithKline 57
Incentive plans Pensions
Granted The accrued annual pension benefits and transfer values for Executive Directors on retirement are set out below.
ADSs Market ADSs
Performance Share Plan – ADSs at 31.12.02 Number price at 31.12.03 The regulations require disclosure of: the accrued benefit at the end of the year; the change in accrued benefit over the year; the transfer
Dr J P Garnier – 2001 award 70,000 – – 70,000 value at both the beginning and end of the year, and the change in the transfer value over the year. The Listing Rules require additional
2002 award 70,000 – – 70,000 disclosure of the change in accrued benefit net of inflation and the transfer value of this change.
2003 award 70,000 – – 70,000
Change in
2004 award – 200,000 $44.57 200,000
Change in Change accrued Transfer value
Accrued Accrued accrued Transfer Transfer over year benefit over of change
benefit benefit benefit value value in transfer year net in accrued
Granted
at 31.12.02 at 31.12.03 over year at 31.12.02 at 31.12.03 value* of inflation benefit*
Shares Market Shares £000 pa £000 pa £000 pa £000 £000 £000 £000 pa £000
Performance Share Plan – shares at 31.12.02 Number price at 31.12.03
Dr J P Garnier 929 565 (295) 5,578 5,636 676 (313) 676
Mr J D Coombe – 2001 award 40,000 – – 40,000
Mr J D Coombe 291 317 26 4,723 6,436 1,713 21 438
2002 award 40,000 – – 40,000
* The change in transfer value is shown net of contributions made by the individual.
2003 award 40,000 – – 40,000
2004 award – 120,000 £12.70 120,000
Dr Garnier is a member of the all employee US cash balance pension plan, under which GlaxoSmithKline makes annual contributions
calculated as a percentage of the employee’s base salary and bonus. The fund increases at an interest rate set annually in advance based on
The Performance Share Plan (PSP) is a medium-term incentive scheme introduced during 2001. The PSP replaces the Long-Term Incentive
the 30 year treasury bond rate to provide a cash sum at retirement. This cash sum is used to purchase a pension at retirement based on the
Plan and the Mid-Term Incentive Plan operated respectively by Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham.
annuity rates applicable at that time. Dr Garnier has no entitlement to a spouse’s pension or to pension increases, other than by reducing
Under the terms of the PSP the number of shares actually vesting is determined following the end of the relevant three year measurement his own initial pension.
period and is dependent on GlaxoSmithKline’s performance during that period as described on pages 46 and 47. The share awards are
The normal retirement age under this plan is 65 years of age. Dr Garnier’s pension arrangements have been bought into line with the terms
granted annually in November or December and the measurement period commences on the following 1st January, ending after three years
of his service agreement and the assumed retirement age reduced to 60. The effect of this has been to reduce Dr Garnier’s accrued benefit
on
by £295,184 per annum (£313,427 per annum excluding the effects of inflation) as the cash balance available under Dr Garnier’s plan is
31st December. The three year measurement period for the 2001 award ended on 31st December 2003. Based on the performance of
now required to purchase an annuity for five more years than previously assumed.
GlaxoSmithKline during that period, 50 per cent of the 2001 award vested in February 2004.
Shares exercised The transfer value, or cash sum, of Dr Garnier’s plan has increased by £676,261 over the year as a result of phased transfers froma
Market Average Money previous scheme, the further accumulation of interest and contributions paid by the Company of five per cent of base salary plus bonus.
price on market price value on
Shares award on exercise exercise Dr Garnier’s accrued benefit and transfer value have been translated at the year-end exchange rate of £1/US$1.79 (2002 -£1/US$1.61).
Long-Term Incentive Plan – shares at 31.12.02 Number £ £ £ at 31.12.03 The change in accrued benefit and transfer value have been translated at the average exchange rate of £1/US$1.64 (2002 -£1/US$1.50).
Mr J D Coombe 23,013 23,013 14.60 11.13 256,134 – Accordingly the changes in accrued benefit and transfer value stated above exclude exchange losses as follows: change in accrued benefit
over year £68,701; change in accrued benefit over year net of inflation £69,041 and change over year in transfer value £617,565.
The Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) was a share award scheme operated by Glaxo Wellcome. The plan closed to new entrants upon
completion of the merger and no further grants have been made. The award made to Mr Coombe in February 2000 vested in February Dr Garnier is also a member of the US Retirement Savings Plan, a money purchase scheme open to all US employees. Contributions are
2003 on completion of the measurement period. In connection with the merger the performance conditions in respect of the grant made invested in a range of funds and the value of the accumulated funds are paid at retirement. During 2003 contributions of £88,609 were
in February 2000 were waived. paid into this scheme by the company in respect of Dr Garnier, of which £2,439 was invested in GlaxoSmithKline shares in a stock
ownership account. The shares held in this account are included within the Director’s interests tables on page 54.
Vested and Vested and
Unvested Participations Unvested deferred Participations Dividends deferred
Mr Coombe’s transfer value has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.The
participations vesting participations participations vested reinvested participations
Mid-Term Incentive Plan – ADSs at 31.12.02 in 2003 at 31.12.03 at 31.12.02 in 2003 in 2003 at 31.12.03 transfer value represents the present value of future payments to be made under the pension plan. Whilst Mr Coombe’s annual accrued
Dr J P Garnier 36,985 36,985 – 116,009 36,985 4,430 157,424 benefit has increased by £26,377 (£21,433 excluding the effects of inflation), the transfer value has increased by £1.7 million over the year.
This increase has arisen primarily as a result of the following factors:
The Mid-Term Incentive Plan (MTIP) was a share award scheme operated by SmithKline Beecham. The plan closed to new entrants upon
completion of the merger and no further participations have been granted. In connection with the merger, the performance conditions • The method of calculating the transfer value is reviewed following the completion of each formal valuation of the pension scheme to
in respect of grants made in 1999 were waived. The measurement period ended on 31st December 2002. ensure that the assumptions used continue to be reasonable. Following the 31st December 2002 valuation, various assumptions were
updated including increasing the allowance for the life expectancy of members after retirement which led to an increase in the transfer
The participations that vested in 2003 were awarded to Dr Garnier on 24th November 1999 when the ADS price was $59.88. The ADS
values of all pension fund members. The assumptions used will continue to be reviewed following each valuation and adjusted as and
price at the time of vesting was $35.85. Where a final award of ADSs is made, receipt of the award may be deferred by a Director.
when appropriate
Dr Garnier deferred receipt of the full amounts awarded in 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003. The deferred awards, together with any
additional ADSs subsequently received through dividend reinvestment, are not included in the Directors’ interests table on page 54 • Annual increases to transfer values become larger the closer an individual is to retirement. Under the terms of Mr Coombe’s service
since technically they are retained in the MTIP until paid out. agreement he will retire at the age of 60. As Mr Coombe approaches retirement the transfer value of his pension will further increase
Average to reflect the level of funds required to meet the annual accrued benefit payments
Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) – ADSs At 31.12.02 At 31.12.03 grant price
• The yield of gilts, to which the underlying assets are linked, has declined therefore leading to an increase in the market value of the
Dr L Shapiro 1,487 1,487 $50.34
gilts required to meet the annual accrued benefit.
All SARs held by Dr L Shapiro have a grant price above the market price of a GlaxoSmithKline ADS at year end.
Dr Shapiro is a member of GlaxoSmithKline’s Scientific Advisory Board (SAB). Dr Shapiro was a member of SmithKline Beecham’s SAB from
1993 until the completion of the merger with Glaxo Wellcome. Along with other members of the SAB, she received annual grants of
SmithKline Beecham SARs which, in general, vested three years from the date of grant and will expire 10 years from the date of grant.
Grants of SARs to SAB members ceased in 1999.
SARs entitle the holder to a cash sum at a future date based on share price growth between the date of grant and the date of exercise.
Full provision is made in the financial statements for accrued gains on SARs from the date of grant. In connection with the merger, all
previously granted SARs became immediately exercisable.58 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration Report GlaxoSmithKline 59
Operating and financial review
and prospects
Directors and Senior Management
The Operating and financial review and prospects discusses the
For US reporting purposes, it is necessary to provide information on compensation and interests of Directors and Senior Management operating and financial performance of the Group, the financial
as a group (‘the group’). For the purposes of this disclosure, the group is defined as the Directors, members of the CET and the Company outlook and the financial resources of the Group, under the
Secretary. In respect of the financial year 2003, the total compensation paid to members of the group for the periods during which they following headings:
served in that capacity was £16,106,911, the aggregate decrease in accrued pension benefits was £174,219 and the aggregate payment
60 Financial trends and ratios
to defined contribution schemes was £318,480. During 2003 members of the group were granted options over 845,500 shares and
1,149,250 ADSs and awarded 355,500 shares and 499,500 ADSs in the Performance Share Plan. At 27th February 2004, the 61 2003 Year – results for the year to 31st December 2003 compared
then-current members of the group (comprising 26 persons) owned 460,939 shares and 451,034 ADSs, constituting less than one per cent to the year to 31st December 2002
of the issued share capital of the company. The group also held, at that date: options to purchase 4,788,785 shares and
70 Financial position and resources – at 31st December 2003
6,744,234 ADSs; 619,500 shares and 841,310 ADSs awarded under the Performance Share Plan, including those shares and ADS’s that
are vested and deferred; 4,188 shares and 227,262 ADSs under the legacy SmithKline Beecham Mid-Term Incentive Plan, including those 74 Outlook and risk factors
shares and ADSs that are vested and deferred, and 1,487 ADSs awarded under the legacy SmithKline Beecham Stock Appreciation Rights.
Additionally, in accordance with US requirements:
These holdings were issued under the various executive share option plans described in Note 34 to the Financial statements, ‘Employee
share schemes’. 77 2002 Year – results for the year to 31st December 2002 compared
to the year to 31st December 2001
Directors’ interests in contracts
83 Selected financial data UK/US GAAP
Except as described in Note 35 to the Financial statements, ‘Related party transactions’, during or at the end of the financial year no
The results for each year are compared primarily with the results
Director or connected person had any material interest in any contract of significance in relation to the Group’s business with a Group
for the preceding year. Reference is made also to quarterly and
company.
half-yearly trends within the results, where appropriate.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by
Exchange
The Group, as a multinational business, operates in many
countries and earns revenues and incurs costs in many currencies.
The results of the Group, as reported in sterling, are therefore
affected by movements in exchange rates between sterling and
overseas currencies.
Sir Christopher Hogg The Group uses the average exchange rates prevailing during the
Chairman period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas Group
3rd March 2004 subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures into
sterling and period end rates to translate the net assets of those
undertakings. The currencies which most influence these
translations are the US dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
During 2003 average sterling exchange rates were stronger
against the US dollar and the Japanese Yen by nine per cent and
two per cent respectively, and weaker against the Euro by
nine per cent, compared with 2002, giving an overall adverse
currency impact on the results for the year.
Business performance and constant exchange rates
Business performance, which is the primary performance measure
used by management, is presented after excluding merger items,
integration and restructuring costs and the disposal of businesses.
Management believes that exclusion of these items provides a
better reflection of the way in which the business is managed and
gives an indication of the performance of the Group in terms of
those elements of revenue and expenditure which local
management is able to influence. This information, which is
provided in addition to the statutory results prepared under UK
GAAP, which appear on pages 88 and 89, is given to assist
shareholders to gain a clearer understanding of the underlying
performance of the business and to increase comparability for the
periods presented.
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Group’s
practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange rate
(CER) growth. This represents growth calculated as if the
exchange rates used to determine the results of overseas
companies in sterling had remained unchanged from those used
in the previous year. CER% represents growth at constant
exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.60 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects Operating and financial review and prospects GlaxoSmithKline 61
Financial trends and ratios 2003 Year
Statutory results 2003 Growth 2002 Growth 2001 World economy World market – pharmaceuticals
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m
Fears of terrorism, SARS and the war in Iraq, including Global pharmaceutical sales increased by almost nine per cent in
Turnover -Pharmaceuticals 18,181 5 1 17,995 8 5 17,205
uncertainties of the war’s aftermath, held the headlines in 2003. 2003 to £279 billion.
-Consumer Healthcare 3,260 4 1 3,217 2 (2) 3,284
Rising unemployment in a number of major world economies and
Total 21,441 5 1 21,212 7 4 20,489 the collapse of the World Trade Organisation talks in Mexico did World market by Value % of Growth
little to underpin the fragile global economic situation. However, geographic region £bn total CER% £%
Cost of sales (4,544) – (1) (4,609) – (3) (4,733)
optimism for a recovery in the global economy and a more settled USA 127 46 1 1 2
Selling, general and administration (7,581) (2) (6) (8,041) (1) (4) (8,408)
economic climate emerged in the latter part of the year, though Europe 76 27 8 15
Research and development (2,791) (1) (4) (2,900) 12 9 (2,651)
there remained little confidence for significant improvement in the Germany 15 5 7 15
Trading profit 6,525 21 15 5,662 26 21 4,697 long term. France 14 5 6 14
UK 9 3 11 11
Profit before taxation 6,329 21 15 5,506 28 22 4,517 The USA dominated the areas of recovery, with a vigorous and Italy 9 3 5 13
Earnings 4,484 20 15 3,915 35 28 3,053 resilient economic performance, particularly in the consumer Japan 31 11 2 (1)
Basic earnings per share (pence) 77.2p 23 17 66.2p 38 32 50.3p sector. A growth rate of four per cent was achieved despite Asia Pacific 19 7 9 4
concerns over a growing budget deficit and the possible impact on
Latin America 12 4 (3) (11)
Merger, restructuring and disposal of subsidiaries interest rates and taxes.
Middle East, Africa 8 3 17 13
Cost of sales (356) (366) (303) In the UK, growth was also stronger than expected, although still Canada 6 2 12 11
Selling, general and administration (18) (498) (957)
subdued at 2.3 per cent. The effects of the first increase in UK Total 279 100 9 5
Research and development (21) (168) (96)
interest rates for four years in the autumn followed by a further
Trading profit (395) (1,032) (1,356) increase in February 2004 have led to predictions that UK rates The US market, although less buoyant than 2002, maintained
will increase further over the next 12 to 18 months. double digit growth and now represents 46 per cent of the global
Profit before taxation (390) (1,011) (1,652) prescription pharmaceutical market compared to 31 per cent a
Earnings (281) (712) (1,330) In the Euro zone, Germany’s economy continued to be weak, decade ago.
but growth in other countries such as France and Italy improved.
Business performance results Although these improvements were welcomed, there was general At 30th September 2003, GlaxoSmithKline held second position
Turnover 21,441 5 1 21,212 7 4 20,489 agreement that they did not indicate a long-term trend. The in the world pharmaceutical market with a market share of
Cost of sales (4,188) – (1) (4,243) (2) (4) (4,430) European Central Bank expressed confidence in the zone’s 6.9 per cent, behind Pfizer with a market share of 10.3 per cent.
Selling, general and administration (7,563) 4 – (7,543) 5 1 (7,451) economic situation and maintained its interest rates of two per GlaxoSmithKline had seven products in the world’s top 50
Research and development (2,770) 4 1 (2,732) 9 7 (2,555) cent from the middle of the year. The impact of the accession of pharmaceutical products; these are Augmentin, Avandia,
ten new countries to the European Union in 2004 and the likely Imigran/Imitrex, Seretide/Advair, Seroxat/Paxil, Wellbutrin and
Trading profit 6,920 9 3 6,694 15 11 6,053
subsequent changes in the labour force may slow future economic Zofran.
growth in Europe.
Profit before taxation 6,719 8 3 6,517 11 6 6,169
World market – Value % of Growth
Adjusted earnings 4,765 8 3 4,627 11 6 4,383 Towards the end of the year, other industrialised nations followed top five therapeutic classes £bn total CER% £%
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 82.1p 10 5 78.3p 13 8 72.3p the USA by reporting signs of recovery. China’s growth was healthy
Cardiovascular 47 17 7 4
at 9.1 per cent, with projections for 2004 at a more cautious
Research and development – Statutory Central nervous system 46 16 13 8
seven per cent. However, Japan’s economy showed slower than
Alimentary tract and metabolic 36 13 8 4
Pharmaceuticals 2,704 2,791 2,549 expected growth, reflecting a continued weakness in business
Anti-infectives (bacterial,
Consumer Healthcare 87 109 102 investment. Despite this, there was optimism for stronger growth.
viral and fungal) excluding vaccines 31 11 7 2
Total 2,791 2,900 2,651 Alongside signs of a slow recovery of the global economy in 2003, Respiratory 20 7 2 (2)
share price indices improved and halted their three-year decline,
Interest indicating reduced risks of recession and deflation. (Note: data based on 12 months to 30th September 2003.)
Net interest payable 161 141 88
The momentum achieved in the latter stages of the year, Pharmaceutical turnover
Interest cover 40 times 40 times 52 times
particularly in some economies of Asia and in the USA and UK,
All growth rates included in the review of turnover are at constant
indicates a renewed strength in the world economy for 2004,
Interest cover is calculated as statutory profit before interest divided by net interest payable. exchange rates (CER) unless otherwise stated. The sterling growth
likely to be led again by the USA and followed, albeit less steeply
rates may be found in the tables of pharmaceutical turnover by
Tax rate and more slowly, by Europe.
therapeutic area on page 63 and by geographic region on
Business performance 27.5% 27.0% 26.8%
page 64.
Statutory results 27.5% 26.5% 29.5% Exchange
Total pharmaceutical turnover in 2003 was £18,181 million
The currencies that most influence the Group’s results are the US
Borrowings compared with £17,995 million in 2002, an increase of five per
dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
Net debt 1,648 2,335 2,101 cent. Approximately one per cent of this overall growth came from
Gearing 16% 24% 20% The pound hit its highest level against the dollar for more than price increases and the remainder from volume growth. Growth
three years, climbing to $1.79 at the year-end, and the Euro gained in sterling terms of one per cent was significantly impacted by the
The gearing ratio is calculated as net debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds, net debt and minority interests. 20 per cent against the dollar in 2003, the first year that the dollar weakness of the US dollar and other currencies.
has fallen in value against the Euro, as investors weighed up the
Within the Group’s portfolio, turnover of new products launched
impact of continued unrest in Iraq, tension elsewhere in the world
in a major market within the last five years accounted for 25 per
and concerns for the US economy.
cent of total turnover and grew by 29 per cent to £4,633 million.
Turnover of the more established, franchise products amounted
to £9,888 million representing 54 per cent of total turnover and
grew one per cent compared to last year. Turnover of older
products, now less actively promoted, was £3,660 million, a
decline of eight per cent, representing 21 per cent of total
turnover.62 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects Operating and financial review and prospects GlaxoSmithKline 63
Global pharmaceutical turnover in the fourth quarter of 2003 Respiratory Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2003
declined two per cent, reflecting a US turnover decline of GlaxoSmithKline continues to be the global leader in respiratory
Total USA Europe International
six per cent to £2,188 million; whereas in Europe turnover grew pharmaceuticals with sales of its three key products,
two per cent to £1,363 million, and in International turnover Seretide/Advair, Flixotide/Flovent and Serevent, amounting to Therapeutic area/ % of 2003 2002 Growth 2003 Growth 2003 Growth 2003 Growth
major products total 0 500 1,000 1,500 2000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
grew four per cent to £964 million. Turnover in the US declined £3.4 billion, up 17 per cent. Sales of Seretide/Advair, the Group’s
due to generic competition to Paxil which began in September largest product, grew 39 per cent to £2.2 billion although this CNS 25 4,455 4,511 4 (1) 3,112 3 (6) 847 3 10 496 15 14
Depression 2,830 2,937 2 (4) 2,107 1 (7) 369 (8) (2) 354 25 23
2003. contributed to declines in Serevent and Flixotide, its constituent
Seroxat/Paxil 1,877 2,055 (4) (9) 1,179 (9) (17) 369 (8) (2) 329 25 23
products. Seretide/Advair is now one of the top ten pharmaceutical Wellbutrin 953 882 18 8 928 18 8 – – – 25 30 25
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area brands in the world. In the USA, sales grew 54 per cent to
£1,235 million. Migraine 849 888 1 (4) 609 (1) (9) 179 3 11 61 7 7
GlaxoSmithKline’s ability to continue to deliver pharmaceutical Imigran/Imitrex 760 798 – (5) 560 (1) (9) 147 3 11 53 7 8
turnover growth, despite generic competition to several of its Seretide also continued to perform strongly in Europe (up Naramig/Amerge 89 90 1 (1) 49 (3) (9) 32 7 14 8 7 –
products, is primarily due to an exceptionally broad product 18 per cent) and International markets (up 37 per cent). The
Lamictal 556 438 31 27 311 38 26 202 26 34 43 9 8
portfolio of fast-growing, high-value products. growth prospects for Advair were further strengthened with an Requip 99 89 13 11 47 9 – 47 15 24 5 43 25
FDA approval for use in the treatment of Chronic Obstructive Zyban 75 99 (25) (24) 28 (35) (40) 32 12 19 15 (45) (40)
These include the Respiratory product Seretide/Advair (£2.2 billion)
Pulmonary Disease (COPD) in the fourth quarter 2003.
up 39 per cent, the diabetes treatment Avandia/Avandamet Respiratory 24 4,417 3,987 14 11 2,242 21 11 1,481 4 10 694 13 11
(£0.9 billion) up 24 per cent, Wellbutrin for depression The older respiratory products Ventolin and Becotide continued Flixotide/Flovent,
Serevent, Seretide/Advair 3,352 2,937 17 14 1,750 23 12 1,170 7 15 432 18 19
(£0.9 billion) up 18 per cent, the emesis treatment Zofran to decline as patients converted to newer products.
Seretide/Advair 2,214 1,631 39 36 1,235 54 41 773 18 27 206 37 40
(£0.8 billion) up 16 per cent, Lamictal for epilepsy (£0.6 billion) Flixotide/Flovent 705 783 (8) (10) 319 (10) (18) 208 (10) (5) 178 1 1
up 31 per cent, Trizivir for HIV (£0.4 billion) up 22 per cent, Anti-virals Serevent 433 523 (15) (17) 196 (27) (33) 189 (5) (1) 48 26 26
Valtrex for herpes (£0.5 billion) up 23 per cent, Coreg for heart HIV medicines grew across all regions and totalled £1.5 billion in Flixonase/Flonase 594 534 19 11 461 22 12 56 1 8 77 14 12
Ventolin 265 265 (1) – 4 (50) (50) 134 (5) 1 127 7 2
disease (£0.4 billion) up 28 per cent and the pediatric vaccine sales, up six per cent. Sales of Trizivir, GlaxoSmithKline’s triple
Becotide 111 130 (16) (15) – – – 93 (15) (11) 18 (23) (28)
Infanrix/Pediarix (£0.3 billion) up 32 per cent. combination therapy, grew 22 per cent to £376 million. Lexiva,
for HIV, was launched in December 2003, with initial sales of Anti-virals 13 2,349 2,299 5 2 1,159 4 (4) 726 5 14 464 7 3
Central nervous system (CNS) £7 million. HIV 1,508 1,465 6 3 798 2 (7) 555 11 20 155 12 6
Trizivir 376 315 22 19 219 20 10 143 28 39 14 27 17
CNS sales grew four per cent to £4,455 million. Sales in the US
Global sales of Valtrex, which received FDA approval in August Combivir 589 588 3 – 301 (3) (11) 218 8 17 70 16 9
and Europe grew three per cent. International sales grew 2003 to reduce the risk of transmission of genital herpes, rose Epivir 293 295 2 (1) 148 (1) (10) 107 5 14 38 6 3
15 per cent. Retrovir 45 50 (10) (10) 19 (12) (17) 16 (14) (6) 10 1 –
23 per cent to £499 million.
Ziagen 167 173 (1) (3) 86 (6) (15) 61 7 15 20 7 5
Sales of Seroxat/Paxil, GlaxoSmithKline’s leading product for Agenerase 31 44 (25) (30) 19 (33) (39) 9 (5) – 3 1 (25)
depression and anxiety disorders, declined four per cent to Anti-bacterials
Herpes 669 653 6 2 325 15 5 148 (3) 6 196 (2) (4)
£1,877 million. US sales declined nine per cent to £1,179 million Anti-bacterial sales declined 16 per cent worldwide and
Valtrex 499 425 23 17 316 26 15 86 9 18 97 25 26
following the launch of a generic paroxetine in September 2003. 41 per cent in the USA. Augmentin’s US sales were down Zovirax 170 228 (26) (25) 9 (72) (74) 62 (16) (7) 99 (19) (22)
By January 2004, GlaxoSmithKline's innovative new product Paxil 51 per cent in the year as a result of generic competition that
CR increased its share of total Paxil prescriptions (branded and began in the third quarter 2002. Zeffix 129 123 11 5 10 (4) (17) 17 2 6 102 14 7
generic) since the generic launch from 33 per cent to 37 per cent.
In the USA, GlaxoSmithKline’s two new antibiotics, Augmentin ES Anti-bacterials 10 1,815 2,210 (16) (18) 524 (41) (46) 755 1 8 536 6 (1)
Paxil CR sales in 2003 were £387 million. Europe Paxil sales
for children, and Augmentin XR for adults, recorded combined Augmentin 825 1,191 (29) (31) 312 (51) (56) 332 (2) 5 181 11 5
declined eight per cent to £369 million reflecting competition Zinnat/Ceftin 246 243 – 1 22 (29) (35) 134 6 15 90 4 (2)
sales of £237 million in 2003 in spite of generic competition.
and pricing pressures. International sales grew 25 per cent to Fortum 184 201 (9) (8) 27 (22) (27) 95 (9) (1) 62 (3) (9)
£329 million led by continued strong growth in Japan. Amoxil 117 136 (11) (14) 19 (36) (41) 36 (26) (20) 62 15 5
Metabolic
Sales of Wellbutrin, for depression, grew 18 per cent to Worldwide sales for the metabolic category were £1.1 billion, up Metabolic 6 1,079 960 20 12 755 20 10 116 32 38 208 16 11
Avandia/Avandamet 931 809 24 15 755 20 10 70 57 67 106 40 34
£953 million, reflecting increased physician awareness of the 20 per cent. The Avandia franchise (Avandia and Avandamet)
product’s outstanding efficacy and favourable side-effect profile. grew 24 per cent for the year with US sales up 20 per cent to Vaccines 6 1,123 1,080 2 4 281 6 (3) 495 (1) 6 347 4 8
A new once-daily formulation, Wellbutrin XL, was launched in £755 million. Hepatitis 417 483 (13) (14) 157 (18) (26) 192 (12) (6) 68 1 –
September 2003. This formulation accounted for 40 per cent of Infanrix 336 254 32 32 124 71 57 147 17 26 65 10 12
Avandamet, a combination of Avandia and metformin HCI,
branded Wellbutrin prescriptions in early February 2004 and
expanded the Avandia metabolic franchise with its US launch in Oncology and emesis 6 1,001 977 9 2 743 10 – 163 1 7 95 13 12
seven per cent of sales in 2003. the fourth quarter 2002. In Europe, Avandia has benefited from Zofran 774 708 16 9 575 20 10 126 1 8 73 13 11
Hycamtin 110 94 23 17 77 33 22 25 – 4 8 14 14
Limited generic competition to Wellbutrin began in the USA in increasing physician acceptance with sales of £70 million, up
January 2004 for the 100mg dose. Generic competition across all 57 per cent. The franchise should benefit further from the EU Cardiovascular and
dose forms of Wellbutrin SR is expected at any time. approval of Avandamet in December 2003. Avandia also did very urogenital 4 771 661 22 17 495 24 14 176 10 20 100 34 28
Coreg 361 306 28 18 346 28 17 – – – 15 33 36
GlaxoSmithKline’s medicine for epilepsy, Lamictal, continued to well in International markets with sales of £106 million, up Levitra 37 – – – 22 – – 11 _ _ 4 _ _
40 per cent. Avodart 19 6 >100 >100 14 >100 >100 5 _ _ – _ _
grow across all regions achieving sales of £556 million, up
31 per cent. In June 2003, the FDA approved Lamictal for long-
Vaccines Other 6 1,171 1,310 (8) (11) 99 (15) (22) 355 (16) (13) 717 (3) (8)
term maintenance treatment of bi-polar disorder. Sales of vaccines grew two per cent to £1.1 billion, supported by Zantac 328 382 (13) (14) 77 (1) (10) 94 (25) (19) 157 (10) (13)
the Infanrix/Pediarix franchise, up 32 per cent to £336 million. The
hepatitis franchise declined 13 per cent to £417 million reflecting 100 18,181 17,995 5 1 9,410 5 (4) 5,114 2 9 3,657 8 5
competitive pressure in the USA and Europe.
In the USA, GlaxoSmithKline’s new Pediarix vaccine was launched CER% represents turnover growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates. An analysis of turnover by quarter is given in the Financial record (pages 152 to 155).
in January 2003. Pediarix adds protection against hepatitis B and
poliomyelitis to the Infanrix combination and results in up to six
fewer injections for infants.64 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects Operating and financial review and prospects GlaxoSmithKline 65
Cardiovascular and urogenital As a result, management believes that within the European region USA International
In 2003, Coreg sales grew 28 per cent to £361 million, benefiting turnover by market, on an invoiced basis as presented above, does The USA reported five per cent turnover growth in the year and An eight per cent turnover growth in the International region
from recent data that showed a highly significant statistical not properly represent the consumption of the products within this business represents 52 per cent of total pharmaceutical reflected a mixture of good growth in the Middle East and Africa,
difference in survival between Coreg and metopropol in patients each market. GlaxoSmithKline staff based in each market are turnover. Canada, Japan and Asia Pacific. Latin America also grew strongly
with heart failure. instrumental in the promotion of the Group’s products within their as Mexico rebounded following poor economic conditions and a
Advair maintained its strong growth with sales of £1,235 million
market, thereby creating a product sale and final consumption in re-alignment of wholesaler stock levels in 2002.
Levitra (vardenafil), a new agent for the treatment of erectile driving the overall respiratory growth of 21 per cent. However,
that market. The table below gives the adjustments made in order
dysfunction, was launched in the USA in August 2003 and in this adversely affected sales of its constituent products, Flovent Overall International growth was driven by Seretide, Seroxat/Paxil
to restate the turnover for markets within Europe on a turnover
Europe in the first half of the year. Levitra was researched and and Serevent, which both showed declines. Flonase indicated for and Avandia, partly offset by declines in Zantac and Zovirax.
created basis. These adjustments are GlaxoSmithKline estimates
developed by Bayer AG and is co-promoted with GlaxoSmithKline. the treatment of perennial rhinitis grew strongly by 22 per cent.
based on the most recent data from independent external sources, The Asia Pacific area grew due to the performance of Seretide
valued in sterling at relevant exchange rates. Management believes Sales growth of three per cent in the central nervous system and Avandia. Strong growth in a number of markets was partly
Oncology and emesis
that this turnover created basis of reporting turnover by market products included sales of Wellbutrin up 18 per cent, reflecting offset by a decline of one per cent in the largest market, Australia,
Sales of Zofran grew 16 per cent to £774 million, driven by a
provides a better reflection of the performance of the businesses the performance of the new once a day formulation Wellbutrin XL. reflecting reduced sales of Zyban, Zantac and the older antibiotics.
strong US performance, up 20 per cent to £575 million.
in each market within Europe. Paxil sales declined nine per cent due to the launch of generic
The growth in Japan reflected strong growth of Paxil, Serevent
paroxetine in September 2003. By January 2004, GlaxoSmithKline's
Other therapeutic areas The total turnover for Europe region is unaffected by this and Valtrex partly offset by the declines of Zovirax, Zantac, and
innovative new product Paxil CR increased its share of total Paxil
Sales of Zantac fell 13 per cent to £328 million with declines in restatement. government price reductions.
prescriptions (branded and generic) since the generic launch
all regions.
Parallel trade occurs occasionally elsewhere in the world but it is from 33 per cent to 37 per cent. Paxil CR sales in 2003 were The Middle East and Africa area followed the trends of most
not sufficiently material to affect significantly the turnover data by £387 million. other markets with growth in Seretide, Avandia, and vaccines. In
Regional analysis
market presented on an invoiced basis. Canada growth was driven by Seretide and Avandia.
Sales in the anti-virals therapeutic area grew four per cent with
The turnover reported in the table below represents sales invoiced
HIV led by a strong performance of Trizivir up 20 per cent, which
by GlaxoSmithKline’s local entity to its customers in the local Consumer Healthcare sales
Pharmaceutical turnover for Europe region in 2003 - partially drew sales from its constituent products. Valtrex, for
market plus co-promotion income within each market. reconciliation of adjustment for parallel trade 2003 2002 Growth
herpes, grew 26 per cent driven by the FDA approval for the £m £m CER% £%
Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic region in 2003 2003 2002 reduced risk of transmission of genital herpes. OTC medicines 1,556 1,586 2 (2)
on an invoiced basis Region/ Invoiced Adjustment Created Invoiced Adjustment Created
major markets £m £m £m £m £m £m Sales of Avandia increased by 20 per cent, benefiting from the Analgesics 342 339 4 1
R me ag joio rn m/ arkets % to to af l 0 3,000 6,000 9,000 20 £0 m3 20 £0 m2 C EG Rr %ow £th %* Europe 5,114 – 5,114 4,701 – 4,701 launch of Avandamet in November 2002. Anti-bacterial sales Dermatological 237 188 31 2 6
France 1,005 (39) 966 918 (51) 867 declined 41 per cent as a result of generic competition that began Gastro-intestinal 283 312 (2) (9)
USA 52 9,410 9,797 5 (4) UK 731 60 791 658 124 782 in the third quarter 2002. Coreg sales increased 28 per cent Respiratory tract 151 142 6 6
Europe 28 5,114 4,701 2 9 Italy 660 (8) 652 593 (29) 564 reflecting the benefit from recent data that showed a highly Smoking control 325 378 (8) (14)
Germany 538 59 597 502 47 549
France 1,005 918 (4) 9 Spain 528 (21) 507 502 (24) 478 significant statistical difference in survival between Coreg and Natural wellness support 166 162 3 2
UK 731 658 20 11
Italy 660 593 1 11 Central & 421 – 421 401 – 401 metopropol in patients with heart failure. Oral care 1,082 1,052 3 3
Eastern Europe
Germany 538 502 8 7
Spain 528 502 (8) 5 Other Europe 1,231 (51) 1,180 1,127 (67) 1,060 Europe Nutritional healthcare 622 579 9 7
Central & 421 401 7 5
Turnover by market within Europe has been adjusted for the effects The discussion of individual market performance in the Europe 3,260 3,217 4 1
Eastern Europe
Other Europe 1,231 1,127 (4) 9 of parallel trade to show turnover on the basis of the country region is on a ’turnover created basis’ rather than a ’turnover
where the product is finally consumed, not where the product was invoiced basis’. The growth in Consumer Healthcare sales of four per cent to
International 20 3,657 3,497 8 5 sold by GlaxoSmithKline. £3,260 million comprised an OTC medicines sales increase of
Asia Pacific 1,140 1,100 6 4 Europe region contributed 28 per cent of pharmaceutical turnover. two per cent, a Nutritional healthcare sales increase of nine per
Japan 753 712 8 6 Although overall turnover growth in the region was only two
cent and Oral care sales increase of three per cent.
L Ma it din
d
lA
e
m Eae sr tic
,
a
A frica
5 69 97
3
66 50 26 1 73 ( 61 ) Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic region in 2003 per cent, good growth was recorded in Italy and Central and
Canada 474 427 8 11 on a turnover created basis Eastern Europe, but government healthcare reforms, including OTC medicines
Region/ % of 2003 2002 Growth* pricing and reimbursement restrictions, adversely affected turnover Over-the-counter medicine sales were £1.6 billion, up two per cent.
100 18,181 17,995 5 1 major markets total 0 3,000 6,000 9,000 £m £m CER% £% in France, Spain and Germany. Seretide, GlaxoSmithKline’s largest
Sales of smoking control and gastro-intestinal products were
* CER% represents turnover growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at USA 52 9,410 9,797 5 (4) selling product in Europe, reported notable growth in France, Italy down significantly in the USA primarily due to flat market conditions
actual exchange rates. An analysis of turnover by quarter is given in the Financial record and the UK, although this was partly offset by expected declines in
(pages 152 to 155). Europe 28 5,114 4,701 2 9 and to private label competition. Growth from smoking control
Serevent and Flixotide. Trizivir showed strong growth in all of the
France 966 867 1 11 products recently launched in Europe and sales of dermatological
Individual governments determine the pricing of medicines in most UK 791 782 1 1 major markets in the region. The decline in sales of the herpes products acquired earlier this year helped to offset these declines.
countries within Europe, which can result in wide price variations Italy 652 564 6 16 franchise was mainly as a result of generic competition for Zovirax
for the same product. Parallel trade occurs when third parties Germany 597 549 (1) 9 partially offset by patients switching to the newer Valtrex product.
Spain 507 478 (3) 6 Oral care
exploit this price differential by purchasing products in the market
Central & 421 401 7 5 Oral care sales were £1.1 billion, up three per cent.
where low prices are enforced and selling them to governments Eastern Europe GlaxoSmithKline's Sensodyne brand continues to grow in all
and other purchasers in those markets where higher prices have Other Europe 1,180 1,060 2 11
regions.
been agreed. This parallel trade is permitted under the single
International 20 3,657 3,497 8 5
market rules in the European Union. GlaxoSmithKline does not Asia Pacific 1,140 1,100 6 4 Nutritional healthcare
derive any benefit from the profit on resale at the higher price. Japan 753 712 8 6 Nutritional healthcare products grew nine per cent to £0.6
Latin America 597 606 13 (1)
billion. Lucozade Sport and Lucozade Hydroactive continued to
Middle East, Africa 693 652 7 6
Canada 474 427 8 11 drive growth in this category.
100 18,181 17,995 5 1
* CER% represents turnover growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at
actual exchange rates. An analysis of turnover by quarter is given in the Financial record
(pages 152 to 155).66 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects Operating and financial review and prospects GlaxoSmithKline 67
Trading profit – statutory results Profit before taxation - statutory results Trading profit – business performance Profit before taxation - business performance
Statutory results include merger items, integration and The analysis and discussion below of profit before taxation relates To illustrate GlaxoSmithKline business performance in 2003, the The analysis and discussion below of profit before taxation relates
restructuring costs, and the disposal of subsidiaries. to statutory performance. analysis below of trading profit and the subsequent discussion to business performance.
excludes merger items, integration and restructuring costs and the
2003 2002 Growth 2003 2002 2003 2002
£m % £m % CER% £% Other operating income/(expense) £m £m disposal of businesses. Management believes that exclusion of Other operating income/(expense) £m £m
Turnover 21,441 100.0 21,212 100.0 5 1 Royalties and other income 75 75 these items provides a better reflection of the way in which the Royalties and other income 75 75
Other operating expense (436) (209) business is managed. Accordingly this information is provided as a Other operating expense (436) (209)
Cost of sales (4,544) (21.2) (4,609) (21.7) – (1)
supplement to that contained in the consolidated statement of
Selling, general (361) (134) (361) (134)
profit and loss on pages 88 and 89 prepared in accordance with
and administration (7,581) (35.4) (8,041) (37.9) (2) (6) Income from equity investments and Income from equity investments and
UK GAAP.
Research and other disposals 228 23 other disposals 228 23
development (2,791) (13.0) (2,900) (13.7) (1) (4) (133) (111) 2003 2002 Growth (133) (111)
Trading profit 6,525 30.4 5,662 26.7 21 15 £m % £m % CER% £%
Other operating income/(expense) includes litigation costs and Other operating income/(expense) includes litigation costs and
Turnover 21,441 100.0 21,212 100.0 5 1
provisions relating to legal claims on withdrawn products, provisions relating to legal claims on withdrawn products, product
Cost of sales product withdrawals and anti-trust matters, equity investment Cost of sales (4,188) (19.5) (4,243) (20.0) – (1) withdrawals and anti-trust matters, equity investment carrying
Cost of sales reduced as a percentage of turnover as a result of carrying value adjustments arising from stock market price Selling, general value adjustments arising from stock market price changes, royalty
benefits arising from merger and manufacturing restructuring changes, royalty income, product disposals and equity and administration (7,563) (35.3) (7,543) (35.5) 4 – income, product disposals and equity investment sales.
savings and a favourable product mix. A small pricing benefit was investment sales. Research and
more than offset by an adverse exchange impact. Merger and development (2,770) (12.9) (2,732) (12.9) 4 1 Other operating expenses were £133 million in the year compared
manufacturing costs incurred of £356 million were £10 million Other operating expenses were £133 million in the year Trading profit 6,920 32.3 6,694 31.6 9 3 with £111 million in 2002. The year-on-year movement reflects
lower than in 2002. compared with £111 million in 2002. The year on year higher provisions in 2003 for product liability, anti-trust and other
movement reflects higher provisions in 2003 for product liability, claims, partially offset by higher 2003 proceeds from product
Selling, general and administration anti-trust and other claims, partially offset by higher 2003 Cost of sales disposals and equity investment sales.
Selling, general and administration (SG&A) costs declined two per proceeds from product disposals and equity investment sales. Cost of sales reduced as a percentage of turnover as a result of
c e ine x cn c ret e l alr ee sn efl c de e c s t c ein o llg is nt gr se ad cv ou in sc tge sd s t oim n i se t uir a pg t pe ivr oe ri sn t. t nTe ehg wera s et pi o rw on de c ureo c s tpt s la a ra utn l nyd c o h o f efp sse ,e r t ca hbt ai yo r gn ea sl B T thhu ees i fipn nre o as fi l s st ed o ti n ts l ep d mo iss epa nol ts s sa rl eo gf a b rdu is nin ge ts hs ee s d i in sp 2 o0 s0 al3 o o f f H £ e5 a lm thi cll aio ren reflects b a thne an d ne a fi o t f fs a f sva eor ti u s brin a yg b a lef nr o p am r do v dm eu re sc er tg m ee xr i c, x h.m aAa n n gsmu ef a ia mlc l t ppu arr i ci cn ti .ng g r e bs etr nu ec fit tu r win ag s s mav oi rn eg s, S u Thh n ea d r e se hr t ao a rf ek p i onr fgo psfi r ots fi/ t( sl o os fs ae ss s) o o cf ia j to esin at r iv see sn t pu rir ne cs ip a an llyd fa ross mo c ti ha et e Gd r oup’s
relating to cost saving programmes and increased pension costs. Services businesses in 1999. Selling, general and administration holding in Quest Diagnostics, Inc.
Without the merger integration costs SG&A grew four per cent
Selling, general and administration (SG&A) costs grew four per 2003 2002
driven by selling cost increases, which accounted for a three Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated cent reflecting increased selling costs to support new product Net interest payable £m £m
percentage point increase. The charges relating to operational undertakings launches, charges relating to operational excellence cost saving Interest payable (214) (206)
excellence and pension cost increases each individually added one The share of profits of associates arises principally from the programmes and increased pension costs, partly offset by cost Investment income 61 73
percentage point, while cost savings reduced growth by one Group’s holding in Quest Diagnostics, Inc. saving initiatives. These cost saving initiatives were relatively small (153) (133)
percentage point. Together these produced a reduction of
2.5 percentage points relative to 2002 for the expenses expressed Net interest payable 20 £0 m3 20 £0 m2 restructuring activities in 2002 and 2003. It is estimated that Share of interest payable of associate (8) (8)
without the operational excellence charges SG&A would have
as a percentage of turnover. Interest payable (214) (206) (161) (141)
grown three per cent, driven principally by selling cost increases.
Investment income 61 73
Pension cost increases added one percentage point, but these were Net interest payable increased compared with 2002 largely as a
Research and development
(153) (133) offset by cost saving initiatives. Together these produced a result of the unwinding of the discounts on provisions and long-
R&D declined one per cent reflecting reduced merger integration
Share of interest payable of associate (8) (8) reduction of 0.2 percentage points expressed as a percentage of term receivables.
costs, partly offset by increased clinical trial and in-licensing activity
(161) (141) turnover.
and the reinvestment of merger synergies. Pharmaceuticals R&D
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation -business
expenditure represented 14.9 per cent of pharmaceutical turnover
Net interest payable increased compared with 2002 largely as Research and development performance
in the year.
a result of the unwinding of the discounts on provisions and Research and development (R&D) increased four per cent reflecting Taking account of net other operating income/(expense), the
long-term receivables. increased clinical trial and in-licensing activity and the reinvestment contribution from associates and net interest payable, business
Trading profit
of merger synergies. Pharmaceuticals R&D expenditure represented performance profit before tax was £6,719 million, compared with
Statutory trading profit was £6,525 million with a growth of
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation - statutory 14.8 per cent of pharmaceutical turnover in the year. £6,517 million in 2002, an increase of eight per cent.
21 per cent, stronger than turnover growth of five per cent,
results
demonstrating an improved trading margin of 3.7 percentage
Taking account of net other operating income/(expenses), the Trading profit Merger items, restructuring costs and disposal of businesses
points. This was principally due to lower merger integration costs,
contribution from associates, business disposals and net interest Business performance trading profit was £6,920 million with a
cost savings derived from merger integration, manufacturing and Merger and manufacturing restructuring
payable, statutory profit before tax was £6,329 million compared growth of nine per cent, stronger than turnover growth of five per
other initiatives partly offset by charges relating to operational GlaxoSmithKline has made good progress with its merger and
with £5,506 million in 2002, an increase of 21 per cent. cent, demonstrating an improved trading margin of 0.7 points to
excellence cost saving programmes and higher pension costs. manufacturing restructuring plans. The merger programmes are
32.3 per cent compared with 2002. This was principally due to cost
substantially complete at the end of 2003. Combined these
savings derived from merger integration, manufacturing and other
programmes have now produced annual savings which exceeded
initiatives, partly offset by charges relating to operational excellence
the published target of £1.8 billion.
cost saving programmes and higher pension costs.
Costs of £369 million were incurred in the year in respect of
The focus of operational excellence is on value creation and the
merger and manufacturing restructuring. After tax relief of
elimination of waste and bureaucracy. This programme has become
£91 million, the net charge was £278 million. The costs in 2003
an integral part of the way the business is managed and so any
include severance, asset write-downs, professional fees and site
charges are booked to business performance.
closure.68 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects Operating and financial review and prospects GlaxoSmithKline 69
Block Drug Company, Inc. GlaxoSmithKline uses the best advice in determining its transfer Critical accounting policies Impairment of fixed assets
GlaxoSmithKline acquired Block Drug in January 2001. The costs pricing methodology and in seeking to manage transfer pricing The carrying values of fixed assets subject to depreciation and
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance
incurred in integrating this business were £26 million in 2003 issues to a satisfactory conclusion and, on the basis of external amortisation are reviewed for impairment when there is an
with UK generally accepted accounting principles, following the
including redundancies, asset write-downs and site closures. professional advice, continues to believe that it has made adequate indication that the values of the assets might be impaired.
accounting policies approved by the Board and described in
provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments. Impairment is determined by reference to the higher of net
Note 2 to the Financial statements, ‘Accounting policies’.
Disposal of businesses However, there continues to be a wide difference of views realisable value and value in use, measured by reference to
Management is required to make estimates and assumptions that
The profit on disposal of businesses in 2003 of £5 million reflects between the Group and the IRS. The ultimate liability for such risk-adjusted future cashflows discounted using appropriate risk-
affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses
the final settlements regarding the disposal of the Healthcare matters may vary significantly from amounts provided and is free interest rates. These future cashflows are based on business
reported in the financial statements. Actual amounts and results
Services businesses in 1999. dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings and forecasts and are therefore inherently judgemental. Future events
could differ from those estimates. The following are considered to
negotiations with the relevant tax authorities. could cause the assumptions used in these impairment reviews to
be the critical accounting policies adopted.
Taxation change with a consequent adverse effect on the future results of
The credit for taxation on merger and restructuring items
2003 2002 the Group.
£m £m amounting to £109 million reflects the actual tax rate applicable Turnover
Business performance (1,848) (1,760) to the transactions in the territories in which they arise. Gross turnover is reduced by discounts and allowances which vary
Investment in own shares
Merger, restructuring and disposal by product arrangements and buying groups. These arrangements
of subsidiaries 109 299 Earnings Growth with purchasing organisations are dependent upon the submission GlaxoSmithKline has invested in its own shares through Employee
2003 2002 CER% £% Share Ownership Trusts in order to meet obligations arising from
of claims some time after the initial recognition of the sale. A
Total (1,739) (1,461) Statutory earnings (£m) 4,484 3,915 20 15 certain of the company’s employee share option schemes. These
provision is made at the time of sale for the estimated discount or
Basic earnings per share 77.2p 66.2p 23 17 shares are held at cost, less a provision to recognise any shortfall
allowance payable based on historical experience. These amounts
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations, Basic earnings per ADS $2.53 $1.99 23 27 in the proceeds receivable from the employee on exercise, unless
are subject to change dependent upon, amongst other things, the
involving significant investment in research and strategic management believes there to be a permanent impairment in
types of buying group and product sales mix. The level of provision
manufacture at a limited number of locations, with consequential Adjusted earnings (£m) 4,765 4,627 8 3 their value in relation to the period of time over which the related
is reviewed regularly in the light of historical experience of actual
cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets, gives rise Adjusted earnings per share 82.1p 78.3p 10 5 share options may be exercised. Any impairment would have an
discounts or allowances given and any changes in arrangements.
to complexity and delay in negotiations with revenue authorities Adjusted earnings per ADS $2.69 $2.35 10 14 adverse effect on the results of the Group in that accounting
Future events could cause the assumptions on which the discounts
as to the profits on which individual Group companies are liable Weighted average number are based to change, which could affect the future results of the period. In 2004, following a change in UK accounting
to tax. Disagreements with, and between, revenue authorities as of shares (millions) 5,806 5,912 Group. requirements, these shares will be shown as a deduction from
to intra-Group transactions, in particular the price at which goods equity shareholders’ funds and will no longer be subject to
should be transferred between Group companies in different tax Adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share are presented potential impairment.
Legal and other disputes
jurisdictions, can produce conflicting claims from revenue above in order to illustrate business performance which is the
GlaxoSmithKline provides for anticipated settlement costs and
authorities as to the profits that fall to be taxed in individual primary measure used by management. Adjusted earnings Pensions and post-retirement benefits
associated expenses arising from asserted claims against the Group
territories. Resolution of such issues is a continuing fact of life increased by eight per cent. Adjusted earnings per share increased The costs of providing pensions and other post-retirement benefits
where a reasonable estimate may be made of the likely outcome
for GlaxoSmithKline. The Group has open issues with the revenue by 10 per cent reflecting the reduction in the weighted average are charged to the profit and loss account in accordance with
of the dispute. The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice,
authorities in the USA, UK, Japan and Canada, but by far the number of shares resulting from the Group’s share buy-back SSAP 24 over the period during which benefit is derived from the
have established provisions after taking into account insurance
largest relates to Glaxo heritage products in the USA. programme. The interest cost of this programme also impacts the employee’s services. The costs are assessed in accordance with
and other agreements and having regard to the relevant facts and
Group’s earnings. advice received from independent actuaries on the basis of
In the USA, for a number of years, GlaxoSmithKline has had circumstances of each matter and in accordance with accounting
assumptions selected by management. These assumptions include
significant open issues relating to transfer pricing. GlaxoSmithKline At actual rates of exchange, adjusted earnings per share increased requirements. No provisions have been made for unasserted claims
future earnings and pension increases, discount rates and expected
has attempted to settle the dispute, first through direct discussion five per cent in sterling terms, compared with 10 per cent in CER or for claims for which no reasonable estimate of the likely
long term rates of return on assets and are disclosed in Note 33
with the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and subsequently terms. The adverse currency impact on EPS of five per cent in the outcome can yet be made. The ultimate liability for pending and
to the Financial statements, ‘Employee costs’. The expected long
through discussions between the USA and UK authorities under year reflected the significant weakening of the US dollar relative unasserted claims may vary from the amounts provided, if any, and
term rates of return on assets are determined based on long term
the terms of the double tax convention between the two countries. to 2002 and compares with a four per cent adverse currency is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings,
government bond rates adjusted for risk and current market
GlaxoSmithKline understands that the views of the two tax impact on turnover. This difference principally arises from a investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
expectations. This Note also gives the additional disclosures
authorities were so different that they were unable to reach different mix of currencies in profits compared with turnover.
required by FRS 17 ‘Retirement Benefits’. The selection of different
agreement, and discussions were terminated in July 2003. Intangible assets
Taken together with other expenses, taxation and business assumptions could affect the future results of the Group.
Where intangible assets are acquired by GlaxoSmithKline from
The Group has now received a claim for additional taxes that the disposals this resulted in a basic EPS of 77.2 pence compared with
third parties the costs of acquisition are capitalised. Licences to
IRS asserts legacy company Glaxo Wellcome owes for the years 66.2 pence in 2002 and a diluted EPS of 77.0 pence compared Product rights and goodwill
compounds in development are amortised over their estimated
1989 to 1996. This statutory notice of deficiency for $2.7 billion with 66.0 pence in 2002. Merger and manufacturing restructuring In addition to the critical accounting policies outlined above, the
useful lives, but not exceeding 15 years. Estimated useful lives are
(£1.5 billion) in tax principally relates to the allocation of profits costs were lower in 2003 than in 2002 and as a result, the sterling accounting policy for product rights and goodwill is deemed to
reviewed annually and impairment reviews are undertaken if
for Glaxo heritage products between the USA and other countries. based growth in basic EPS of 17 per cent was significantly higher be important in respect of the balance sheet prepared in
events occur which call into question the carrying values of the
To the extent that the IRS were successful in its claim, interest than the CER based growth in adjusted EPS despite the overall accordance with US accounting principles. Under US GAAP the
assets. Brands acquired with businesses are capitalised
would be payable. GlaxoSmithKline estimates the interest on the negative impact of currencies in 2003. merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham in 2000 was
independently where they are separable and have a long-term
full claim to date would be approximately $2.5 billion (£1.4 billion), accounted for as an acquisition which gave rise to product rights
value to the Group. Brands are amortised over their estimated
net of federal tax relief. As similar tax issues remain open for 1997 Dividend of £24 billion and goodwill of £16 billion being recognised.
useful lives, not exceeding 20 years, except where the end of the
to date, GlaxoSmithKline expects to receive further claims by the The Board has declared a fourth interim dividend of 14 pence per Goodwill and those product rights determined to have indefinite
useful economic life cannot be foreseen. Where brands are not
IRS for these years. share making a total for the year of 41 pence per share. This lives are not amortised but rather reviewed annually for
amortised, they are subject to annual impairment reviews.
compares with a total dividend of 40 pence per share for 2002. impairment. These impairment reviews assess business projections
Since GlaxoSmithKline has exhausted all administrative remedies Impairment reviews are based on risk-adjusted future cash flows
prepared as part of the Group’s annual budgeting and planning
open to it, the company plans to contest this claim for additional In 2004, GlaxoSmithKline expects a similar increase in the total discounted using appropriate risk-free interest rates. These future
process to determine whether or not an impairment in the value of
taxes by filing a petition in the US Tax Court, where a trial is not dividend as has been declared in 2003. The allocation of the cash flows are based on business forecasts and are therefore
the goodwill has occurred. The business projections include
expected until sometime in 2005 or 2006. quarterly dividends will be rebalanced in 2004. GlaxoSmithKline inherently judgemental. Future events could cause the values of
assumptions about future events. Changes in future events could
intends to increase the first three interim dividends from nine these intangible assets to be impaired and this would have an
GlaxoSmithKline continues to believe that the profits reported by cause the assumptions in the business projections to change with a
pence to 10 pence, with the remainder of the total dividend for adverse effect on the future results of the Group.
the US subsidiaries for the period 1989 to date, on which it has consequent adverse effect on the future results of the Group as
the year being allocated to the fourth quarter dividend.
paid taxes in the USA, are more than sufficient to reflect the reported under US GAAP.
activities of its US operations.70 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects Operating and financial review and prospects GlaxoSmithKline 71
Financial position and resources
Financial position Debtors Commitments and contingent liabilities It is the Group’s policy to provide for the settlement costs of
Debtors increased in 2003 reflecting the timing of year-end Financial commitments are summarised in Note 26 to the Financial asserted claims and environmental disputes when a reasonable
2003 2002
£m £m receipts, a higher deferred tax asset, insurance receivables and statements, ‘Commitments’. Other contingent liabilities and estimate may be made. Prior to this point no liability is recorded.
Goodwill 143 171 additional cash contributions into the UK pension plan. obligations in respect of short and long-term debt are set out in Legal and environmental costs are discussed in ‘Risk factors’ on
Intangible fixed assets 1,697 1,637 Note 24 to the Financial statements, ‘Contingent liabilities’ and pages 74 to 76.
Tangible fixed assets 6,441 6,649 Provisions Note 25 to the Financial statements, ‘Net debt’.
GlaxoSmithKline uses the best advice in determining its transfer
Investments 3,069 3,121 The Group carried provisions of £3,030 million at 31st December
Amounts provided for pensions and post-retirement benefits, pricing methodology and, on the basis of external professional
2003 in respect of estimated future liabilities, of which £1,007
Fixed assets 11,350 11,578 restructuring and integration plans and legal, environmental and advice, continues to believe that it has made adequate provision
million related to legal and other disputes and £807 million
other disputes are set out in Note 23 to the Financial statements, for the liabilities likely to arise from open taxation assessments.
Equity investments 164 161 related to pensions and other post-retirement benefits for
‘Provisions for liabilities and charges’. The ultimate liability for such matters may vary significantly from
Stocks 2,109 2,080 employees. Provision has been made for tax, legal and other
amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
Debtors 6,897 6,200 disputes, indemnified disposal liabilities and the costs of
Contractual obligations and commitments proceedings and negotiations with the relevant tax authorities.
Liquid investments 2,493 1,256 manufacturing restructuring and merger integration to the extent
The following table sets out the Group’s contractual obligations This is discussed further in Note 12 to the Financial statements,
Cash at bank 962 1,052 that at the balance sheet date an actual or constructive obligation
and commitments as they fall due for payment. ‘Taxation’.
existed and could be reasonably estimated.
Current assets 12,625 10,749
Loans and overdrafts (1,452) (1,551) Net debt To £t mal Under 1 £ myr 1-3 £y mrs 3-5 £y mrs 5 y £rs m+ Cash flow
Other creditors (7,145) (7,257) Group net debt at 31st December comprised: Loans 5,090 1,451 840 1,198 1,601 A summary of the consolidated cash flow statement is set out
Creditors: amounts due within one year (8,597) (8,808) 2003 2002 Finance lease obligations 13 1 3 3 6 below:
£m £m
Net current assets 4,028 1,941 Operating lease 2003 2002
Cash and liquid investments 3,455 2,308 commitments 547 120 172 97 158 £m £m
Total assets less current liabilities 15,378 13,519 Borrowings – repayable within one year (1,452) (1,551) Intangible fixed assets 1,412 150 252 312 698 Net cash inflow from operating activities 7,005 7,255
Loans (3,651) (3,092) Borrowings – repayable after one year (3,651) (3,092) Tangible fixed assets 171 155 16 – – Dividends from joint ventures and
Other creditors (232) (206) Net debt (1,648) (2,335) Other commitments 144 58 55 31 – associated undertakings 1 2
Returns on investment and servicing
Creditors: amounts due after one year (3,883) (3,298) Total 7,377 1,935 1,338 1,641 2,463
Net debt decreased in 2003 to £1,648 million primarily due to of finance (231) (237)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (3,030) (2,833) lower purchases of shares by the company for cancellation, partly The Group has entered into a number of research collaborations Taxation paid (1,917) (1,633)
Net assets 8,465 7,388 offset by an increase in working capital. to develop new compounds with other pharmaceutical companies. Capital expenditure and financial investment (928) (1,120)
The terms of these arrangements can include up-front fees, equity Acquisitions and disposals (12) (20)
Called up share capital 1,487 1,506 Pensions investments, loans and commitments to fund specified levels of Equity dividends paid (2,333) (2,327)
Share premium account 264 224 The Group continues to account for pension arrangements in research. In addition the Group will often agree to make further Net cash inflow/(outflow) before management
Other reserves 1,925 1,905 accordance with SSAP 24. Under the transitional provisions of payments if future ‘milestones’ are achieved. As some of these of liquid resources and financing 1,585 1,920
Profit and loss account 4,044 2,946 FRS 17 the disclosed pension assets and liabilities of the Group at agreements relate to compounds in the early stages of Management of liquid resources (1,336) 52
Equity shareholders’ funds 7,720 6,581 31st December 2003 show a net deficit after allowing for deferred development, milestone payments will continue for a number of Financing (276) (1,567)
taxation of £1,300 million (2002 – £1,262 million). In the fourth years if the compounds move successfully through the
Non-equity minority interests 503 559 quarter of 2003 special cash contributions of £314 million were development process. Generally the closer the product is to (Decrease)/increase in cash in the year (27) 405
Equity minority interests 242 248 made to reduce the funding deficit. marketing approval the greater the possibility of success. The
Capital employed 8,465 7,388 The company will review this position annually and will make payments shown above represent the maximum that would be Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
further contributions as appropriate. paid if all milestones are achieved. A number of commitments 2003 2002
Investments were made in 2003 under licensing and other agreements, £m £m
GlaxoSmithKline had investments, excluding own shares, at principally with NeuroSearch A/S, Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. and Net debt at beginning of year (2,335) (2,101)
Shareholders’ funds
31st December 2003 with a carrying value of £458 million POZEN Inc. Pension commitments are provided in Note 33 to (Decrease)/increase in cash in the year (27) 405
A summary of the movements in equity shareholders’ funds is set
(2002 – £456 million). The market value at 31st December 2003 the Financial statements, ‘Employee costs’. Cash inflow/(outflow) from management
out below.
was £1,279 million (2002 – £1,220 million). The investments, of liquid resources 1,336 (52)
which include associates and joint ventures, are mainly in equity 2003 2002 Contingent liabilities Net increase in long-term loans (1,023) (1,005)
£m £m
shares where the holding derives directly from the Group’s The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising Net repayment of short-term loans 442 542
business. These investments include stakes in companies where At beginning of year 6,581 7,390 discounted bills, performance guarantees and other items arising Exchange and other movements (41) (124)
the Group has research collaborations, which provide access to Profit for the year 4,484 3,915 in the normal course of business and when they are expected to Net debt at end of year (1,648) (2,335)
biotechnology developments of potential interest or interests in Dividends (2,374) (2,346) expire.
companies that arise from business divestments. Shares issued on exercise of share options 41 56 The net cash inflow from operating activities was £7,005 million,
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
Shares purchased and cancelled (980) (2,220)
£m £m £m £m £m a decrease of £250 million over 2002, arising from the timing of
Own shares Exchange movements 30 (154) Guarantees 207 47 13 – 147 trade and other receipts over the year-end period and higher
At 31st December 2003 the ESOTs held 177.8 million UK tax: exchange movements and Other contingent liabilities 29 12 4 2 11 payments for legal and other provisionable items, partly offset by
GlaxoSmithKline shares, at a carrying value of £2,775 million and unrealised gains (69) (67) reduced restructuring and integration payments.
market value of £2,276 million, against the future exercise of Unrealised gain on equity investments 7 7 Total 236 59 17 2 158
Capital expenditure on tangible and intangible fixed assets
share options and share awards. This valuation shortfall is not At end of year 7,720 6,581
In the normal course of business the Group has provided various amounted to £1,062 million (2002 – £1,226 million). Disposals
considered to represent a permanent diminution in value in the
indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals in realised £46 million (2002 – £59 million). Equity investments
context of the length of the future period over which the related Equity shareholders’ funds increased from £6,581 million at which legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen. A costing £63 million (2002 – £75 million) were purchased in the
share options may be exercised. Accordingly no provision has 31st December 2002 to £7,720 million at 31st December 2003. provision is made where a reasonable estimate can be made of year and sales of equity investments realised £125 million
been made. The increase arises from retained earnings and positive exchange the likely outcome of the dispute and this is included in Note 23 (2002 – £65 million).
movements on overseas net assets partly offset by own shares to the Financial statements, ‘Provisions for liabilities and charges’.
purchased and cancelled.72 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects Operating and financial review and prospects GlaxoSmithKline 73
No shares of GlaxoSmithKline plc were purchased by the ESOTs Liquidity Funding, maturity and counterparty risk The Group uses a limited number of interest rate swaps to
in 2003 to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under The Group operates globally, primarily through subsidiary companies The Group invests centrally managed liquid assets in Government redenominate external borrowings into the interest rate coupon
employee share incentive schemes (2002 – nil). A total of established in the markets in which the Group trades. Due to the bonds, short-term corporate debt instruments with a minimum required for Group purposes. The duration of these swaps matches
£67 million (2002 – £114 million) was received on employees’ nature of the Group’s business, with patent protection on many short-term credit rating of A-1/P-1, money market funds with a the duration of the principal instruments. Interest rate derivative
exercise of share options. Of this, option exercises satisfied from of the products in the Group’s portfolio, the Group’s products credit rating of AAA/Aaa and preference share investments fully instruments are accounted for as hedges of the relevant assets or
shares previously purchased by the ESOTs yielded £26 million compete largely on product efficacy rather than on price. Selling collateralised with highly rated bonds. Credit ratings shown are liabilities, where possible.
(2002 – £58 million) and option exercises satisfied from the issue margins are sufficient to cover normal operating costs and the from Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s Investors’ Services
The Group manages centrally the short-term cash surpluses or
of new shares yielded £41 million (2002 – £56 million). Group’s operating subsidiaries are substantially cash generative. respectively.
borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies and uses forward
The Group purchased its own shares in the market for cancellation Operating cash flow is used to fund investment in the research The Group manages its net borrowing requirements through a contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating
amounting to £980 million (2002 – £2,220 million). In the period and development of new products as well as routine outflows portfolio of long and medium-term borrowings, including bonds, currency.
1st January 2004 to 27th February 2004 a further 5 million of capital expenditure, tax, dividends and repayment of maturing together with short-term finance under the US dollar commercial
Sensitivity analysis considers the sensitivity of the Group’s net debt
shares had been purchased and cancelled at a cost of £55 million. debt. The Group will, from time to time, have additional demands paper programme. In 2003, a €1 billion, 3.375 per cent coupon
to hypothetical changes in market rates and assumes that all other
for finance, such as for share purchases and acquisitions. bond and a €500 million, 3.25 per cent coupon bond were issued
variables remain constant. Based on the composition of net debt
Future cash flow under the European Medium Term Note programme.
GlaxoSmithKline operates at relatively low levels of net debt. at 31st December 2003 a one percentage point (100 basis points)
The Group expects that future operating cash flow will be
In addition to the strong positive cash flow from normal trading The Group’s medium-term borrowings mature at dates between increase or decrease in average interest rates would result in a
sufficient to fund its operating and debt service costs, to satisfy
activities, additional liquidity is readily available via its commercial 2004 and 2009, the private financing matures in 2032, and the negligible change in the Group’s annual interest expense.
normal levels of capital expenditure, to meet obligations under
paper programme. long-dated sterling bond matures in 2033. The private financing
existing licensing agreements and to meet other routine
may be redeemed by GlaxoSmithKline at any time and, in Equity risk management
commitments including tax and dividends, subject to the risk The Group also has an uncommitted Euro Medium Term Note
particular, on the occurrence of any event that would increase the Equity investments classified as current assets are available for sale
factors discussed on pages 74 and 76. The Group may from time programme of £5 billion, of which £2,833 million was in issue
cost of funding for the Group. During 2003 the Group also had and the Group manages disposals to meet overall business
to time have additional demands for finance, such as for at 31st December 2003.
$500 million of Flexible Auction Market Preferred Stock (Flex requirements as they arise. The Group regularly monitors the value
acquisitions. The Group has access to other sources of liquidity
AMPS) and $400 million of Auction Rate Preference Stock (ARPS) of its equity investments and only enters into hedges selectively
from banks and other financial institutions, in addition to the Treasury operations
originally issued in 1996. Notice to redeem the Flex AMPS and the with the approval of the Board.
cash flow from operations, for such needs. The objective of treasury activity is to manage the post-tax net
ARPS was given in February 2004, with redemption expected to
cost/income of financial operations to the benefit of Group
be completed in March and April 2004. Financial assets and liabilities
Payment policies earnings. Corporate Treasury does not operate as a profit centre.
An analysis of net debt is given in Note 25 to the Financial
GlaxoSmithKline’s long-term debt rating is AA from Standard and
Group companies are responsible for monitoring and managing GlaxoSmithKline uses a variety of financial instruments, including statements, ‘Net debt’. An analysis of financial assets and liabilities
Poor’s and Aa2 from Moody’s Investors’ Services. The agencies’
their working capital. The terms of sales collections and supplier derivatives, to finance its operations and to manage market risks at carrying value and fair value and a reconciliation to net debt
short-term rating for paper issued under the Group’s commercial
payments will reflect local commercial practice. from those operations. Financial instruments comprise cash and are given in Note 32 to the Financial statements, ‘Financial
paper programme is A-1+ and P-1 respectively.
liquid resources, borrowings and spot foreign exchange contracts. instruments and related disclosures’, together with a discussion of
In the UK, the company and each of its UK subsidiaries have
derivative financial instruments and quantitative disclosures about
policies to ensure that suppliers are paid on time. In particular, A number of derivative financial instruments are used to manage Foreign exchange risk management
market risk in accordance with the requirements of Financial
the UK companies seek: the market risks from Treasury operations. Derivative instruments, In GlaxoSmithKline, foreign currency transaction exposure arising
Reporting Standard 13.
principally comprising forward foreign currency contracts, interest on normal trade flows both in respect of external and intra-Group
• to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the
rate and currency swaps, are used to swap borrowings and liquid trade is not hedged. GlaxoSmithKline’s policy is to minimise the The Group continues to benefit from strong positive cash flow.
terms of the transaction
assets into the currencies required for Group purposes and to exposure of overseas operating subsidiaries to transaction risk Group net debt would have decreased significantly in the year
• to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the agreed terms
manage exposure to funding risks from changes in foreign by matching local currency income with local currency costs. to 31st December 2003, but for the Group’s purchase of its own
of payment
exchange rates and interest rates. For this purpose, intra-Group trading transactions are matched shares in the market of £980 million.
• to abide by the terms of payment.
centrally and intra-Group payment terms are managed to reduce
GlaxoSmithKline balances the use of borrowings and liquid assets The financial assets and liabilities at 31st December 2003 are
The policy includes arrangements for accelerated payment of small risk. Exceptional foreign currency cash flows are hedged selectively
having regard to: the cash flow from operating activities and representative of the treasury policies and strategies of
suppliers. under the management of Corporate Treasury.
the currencies in which it is earned; the tax cost of intra-Group GlaxoSmithKline, applied consistently during the year. There were
distributions; the currencies in which business assets are A significant proportion of Group borrowings, including the no significant changes in such policies throughout the year.
Payment performance
denominated; and the post-tax cost of borrowings compared commercial paper programme, is in US dollars, to benefit from
At 31st December 2003, the average number of days’ purchases
to the post-tax return on liquid assets. the liquidity of US dollar denominated capital markets. Certain of ESOT share purchases and shares purchased for cancellation
represented by trade and fixed asset creditors of the company
these and other borrowings are swapped into other currencies as Shares are held by the Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options
was nil days (2002 – nil days) and in respect of the company and Liquid assets surplus to the immediate operating requirements
required for Group purposes. The Group seeks to denominate and awards under the Group share option and award schemes.
its UK subsidiaries in aggregate was 21 days (2002 – 18 days). of Group companies are invested and managed centrally by
borrowings in the currencies of its principal overseas assets. A proportion of the shares held by the Trusts are in respect of
Corporate Treasury. Requirements of Group companies for
awards where the rules of the scheme require the company to
Treasury policies operating finance are met whenever possible from central Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies
satisfy exercises through market purchases rather than the issue
resources. that match investments in overseas Group assets are treated as a
GlaxoSmithKline plc is a UK based business, reporting in sterling of new shares. The shares held by the Trusts are matched to
hedge against the relevant net assets.
and paying dividends out of sterling profits. The role of Corporate External borrowings, mainly managed centrally by Corporate options and awards granted and diminish the dilutive effect of
Treasury in GlaxoSmithKline is to manage and monitor the Group’s Treasury, comprise a portfolio of long and medium-term Based on the composition of net debt at 31st December 2003 a new share issues on shareholders' capital and earnings.
external and internal funding requirements and financial risks in instruments and short-term finance. 10 per cent appreciation in sterling against major currencies would
At the 2003 Annual General Meeting, shareholders renewed
support of Group corporate objectives. Treasury activities are result in a reduction in the Group’s net debt of approximately
GlaxoSmithKline does not hold or issue derivative financial approval for GlaxoSmithKline to make market purchases of its
governed by policies and procedures approved by the Board and £128 million. A 10 per cent weakening in sterling against major
instruments for trading purposes and the Group’s Treasury policies own shares. On 23rd October 2002, GlaxoSmithKline announced
monitored by a Treasury Management group. GlaxoSmithKline currencies would result in an increase in the Group’s net debt of
specifically prohibit such activity. All transactions in financial a second share repurchase programme of £4 billion. The exact
maintains treasury control systems and procedures to monitor approximately £156 million.
instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from amount and timing of future purchases, and, following changes
foreign exchange, interest rate, liquidity, credit and other financial
underlying business activities, not for speculation. in UK company law, whether repurchased shares will be held as
risks. Interest rate risk management
Treasury shares rather than being cancelled, will depend on
GlaxoSmithKline’s policy on interest rate risk management requires
market conditions and other factors.
that the amount of net borrowings at fixed rates increases with
the ratio of forecast net interest payable to trading profit.74 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects Operating and financial review and prospects GlaxoSmithKline 75
Outlook and risk factors
Outlook Risk of loss or expiration of patents or marketing exclusivity Risk of substantial adverse outcome of litigation and Continued consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry could
Patent infringement litigation government investigations adversely affect the Group’s competitive position, while continued
Pharmaceutical sales growth of existing products is a key driver
Efforts by generic manufacturers may involve challenges to the See Note 30 to the Financial statements, ’Legal proceedings’ for consolidation among the Group’s customers may increase pricing
of GlaxoSmithKline’s current business performance. 2004 will be
validity of a patent or the assertions that their products do not a discussion of proceedings and governmental investigations in pressures.
a year of transition for GlaxoSmithKline. The first nine months
infringe the Group’s patents. If the Group is not successful, during which the Group is currently involved. Unfavourable resolution of
will be challenging as the Group absorbs the full erosion from The Group had eight products with over £600 million ($1 billion) in
the patent protection period, in maintaining exclusive rights to these and similar future proceedings or investigations may be
generics. However, starting in the fourth quarter it is expected annual global sales in 2003. Among these products are
market one or more of its major products, particularly in the USA material to the Group’s financial results. The Group has made
that there will be a return to growth as the impact of generics Paxil/Seroxat and Augmentin, with respect to which the Group
where the Group has its highest margins and most sales for any material provisions in 2002 and 2003 related to legal proceedings
diminishes and the underlying business strength shows through. now faces generic competition, and Wellbutrin SR, Zofran, Imitrex
country, the Group’s revenues and margins would be adversely and investigations which reduced its earnings. The Group may
and Avandia, with respect to which the Group is currently
GlaxoSmithKline is engaged in legal proceedings regarding validity affected. See Note 30 to the Financial statements, ‘Legal also make material provisions related to legal proceedings or
defending its intellectual property rights in the USA.
and infringement of the Group’s patents relating to many of its proceedings’ for a discussion of patent-related proceedings in investigations in the future, which would reduce its earnings. In
products; in particular those relating to Paxil/Seroxat and which the Group is involved. many cases the practice of the plaintiff bar is to claim damages – If these or any of the Group’s other major products were to
Wellbutrin. These are discussed in the risk factors below and compensatory, punitive and statutory – in amounts that bear no become subject to a problem such as loss of patent protection,
Generic drug manufacturers are seeking to market generic versions
in Note 30 to the Financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’. relationship to the underlying harm. Accordingly it is potentially unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting
of many of the Group’s most important products, including
misleading to quantify the potential exposure to claims, doctor or patient confidence or pressure from competitive
GlaxoSmithKline’s published earnings guidance for 2004 is to Wellbutrin, Seretide/Advair, Avandia, Imitrex, Valtrex, Lamictal and
proceedings and investigations of the type described in Note 30. products, or if a new, more effective treatment should be
deliver EPS (at constant exchange rates) at least in line with Zofran, prior to the expiration of the Group’s patents, and have
introduced, the impact on the Group’s revenues and operating
business performance EPS in 2003. As the impact of generics exhibited a readiness to do so for other products in the future. Recent insurance loss experience, including pharmaceutical
results could be significant. In particular, the Group faces intense
becomes less significant, the Group looks forward to a return Generic products competitive with Augmentin and Paxil were product liability exposures, has increased the cost of insurance
competition from manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical
to EPS growth in 2005. launched in the USA in 2002 and 2003, respectively, and had a coverage for pharmaceutical companies generally, including the
products in all of its major markets.
significant adverse impact on the Group’s overall sales and Group. In order to contain insurance costs in 2003 and 2004 the
The Group has net debt of £1.6 billion, which is low relative to
earnings. Group has adjusted its coverage profile, accepting a greater Generic products often enter the market upon expiration of
its market capitalisation and this positions it to take advantage of
degree of un-insured exposure. patents or data exclusivity periods for the Group’s products.
any opportunities that might arise to build the business. Following patent expiry, the ability of generic manufacturers to
Introduction of generic products typically leads to a dramatic loss
obtain regulatory approval for generic versions of the Group’s
There are risks and uncertainties inherent in the business which Product liability litigation of sales and reduces the Group’s revenues and margins for its
products is also relevant. For example, one manufacturer has
may affect future performance including expected earnings The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product liability proprietary products. The expiration dates for patents for the
indicated that it expects approval for a generic version of Flonase
growth. These are discussed in ‘Risk factors’ below. lawsuits, including class actions, that involve substantial claims for Group’s major products are set out on page 24.
following patent expiry in the USA in mid-2004. If approved a
damages related to the Group’s pharmaceutical products.
generic launch could adversely affect the Group’s sales and
Risk factors Governmental and payer controls
earnings. Litigation, particularly in the USA, is inherently unpredictable and
Pharmaceutical products are subject to price controls or pressures
There are risks and uncertainties relevant to the Group’s business. excessive verdicts that are not justified by the evidence can occur.
and other restrictions in many markets, including Japan, Germany,
The factors listed below are among those that the Group thinks Weakness of intellectual property protection in certain Class actions that sweep together all persons who were prescribed
France and Italy. Some governments intervene directly in setting
could cause the Group’s actual results to differ materially from countries the Group’s products can inflate the potential liability by the force
prices. In addition, in some markets major purchasers of
expected and historical results. In some of the countries in which the Group operates, patent of numbers. Claims for pain and suffering and punitive damages
pharmaceutical products (whether governmental agencies or
protection may be significantly weaker than in the USA or the are frequently asserted in product liability actions and, if allowed,
private health care providers) have the economic power to exert
Risk that R&D will not deliver commercially successful new European Union. In addition, in an effort to control public health can represent potentially open-ended exposure.
substantial pressure on prices or the terms of access to formularies.
products crises, some developing countries, such as South Africa and Brazil,
Continued development of commercially viable new products is have considered plans for substantial reductions in the scope of Anti-trust litigation The Group cannot predict whether existing controls will increase
critical to the Group’s ability to replace sales of older products that patent protection for pharmaceutical products. In particular, these In the USA it has become increasingly common that following an or new controls will be introduced that will reduce the Group’s
decline upon expiration of exclusive rights, and to increase overall countries could facilitate competition within their markets from adverse outcome in prosecution of patent infringement actions, margins or affect adversely its ability to introduce new products
sales. Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain generic manufacturers who would otherwise be unable to the defendants and direct and indirect purchasers and other payers profitably.
process. A new product candidate can fail at any stage of the introduce competing products for a number of years. Any loss of initiate anti-trust actions as well. Claims by direct and indirect
For example, in the USA, where the Group has its highest margins
process, and one or more late-stage product candidates could fail patent protection, including abrogation of patent rights or purchasers and other payers are typically filed as class actions and
and most sales for any country, pricing pressures could significantly
to receive regulatory approval compulsory licensing, is likely to affect adversely the Group’s the relief sought may include treble damage and restitution claims.
increase upon implementation of the pharmaceutical benefit under
operating results in those national markets but is not expected to
New product candidates may appear promising in development Medicare, or in the event that state programmes to control the
be material to the Group overall. Absence of adequate patent Governmental investigations
but, after significant investments, fail to reach the market or have cost of pharmaceuticals, are adopted. Once the Medicare
protection could limit the opportunity to look to such markets The Group is responding to federal and state governmental
only limited commercial success as a result of efficacy or safety programme initiates outpatient pharmaceutical coverage for its
for future sales growth. investigations in the USA into pricing, marketing and
concerns, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, beneficiaries, the US government, or the private insurers which will
reimbursement of a number of prescription drug products. These
difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, infringement of offer coverage, through their enormous purchasing power under
investigations could result in related restitution or civil false claims
patents or other intellectual property rights of others or inability the programme, could demand discounts that may implicitly create
act litigation on behalf of the federal or state governments and
to differentiate the product adequately from those with which it price controls on prescription drugs. Additionally, a number of
related proceedings initiated against GlaxoSmithKline by or on
competes. The successful development of the Group’s research states have proposed or implemented various schemes to control
behalf of consumers and private payers.
and development pipeline is of particular importance in light of prices for their own senior citizens’ drug programmes, including
the recent and anticipated expiration of patent or data exclusivity importation from other countries and bulk purchasing of drugs.
Risks of competition, price controls and limitations on sales
for a number of the Group’s largest selling products. The growth in the number of patients covered through large
Third party competition
managed care institutions in the USA, which would be likely to
The Group operates in highly competitive businesses. In the
increase with implementation of the Medicare amendments, also
pharmaceuticals business, it faces competition both from
increases pricing pressures on the Group’s products. These trends
proprietary products of large international manufacturers and
may adversely affect the Group’s revenues and margins from sales
producers of generic pharmaceuticals. Significant product
in the USA. Until the terms of implementation of the Medicare
innovations, technical advances or the intensification of price
pharmaceutical benefit have been finalised, it is not possible to
competition by competitors could adversely affect the Group’s
quantify the impact of that benefit on the Group’s financial results.
operating results.76 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects Operating and financial review and prospects GlaxoSmithKline 77
2002 Year
Regulatory controls Global political and economic conditions In accordance with US SEC disclosure requirements, the following Sales of Wellbutrin, for depression, grew 42 per cent to
The Group must comply with a broad range of regulatory controls The Group conducts a substantial portion of its operations outside discussion compares results for the year to 31st December 2002 £882 million, reflecting increased physician awareness of the
on the testing, approval, manufacturing and marketing of many the UK. Fluctuations in exchange rates between sterling and other with the results for the year to 31st December 2001. product’s outstanding efficacy and favourable side effect profile. In
of its pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products, currencies, especially the US dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen, 2002, an application for approval of a once-daily formulation,
All growth rates included in the review of turnover are at constant
particularly in the USA and countries of the European Union, that materially affect the Group’s financial results. Wellbutrin XL, was submitted to the FDA.
exchange rates (CER) unless otherwise stated. The sterling growth
affect not only the cost of product development but also the time
The Group has no control over changes in inflation and interest rates may be found in the table of pharmaceutical sales by GlaxoSmithKline’s medicine for epilepsy, Lamictal, continued
required to reach the market and the uncertainty of successfully
rates, foreign currency exchange rates and controls or other therapeutic area on page 78. to grow across all regions achieving sales of £438 million, up
doing so.
economic factors affecting its businesses or the possibility of 27 per cent. In 2002, the Group filed an sNDA for Lamictal seeking
Strict regulatory controls also heighten the risk of withdrawal by political unrest, legal and regulatory changes or nationalisation Exchange the first-ever indication for long-term management of depressive
regulators of an approval previously granted, which would reduce in jurisdictions in which the Group operates. These factors could episodes in bipolar disorder.
The currencies that most influence the Group’s results are the US
revenues and can result in product recalls and product liability materially affect the Group’s future results of operations.
Dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
lawsuits. In addition, in some cases the Group may voluntarily Respiratory
cease marketing a product (for example the withdrawal of Accounting standards The pound hit its highest level against the dollar for more than GlaxoSmithKline continued to be the global leader in respiratory
Lotronex shortly after its initial launch in the USA) or face declining New or revised accounting standards and rules promulgated from two-and-a-half years, climbing above $1.61 and the Euro gained pharmaceuticals with sales of its three key products ­
sales based on concerns about efficacy or safety, whether or not time to time by UK, US or International accounting standard- 17.7 per cent against the dollar in 2002, the first year that the Seretide/Advair, Flixotide/Flovent and Serevent - amounting to
scientifically justified, even in the absence of regulatory action. setting boards could have a material adverse impact on the dollar has fallen in value against the euro, as investors weighed nearly £3 billion, up 25 per cent.
Developments in the post-approval adverse event profile for a Group’s reported financial results. The Group believes that it up the impact of possible war in Iraq, tensions with North Korea
Sales of Seretide/Advair, GlaxoSmithKline’s second largest product,
product or the product class may have a major impact on the complies with the appropriate regulatory requirements concerning and fears for the US economy.
grew 96 per cent to £1.6 billion although this contributed to
marketing and sale of the product. its financial statements and disclosures. However, other companies
Pharmaceutical sales declines in Serevent and Flixotide, its constituent products. Advair
have experienced investigations into potential non-compliance
became the US asthma market leader in new prescriptions after
Concentration of sales to wholesalers with accounting and disclosure requirements that have resulted Total pharmaceutical sales in 2002 were £17,995 million compared
less than two years on the market. Seretide also continued to
In the USA, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the in significant penalties. to £17,205 million in 2001, an increase of eight per cent.
perform strongly in Europe, up 36 per cent, and International
Group sells its products through a small number of wholesalers Less than one per cent of this overall growth came from price
markets up 92 per cent. In December 2002, GlaxoSmithKline
in addition to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups. increases. Growth in sterling terms of five per cent was significantly
filed an NDA for Ariflo for COPD.
The Group is exposed to a concentration of credit risk to these impacted by the weakness of the US dollar and other currencies.
wholesalers that, if affected by financial difficulty, could materially
Within the Group’s portfolio, sales of new products, those Anti-virals
and adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
launched in a major market within the last five years, accounted HIV medicines grew across all regions and totalled £1.5 billion in
for 27 per cent of total sales and grew by 36 per cent to sales, up 13 per cent. Sales of Trizivir, GlaxoSmithKline’s triple
Environmental liabilities
£4,785 million. Sales of the more established, franchise products combination therapy, grew 95 per cent to £315 million.
The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual and
amounted to £9,772 million representing 54 per cent of total sales
potential obligations on the Group to remediate contaminated Valtrex, for herpes, continued to benefit from its convenient
and grew six per cent compared to last year. Sales of older
sites. The Group has also been identified as a potentially once-daily dosing for suppressive therapy and achieved strong
products, now less actively promoted, were £3,438 million, a
responsible party under the US Comprehensive Environmental sales growth of 26 per cent worldwide and 35 per cent in the
decline of 11 per cent representing 19 per cent of total sales.
Response Compensation and Liability Act at a number of sites for USA. In October 2002, GlaxoSmithKline filed an sNDA for Valtrex
remediation costs relating to the Group’s use or ownership of Global pharmaceutical sales in the fourth quarter of 2002 grew seeking the first-ever indication to reduce the risk of transmission
such sites. Failure to properly manage the environmental risks seven per cent, reflecting US sales growth of 14 per cent to of genital herpes. In December 2002, GlaxoSmithKline filed an
could result in additional remedial costs that could materially £2,592 million; whereas in Europe sales growth was weaker at NDA for ‘908’, a protease inhibitor, for the treatment of HIV. The
and adversely affect the Group’s operations. See Note 30 to the one per cent with sales of £1,272 million, and in International decline in Zovirax sales reflected transfers to the newer Valtrex
Financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’ for a discussion of sales were flat at £935 million. and generic competition.
environmental-related proceedings in which the Group is involved.
Pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area Anti-bacterials
Reliance on information technology Anti-bacterial sales declined 12 per cent worldwide and 22 per
Across the Group’s portfolio of products, six major therapeutic
The Group is increasingly dependent on information technology cent in the USA. Augmentin’s US sales were down 20 per cent
areas experienced good growth for the year, including the fast
systems, including internet based systems, for internal in the year as a result of generic competition that began in the
growing franchises: CNS (£4.5 billion) up 17 per cent, respiratory
communication as well as communication with customers and third quarter. Four generic versions of Augmentin have been
(£4.0 billion) up 16 per cent, anti-virals (£2.3 billion) up 12 per cent
suppliers. Any significant disruption of these systems, whether introduced in the USA following a decision by the US District
and vaccines (£1.1 billion) up 16 per cent.
due to computer viruses or other outside incursions, could Court for Eastern Virginia that held invalid GlaxoSmithKline’s
materially and adversely affect the Group’s operations. patents on Augmentin expiring in 2002, 2017 and 2018. US
Central nervous system
sales of Ceftin declined 80 per cent due to generic competition
Sales of Seroxat/Paxil, GlaxoSmithKline’s leading product for
Taxation which began during the first quarter, 2002.
depression and anxiety disorders, was the driver of growth in the
The effective tax rate on the Group’s earnings benefits from the
CNS therapy area, with sales of £2 billion, up 15 per cent globally
fact that a portion of its earnings is taxed at more favourable
and 18 per cent in the USA. International sales of Paxil grew
rates in some jurisdictions outside the United Kingdom. Changes
27 per cent to £267 million led by continued strong growth in
in tax laws or in their application with respect to matters, such as
Japan. Launched in April 2002, Paxil CR continued to gain
transfer pricing and the risk of double taxation, that relate to the
acceptance due to its strong tolerability profile.
portion of the Group’s earnings taxed at more favourable rates,
could increase the Group’s effective tax rate and adversely affect
its financial results. The Group is involved in a significant dispute
with the US Internal Revenue Service over transfer pricing. These
matters are discussed in Note 12 to the Financial statements,
‘Taxation’.78 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects Operating and financial review and prospects GlaxoSmithKline 79
Pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area 2002 Metabolic Sales in the anti-virals therapeutic area grew 18 per cent, led by
Worldwide sales for the metabolic category were £960 million. a strong performance of Trizivir, up 82 per cent, which partially
Total USA Europe International
The Avandia franchise (Avandia and Avandamet) grew 19 per cent drew sales from its constituent products, and Valtrex, up
Therapeutic area/ % of 2002 2001 Growth 2002 Growth 2002 Growth 2002 Growth for the year with US sales up 15 per cent to £688 million. 35 per cent.
major products total 0 500 1,0001,5002,0002,5003,0003,5004,000 £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
CNS 25 4,511 4,007 17 13 3,305 21 17 770 (2) (1) 436 19 11 Avandamet, a combination of Avandia and metformin HCI, Sales of Avandia increased by 15 per cent, benefiting from the
Depression 2,937 2,504 22 17 2,275 26 21 375 (2) (1) 287 26 17 expanded the Avandia metabolic franchise with its US launch in launch of Avandamet in November 2002. Anti-bacterial sales
Seroxat/Paxil 2,055 1,857 15 11 1,413 18 13 375 (2) (1) 267 27 18 the fourth quarter. Avandamet for the treatment of type 2 declined as Augmentin started to experience generic competition
Wellbutrin 882 647 42 36 862 43 37 - - - 20 19 5
diabetes is the first medicine that targets insulin resistance and in the second half of the year. In the cardiovascular franchise,
Migraine 888 849 8 5 670 11 6 161 (3) (2) 57 12 6 decreases glucose production in one convenient pill. Since its Coreg sales increased to £295 million reflecting improved market
Imigran/Imitrex 798 758 9 5 616 12 7 133 (3) (2) 49 11 4 approval by the FDA in May 1999, Avandia has been used by over share.
Naramig/Amerge 90 91 1 (1) 54 2 (2) 28 (3) (3) 8 17 14 four million patients worldwide.
Europe
Lamictal 438 355 27 23 247 44 38 151 7 9 40 18 8
Requip 89 75 21 19 47 39 31 38 4 6 4 23 33 Vaccines Europe region contributed 26 per cent of pharmaceutical sales.
Zyban 99 129 (21) (23) 47 (10) (13) 27 (36) (36) 25 (20) (24) Sales of vaccines grew 16 per cent to over £1 billion, supported Although overall sales growth in the region was only two per cent,
by the Hepatitis franchise, up 12 per cent to £483 million. Total good growth was recorded in several markets including Spain and
Respiratory 22 3,987 3,537 16 13 2,023 28 23 1,341 4 5 623 10 1
vaccine sales in Europe grew 17 per cent. US sales grew Central and Eastern Europe, but government healthcare reforms,
Flixotide/Flovent,
Serevent, Seretide/Advair 2,937 2,410 25 22 1,557 38 32 1,018 8 10 362 27 20 16 per cent from the launch of Twinrix and continued growth in including pricing and reimbursement restrictions, adversely
Seretide/Advair 1,631 850 96 92 876>100 >100 608 36 38 147 92 81 Havrix, driven by new state mandates requiring Hepatitis A affected sales in Italy.
Flixotide/Flovent 783 915 (12) (14) 387 (14) (18) 219 (18) (17) 177 3 (3) vaccination of school age children. Infanrix, GlaxoSmithKline’s
Serevent 523 645 (17) (19) 294 (20) (23) 191 (15) (15) 38 4 (3)
DTPa range of combination vaccines, grew eight per cent to International
Flixonase/Flonase 534 504 10 6 413 15 10 52 (6) (4) 69 (1) (9)
Ventolin 265 306 (10) (13) 8 (73) (72) 133 (2) (1) 124 (4) (13) £254 million. A four per cent sales growth in the International region reflected
Becotide 130 161 (18) (19) – – – 105 (15) (14) 25 (30) (36) a mixture of good growth in the Middle East and Africa, Canada
Cardiovascular and urogenital and Asia Pacific and a decline in sales in Latin America, principally
Anti-virals 13 2,299 2,128 12 8 1,213 18 13 636 7 8 450 6 (4)
In 2002, Coreg sales grew 27 per cent to £306 million, benefiting because of poor economic conditions in Mexico and Brazil. In
HIV 1,465 1,347 13 9 857 12 8 462 13 14 146 16 (1)
Trizivir 315 167 95 89 200 82 74 103 >100 >100 12 >100 >100 throughout the year from its new indication for the treatment of addition, Mexico suffered from a re-alignment of wholesaler stock
Combivir 588 606 1 (3) 338 (2) (6) 186 1 2 64 10 (3) severe heart failure. levels.
Epivir 295 302 1 (2) 164 6 2 94 (2) (1) 37 (11) (20)
Retrovir 50 55 (6) (9) 23 (2) (4) 17 (15) (15) 10 2 (9) In November 2002, Levitra (vardenafil) a new agent for the Overall International growth was driven by Seretide, Seroxat/Paxil,
Ziagen 173 167 10 4 101 7 3 53 2 4 19 51 6 treatment of erectile dysfunction, received a positive opinion from Avandia and vaccines, partly offset by declines in Zantac and
Agenerase 44 50 (8) (12) 31 (15) (18) 9 12 13 4 16 –
the European CPMP. The FDA issued an approvable letter for Zovirax.
Herpes 653 646 5 1 309 26 21 140 (12) (11) 204 (7) (13) Levitra in 2002. Levitra was researched and developed by Bayer AG
The Asia Pacific area grew due to the performance of Seretide
Valtrex 425 350 26 21 275 35 30 73 4 6 77 20 12 and will be co-promoted with GlaxoSmithKline.
Zovirax 228 296 (19) (23) 34 (17) (21) 67 (24) (24) 127 (18) (23) and vaccines. Strong growth in a number of markets was partly
offset by lower growth in the largest market, Australia, reflecting
Oncology and emesis
Zeffix 123 103 23 19 12 69 71 16 34 33 95 18 13 reduced sales of Zyban and Zantac.
Sales of Zofran grew 22 per cent to £708 million, driven by a
Anti-bacterials 12 2,210 2,604 (12) (15) 975 (22) (25) 696 (2) (1) 539 (4) (10) strong US performance, up 28 per cent to £525 million. The market growth in Japan reflected strong growth of Paxil and
Augmentin 1,191 1,421 (14) (16) 704 (20) (23) 315 (3) (2) 172 (3) (8) Flixotide/Flovent partly offset by the decline of the older product
Zinnat/Ceftin 243 409 (39) (41) 34 (80) (81) 117 (5) (5) 92 (8) (13)
Other therapeutic areas Zantac, and government price reductions.
Fortum 201 209 (1) (4) 37 (6) (10) 96 4 4 68 (5) (11)
Amoxil 136 149 (5) (9) 32 9 3 45 (12) (10) 59 (7) (13) Sales of Relafen for arthritis, fell reflecting generic competition in The Middle East and Africa area followed the trends of most other
the USA.
Metabolic 6 960 875 15 10 688 15 10 84 1 2 188 20 11 markets with growth in Seretide, Avandia, vaccines and HIV.
Avandia 809 707 19 14 688 15 10 42 31 31 79 65 52
Regional analysis In Canada growth was driven by Seretide, Paxil, Avandia and
Vaccines 6 1,080 948 16 14 290 16 11 468 17 18 322 15 11 anti-virals partly offset by lower sales of anti-bacterials.
USA
Hepatitis 483 445 12 9 211 18 13 204 10 11 68 2 (9)
Infanrix 254 238 8 7 79 14 10 117 – 1 58 18 16 The USA reported 13 per cent sales growth in the year and this Consumer Healthcare sales
business currently represents 54 per cent of total pharmaceutical
2002 2001 Growth
Oncology and emesis 5 977 838 21 17 740 26 21 152 5 7 85 8 – sales. Sales growth in the central nervous system products of £m £m CER% £%
Zofran 708 601 22 18 525 28 23 117 7 8 66 8 2 21 per cent was driven by Wellbutrin, reflecting increased OTC medicines 1,586 1,603 4 (1)
Hycamtin 94 90 7 4 63 10 5 24 3 4 7 (2) –
prescribing by primary care physicians and psychiatrists, and Paxil Analgesics 339 354 2 (4)
Cardiovascular and following the launch of the CR formulation in April 2002. Lamictal, Dermatological 188 190 5 (1)
urogenital 4 661 591 15 12 436 18 13 147 7 9 78 16 10 indicated for epilepsy, recorded sales growth of 44 per cent. Gastro-intestinal 312 342 (1) (9)
Coreg 306 251 27 22 295 27 22 – – – 11 27 22 Advair maintained its strong growth with sales of £876 million Respiratory tract 142 145 1 (2)
Other 7 1,310 1,677 (18) (22) 127 (56) (58) 407 (11) (12) 776 (9) (15) driving the overall respiratory sales growth of 28 per cent. Smoking control 378 337 16 12
Zantac 382 505 (21) (24) 86 (16) (19) 116 (30) (28) 180 (18) (24) However this adversely affected sales of its constituent products, Natural wellness support 162 158 5 3
Flovent and Serevent, which both showed declines. Flonase Oral care 1,052 1,106 (2) (5)
100 17,995 17,205 8 5 9,797 13 8 4,701 2 3 3,497 4 (3) indicated for the treatment of perennial rhinitis grew strongly by Nutritional healthcare 579 575 3 1
15 per cent.
3,217 3,284 2 (2)
* CER represents sales growth at constant exchange rates and £ at actual exchange rates. Certain products have been reclassified into different therapeutic areas for comparative purposes.80 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects Operating and financial review and prospects GlaxoSmithKline 81
OTC medicines Trading profit Profit on ordinary activities before taxation - statutory results Profit before taxation -business performance
Smoking control sales growth was driven by the performance of Statutory trading profit was £5,662 million with a growth of Taking into account net other operating expense in 2002 and net
The analysis and discussion below of profit before taxation relates
Nicoderm/Niquitin/Nicabate. In the USA Nicoderm grew strongly 26 per cent, stronger than sales growth of seven per cent, other operating income in 2001, the contribution from associates,
to business performance.
despite competition from private label and the launch of demonstrating an improved trading margin of 3.8 percentage business disposals and net interest payable, statutory profit before
competitor patches. The NiQuitin Lozenge, Commit, was points to 26.7 per cent compared with 2001. This was principally tax was £5,506 million, compared with £4,517 million in 2001, an 2002 2001
Other operating income/(expense) £m £m
launched in the USA, in November 2002. Clinical studies show due to cost savings derived from merger integration, increase of 28 per cent.
Royalties and other income 75 34
that Commit can help smokers who have tried to quit before. In manufacturing and other initiatives and lower costs of
Other operating expense (209) (126)
analgesics Panadol recorded good sales growth of five per cent implementing these initiatives. Trading profit – business performance
CER (two per cent sterling), partly offset by declines in a number (134) (92)
To illustrate GlaxoSmithKline’s business performance in 2002, the
of other brands. Abreva in the USA and Zovirax in Europe, both Profit before taxation - statutory results Income from equity investments and
analysis below of trading profit and the subsequent discussion
for the treatment of cold sores, drove dermatological sales other disposals 23 129
2002 2001 excludes merger items, integration and restructuring costs and the
growth of five per cent CER (one per cent sterling decline). In Other operating income/(expense) £m £m (111) 37
disposal of businesses. Management believes that exclusion of
gastro-intestinal, sales of Citrucel rose by 19 per cent CER (15 Royalties and other income 75 34
these items provides a better reflection of the way in which the
per cent sterling), but this was offset by declines in Tums and Other operating expense (209) (126) Other operating income/(expense) includes litigation costs and
business is managed. Accordingly this information is provided as a
Tagamet. provisions relating to legal claims on withdrawn products, product
(134) (92) supplement to that contained in the consolidated statement of
withdrawals and anti-trust matters, equity investment carrying
Income from equity investments and profit and loss on pages 88 and 89 prepared in accordance with
Oral care value adjustment arising from stock market price changes, royalty
other disposals 23 129 UK GAAP.
Oral care sales grew marginally in Europe but declined in the income, product disposals and equity investment sales. Other
highly competitive US market. Overall Oral care sales declined (111) 37 2002 2001 Growth operating expenses were £111 million in the year compared with
two per cent, principally as a result of reduced Aquafresh sales; £m % £m % CER% £% £37 million income in 2001. The year on year movement reflects
Other operating income/(expense) includes litigation costs and
although an increase in Sensodyne sales partially offset this. Sales 21,212 100.0 20,489 100.0 7 4 higher provisions in 2002 for product liability and other claims, and
provisions relating to legal claims on withdrawn products,
Cost of sales (4,243) (20.0) (4,430) (21.6) (2) (4) lower 2002 proceeds from disposals and equity investment sales.
product withdrawals and anti-trust matters, equity investment
Nutritional healthcare Selling, general
carrying value adjustments arising from stock market price
In Nutritional healthcare Lucozade and Ribena reported strong and administration (7,543) (35.5) (7,451) (36.4) 5 1 Profit on disposal of interest in associate
changes, royalty income, product disposals and equity
growth in Europe, driven by increased availability and promotion. Research and There were no disposals of interest in associates in 2002. In 2001
investment sales.
Horlicks sales declined primarily in International markets. development (2,732) (12.9) (2,555) (12.5) 9 7 the Group sold 1.5 million shares in Quest Diagnostics, Inc.
Other operating expenses were £111 million in the year realising a gain of £96 million.
Trading profit 6,694 31.6 6,053 29.5 15 11
Trading profit – statutory results compared with £37 million income in 2001. The year on year
movement reflects higher provisions in 2002 for product liability Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated
The analysis and discussion below relates to statutory Cost of sales
and other claims, and lower 2002 proceeds from disposals and undertakings
performance. Statutory results include merger items, integration Cost of sales reduced as a percentage of sales as a result of benefits
equity investment sales. The share of profits of associates arises principally from the Group’s
and restructuring costs, and the disposal of subsidiaries. arising from merger and manufacturing restructuring savings,
holding in Quest Diagnostics, Inc.
2002 2001 Growth Profit on disposal of interest in associate movements in stock provisions and a favourable regional mix.
2002 2001
£m % £m % CER% £% There were no disposals of interest in associates in 2002. In Net interest payable £m £m
Sales 21,212 100.0 20,489 100.0 7 4 2001 the Group sold 1.5 million shares in Quest Diagnostics, Inc. Selling, general and administration Interest payable (206) (198)
Selling, general and administration costs benefited from cost savings
Cost of sales (4,609) (21.7) (4,733) (23.1) – (3) realising a gain of £96 million. Investment income 73 129
arising from merger integration implementation and other cost saving
Selling, general (133) (69)
programmes including local restructuring in Europe and International
and administration (8,041) (37.9) (8,408) (41.1) (1) (4) Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated Share of interest payable of associate (8) (19)
regions.
Research and undertakings
(141) (88)
development (2,900) (13.7) (2,651) (12.9) 12 9 The share of profits of associates arises principally from the
Research and development
Group’s holding in Quest Diagnostics, Inc.
Trading profit 5,662 26.7 4,697 22.9 26 21 Research and development (R&D) increased nine per cent, Net interest payable increased compared with 2001 largely as a
reflecting increased clinical trial and in-licensing activity and the result of a higher average level of net debt driven by the use of cash
Cost of sales Disposal of business reinvestment of merger synergies. Pharmaceuticals R&D to fund the Group’s share buy-back programme. The benefit of a
Cost of sales reduced as a percentage of sales as a result of benefits The profit on product divestments and disposal of business in 2002 expenditure represented 14.6 per cent of pharmaceutical sales smaller number of shares in issue is reflected in earnings per share.
arising from merger and manufacturing restructuring savings, of £21 million reflects the final settlements regarding merger
in the year.
movements in stock provisions and a favourable regional mix. related product disposals and the disposal of the Healthcare Profit on ordinary activities before taxation -business
Services business in 1999.
Trading profit performance
S See ll ll inin gg
,
,
g
g ee nn ere ar la al na dn ad
d
a md inm isi tn ri as tt iora nt i co on
st s benefited from lower
Net interest payable 20 £0 m2 2 £0 m01 B gu ros win te hs s
o
p
f
e 1r 5fo prm era cn ec ne
t
,t r sa td roin ng
g
ep rr o thfi at nw sa as
l
e£ s6 g,6 ro9 w4 tm
h
i olli fo sn
e
vw ei nth a O path rte or fo tp he er a inti tn eg
re
i sn tc io nm ae n/ ( ae sx sp oe cn iase te), it no 2g 0et 0h 1e ,r rw edit uh
c
eth de
p
d rois fip to bsa yl of
merger integration costs, cost saving programmes from merger Interest payable (206) (198) per cent, demonstrating an improved trading margin of 2.1 £111 million in 2002, but added £133 million to profit in 2001.
integration implementation and other initiatives including local Investment income 73 129 percentage points to 31.6 per cent compared with 2001. This was Taking account of the contribution from associates and net interest
restructuring in Europe and International regions. (133) (69) principally due to cost savings derived from merger integration, payable, business performance profit before tax was £6,517 million,
Share of interest payable of associate (8) (19) manufacturing and other initiatives. compared with £6,169 million in 2001, an increase of 11 per cent.
Research and development
(141) (88)
Research and development (R&D) increased 12 per cent,
reflecting increased merger integration costs, higher clinical trial
and in-licensing activity and the reinvestment of merger
synergies. Pharmaceuticals R&D expenditure represented 15.5
per cent of pharmaceutical sales in the year.82 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects Operating and financial review and prospects GlaxoSmithKline 83
Selected financial data UK/US GAAP
Merger items, restructuring costs and disposal of businesses Earnings Growth Profit and loss account
2002 2001 CER% £% 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
Merger and integration items represent those items which have £m £m £m £m £m
Earnings (£m) 3,915 3,053 35 28
arisen as a result of the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Amounts in accordance with UK GAAP
Basic earnings per share 66.2p 50.3p 38 32
Beecham and the acquisition of Block Drug. Restructuring costs Turnover 21,441 21,212 20,489 18,079 16,796
Basic earnings per ADS $1.99 $1.45 38 32
arise from the merger and acquisition and from manufacturing Operating profit 6,392 5,551 4,734 4,729 4,343
restructuring programmes that had already been agreed by Glaxo Adjusted earnings (£m) 4,627 4,383 11 6 Profit before taxation 6,329 5,506 4,517 6,029 4,236
Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham before the date of the merger. Adjusted earnings per share 78.3p 72.3p 13 8 Earnings 4,484 3,915 3,053 4,106 3,077
These items by their nature are considered to be outside the Adjusted earnings per ADS $2.35 $2.08 13 8 Basic earnings per share 77.2p 66.2p 50.3p 67.7p 50.3p
normal business expenditure of GlaxoSmithKline and not expected Diluted earnings per share 77.0p 66.0p 49.9p 66.9p 49.9p
Weighted average number
to occur on a regular basis.
of shares (millions) 5,912 6,064 Weighted average number of shares in issue:
The key items in 2002 are discussed below. Basic 5,806 5,912 6,064 6,065 6,118
Adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share are presented
Diluted 5,824 5,934 6,116 6,134 6,171
Merger and manufacturing restructuring above in order to illustrate business performance which is the
Dividends per GlaxoSmithKline share (pence)
GlaxoSmithKline has made good progress with its merger and primary performance measure used by management. Adjusted
GlaxoSmithKline shareholder 41.0p 40.0p 39.0p
manufacturing restructuring plans and remains on track to deliver earnings increased by 11 per cent. Adjusted earnings per share
Glaxo Wellcome shareholder 38.0p 37.0p
forecast total annual merger and manufacturing restructuring increased 13 per cent, reflecting the reduction in the weighted
SmithKline Beecham shareholder 29.66p 26.69p
savings of £1.8 billion by 2003, excluding benefits from the Block average number of shares resulting from the Group’s share
Drug acquisition. The estimated cost of achieving this remains buy-back programme. The interest cost of this programme also Dividends are expressed in terms of a GlaxoSmithKline share.
around £3.8 billion, of which £3.4 billion had been charged by impacts the Group’s earnings.
Amounts in accordance with US GAAP
31st December 2002.
At actual rates of exchange business performance EPS increased Turnover 21,117 21,212 20,489 9,559 8,490
Costs of £972 million were incurred in the year in respect of eight per cent compared with 13 per cent in CER terms. The Net income/(loss) 2,420 413 (143) (5,228) 913
merger and manufacturing restructuring. After tax relief of adverse currency impact on EPS of five per cent in the year Basic net income/(loss) per share (pence) 41.7p 7.0p (2.4)p (145.6)p 25.2p
£249 million, the net charge was £723 million. The costs in 2002 reflected the significant weakening of the US dollar relative to Diluted net income/(loss) per share (pence) 41.6p 7.0p (2.4)p (145.6)p 25.1p
include severance, asset write-downs, professional fees and site 2001 and compares with a three per cent adverse currency impact
closure. on sales. This difference principally arises from a different mix of The information below presents US GAAP net income/(loss) and net income/(loss) per share as if the results for the years ended
currencies in profits compared with sales. 31st December 1999 to 2001 were adjusted to reverse the amortisation expense for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, that is,
Block Drug Company, Inc. as if SFAS 142 had also applied in those years.
Taken together with other expenses, taxation and product
GlaxoSmithKline acquired Block Drug in January 2001. The costs
divestments this resulted in EPS of 66.2 pence compared with Adjusted net income/(loss) 1,456 (4,658) 1,476
incurred in integrating this business were £60 million in 2002
50.3 pence in 2001 and a diluted EPS of 66.0 pence compared Adjusted basic net income/(loss) per share (pence) 24.0p (129.7)p 40.8p
including redundancies, asset write-downs and site closures.
with 49.9 pence in 2001. Merger and manufacturing restructuring Adjusted diluted net income/(loss) per share (pence) 23.8p (129.7)p 40.6p
costs were lower in 2002 than in 2001 and as a result, the sterling
Disposal of businesses
based growth in EPS of 32 per cent was significantly higher than
Balance sheet
The profit on disposal of businesses in 2002 of £21 million reflects
the CER based growth in business performance EPS despite the £m £m £m £m £m
the final settlements regarding merger related product disposals
overall negative impact of currencies in 2002. Amounts in accordance with UK GAAP
and the disposal of the Healthcare Services businesses in 1999.
Total assets 23,975 22,327 22,343 21,999 19,162
Taxation 2002 2001 Dividend Net assets 8,465 7,388 8,252 8,834 6,534
£m £m The Board declared a fourth interim dividend of 13 pence per Equity shareholders’ funds 7,720 6,581 7,390 7,590 5,391
share making a total for the year of 40 pence per share. This
Business performance (1,760) (1,655) Amounts in accordance with US GAAP
compares with a dividend of 39 pence per share for 2001.
Merger, restructuring and disposal Total assets 56,400 57,671 61,341 65,786 13,901
of subsidiaries 299 322 Net assets 34,861 35,729 40,969 46,239 7,281
Shareholders’ equity 34,116 34,922 40,107 44,995 7,230
Total (1,461) (1,333)
Exchange rates
The charge for taxation on business performance profit of
£1,760 million represents an effective tax rate of 27.0 per cent. As a guide to holders of ADRs, the following tables set out, for the periods indicated, information on the exchange rate of US dollars
This represents an increase compared with the effective rate for for sterling as reported by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (‘noon buying rate’).
2001 which was 26.8 per cent, as restated for the implementation
Average 1.63 1.51 1.44 1.51 1.61
of FRS 19 ‘Deferred Tax’.
The credit for taxation on merger and restructuring items The average rate for the year is calculated as the average of the noon buying rates on the last day of each month during the year.
amounting to £299 million reflects the estimated actual tax rate Feb Jan Dec Nov Oct Sept
2004 2004 2003 2003 2003 2003
applicable to the transactions in the territories in which they arise.
High 1.90 1.85 1.78 1.72 1.70 1.66
Low 1.82 1.79 1.72 1.67 1.66 1.57
The noon buying rate on 27th February 2004 was £1= US$1.86.84 GlaxoSmithKline GlaxoSmithKline 85
Financial statements
This section comprises the Directors’ statements of responsibility,
the Independent Auditors’ report on the Financial statements, the
Financial statements consisting of the principal Financial statements
and supporting notes.
86 Directors’ statements of responsibility
87 Independent Auditors’ report
Financial statements
88 Consolidated statement of profit and loss
88 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses
90 Consolidated statement of cash flow
92 Consolidated balance sheet
92 Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
93 Company balance sheet
Notes to the financial statements
94 1. Presentation of Financial statements
95 2. Accounting policies
97 3. New accounting policies and future requirements
97 4. Exchange rates
98 5. Merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
98 6. Segment information
100 7. Merger items, restructuring costs and divested businesses
101 8. Other operating income/(expense)
102 9. Operating profit
103 10. Joint ventures and associated undertakings
103 11. Net interest payable
103 12. Taxation
105 13. Earnings per share
105 14. Dividends
106 15. Goodwill
106 16. Other intangible assets
107 17. Tangible fixed assets
107 18. Fixed asset investments
108 19. Equity investments
108 20. Stocks
108 21. Debtors
108 22. Other creditors
109 23. Provisions for liabilities and charges
109 24. Contingent liabilities
110 25. Net debt
111 26. Commitments
112 27. Share capital and share premium account
112 28. Non-equity minority interests
113 29. Reserves
114 30. Legal proceedings
120 31. Acquisitions and disposals
122 32. Financial instruments and related disclosures
126 33. Employee costs
132 34. Employee share schemes
134 35. Related party transactions
135 36. Reconciliation to US accounting principles
146 37. Principal Group companies86 GlaxoSmithKline GlaxoSmithKline 87
Directors’ statements of responsibility Independent Auditors’ report
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
Directors’ statement of responsibility in relation to the Internal control We have audited the Financial statements which comprise the Basis of audit opinion
Financial statements consolidated statement of profit and loss, consolidated statement
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards
of total recognised gains and losses, consolidated statement of
The Directors are: assessment of risks and the internal control framework that issued by the United Kingdom Auditing Practices Board. An audit
cash flow, consolidated and company balance sheets and the
operates in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant
• responsible for ensuring the maintenance of proper accounting related notes, which have been prepared under the historical cost
of the system of internal control in operation in the Group for the to the amounts and disclosures in the Financial statements and
records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial convention and the accounting policies set out in the statement
year covered by this report and up to the date of its approval by the auditable part of the Directors’ remuneration report. It also
position of the Group at any time and from which financial of accounting policies. We have also audited the disclosures
the Board of Directors. includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements
statements can be prepared to comply with the Companies required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985
made by the Directors in the preparation of the Financial
Act 1985 contained in the Directors’ remuneration report (‘the auditable
The 1998 Combined Code statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate
part’).
• required by law to prepare financial statements for each to the company’s and Group’s circumstances, consistently applied
The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles
financial period which give a true and fair view of the state and adequately disclosed.
of the 1998 Combined Code, as described under ‘Corporate Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
of affairs of the company and the Group as at the end of
governance’ (pages 33 to 42), and has complied with the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
the financial period and of the profit or loss for that period The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report,
requirements of the 1998 Combined Code, with the exception information and explanations which we considered necessary in
the Directors’ remuneration report and the Financial statements in
• responsible also for ensuring the operation of systems of of the Senior Independent Director where the company’s position order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting
internal control and for taking reasonable steps to safeguard is described under Corporate governance and the provisions assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part
standards are set out in the statement of Directors’ responsibility.
the assets of the Group and for preventing and detecting relating to the Executive Directors’ service contracts and pension of the Directors’ remuneration report are free from material
fraud and other irregularities. arrangements, where the company’s position is described in the Our responsibility is to audit the Financial statements and the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or
Remuneration Report. auditable part of the Directors’ remuneration report in accordance error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall
The Financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2003,
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial
comprising principal statements and supporting notes, are set out As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority,
Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices statements.
in ‘Financial statements’ (pages 88 to 148 of this report). the auditors have considered the Directors’ statement of
Board. This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for
compliance in relation to those points of the 1998 Combined
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been and only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Opinion
Code which are specified for their review.
consistently applied in the preparation of the Financial statements, Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
In our opinion:
supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility
Annual Report
as necessary; applicable accounting standards have been followed, for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report • the Financial statements give a true and fair view of the state
and the Financial statements have been prepared on the going The Annual Report for the year ended 31st December 2003, is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly of affairs of the company and the Group at 31st December
concern basis. comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration Report, agreed by our prior consent in writing. 2003 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the
the Financial statements and additional information for investors, year then ended;
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the Financial We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial
has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its • the Financial statements have been properly prepared in
statements are set out in the Independent Auditors’ report statements give a true and fair view and whether the Financial
behalf by accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
(page 87 opposite). statements and the auditable part of the Directors’ remuneration
• those parts of the Remuneration Report required by Part 3 of
report have been properly prepared in accordance with the
The Financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2003 Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly
Companies Act 1985. We also report to you if, in our opinion,
are included in the Annual Report 2003, which is published in prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
the report of the Directors is not consistent with the Financial
hard-copy printed form and on the website. The Directors are
statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual
records, if we have not received all the information and
Report on the website in accordance with UK legislation governing
explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements. Access Sir Christopher Hogg
by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and transactions is not
to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable Chairman
disclosed.
legislation may be different. 3rd March 2004
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Directors’ remuneration and consider the implications for our report if we become aware Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Embankment Place
The Remuneration Report (pages 43 to 58 of this report) sets
Financial statements. The other information comprises only the London, England
out the remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and
Financial summary, description of business, unauditable part of the 3rd March 2004
disclosures on Directors’ remuneration and other disclosable
Directors’ remuneration report, the joint statement by the Chairman
information relating to Directors and officers and their interests.
and the Chief Executive Officer, the operating and financial review
It has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, and prospects and the corporate governance statement.
as amended by the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects
2003 and complies with Section B of the 1998 Combined Code.
the company’s compliance with the seven provisions of the
Combined Code issued in June 1998 specified for our review by
Going concern basis
the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable if it does not. We are not required to consider whether the Board’s
expectation that the Group and company have adequate resources statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. form an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s or Group’s
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis corporate governance procedures or its risk and control
in preparing the Financial statements. procedures.88 GlaxoSmithKline Consolidated statement of profit and loss GlaxoSmithKline 89
Consolidated statement of profit and loss
for the year ended 31st December 2003
2003 2002 2001
Merger, Merger, Merger,
restructuring restructuring restructuring
Business and disposal Business and disposal Business and disposal
performance of subsidiaries Statutory performance of subsidiaries Statutory performance of subsidiaries Statutory
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 6 21,441 – 21,441 21,212 – 21,212 20,489 – 20,489
Cost of sales (4,188) (356) (4,544) (4,243) (366) (4,609) (4,430) (303) (4,733)
Gross profit 17,253 (356) 16,897 16,969 (366) 16,603 16,059 (303) 15,756
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (7,563) (18) (7,581) (7,543) (498) (8,041) (7,451) (957) (8,408)
Research and development expenditure (2,770) (21) (2,791) (2,732) (168) (2,900) (2,555) (96) (2,651)
Trading profit 6,920 (395) 6,525 6,694 (1,032) 5,662 6,053 (1,356) 4,697
Other operating income/(expense) 8 (133) – (133) (111) – (111) 37 – 37
Operating profit 7,9 6,787 (395) 6,392 6,583 (1,032) 5,551 6,090 (1,356) 4,734
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 10 93 – 93 75 – 75 71 – 71
Profit on disposal of interest in associate 31 – – – – – – 96 – 96
Product divestments 7 – – – – 11 11 – – –
Profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses 7 – 5 5 – 1 0 1 0 – (29 6) (29 6)
Profit before interest 6,880 (390) 6,490 6,658 (1,011) 5,647 6,257 (1,652) 4,605
Net interest payable 11 (161) – (161) (141) – (141) (88) – (88)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 6,719 (390) 6,329 6,517 (1,011) 5,506 6,169 (1,652) 4,517
Taxation 7,12 (1,848) 109 (1,739) (1,760) 299 (1,461) (1,655) 322 (1,333)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 4,871 (281) 4,590 4,757 (712) 4,045 4,514 (1,330) 3,184
Equity minority interests (94) – (94) (110) – (110) (97) – (97)
Preference share dividends (12) – (12) (20) – (20) (34) – (34)
Earnings (Profit attributable to shareholders) 13 4,765 (281) 4,484 4,627 (712) 3,915 4,383 (1,330) 3,053
Basic earnings per share 13 – 77.2p – 66.2p – 50.3p
Adjusted earnings per share 13 82.1p – 78.3p – 72.3p –
Diluted earnings per share 13 – 77.0p – 66.0p – 49.9p
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,484 3,915 3,053
Dividends 14 (2,374) (2,346) (2,356)
Retained profit 2,110 1,569 697
.
Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses
for the year ended 31st December 2003
2003 2002 2001
£m £m £m
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,484 3,915 3,053
Exchange movements on overseas net assets 37 (154) (151)
Unrealised gains on equity investments 7 7 –
Tax on exchange movements and unrealised gains (69) (67) –
Total recognised gains and losses 4,459 3,701 2,90290 GlaxoSmithKline Consolidated statement of cash flow GlaxoSmithKline 91
Consolidated statement of cash flow
for the year ended 31st December 2003
Reconciliation of operating profit to operating cash flows 2003 2002 2001 Analysis of cash flows Notes 2003 2002 2001
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Operating profit 6,392 5,551 4,734 Returns on investment and servicing of finance
Depreciation 773 764 761 Interest received 65 83 134
Impairment and assets written off 250 288 178 Interest paid (197) (215) (196)
Amortisation of goodwill and intangible fixed assets 87 72 50 Dividends paid to minority shareholders (84) (85) (91)
Loss on sale of tangible fixed assets – 26 99 Dividends paid on preference shares (15) (20) (38)
Profit on sale of equity investments (89) (46) (118)
(231) (237) (191)
(Increase)/decrease in stocks (76) (2) 252
Increase in trade and other debtors (552) (72) (77) Capital expenditure and financial investment
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other creditors (69) 459 601 Purchase of tangible fixed assets (869) (1,044) (1,115)
Increase in provisions 260 256 144 Sale of tangible fixed assets 46 59 65
Other 29 (41) (93) Purchase of intangible assets (193) (182) (196)
Merger transaction costs paid – – (24) Sale of intangible assets – – 6
Net cash inflow from operating activities 7,005 7,255 6,507 Product divestments – (1) (30)
Purchase of own shares for employee share options and awards – – (795)
Proceeds from own shares for employee share options 26 58 194
Cash flow statement
Purchase of equity investments (63) (75) (47)
Sale of equity investments 125 65 139
Net cash inflow from operating activities 7,005 7,255 6,507
Dividends from joint ventures and associated undertakings 1 2 – (928) (1,120) (1,779)
Returns on investment and servicing of finance (231) (237) (191)
Acquisitions and disposals 31
Taxation paid (1,917) (1,633) (1,717)
Purchase of businesses (12) (21) (848)
Capital expenditure and financial investment (928) (1,120) (1,779)
Cash acquired with subsidiary – – 45
Acquisitions and disposals 31 (12) (20) (657)
Disposal of businesses 3 6 66
Equity dividends paid (2,333) (2,327) (2,325)
Investment in joint ventures and associated undertakings (3) (5) (44)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) before management of liquid resources and financing 1,585 1,920 (162)
Disposal of interests in associates – – 124
Management of liquid resources (1,336) 52 994
(12) (20) (657)
Financing (276) (1,567) (1,444)
(Decrease)/increase in cash in the year (27) 405 (612) Financing
Issue of share capital 27 41 56 144
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt Redemption of preference shares issued by a subsidiary – – (457)
Share capital purchased for cancellation (980) (2,220) (1,274)
Net debt at beginning of year (2,335) (2,101) (611) Other financing cash flows 82 135 144
(Decrease)/increase in cash in the year (27) 405 (612) Increase in long-term loans 1,046 1,094 973
Cash inflow/(outflow) from management of liquid resources 1,336 (52) (994) Repayment of long-term loans (23) (89) (112)
Net increase in long-term loans (1,023) (1,005) (861) Net repayment of short-term loans (442) (542) (860)
Net repayment of short-term loans 442 542 860 Net repayment of obligations under finance leases – (1) (2)
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases – 1 2 (276) (1,567) (1,444)
Net non-cash funds of subsidiary undertakings acquired – (4) 56
Exchange adjustments (37) (121) 59 Analysis of changes in net debt At 31.12.03 Cash flow Other Exchange At 1.1.03
Other non-cash movements (4) – – £m £m £m £m £m
Movement in net debt 687 (234) (1,490) Cash at bank 962 (54) – (36) 1,052
Overdrafts (155) 27 – 11 (193)
Net debt at end of year 25 (1,648) (2,335) (2,101)
807 (27) – (25) 859
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper (836) 449 (1) – (1,284)
Eurobonds and Medium-Term Notes (383) – (414) 31 –
Other (78) (7) – 3 (74)
(1,297) 442 (415) 34 (1,358)
Debt due after one year:
Eurobonds, Medium-Term Notes and private financing (3,617) (1,027) 411 53 (3,054)
Other (34) 4 – – (38)
(3,651) (1,023) 411 53 (3,092)
Management of liquid resources:
Liquid investments 2,493 1,336 – (99) 1,256
Net debt (1,648) 728 (4) (37) (2,335)
For further information on significant changes in net debt see Note 25 ‘Net debt’.92 GlaxoSmithKline GlaxoSmithKline 93
Consolidated balance sheet Company balance sheet
at 31st December 2003 at 31st December 2003
2003 2002
2003 2002 Notes £m £m
Notes £m £m
Shares in subsidiary companies – at cost 37 17,612 17,612
Goodwill 15 143 171
Fixed assets 17,612 17,612
Other intangible assets 16 1,697 1,637
1,840 1,808
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 2,969 1,412
Tangible assets 17 6,441 6,649
Taxation 52 66
Investments 18 3,069 3,121
Cash at bank 8 –
Fixed assets 11,350 11,578
Current assets 3,029 1,478
Equity investments 19 164 161 Dividends payable 14 (1,331) (1,289)
Stocks 20 2,109 2,080 Amounts owed to Group undertakings (8,578) (5,192)
Debtors 21 6,897 6,200
Creditors: amounts due within one year (9,909) (6,481)
Liquid investments 25 2,493 1,256
Net current liabilities (6,880) (5,003)
Cash at bank 25 962 1,052
Net assets 10,732 12,609
Current assets 12,625 10,749
Loans and overdrafts 25 (1,452) (1,551)
Capital and reserves
Other creditors 22 (7,145) (7,257)
Called up share capital 27 1,487 1,506
Creditors: amounts due within one year (8,597) (8,808)
Share premium account 27 264 224
Net current assets 4,028 1,941 Other reserves 29 76 56
Total assets less current liabilities 15,378 13,519 Profit and loss account 29 8,905 10,823
Loans 25 (3,651) (3,092) Equity shareholders’ funds 10,732 12,609
Other creditors 22 (232) (206)
Creditors: amounts due after one year (3,883) (3,298)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 23 (3,030) (2,833) Approved by the Board
Net assets 8,465 7,388
Sir Christopher Hogg
Capital and reserves Chairman
Called up share capital 27 1,487 1,506 3rd March 2004
Share premium account 27 264 224
Other reserves 29 1,925 1,905
Profit and loss account 29 4,044 2,946
Equity shareholders’ funds 7,720 6,581
Non-equity minority interests 28 503 559
Equity minority interests 242 248
Capital employed 8,465 7,388
Approved by the Board
Sir Christopher Hogg
Chairman
3rd March 2004
Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
for the year ended 31st December 2003
2003 2002
Notes £m £m
Equity shareholders’ funds at beginning of year 6,581 7,390
Total recognised gains and losses for the year 4,459 3,701
Dividends 14 (2,374) (2,346)
Share capital issued 41 56
Share capital purchased and cancelled (980) (2,220)
Exchange movements on goodwill written off to reserves (7) –
Equity shareholders’ funds at end of year 7,720 6,58194 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 95
Notes to the financial statements
1 Presentation of the Financial statements Additional information in accordance with the requirements of 2 Accounting policies Foreign currency transactions
US generally accepted accounting principles (US GAAP) is included Foreign currency transactions by Group companies are booked
Description of business Consolidation
in the Notes to the Financial statements. In Note 36 a statement in local currency at the exchange rate ruling on the date of
GlaxoSmithKline is a major global healthcare group which is The consolidated Financial statements include:
of differences, and reconciliations of net income and shareholders’ transaction, or at the forward rate if hedged by a forward
engaged in the creation and discovery, development, manufacture
equity, between UK and US GAAP are provided. • the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flow, of the exchange contract. Foreign currency assets and liabilities are
and marketing of pharmaceutical products, including vaccines,
company and its subsidiary undertakings, including Employee translated into local currency at rates of exchange ruling at the
over-the-counter (OTC) medicines and health-related consumer
Presentation of statement of profit and loss Share Ownership Trusts (ESOTs) balance sheet date, or at the forward rate. Exchange differences
products. GlaxoSmithKline’s principal pharmaceutical products
A columnar presentation has been adopted in the statement • the Group’s share of the net assets and results of joint ventures are included in trading profit.
include medicines in the following therapeutic areas:
of profit and loss in order to illustrate underlying business and associated undertakings.
central nervous system, respiratory, anti-virals, anti-bacterials,
performance as this is the primary measure used by management. Revenue
vaccines, oncology and emesis, metabolic, cardiovascular and The Financial statements of undertakings consolidated are made
For this purpose certain items are identified separately and are Revenue is recognised in the profit and loss account when goods
urogenital. up to 31st December.
excluded from business performance. These comprise: merger and are supplied to external customers against orders received. In
integration items, including product divestments; costs relating to Undertakings in which the Group has a material interest are certain limited cases, the customer collects the goods and revenue
Financial period
previously announced manufacturing and other restructuring, and accounted for as subsidiaries where the Group exercises dominant is recognised when title and risk of loss passes. Turnover represents
These Financial statements cover the financial year from
the effect of disposals of subsidiaries. Management believes that influence, as joint ventures where the Group exercises joint control net invoice value after the deduction of discounts given at the
1st January to 31st December 2003, with comparative figures for
exclusion of these items provides a better reflection of the way in and as associates where the Group can exercise significant point of sale, and accruals for estimated future rebates and
the financial years from 1st January to 31st December 2002 and
which the business is managed and gives an indication of the influence. returns. The methodology and assumptions used to estimate
1st January to 31st December 2001.
performance of the Group in terms of those elements of revenue rebates and returns are monitored regularly in the light of
Interests acquired in undertakings are consolidated from the
and expenditure which local management is able to influence. historical information and past experience. Turnover also includes
Composition of the Group effective date of acquisition and interests sold are consolidated
co-promotion income where the Group records its share of the
A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings which, in the Trading profit reflects turnover less: cost of sales, comprising up to the date of disposal.
revenue but with no related cost of sales. Value added tax and
opinion of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit costs of manufacture and external royalties; selling, general and
Transactions and balances between subsidiary undertakings are other sales taxes are excluded from revenue.
or the net assets of the Group is given in Principal Group administrative expenditure, comprising the costs of selling,
eliminated; no profit is taken on sales between subsidiary
companies, Note 37. distribution and medical support of currently marketed products
undertakings or sales to joint ventures and associated undertakings Expenditure
and the costs of administration; and the costs of research and
until the products are sold to customers outside the Group. Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
Composition of financial statements development to create future products for sale.
when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision is
The consolidated Financial statements are drawn up in accordance Goodwill arising on the acquisition of interests in subsidiary
made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a
with UK generally accepted accounting principles (UK GAAP) and Accounting convention undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings,
past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably
with UK accounting presentation. The Financial statements have been prepared using the historical representing the excess of the purchase consideration over the
estimated. Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged to
cost convention. Group’s share of the separable net assets acquired, is capitalised
The Financial statements comprise: the profit and loss account as incurred. Shipment costs on inter-
as a separate item in the case of subsidiary undertakings and as
company transfers are charged to cost of sales; distribution costs
• Consolidated statement of profit and loss Accounting standards part of the cost of investment in the case of joint ventures and
on sales to customers are included in selling, general and
• Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses The Financial statements comply with all applicable UK accounting associated undertakings. Goodwill is denominated in the currency
administrative expenditure. Restructuring costs are recognised in
• Consolidated statement of cash flow standards. in which the acquisition is made and financed. In the case of
respect of the direct expenditures of a business reorganisation
• Consolidated balance sheet acquisitions prior to 1998, goodwill was written off against
where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well advanced, and
• Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds Accounting principles and policies reserves; on a subsequent disposal of assets from such acquisitions,
where appropriate communication to those affected has been
• Company balance sheet The preparation of the Financial statements in conformity with any related goodwill is removed from consolidated reserves and
undertaken at the balance sheet date.
• Notes to the financial statements. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to charged to the consolidated profit and loss account.
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the The Group’s interests in its joint ventures are accounted for using Research and development
of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
profit and loss account of the company is not presented. the gross equity method. The Group’s interests in its associated Research and development expenditure is charged to the profit
liabilities at the date of the Financial statements and the reported
undertakings are accounted for using the equity method. and loss account in the period in which it is incurred. Tangible
The consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
fixed assets used for research and development are depreciated
includes: Actual results could differ from those estimates. Deferred taxation relief on unrealised intra-Group profit is
in accordance with the Group’s policy.
accounted for only to the extent that it is considered recoverable.
• the realised profit attributable to shareholders as reflected The Financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
in the consolidated statement of profit and loss the company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary and associated Environmental expenditure
• the unrealised gain or loss in the value of the Group’s described in Note 2. undertakings and joint ventures including related goodwill, are Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting
overseas net assets, less related foreign currency borrowings, translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance from past or current operations and from which no current or
attributable to currency movements over the period sheet date. The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiary and future benefit is discernible is charged to the profit and loss
• tax on the above items. associated undertakings and joint ventures are translated into account. The Group determines its liability on a site-by-site basis
sterling using average rates of exchange. Exchange adjustments and records a liability at the time when it is probable and can be
The reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
arising when the opening net assets and the profits for the year reasonably estimated. This liability includes the Group’s own
comprises the items contributing to the increase or decrease over
retained by overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings and portion of the costs and also a portion of other potentially
the period in shareholders’ funds. Such items include:
joint ventures are translated into sterling, less exchange differences responsible parties’ costs when it is probable that they will not be
• the total recognised gains and losses for the period arising on related foreign currency borrowings, are taken directly able to satisfy their respective shares of the clean-up obligation.
• dividends paid and proposed to reserves and reported in the statement of total recognised When recoveries of reimbursements are virtually certain they are
• the proceeds of shares issued during the period gains and losses. recorded as assets.
• the cost of shares purchased for cancellation under the
In translating into sterling, assets, liabilities, results and cash flows
share buy-back programme Pensions and post-retirement benefits
of overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint
• changes to goodwill, arising on acquisitions prior to The cost of providing pensions and other employee post-retirement
ventures reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies,
1st January 1998, which has been set directly against reserves. benefits is charged to the consolidated profit and loss account on a
adjustments are made to reflect current price levels. Any loss on
systematic and rational basis, based on actuarial assumptions, over
net monetary assets is charged to the consolidated profit and loss
the period during which benefit is derived from employees’ services.
account.
Any difference between this charge and the contributions paid is
included as an asset or liability in the consolidated balance sheet.96 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 97
2 Accounting policies continued Prior to 1998, acquired minor brands and similar intangibles were 2 Accounting policies continued Gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts designated as
eliminated in the Group balance sheet against reserves in the year hedges of forecast foreign exchange transactions are deferred and
Legal and other disputes Investments in joint ventures and associates
of acquisition. included in the measurement of the related foreign currency
Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs and legal Investments in joint ventures and associated undertakings are
transactions in the period they occur. Gains and losses on balance
and other expenses associated with claims received and legal and carried in the consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share
Tangible fixed assets sheet hedges are accrued and are taken directly to reserves, except
other disputes against the Group where a reasonable estimate can of their net assets at date of acquisition and of their post-
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less provisions for that forward premium/discounts are recognised as interest over the
be made of the likely outcome of the dispute. No provision is acquisition retained profits or losses together with any goodwill
depreciation or impairment. The costs of acquiring and developing life of the contracts.
made for unasserted claims or where an obligation exists under a arising on the acquisition, net of amortisation.
computer software for internal use and internet sites for external
dispute but it is not possible to make a reasonable estimate. Costs Interest differentials under interest swap agreements are recognised
use are capitalised as a tangible fixed asset where the software or
associated with claims made by the Group against third parties are Stocks in the profit and loss account by adjustment of interest expense
site supports a significant business system and the expenditure
charged to the profit and loss account as they are incurred. Stocks are included in the financial statements at the lower of cost over the life of the agreement.
leads to the creation of a durable asset.
(including manufacturing overheads, where appropriate) and net
Employee share plans Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of tangible fixed realisable value. Cost is generally determined on a first in, first Debt instruments
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under assets, excluding freehold land, in equal annual instalments over out basis. Debt instruments are stated at the amount of net proceeds
share option and share award schemes. In respect of award their expected useful lives. The normal expected useful lives of the adjusted to amortise the issue cost of debt evenly over the term
schemes and certain share option grants, the company provides major categories of tangible fixed assets are reviewed annually Taxation of the debt.
finance to ESOTs to purchase company shares on the open market and are: The Group accounts for taxation which is deferred or accelerated
to meet the company’s obligation to provide shares when by reason of timing differences which have originated but not 3 New accounting policies and future requirements
employees exercise their option or award; any excess of the Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years reversed by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are only
In December 2003 the Urgent Issues Task Force issued Abstract
purchase price of the shares above the exercise price of the options Leasehold land and The shorter of lease term and 50 recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable
38 and amended Abstract 17, both relating to the accounting for
and awards is charged to the profit and loss account over the buildings years against future taxable profits. Deferred tax on the retained
and presentation of ESOTs. These requirements are mandatory for
periods of service in respect of which the options and awards are Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years earnings of overseas subsidiaries is only provided when there is a
2004 reporting and will require the shares held by the ESOTs to
granted. In respect of other share option grants, share options Fixtures and equipment 3 to 10 years binding commitment to distribute past earnings in future periods.
be shown as a deduction in arriving at shareholders’ funds. The
when exercised are accounted for as share issues at exercise price. ERP systems software 7 years
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected charge to the profit and loss account for employee share options
Additional employer costs in respect of options and awards are Other computer software 3 to 5 years
to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are will be restricted to the intrinsic loss, the difference between the
charged to the profit and loss account over the periods of service.
ERP systems software generally involves significant customisation expected to reverse. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not market price and exercise price, at the date of grant.
Assets and liabilities of the ESOTs are included in the Group prior to implementation and is expected to have a useful economic discounted.
In June 2002, the Council of the European Union adopted a
balance sheet. Costs of running the ESOTs are charged to the profit life of seven years, rather than the maximum five years of other
Regulation requiring listed companies in its Member States to
and loss account. Shares held by the ESOTs are accounted for as computer software. On disposal of a tangible fixed asset, the cost Current asset investments
prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance with
fixed asset investments held at cost less a provision to recognise and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the Current asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and net
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) from 2005. The
any shortfall in the proceeds receivable from employees on exercise financial statements and the net amount, less any proceeds, is realisable value.
first GlaxoSmithKline Annual Report prepared under IFRS will be
unless there is deemed to be a permanent impairment in value. taken to the consolidated profit and loss account.
In the case of securities acquired at a significant premium or that for the year ending 31st December 2005. The first financial
discount to maturity value, and intended to be held to redemption, results announcement prepared in accordance with IFRS will be
Goodwill Leases
cost is adjusted to amortise the premium or discount over the life that for the first quarter of 2005.
Goodwill is stated at cost less a provision for amortisation. Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially all
to maturity of the security. Floating rate bonds are stated at cost.
Amortisation is calculated to write off the cost in equal annual the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as The Group’s project to convert its financial reporting from UK
Interest income is taken to the profit and loss account on a
instalments over its expected useful life. The useful life is not finance leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright. The GAAP to IFRS is progressing well. A training programme has been
receivable basis.
normally expected to exceed 20 years. assets are included in tangible fixed assets and the capital element rolled out to all finance staff worldwide and preparations for the
of the leasing commitments is shown as obligations under finance Equity investments are included as current assets when regarded collection of historical data, which will provide the comparative
Intangible fixed assets leases. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the as available for sale. information under IFRS in 2005, are well advanced.
Intangible assets are stated at cost less a provision for amortisation. shorter of the lease terms and the useful lives of the assets. The
interest element of the lease rental is charged against profit. Derivative financial instruments 4 Exchange rates
Acquired licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights are
All other leases are operating leases and the annual rentals are The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments
amortised over their estimated useful lives in equal instalments, The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during
charged against profit on a straight-line basis over the lease term. for trading purposes.
but no longer than 15 years. Items capitalised are restricted to the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas
those related to specific compounds or products which are being Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings into
Impairment of fixed assets
developed for commercial applications. The estimated useful lives market risks from treasury operations. The principal derivative sterling and period end rates to translate the net assets of those
The carrying values of fixed assets are reviewed for impairment
for determining the amortisation charge are reviewed annually, instruments are currency swaps, forward exchange contracts and undertakings. The currencies which most influence these
when there is an indication that the assets might be impaired.
and take into account the estimated time it takes to bring the interest rate swaps. The derivative contracts are treated from translations, and the relevant exchange rates, were:
Any provision for impairment is charged against profit in the year
compounds or products to market as marketable products. inception as an economic hedge of the underlying financial
concerned. First year impairment reviews are conducted for
Any development costs which are incurred by the Group and instrument, with matching accounting treatment and cash flows. 2003 2002 2001
acquired goodwill and intangible assets. Certain intangibles are
are associated with an acquired licence, patent, know-how or The derivative contracts have high correlation with the specific Average rates:
considered to have an indefinite life and are therefore not
marketing rights are written off to the profit and loss account financial instrument being hedged both at inception and £/US$ 1.64 1.50 1.44
amortised. Such intangibles are subject to annual impairment tests.
when incurred. throughout the hedge period. Derivative instruments no longer £/Euro 1.45 1.59 1.61
Impairment is determined by reference to the higher of net
designated as hedges are restated at market value and any future £/Yen 191.00 188.00 175.00
Brands are valued independently as part of the fair value of realisable value and value in use, which is measured by reference
changes in value are taken directly to the profit and loss account. Period end rates:
businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a to discounted future cash flows. The value of shares held by the
£/US$ 1.79 1.61 1.45
value which is substantial and long-term and where the brands ESOTs is reviewed quarterly to determine if there is any permanent Currency swaps and forward exchange contracts used to fix the
£/Euro 1.42 1.54 1.64
can be sold separately from the rest of the businesses acquired. impairment. value of the related asset or liability in the contract currency and £/Yen 192.00 192.00 190.00
Brands are amortised over the estimated useful lives but no longer at the contract rate are accrued to the profit and loss account
than 20 years, except where the end of the useful economic life over the life of the contract.
of the brand cannot be foreseen.98 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 99
5 Merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham 6 Segment information continued
The combination of Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc was treated as a merger at 27th December 2000 under UK GAAP.
2003 2002 2001
Under merger accounting, the shares issued by GlaxoSmithKline plc to acquire Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham were accounted Turnover by location of subsidiary undertaking £m £m £m
for at par and no share premium arose; the shares acquired by GlaxoSmithKline in Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham were similarly USA 10,569 11,096 10,517
accounted for at the nominal value of the shares issued. In the consolidated Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline, the results and net Europe 11,798 10,423 10,704
assets of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham were combined at their book amounts, subject to alignment adjustments. International 7,945 6,824 7,540
Turnover including inter-segment turnover 30,312 28,343 28,761
6 Segment information
USA (219) (168) (327)
An analysis of turnover, profit before taxation, total assets, net assets and tangible fixed assets by business and geographical sector are set Europe (4,690) (3,873) (4,372)
out below. The business sectors consist of Pharmaceuticals (prescription pharmaceuticals and vaccines) and Consumer Healthcare (oral care, International (3,962) (3,090) (3,573)
OTC medicines and nutritional healthcare). The geographical sectors reflect the Group’s most significant regional markets and are
Inter-segment turnover (8,871) (7,131) (8,272)
consistent with the Group’s regional market management reporting structure. Business sector data includes an allocation of corporate costs
to each sector. There are no sales between business sectors. USA 10,350 10,928 10,190
Europe 7,108 6,550 6,332
The Group’s activities are organised on a global basis. The geographical sector figures are therefore influenced by the location of the International 3,983 3,734 3,967
Group’s operating resources, in particular manufacturing and research, and by variations over time in intra-Group trading and funding
External turnover 21,441 21,212 20,489
arrangements.
Where the Group co-promotes a product and the third party records the sale, the Group records its share of revenue as co-promotion
Statutory profit before tax by location of subsidiary undertaking
income within turnover. The nature of co-promotion activities are such that the Group records no costs of sales. Pharmaceutical turnover
USA 1,984 2,117 934
includes co-promotion income of £35 million (2002 – £nil, 2001 – £nil).
Europe 3,061 2,490 2,580
International 1,347 944 1,220
2003 2002 2001 Operating profit 6,392 5,551 4,734
Turnover by business sector £m £m £m
Share of profits of joint ventures and associated undertakings 93 75 71
Pharmaceuticals 18,181 17,995 17,205
Profit on disposal of interest in associate – – 96
Consumer Healthcare 3,260 3,217 3,284
Profit on disposal of businesses 5 10 –
External turnover 21,441 21,212 20,489 Product divestments – 11 (296)
Net interest payable (161) (141) (88)
Statutory profit before tax by business sector Profit before taxation 6,329 5,506 4,517
Pharmaceuticals 5,800 5,068 4,302
Profit before taxation 6,329 5,506 4,517
Consumer Healthcare 592 483 432
Taxation (1,739) (1,461) (1,333)
Operating profit 6,392 5,551 4,734
Minority interests (94) (110) (97)
Share of profits of joint ventures and associated undertakings 93 75 71 Preference share dividends (12) (20) (34)
Profit on disposal of interest in associate – – 96
Statutory earnings 4,484 3,915 3,053
Profit on disposal of businesses 5 10 –
Product divestments – 11 (296)
Total assets by location of subsidiary undertaking
Net interest payable (161) (141) (88)
USA 4,416 4,455
Profit before taxation 6,329 5,506 4,517
Europe 13,106 12,614
Profit before taxation 6,329 5,506 4,517 International 2,998 2,950
Taxation (1,739) (1,461) (1,333) Total operating assets 20,520 20,019
Minority interests (94) (110) (97) Cash at bank and liquid investments 3,455 2,308
Preference share dividends (12) (20) (34)
Total assets 23,975 22,327
Statutory earnings 4,484 3,915 3,053
Net assets by location of subsidiary undertaking
Total assets by business sector
USA 515 376
Pharmaceuticals 19,015 18,608 Europe 7,552 7,298
Consumer Healthcare 4,960 3,719 International 2,046 2,049
Total assets 23,975 22,327 Net operating assets 10,113 9,723
Net debt (1,648) (2,335)
Net assets by business sector Net assets 8,465 7,388
Pharmaceuticals 6,954 5,720
Consumer Healthcare 1,511 1,668
Net assets 8,465 7,388100 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 101
6 Segment information continued 2003 2002 7 Merger items, restructuring costs and divested businesses continued
Plant,
Disposal of
Land and equipment Computer Assets in
Merger Restructuring Block Drug subsidiaries Total
Tangible fixed assets by location of subsidiary undertaking buildin £g ms and vehic £le ms softw £a mre construct £io mn To £t mal To £t mal 2003 £m £m £m £m £m
Manufacturing and other restructuring – (83) – – (83)
USA 668 375 50 202 1,295 1,412
Merger integration costs (286) – – – (286)
Europe 1,580 2,057 109 438 4,184 4,204
Block Drug integration costs – – (26) – (26)
International 510 341 11 100 962 1,033
Total 2,758 2,773 170 740 6,441 6,649 Effect on operating profit (286) (83) (26) – (395)
Profit on disposal of businesses – – – 5 5
2003 2002 2001 Effect on profit before tax (286) (83) (26) 5 (390)
Turnover by location of customer £m £m £m
USA 10,333 10,807 10,087 Effect on taxation – operating items 98
Europe 6,611 6,064 5,855 Effect on taxation – non-operating items 11
International 4,497 4,341 4,547
Effect on taxation 109
External turnover 21,441 21,212 20,489
Effect on earnings (281)
UK segment Disposal of
Merger Restructuring Block Drug subsidiaries Total
Information is given separately in respect of the UK, which, although included in the Group’s Europe market region, is considered the 2002 £m £m £m £m £m
Group’s home segment for the purposes of segmental reporting.
Manufacturing and other restructuring – (121) – – (121)
Merger integration costs (851) – – – (851)
2003 2002 2001
Block Drug integration costs – – (60) – (60)
£m £m £m
Turnover by location of customer 1,404 1,366 1,328 Effect on operating profit (851) (121) (60) – (1,032)
Product divestments 11 – – – 11
Turnover including inter-segment turnover 4,678 4,945 5,388
Profit on disposal of businesses – – – 10 10
Inter-segment turnover (2,883) (3,230) (3,753)
Effect on profit before tax (840) (121) (60) 10 (1,011)
Turnover by location of subsidiary 1,795 1,715 1,635
Effect on taxation – operating items 266
Operating profit 1,534 1,276 1,772
Effect on taxation – non-operating items 33
Total assets 9,889 8,846 Effect on taxation 299
Net operating assets 4,653 4,910 Effect on earnings (712)
Disposal of
7 Merger items, restructuring costs and divested businesses Merger Restructuring Block Drug subsidiaries Total
2001 £m £m £m £m £m
Manufacturing and other restructuring costs were incurred by GlaxoSmithKline during 2003, 2002 and 2001 in the implementation of
Manufacturing and other restructuring – (162) – – (162)
previously announced plans for restructuring of manufacturing and other activities.
Merger integration costs (1,069) – – – (1,069)
Merger integration costs relate to the integration of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham into a unified GlaxoSmithKline business. Block Drug integration costs – – (125) – (125)
These costs include consultancy fees in respect of integration planning, severance costs, asset write-offs, costs related to the early vesting
Effect on operating profit (1,069) (162) (125) – (1,356)
or lapse of performance conditions on share options and share incentive awards and costs of the programme to encourage staff to convert
Loss on disposal of businesses – – – (296) (296)
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham share options into GlaxoSmithKline share options. Integration costs were incurred in 2003, 2002
Effect on profit before tax (1,069) (162) (125) (296) (1,652)
and 2001 relating to the integration of the Block Drug businesses. These costs include professional fees, severance costs and asset write-offs.
Product divestment income arising in 2002 related to the finalisation of the disposals of Famvir, Kytril and other products required in 2000 Effect on taxation – operating items 355
in order to obtain regulatory approval for the merger. Effect on taxation – non-operating items (33)
Effect on taxation 322
The disposal of businesses in 2003 and 2002 related to the finalisation of the disposals of Clinical Laboratories and Healthcare Services in
1999. The disposal of businesses in 2001 primarily arose on the sale of Affymax. It included a £299 million write off of goodwill which was Effect on earnings (1,330)
previously eliminated against Group reserves.
8 Other operating income/(expense)
2003 2002 2001
£m £m £m
Royalties and other income 75 75 34
Other operating expense (436) (209) (126)
(361) (134) (92)
Income from equity investments and other disposals 228 23 129
(133) (111) 37
Royalties and other income is principally a core of recurring income in the form of royalties from the out-licensing of intellectual property.
Other operating expense includes litigation costs and provisions relating to legal claims on withdrawn products, product withdrawals and
anti-trust matters. Income from equity investments and other disposals includes equity investment carrying value adjustments arising from
stock market changes, product disposals and equity investment sales.102 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 103
9 Operating profit 2003 2002 2001 11 Net interest payable 2003 2002 2001
£m £m £m £m £m £m
The following items have been charged in operating profit: Interest payable
Employee costs (Note 33) 5,058 4,940 4,686 On bank loans and overdrafts (6) (6) (26)
Advertising 615 688 696 On other loans (186) (198) (169)
Distribution costs 284 281 272 In respect of finance leases (2) (2) (3)
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets: Unwinding of discount on provisions (20) – –
Owned assets 771 760 758 (214) (206) (198)
Leased assets 2 4 3 Share of interest payable of associate (8) (8) (19)
Amortisation of goodwill 13 12 10
(222) (214) (217)
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets 74 60 40
Exchange losses on foreign currency deposits/loans (1) – – Investment income
Operating lease rentals: Interest income 58 71 129
Plant 90 50 41 Realised gains – 2 –
Land and buildings 62 61 70 Unwinding of discount on assets 3 – –
Audit fees 6.9 6.1 7.2 61 73 129
Fees to auditors for other work:
(161) (141) (88)
Auditors’ UK firm 1.7 5.2 13.1
Auditors’ overseas firms 5.9 9.6 22.6
Analysis of fees to auditors for other work: 12 Taxation
Further assurance (audit-related) services 2.6 1.8
2003 2002 2001
Tax services 4.6 4.9 Taxation charge based on profits for the period £m £m £m
Merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham – 6.0 UK corporation tax at the UK statutory rate 673 479 838
Other services 0.4 2.1 Less double taxation relief (290) (117) (351)
383 362 487
Included within audit fees above is a fee of £10,000 (2002 – £10,000, 2001 – £10,000) relating to the company audit of
Overseas taxation 1,578 1,036 876
GlaxoSmithKline plc. Included in further assurance services in 2003 are amounts related to the Group’s preparation for the adoption
Deferred taxation (262) 29 (53)
of International Financial Reporting Standards and preparation for section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002. Tax services relates
to fees paid for corporate tax compliance, tax planning and advice. Other services include human resources advisory, compliance and 1,699 1,427 1,310
treasury related services. Included within fees to auditors for other work in 2002 is £6.0 million paid to the auditor’s management Share of taxation charge of associates 40 34 23
consulting practice, which was sold by them in 2002. 1,739 1,461 1,333
In 2003, the Group has started to apply discounting to certain long-term assets and liabilities, using risk-free rates of return.
2003 2002 2001
Reconciliation of the current taxation rate on Group profits % % %
10 Joint ventures and associated undertakings
2003 2002 2001 UK statutory rate of taxation 30.0 30.0 30.0
£m £m £m
Overseas taxes 0.1 0.1 (1.1)
Associated undertakings:
Average Group tax rate 30.1 30.1 28.9
Share of profits of Quest Diagnostics Inc. 102 94 79
Effect of special tax status in manufacturing locations (3.9) (3.9) (3.7)
Share of losses of other associated undertakings (3) – (1)
Share option deductions in the USA (0.1) (0.2) (1.1)
Amortisation of goodwill (6) (6) (7)
Merger and restructuring costs (0.1) 0.7 5.4
93 88 71 R&D credits (1.1) (1.2) (0.9)
Share of losses of joint ventures – (13) – Other permanent differences 1.1 (0.8) (0.4)
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation (0.3) (0.5) –
93 75 71
Intra-Group profit (0.1) 1.3 1.3
Reversing timing differences on tax losses – – (2.5)
Share of turnover of joint ventures 31 29 28
Other timing differences 3.9 2.3 3.9
Sales to joint ventures and associated undertakings 51 49 52 Prior year items 1.5 (2.4) (0.7)
Current tax rate on ordinary activities 31.0 25.4 30.2
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 0.3 0.5 –
Intra-Group profit 0.1 (1.3) (1.3)
Reversing timing differences on tax losses – – 2.5
Other timing differences (3.9) (2.3) (3.9)
Share of taxation charge of associates 0.6 0.6 0.5
Prior year items (0.6) 3.6 1.5
Tax rate on ordinary activities 27.5 26.5 29.5
The Group operates in countries where the tax rate differs from the UK tax rate. The average Group tax rate has been determined by
aggregating the local standard tax rates and weighting these in proportion to accounting profits. Profits arising from manufacturing
operations in Singapore, Puerto Rico and Ireland are taxed at reduced rates. The effect of this reduction in the taxation charge increased
earnings per share by 4.2p in 2003, 3.6p in 2002 and by 2.7p in 2001.104 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 105
12 Taxation continued 13 Earnings per share
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations, involving significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at a 2003 2002 2001
p p p
limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets, gives rise to complexity and delay
in negotiations with revenue authorities as to the profits on which individual Group companies are liable to tax. Disagreements with, and Basic earnings per share 77.2 66.2 50.3
between, revenue authorities as to intra-Group transactions, in particular the price at which goods should be transferred between Group Adjustment for merger items, restructuring costs and disposal of subsidiaries:
companies in different tax jurisdictions, can produce conflicting claims from revenue authorities as to the profits that fall to be taxed in Merger integration and transaction costs 3.8 10.8 13.0
individual territories. Resolution of such issues is a continuing fact of life for GlaxoSmithKline. The Group has open issues with the revenue Restructuring costs 1.0 1.5 2.0
authorities in the USA, UK, Japan and Canada, but by far the largest relates to Glaxo heritage products in the USA. Block Drug integration costs 0.3 0.7 1.6
Disposal of businesses (0.2) (0.9) 5.4
GlaxoSmithKline has attempted to settle the US dispute, first through direct discussion with the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and
Adjusted earnings per share 82.1 78.3 72.3
subsequently through discussions between the US and UK authorities under the terms of the double tax convention between the two
countries. GlaxoSmithKline understands that the views of the two tax authorities were so different that they were unable to reach Diluted earnings per share 77.0 66.0 49.9
agreement, and discussions were terminated in July 2003.
Basic and adjusted earnings per share have been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average
The Group has now received a claim for additional taxes that the IRS asserts legacy company Glaxo Wellcome owes for the years 1989 to
number of shares in issue during the period. The numbers used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciled below.
1996. This statutory notice of deficiency for $2.7 billion (£1.5 billion) in tax principally relates to the allocation of profits for Glaxo heritage
products between the USA and other countries. To the extent that the IRS were successful in its claim, interest would be payable. Adjusted earnings per share is calculated using business performance earnings. Business performance, which is the primary performance
GlaxoSmithKline estimates the interest on the full claim to date would be approximately $2.5 billion (£1.4 billion), net of federal tax relief. measure used by management, is presented after excluding merger items, integration and restructuring costs and the disposal of businesses.
As similar tax issues remain open for 1997 to date, GlaxoSmithKline expects to receive further claims by the IRS for these years. Management believes that exclusion of these items provides a better reflection of the way in which the business is managed and gives an
indication of the performance of the Group in terms of those elements of revenue and expenditure which local management is able to
Since GlaxoSmithKline has exhausted all administrative remedies open to it, the Group plans to contest this claim for additional taxes
influence. This information, which is provided in addition to the statutory results prepared under UK GAAP, is given to assist shareholders
by filing a petition in the US Tax Court, where a trial is not expected until sometime in 2005 or 2006.
to gain a clearer understanding of the underlying performance of the business and to increase comparability for the periods presented.
GlaxoSmithKline continues to believe that the profits reported by its US subsidiaries for the period 1989 to date, on which it has paid taxes
in the USA, are more than sufficient to reflect the activities of its US operations. Net profit for the period attributable to shareholders £m £m £m
Earnings – basic and diluted 4,484 3,915 3,053
GlaxoSmithKline uses the best advice in determining its transfer pricing methodology and in seeking to manage transfer pricing issues to
Adjustments for merger items, restructuring costs and disposal of subsidiaries 281 712 1,330
a satisfactory conclusion and, on the basis of external professional advice, continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the
liabilities likely to arise from open assessments. However, there continues to be a wide difference of views between the Group and the IRS. Adjusted earnings 4,765 4,627 4,383
The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings and
negotiations with the relevant tax authorities.
Weighted average number of shares in issue millions millions millions
Except as shown in these Financial statements, no provision has been made for taxation which would arise on the distribution of profits
Basic and adjusted 5,806 5,912 6,064
retained by overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings, on the grounds that no remittance of profit retained at 31st December 2003
Dilution for share options 18 22 52
is required in such a way that incremental tax will arise.
Diluted 5,824 5,934 6,116
At 31st December 2003, the Group had income tax losses of approximately £225 million (2002 – £69 million) and capital losses estimated
to be in excess of £10 billion (2002 – in excess of £9 billion) which are not recognised as deferred tax assets because there is insufficient Shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trusts (ESOTs) are excluded. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares
evidence that these losses will be used. held by the ESOTs.
Current Deferred Deferred
tax creditor tax debtor tax provision 14 Dividends 2003 2002 2001
Tax balances £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2003 (1,449) 1,373 (742) First interim 524 535 546
Exchange adjustments 112 (64) (11) Second interim 522 530 546
Charge to profit and loss account (1,961) 122 140 Third interim 520 527 546
Cash paid 1,917 – – Fourth interim 808 754 718
Other movements (77) 10 7
2,374 2,346 2,356
At 31st December 2003 (1,458) 1,441 (606)
2003 2002 2001
Dividends per share p p p
2003 2002
Deferred taxation asset/(liability) £m £m First interim 9 9 9
Accelerated capital allowances (689) (710) Second interim 9 9 9
Stock valuation adjustment (52) (113) Third interim 9 9 9
Intra-Group profit 485 487 Fourth interim 14 13 12
Product and business disposals (59) (125) 41 40 39
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 113 190
Tax losses 94 93
Legal and other disputes 167 124
Merger integration and manufacturing restructuring 157 204
Other net timing differences 619 481
835 631
Deferred taxation provided on stock valuation adjustments, intra-Group profit and other timing differences shown above are current. All
deferred taxation movements arise from the origination and reversal of timing differences. Other net timing differences include accrued
expenses and other provisions.106 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 107
Plant,
Land and equipment Computer Assets in
15 Goodwill Total 17 Tangible fixed assets buildings and vehicles software construction Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost at 1st January 2003 216 Cost at 1st January 2003 4,310 6,714 332 1,027 12,383
Exchange adjustments (23) Exchange adjustments (63) (66) (3) (46) (178)
Additions (Note 31) 2 Additions 45 213 11 601 870
Disposals (168) (471) (3) (29) (671)
Cost at 31st December 2003 195
Reclassifications (125) 816 94 (785) –
Amortisation at 1st January 2003 (45) Cost at 31st December 2003 3,999 7,206 431 768 12,404
Exchange adjustments 6
Provision for the year (13) Depreciation at 1st January 2003 (1,258) (3,950) (172) – (5,380)
Exchange adjustments 23 70 1 – 94
Amortisation at 31st December 2003 (52)
Provision for the year (121) (583) (69) – (773)
Net book value at 1st January 2003 171 Disposals 86 345 1 – 432
Reclassifications 158 (158) – – –
Net book value at 31st December 2003 143
Depreciation at 31st December 2003 (1,112) (4,276) (239) – (5,627)
Impairment at 1st January 2003 (148) (182) – (24) (354)
Licences, Exchange 3 2 – – 5
16 Other intangible assets patents, etc. Brands Total
£m £m £m Impairment loss (19) (24) (22) (4) (69)
Cost at 1st January 2003 712 1,162 1,874 Disposals 35 47 – – 82
Exchange adjustments (29) 7 (22) Impairment at 31st December 2003 (129) (157) (22) (28) (336)
Additions 193 – 193
Assets written off (38) – (38) Total depreciation and impairment at 31st December 2003 (1,241) (4,433) (261) (28) (5,963)
Cost at 31st December 2003 838 1,169 2,007 Net book value at 1st January 2003 2,904 2,582 160 1,003 6,649
Net book value at 31st December 2003 2,758 2,773 170 740 6,441
Amortisation at 1st January 2003 (162) – (162)
Exchange adjustments 5 – 5 The net book value at 31st December 2003 of the Group’s land and buildings comprises freehold properties £2,532 million
Provision for the year (74) – (74) (at 1st January 2003 – £2,699 million), properties with leases of 50 years or more £182 million (at 1st January 2003 – £135 million) and
Assets written off 2 – 2 properties with leases of less than 50 years £44 million (at 1st January 2003 – £70 million). Included in plant, equipment and vehicles at
Amortisation at 31st December 2003 (229) – (229) 31st December 2003 are leased assets with a cost of £3 million (at 1st January 2003 – £6 million), accumulated depreciation of £2 million
(at 1st January 2003 – £4 million) and a net book value of £1million (at 1st January 2003 – £2 million).
Impairment at 1st January 2003 (53) (22) (75)
The impairment loss principally arises from decisions to rationalise facilities and is calculated based on either net realisable value or value
Exchange adjustments (3) 2 (1)
in use, typically using, which has been recorded in SG&A, a discount rate of eight per cent.
Impairment loss (8) (3) (11)
Assets written off 6 – 6 Joint Associated Equity Own
18 Fixed asset investments ventures undertakings investments shares Total
Impairment at 31st December 2003 (58) (23) (81)
£m £m £m £m £m
Total amortisation and impairment at 31st December 2003 (287) (23) (310) At 1st January 2003 17 153 125 2,826 3,121
Exchange adjustments (2) (17) (9) – (28)
Net book value at 1st January 2003 497 1,140 1,637
Additions – 4 33 – 37
Charge for the year – – – (25) (25)
Net book value at 31st December 2003 551 1,146 1,697
Impairment – – (32) – (32)
The licences and patents acquired in the year relate to the acquisition of various compound rights and other research based agreements Transfers – 1 5 ( 15) – –
(see Note 26). Disposals (2) – (4) (26) (32)
Retained profit for the year – 3 4 – – 34
Brands largely comprise a portfolio of products acquired with the acquisition of Sterling Winthrop Inc. in 1994, such as Panadol, Solpadeine
Goodwill amortisation – (6) – – (6)
and Hedex, and the products acquired with the acquisition of The Block Drug Company in 2001, such as Sensodyne, Polident and Poligrip.
At 31st December 2003 13 183 98 2,775 3,069
Each of these is considered to have an indefinite life given the strength and durability of the brand and the level of marketing support.
Accordingly, they are not amortised. The valuation of each Sterling brand is reviewed annually using a 10 year cash flow forecast as this
Investments in joint ventures comprise £15 million share of gross assets (2002 – £19 million) and £2 million share of gross liabilities (2002 – £2 million).
was the basis for the original independent assessment when they were acquired in 1994 and a post-tax discount rate of eight per cent.
The valuation of each Block Drug brand is also reviewed annually using a five year cash flow forecast and a post-tax discount rate of The principal associated undertaking is Quest Diagnostics, Inc., a US clinical laboratory business listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
eight per cent. The investment has a book value at 31st December 2003 of £158 million (2002 – £129 million) and a market value of £904 million
(2002 – £782 million). At 31st December 2003, the Group owned 21 per cent of Quest (2002 – 23 per cent). The book value includes
goodwill which is being amortised over 20 years; the amortisation charge for 2003 was £6 million. The goodwill at 31st December 2003
amounts to £85 million (2002 – £101 million). Goodwill of £103 million which relates to the continuing Group interest in Clinical
Laboratories assets attributed to Quest, remains eliminated against Group reserves. Equity investments comprise listed investments of
£7 million (2002 – £7 million) and unlisted investments of £91 million (2002 – £118 million). The market value of listed investments at
31st December 2003 was £9 million (2002 – £11 million). Investments in own shares consist of shares held by Employee Share Ownership
Trusts (see Note 34). The market value of own shares at 31st December 2003 was £2,276 million (2002 – £2,161 million). This valuation
shortfall is not considered to represent a permanent diminution in value in the context of the length of the future period over which the
related share options may be exercised. Accordingly no provision has been made.108 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 109
19 Equity investments 23 Provisions for Pensions and other Legal
post-retirement Manufacturing Merger and other Deferred Other
Total liabilities and charges benefits restructuring integration disputes taxation provisions Total
£m
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2003 161
At 1st January 2003 921 103 403 507 742 157 2,833
Exchange adjustments (9)
Exchange adjustments (48) (4) (5) (74) 11 (4) (124)
Additions 37
Charge for the year 239 49 76 570 (140) 148 942
Impairments 7
Unwinding of discount – – 7 12 – 1 20
Disposals (32)
Applied (305) (49) (184) (239) – (42) (819)
At 31st December 2003 164 Reclassifications and other movements – – 8 231 (7) (54) 178
At 31st December 2003 807 99 305 1,007 606 206 3,030
Equity investments include listed investments of £111 million (2002 – £125 million). The market value of listed investments was
£184 million (2002 – £232 million).
During 2003, the Group made special cash contributions totalling £368 million into the UK and US pension schemes. The contribution
relating to the US pension scheme is included within the amounts applied to the provision above; the contributions relating to the UK
pension scheme have increased the pension prepayment amount shown under debtors in Note 21.
20 Stocks 2003 2002
£m £m The Group has recognised costs in 2003 in respect of plans for manufacturing and other restructuring initiated in 1998, 1999 and in 2001
Raw materials and consumables 636 508 following the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham and acquisition of Block Drug. These plans are largely completed. Costs
Work in progress 474 673 recognised as a provision, principally in respect of identified severances at sites where it has been announced that manufacturing activities
Finished goods 999 899 will cease, are expected to be incurred mainly in 2004. Costs of asset write-downs have been recognised as an impairment of fixed assets.
2,109 2,080 The Group has recognised costs in 2003, 2002 and 2001 in respect of plans for the integration of the Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline
Beecham businesses. Implementation of the integration following the merger is substantially complete. Costs recognised as a provision in
respect of identified severances are expected to be incurred in 2004 and in respect of the programme to encourage staff to convert Glaxo
Wellcome or SmithKline Beecham share options into GlaxoSmithKline share options when employees exercise these options up to 2010.
21 Debtors
2003 2002 This latter provision was discounted by £28 million in 2003 using risk-free rates of return.
£m £m
Provisions for legal and other disputes and other matters include amounts relating to US anti-trust, product liability, contract terminations,
Amounts due within one year
self-insurance, environmental clean-up and property rental. The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have established provisions
Trade debtors 3,715 3,515
after taking into account insurance and other agreements and having regard to the relevant facts and circumstances of each matter and
Other debtors 532 569
in accordance with accounting requirements. These provisions were discounted by £25 million in 2003 using risk-free rates of return.
Prepaid pension contributions 440 257
Reclassifications include amounts receivable under insurance contracts which are now shown within Other debtors in Note 21. No
Other prepayments and accrued income 247 178
provisions have been made for unasserted claims. The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is
Amounts due after one year
dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
Other debtors 512 294
Prepayments and accrued income 10 14 GlaxoSmithKline is involved in a number of legal and other disputes (including notification of possible claims) where, because of the early
Deferred taxation (Note 12) 1,441 1,373 stage of the matter, no reliable estimate of the outcome can be made. Accordingly no provision has been recorded for these matters or
any unasserted claims.
6,897 6,200
It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of these matters may be the subject of negotiation and litigation over several
Debtors include trading balances of £1 million (2002 – £nil) due from joint ventures and associated undertakings. Other debtors due after years. The largest individual amounts provided are expected to be settled within three years.
one year include insurance recovery receivables which have been discounted using a risk-free rate of return.
For a discussion of legal issues, refer to Note 30, ‘Legal proceedings’.
22 Other creditors 2003 2002 24 Contingent liabilities
£m £m
At 31st December 2003 contingent liabilities, comprising guarantees, discounted bills and other items arising in the normal course of
Amounts due within one year
business, amounted to £236 million (2002 – £138 million). For a discussion of tax issues, refer to Note 12, ‘Taxation’ and of legal issues,
Trade creditors 686 715
refer to Note 30, ‘Legal proceedings’.
Taxation (Note 12) 1,458 1,449
Social security 108 87
Other creditors 439 429
Accruals and deferred income 3,121 3,285
Dividends payable 1,333 1,292
7,145 7,257
Amounts due after one year
Other creditors 130 113
Accruals and deferred income 102 93
232 206
Accruals include obligations for wages and salaries of £689 million (2002 – £557 million).110 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 111
25 Net debt 2003 2002 25 Net debt continued
£m £m
Secured loans
Liquid investments 2,493 1,256
Loans amounting to £13 million (2002 – £13 million) are secured by charges on fixed and current assets.
Cash at bank 962 1,052
2003 2002
3,455 2,308 Finance lease obligations £m £m
Loans and overdrafts due within one year: Rental payments due within one year 1 1
Bank loans and overdrafts (230) (263) Rental payments due between one and two years 2 2
Commercial paper (836) (1,284) Rental payments due between two and three years 1 1
Eurobonds and Medium-Term notes (383) – Rental payments due between three and four years 1 1
Obligations under finance leases (1) (1) Rental payments due between four and five years 2 1
Other loans (2) (3) Rental payments due after five years 6 7
(1,452) (1,551) Total finance lease obligations 13 13
Loans due after one year:
Bank loans (4) (3) Financial instruments
Eurobonds, Medium-Term notes and private financing (3,617) (3,054) Further information is given in Note 32.
Loan Stock (13) (14)
Obligations under finance leases (12) (12) 26 Commitments
Other loans (5) (9) 2003 2002
Capital commitments £m £m
(3,651) (3,092)
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:
Net debt (1,648) (2,335) Intangible fixed assets 1,412 1,410
Tangible fixed assets 171 382
At the balance sheet date the Group’s liquid investments had an aggregate market value of £2,509 million (2002 – £1,264 million). 1,583 1,792
Liquid investments include redeemable preference shares, which are fully collateralised with highly rated bonds, of £1 billion (2002 – £nil).
The Group has entered into a number of research collaborations to develop new compounds with other pharmaceutical companies. The
Loans and overdrafts due within one year terms of these arrangements can include up-front fees, equity investments, loans and commitments to fund specified levels of research
Commercial paper comprises a US$10 billion programme, of which £836 million was in issue at 31st December 2003 in the future. In addition the Group will often agree to make further payments if future ‘milestones’ are achieved. As some of these
(31st December 2002 – £1,284 million), backed up by committed facilities of 364 days duration of £784 million (2003 – $1,404 million; agreements relate to compounds in the early stages of development, milestone payments will continue for a number of years if the
2002 – $1,404 million), renewable annually, and liquid investments of £708 million (2003 – $1,267 million; 2002 – $1,267 million). compounds move successfully through the development process. Generally the closer the product is to marketing approval the greater
the possibility of success.
The weighted average interest rate on commercial paper borrowings at 31st December 2003 was 1.1 per cent (2002 – 1.3 per cent).
The Group also has other commitments of £144 million (2002 – £162 million) relating to revenue payments to be made under licences
Loans due after one year and other alliances, principally to Exelixis Inc.
In 2003 two bonds were issued under the European Medium Term Note programme; a €1 billion, 3.375 per cent coupon bond and a
A number of commitments were made in 2003 under licensing and other agreements, principally with NeuroSearch A/S, Ranbaxy
€500 million, 3.25 per cent coupon bond.
Laboratories Ltd. and POZEN Inc.
Loans due after one year are repayable over various periods as follows:
2003 2002
2003 2002 Commitments under operating leases to pay rentals for the next year £m £m
£m £m
Operating leases on land and buildings which expire:
Between one and two years 562 423
In one year or less 6 10
Between two and three years 281 563
Between one and five years 19 47
Between three and four years 2 311
After five years 35 56
Between four and five years 1,199 2
After five years 1,607 1,793 60 113
3,651 3,092 Operating leases on plant, equipment and vehicles which expire:
In one year or less 8 7
The loans repayable after five years carry interest at effective rates between 3.3 per cent and 5.3 per cent. The repayment dates range from Between one and five years 50 47
2009 to 2033. After five years 2 1
60 55
Commitments under operating leases to pay rentals in future years
2004 120 168
2005 94 97
2006 78 80
2007 54 59
2008 43 49
2009 and thereafter 158 249
547 702112 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 113
Other Profit and
Share 29 Reserves reserves loss account Total
27 Share capital and share premium account Ordinary Shares of 25p each p are ccm oi uu nm t £m £m £m
Number £m £m At 31st December 2000 1,849 4,155 6,004
Goodwill written back – 3 56 356
Share capital authorised
Exchange movements – ( 151) (151)
At 31st December 2002 10,000,000,000 2,500
Shares purchased for cancellation 17 (1,274) (1,257)
At 31st December 2003 10,000,000,000 2,500
Profit attributable to shareholders – 3 ,053 3,053
Share capital issued and fully paid Dividends – (2,356) (2,356)
At 1st January 2002 6,172,965,989 1,543 170 Revaluation of goodwill due to exchange – 28 28
Share capital issued under share option schemes 7,049,394 2 54 At 31st December 2001 1,866 3,811 5,677
Share capital purchased and cancelled (155,749,038) (39) – Exchange movements – ( 154) (154)
At 31st December 2002 6,024,266,345 1,506 224 UK tax on exchange movements – (67) (67)
Share capital issued under share option schemes 6,041,283 1 40 Shares purchased for cancellation 39 (2,220) (2,181)
Share capital purchased and cancelled (80,844,000) (20) – Profit attributable to shareholders – 3 ,915 3,915
Dividends – (2,346) (2,346)
At 31st December 2003 5,949,463,628 1,487 264
Unrealised gains on equity investments – 7 7
At 31st December 2002 1,905 2,946 4,851
Number (000)
Exchange movements – 3 7 3 7
Number of shares issuable under outstanding options (Note 34)
Tax on exchange movements and unrealised gains – (69) (69)
At 31st December 2002 217,953
Shares purchased for cancellation 20 (980) (960)
At 31st December 2003 259,990
Profit attributable to shareholders – 4 ,484 4,484
Dividends – (2,374) (2,374)
Number of unissued shares not under option
Unrealised gains on equity investments – 7 7
At 31st December 2002 3,757,781
Revaluation of goodwill due to exchange _ (7) (7)
At 31st December 2003 3,790,546
At 31st December 2003 1,925 4,044 5,969
In October 2002, GlaxoSmithKline commenced a new £4 billion share buy-back programme. This follows the completion of the £4 billion
buy-back programme announced in 2001. A total of £1,199 million has been spent on the new share buy-back programme, of which Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1st January 1998 which has been written off against other reserves amounts to £6,180 million,
£980 million was spent in 2003. The exact amount and timing of future purchases, and whether some repurchased shares will be held as including goodwill of £4,840 million previously held as a goodwill reserve which was offset against other reserves in 1998. The goodwill
Treasury shares rather than being cancelled, will be determined by the company and is dependent on market conditions and other factors. written back in 2001 relates primarily to the disposals of Affymax and part of the Group’s holding in Quest Diagnostics, Inc. Goodwill
In the period 1st January 2004 to 27th February 2004 a further 5 million shares have been purchased and cancelled at a cost of denominated in local currencies which is subject to revaluation amounted to £300 million at 31st December 2003.
£55 million.
Goodwill on acquisitions after 1st January 1998 has been capitalised, in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2.
For details of substantial shareholdings refer to ‘Substantial shareholdings’ on page 162.
Exchange movements taken to reserves in 2003 include losses of £103 million (2002 – losses £1,251 million, 2001 – losses
£114 million) on foreign currency loans less deposits, gains of £133 million (2002 – gains £1,097 million, 2001 – losses £9 million) on the
28 Non-equity minority interests
retranslation of net assets and £7 million (2002 – £nil, 2001 – losses £28 million) on goodwill eliminated against reserves.
SmithKline Beecham Holdings Corporation (SBH Corp), a subsidiary incorporated in Delaware, USA, has in issue $500 million of Flexible
The tax on exchange movements and unrealised gains in the year of £69 million (2002 – £67 million, 2001 – £nil) relates to the taxable
Auction Market Preferred Stock (Flex AMPS), comprising 5,000 shares of $100,000 each, issued in six series. The dividend on these shares
element of the foreign currency loans less deposits and unrealised gains taken to reserves.
was fixed on issuance in 1996 for a seven-year period that ended in July 2003 for half of the shares and for a five year period which
ended during 2001 for the other half. The dividend for all these shares now varies, predominately with prevailing interest rates, and is Exchange adjustments debited to reserves cumulatively amount to £1,415 million (2002 – £1,452 million, 2001 – £1,298 million).
set every seven weeks at an auction at which the shares are also traded.
Other reserves include the merger reserve created on the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham amounting to £1,561 million
SBH Corp also has in issue $400 million of Auction Rate Preference Stock (ARPS), comprising 4,000 shares of $100,000 each, issued in at 31st December 2003 (2002 – £1,561 million; 2001 – £1,561 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created
five series, the dividend on which also varies under conditions similar to the Flex AMPS described above. as a result of the share buy-back programme amounting to £76 million at 31st December 2003 (2002 – £56 million, 2001 – £17 million).
Together, the ARPS and the Flex AMPS constitute the preference shares, which represent the non-equity minority interests. Notice to Total reserves amounted to £5,969 million at 31st December 2003 (2002 – £4,851 million, 2001 – £5,677 million), of which £8,981 million
redeem all eleven series was given in February 2004, with redemption expected to be completed in March and April 2004. (2002 – £10,879 million; 2001 – £718 million) relates to the company and £86 million (2002 – £76 million, 2001 – £61 million) relates to
joint ventures and associated undertakings.
SmithKline Beecham plc has, in certain circumstances, guaranteed payment of dividends declared on the preference shares. SmithKline
Beecham plc has also agreed with SBH Corp that in certain circumstances it will provide support to SBH Corp in relation to the principal. The profit of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year was £1,436 million (2002 – £10,598 million, 2001 - £4,331 million), which after dividends
However, any guarantee or support is limited so that in no circumstances could the holder of preference shares be in a more favourable of £2,374 million (2002 – £2,352 million, 2001 – £2,356 million), gave a retained loss of £938 million (2002 – profit of £8,246 million,
position than had they been a holder of a preference share in SmithKline Beecham plc. The preference shares represent a long-term 2001 – profit of £1,975 million). After the cost of shares purchased for cancellation of £980 million (2002 – £2,220 million,
non-equity minority interest in the Group balance sheet in accordance with FRS 4 ‘Capital Instruments’ and UITF 33 ‘Obligations in capital 2001 – £1,274 million) and an unrealised profit on capital reduction by subsidiary of £nil (2002 – £4,096 million, 2001 – £nil), the profit
instruments’. and loss account reserve at 31st December 2003 stood at £8,905 million (2002 – £10,823 million, 2001 – £701 million), of which
£4,096 million is unrealised (2002 – £4,096 million, 2001 – £nil).114 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 115
30 Legal proceedings The Group continues to pursue patent infringement claims in 30 Legal proceedings continued That case is still in the discovery phase. In June 2003 the Group
litigation in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against Apotex, commenced an action in the US District Court for the District of
The Group is involved in numerous legal and administrative Actions have also been filed against Watson Pharmaceuticals in
Geneva, Alphapharm, Andrx, Teva Pharmaceuticals and Zenith, and New Jersey against the Faulding Pharmaceutical Company alleging
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, the US District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, Eon Labs
bulk suppliers BASF and Sumika Fine Chemicals. Apotex infringement of the two method of use patents for ondansetron.
antitrust, and governmental investigations and related private Manufacturing in the US District Court for the Southern District of
Alphapharm, BASF and Sumika have filed counterclaims in these Faulding did not challenge the compound patent. That case, as of
litigation. The most significant of those matters are described New York, IMPAX Laboratories in the US District Court for the
actions alleging that the Group has violated anti-trust or unfair the date of this report, has been stayed pending decisions in the
below. Northern District of California and Excel Pharmaceuticals in both
competition laws. Teva, Reddy and Kali cases.
the US District Court for the District of New Jersey and the US
Intellectual property In February 2003 the CAFC heard Apotex’s appeal from a decision District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. The Watson case Lamictal
USA by the US District Court for the District of Columbia denying has been settled on terms involving a supply agreement referred In August 2002 the Group commenced an action in the US District
Apotex’s request that the FDA be required to delist certain of the to below. Court for the District of New Jersey against Teva Pharmaceuticals
Paxil
Group’s patents for Paxil from the Orange Book. In October 2003 USA, Inc., alleging infringement of the Group’s compound patent
In the USA a number of distributors of generic drugs have filed Judges granted summary judgement of non-infringement in the
the CAFC affirmed the district court decision and dismissed the for lamotrigine, the active ingredient in Lamictal oral tablets. That
applications with the FDA to market generic versions of Impax and Excel cases and the Group appealed each of those
case. patent expires in July 2008. The defendant has filed an ANDA with
Paxil/Seroxat (paroxetine hydrochloride) prior to the expiration in decisions to the CAFC. In January 2004 the CAFC ruled in favour
the FDA with a certification of invalidity of the Group’s patent.
2006 of the Group’s patent on paroxetine hydrochloride In March 2000 GlaxoSmithKline filed an action against Pentech of IMPAX and affirmed the district court ruling that IMPAX’s
FDA approval of that ANDA is stayed until the earlier of January
hemihydrate. Apotex launched its generic version of Paxil in Pharmaceuticals in the US District Court for the Northern District generic version did not infringe the Group’s patents. The FDA had
2005 or resolution of the patent infringement litigation. No trial
September 2003. The other distributors are looking to bring to of Illinois for infringement of the Group’s patents for paroxetine earlier granted tentative approval for the IMPAX generic version.
date has been set for the case.
market anhydrate or other versions of paroxetine hydrochloride hydrochloride. Pentech filed an ANDA for a capsule version of The CAFC has not yet ruled on the Group’s appeal of the summary
and in one case paroxetine mesylate. In response the Group filed Paxil, asserting that its compound and presentation do not infringe judgement of non-infringement in the Excel case. Eon’s motion for Levitra
actions against all those distributors for infringement of various of the Group’s patents or that the patents are invalid. In April 2003 summary judgement for non-infringement was denied. The district In October 2002 Pfizer Inc. filed an action against Bayer AG and
the Group’s patents. The cases are complex but the Group believes the Group reached a settlement with Pentech and Par court trial in the Eon case was concluded in December 2003 but as GlaxoSmithKline in the US District Court for the District of
that the generic anhydrate and other versions infringe because Pharmaceuticals to which Pentech had granted rights under of the date of this report the decision has not yet been announced. Delaware, alleging that the manufacture and sale of Levitra
they contain and/or convert to the hemihydrate form and/or Pentech’s ANDA for paroxetine hydrochloride capsules. The (vardenafil) would infringe a patent newly issued to Pfizer and
In January 2004 the CAFC granted Eon’s motion to stay the
infringe other Group patents. settlement allowed Par to distribute in Puerto Rico substitutable asking that Bayer and GlaxoSmithKline be permanently enjoined.
preliminary injunction against launch of Eon’s 100 mg generic
generic paroxetine hydrochloride immediate release tablets In September 2003 the US Patent and Trademark Office initiated
In July 1998 GlaxoSmithKline filed an action against Apotex in the version that had been entered by the trial court at the conclusion
supplied and licensed from the Group for a royalty payable to the a re-examination of the Pfizer patent based on questions of
US District Court for the Northern District of Illinois for of the trial. Under the terms of its supply agreement with
Group. Par became entitled to distribute the same product in the patentability in light of prior art. The Pfizer action, including an
infringement of the Group’s patent for paroxetine hydrochloride GlaxoSmithKline, Watson Pharmaceuticals began shipping a
US market once Apotex’s generic version of Paxil became available additional suit filed in the same court following the launch of
hemihydrate. Apotex had filed an Abbreviated New Drug second 100 mg generic version the same day that Eon began
there in September 2003. In the settlement Par and Pentech Levitra in the USA, is predicated on the validity of that patent and
Application (ANDA) with the FDA seeking approval to introduce a shipment of its generic version in January 2004.
acknowledge that the GlaxoSmithKline patent covering the has been stayed pending the outcome of the re-examination.
generic form of Paxil. Following a trial in February 2003 the judge
hemihydrate form of paroxetine hydrochloride is valid and Zofran
ruled that GlaxoSmithKline’s patent is valid but not infringed by Imitrex
enforceable and would be infringed by Pentech’s proposed capsule In August 2001 the Group commenced an action in the US District
Apotex’s product. GlaxoSmithKline appealed the ruling of non- In December 2003 the Group commenced an action in the US
product. The Bureau of Competition of the US Federal Trade Court for the District of New Jersey against Reddy-Cheminor and
infringement to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit District Court for the Southern District of New York against
Commission reviewed the settlement. The review was voluntary Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories. Dr Reddy had certified invalidity of three
(CAFC), which hears all appeals from US District Courts on Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, alleging infringement of one of two
and was conducted at the request of the Group, Par and Pentech. patents for ondansetron, the active ingredient in Zofran tablets,
intellectual property matters. The CAFC heard the appeal in primary compound patents for sumatriptan, the active ingredient
Pentech’s former supplier Asahi Glass Co. filed claims alleging that including the compound patent that expires in July 2005 and two
January 2004 but as of the date of this report no decision has yet in Imitrex. That patent expires in 2008. The defendant has filed
the settlement violated the anti-trust laws. The US District Court method of use patents, the later of which expires in December
been announced. an ANDA with the FDA with a certification of invalidity of that
for the Northern District of Illinois dismissed these claims in 2006, in both instances taking into account an expected extension
compound patent but did not certify invalidity or non-infringement
In June 1999 GlaxoSmithKline filed an action against Geneva October 2003. Asahi has appealed the decision to the CAFC. for paediatric exclusivity. The Reddy case is scheduled for trial in
of the second compound patent that expires in December 2006.
Pharmaceuticals, a subsidiary of Novartis Pharmaceuticals, in the Similar claims brought by Apotex and Sumika are pending in the May 2004. In July 2003 the Group filed an action against Dr.
The case is in its early stages.
US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania for US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. Reddy’s Laboratories in the same district court for infringement of
infringement of the Group’s patents for paroxetine hydrochloride the Group’s patents related to the orally disintegrating tablet Valtrex
In October 2000 GlaxoSmithKline filed an action against Synthon
following notice of Geneva’s ANDA filing. That case has been presentation of Zofran. In October 2003 the Group filed an action In May 2003 the Group commenced an action in the US District
Pharmaceuticals in the US District Court for the Middle District of
consolidated with similar infringement actions against other against West-ward Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in the same district court Court for the District of New Jersey against Ranbaxy Laboratories,
North Carolina for infringement of the Group’s patents for
generic companies that subsequently filed ANDAs. Additional for infringement of the Group’s patents related to an injectable alleging infringement of the Group’s compound patent for
paroxetine hydrochloride and paroxetine mesylate. Synthon had
infringement actions have been brought based on patents issued presentation of Zofran. Both the Dr. Reddy disintegrating tablet valaciclovir, the active ingredient in Valtrex. That patent expires in
filed a 505(b)(2) application (a ‘paper NDA’) with the FDA using
subsequent to the original filing against Apotex in the Northern case and the West-ward case have been consolidated with the 2009. The defendant has filed an ANDA with the FDA with a
paroxetine mesylate, a different salt form of paroxetine than that
District of Illinois. The Group also filed an action against Apotex earlier Dr. Reddy case scheduled for trial in May 2004. certification of invalidity of the Group’s compound patent and
used in the marketed form of Paxil. In December 2003
relating to those new patents in the Eastern District of non-infringement of two other patents expiring in 2016 that are
GlaxoSmithKline and Synthon reached a settlement pursuant to In March 2002 the Group filed a similar action against Teva
Pennsylvania. In December 2002 the judge granted in part and listed in the Orange Book. FDA approval of that ANDA is stayed
which the Group has granted Synthon a royalty-bearing license Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. in the US District Court for the District of
denied in part summary judgement motions filed by Apotex with until the earlier of October 2005 or resolution of the patent
to market its paroxetine mesylate product in the USA. Delaware alleging infringement of the two method of use patents
the result that issues of validity and infringement of three of the infringement litigation. Discovery is underway in the case.
for ondansetron. Teva had certified invalidity or non-infringement
four new patents will move toward trial. The Group has petitioned
Wellbutrin of the two method of use patents. Teva did not challenge the Avandia
the District Court to permit an interim appeal to the CAFC. In June
Five distributors of generic pharmaceutical products have filed compound patent. The trial in the Teva case concluded in January In August 2003 the Group filed an action in the US District Court
2003 the Group requested the US Food and Drug Administration
ANDAs for sustained release bupropion hydrochloride tablets 2004 but as of the date of this report no decision has been for the District of New Jersey against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc.
(FDA) to remove three patents related to Paxil from the register of
(Wellbutrin SR and Zyban), accompanied in each case with a announced. In September 2003, November 2003 and January for infringement of the Group’s patent relating to the maleate salt
pharmaceutical patents maintained by the FDA (the Orange Book).
certification of invalidity and/or infringement of the Group’s 2004 the Group filed actions against Teva in the same court for form of rosiglitazone, the active ingredient in Avandia, which
The delisting did not affect the validity of these patents or the
patents. The Group has brought suit for patent infringement infringement of the Group’s patents related to the injectable and expires in 2015. In September 2003 the Group filed a comparable
related patent litigation. Following FDA approval of its ANDA,
against each of the filing parties. The Group filed suit against orally disintegrating tablet presentations of Zofran. action in the same court against Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, alleging
Apotex subsequently launched a generic version of Paxil in
Andrx Pharmaceuticals, the first to file an ANDA, in the US District infringement of the same patent for the maleate salt form.
September 2003. An earlier ondansetron case, involving orally disintegrating Zofran
Court for the Southern District of Florida. In February 2002 the
tablets, was commenced by the Group in January 2003 against Kali
District Court Judge granted Andrx’s summary judgement motion
Laboratories in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey.
and ruled that its product does not infringe the Group’s patents.
In September 2003 the CAFC reversed that decision and remanded
the case to the district court for trial.116 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 117
30 Legal proceedings continued UK and Europe 30 Legal proceedings continued Baycol
In August 2001 Bayer AG withdrew Baycol (cerivastatin sodium)
Both Dr Reddy’s Laboratories and Teva filed ANDAs with the FDA Seroxat This patent, set to expire in 2013, including supplementary
worldwide in light of reports of adverse events, including deaths,
with certifications of invalidity of the Group’s maleate salt patent. Following the expiration of the data exclusivity period in Europe, protection certificate protection, relates to the combination of the
involving rhabdomyolosis. GlaxoSmithKline had participated in the
FDA approval of those ANDAs is stayed until the earlier of a marketing authorisation was issued to Synthon BV/Genthon in active ingredients, salmeterol and fluticasone propionate, on which
marketing of Baycol in the USA pursuant to a co-promotion
November 2006 or resolution of the respective patent infringement October 2000 by regulatory authorities in Denmark for paroxetine separate patents exist (which have not been challenged), providing
agreement with Bayer which was the license holder and
actions. Teva subsequently filed an additional certification mesylate, a different salt form of paroxetine than that used in the patent protection in the UK until late 2005.
manufacturer of the product.
challenging the validity of the Group’s basic compound patent for marketed form of Seroxat/Paxil. Marketing authorisations have
Subsequently Generics (U.K.), IVAX and Arrow Generics filed
rosiglitazone, and in January 2004 the Group commenced an since been granted in a number of other European countries the Following the withdrawal, Bayer and GlaxoSmithKline have been
revocation actions with respect to the same patent. The trial for
action against Teva in the same court for infringement of that majority of which are based on the original Danish approval under named as defendants in thousands of lawsuits filed in state and
those revocation actions was completed in January 2004 and the
patent. The basic compound patent currently expires in 2008, the Mutual Recognition process. Generic products containing federal courts in the USA on behalf of both individuals and
judge’s decision is expected shortly. Several other UK Seretide
although expiry is expected to be extended to 2011 after the US paroxetine mesylate have been launched in Austria, Denmark, putative classes of former Baycol users. A number of the suits
patents, for example those relating to the Diskus device and the
Patent and Trademark Office has granted patent term restoration. France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands and Sweden, allege that the plaintiffs have suffered personal injuries, including
CFC-free MDI device which expire in 2011 and 2012 respectively,
although the product in Austria and Denmark has been withdrawn rhabdomyolosis, from the use of Baycol. Others claim that persons
Augmentin have not been challenged.
following the award of patent interim injunctions. The Group has who took Baycol, although not injured, may be at risk of future
In August 2002 the Group commenced proceedings against
initiated litigation challenging the approval by the Danish injury or may have suffered economic damages from purchasing
Geneva Pharmaceuticals, Biochemie GmbH and Biochemie SpA Product liability
Medicines Agency on grounds that an authorisation should not and using Baycol. Plaintiffs seek remedies including compensatory,
and their parent Novartis AG before the US International Trade Paxil
have been granted under the abridged procedure as paroxetine punitive and statutory damages and creation of funds for medical
Commission and in Colorado state court, alleging that the The Group has received both purported class action and individual
mesylate is not essentially similar to Seroxat and questions from monitoring. GlaxoSmithKline and Bayer Corporation, the principal
manufacture and sale in the USA of Geneva’s generic Augmentin lawsuits filed in state and federal courts in the USA alleging that
that case were referred to the European Court of Justice in US subsidiary of Bayer AG, have signed an allocation agreement
product using a production strain stolen earlier from paroxetine (the active ingredient in Paxil) is addictive and causes
February 2003. under which Bayer Corporation has agreed to pay 95 per cent of
GlaxoSmithKline constitutes misappropriation of the Group’s trade dependency and withdrawal reactions. Plaintiffs seek remedies
all settlements and compensatory damages judgements with each
secrets and unfair competition. Both proceedings sought to Marketing authorisations have also been issued in eleven European including compensatory, punitive and statutory damages and the
party retaining responsibility for its own attorneys’ fees and any
prevent the importation and sale in the USA of generic Augmentin countries for products containing paroxetine hydrochloride cost of a fund for medical monitoring. In 2003 a federal judge in
punitive damages. The federal cases have been consolidated in a
containing clavulanate made using the stolen GlaxoSmithKline anhydrate, another variant of the Group’s product. Generic the US District Court for the Central District of California denied
multidistrict litigation proceeding in the US District Court for the
production strain; the Colorado action sought damages as well. products containing the anhydrate are now on the market in class action certifications for a nationwide class and a California
District of Minnesota. Numerous cases are scheduled for trial in
An additional action was brought against Lek Pharmaceuticals, Austria, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, statewide class as to cases filed in federal court in that district.
state and federal courts during 2004. To date only one class action,
another Novartis affiliate, in October 2002 in North Carolina state Portugal, Spain, Sweden and the UK. GlaxoSmithKline believes that Subsequently, on petition from plaintiffs’ counsel all federal court
in which GlaxoSmithKline was not named as a defendant, has
court. In July 2003 the Group reached a settlement agreement marketing of either a paroxetine hydrochloride anhydrate product cases have been transferred to that District Court for consolidation
been certified in Oklahoma. In September 2003 plaintiffs’ class
with Novartis and its affiliate companies named in the Group’s or a paroxetine mesylate product by third parties in European in Multidistrict Litigation (MDL). Most of the remaining lawsuits are
action certification motion in the consolidated federal multi-district
complaints over both the ITC complaint and related state court countries infringes its patents and is litigating its position in actions in their early stages although certain state court trials are
litigation was denied.
actions. Under the terms of the agreement, the Group is to receive in many European and other countries outside the USA. In June scheduled to start in May 2004. There has been no determination
single-digit percentage royalties on US sales of generic versions of 2002 the European Patent Office Opposition Division rejected an as to whether any of the lawsuits pending in the MDL or in state Fen-Phen
Augmentin sold by Novartis or its affiliate companies from July opposition filed by Synthon against the Group’s European patent courts will be permitted to proceed as class actions. In 1997 the FDA became aware of reports of cardiac valvular
2002 through to June 2006. Similar state court actions were covering a crystal form of paroxetine mesylate that is used in problems in individuals for whom fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine
In the last decade there has been litigation against the
initiated against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. and Ranbaxy Synthon’s product. That decision is under appeal. alone or in combination of phentermine was prescribed as part
manufacturers of Prozac and other selective serotonin reuptake
Pharmaceuticals Inc. in August 2002 in the Philadelphia County of a regimen of weight reduction and requested the voluntary
In the UK, following a revocation action initiated by Synthon, the inhibitor (SSRI) products such as Paxil for homicidal or suicidal
Court of Common Pleas, and are not affected by the Novartis withdrawal of fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine from the market.
Court of Appeal upheld the validity of the corresponding UK behaviour exhibited by users of their products. The Group has
settlement. In November 2003 the CAFC affirmed the decision of The reports of cardiac valvular problems and the subsequent
patent. This decision overturned the first instance decision which received a number of such claims and lawsuits with respect to
the US District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia holding withdrawal of those products from the market spawned numerous
had held that the patent was invalid. Synthon’s petition for leave Paxil. None of these are or purport to be class actions.
the Group’s patents covering Augmentin invalid. product liability lawsuits filed against the manufacturers and
to appeal to the House of Lords has been accepted. In February
Phenylpropanolamine distributors of fenfluramine, dexfenfluramine and phentermine.
Ceftin 2003 the Dutch court revoked the corresponding Dutch patent.
Following a report from the Yale Haemorrhagic Stroke Project As one of a number of manufacturers of phentermine, the Group
The Group filed an action for infringement of its patents for That decision has been appealed.
that found a suggestion of an association between first use of is a defendant in thousands of lawsuits in various state and federal
cefuroxime axetil, the active ingredient in the Group’s Ceftin anti-
In response to a challenge by BASF to the Group’s UK patent for phenylpropanolamine (‘PPA’) decongestant and haemorrhagic district courts in the USA. Most of the lawsuits seek relief including
infective product, against Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals in the US
paroxetine hydrochloride anhydrate in the UK High Court in July stroke, the Group and most other manufacturers voluntarily some combination of compensatory and punitive damages,
District Court for New Jersey. A preliminary injunction was granted
2002 the Judge decided that the patent was partly valid and partly withdrew consumer healthcare products in which PPA was an medical monitoring and refunds for purchases of drugs. In 1997
in favour of the Group but the CAFC subsequently vacated that
invalid. The claims held valid were asserted against Apotex, Neolab active ingredient. Since the PPA product withdrawal the Group the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation issued an order
injunction and remanded the case to the District Court for a full
and Waymade Healthcare and an interim injunction preventing sale has been named as a defendant in numerous personal injury and consolidating and transferring all federal actions to the District
trial on the merits. Thereafter Ranbaxy launched its generic version
of their version of the product was granted in November 2002. class action lawsuits filed in state and federal courts alleging Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. That court approved
in March 2002. The trial was concluded in August 2003 but as of
In June 2003 the UK Court of Appeal upheld the first instance personal injury or increased risk of injury from use of products a global settlement proposed by defendant Wyeth, which sold
the date of this report no decision has been announced. Since the
decision which held the process claims of the patent to be valid. containing PPA and unfair and deceptive business practices. fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine. The settlement, subsequently
patent as to which the Group claims infringement expired in May
The infringement action against Apotex continued under the same Plaintiffs seek remedies including compensatory and punitive confirmed by the Third Circuit Court of Appeals, does not include
2003, the Group now seeks monetary damages based on
patent and the UK High Court ruled in December 2003 in favour damages and refunds. The federal cases have been consolidated any of the phentermine defendants, including the Group.
Ranbaxy’s sales. The Group has filed a similar action against
of Apotex and held the patent not infringed and also invalid. in a multidistrict litigation proceeding in the US District Court for Individual plaintiffs may elect to opt out of the class settlement
Apotex, a second distributor of generic pharmaceutical products,
GlaxoSmithKline has filed an appeal from that decision and a the District of Washington. The judge responsible for those and pursue their claims individually and tens of thousands of
in the US District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. A
hearing has been scheduled for 22nd/23rd March 2004. In the proceedings has denied class certification and struck all class plaintiffs have elected to do so. Wyeth continues to settle
preliminary injunction was granted in favour of the Group in June
interim Apotex launched their generic version of Seroxat in the UK allegations in the federal personal injury and consumer refund individual state court cases before trial and the Group continues to
2002. Apotex subsequently obtained FDA approval for their
in January 2004. class actions. A limited number of cases in which the Group or be dismissed from lawsuits as they are settled by Wyeth.
generic product. At trial the judge ruled that Apotex willfully
other manufacturers are defendants are now reaching trial in state
infringed the Group’s patent and awarded attorney fees to Seretide
courts. Class certification has been denied in California state court
GlaxoSmithKline. In January 2003 Cipla and Neolab filed an action in the UK High
and a Pennsylvania state court putative class action has been
Court, seeking revocation of one of the Group’s UK patents
dismissed, leaving no putative class actions pending against the
relating to the asthma treatment Seretide/Advair.
Group in this litigation.118 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 119
30 Legal proceedings continued All of the civil suits filed in state court by state attorneys general 30 Legal proceedings continued Commercial matters
and class action plaintiffs were initially removed to federal court Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. initiated arbitration proceedings
Thimerosal In August 2002 the CAFC issued a decision affirming the District
and then conditionally transferred to the federal court in in December 2001 concerning the Group’s unilateral withdrawal
GlaxoSmithKline, along with a number of other pharmaceutical Court’s judgement of invalidity but declining to rule on the
Massachusetts. Three of the attorney general cases (New York, of grepafloxacin (Raxar/Vaxar) in October 1999 for safety reasons.
companies, has been named as a defendant in numerous individual judgement of inequitable conduct.
Nevada and Connecticut) and one of the private payer class action Otsuka alleges that the product withdrawal and simultaneous
personal injury lawsuits and purported class actions in state and
cases have since been remanded to their respective state courts, Following the District Court decision, antitrust claims alleging public announcement constituted material breaches of the license
federal district courts in the USA and courts in Canada alleging
and other remand motions are pending. All the actions are in their competitive injury and overcharges were filed by Teva and Eon and supply agreements.
that thimerosal, a preservative used in vaccines, causes
early stages. Pharmaceuticals, generic manufacturers of nabumetone, by
neurodevelopmental disorders and other injuries. Plaintiffs seek The Group believes the underlying product withdrawal was
purported classes of direct and indirect purchasers and payers and
remedies including compensatory, punitive and statutory damages Cidra, Puerto Rico manufacturing site consistent with the terms of the agreements and that valid
by individual retail chains.
and the cost of a fund for medical monitoring and research. The In October 2003 the FDA began an investigation of the Group’s defences exist to the claims. A UK arbitration panel concluded its
lawsuits are in their early stages and there has been no manufacturing facility in Cidra, Puerto Rico. The Cidra site is The plaintiffs’ claims are based on allegations of fraudulent hearing on liability in December 2003 but to date has not yet
determination as to whether any of the purported class actions engaged in tableting and packaging for a range of procurement of a patent, wrongful listing of the patent in the issued its determination. In the event that the panel finds in favour
will be permitted to proceed as class actions. GlaxoSmithKline products – primarily for the US market – including FDA Orange Book and prosecution of sham patent infringement of Otsuka on liability a separate hearing would be held later in
Paxil, Paxil CR, Coreg, Avandia and Avandamet. Subsequently, the litigation. Those cases, which were originally filed in the US District 2004 to determine damages.
Lotronex
FDA has issued two Forms 483 (‘observations’ of possible Courts for the District of Massachusetts and the Eastern District of
Following the voluntary withdrawal of Lotronex in the USA in
deficiencies in manufacturing practices) to the Group. Pennsylvania, were all transferred to the District of Massachusetts. Environmental matters
November 2000 a number of lawsuits have been filed against the
The Group has settled the cases filed by Teva, Eon and a group of GlaxoSmithKline has been notified of its potential responsibility
Group in state and federal district courts, including individual The FDA observations relate to certain aspects of production
major retail pharmacy chains. In January 2004 the Group reached relating to past operations and its past waste disposal practices at
personal injury actions and purported class actions asserting controls, process validation and laboratory investigations primarily
a settlement with the class of direct purchasers pursuant to which certain sites, primarily in the USA. Some of these matters are the
product liability and consumer fraud claims. Plaintiffs seek remedies in respect of activities that occurred between 2001 and 2003. The
the Group has agreed to pay $175 million. That settlement is subject of litigation, including proceedings initiated by the US
including compensatory, punitive and statutory damages. A Group has responded to the observations contained in the Forms
subject to approval of the US District Court. Litigation continues federal or state governments for waste disposal site remediation
substantial number of claims have been settled. Most of the 483, but to date the FDA has not advised the Group as to whether
with a class of indirect purchasers in the same court. That trial is costs and tort actions brought by private parties.
remaining actions are in their early stages although tentative trial any further action is indicated. The Group continues to work
set for June 2004.
dates for some cases have been set for summer and fall 2004. To closely with the FDA to address any concerns and implement any GlaxoSmithKline has been advised that it may be a responsible
date a class has been certified in only one of the class actions. In changes required by the agency arising from the Forms 483 or the Augmentin party at approximately 27 sites, of which 14 appear on the
that matter a West Virginia state court rejected plaintiffs’ request FDA investigation. The Group has received no indication that In 2002, the US District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia National Priority List created by the Comprehensive Environmental
to certify a national refund class, but did certify a class of West ongoing supply from the site will be affected. found various patents covering Augmentin invalid. That holding Response Compensation and Liability Act (‘Superfund’).
Virginia consumers who suffered ‘only economic injury resulting was subsequently affirmed by the CAFC. Immediately following
These proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous
from the individual purchase’ of Lotronex and noted that damages, Anti-trust the adverse trial court decision, purported antitrust class actions
waste facilities, transporters of waste to the sites and generators
if proven, would be limited to the cost of the medication. Paxil were filed on behalf of consumers and third party payers in various
of hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites
In November 2000 the US Federal Trade Commission (‘FTC’) staff federal courts, which have now all been transferred or consolidated
or to reimburse the government for cleanup costs. In most
Government investigations advised the Group that they were conducting a non-public in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. Plaintiffs
instances, GlaxoSmithKline is involved as an alleged generator of
Colorado US Attorney subpoena investigation to determine whether the Group was violating allege that the Group knowingly obtained invalid patents and
hazardous waste although there are a few sites where
In February 2004 GlaxoSmithKline received a subpoena from the Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act by ‘monopolizing engaged in other anticompetitive conduct to prevent entry of
GlaxoSmithKline is involved as a current or former operator of the
US Attorney’s office in Colorado regarding the Group’s sales and or attempting to monopolize’ the market for paroxetine generic products in violation of the monopolization section of the
facility. Although Superfund provides that the defendants are
promotional practices relating to a number of its largest selling hydrochloride by preventing generic competition to Paxil and US antitrust laws. Plaintiffs seek declaratory and injunctive relief as
jointly and severally liable for cleanup costs, these proceedings are
products for the period from January 1997 to present. The Group requested the Group to submit certain information in connection well as treble damages for the alleged overcharges. There has been
frequently resolved on the basis of the nature and quantity of
is co-operating with the investigation which is in its early stages. with that investigation. In October 2003 the FTC closed its no determination as to whether the putative class actions will be
waste disposed of at the site by the generator. GlaxoSmithKline’s
investigation on the basis of its finding that no further action is permitted to proceed as class actions. Two new complaints were
Average wholesale price proportionate liability for cleanup costs has been substantially
warranted. filed shortly after the CAFC decision. First is a complaint filed in
GlaxoSmithKline has responded to subpoenas from the Office of determined for about 20 of the sites referred to above.
December 2003 in the US District Court for the Eastern District
the Inspector General of the US Department of Health and Human Following public reference to the FTC investigation regarding Paxil,
of Virginia by Lek Pharmaceuticals, a wholly-owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline’s potential liability varies greatly from site to site.
Services, the US Department of Justice and the states of Texas and purported class actions have been filed in the US District Court for
Novartis, seeking lost profits, treble damages, injunctive relief and While the cost of investigation, study and remediation at such sites
California in connection with allegations that pharmaceutical the Eastern District of Pennsylvania on behalf of indirect
attorneys’ fees. The second is a purported class action filed in that could, over time, be substantial, GlaxoSmithKline routinely accrues
companies, including GlaxoSmithKline, have violated federal fraud purchasers, including consumers and third party payers, and direct
same court on behalf of direct purchasers, primarily wholesalers. amounts related to its share of liability for such matters.
and abuse laws such as the Federal False Claims Act (and, with purchasers. The plaintiffs claim that the Group has monopolized a
respect to Texas and California, comparable state laws) as a result ‘market’ for Paxil by bringing allegedly sham patent litigation Wellbutrin
Legal charges and provisions
of the way certain drugs had been priced based on ‘average and allegedly abusing the regulatory procedures for the listing of Separately, the Group has prosecuted patent infringement suits
Legal expenses incurred, relating to the defence of the Group’s
wholesale price’ (AWP) and the way the Medicare and Medicaid patents in the FDA Orange Book. Treble damages are sought for against four companies that filed ANDAs seeking permission to
intellectual property, and litigation costs and provisions related to
programmes reimburse for those drugs. alleged overcharges flowing from the conduct. The cases are sell generic bupropion (Wellbutrin SR/Zyban) in the USA. In three
product liability claims on existing products, are charged to selling,
scheduled for trial in December 2004. Motions for certifications of those cases, summary judgement was entered against the
Subsequently, the states of Nevada, Montana, New York and general and administration costs. Litigation costs and provisions
of classes of direct and indirect purchasers have not yet been Group. Following those adverse rulings in the patent litigation,
Connecticut through their respective attorneys general and several relating to legal claims on withdrawn products and anti-trust
decided. In patent infringement litigation with GlaxoSmithKline, eight purported class actions were initially filed on behalf of
counties in New York state have filed civil lawsuits in state and matters are charged to other operating income/expense. Provisions
several generic drug companies have filed anti-trust counterclaims purchasers and third party payers in the US District Court for the
federal court against GlaxoSmithKline and several other drug are made, after taking appropriate legal advice, when a reasonable
based on the same allegations. In October 2003, anti-trust claims Eastern District of Pennsylvania, alleging that the Group engaged
companies. The actions claim – on behalf of the states as payers estimate can be made of the likely outcome of the dispute.
filed by Asahi Glass Co. were dismissed in US District Court for the in anticompetitive conduct, including prosecution of sham patent
and on behalf of in-state patients as consumers – damages and Information on provisions taken in 2003 and payments from
Northern District of Illinois. Asahi has appealed the decision to the infringement litigation, to prevent entry of generic products, and
restitution based on defendants’ AWP-based pricing for an provisions is set out in Note 23.
CAFC. GlaxoSmithKline’s motions to dismiss portions of seeking declaratory and injunctive relief, as well as treble damages
undefined set of pharmaceutical products covered by the states’
counterclaims filed by Apotex and Sumika in US District Court for for the alleged overcharges. Those cases were subsequently The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts
Medicaid programmes. In addition, private payer class action
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania have not yet been decided. consolidated in a single action in that district court. All plaintiffs provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
lawsuits have been filed against GlaxoSmithKline in several federal
and the Group have entered into an agreement that plaintiffs will proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
district and state courts. All the federal cases have been Relafen
dismiss the consolidated case (without prejudice to refiling).
consolidated in a multidistrict litigation proceeding in the US In August 2001 the US District Court for the District of
The dismissal papers are pending with the court. Tax matters
District Court for the District of Massachusetts. Massachusetts ruled the Group’s patent for nabumetone (Relafen)
Pending tax matters are described in Note 12.
invalid for anticipatory art and unenforceable on the grounds of
inequitable conduct.120 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 121
31 Acquisitions and disposals 31 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Details of the acquisition and disposal of subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures are given below.
2001 Book Fair value Net assets Goodwill Cost of
2003 Book Fair value Net assets Goodwill Cost of Acquisitions valu £e ms adjustme £n mts acqui £re md capitalis £e md acquisit £io mn
values adjustments acquired capitalised acquisition
Acquisitions £m £m £m £m £m Block Drug 491 352 843 – 843
Europharm 1 – 1 2 3 Shionogi joint venture 31 – 31 – 31
Other 13 (8) 5 13 18
Europharm 535 344 879 13 892
During 2003, the Group completed the buyout of the minority interests in Europharm Holdings SA, a Group subsidiary located in Romania,
for £3 million, giving rise to goodwill of a further £2 million, which has been capitalised.
Block Drug Company Inc.
Iterfi - Sterilyo In January 2001, the Group acquired Block Drug for cash consideration of £843 million which represented the fair value of the assets
During 2003, a further payment of £9 million was made pursuant to the 2002 acquisition agreement based on the financial performance of acquired.
the acquired company. This amount has been included as deferred compensation in 2002.
Shionogi joint venture
Disposals
During 2001 the Group established a joint venture with Shionogi to develop and commercialise a number of compounds contributed by
SB Clinical Laboratories
both parties. The Group acquired 50 per cent of the equity share capital for a cash consideration of £31 million, and has committed to
An additional cash refund of £3 million was received during 2003 in respect of indemnified liabilities arising from the SB Clinical Laboratories
make further contributions if certain development milestones are achieved.
disposal which occurred in 1999. This refund follows the successful outcome of a case in the US Court of Appeal.
Disposals
Iterfi- SB Clinical
Sterilyo Europharm Laboratories Other Total Quest Diagnostics, Inc.
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m In May 2001 the Group disposed of 1.5 million shares from its investment in Quest Diagnostics, Inc. for cash proceeds of £124 million,
Cash consideration paid 9 3 – 3 15 reducing the Group’s holding at 31st December 2001 to 23 per cent. After recognising a charge for goodwill previously written off to
reserves of £17 million a profit of £96 million was recognised.
Net cash proceeds from disposals – – 3 – 3
Affymax
During 2001 the Group completed the sale of the Affymax business to Affymax Inc., a new holding company, for 2.3 million non-voting
2002 Book Fair value Net assets Goodwill Cost of preference shares in Affymax Inc. representing a value of $19.6 million (£13.6 million). After recognising a charge for goodwill previously
values adjustments acquired capitalised acquisition
Acquisitions £m £m £m £m £m written off to reserves of £299 million a loss of £301 million was made. Disposal costs of £5 million were incurred in completing the sale.
Iterfi – Sterilyo (7) 4 (3) 21 18 Tagamet
Human Kft 10 – 10 1 11 In February 2001 the Group sold Tagamet in Japan to Sumitomo Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. for a cash consideration of £71 million. After
Other – – – 1 1 recognising a charge for goodwill previously written off to reserves of £72 million a loss of £1 million was recognised.
3 4 7 23 30
Quest
Diagnostics Affymax Tagamet Block Drug Shionogi Other Total
Iterfi – Sterilyo Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
During 2002 the Group acquired Iterfi-Sterilyo Group for an initial cash consideration of £9 million. A further payment was paid during Cash consideration paid – – – 843 31 18 892
2003, of £9 million, which was based on the financial performance of the acquired company during 2002. The net assets of Iterfi-Sterilyo Cash acquired – – – (45) – – (45)
have been incorporated in the financial statements at their provisional fair values. No adjustments were made to these values in 2003. Net cash payment on acquisitions – – – 798 31 18 847
Human Kft
Net cash proceeds from disposals 124 (5) 71 – – – 190
During 2002 the Group acquired the vaccine related assets of Human Kft, a manufacturing business located in Hungary, for a cash
consideration of £11 million.
Disposals
SB Clinical Laboratories
A cash refund of £6 million was received during 2002 in respect of indemnified liabilities arising from the SB Clinical Laboratories disposal
which occurred in 1999. The refund follows the successful outcome of a case in the US Court of Appeal.
SB Clinical Iterfi - Human
Laboratories Sterilyo Kft Other Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid – 9 11 6 26
Net cash proceeds from disposals 6 – – – 6122 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 123
32 Financial instruments and related disclosures The Group applies Board-approved limits to the amount of credit 32 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
exposure to any one counterparty and employs strict minimum
Policies Classification and fair values of financial assets and liabilities
credit worthiness criteria as to the choice of counterparty.
Discussion of the Group’s objectives and policies for the The following table sets out the classification of financial assets and liabilities and provides a reconciliation to Group net debt in Note 25.
management of financial instruments and associated risks is Short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded from financial assets and liabilities. Provisions have been included where there is a
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
included under ‘Treasury Policies’ in the Operating and financial contractual obligation to settle in cash.
The table on page 123 presents the carrying amounts under UK
review and prospects on page 72.
GAAP and the fair values of the Group’s financial assets and
2003 2002
liabilities at 31st December 2003 and 31st December 2002.
Investments Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
Debtors and creditors due within one year have been excluded. amount value amount value
The Group holds a number of equity investments, frequently in £m £m £m £m
entities where the Group has entered into research collaborations. The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included
Net debt
The Group seeks to realise the value in these investments, which at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a
Liquid investments 2,493 2,509 1,256 1,264
in part the research collaboration helps to create, and therefore current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced
Cash at bank 962 962 1,052 1,052
certain of these investments are regarded as available for sale and or liquidation sale. The following methods and assumptions were
Current asset financial instruments 3,455 3,471 2,308 2,316
are accounted for as current asset investments. For the purposes used to estimate the fair values:
of US GAAP all the current asset investments are classified as
• Equity investments – market value based on quoted market
available for sale. Sterling notes and bonds (1,474) (1,552) (1,472) (1,559)
prices in the case of listed investments; market value by
(1,474) (1,552) (1,472) (1,559)
In 2002, GlaxoSmithKline hedged part of the equity value of its reference to quoted prices for similar companies or recent
holdings in its largest equity investment, Quest Diagnostics, Inc. financing information in the case of material unlisted US dollar notes, bonds and private financing (866) (893) (978) (1,018)
through a series of variable sale forward contracts. These contracts investments Notes and bonds swapped into US dollars (498) (499) (498) (507)
(the ‘equity collar’) are structured in five series, each over one • Cash at bank – approximates to the carrying amount Currency swaps – 5 9 – 2 1
million Quest shares and mature between 2006 and 2008. • Liquid investments – based on quoted market prices for similar Interest rate swaps – 4 – 7
companies or recent financing information in the case of (1,364) (1,329) (1,476) (1,497)
The Group has liquid investments, representing funds surplus to
marketable securities; approximates to the carrying amount
immediate operating requirements, which are accounted for as Notes and bonds swapped into Yen (463) (457) (106) (114)
in the case of time deposits because of their short maturity
current asset investments. For the purposes of US GAAP the Currency swaps – 3 – 6
• Short-term loans and overdrafts – approximates to the carrying
investments are classified as available for sale. The proceeds from amount because of the short maturity of these instruments (463) (454) (106) (108)
sale of investments classified as available for sale under US GAAP,
• Medium-term loans – market value based on quoted market
in the year ended 31st December 2003 were £16,741 million. The Euro notes and bonds (699) (700) – –
prices in the case of the Eurobonds and other fixed rate
proceeds include the roll-over of liquid funds on short-term deposit. Interest rate swap – (4) – –
borrowings; approximates to the carrying amount in the case
Under US GAAP the gross gains and losses reflected in the
of floating rate bank loans and other loans (699) (704) – –
consolidated profit and loss account in respect of investments
• Forward exchange contracts – based on market prices and
classified as available for sale were £90 million and £1 million, Other medium-term borrowings (34) (34) (38) (38)
exchange rates at the balance sheet date
respectively. Other short-term loans and overdrafts (1,069) (1,069) (1,551) (1,551)
• Currency swaps – based on market valuations at the balance
sheet date Total borrowings (5,103) (5,142) (4,643) (4,753)
Foreign exchange risk management
• Equity collar - fair value is determined based on an option
The Group has entered into forward foreign exchange contracts Interest rate swaps – (6) – (1)
pricing model
in order to swap liquid assets and borrowings into the currencies
• Interest rate instruments – based on market valuations at the
required for Group purposes. At 31st December 2003 the Group
balance sheet date Total net debt (1,648) (1,677) (2,335) (2,438)
had outstanding contracts to sell or purchase foreign currency
• Debtors and creditors – approximates to the carrying amount
having a total notional principal amount of £8,544 million
• Provisions – approximates to the carrying amount Fixed asset equity investments 98 100 125 129
(2002 – £8,322 million). The majority of contracts are for periods
• Auction rate preference stock - approximates to the carrying Current asset equity investments 164 237 161 232
of 12 months or less.
amount in the case of floating rate instruments Other debtors due after 1 year 522 522 308 308
At the end of 2003 the Group had a number of currency swaps • Flexible auction market preferred stock - based on market Other creditors due after 1 year (232) (232) (206) (206)
in place in respect of medium-term debt instruments. Borrowings valuations at the balance sheet date. Provisions (245) (245) (224) (224)
denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies which match Other foreign exchange derivatives 52 71 133 133
investments in overseas Group assets are treated as a hedge Fair value of investments in own shares Equity collar – 3 6 – 7 8
against the relevant net assets and exchange gains or losses are The Group had at 31st December 2003 investments in own shares
recorded in reserves. of £2,775 million (2002 – £2,826 million) with a fair value of Auction rate preference stock (224) (224) (248) (248)
£2,276 million (2002 – £2,161 million). The difference between Flexible auction market preferred stock (279) (279) (311) (316)
Interest rate risk management the carrying amount and the fair value represents an unrealised Total non-equity minority interests (503) (503) (559) (564)
To manage the fixed/floating interest rate profile of debt, the Group loss of £499 million. This valuation shortfall is not considered to
Total financial assets and liabilities (1,792) (1,691) (2,597) (2,552)
had several interest rate swaps outstanding with commercial banks represent a permanent diminution in value in the context of the
at 31st December 2003. length of the future period over which the related share options Total financial assets 4,291 4,437 3,035 3,196
may be exercised. Accordingly no provision has been made. These Total financial liabilities (6,083) (6,128) (5,632) (5,748)
Concentrations of credit risk and credit exposures of investments are excluded from financial instrument disclosure.
Where appropriate currency and interest rate swaps have been presented alongside the underlying principal instrument. The carrying
financial instruments The fair value is the market value based on quoted market price.
amounts of these instruments have been adjusted for the effect of the currency and interest rate swaps acting as hedges.
The Group does not believe it is exposed to major concentrations
The shares represent purchases by Employee Share Ownership
of credit risk on its financial instruments. The Group is exposed to The difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of equity (fixed and current assets) and liquid investments represents gross
Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under
credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by unrealised gains of £75 million and £16 million, respectively.
employee incentive schemes. The purchases are matched against
counterparties to financial instruments, but does not expect any
options at pre-determined exercise prices and the gain or loss to
counterparties to fail to meet their obligations.
be recognised is measured against exercise price rather than
market value.124 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 125
32 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued 32 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Currency and interest rate risk profile of financial liabilities Currency exposure of net monetary assets/(liabilities)
Financial liabilities, after taking account of currency and interest rate swaps, are analysed below. The Group’s currency exposures that give rise to net currency gains and losses that are recognised in the profit and loss account arise
principally in companies with sterling functional currency. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in overseas functional currency,
Total financial liabilities comprise total borrowings of £5,103 million (2002 – £4,643 million), other creditors due after one year of
and borrowings designated as a hedge against overseas net assets, are excluded from the table below.
£232 million (2002 – £206 million), provisions of £245 million (2002 – £224 million) and non-equity minority interest preference shares
of £503 million (2002 – £559 million). Creditors due within one year have been excluded.
At 31st December 2003
The benchmark rate for determining interest payments for all floating rate financial liabilities in the tables below is LIBOR. Functional currency of Group operation
Net monetary assets/(liabilities)
Sterling US$ Euro Yen Other Total
Fixed rate Floating rate Non-interest bearing held in non-functional currency £m £m £m £m £m £m
Weighted Weighted Sterling – 157 (30) – 242 369
average average Weighted
US dollars 41 – 12 – 45 98
At 31st December 2003 interest years for average
rate which rate years to Total Euro (55) 111 – – 6 62
Currency £m % is fixed £m £m maturity £m Japanese Yen 7 (1) – – – 6
US dollars 279 6.1 2.1 2,514 311 10.5 3,104 Other (145) (55) (12) – – (212)
Sterling 1,478 6.4 20.4 14 100 4.1 1,592
(152) 212 (30) – 293 323
Euro 3 – – 750 34 5.6 787
Japanese Yen 463 0.5 4.3 52 – – 515
Other currencies 14 – – 39 32 4.8 85 At 31st December 2002 Functional currency of Group operation
Net monetary assets/(liabilities)
2,237 5.1 14.7 3,369 477 8.4 6,083 Sterling US$ Euro Yen Other Total
held in non-functional currency £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed rate Floating rate Non-interest bearing Sterling – (144) (14) 18 (48) (188)
Weighted Weighted US dollars (708) – 54 (1) (63) (718)
average average Weighted Euro 184 (6) – – (11) 167
At 31st December 2002 interest years for average Japanese Yen 10 – 2 – – 12
rate which rate years to Total
Currency £m % is fixed £m £m maturity £m Other (354) (10) 1 (1) – (364)
US dollars 471 2.6 0.7 2,974 325 7.8 3,770 (868) (160) 43 16 (122) (1,091)
Sterling 1,472 6.4 21.5 4 64 1.6 1,540
Euro – – – 64 13 1.3 77
Non-equity
Japanese Yen 144 0.7 1.2 – – – 144 Finance minority Total Total
Debt leases interests Other 2003 2002
Other currencies – – – 73 28 3.6 101 Maturity of financial liabilities £m £m £m £m £m £m
2,087 4.2 9.8 3,115 430 6.4 5,632 Within one year or on demand 1,451 1 503 77 2,032 2,201
Between one and two years 560 2 – 68 630 514
Currency and interest rate risk profile of financial assets Between two and five years 1,478 4 – 115 1,597 996
Total financial assets comprise fixed asset equity investments of £98 million (2002 – £125 million), current asset equity investments After five years 1,601 6 – 217 1,824 1,921
of £164 million (2002 – £161 million), liquid investments of £2,493 million (2002 – £1,256 million), cash at bank of £962 million 5,090 13 503 477 6,083 5,632
(2002 – £1,052 million), and debtors due after one year of £522 million (2002 – £308 million) but exclude foreign exchange derivatives
of £52 million (2002 – £133 million).
The benchmark rate for determining interest receipts for all floating rate assets in the table below is LIBOR. 2003
Gains Losses Net
At 31st December 2003 Fixed Floating Non-interest Hedges £m £m £m
rate rate bearing Total Unrecognised gains and losses at the beginning of the year 112 (1) 111
Currency £m £m £m £m
Unrecognised gains and losses arising in the year 59 (59) –
US dollars 300 1,248 479 2,027
Total unrecognised gains and losses at the end of the year 171 (60) 111
Sterling 20 1,209 60 1,289
Euro 1 328 77 406
Expected to be recognised within one year 27 – 27
Japanese Yen – 1 33 34
Expected to be recognised after one year 144 (60) 84
Other currencies 103 293 87 483
Total unrecognised gains and losses at the end of the year 171 (60) 111
424 3,079 736 4,239
The unrecognised gains and losses above represent the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the currency swaps,
At 31st December 2002 Fi rx ae td e Float ri an tg e Non- bin et ae rr ie ns gt Total interest rate swaps, equity collar and other foreign exchange derivatives.
Currency £m £m £m £m
US dollars 365 1,275 290 1,930 Committed facilities
Sterling 20 123 28 171 The Group has committed facilities to back up the commercial paper programme of £784 million (2002 – £872 million) of 364 days
Euro 41 299 22 362 duration renewable annually. At 31st December 2003, undrawn committed facilities totalled £784 million (2003 – US$1,404 million,
Japanese Yen 7 2 24 3 3 2002 – US$1,404 million).
Other currencies 23 323 60 406
456 2,022 424 2,902126 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 127
33 Employee costs 2003 2002 2001 33 Employee costs continued
£m £m £m
Pension costs for accounting purposes have been assessed in accordance with independent actuarial advice, generally using the projected
Wages and salaries 3,999 3,876 3,664
unit method and by spreading surpluses or deficits over the average expected remaining service lives of the respective memberships. In
Social security costs 444 385 344
certain countries pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some administered by trustee companies. Where assets are not held
Pension and other post-retirement costs 386 257 228
with the specific purpose of matching the liabilities of unfunded schemes, a provision is included within provisions for pensions and other
Cost of share-based incentive plans (36) 135 147
post-retirement benefits. Liabilities are generally assessed annually in accordance with the advice of independent actuaries.
Severance costs arising from integration and restructuring activities 222 228 245
Pension and other post-retirement costs arising from integration and restructuring activities 43 59 58 The market value of the assets of the Group’s funded defined benefit pension funds at the dates of the latest actuarial valuations, some
5,058 4,940 4,686 of which date back to 2000, was £4.5 billion and the actuarial value of assets was sufficient to cover approximately 82 per cent of the
benefits that had accrued to members after allowing for future salary and pension increases. The UK defined benefit pension schemes
The Group provides benefits to employees, commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including, in some markets, healthcare account for approximately 65 per cent of the Group’s plans in asset valuation and projected benefit terms and the US defined benefit pension
insurance, subsidised car schemes and personal life assurance. schemes account for approximately 25 per cent of the Group’s plans in asset valuation and projected benefit terms.
The £36 million credit in relation to share-based incentive plans includes the benefit of the introduction of discounting to the provision During 2003, the Group made special funding contributions to the UK and US pension schemes totalling £368 million. The Group has
established for the cost of the programme to encourage employees to convert Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline Beecham share options into agreed with the trustees of certain of the pension schemes to make additional contributions dependent on the funding status of those
GlaxoSmithKline share options (see page 109). schemes. Pension costs are expected to be approximately the same in 2004 as in 2003.
Information on Directors’ remuneration is given in the Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 58.
UK
In the UK the defined benefit pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former SmithKline
2003 2002 2001
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year Number Number Number Beecham employees remain separate. These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and subsequent UK employees are entitled to
Manufacturing 34,265 36,548 37,154 join a defined contribution scheme. The relevant assumptions used in calculating the pension costs of both the former Glaxo Wellcome
Selling, general and administration 54,128 54,810 55,655 and former SmithKline Beecham UK defined benefit schemes for accounting purposes are as follows:
Research and development 14,773 14,808 15,090 2003 2002
% pa % pa
103,166 106,166 107,899
Rate of increase of future earnings 3.75 4.00
The average number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. Discount rate 7.75 8.00
Expected long-term rate of return on investments 7.75 8.00
The numbers of Group employees at the end of each financial year are given in the Financial record (page 158).
Expected pension increases 2.25 2.50
UK equity dividend growth n/a 5.00
2003 2002 2001
Pension and other post-retirement costs £m £m £m
The regular cost for the Glaxo Wellcome pension arrangements in 2003 was £60 million, which reduced to an accounting cost of
UK pension schemes 113 18 16
£54 million, after allowance was made for spreading the surplus disclosed as a level percentage of salary over the expected future working
US pension schemes 75 86 70
lifetime of the existing members (some 11 years). The most recent triennial actuarial valuations for funding purposes were carried out as
Other overseas pensions schemes 74 52 57
at 31st December 2002. At that date the assets of the schemes represented 92 per cent of the actuarial value of all benefits accrued to
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 100 61 57
members after allowing for future salary and pension increases. The total market value of the assets held by the schemes at
Post-employment costs 24 40 28
31st December 2002 was £2,093 million.
386 257 228
The regular cost for the SmithKline Beecham schemes in 2003 was £15 million, which increased to an accounting cost of £59 million
Analysed as:
after allowance was made for the spreading of the deficit over the expected future working lifetime of current employees in the scheme
Funded defined benefit/hybrid schemes 213 92 107
(some 11 years). The latest valuation was carried out at 31st December 2002 and at that date the scheme assets represented 56 per cent
Unfunded defined benefit schemes 24 34 13
of the actuarial value of the accrued service liabilities based on the 2003 assumptions. The total market value of assets held by the scheme
Defined contribution schemes 25 30 23
at 31st December 2002 was £856 million.
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 100 61 57
Post-employment costs 24 40 28
USA
386 257 228 In the USA the former Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham defined benefit and hybrid schemes were merged during 2001. The
Pension and other post-retirement costs arising from integration and restructuring 43 59 58 relevant assumptions used in calculating the pension costs for accounting purposes are as follows:
2003 2002
% pa % pa
Pensions
Group undertakings operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees. Rate of increase of future earnings 5.50 5.50
These arrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be provided Discount rate 8.50 9.50
by state schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds arising from Expected long-term rate of return on investments 8.50 9.50
contributions paid in respect of each employee, or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based on employee Cash balance credit/conversion rate 5.75 6.50
pensionable remuneration and length of service. Some defined benefit schemes now also include defined contribution sections and US equity dividend growth n/a 7.75
are described as ‘hybrid’ schemes in the table.
The regular cost for the main US scheme in 2003 was £58 million, which increased to an accounting cost of £78 million after allowance
In the majority of cases the contributions to defined benefit schemes are determined in accordance with the advice of independent, was made for the spreading of the deficit over the expected future working lifetime of current employees in the schemes. The latest
professionally qualified actuaries. Formal, independent, actuarial valuations of the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally valuation was carried out at 1st January 2003 and at that date the actuarial value of scheme assets represented 94 per cent of the actuarial
at least every three years. The assets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts or are insured. Assets are value of the accrued service liabilities. The total market value of assets held by the scheme at 1st January 2003 was £1,362 million.
invested in different classes in order to maintain a balance between risk and return. Investments are diversified to limit the financial effect
of the failure of any individual investment. Post-retirement healthcare
The Group operates a number of post-retirement healthcare schemes, the principal one of which is in the USA. The cost of the US scheme
has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension scheme, together with the assumption for future medical inflation of
11 per cent reducing by one per cent per year to five per cent. The total provision for post-retirement benefits at 31st December 2003
amounted to £569 million (2002 – £577 million).128 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 129
33 Employee costs continued 33 Employee costs continued
FRS 17 disclosures UK USA Rest of World Group
The Group continues to account for pension arrangements in accordance with SSAP 24 ‘Accounting for Pension Costs’. Under the Average
At 31st December 2001 Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
transitional provisions of FRS 17 ‘Retirement Benefits’ certain disclosures are required on the basis of the valuation methodology adopted of return value of return value of return value value
by FRS 17. For defined benefit schemes the fair values of pension scheme assets at 31st December 2003 are compared with the future % £m % £m % £m £ m
pension liabilities calculated under the projected unit method applying the following assumptions: Equities 8.50 3,234 9.50 1,220 7.25 193 4,647
Property – – 8.00 54 7.50 3 57
UK USA Rest of World Bonds 5.00 411 7.00 250 5.00 107 768
2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 2001 Other assets 4.50 70 5.00 12 3.25 10 92
% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Fair value of assets 3,715 1,536 313 5,564
Rate of increase of future earnings 4.00 3.75 4.00 5.50 5.50 5.50 3.00 3.00 3.50
Present value of scheme liabilities (3,970) (1,781) (527) (6,278)
Discount rate 5.25 5.75 6.00 6.25 6.75 7.25 4.75 4.75 4.75
Expected pension increases 2.50 2.25 2.50 n/a n/a n/a 2.00 1.50 1.00 (255) (245) (214) (714)
Cash balance credit/conversion rate n/a n/a n/a 5.25 5.75 6.25 1.50 n/a n/a Value of schemes in surplus 42 24 66
Inflation rate 2.50 2.25 2.50 2.50 2.25 3.50 1.50 1.50 1.50 Deferred tax liability (13) (7) (20)
29 17 46
The expected long-term rates of return on the assets determined based on actuarial advice and the fair values of the assets and liabilities of
the UK and US defined benefit schemes, together with aggregated data for other defined benefit schemes in the Group are as follows: Value of schemes in deficit (297) (245) (238) (780)
Deferred tax asset 89 93 95 277
UK USA Rest of World Group
(208) (152) (143) (503)
Average
At 31st December 2003 Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair Group total (457)
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £ m
Equities 8.25 2,927 8.50 1,201 7.75 174 4,302 The UK defined benefit schemes also have defined contribution sections with account balances totalling £327 million at 31st December
Property – – 6.50 52 6.50 6 58 2003 (2002 – £281 million, 2001 – £263 million). The defined benefit sections of the UK schemes have been closed to new members and,
Bonds 4.50 574 5.75 314 4.00 226 1,114 under the projected unit method of valuing the pension scheme liabilities, the current service cost will increase as a percentage of payroll
Other assets 4.00 185 1.00 26 2.00 18 229 as the members of the schemes approach retirement. The deficits under FRS 17 reflect the different basis for valuing liabilities compared
Fair value of assets 3,686 1,593 424 5,703 with SSAP 24.
Present value of scheme liabilities (5,181) (1,743) (674) (7,598)
The liability under FRS 17 for the US post-retirement healthcare scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US
(1,495) (150) (250) (1,895) pension scheme, together with the assumption for future medical inflation of 10 per cent, reducing by one per cent per year to
Value of schemes in surplus 7 7 five per cent. On this basis the liability for the US scheme has been assessed at £908 million (2002 – £766 million; 2001 – £787 million),
Deferred tax liability (2) (2) which reduced to £590 million (2002 – £475 million; 2001 – £488 million) after taking account of deferred tax.
5 5 If the defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit schemes had been accounted for under FRS 17, the following amounts would
Value of schemes in deficit (1,495) (150) (257) (1,902) have been recorded in the profit and loss account and statement of total recognised gains and losses for the two years ended
Deferred tax asset 449 53 9 5 597 31st December 2003.
(1,046) (97) (162) (1,305)
Post-retirement
Group total (1,300)
Pensions benefits
2003 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
Other assets in the UK schemes include the special cash contribution paid in December 2003. This will be invested in equities and bonds in £m £m £m £m £m
2004.
Amounts charged to operating profit
UK USA Rest of World Group Current service cost (108) (67) (44) (219) (29)
Average Past service cost – 7 16 23 3
At 31st December 2002 Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
Curtailments/settlements (78) (15) – (93) –
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
(186) (75) (28) (289) (26)
Equities 8.25 2,523 9.25 804 6.75 172 3,499
Property – – 7.00 53 7.00 5 58 Amounts credited/(charged) to net interest
Bonds 4.50 299 6.25 265 4.50 145 709 Expected return on pension scheme assets 231 111 17 359
Other assets 4.00 137 1.50 240 1.75 9 386 Interest on scheme liabilities (246) (119) (25) (390) (64)
Fair value of assets 2,959 1,362 331 4,652 (15) (8) (8) (31) (64)
Present value of scheme liabilities (4,153) (1,782) (578) (6,513)
Amounts recorded in statement of total
(1,194) (420) (247) (1,861)
recognised gains and losses
Value of schemes in surplus 11 11 Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 368 230 10 608
Deferred tax liability (3) (3) Experience (losses)/gains arising on scheme liabilities (193) 5 (28) (216) (123)
8 8 Changes in assumptions relating to present
value of scheme liabilities (616) (61) (32) (709) (67)
Value of schemes in deficit (1,194) (420) (258) (1,872)
Deferred tax asset 358 147 97 602 (441) 174 (50) (317) (190)
(836) (273) (161) (1,270)
Group total (1,262)130 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 131
33 Employee costs continued 33 Employee costs continued
Post-retirement
Post-retirement Pensions benefits
Pensions benefits
History of experience gains and losses UK USA Rest of World Group Group
2002 UK USA Rest of World Group Group £m £m £m £m £m
£m £m £m £m £m
2003
Amounts charged to operating profit
Difference between the expected and actual
Current service cost (118) (74) (32) (224) (24)
return on scheme assets (£m) 368 230 10 608
Past service cost (28) (34) – (62) –
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2003 10% 14% 2% 11%
Curtailments/settlements – – (1) (1) –
(146) (108) (33) (287) (24) Experience (losses)/gains of scheme liabilities (£m) (193) 5 (28) (216) (123)
Percentage of present value of scheme liabilities
Amounts credited/(charged) to net interest at 31st December 2003 4% – 4% 3% 13%
Expected return on pension scheme assets 293 129 14 436
Interest on scheme liabilities (235) (129) (22) (386) (53) Total amount recognised in statement of total
recognised gains and losses (£m) (441) 174 (50) (317) (190)
58 – (8) 50 (53)
Percentage of present value of scheme
Amounts recorded in statement of total liabilities at 31st December 2003 9% 10% 7% 4% 19%
recognised gains and losses
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets (1,024) (293) (56) (1,373) 2002
Experience gains/(losses) arising on scheme liabilities 34 (3) 2 33 95 Difference between the expected and actual
Changes in assumptions relating to present return on scheme assets (£m) (1,024) (293) (56) (1,373)
value of scheme liabilities (15) (57) 10 (62) (124) Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2002 35% 22% 17% 30%
(1,005) (353) (44) (1,402) (29)
Experience gains/(losses) of scheme liabilities (£m) 34 (3) 2 33 95
Percentage of present value of scheme liabilities
at 31st December 2002 1% – – 1% 11%
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits Total amount recognised in statement of total
Movements in deficits UK USA Rest of World Group Group recognised gains and losses (£m) (1,005) (353) (44) (1,402) (29)
£m £m £m £m £m
Percentage of present value of scheme
Deficits in schemes at 1st January 2002 (255) (245) (214) (714) (854) liabilities at 31st December 2002 24% 20% 8% 22% 3%
Exchange adjustments – 37 (9) 28 85
Charged to operating profit (146) (108) (33) (287) (24)
Employer contributions 154 249 61 464 41 If the FRS 17 valuation basis had been applied in the financial statements instead of the SSAP 24 valuation basis, the effect on the profit
Other finance income/(expense) 58 – (8) 50 (53) and loss account reserve after taking account of deferred tax would have been as follows:
Actuarial losses recognised in statement of total
recognised gains and losses (1,005) (353) (44) (1,402) (29) 2003 2002
Deficits in schemes at 31st December 2002 (1,194) (420) (247) (1,861) (834) £m £m £m £m
Exchange adjustments – 20 (15) 5 96 Profit and loss account reserve per balance sheet 4,044 2,946
Charged to operating profit (186) (75) (28) (289) (26) Pension liability under FRS 17 (1,300) (1,262)
Employer contributions 341 159 98 598 41 Pension asset/(liability) under SSAP 24 per balance sheet 152 (39)
Other finance income/(expense) (15) (8) (8) (31) (64) (1,452) (1,223)
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in statement of total Post-retirement healthcare schemes under FRS 17 (638) (545)
recognised gains and losses (441) 174 (50) (317) (190) Post-retirement healthcare schemes provision per balance sheet (372) (378)
Deficits in schemes at 31st December 2003 (1,495) (150) (250) (1,895) (977) (266) (167)
Profit and loss account reserve including FRS 17 pension and post-retirement healthcare liability 2,326 1,556132 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 133
34 Employee share schemes 34 Employee share schemes continued
The company operates share option schemes, whereby options are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADSs in GlaxoSmithKline plc
Options outstanding Share option Share option Savings-related
at the grant price, and share award schemes, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADSs in GlaxoSmithKline plc schemes – shares schemes – ADSs share option schemes
at 31st December 2003
at no cost, subject to the achievement of performance targets.
Weighted Latest Weighted Latest Weighted Latest
Number exercise exercise Number exercise exercise Number exercise exercise
The company operates share option schemes and savings-related share option schemes. Grants under share option schemes are normally Year of grant (000) price date (000) price date (000) price date
exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant. Grants under savings-related share option schemes are normally
1994 3,113 £5.06 22.11.04 754 $14.53 22.11.04 – – –
exercisable after three years’ saving.
1995 4,518 £7.14 15.11.05 781 $21.70 15.11.05 – – –
Options under the share option schemes are normally granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant. In accordance with UK 1996 5,015 £8.41 01.12.06 1,188 $27.58 21.11.06 – – –
practice, the majority of options under the savings-related share option schemes are granted at a price 20 per cent below the market price 1997 9,133 £11.64 13.11.07 4,439 $40.31 13.11.07 – – –
ruling at the date of grant. In accordance with the exemption granted in UITF 17 (Revised) no charge to the profit and loss account is 1998 18,170 £16.94 23.11.08 6,549 $54.25 23.11.08 – – –
made in relation to these savings-related share option schemes. 1999 19,054 £18.18 01.12.09 8,164 $60.13 24.11.09 – – –
2000 20,690 £14.95 11.09.10 489 $58.23 09.08.10 192 £16.48 31.05.04
Options outstanding Share option Share option Savings-related 2001 61,150 £18.10 28.11.11 38,600 $51.83 28.11.11 343 £14.12 31.05.05
schemes – shares schemes – ADSs share option schemes 2002 32,696 £11.90 03.12.12 22,096 $37.54 03.12.12 8,635 £9.16 31.05.06
Weighted Weighted Weighted 2003 32,166 £12.66 15.12.13 23,469 $43.37 15.12.13 1,413 £10.20 31.05.07
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
(000) price (000) price (000) price Total 205,705 £14.89 106,529 $46.58 10,583 £9.59
At 31st December 2000 137,595 £13.68 37,962 $44.10 8,276 £12.34
All of the above options are exercisable, except all options over shares and ADSs granted in 2001, 2002 and 2003 and the savings-related
Options granted 67,763 £17.98 42,034 $51.82 4,443 £14.12
share options granted in 2001, 2002 and 2003.
Options exercised (21,332) £10.36 (4,705) $13.06 (3,075) £8.48
Options cancelled (4,090) £14.68 (1,466) $52.40 (1,444) £15.90 There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year. No further options were granted
At 31st December 2001 179,936 £15.67 73,825 $50.31 8,200 £14.13 between 31st December 2003 and 27th February 2004.
Options granted 33,454 £11.91 22,991 $37.57 9,793 £9.16
Options exercised (8,857) £10.55 (1,504) $21.75 (398) £14.04 Options exercisable Share option Share option Savings-related
schemes – shares schemes – ADSs share option schemes
Options cancelled (7,061) £17.53 (4,435) $54.69 (4,607) £14.41
Weighted Weighted Weighted
At 31st December 2002 197,472 £15.20 90,877 $47.34 12,988 £10.29 Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
Options granted 32,750 £12.84 23,630 $43.34 1,416 £10.20 (000) price (000) price (000) price
Options exercised (4,728) £4.75 (1,828) $22.22 (112) £10.23 At 31st December 2001 85,601 £14.10 32,373 $48.36 289 £14.29
Options cancelled (19,789) £7.45 (6,150) $32.73 (3,709) £12.23
At 31st December 2002 72,611 £14.33 27,129 $48.89 2,227 £13.27
At 31st December 2003 205,705 £14.89 106,529 $46.58 10,583 £9.59
Range of exercise prices £3.61 – £19.77 $12.87 – $61.35 £9.16 – £16.48
At 31st December 2003 79,693 £14.56 22,364 $49.82 192 £16.48
In order to encourage employees to convert options, excluding savings-related share options, held over Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline
GlaxoSmithKline share award schemes
Beecham shares or ADSs, into those over GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADSs, a programme was established to give an additional cash benefit
The Group operates a Performance Share Plan whereby awards are granted to Directors and senior executives at no cost. The percentage
of ten per cent of the exercise price of the original option provided that the employee does not voluntarily leave the Group for two years
of each award that vests is based upon the performance of the Group over a three year measurement period. The performance conditions
from the date of the merger and does not exercise the option before the earlier of six months from the expiry date of the original option
consist of two parts, each of which applies to 50 per cent of the award. The first part of the condition compares GlaxoSmithKline’s Total
and two years from the date of the merger. The cash benefit will also be paid if the options expire unexercised if the market price is below
Shareholder Return (TSR) over the period with the TSR of companies in the UK FTSE 100 Index over the same period. The second part of
the exercise price on the date of expiry.
the performance condition compares GlaxoSmithKline’s earnings per share growth to the increase in the UK Retail Prices Index over the
three year performance period.
Shares ADSs
Number of shares and ADSs issuable Number (000) Number (000)
At 31st December 2000 3,491 1,386
Awards granted 1,778 1,042
Awards exercised (2,016) (598)
Awards cancelled (72) (70)
At 31st December 2001 3,181 1,760
Awards granted 863 477
Awards exercised (728) (197)
Awards cancelled (152) (97)
At 31st December 2002 3,164 1,943
Awards granted 1,070 832
Awards exercised (625) (189)
Awards cancelled (109) (107)
At 31st December 2003 3,500 2,479134 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 135
34 Employee share schemes continued 36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles Additionally, the Group reassesses the useful lives of existing
recognised intangible assets. Intangible assets deemed to have
Employee Share Ownership Trusts The analyses and reconciliations presented in this Note represent
indefinite lives are no longer amortised, instead they are tested
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc to satisfy awards made under the financial information prepared on the basis of US Generally
annually for potential impairment. Separable intangible assets with
employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the Employee Share Ownership Accepted Accounting Principles (US GAAP) rather than UK GAAP.
finite lives continue to be amortised over their useful lives.
Trusts purchase shares on the open market with finance provided by the Group by way of loans or contributions. The expected cost of the
obligations to deliver shares under the schemes are normally spread over the periods of service in respect of which the awards and options Summary of material differences between UK and US GAAP The Group adopted SFAS 142 as of 1st January 2002. The
are granted. An accelerated charge was made in 2000 in respect of the outstanding cost of providing shares for awards and options which Acquisition of SmithKline Beecham implementation of SFAS 142 resulted in no impairment of the
became exercisable solely as a result of the merger. The combination of Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham Group’s goodwill and an initial impairment of £173 million (£127
plc was accounted for as a merger (pooling of interests) in million net of tax) on indefinite-lived assets. This is shown as a
Shares held for share award schemes 2003 2002 accordance with UK GAAP. Under US GAAP, this business cumulative effect of an accounting change.
combination did not qualify for pooling of interests accounting
Number of shares (000) 7,748 7,055 Under UK GAAP, costs to be incurred in integrating and
and Glaxo Wellcome was determined to be the accounting
restructuring the Wellcome, SmithKline Beecham and Block Drug
acquirer in a purchase business combination.
£m £m businesses following the acquisitions in 1995, 2000 and 2001
Nominal value 2 2 Accordingly the net assets of SmithKline Beecham were fair valued respectively were charged to the profit and loss account post
Cost less provision 92 75 as at the date of acquisition. As a result of the fair value exercise, acquisition. Under US GAAP, certain of such costs were considered
Market value 99 84 increases in the values of SmithKline Beecham’s inventory, tangible in the allocation of purchase consideration thereby affecting the
fixed assets, investments and pension obligations were recognised goodwill arising on acquisition.
Shares held for share option schemes 2003 2002 and fair market values attributed to its intangible assets, mainly
Under UK GAAP certain intangible assets related to specific
product rights (inclusive of patents and trade marks), assembled
Number of shares (000) 170,066 174,256 compounds or products which are purchased from a third party
workforce and in-process research and development, together with
and are developed for commercial applications are capitalised.
£m £m appropriate deferred taxation effects. The difference between the
Under US GAAP, payments made for these compounds or products
cost of acquisition and the fair value of the assets and liabilities of
Nominal value 43 44 which are still in development and have not yet received regulatory
SmithKline Beecham has been recorded as goodwill.
Cost less provision 2,683 2,751 approval are charged directly to profit and loss until such time
Market value 2,177 2,077 Capitalised interest that they receive regulatory approval.
Under UK GAAP, the Group does not capitalise interest. US GAAP
The Trusts also acquire and hold shares to meet notional dividends re-invested on deferred awards under the SmithKline Beecham
requires interest incurred as part of the cost of constructing fixed Restructuring costs
Mid-Term Incentive Plan. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trusts.
assets to be capitalised and amortised over the life of the asset. Under UK GAAP, restructuring costs incurred following acquisitions
were charged to the profit and loss account post acquisition. For
Option pricing Computer software
US GAAP purposes, certain of these costs were recognised as
For the purposes of valuing options to arrive at the stock-based compensation adjustment in the Reconciliation to US accounting principles Under UK GAAP, the Group capitalises costs incurred in acquiring
liabilities upon acquisition in the opening balance sheet.
in Note 36, the Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used. The assumptions used in the model for 2003 and 2002 are as follows: and developing computer software for internal use where the
software supports a significant business system and the Other restructuring costs are recorded as a provision under UK
2003 2002 expenditure leads to the creation of a durable asset. For US GAAP when a restructuring plan has been announced. Under US
Risk-free interest rate 4.2% – 4.9% 4.2% – 5.4% GAAP, the Group applies SOP 98-1 ‘Accounting for the Costs of GAAP subsequent to 31st December 2002, a provision may only
Dividend yield 2.9% 1.9% Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use’ be recognised when further criteria are met or the liability
Volatility 34% 33% which restricts the categories of costs which can be capitalised. incurred. Accordingly, adjustments have been made to eliminate
Expected lives of options granted under: the UK GAAP provisions for restructuring costs that do not meet
Goodwill and intangible fixed assets
Share option schemes 5 years 5 years US GAAP requirements.
Under UK GAAP, goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1998,
Savings related share option schemes 3 years 3 years
accounted for under the purchase method, has been eliminated
Marketable securities
against shareholders’ funds. Additionally, UK GAAP requires that
Marketable securities consist primarily of equity securities and
on subsequent disposal or closure of a business, any goodwill
35 Related party transactions certain other liquid investments. Under UK GAAP these securities
previously taken directly to shareholders’ funds is then charged
are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Under
GlaxoSmithKline held a 21 per cent interest in Quest Diagnostics Inc. throughout 2003. The Group and Quest Diagnostics are parties to a against income. Beginning in 1998, the Group changed its
US GAAP these securities are considered available for sale under
long-term contractual relationship under which Quest Diagnostics is the primary provider of clinical laboratory testing to support the Group’s accounting policy for goodwill and intangible assets under UK
SFAS 115 ‘Accounting for certain investments in debt and equity
clinical trials testing requirements worldwide. GAAP in respect of acquisitions from 1998. Under UK GAAP,
securities’ and are carried at fair value, with the unrealised gains
goodwill arising on acquisitions from 1998 is capitalised and
In 2003, both the Group and Shionogi & Co., Ltd. entered into transactions with their 50/50 US joint venture company in support of the and losses, net of tax, recorded as a separate component of
amortised over a period not exceeding 20 years.
research and development activities conducted by that joint venture company. During 2003, GlaxoSmithKline provided services to the joint shareholders’ equity.
venture of £1 million (2002 – £7 million). At 31st December 2003 the balance due to GlaxoSmithKline from the joint venture was £3 million Under US GAAP, goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to
Equity securities are reviewed at least annually for other than
(2002 – £8 million). 30 June 2001 was capitalised and amortised over a period not
temporary impairment. The factors considered are:
exceeding 40 years. In July 2001, the Financial Accounting
Dr Barzach, a Non-Executive Director of GlaxoSmithKline plc, received fees of €72,268 (2002 – €66,369) from a subsidiary of the company
Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting • the investee’s current financial performance and future
for healthcare consultancy provided. These are included within ’Annual remuneration’ in the Remuneration Report.
Standard (SFAS) 142 ‘Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets’. SFAS prospects
Dr Shapiro, a Non-Executive Director of GlaxoSmithKline plc, received fees of $85,000 (2002 – $85,000) of which $30,000 (2002 – $30,000) 142 requires that goodwill no longer be amortised over its • the general market condition of the geographic or industry
was in the form of ADSs, from a subsidiary of the company, for the membership of the Scientific Advisory Board. These are included within estimated useful life. The Group must instead identify and value its area in which the investee operates
‘Annual remuneration’ in the Remuneration Report. reporting units for the purpose of assessing, at least annually, • the duration and extent to which the market value (if
potential impairment of goodwill allocated to each reporting unit. available) has been below cost.
Gross unrealised gains and losses on marketable securities were
£68 million and £5 million respectively at 31st December 2003.136 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 137
36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued This requires that the Group recognises and measures, at fair value, 36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued Recent Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
on a prospective basis, certain guarantees issued or modified after pronouncements
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits Dividends
31st December 2002. Under UK GAAP such guarantor obligations In January 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP)
The key differences between UK (SSAP 24) and US GAAP in Under UK GAAP, dividends proposed are provided for in the year
are recognised when further additional criteria are met or the 106-1 ‘Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the
relation to defined benefit pension plans are: in respect of which they are recommended by the Board
liability is incurred. Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization
of Directors for approval by the shareholders. Under US GAAP,
• under UK GAAP the effect of variations in cost can be Act of 2003’ (Act). FSP 106-1 addresses the accounting
such dividends are not provided for until declared by the Board
accumulated at successive valuations and amortised on an Derivative instruments implications of the Act to an entity that sponsors a post­
of Directors.
aggregate basis. Under US GAAP the amortisation of the SFAS 133, ‘Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging retirement health care plan providing prescription drug benefits.
transition asset and the costs of past service benefit Activities’ as amended by SFAS 137 and SFAS 138 and as The Act introduces in the USA a prescription drug benefit under
Consolidated summary statement of cash flows
improvements are separately tracked: experience gains/losses interpreted by the Derivatives Implementation Group, was adopted Medicare as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of certain post­
The US GAAP cash flow statement reports changes in cash and
are dealt with on an aggregate basis but amortised only if by the Group with effect from 1st January 2001. SFAS 133 retirement health care plans. FSP 106-1 provides an election to
cash equivalents, which includes short-term highly liquid
outside a 10 per cent corridor establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative defer accounting for the implications of this new law until
investments with original maturities of three months or less.
instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in specific authoritative guidance is issued to address the
• UK GAAP allows measurements of plan assets and liabilities Only three categories of cash flows are reported: operating
other contracts (collectively, referred to as derivatives) and for accounting treatment. As a result of the current absence of
to be based on the result of the latest actuarial valuation. activities (including tax and interest); investing activities (including
hedging activities. Under UK GAAP, some derivative instruments guidance as to the accounting treatment, any measures of the
US GAAP requires measurement of plan assets and liabilities capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals together with
used for hedging are not recognised on the balance sheet and the accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation or net periodic
to be made at the date of the Financial statements or up to cash flows from available for sale current asset investments);
matching principle is used to match the gain or loss under these post-retirement benefit cost included in the reconciliation to US
three months prior to that date and financing activities (including dividends paid). A summary
hedging contracts to the foreign currency transaction or profits to accounting principles and accompanying notes do not reflect the
statement of cash flows is presented on page 139.
• the pension adjustment also includes the impact of changes which they relate. SFAS 133 requires that an entity recognise all effects of the Act. Authoritative guidance, when issued, could
in minimum pension liabilities included within accumulated derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the consolidated balance require a change in previously reported information.
Cash and cash equivalents
other comprehensive income. sheet and measure those instruments at fair value. Changes in fair
Under UK GAAP the cash balance includes only cash at bank and In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46),
value over the period are recorded in current earnings unless hedge
During 2002, the Group decided to align the measurement date other cash balances. Under US GAAP cash and cash equivalents ‘Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities’, and in December
accounting is obtained. The Group does not designate any of its
for all of its pension and post-retirement benefit plans to 31st include cash at bank and certain liquid investments with original 2003 issued FIN 46R, a revision of this interpretation. Under the
derivatives as qualifying hedge instruments under SFAS 133.
December as certain of the Group’s plans had a measurement maturities of three months or less. revised interpretation, certain entities, known as Variable Interest
SFAS 133 prescribes requirements for designation and documentation
date for assets and liabilities of 30th September. Entities (VIEs), must be consolidated by the ‘primary beneficiary’
of hedging relationships and ongoing assessments of effectiveness in
Comprehensive income statement of the entity. The primary beneficiary is generally defined as
The impact, reflected as a cumulative effect of an accounting order to qualify for hedge accounting.
The requirement of SFAS 130 ‘Reporting comprehensive income’ having the majority of the risks and rewards arising from the VIE.
change, was a £37 million credit, net of tax, to income.
The Group also evaluates contracts for ‘embedded’ derivatives, to provide a comprehensive income statement is met under Additionally, for VIEs in which a significant, but not majority,
and considers whether any embedded derivatives have to be UK GAAP by the Statement of total recognised gains and losses variable interest is held, certain disclosures are required. Certain
Stock-based compensation
bifurcated, or separated, from the host contracts in accordance (pages 88 and 89). measurement principles of this interpretation relating to newly
Under UK GAAP share options are accounted for as equity when
with SFAS 133 requirements. If embedded derivatives exist and formed VIEs are applicable to the financial statements for the
exercised, valued at the issuance price. Under US GAAP, the Group
are not clearly and closely related to the host contract, they are Reclassifications fiscal year ended 31st December 2003. The Group has evaluated
applies SFAS 123 ‘Accounting for stock-based compensation’ and
accounted for separately from the host contract as derivatives. Certain prior year balances have been reclassified for comparative all potential VIEs of such newly formed entities and did not
related accounting interpretations in accounting for its option plans
purposes. Certain amounts previously presented in aggregate in identify any items which would require adjustment to the
which require options to be fair valued at their grant date and Gains and losses related to the fair value adjustments of all
the reconciliation of profit under US GAAP to UK GAAP have been Financial statements. The remaining disclosure requirements in
included in profit and loss over the vesting period of the options. derivative instruments are classified in the consolidated statement
presented separately in the current year presentation to provide the interpretation are effective for subsequent Financial
of income and cash flows in accordance with the nature of the
The Group is entitled to receive a tax deduction for the amount more information related to these adjustments. statements beginning in 2004. GlaxoSmithKline has not yet
derivative.
treated as compensation under US tax rules for employee completed its assessment of the remaining relationships that
stock options which have been exercised by US employees during The fair value and book value of derivative instruments in respect Sales incentives could have an impact on the disclosures included in the
the year. Under UK GAAP this is treated as a reduction of tax of financial assets and liabilities as at 31st December 2003 is In accordance with UK GAAP, certain amounts paid by the Group subsequent Financial statements or on the results of operations
expense whereas under US GAAP a portion of this amount is disclosed in the ‘Classification and fair value of financial assets to its customers are recorded as promotional expense included in or financial position in those periods.
credited to equity. and liabilities’ table in Note 32. operating income. Under US GAAP, these items are recorded as a
reduction in revenue. While these items do not result in a net
Employee Share Ownership Trusts (ESOT) Valuation of derivative instruments impact to the income statement under US GAAP, the amount that
Under UK GAAP shares of the Group’s stock held by the ESOTs The fair value of derivative instruments is sensitive to movements would be classified as a reduction in revenue in 2003 would be
are recorded at cost, less a provision representing the difference in the underlying market rates and variables. The Group monitors £324 million.
between the cost and the option exercise price, and accounted the fair value of derivative instruments on at least a quarterly basis,
for as fixed asset investments. Projected losses on the exercise of with a formal review every six months. Derivatives including
the options covered by the shares are recorded through the profit interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps are valued using
and loss account over the life of the options. Under US GAAP standard valuation models, counterparty valuations, or third party
shares of the Group’s stock purchased by the ESOTs are accounted valuations. Standard valuation models used by the Group consider
for within shareholders’ equity at cost. Gains or losses arising on relevant discount rates, the market yield curve on the valuation
subsequent issuance of the shares to employees to satisfy share date, forward currency exchange rates and counterparty risk. All
options are recorded as adjustments to shareholders’ equity. significant rates and variables are obtained from market sources.
All valuations are based on the remaining term to maturity of the
Guarantor obligations instrument. Foreign exchange contracts are valued using forward
The Group adopted the FASB’s Financial Interpretation No. 45 rates observed from quoted prices in the relevant markets when
(FIN 45) ‘Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements possible. The Group assumes parties to long-term contracts are
for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of economically viable but reserves the right to exercise early
Others’ with effect from 1st January 2003. termination rights if economically beneficial when such rights exist
in the contract.138 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 139
36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued 36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
The following is a summary of the material adjustments to profit and shareholders’ funds which would be required if US GAAP had been 2003 2002
Equity shareholders’ funds Notes £m £m
applied instead of UK GAAP. These adjustments have been reflected in the income statements and balance sheets presented in
Equity shareholders’ funds under UK GAAP 7,720 6,581
accordance with US GAAP.
2003 2002 2001 US GAAP adjustments:
Profit Notes £m £m £m Goodwill (a) 17,986 17,989
Profit attributable to shareholders under UK GAAP 4,484 3,915 3,053 Product rights (b) 15,652 18,152
Capitalised interest 21 25 18 Pension intangible asset (b) 128 172
Computer software 7 20 (3) Tangible fixed assets 47 49
Goodwill amortisation reversal/(charge) including goodwill in associated undertakings (a) 19 18 (1,261) Capitalised interest 198 175
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (b) (2,292) (4,089) (2,226) Computer software (2) (9)
Acquisition of licences, patents etc. (b) (105) (181) (180) Marketable securities 84 113
Recognition of cost of sales on fair value step-up of inventory – – ( 298) Other investments 832 829
Disposal of purchased investment – – ( 117) Employee Share Ownership Trust (2,775) (2,826)
Product divestments 7 7 – Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (e) (1,702) (1,370)
Equity investments (31) (8) (75) Restructuring costs 92 (6)
Loss on disposal of subsidiary – – 204 Derivative instruments 26 98
Pensions and post-retirement benefits (e) (122) (138) (12) Guarantor obligations (21) –
Stock-based compensation (379) (331) (162) Dividends 808 754
Provision against ESOT shares 25 51 (108) Deferred taxation (d) (4,957) (5,779)
Derivative instruments (74) 8 15
Shareholders’ equity under US GAAP 34,116 34,922
Guarantor obligations (21) – –
Restructuring 98 37 182 Certain items for the year ended 31st December 2002 have been reclassified for comparative purposes.
Tax benefits on exercise of US stock options (c) (13) (13) (56)
Deferred taxation (c) 796 1,182 883 2003 2002 2001
Consolidated statement of cash flows under US GAAP £m £m £m
Net income/(loss) under US GAAP before cumulative effect of changes
Net cash provided by operating activities 4,895 5,345 4,606
in accounting principles 2,420 503 (143)
Net cash used in investing activities (904) (1,051) (1,685)
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles – (90) –
Net cash used in financing activities (3,051) (4,002) (3,483)
Net income/(loss) after cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 2,420 413 (143)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 940 292 (562)
Exchange rate movements (36) (42) 15
Certain items for the years ended 31st December 2002 and 31st December 2001 have been reclassified for comparative purposes.
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,082 832 1,379
2003 2002 2001 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 1,986 1,082 832
Earnings per share under US GAAP pence pence pence
Basic net income/(loss) per share before cumulative effect of changes
in accounting principles under US GAAP 41.7 8.5 (2.4) Notes to the Profit and Equity shareholders’ funds reconciliations
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles per share
(a) Goodwill
under US GAAP – (1.5) –
Basic net income/(loss) per share after cumulative effect of changes The following tables set out the UK to US GAAP adjustments required to the UK GAAP statement of profit and loss and balance sheet in
in accounting principles under US GAAP 41.7 7.0 (2.4) respect of goodwill:
Diluted net income/(loss) per share before cumulative effect of changes 2003 2002 2001
Income statement £m £m £m
in accounting principles under US GAAP 41.6 8.5 (2.4)
Amortisation under UK GAAP (including goodwill in respect of associated undertakings) (19) (18) (17)
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles per share
Amortisation under US GAAP (including goodwill in respect of associated undertakings) – – (1,278)
under US GAAP – (1.5) –
Diluted net income/(loss) per share after cumulative effect of changes UK to US GAAP adjustment for amortisation (including goodwill in respect of associated undertakings) 19 18 (1,261)
in accounting principles under US GAAP 41.6 7.0 (2.4)
2003 2002
Balance sheet £m £m
2003 2002 2001
Earnings per ADS under US GAAP $ $ $ Goodwill under UK GAAP 143 171
Goodwill under US GAAP 18,129 18,160
Basic net income/(loss) per ADS before cumulative effect of changes
in accounting principles under US GAAP 1.37 0.26 (0.07) UK to US GAAP adjustments 17,986 17,989
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles per ADS
under US GAAP – (0.05) – Of the £18,129 million (2002 - £18,160 million) US GAAP goodwill balance at 31st December 2003, £15,875 million (2002 - £15,875 million)
Basic net income/(loss) per ADS after cumulative effect of changes is in respect of the goodwill arising on the acquisition of SmithKline Beecham by Glaxo Wellcome in 2000.
in accounting principles under US GAAP 1.37 0.21 (0.07)
Diluted net income/(loss) per ADS before cumulative effect of changes
in accounting principles under US GAAP 1.36 0.26 (0.07)
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles per ADS
under US GAAP – (0.05) –
Diluted net income/(loss) per ADS after cumulative effect of changes
in accounting principles under US GAAP 1.36 0.21 (0.07)140 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 141
36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued 36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
The following tables present the changes in goodwill allocated to the Group’s reportable segments: The following intangible assets are subject to amortisation:
Consumer
2003 2002
Pharmaceuticals Healthcare Total
Product Product
£m £m £m
rights rights
At 31st December 2001 15,670 2,503 18,173 £m £m
Additions 23 – 23 Cost 21,329 21,271
Exchange adjustments (14) (22) (36) Accumulated amortisation (5,360) (3,751)
Impairment (2,735) (2,076)
At 31st December 2002 15,679 2,481 18,160
Additions 2 – 2 Net 13,234 15,444
Exchange adjustments (13) (20) (33)
Following the launch in the USA of a generic Paxil product, the carrying value of product rights relating to Paxil has been reviewed and an
At 31st December 2003 15,668 2,461 18,129
impairment of £633 million recorded. The carrying values of certain other product rights have also been reviewed and an impairment of
£25 million recorded. In 2002, impairments of £2,076 million were recorded, of which £1,667 million related to Augmentin which was
(b) Intangible assets impaired following the launch of a generic Augmentin product. Fair values are determined using a discounted cash flow model.
The following tables set out the UK to US GAAP adjustments required to the UK GAAP statement of profit and loss and balance sheet in As discussed in Note 30 ‘Legal proceedings’, a number of distributors of generic drugs have filed applications to market generic versions of
respect of intangible assets: anumber of the Group’s products prior to the expiration of the Group’s patents. If generic versions of products are launched in future
periods at earlier dates than the Group currently expects, impairments of the carrying value of the products may arise. The Group will
2003 2002 2001
Income statement £m £m £m continue to keep the position under review.
Amortisation and impairment charge under UK GAAP 115 106 100 The estimated future amortisation expense for the next five years for intangible assets subject to amortisation as of 31st December
Amortisation and impairment charge under US GAAP 2,407 4,368 2,326 2003 is as follows:
UK to US GAAP adjustment for amortisation and impairments 2,292 4,262 2,226
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle – (173) – Year £m
2004 1,492
UK to US GAAP adjustment for amortisation and impairments for the period 2,292 4,089 2,226
2005 1,492
2006 1,451
Following the initial implementation of SFAS 142 in 2002, the carrying value of the brands determined to have indefinite lives were reviewed
2007 1,437
and an impairment of £173 million (£127 million net of tax) was recognised. This was recorded as a cumulative effect of a change in
2008 1,437
accounting principle.
Total 7,309
In addition to the above adjustment for amortisation and impairments, a further UK to US GAAP adjustment arose during the year of
£105 million (2002 - £181 million; 2001 - £180 million) in respect of the acquisition of licences, patents etc. which are capitalised under UK
Intangible assets which are not subject to amortisation include a pension asset of £128 million at 31st December 2003 (£172 million at
GAAP but charged directly to profit and loss under US GAAP.
31st December 2002) and certain product rights. The intangible assets relating to product rights are analysed as follows:
2003 2002
Balance sheet £m £m 2003 2002
Intangible assets under UK GAAP 1,697 1,637 £m £m
Intangible assets under US GAAP 17,477 19,961 Cost 4,693 4,850
Impairment (578) (505)
UK to US GAAP adjustments 15,780 18,324
Less pensions intangible asset (128) (172) Net 4,115 4,345
Net UK to US GAAP product rights adjustments 15,652 18,152
An impairment charge of £108 million (2002 – £332 million) was recognised during 2003 as a result of changes in market conditions and
management forecasts for certain brand intangibles.
Intangible assets under US GAAP are analysed as follows:
2003 2002 If the Group had accounted for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets that have indefinite lives under SFAS 142 for the year ended 31st
£m £m
December 2001, the impact on reported US GAAP results would have been as follows:
Acquired products 12,054 14,292
2001
Licences, patents etc. 126 59 £m
Brands 5,169 5,438
Net income under US GAAP (143)
Pensions 128 172
Amortisation, net of tax:
Intangible assets under US GAAP 17,477 19,961 Goodwill 1,475
Brands 124
The following tables present details of the Group’s intangible assets, differentiating between those subject to amortisation and those which are Adjusted net income under US GAAP 1,456
not subject to amortisation:
Adjusted basic net income per share (pence) 24.0
2003 2002 Adjusted diluted net income per share (pence) 23.8
£m £m
Intangible assets subject to amortisation 13,234 15,444
Intangible assets not subject to amortisation 4,243 4,517
Intangible assets under US GAAP 17,477 19,961142 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 143
36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued 36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
(c) Taxation (e) Pensions and post-retirement costs under US GAAP
2003 2002 2001
2003 2002 2001
Total tax expense £m £m £m £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 278 103 26
UK GAAP:
US pension schemes 79 67 70
Current tax expense 2,001 1,432 1,386
Other overseas pension schemes 83 51 70
Deferred tax expense (262) 29 (53)
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 118 78 57
Total tax expense 1,739 1,461 1,333
Post-employment costs 24 40 28
US GAAP: 582 339 251
Current tax expense 2,014 1,445 1,442 Analysed as:
Deferred tax expense for the period (1,058) (1,153) (936) Funded defined benefit/hybrid schemes 389 149 123
Total tax expense for the period 956 292 506 Unfunded defined benefit schemes 26 48 11
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles – (34) – Defined contribution schemes 25 24 32
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 118 78 57
Total tax expense 956 258 506
Post-employment costs 24 40 28
UK to US GAAP adjustments: 582 339 251
Current tax expense 13 13 56
Deferred tax expense for the period (796) (1,182) (883)
The contributions for 2004 are estimated to be approximately £400 million.
Total tax expense for the period (783) (1,169) (827)
The disclosures below include the additional information required by SFAS 132. The pension costs of the UK, US and major overseas
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles – (34) –
defined benefit pension plans have been restated in the following tables in accordance with US GAAP. Pension costs in 2003 of £9 million
Total tax expense (783) (1,203) (827)
(2002 – £12 million; 2001 – £17 million), in respect of minor retirement plans, which have not been recalculated in accordance with the
requirements of SFAS 87, have been excluded.
(d) Deferred taxation under US GAAP
2003 2002 2001
The net periodic pension cost/(income) for the major retirement plans comprised: £m £m £m
Classification of GlaxoSmithKline’s deferred taxation liabilities and assets under US GAAP is as follows:
Service cost 211 219 194
2003 2002
£m £m Interest cost 392 388 351
Expected return on plan assets (408) (470) (508)
Liabilities
Amortisation of prior service cost 17 20 15
Stock valuation adjustment (52) (113)
Amortisation of transition obligation 3 (6) (9)
Current deferred taxation liabilities (52) (113)
Amortisation of net actuarial loss/(gain) 79 3 (57)
Accelerated capital allowances (689) (710)
Net periodic pension cost/(income) under US GAAP 294 154 (14)
Product rights (4,917) (5,620)
Termination benefits and curtailment costs 112 56 2
Other timing differences (115) (156)
Adjustment for change in accounting principle – (62) –
Total deferred taxation liabilities (5,773) (6,599)
Assets
During 2002, the Group decided to align the measurement date for all of its pension plans. As certain of the Group’s pension plans had
Intra-Group profit 485 487
a measurement date for pension assets and liabilities of 30th September, the Group elected to change the measurement date for these
Other timing differences 738 646
plans from 30th September to 31st December.
Current deferred taxation assets 1,223 1,133
2003 2002 2001
Asset disposal (59) (125) The major assumptions used in computing the above pension cost/(income) were: %pa %pa %pa
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 86 111
Rates of future pay increases 4.25 4.25 4.50
Tax losses 94 93
Discount rate 5.50 6.00 6.25
Manufacturing restructuring 13 52
Expected long-term rates of return on plan assets 7.50 7.75 8.25
Legal and other disputes 167 124
Other timing differences 127 63 In aggregate, average international plan assumptions did not vary significantly from US assumptions.
Total deferred taxation assets 1,651 1,451
Net deferred taxation under US GAAP (4,122) (5,148)
Net deferred taxation under UK GAAP 835 631
UK to US GAAP adjustment (4,957) (5,779)
The difference between the UK effective taxation rate and the US effective taxation rate is primarily related to the fair value adjustments
for goodwill and intangibles related to the acquisitions of Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham.144 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 145
36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued 36 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
Post-retirement healthcare under US GAAP
2003 2002
Change in benefit obligation £m £m The post-retirement healthcare costs of the UK, US and major overseas post-retirement healthcare schemes have been restated in the
Benefit obligation at beginning of year 6,760 6,372 following tables in accordance with US GAAP. Costs in 2003 of £13 million (2002 – £nil, 2001 – £5 million), which have not been
Adjustment for change in accounting principle – 153 recalculated, have been excluded.
Amendments (20) 24
2003 2002 2001
Service cost 211 219 Net healthcare cost £m £m £m
Interest cost 392 388
Service cost 29 23 15
Plan participants’ contributions 16 16
Interest cost 64 53 40
Actuarial loss 899 51
Amortisation of prior service cost (2) (1) (3)
Benefits paid (328) (324)
Amortisation of net actuarial loss 14 3 –
Termination benefits and curtailment costs 92 35
Net healthcare cost 105 78 52
Exchange (156) (174)
Benefit obligation at end of year 7,866 6,760
The major assumptions used in calculating the net healthcare cost were: %pa %pa %pa
Benefit obligation at end of year for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets 6,960 6,087
Rate of future healthcare inflation 10.0 to 5.0 11.0 to 5.0 7.0 to 5.0
Discount rate 6.25 6.75 7.25
The accumulated benefit obligation at 31st December 2003 was £7,391 million.
The rate of future healthcare inflation reflects the fact that the benefits of certain groups of participants are capped.
2003 2002
Change in plan assets £m £m
2003 2002
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 4,855 5,385 Change in benefit obligation £m £m
Adjustment for change in accounting principle – 383 Benefit obligation at beginning of year 830 788
Actual return on plan assets 979 (913) Adjustment for change in accounting principle – 13
Employer contribution 596 457 Amendments (3) –
Plan participants’ contributions 16 16 Service cost 29 77
Benefits paid (328) (324) Interest cost 64 53
Termination benefits and curtailment costs – (3) Plan participants’ contributions 8 9
Exchange (150) (146) Actuarial loss 192 24
Benefits paid (49) (50)
Fair value of plan assets at end of year 5,968 4,855
Exchange (96) (84)
Fair value of plan assets at end of year for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets 5,525 4,741
Benefit obligation at end of year 975 830
Plan assets consist primarily of investments in UK and overseas equities, fixed interest securities, securities linked to the UK Retail Prices
Index and property. At 31st December 2003 UK equities included 0.5 million GlaxoSmithKline shares (2002 – 2.1 million shares) with a Change in plan assets
market value of £7 million (2002 – £25 million).
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year – –
Employer and plan participants’ contributions 49 51
2003 2002
Funded status £m £m Benefits paid (49) (51)
Funded status (1,898) (1,905) Fair value of plan assets at end of year – –
Unrecognised net actuarial loss 2,123 1,932
Unrecognised prior service cost 96 145
Funded status
Unrecognised transition obligation 26 29
Funded status (975) (830)
Net amount recognised 347 201
Unrecognised net actuarial loss 371 230
Unrecognised prior service cost (17) (17)
2003 2002
Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position consist of: £m £m Accrued post-retirement healthcare cost (621) (617)
Prepaid benefit cost 18 2
Accrued pension liability (1,471) (1,419) 1% decrease 1% increase
Impact of a one per cent variation in the rate of future healthcare inflation £m £m
Intangible asset 128 172
Effect on total service and interest cost (7) 8
Accumulated other comprehensive income 1,672 1,446
Effect on provision for post-retirement benefits (76) 83
Net amount recognised 347 201146 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 147
37 Principal Group companies 37 Principal Group companies continued
The following represent the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of the GlaxoSmithKline Group at 31st December 2003. Europe Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity %
Details are given of the principal country of operation, the location of the headquarters, the business segment and the business activities. Netherlands Zeist GlaxoSmithKline BV Ph m
The equity share capital of these undertakings is wholly owned by the Group except where its percentage interest is shown otherwise. Zeist GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare BV CH m
All companies are incorporated in their principal country of operation except where stated.
Norway Oslo GlaxoSmithKline AS Ph m
Europe Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity % Poland Poznan GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA Ph m p 97
Warsaw GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare sp zoo CH m
England Greenford +Glaxo Group Ltd Ph h
Brentford +GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited Ph,CH h Portugal Lisbon GlaxoSmithKline-Produtos Farmaceuticos Lda Ph m
Brentford +GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited Ph,CH s Republic of Dublin GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Ireland) Limited (Footnote (i)) CH m
Brentford +SmithKline Beecham plc Ph,CH e h r d m p Ireland Carrigaline SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Ltd (Footnote (i)) Ph p
Brentford +Wellcome Limited Ph,CH h Carrigaline SmithKline Beecham (Manufacturing) Ltd (Footnote (i)) Ph p
Spain Burgos Glaxo Wellcome, SA Ph r m p
Brentford Glaxo Operations UK Ltd Ph p
Madrid SmithKline Beecham SA Ph m
Brentford Glaxo Wellcome International BV (Footnote (iii)) Ph,CH h
Brentford Glaxo Wellcome Investments BV (Footnote (iii)) Ph,CH h Sweden Mölndal GlaxoSmithKline AB Ph m
Stockley Park Glaxo Wellcome UK Ltd Ph h m p Switzerland Muenchenbuchsee GlaxoSmithKline Investments (Switzerland) GmbH Ph,CH h
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Export Ltd Ph e Muenchenbuchsee GlaxoSmithKline International (Switzerland) GmbH Ph,CH h
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Ltd Ph r d Muenchenbuchsee Glaxo Wellcome International (Footnote (i),(iv)) Ph,CH h
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline UK Ltd Ph m p Muenchenbuchsee GlaxoSmithKline AG Ph m
Brentford SmithKline Beecham (Investments) Ltd Ph,CH f Zug Adechsa GmbH Ph e
Brentford SmithKline Beecham (SWG) Ltd CH e m
Turkey Istanbul GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret AS Ph m p
Brentford SmithKline Beecham Research Ltd Ph m
Brentford Stafford-Miller Ltd CH m p
USA
Greenford The Wellcome Foundation Ltd Ph p
USA Philadelphia SmithKline Beecham Corporation Ph,CH e h r d m p s
Austria Vienna GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH Ph m
Pittsburgh GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare LP CH m p 88
Belgium Genval GlaxoSmithKline SA Ph m
New Jersey Block Drug Company, Inc CH h m p
Rixensart GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA Ph e r d p
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Financial Inc Ph,CH f
Rixensart GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Manufacturing SA Ph e p
Wilmington SmithKline Beecham Holdings Corporation Ph,CH h 79
Guernsey St. Peter Port SmithKline Beecham Ltd (formerly S.B. Insurance Ltd) Ph,CH i Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc Ph,CH h
Denmark Ballerup GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare A/S CH m
Brøndby GlaxoSmithKline Pharma a/s Ph m Americas
Finland Espoo GlaxoSmithKline Oy Ph m Bermuda Hamilton GlaxoSmithKline Insurance Ltd Ph,CH i
France Marly le Roi Groupe GlaxoSmithKline SAS Ph h Canada Mississauga GlaxoSmithKline Inc Ph,CH m p r
Marly le Roi Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S CH m
Marly le Roi Glaxo Wellcome Production S.A.S Ph m p
Asia Pacific
Germany Buehl GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co KG CH m p
Australia Boronia Glaxo Wellcome Australia Ltd Ph m p
Buehl GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare GmbH Ph m
Dandenong SmithKline Beecham (Australia) Pty Ltd Ph,CH m
(formerly SmithKline Beecham Healthcare GmbH)
China Hong Kong GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ph m
Greece Athens GlaxoSmithKline AEBE Ph h m p
Tianjin Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd Ph m 55
Hungary Budapest GlaxoSmithKline Kft Ph,CH m
India Mumbai GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Ltd Ph m p 59
Italy Verona GlaxoSmithKline SpA Ph m p r d Nabha GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Ltd (Footnote (ii)) CH m p 40
Milan GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare SpA CH h m
Malaysia Selangor GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Sdn Bhd Ph m
Luxembourg Mamer GlaxoSmithKline International (Luxembourg) SA Ph,CH f h Darul Ehsan
Mamer GlaxoSmithKline Luxembourg SA Ph,CH f h
New Zealand Auckland GlaxoSmithKline NZ Limited Ph,CH m
Pakistan Karachi GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Ltd Ph,CH m p 79
(formerly Glaxo Wellcome Pakistan Ltd)
Philippines Makati GlaxoSmithKline Philippines Inc. Ph m
(formerly Glaxo Wellcome Philippines Inc.)
Singapore Singapore Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Ph p
Singapore GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd Ph m
South Korea Seoul GlaxoSmithKline Korea Ph m p
Taiwan Taipei Glaxo Wellcome Taiwan Ltd Ph m p148 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 149
Investor information
37 Principal Group companies continued
Japan Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity %
Japan Tokyo GlaxoSmithKline KK Ph m p r 85
This section includes the financial record and discusses
Kobe Block Drug Company (Japan) Inc CH m
shareholder return – the return to shareholders in the form of
dividends and share price movements – and provides other
Latin America information for shareholders.
Argentina Buenos Aires GlaxoSmithKline Argentina SA Ph,CH m p
Financial record
Brazil Rio de Janeiro GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Lda Ph,CH m p
150 Quarterly trend
Colombia Bogota GlaxoSmithKline Colombia SA Ph,CH m
156 Five year trend
Mexico Mexico City GlaxoSmithKline Mexico, SA de CV Ph,CH m p
Puerto Rico Guaynabo GlaxoSmithKline Puerto Rico Inc Ph m Shareholder return
San Juan SB Pharmco Puerto Rico Inc Ph p 159 Shareholder return
160 Shareholder information
Venezuela Caracas GlaxoSmithKline Venezuela CA Ph m p
161 Share capital
163 Taxation information for shareholders
Middle East
Africa
Egypt Cairo GlaxoSmithKline SAE (formerly Glaxo Wellcome Egypt SAE) Ph m p 90
South Africa Midrand GlaxoSmithKline South Africa (Pty) Ltd Ph m p
USA Location Associated undertaking Business %
USA Teterboro, Quest Diagnostics, Inc. Clinical testing 21
New Jersey
Footnotes
(i) Exempt from the provisions of Section 7 of the Companies (Amendment) Act 1986 (Ireland)
(ii) Consolidated as a subsidiary undertaking in accordance with Section 258 (4)(a) of the Companies Act on the grounds of significant
influence
(iii) Incorporated in the Netherlands
(iv) Incorporated in the Republic of Ireland
+ directly held wholly owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc
Business segment: Ph Pharmaceuticals, CH Consumer Healthcare
Business activity: d development, e exporting, f finance, h holding company, i insurance, m marketing, p production, r research,
s service
Full details of all Group subsidiary and associated undertakings will be attached to the company’s Annual Return to be filed with the
Registrar of Companies.150 GlaxoSmithKline Financial record GlaxoSmithKline 151
Financial record
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis is provided by quarter of the Group results in sterling for the financial year 2003. The analysis comprises statutory
results, business performance results and pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area.
Profit and loss account – statutory 12 months 2003 Q4 2003 9 months 2003 Q3 2003 6 months 2003 Q2 2003 Q1 2003
£m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £%
Turnover – Pharmaceuticals 18,181 5 1 4,515 (2) (6) 13,666 7 4 4,634 10 10 9,032 6 1 4,566 3 (1) 4,466 9 2
– Consumer Healthcare 3,260 4 1 863 2 (1) 2,397 4 2 832 4 4 1,565 5 1 809 3 1 756 6 1
Total turnover 21,441 5 1 5,378 (1) (5) 16,063 7 3 5,466 9 9 10,597 6 1 5,375 3 (1) 5,222 8 2
Cost of sales (4,544) – (1) (1,239) 1 (1) (3,305) (1) (2) (1,130) (2) – (2,175) (1) (2) (1,065) (2) (4) (1,110) 1 (1)
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (7,581) (2) (6) (2,014) (5) (8) (5,567) (1) (5) (1,936) 2 1 (3,631) (3) (8) (1,855) (6) (10) (1,776) (1) (6)
Research and development expenditure (2,791) (1) (4) (822) (6) (9) (1,969) 1 (1) (681) (3) (4) (1,288) 4 – (654) 9 5 (634) (1) (5)
Operating costs (14,916) (4,075) (10,841) (3,747) (7,094) (3,574) (3,520)
Trading profit – Pharmaceuticals 5,948 1,139 4,809 1,551 3,258 1,657 1,601
– Consumer Healthcare 577 164 413 168 245 144 101
Total trading profit 6,525 21 15 1,303 6 (2) 5,222 26 20 1,719 35 35 3,503 22 14 1,801 16 11 1,702 30 18
Other operating income/(expense) (133) (167) 34 (33) 67 87 (20)
Operating profit 6,392 21 15 1,136 (10) (16) 5,256 31 25 1,686 47 50 3,570 25 16 1,888 21 15 1,682 29 17
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 93 23 70 20 50 28 22
Disposal of businesses 5 2 3 – 3 3 –
Profit before interest 6,490 1,161 5,329 1,706 3,623 1,919 1,704
Net interest payable (161) (43) (118) (46) (72) (37) (35)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 6,329 21 15 1,118 (10) (16) 5,211 31 25 1,660 47 50 3,551 25 16 1,882 21 15 1,669 29 17
Taxation (1,739) (304) (1,435) (457) (978) (527) (451)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 4,590 19 13 814 (10) (16) 3,776 28 23 1,203 44 47 2,573 23 14 1,355 19 13 1,218 28 16
Equity minority interests (94) (23) (71) (30) (41) (21) (20)
Preference share dividends (12) (1) (11) (3) (8) (4) (4)
Earnings (Profit attributable to shareholders) 4,484 20 15 790 (10) (16) 3,694 30 24 1,170 46 49 2,524 24 15 1,330 19 13 1,194 29 17
Basic earnings per share 77.2p 23 17 13.7p (8) (14) 63.5p 32 26 20.2p 48 51 43.3p 27 18 22.8p 22 16 20.5p 32 20
Profit and loss account – business performance
Turnover – Pharmaceuticals 18,181 5 1 4,515 (2) (6) 13,666 7 4 4,634 10 10 9,032 6 1 4,566 3 (1) 4,466 9 2
– Consumer Healthcare 3,260 4 1 863 2 (1) 2,397 4 2 832 4 4 1,565 5 1 809 3 1 756 6 1
Total turnover 21,441 5 1 5,378 (1) (5) 16,063 7 3 5,466 9 9 10,597 6 1 5,375 3 (1) 5,222 8 2
Cost of sales (4,188) – (1) (1,116) 6 4 (3,072) (3) (3) (1,063) – 2 (2,009) (4) (6) (990) (4) (6) (1,019) (4) (5)
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (7,563) 4 – (1,977) – (3) (5,586) 5 2 (1,970) 12 11 (3,616) 2 (3) (1,850) (1) (5) (1,766) 5 –
Research and development expenditure (2,770) 4 1 (815) (1) (4) (1,955) 6 4 (681) 6 6 (1,274) 6 2 (644) 12 8 (630) 1 (3)
Operating costs (14,521) (3,908) (10,613) (3,714) (6,899) (3,484) (3,415)
Trading profit – Pharmaceuticals 6,317 8 3 1,299 (9) (15) 5,018 14 8 1,578 11 12 3,440 15 7 1,740 7 3 1,700 23 12
– Consumer Healthcare 603 16 10 171 (2) (8) 432 24 20 174 26 20 258 24 19 151 24 24 107 23 14
Total trading profit 6,920 9 3 1,470 (8) (14) 5,450 14 9 1,752 13 13 3,698 15 8 1,891 8 4 1,807
Other operating income/(expense) (133) (167) 34 (33) 67 87 (20)
Operating profit 6,787 8 3 1,303 (20) (25) 5,484 18 13 1,719 20 22 3,765 17 9 1,978 13 8 1,787 22 11
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 93 23 70 20 50 28 22
Profit before interest 6,880 1,326 5,554 1,739 3,815 2,006 1,809
Net interest payable (161) (43) (118) (46) (72) (37) (35)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 6,719 8 3 1,283 (20) (25) 5,436 18 13 1,693 20 22 3,743 18 9 1,969 13 8 1,774 22 11
Taxation (1,848) (353) (1,495) (466) (1,029) (550) (479)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 4,871 7 2 930 (21) (25) 3,941 17 12 1,227 19 21 2,714 17 9 1,419 12 6 1,295 22 11
Equity minority interests (94) (23) (71) (30) (41) (21) (20)
Preference share dividends (12) (1) (11) (3) (8) (4) (4)
Adjusted earnings (Profit attributable to shareholders) 4,765 8 3 906 (20) (25) 3,859 18 13 1,194 20 22 2,665 17 9 1,394 12 7 1,271 23 12
Adjusted earnings per share 82.1p 10 5 15.7p (19) (24) 66.4p 20 15 20.7p 21 24 45.7p 20 12 23.9p 15 9 21.8p 26 15152 GlaxoSmithKline Financial record Financial record GlaxoSmithKline 153
Pharmaceutical turnover – total Group Pharmaceutical turnover – USA Q4 2003 Q3 2003 Q2 2003 Q1 2003
Q4 2003 Q3 2003 Q2 2003 Q1 2003 £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £%
£m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £%
CNS 607 (25) (33) 910 14 9 808 4 (6) 787 24 11
CNS 965 (17) (21) 1,243 13 11 1,152 5 (1) 1,095 19 10 Depression 365 (35) (42) 643 16 10 562 5 (5) 537 27 13
Depression 552 (27) (32) 822 14 11 750 6 (1) 706 23 13 Seroxat/Paxil 144 (58) (63) 370 12 7 338 (4) (13) 327 25 12
Seroxat/Paxil 325 (40) (43) 542 10 9 520 – (6) 490 20 12 Wellbutrin 221 1 (9) 273 22 16 224 21 10 210 30 16
Wellbutrin 227 2 (8) 280 22 16 230 22 10 216 30 17
Migraine 145 (9) (18) 162 4 (1) 151 (5) (14) 151 9 (3)
Migraine 211 (4) (9) 221 4 2 213 (2) (7) 204 6 (2) Imigran/Imitrex 133 (9) (18) 150 3 (2) 138 (5) (13) 139 11 (1)
Imigran/Imitrex 188 (6) (11) 199 3 1 190 (2) (8) 183 8 (1) Naramig/Amerge 12 (2) (8) 12 8 9 13 (9) (19) 12 (6) (14)
Naramig/Amerge 23 7 5 22 10 10 23 (1) (4) 21 (9) (13)
Lamictal 77 28 15 84 44 38 74 30 16 76 52 38
Lamictal 146 25 21 145 36 36 135 28 23 130 37 30 Requip 11 (11) (21) 13 20 18 12 2 (8) 11 36 22
Requip 27 11 8 26 20 24 24 3 – 22 22 16 Zyban 6 (41) (45) 7 (39) (42) 6 (35) (45) 9 (26) (31)
Zyban 20 (13) (9) 18 (25) (22) 17 (31) (32) 20 (28) (31)
Respiratory 569 19 8 546 20 15 556 15 5 571 31 17
Respiratory 1,171 14 10 1,056 14 15 1,097 10 6 1,093 19 13
Flixotide, Serevent, Seretide 456 19 7 437 25 19 413 15 5 444 33 19
Flixotide, Serevent, Seretide 906 16 12 819 18 19 813 12 9 814 22 16 Seretide/Advair 341 51 36 316 57 50 286 41 28 292 71 53
Seretide/Advair 617 39 34 552 40 41 531 31 28 514 48 42 Flixotide/Flovent 77 (17) (24) 77 (11) (14) 77 (11) (19) 88 (3) (13)
Flixotide/Flovent 186 (10) (12) 166 (8) (7) 173 (8) (11) 180 (5) (10) Serevent 38 (42) (48) 44 (30) (33) 50 (28) (33) 64 (10) (20)
Serevent 103 (21) (24) 101 (15) (13) 109 (18) (20) 120 (7) (12)
Flixonase/Flonase 109 31 18 103 3 – 131 22 10 118 33 19
Flixonase/Flonase 144 27 18 127 4 2 164 18 9 159 27 16 Ventolin – – – 1 >100 >100 1 >100 – 2 (72) (67)
Ventolin 69 (7) (5) 66 7 14 66 1 – 64 (3) (6) Becotide – – – – – – – – – – – –
Becotide 29 (15) (12) 25 (17) (17) 28 (19) (18) 29 (15) (12)
Anti-virals 279 (5) (14) 290 1 (3) 298 12 1 292 11 (1)
Anti-virals 582 (3) (6) 586 4 5 610 11 7 571 9 4
HIV 186 (9) (18) 197 (4) (8) 202 6 (4) 213 16 4
HIV 368 (4) (7) 375 4 5 390 11 8 375 13 7 Combivir 73 (7) (17) 74 (7) (10) 75 (2) (11) 79 6 (6)
Combivir 147 (2) (5) 146 2 4 152 6 3 144 5 – Trizivir 47 (2) (11) 54 12 8 60 26 15 58 46 29
Trizivir 88 1 (2) 92 19 19 102 32 29 94 43 36 Epivir 33 (17) (27) 38 (3) (7) 36 6 (8) 41 14 5
Epivir 70 (10) (13) 75 4 6 74 7 3 74 8 3 Retrovir 4 (20) (33) 5 (20) (17) 5 1 – 5 (6) (17)
Retrovir 11 (17) (15) 11 12 10 12 (12) (8) 11 (16) (21) Ziagen 19 (22) (30) 22 (18) (21) 21 8 (5) 24 13 –
Ziagen 39 (12) (17) 43 (12) (9) 42 12 8 43 14 8 Agenerase 4 (52) (50) 4 (38) (50) 5 (28) (38) 6 (12) (14)
Agenerase 6 (34) (45) 8 (32) (27) 8 (25) (27) 9 (7) (18)
Herpes 83 7 (3) 85 23 18 86 29 16 71 3 (8)
Herpes 170 – (3) 170 9 9 178 12 7 151 2 (3) Valtrex 81 15 3 81 30 25 83 36 22 71 25 13
Valtrex 129 12 7 128 26 24 132 32 26 110 23 15 Zovirax 2 (73) (71) 4 (48) (43) 3 (42) (50) – – (100)
Zovirax 41 (26) (24) 42 (24) (21) 46 (23) (25) 41 (32) (32)
Zeffix 3 – – 2 (12) (33) 3 5 – 2 (10) (33)
Zeffix 34 11 3 32 7 3 32 15 10 31 10 3
Anti-bacterials 166 (21) (28) 107 (28) (31) 113 (53) (57) 138 (53) (58)
Anti-bacterials 509 (8) (11) 420 (5) (3) 419 (23) (25) 467 (25) (27) Augmentin 115 (22) (29) 54 (37) (39) 60 (66) (69) 83 (64) (68)
Augmentin 251 (11) (14) 177 (12) (10) 179 (42) (43) 218 (42) (44) Zinnat/Ceftin 6 (29) (33) 4 (24) (20) 4 (33) (43) 8 (30) (38)
Zinnat/Ceftin 70 3 4 57 11 14 55 (4) (4) 64 (7) (7) Fortum 6 (34) (40) 7 (25) (22) 6 (29) (33) 8 5 (11)
Fortum 45 (15) (15) 46 (3) – 47 (10) (8) 46 (8) (10) Amoxil 1 (90) (89) 5 (34) (38) 6 (23) (25) 7 17 –
Amoxil 29 (29) (33) 27 (10) (10) 29 (1) (3) 32 5 (3)
Metabolic 200 12 1 197 60 52 167 (5) (13) 191 28 14
Metabolic 291 12 4 283 54 51 245 – (7) 260 26 14 Avandia/Avandamet 200 12 1 197 60 52 167 (5) (13) 191 28 14
Avandia/Avandamet 252 16 7 241 61 55 212 3 (5) 226 28 15
Vaccines 65 11 – 70 (1) (4) 73 15 4 73 – (11)
Vaccines 290 3 4 284 (8) (4) 285 8 9 264 9 8 Hepatitis 39 (20) (29) 39 (23) (26) 34 (23) (29) 45 (8) (18)
Hepatitis 102 (16) (17) 102 (18) (16) 106 (13) (12) 107 (5) (9) Infanrix 26 >100 >100 31 71 63 39 92 70 28 15 4
Infanrix 76 41 41 83 21 24 102 50 48 75 18 17
Oncology and emesis 167 (11) (20) 182 10 5 207 23 12 187 20 7
Oncology and emesis 231 (8) (14) 249 9 8 273 19 11 248 17 7 Zofran 136 (1) (12) 148 23 18 155 32 19 136 31 17
Zofran 187 – (7) 199 19 16 206 25 16 182 24 14 Hycamtin 19 35 27 21 82 75 20 16 5 17 15 –
Hycamtin 26 23 13 29 53 53 29 12 7 26 13 4
Cardiovascular and urogenital 119 13 1 156 43 36 110 10 – 110 33 18
Cardiovascular and urogenital 195 16 10 226 36 34 178 10 5 172 27 19 Coreg 92 41 26 92 7 2 81 19 8 81 58 42
Coreg 96 40 26 97 8 4 84 20 9 84 57 40 Levitra 2 – – 20 – – – – – – – –
Levitra 7 – – 25 – – 3 – – 2 – – Avodart 5 (6) (17) 6 – – 2 – – 1 – –
Avodart 7 34 17 8 – – 3 – – 1 – –
Other 16 17 – 26 1 4 27 (33) (43) 30 (17) (23)
Other 281 (7) (8) 287 (4) (4) 307 (7) (11) 296 (13) (17) Zantac 14 (29) (39) 18 7 6 22 12 5 23 7 (8)
Zantac 76 (21) (22) 80 (2) (1) 89 (10) (12) 83 (15) (19) Total 2,188 (6) (16) 2,484 14 9 2,359 2 (8) 2,379 12 –
Total 4,515 (2) (6) 4,634 10 10 4,566 3 (1) 4,466 9 2
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.154 GlaxoSmithKline Financial record Financial record GlaxoSmithKline 155
Pharmaceutical turnover – Europe Q4 2003 Q3 2003 Q2 2003 Q1 2003 Pharmaceutical turnover – International Q4 2003 Q3 2003 Q2 2003 Q1 2003
£m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £%
CNS 224 3 8 206 5 13 213 3 10 204 3 10 CNS 134 10 12 127 15 19 131 18 16 104 17 8
Depression 87 (18) (14) 89 (6) 2 96 (8) (3) 97 3 10 Depression 100 18 19 90 26 29 92 34 28 72 24 18
Seroxat/Paxil 87 (18) (14) 89 (6) 2 96 (8) (3) 97 3 10 Seroxat/Paxil 94 17 19 83 26 28 86 33 30 66 23 16
Wellbutrin – – – – – – – – – – – – Wellbutrin 6 27 20 7 2 4 40 6 43 – 6 27 50
Migraine 50 14 22 44 5 13 45 6 15 40 (11) (5) Migraine 16 (3) – 15 3 7 17 15 6 13 14 18
Imigran/Imitrex 41 11 17 36 3 13 37 5 16 33 (9) (3) Imigran/Imitrex 14 (3) 8 13 2 8 15 16 – 11 15 22
Naramig/Amerge 9 26 50 8 14 14 8 12 14 7 (21) (13) Naramig/Amerge 2 – (33) 2 8 – 2 8 100 2 12 –
Lamictal 58 24 32 50 29 35 50 30 43 44 18 26 Lamictal 11 8 10 11 6 22 11 6 – 10 14 –
Requip 14 40 40 12 18 33 11 – 10 10 4 11 Requip 2 46 100 1 37 – 1 45 – 1 43 –
Zyban 10 49 43 7 7 17 7 8 40 8 (10) (11) Zyban 4 (35) – 4 (31) (20) 4 (54) (56) 3 (51) (57)
Respiratory 409 7 12 343 3 11 375 1 9 354 2 9 Respiratory 193 11 12 167 16 21 166 10 6 168 17 8
Flixotide, Serevent, Seretide 329 12 18 273 7 15 292 5 13 276 5 13 Flixotide, Serevent, Seretide 121 14 19 109 23 31 108 16 15 94 21 13
Seretide/Advair 221 24 32 182 15 25 192 15 25 178 17 26 Seretide/Advair 55 25 34 54 39 50 53 36 36 44 52 42
Flixotide/Flovent 57 (8) (5) 47 (10) (2) 52 (10) (5) 52 (13) (7) Flixotide/Flovent 52 2 4 42 1 5 44 – – 40 (1) (7)
Serevent 51 (2) – 44 (4) 2 48 (8) (4) 46 (8) (2) Serevent 14 27 27 13 56 86 11 11 – 10 18 11
Flixonase/Flonase 13 5 8 12 9 9 18 (2) 13 13 (4) – Flixonase/Flonase 22 23 22 12 4 9 15 6 – 28 18 12
Ventolin 35 (8) (5) 32 (3) 7 34 (4) 3 33 (5) – Ventolin 34 2 3 33 10 10 31 2 (3) 29 14 –
Becotide 24 (15) (11) 22 (17) (12) 23 (17) (15) 24 (11) (8) Becotide 5 (14) (17) 3 (18) (40) 5 (28) (29) 5 (29) (29)
Anti-virals 183 (2) 4 177 8 18 195 13 23 171 3 13 Anti-virals 120 3 1 119 8 9 117 6 (1) 108 13 4
HIV 142 2 9 137 17 28 148 17 29 128 7 16 HIV 40 6 3 41 13 17 40 15 8 34 14 (3)
Combivir 57 1 10 53 14 2 3 59 16 28 49 1 9 Combivir 17 15 13 19 17 19 18 18 – 16 15 7
Trizivir 37 6 16 35 32 4 6 38 42 52 33 38 50 Trizivir 4 (4) (20) 3 31 – 4 50 100 3 49 50
Epivir 27 1 4 27 15 29 28 6 17 25 (1) 9 Epivir 10 (6) 11 10 12 11 10 14 11 8 5 (20)
Retrovir 4 (23) – 4 >100 100 4 (30) (20) 4 (37) (33) Retrovir 3 (3) – 2 – – 3 (4) – 2 15 –
Ziagen 15 4 7 15 (8) – 16 19 33 15 16 25 Ziagen 5 (2) (17) 6 8 50 5 16 – 4 11 –
Agenerase 1 (9) (50) 3 (4) 50 3 (5) – 2 (4) – Agenerase 1 >100 – 1 (42) – – – – 1 18 (50)
Herpes 34 (10) (3) 36 (7) 6 41 3 11 37 1 9 Herpes 53 (4) (2) 49 – (2) 51 (5) (7) 43 – (4)
Valtrex 20 2 5 22 8 22 25 16 25 19 9 19 Valtrex 28 10 22 25 31 25 24 34 41 20 29 18
Zovirax 14 (24) (13) 14 (23) (13) 16 (12) (6) 18 (7) – Zovirax 25 (15) (19) 24 (19) (20) 27 (25) (29) 23 (16) (18)
Zeffix 5 30 25 4 (13) – 4 2 – 4 (8) – Zeffix 26 10 – 26 13 8 25 18 14 25 15 9
Anti-bacterials 206 1 7 172 8 18 172 (3) 6 205 (1) 6 Anti-bacterials 137 (1) (7) 141 7 6 134 9 – 124 10 –
Augmentin 88 (3) 2 76 8 17 74 (6) 1 94 (4) 3 Augmentin 48 13 9 47 9 7 45 8 2 41 12 3
Zinnat/Ceftin 42 12 20 26 7 18 29 (1) 7 37 6 12 Zinnat/Ceftin 22 1 (4) 27 21 17 22 4 (4) 19 (11) (17)
Fortum 24 (12) (4) 23 (1) 10 24 (9) – 24 (14) (8) Fortum 15 (11) (17) 16 7 – 17 (2) (6) 14 (5) (13)
Amoxil 10 (15) (17) 8 (25) (20) 8 (29) (20) 10 (32) (23) Amoxil 18 (13) (18) 14 16 17 15 41 25 15 37 15
Metabolic 33 32 32 33 67 83 25 6 9 25 29 39 Metabolic 58 4 – 53 30 33 53 17 13 44 17 2
Avandia/Avandamet 22 84 83 19 78 >100 17 49 55 12 16 20 Avandia/Avandamet 30 16 15 25 66 56 28 63 56 23 32 21
Vaccines 129 (5) 2 132 (11) (4) 127 6 14 107 9 15 Vaccines 96 7 12 82 (10) (6) 85 3 6 84 20 22
Hepatitis 48 (13) (8) 45 (22) (15) 55 (4) 2 44 (10) (2) Hepatitis 15 (11) (6) 18 15 20 17 (9) (11) 18 14 –
Infanrix 37 7 12 38 18 3 1 42 31 40 30 11 20 Infanrix 13 16 18 14 (26) (26) 21 23 31 17 42 42
Oncology and emesis 41 (1) 5 40 – 5 43 4 13 39 (1) 5 Oncology and emesis 23 7 10 27 23 35 23 6 (4) 22 17 10
Zofran 32 1 10 32 – 7 32 1 7 30 – 7 Zofran 19 10 12 19 22 19 19 8 6 16 13 7
Hycamtin 6 (5) (14) 6 – 20 7 14 17 6 (9) – Hycamtin 1 9 – 2 18 – 2 (24) – 3 66 50
Cardiovascular and urogenital 48 14 23 44 15 26 42 (2) 8 42 13 24 Cardiovascular and urogenital 28 36 33 26 39 37 26 37 30 20 24 11
Coreg – – – – – – – – – – – – Coreg 4 17 33 5 4 9 67 3 34 50 3 35 –
Levitra 4 – – 3 – – 2 – – 2 – – Levitra 1 – – 2 – – 1 – – – – –
Avodart 2 – – 2 – – 1 – – – – – Avodart – – – – – – – – – – – –
Other 90 (13) (12) 80 (18) (12) 91 (16) (13) 94 (18) (15) Other 175 (5) (7) 181 2 (1) 189 3 (3) 172 (10) (18)
Zantac 23 (26) (21) 22 (18) (12) 24 (24) (17) 25 (31) (24) Zantac 39 (14) (15) 40 3 3 43 (11) (16) 35 (16) (20)
Total 1,363 2 7 1,227 3 11 1,283 2 9 1,241 1 8 Total 964 4 3 923 9 10 924 9 4 846 9 1
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income. Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.156 GlaxoSmithKline Financial record Financial record GlaxoSmithKline 157
Five year record
2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
A record of financial performance is provided analysed in accordance with current reporting practice. Statutory results £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 21,441 21,212 20,489 18,079 16,796
2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
Turnover by business segment £m £m £m £m £m Profit before taxation 6,329 5,506 4,517 6,029 4,236
Earnings (profit attributable to shareholders) 4,484 3,915 3,053 4,106 3,077
Pharmaceuticals 18,181 17,995 17,205 15,429 13,618
Dividends (2,374) (2,346) (2,356) (2,097) (2,005)
Consumer Healthcare 3,260 3,217 3,284 2,650 2,546
Retained profit 2,110 1,569 697 2,009 1,072
Retained businesses 21,441 21,212 20,489 18,079 16,164
Healthcare Services – – – – 632 Return on capital employed (per cent) 79.8 70.4 52.9 78.5 71.8
21,441 21,212 20,489 18,079 16,796
Return on capital employed is calculated as statutory profit before taxation as a percentage of average capital employed over the year.
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area
Merger, restructuring and disposal of subsidiaries
Central nervous system 4,455 4,511 4,007 3,279 2,720
Manufacturing and other restructuring (83) (121) (162) (171) (443)
Respiratory 4,417 3,987 3,537 2,789 2,382
Merger costs and product divestments (286) (840) (1,069) 895 –
Anti-bacterials 1,815 2,210 2,604 2,472 2,383
Other items (21) (50) (421) (22) (29)
Anti-virals 2,349 2,299 2,128 1,899 1,610
(Loss)/profit before taxation (390) (1,011) (1,652) 702 (472)
Metabolic 1,079 960 875 589 210
(Loss)/profit attributable to shareholders (281) (712) (1,330) 452 (347)
Vaccines 1,123 1,080 948 842 776
Oncology and emesis 1,001 977 838 710 613
Cardiovascular and urogenital 771 661 591 463 449 Business performance results - retained businesses
Others 1,171 1,310 1,677 1,939 2,047 Turnover 21,441 21,212 20,489 18,079 16,164
Continuing business 18,181 17,995 17,205 14,982 13,190
R&D expenditure 2,770 2,732 2,555 2,510 2,285
Divested products – – – 447 428 per cent of sales 13 13 12 14 14
18,181 17,995 17,205 15,429 13,618
Trading profit 6,920 6,694 6,053 5,026 4,378
per cent of sales 32 32 30 28 27
Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic area
Net interest payable (161) (141) (88) (182) (162)
USA 9,410 9,797 9,037 7,705 6,276
Profit before taxation 6,719 6,517 6,169 5,327 4,683
Europe 5,114 4,701 4,561 4,268 4,288
Adjusted earnings (profit attributable to shareholders) 4,765 4,627 4,383 3,654 3,406
International:
Asia Pacific 1,140 1,100 1,047 975 863
Business performance, which is the primary performance measure used by management, is presented after excluding merger items,
Japan 753 712 741 832 704
integration and restructuring costs, and the disposal of businesses. Management believes that exclusion of these items provides a better
Latin America 597 606 790 682 636
reflection of the way in which the business is managed and gives an indication of the performance of the Group in terms of those elements
Middle East, Africa 693 652 611 585 527
of revenue and expenditure which local management is able to influence. This information, which is provided in addition to the statutory
Canada 474 427 418 382 324
results prepared under UK GAAP, is given to assist shareholders to gain a clearer understanding of the underlying performance of the business
International 3,657 3,497 3,607 3,456 3,054
and to increase comparability for the periods presented. Statutory results include these items.
18,181 17,995 17,205 15,429 13,618
Share statistics
Pharmaceutical turnover in 2003 includes co-promotion income.
Earnings per share (p) 77.2 66.2 50.3 67.7 50.3
Dividends per GlaxoSmithKline share (p):
GlaxoSmithKline shareholder 41.0 40.0 39.0
Consumer Healthcare sales
Glaxo Wellcome shareholder 38.0 37.0
OTC medicines 1,556 1,586 1,603 1,454 1,434 SmithKline Beecham shareholder 29.66 26.69
Oral care 1,082 1,052 1,106 642 614 Dividends per GlaxoSmithKline ADS ($):
Nutritional healthcare 622 579 575 535 488 GlaxoSmithKline shareholder 1.39 1.24 1.11
Continuing business 3,260 3,217 3,284 2,631 2,536 Glaxo Wellcome shareholder 1.10 1.14
SmithKline Beecham shareholder 0.87 0.86
Divested products – – – 19 10
3,260 3,217 3,284 2,650 2,546 Dividends are expressed in terms of a GlaxoSmithKline share/ADS. On the merger between Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham on
27th December 2000, shareholders and ADR holders received shares in GlaxoSmithKline in the following ratios:
for 1 Glaxo Wellcome share – 1 GlaxoSmithKline share
for 1 SmithKline Beecham share – 0.4552 GlaxoSmithKline shares
for 1 Glaxo Wellcome ADS – 1 GlaxoSmithKline ADS
for 1 SmithKline Beecham ADS – 1.138 GlaxoSmithKline ADSs
1 GlaxoSmithKline ADS represents 2 GlaxoSmithKline shares.158 GlaxoSmithKline Financial record GlaxoSmithKline 159
Shareholder return
2003 2002 2001 2000 1999
Net assets £m £m £m £m £m Share price Dividends
Fixed assets 11,350 11,578 11,920 10,322 9,292 2003 2002 2001 GlaxoSmithKline pays dividends quarterly. The Board declared
Other assets and liabilities (1,237) (1,855) (1,567) (877) (401) (£) (£) (£) dividends for 2003 as follows:
Net operating assets 10,113 9,723 10,353 9,445 8,891 At 1st January 11.92 17.23 18.90
2003 2002
Net debt (1,648) (2,335) (2,101) (611) (2,357) High during the year 13.90 17.80 20.32 Dividends per share pence pence
8,465 7,388 8,252 8,834 6,534 Low during the year 10.00 10.57 16.26 First interim - paid 3rd July 2003 9 9
At 31st December 12.80 11.92 17.23 Second interim - paid 2nd October 2003 9 9
Increase/(Decrease) 7% (31)% (9)% Third interim - paid 6th January 2004 9 9
Capital employed
Fourth interim - payable 15th April 2004 14 13
Share capital and share premium 1,751 1,730 1,713 1,586 1,549
The table above sets out the middle market closing prices Total 41 40
Other reserves 5,969 4,851 5,677 6,004 3,842
derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
Equity shareholders’ funds 7,720 6,581 7,390 7,590 5,391
The company’s share price increased by seven per cent in 2003 In 2004, GlaxoSmithKline expects a similar increase in the total
Minority interests 745 807 862 1,244 1,143
from a price of £11.92 at 1st January 2003 to £12.80 at dividend as has been declared in 2003. The allocation of quarterly
8,465 7,388 8,252 8,834 6,534
31st December 2003. This compares with an increase in the FTSE dividends will be rebalanced in 2004. GlaxoSmithKline intends
100 index of 14 per cent during the year. to increase the first three interim dividends from nine pence to
Capital expenditure (tangible fixed assets) 870 1,027 1,113 1,018 1,141
10 pence, with the remainder of the total dividend for the year
Market capitalisation being allocated to the fourth quarter dividend.
Number of employees
The market capitalisation of GlaxoSmithKline at 31st December
USA 24,036 23,527 23,613 22,745 21,272 2003 was £76 billion. At that date GlaxoSmithKline was the Dividends (ADSs)
Europe 44,559 46,028 46,508 45,929 47,767 fourth largest company by market capitalisation on the FTSE As a guide to holders of ADRs, the tables below set out the
International: index. dividends paid per ADS in US dollars in the last five years. The
Asia Pacific 18,373 17,289 18,364 19,058 18,856 dividends are adjusted for UK tax credits less withholding tax,
Japan 2,842 2,952 2,985 3,165 3,191 SmithKline Beecham plc Floating Rate Unsecured Loan Stock where applicable, and are translated into US dollars at applicable
Latin America 5,916 6,876 7,800 7,704 8,286 1990/2010 exchange rates.
Middle East, Africa 3,400 5,973 6,344 7,133 7,729
The loan stock is not listed on any exchange but holders may Since 6th April 1999, claims for refunds of tax credits on
Canada 1,793 1,854 1,856 1,783 1,940
require SmithKline Beecham plc to redeem their loan stock at dividends from the UK tax authorities are of negligible benefit to
International 32,324 34,944 37,349 38,843 40,002 par, i.e. £1 for every £1 of loan stock held, on the first business US shareholders.
100,919 104,499 107,470 107,517 109,041 day of March, June, September and December. Holders wishing Year GSK ($) GW ($) SB ($)
to redeem all or part of their loan stock should complete the
2003 1.39
Manufacturing 32,459 35,503 36,849 35,681 37,420 notice on the back of their loan stock certificate and return it to
2002 1.24
Selling 43,978 43,994 44,499 43,325 41,775 the registrar, to arrive at least 30 days before the relevant
2001 1.11
Administration 9,550 10,378 11,081 11,980 12,767 redemption date.
2000 1.10 0.87
Research and development 14,932 14,624 15,041 16,531 17,079
1999 1.14 0.86
100,919 104,499 107,470 107,517 109,041 Taxation
Dividends paid to Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham ADR
General information concerning the UK and US tax effects of
The number of employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who
holders are expressed as dividends per GlaxoSmithKline ADS.
share ownership is set out in 'Taxation information for
are employed and managed by GlaxoSmithKline on a contract basis.
shareholders'.
Dividend calendar
Fourth quarter 2003
Ex-dividend date 18th February 2004
Record date 20th February 2004
Payable 15th April 2004
First quarter 2004
Ex-dividend date 12th May 2004
Record date 14th May 2004
Payable 1st July 2004
Second quarter 2004
Ex-dividend date 4th August 2004
Record date 6th August 2004
Payable 30th September 2004
Third quarter 2004
Ex-dividend date 3rd November 2004
Record date 5th November 2004
Payable 6th January 2005160 GlaxoSmithKline GlaxoSmithKline 161
Shareholder information Share capital
Ordinary shares Publications Nature of trading market Glaxo Wellcome Pence per share
The company's shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange. GlaxoSmithKline’s 2003 Corporate Responsibility Report is available The Ordinary Shares of the company were listed on the London Fiscal periods to 26th December 2000 High Low
from Secretariat at the company’s head office and the website at Stock Exchange on 27th December 2000. The shares were also 2000 2110 1440
Registrar www.gsk.com. listed on the New York Stock Exchange (in the form of American 1999 2288 1507
The company's share register is administered by Lloyds TSB Depositary Shares ‘ADSs’) from the same date.
Registrars, who also provide the following services: Annual General Meeting 2004 US dollars per ADS
The following table sets out, for the periods indicated, the high
Fiscal periods to 26th December 2000 High Low
• GlaxoSmithKline Investment Plan and low middle market closing quotations in pence for the
The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, 17th May 2004
The plan enables shareholders to reinvest quarterly dividends shares on the London Stock Exchange, as derived from its Daily 2000 633⁄4 46
Broad Sanctuary, Westminster,
and/or make monthly investments in the company's ordinary Official List, and the high and low last reported sales prices in US 1999 763⁄16 481⁄16
London SW1P 3EE
shares using a special dealing arrangement. dollars for the ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange, as derived
• GlaxoSmithKline Individual Savings Account The Annual General Meeting is the company's principal forum for from the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape. SmithKline Beecham Pence per share
communication with private shareholders. In addition to the formal
The GlaxoSmithKline Individual Savings Account (ISA) is a Information relating to the share and ADS prices for Glaxo Fiscal periods to 26th December 2000 High Low
resolutions to be put to the meeting, there will be a presentation
tax-efficient way to invest in the company's ordinary shares. Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham prior to the date of the 2000 955 671
by the Chief Executive Officer on the performance of the business
merger is also given. 1999 929 688
• GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Sponsored Nominee and its future development. There will be opportunity for questions
The corporate sponsored nominee provides a facility for to the Board, and the Chairmen of the Board's committees will GlaxoSmithKline Pence per share
shareholders to hold shares without the need for share take questions on matters relating to those committees. Fiscal periods from 27th December 2000 High Low US dollars per ADS
certificates. Shareholders' details will not be held on the main Investors holding shares in the company through a nominee service Quarter ended 31st March 2004* 1299 1095 Fiscal periods to 26th December 2000 High Low
share register, and so will remain confidential.
should arrange with that nominee service to be appointed as a February 2004 1208 1095 2000 7115⁄16 521⁄2
• Shareview service corporate representative or proxy in respect of their shareholding January 2004 1299 1180 1999 763⁄8 561⁄16
The shareview portfolio service provides shareholders with in order to attend and vote at the meeting. December 2003 1330 1250
information on their investment in the company. Shareholders November 2003 1390 1265
ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain a proxy
may register for this service at www.shareview.co.uk. October 2003 1301 1250
from The Bank of New York which will enable them to attend the
September 2003 1306 1221
meeting and vote on the business to be transacted. ADR holders
Share dealing facility Quarter ended 31st December 2003 1390 1250
may instruct The Bank of New York as to how the shares
Hoare Govett Limited operates a postal share dealing service in Quarter ended 30th September 2003 1306 1158
represented by their ADRs should be voted by completing and
the company’s ordinary shares. It enables investors to buy or sell Quarter ended 30th June 2003 1335 1131
returning the voting card provided by The Bank of New York in
shares at competitive commission charges. Transactions are Quarter ended 31st March 2003 1242 1000
accordance with the instructions given.
executed and settled by Pershing Securities Limited. Further details Quarter ended 31st December 2002 1390 1120
of this service together with purchase and sale forms may be Quarter ended 30th September 2002 1400 1057
Financial reporting
obtained by telephoning +44 (0)20 7676 8300. Quarter ended 30th June 2002 1694 1321
Financial reporting calendar 2004 Quarter ended 31st March 2002 1780 1623
Smith Barney, part of Citigroup, also offers a share dealing service
in the company’s ordinary shares and ADSs. Further details of this Announcement of 1st Quarter Results 29th April 2004 Quarter ended 31st December 2001 1955 1685
Quarter ended 30th September 2001 2032 1626
service can be obtained by contacting them, see contact details Announcement of 2nd Quarter Results 27th July 2004
Quarter ended 30th June 2001 2012 1740
inside back cover.
Announcement of 3rd Quarter Results 28th October 2004 Quarter ended 31st March 2001 1965 1690
The provision of the details above are not intended to be an Preliminary Announcement of Annual Results 17th February 2005 27th to 31st December 2000 1920 1890
invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity.
Publication of Annual Report/Review March 2005
Advice on share dealing, should be obtained from a stockbroker US dollars per ADS
or independent financial adviser. Fiscal periods from 27th December 2000 High Low
Results Announcements
The Results Announcements are issued to the London Stock Quarter ended 31st March 2004* 47.25 42.05
Share price information
Exchange (LSE), and made available on the LSE news service, and February 2004 45.36 42.05
Share price information is available on the company's website at
at the same time, or shortly afterwards, are issued to the media, January 2004 46.93 44.00
www.gsk.com. Information is also available on Ceefax, Teletext,
are made available on the website and, in the USA, sent to the December 2003 46.68 44.23
and from FT Cityline by calling 0906 003 5694 or 0906 843 5694
Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock November 2003 47.64 42.73
(calls charged at 60p a minute plus VAT at all times).
Exchange. October 2003 44.12 42.09
September 2003 43.22 38.61
American Depositary Shares
Financial reports Quarter ended 31st December 2003 47.64 42.09
The company's shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange The company publishes an Annual Report and, for the investor Quarter ended 30th September 2003 43.22 36.91
in the form of American Depositary Shares (ADSs) and these are not needing the full detail of the Report, an Annual Review. Quarter ended 30th June 2003 43.87 35.40
evidenced by American Depositary Receipts (ADRs), each one of These are available from the date of publication on the Quarter ended 31st March 2003 40.13 31.85
which represents two ordinary shares. GlaxoSmithKline website. Quarter ended 31st December 2002 43.09 35.92
Quarter ended 30th September 2002 42.38 32.86
The Annual Review is sent to all shareholders on the date of
ADR programme administrator Quarter ended 30th June 2002 49.18 38.54
publication. Shareholders may also elect to receive the Report
The ADR programme is administered by The Bank of New York, Quarter ended 31st March 2002 50.87 46.39
which also provides the following service: by writing to the company’s registrars. Alternatively shareholders Quarter ended 31st December 2001 57.09 48.68
may elect to receive notification by email of the publication of
Quarter ended 30th September 2001 58.00 48.40
• Global BuyDIRECT financial reports by registering on www.shareview.co.uk.
Quarter ended 30th June 2001 57.10 49.80
Global BuyDIRECT is a direct ADS purchase/sale and dividend
Copies of previous financial reports are available on the website. Quarter ended 31st March 2001 56.95 47.15
reinvestment plan for ADR holders.
Printed copies can be obtained from the registrar in the UK and 27th to 31st December 2000 56 13/16 55 3/8
from the Customer Response Center in the USA. *to 27th February 2004162 GlaxoSmithKline Share capital GlaxoSmithKline 163
Taxation information for shareholders
Analysis of shareholdings Information for shareholders Stamp duty
Number of % of total % of total Number of UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) will, subject to
Analysis of shareholdings at 31st December 2003: accounts accounts shares shares A summary of the main tax consequences for holders of shares
certain exemptions, be payable on the purchase of shares at a
Holding of shares and ADRs who are citizens or residents of the UK or the USA is
rate of 0.5 per cent of the purchase price. There is a minimum
Up to 1,000 164,350 69.8 1.0 60,147,347 set out below. It is not a complete analysis of all the possible tax
charge of £5 where a stamp duty liability arises.
1,001 to 5,000 54,161 23.0 2.0 117,116,012 consequences of purchase or ownership of these securities. It is
5,001 to 100,000 15,042 6.4 3.9 231,658,338 intended only as a general guide. Holders are advised to consult
US shareholders
100,001 to 1,000,000 1,314 0.6 7.2 428,141,412 their advisers with respect to the tax consequences of the
Over 1,000,000 503 0.2 85.9 5,112,400,519 purchase and ownership of their shares or ADRs, and the The following is a summary of certain UK taxation and USA
consequences under state and local tax laws in the USA and the federal income tax considerations that may be relevant to a US
Totals 235,370 100.0 100.0 5,949,463,628
implications of the new UK/US Income Tax convention. holder of shares or ADRs. This summary only applies to a
Held by
shareholder that holds shares or ADRs as capital assets, is a
Nominee companies 48,706 20.7 82.6 4,916,362,330 This statement is based upon UK and US tax laws and practices
citizen or resident of the USA or a domestic corporation or that
Investment and trust companies 115 – 0.3 17,835,477 at the date of this report.
is otherwise subject to United States federal income taxation on
Insurance companies 36 – 0.8 47,263,192
The new UK/US Income Tax Convention came into force on a net income basis in respect of the shares or ADRs, and is not
Individuals and other corporate bodies 186,511 79.3 7.0 414,730,071
31st March 2003. The provisions of the new treaty apply for UK resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and does not hold shares
BNY (Nominees) Limited 2 – 9.3 553,272,558
tax purposes from 1st April 2003 (UK Corporation Tax), 6th April for the purposes of a trade, profession or vocation that is carried
Totals 235,370 100.0 100.0 5,949,463,628 2003 (UK Income Tax and Capital Gains Tax) and 1st May 2003 on in the UK through a branch or agency.
(Withholding Taxes). For US tax purposes, the provisions of the
The Bank of New York’s holding held through BNY (Nominees) Limited represents the company’s ADR programme, whereby each ADS new treaty apply from 1st May 2003 (Withholding Taxes) and Taxation of dividends
represents two Ordinary Shares of 25p nominal value. 1st January 2004 (all other US taxes). However, holders of shares The gross amount of dividends received (including amounts in
At 27th February 2004, the number of holders of record of shares in the USA was 1,180 with holdings of 1,844,786 shares, and or ADRs have the ability to elect to continue to use the respect of associated tax credit and UK withholding tax) is treated
the number of registered holders of the ADRs was 47,109 with holdings of 287,191,723 ADRs. Certain of these shares and ADRs were provisions of the previous treaty for 12 months following the as foreign source dividend income for US tax purposes. It is not
held by brokers or other nominees, as a result the number of holders of record or registered holders in the USA is not representative of new treaty’s entry into force. An election must be made in eligible for the dividend received deduction allowed to US
the number of beneficial holders or of the residence of beneficial holders. advance of the first event to which the new treaty would apply. corporations. Dividends on ADRs are payable in US dollars;
dividends on shares are payable in Sterling. Dividends paid in
US holders of ADRs generally will be treated as the owners of
Control of company the underlying shares for the purposes of the current USA/UK pounds Sterling will be included in income in the US dollar
amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate on the day
As far as is known to the company, it is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by one or more corporations or by any government. double taxation conventions relating to income and gains the dividends are received by the holder. UK Taxes withheld from
The company does not know of any arrangements, the operation of which might result in a change in control of the company. (Income Tax Convention), estate and gift taxes (Estate and Gift dividend distributions are eligible for credit against the holders’
Tax Convention) and for the purposes of the US Internal Revenue
US Federal Income Tax liability, subject to generally applicable
Substantial shareholdings Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). limitations. Each holder's own tax position will determine
At 27th February 2004, the company had received notification of the following interest of three per cent or more in its shares: The following analysis deals with dividends paid after 6th April whether effective use can be made of special US foreign tax
1999 when Advance Corporation Tax (ACT) was abolished. credits against the US tax liability.
• BNY (Nominees) Limited holds 574,426,176 shares representing 9.66 per cent. These shares are held on behalf of holders of American
Depositary Receipts, which evidence American Depositary Shares UK shareholders On 6th April 1999, the rate of tax credits was reduced to one
ninth when ACT was abolished. Claims for refunds of tax credits
• Legal & General Investment Management Limited holds 203,213,510 shares representing 3.4 per cent. Taxation of dividends on dividends paid on or after this date are of negligible benefit
• Barclays plc holds 191,750,288 shares representing 3.2 per cent.. From 6th April 1999, the rate of tax credits was reduced to one to US shareholders.
ninth. As a result of compensating reductions in the rate of tax
As far as is known to the company, no other person was the owner of three per cent or more of the shares of the company. on dividend income, there is no increase in the tax borne by UK Taxation of capital gains
resident individual shareholders. Tax credits are, however, no Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax,
Directors and Officers longer repayable to shareholders with a tax liability of less than but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale
the associated tax credit. or other disposal of shares or ADRs.
The interests of the Directors and Officers of the company (as defined in the Companies Act 1985) in share options of the company are
given in the ‘Remuneration report’ (pages 43 to 58). Taxation of capital gains Estate and gift taxes
UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security holders disposal of shares or ADRs. They may also be entitled to not generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
There are currently no UK laws, decrees or regulations restricting the import or export of capital or affecting the remittance of dividends indexation relief and taper relief on such sales. Indexation relief
or other payments to holders of the company’s shares who are non-residents of the UK. There are no limitations relating only to is calculated on the market value of shares at 31st March 1982 Stamp duty
non-residents of the UK under English law or the company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association on the right to be a holder of, and on the cost of any subsequent purchases from the date of UK stamp duty or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, be
and to vote in respect of, the company’s shares. such purchase. Indexation relief for individual shareholders payable on any issue or transfer of shares to the ADR custodian
ceased on 5th April 1998. Taper relief is available to individual or depository at a rate of 1.5 per cent of their price (if issued),
Documents on display shareholders who hold or are deemed to hold shares for at least the amount of any consideration provided (if transferred on
three years before they are sold. sale), or their value (if transferred for no consideration).
Documents referred to in this Annual Report are available for inspection at the Registered Office of the company.
No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of an ADR. No UK
Inheritance tax
stamp duty should be payable on the transfer of an ADR
Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the
provided that the instrument of transfer is executed and remains
transfer of shares or ADRs. Tax may be charged on the amount
at all times outside the UK. Any stamp duty on the transfer of
by which the value of the shareholder's estate is reduced as a
an ADR would be payable at a rate of 0.5 per cent of the
result of any transfer by way of gift or other disposal at less than
consideration for the transfer. Any sale of the underlying shares
full market value. Such a gift or other disposal is subject to both
would result in liability to UK stamp duty or, as the case may be,
UK inheritance tax and US estate or gift tax. The Estate and Gift
SDRT at a rate of 0.5 per cent. There is a minimum charge of £5
Tax Convention would generally provide for tax paid in the USA
where a stamp duty liability arises.
to be credited against tax payable in the UK.164 GlaxoSmithKline
Glossary of terms Contact details
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description INTERNET
Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay
Information for investors and about the company
the charging and payment of tax. The US equivalent of tax depreciation.
is available on GlaxoSmithKline’s corporate website
Advance Corporation Tax (ACT) An advance payment of UK tax that was made when dividends are paid. No direct US at www.gsk.com
equivalent.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) Receipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GlaxoSmithKline ADR represents two ordinary HEAD OFFICE AND REGISTERED OFFICE
shares.
GlaxoSmithKline plc
American Depositary Shares (ADSs) Ordinary Shares registered on the New York Stock Exchange. 980 Great West Road
Called-up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid. Brentford
Middlesex TW8 9GS
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Combined Code Guidelines required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority to address the
principal aspects of Corporate Governance.
UNITED KINGDOM UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
The company GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Investor relations Investor relations
Creditors Accounts payable.
980 Great West Road One Franklin Plaza
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies, Brentford PO Box 7929
at agreed exchange rates and dates. Middlesex TW8 9GS Philadelphia PA 19101
Debtors Accounts receivable. Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5557 / 5558 Tel: 1 888 825 5249 toll free
Fax: +44 (0)20 8047 7807 Tel: +1 215 751 7003 outside the USA
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Fax: +1 215 751 3233
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth Registrar
of the pension fund. Lloyds TSB Registrars ADR programme administrator
The Causeway The Bank of New York
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Worthing Shareholder Relations
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
West Sussex BN99 6DA PO Box 11258
Dividend cover Profit attributable to shareholders/net income divided by dividends payable to shareholders. www.shareview.co.uk Church Street Station
Earnings per share Basic income per share. New York NY 10286-1258
General enquiries, Annual Report orderline and
www.adrbny.com
Employee Share Ownership Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share based employee incentive plans. Corporate Nominee service
Tel: 1 877 353 1154 toll free
Equity shareholders’ funds The aggregation of shares and reserves owned by shareholders. The US equivalent is Tel: 0870 600 3991 inside the UK Tel: +1 610 382 7836 outside the USA
shareholders’ equity. Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7067 outside the UK
Customer response center
Finance lease Capital lease. Shareholder Investment Plans
Tel: 1 888 825 5249 toll free
Dividend re-investment enquiries
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
Tel: 0870 241 3018 inside the UK Corporate Share dealing facility
Gearing ratio Net debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds net debt and minority interests.
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7067 outside the UK - Ordinary holders Smith Barney
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7146 outside the UK - Employees Attn: GSK Services
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements, 53 State Street
by making off-setting commitments. Monthly Savings Plan enquiries 39th Floor
Tel: 0870 606 0268 inside the UK
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as brands, licences, patents, know-how and Boston, MA 02109
Tel: +44 (0)131 527 3746 outside the UK
marketing rights purchased from outside parties. Tel: 1 800 347 6179 toll free
ISA enquiries Tel: +1 617 589 3341 outside the USA
Interest cover The number of times profit before interest exceeds net interest payable.
Tel: 0870 242 4244 inside the UK Fax: +1 617 589 3474
Interest payable Interest expense.
Tel: +44 (0)1903 854 049 outside the UK TheTaylorGroup@SmithBarney.com
Interest receivable Interest income.
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham corporate PEPs
Non-equity minority interest Preference shares issued by a subsidiary to outside parties.
The Share Centre Limited
Preference shares Shares issued at varying dividend rates that are treated as outside interests. Oxford House
Profit Income. Oxford Road
Aylesbury
Profit and loss account reserve Retained earnings.
Bucks HP21 8SZ
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income
Tel: +44 (0)1296 414 144
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Corporate Share dealing facility
Share option Stock option. Smith Barney
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable). Attn: GSK Services
Citigroup Centre, Level 20
Shares in issue Shares outstanding.
Canada Square, Canary Wharf
Statement of total recognised gains and losses Statement of comprehensive income.
London E14 5LB
Stocks Inventories. Tel: +44 (0)20 7508 1795
Subsidiary undertaking An affiliate in which GlaxoSmithKline holds a majority shareholding and/or exercises control. Fax: +44 (0)20 7890 7281
TheBalaesGroup@Citigroup.com
Tangible fixed assets Property, plant and equipment.
Turnover Revenue.
Printed by The Midas Press in the UK. The paper used in the production of this document is made from pulp harvested
from sustainable forests, also using sawmill residues and forest thinnings. It is elemental chlorine-free.Do more, feel better, live longer
Improving performance
ever y day
ANNUAL REPORT 2003
3002
tropeR
launnA
enilKhtimSoxalG
www.gsk.com
1Annual review 2003