Annual Report 2015
2015 saw substantial progress
to accelerate new product
sales growth and strengthen
our Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines
and Consumer Healthcare
businessesB GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Overview of 2015
“ In 2015, we made substantial progress to accelerate
new product sales growth, integrate new businesses in
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare and restructure our
global Pharmaceuticals business. This progress means
the Group is well positioned to return to core earnings
growth in 2016.”
Sir Andrew Witty, Chief Executive Officer
Performance summary
£23.9bn £10.3bn £5.7bn £3.9bn
Group turnover Total operating profit Core operating profit Cash dividends paid
(up 6% CER/up 1% CER (up >100% CER)a (down 9% CER/down 3% in 2015
pro-forma)a CER pro-forma)a
£2.0bn 174.3p 75.7p 100%
New product salesb Total earnings per share Core earnings per share Markets now operating
(up >100%) (up >100%, primarily (down 15% CER, primarily new commercial model
reflecting impact of reflecting short-term dilution
transaction gains) of the Novartis transaction)a
~40 20 ~13% 1st
Potential new medicines Potential to file up to Estimated internal In Access to Medicine
and vaccines profiled at R&D 20 assets with regulators rate of return in R&D Index
event, 80% of which have by 2020 in 2015
potential to be first-in-classc
Footnotes
a We use a number of adjusted measures to report the performance of our business,
as described on page 54. These include core results, CER growth rates and pro-forma
CER growth rates. A reconciliation of total results to core results is set out on page 62.
b New products defined as:
Pharmaceuticals: Relvar/Breo Ellipta, Anoro Ellipta, Incruse Ellipta, Arnuity Ellipta,
Eperzan/Tanzeum, Nucala, Tivicay, Triumeq.
Vaccines: Menveo, Bexsero, Shingrix (not yet approved).
c GSK R&D event on 3 November 2015.
Front cover story
Innovation is at the heart of all we do
Katherine, pictured left, is one of a team of scientists continuing to develop Nucala after almost
20 years of focused R&D, including nine distinct patient studies. Nucala is a monoclonal antibody
that stops IL-5 from binding to its receptor on the surface of eosinophils. In people with asthma,
eosinophils – a type of white blood cell – cause inflammation in the lungs, making it difficult to
breathe and increasing the risk of asthma attacks.
The 2015 European and US regulatory approvals of Nucala – the first-in-class approved targeted
biologic therapy for people with eosinophilic-driven severe asthma – consolidates GSK’s leading
global position in respiratory medicine.
Katherine, GSK senior scientist, Stevenage, UKGSK Annual Report 2015 1
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Contents
At GSK, our mission is to
Strategic report
improve the quality of human Our investor proposition 02
Our business 04
Chairman’s statement 06
life by enabling people to do
CEO’s statement 07
Our global marketplace 08
more, feel better, live longer. Our business model 11
Our strategic priorities 12
How we performed 14
Our approach to risk 16
Pharmaceuticals 18
Vaccines 26
Consumer Healthcare 32
Responsible business 38
Group financial review 50
Governance & remuneration
Our Board 74
Our Corporate Executive Team 78
Board governance 80
Corporate governance framework 82
Committee reports
Audit & Risk 88
Nominations 95
Corporate Responsibility 98
Remuneration report
Chairman’s annual statement 102
Annual report on remuneration 103
Remuneration policy summary 127
Find out more www.gsk.com Financial statements
Directors’ statement
of responsibilities 130
Independent Auditor’s report 131
Financial statements 138
Notes to the financial statements 142
Financial statements of
GlaxoSmithKline plc
prepared under UK GAAP 211
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
The Group’s reports filed with or furnished to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including this document Investor information
and written information released, or oral statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, may Quarterly trend 218
contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements give the Group’s current expectations or forecasts of
future events. An investor can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current Five year record 222
facts. They use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’ and other words and Product development pipeline 225
terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these
Product, competition and
include statements relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results
of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, intellectual property 228
and financial results. Other than in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations (including under the UK Listing Risk factors 231
Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority), the Group undertakes no
obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Share capital and share price 241
The reader should, however, consult any additional disclosures that the Group may make in any documents which it Dividends 243
publishes and/or files with the SEC. All readers, wherever located, should take note of these disclosures. Accordingly,
no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and shareholders are cautioned not to place Financial calendar 243
undue reliance on the forward-looking statements. Annual General Meeting 2016 243
Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which relate to factors Tax information for shareholders 244
that are beyond the Group’s control or precise estimate. The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors, Shareholder services
including those in this document, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any
forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under ‘Risk factors’ on pages and contacts 246
231-240 of this Annual Report. Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Group speak only as of the US law and regulation 248
date they are made and are based upon the knowledge and information available to the Directors on the date of this
Group companies 250
Annual Report.
Glossary of terms 259
All expectations and targets regarding future performance should also be read together with ‘Assumptions related
to 2016-2020 outlook’ on the inside back cover.
A number of adjusted measures are used to report the performance of our business. These measures are defined
on page 54 and a reconciliation of core results to total results is set out on page 62.2 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our investor proposition
GSK is a science-led global healthcare company that aims to
deliver growth and improving returns to shareholders through
the development of innovative pharmaceutical, vaccine and
consumer healthcare products.
Three world-leading
businesses
Each has a broad range
Pharmaceuticals Vaccines Consumer Healthcare
of growth drivers and the
global presence to access £14.2bn £3.7bn £6.0bn
increasing demand for
healthcare.
2015 turnover 2015 turnover 2015 turnover
Leadership in key The most comprehensive One of the world's
therapeutic areas vaccines portfolio in the leading global Consumer
including Respiratory industry Healthcare companies
and HIV (by retail sales)
Strong R&D 40
innovation Around new
potential medicines and
R&D underpins all vaccines in our pipeline
our businesses with Vaccines Respiratory Rare diseases profiled at R&D eventb
diseases
research focused in 80%
six core therapy areas.
of which we believe are
potentially first-in-class
20
Immuno- HIV/infectious Oncology
inflammation diseases Potential to file up
to 20 assets by 2020
b GSK R&D event on 3 November 2015.
£2.5bn £1bn
Efficient global
operating model
2015 adjusted free cash flow excluding in incremental annual cost
We are focused on costs funded by divestmentsc savings delivered in 2015 and
optimising our operations £6.7bn
£3bn
through restructuring,
investments and
net proceeds from disposals in annual cost savings
modernisation to
generated in 2015 expected by end of 2017d
improve profitability
£3.7bn
and efficiency.
reduction in net debt in 2015
c Excluding legal payments and also non-core d £1.6 billion annual savings
restructuring and integration costs and the initial achieved by 31 December 2015. £
tax payments on the sale of the Oncology business.GSK Annual Report 2015 3
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
150+ £6bn Earnings
• Core EPS percentage
Presence in more in annual revenues growth expected to
than 150 markets expected from new
reach double digits
Pharmaceutical and
CER in 2016
Vaccine product sales
(£2bn sales achieved
• Medium-term outlook
in 2015)a
for Group to grow Core
EPS mid-to-high single
digitsg CAGR over five
a At its Investor event on 6 May 2015, years to 2020 CERh
GSK outlined a series of expectations for
its performance over the five year period
2016-2020. See inside back cover. Returns
• Ordinary dividend of
~13% 1,500 80p per share for 2015
• Special dividend of
Estimated internal We partner with over 1,500
rate of return on organisations around the world, 20p per share for 2015
R&D investment including academic institutions, (£1 billion from Novartis
public-private partnerships
transaction proceeds)
and other pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies • Expect to pay ordinary
dividend of 80p per
share for both 2016
and 2017
100% No.1
on time supply for all in customer trust for
key new pharmaceutical both GSK Respiratory
product introduction and Vaccines in the USf
launches in 2015 across 1.8m
all markets e Legacy GSK brands.
f Customer trust rankings as demonstrated
93% unique visitors to GSK
in GSK annual customer value survey of
HCP digital portals, over 4,000 customers.
+21% in 2015 g At its Investor event on 6 May 2015, GSK
Consumer Healthcare outlined a series of expectations for its
performance over the five year period
supply: average service
2016-2020. See inside back cover.
levels of 93% OTIF h Expected compound annual growth rate
(on time in full) in 2015e (CAGR) to 2020, using 2015 as the base
year. See inside back cover.4 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our business
We are focused on the research and development
of innovative pharmaceutical medicines, vaccines
and consumer healthcare products.
Our businesses Our strategy
Our Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Our strategy is designed to generate
Consumer Healthcare businesses sustainable sales and earnings growth
generated turnover of £23.9 billion in 2015. and improved returns to shareholders.
We have three strategic priorities:
Each business benefits from GSK's global
Research & development
commercial infrastructure, integrated supply To grow a balanced business
networks, innovative R&D and significant and product portfolio, capable of
R&D innovation underpins all of our
global presence. delivering sustainable sales growth
businesses. We partner with more than
See our business model on page 11. 1,500 other companies and academic
To research, develop and deliver
organisations around the world,
R ead more about our businesses opposite more high quality, innovative products enabling us to increase our
and on pages 18 to 37. that offer valuable improvements in understanding of new areas of science
treatment for patients, consumers
Global presence and to share the risk of development.
and healthcare providers
We have a significant global presence
We have a deep portfolio of innovation
with 101,255 employees in more than 150
To simplify the way we operate to focused across six core areas of
markets, a network of 89 manufacturing
reduce complexity, increase efficiency scientific research and development:
sites, and large R&D centres in the UK,
and free up resources to reinvest HIV and infectious diseases, oncology,
US, Belgium and China.
elsewhere in the business, or return immuno-inflammation, vaccines,
to shareholders wherever we see the respiratory and rare diseases. In 2015,
most attractive returns. we profiled around 40 new potential
Balanced geographies
medicines and vaccines, 80% of which
Turnover by region 2015 Responsible business
we believe have the potential to be
Being a responsible business is central to first-in-class. This means they may offer
our strategy, and how we deliver success benefits beyond current standards of
34% is just as important as what we achieve. care and, in some cases, could radically 39% Our work is underpinned by our values of transform how patients are treated.
patient focus, integrity, respect for people
and transparency. Read more about our R&D on pages
18 to 37.
Read more about our strategic priorities
27% US and our approach to responsible 20
Europe business on pages 12 to 13.
International Potential to file up to 20
assets by 2020
Of the 40 assets profiled
Balanced businesses in 2015, we expect:
2015 % of Group turnover 10
up to
phase III starts in 2016/2017 and
25% 20
up to
phase II starts in 2016/2017
60%
15% ~13%
Estimated internal rate of return
on R&D investment
Pharmaceuticals
Vaccines £3.1bn
Consumer
Healthcare Core R&D expenditure in 2015
Core R&D expenditure
allocation in 2015 £bn
Pharmaceuticals 2.3
Vaccines 0.5
Consumer Healthcare 0.3GSK Annual Report 2015 5
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pharmaceuticals Vaccines Consumer Healthcare
Our Pharmaceuticals business develops Our Vaccines business is one of Our Consumer Healthcare business
and makes medicines to treat a broad the largest in the world, developing, develops and markets products in
range of acute and chronic diseases. producing and distributing over 1.9 million Wellness, Oral health, Nutrition and
We have leading global positions in vaccines every day to people across Skin health. We have a portfolio of some
respiratory disease and HIV with a the world. We have a broad portfolio of the world’s most trusted and best-
portfolio of innovative and established of 39 paediatric, adolescent, adult and selling brands which include Sensodyne,
medicines. travel vaccines. Voltaren, Horlicks and Panadol.
Read more on pages 18 to 25. Read more on pages 26 to 31. Read more on pages 32 to 37.
£14.2bn £3.7bn £6.0bn
Total turnover Total turnover Total turnover
60% 15% 25%
of Group turnover of Group turnover of Group turnover
Sales by therapy area £m Sales by category £m Sales by category £m
Respiratory 5,741 Rotavirus 417 Wellness 2,970
Cardiovascular, metabolic and urology 858 Pneumococcal 381 Oral health 1,866
Immuno-inflammation 263 Flu 268 Nutrition 684
Oncology* 255 Meningitis 275 Skin health 508
Other pharmaceuticals 2,199 TDaP* 1,091
Established Products 2,528 Hepatitis 540
HIV (ViiV Healthcare) 2,322 Other 685
* Representing sales prior to the disposal of * Tetanus, diphtheria and acellular pertussis.
the Oncology business unit to Novartis in
March 2015.6 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Chairman’s statement
“ The Group has made good
progress in delivering the
strategy and outlook set
out to shareholders in
May 2015.”
For 2015, the Group has declared an I am pleased to report that the Group has
2015 highlights
ordinary dividend of 80 pence per share demonstrated strength in multiple areas of
and a special dividend of 20 pence. governance. A review of the work overseen
by the Audit & Risk Committee is on page
The current level of annual dividend of
88. The Remuneration Committee has
80 pence exceeds the cash flows from
80p + 20p operated in accordance with the binding
our businesses. However, the Board has
Remuneration Policy, approved by
said it expects to maintain that level of
shareholders in 2014. The Remuneration
payment for 2016 and 2017, which are
80p ordinary dividend and a special report can be found on page 102.
important years of change. During this
dividend of 20p
period, the long-term impact on cash flow We have been pleased to welcome two
of the decline in Seretide/Advair should new independent Non-Executive Directors
become clearer but so should the benefit to the Board: Vindi Banga and Dr Jesse
This is my first letter to shareholders and to cash generation of the growth of recently Goodman, as our Senior Independent
I am pleased to report that the Group made launched products, the expansion of our Director Designate and a Scientific and
good progress in delivering the strategy Vaccines and Consumer businesses Medical Expert respectively. I am pleased
and outlook set out to shareholders in and reduced restructuring expenditure. with the contributions they have made
May 2015. already to the Board’s deliberations.
Good progress has been made in the
A clear element of the Group’s strategy development of the company’s operating Sir Christopher Gent retired from the
is to deal with the decline in sales of model and R&D pipeline. Both of these are Board as Chairman in May 2015 after over
Seretide/Advair which has for the best important for the long-term health of the 10 years at the helm of GSK. He stood
part of the last decade been the biggest company and the Board is encouraged by down at the same time as Tom de Swaan
source of profits to the Group. This is a the level of innovation in the company’s and Jing Ulrich. Long-serving Non-
considerable challenge. However with the pipeline, with novel assets in development Executive Directors: Dr Stephanie Burns,
investments that have been made in new across six core therapy areas. Sir Deryck Maughan and Dr Daniel
Pharmaceutical and Vaccine products we Podolsky will retire as planned at the
A priority for the Board is to manage
are now seeing an effective transition in 2016 AGM in May after completing over
succession of executive management.
the Group’s portfolio. nine years service. Hans Wijers has also
After what will have been nearly 10 years
decided not to seek re-election at our AGM
It is also important for the Group to secure as CEO, Sir Andrew has indicated to the
this year. We have greatly appreciated all
the sales benefits and cost synergies Board his intention to retire from the
their dedication, experience, the wealth of
resulting from the recent Novartis company in early 2017. The Board has
knowledge and insights they brought to
transaction, which was successfully agreed that he will retire on 31 March 2017.
Board deliberations over their years of
completed in 2015. The Board is closely This will be the culmination of 32 years of
service on the Board.
monitoring the integration of the new service and leadership to GSK and the
businesses acquired in Vaccines and industry. We will thank Andrew more In closing, on behalf of the Board, I would
Consumer Healthcare and it is clear formally for his tremendous dedication and like to thank Sir Andrew and his executive
that management has made substantial contribution next year. In the meantime, the team for their commitment and
progress. Board will now start a formal search for a performance in 2015.
successor and will consider internal and
external candidates for the role.
Philip Hampton
ChairmanGSK Annual Report 2015 7
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
CEO’s statement
“ The progress we have
made in 2015, strongly
positions the Group to
deliver the medium-
term outlook we set out
to investors in May last
year and to return to core
earnings growth in 2016.”
Over the last two years we have launched a Restructuring and modernising
2015 highlights
number of new pharmaceutical and vaccine our business
products and in 2015 sales from this group We are ahead of schedule on our
reached £2 billion. This performance was integration and restructuring programmes
driven by continued excellent uptake of and in 2015 realised £1 billion of
£23.9bn our HIV launches (Tivicay and Triumeq), incremental annual cost savings.
growing momentum in our new respiratory We are well on track to deliver £3 billion
portfolio (Relvar/Breo, Anoro and Incruse) of savings by the end of 2017.a
2015 Group turnover and significant contributions from newly
We are modernising our business and
(up 6% CER/+1% CER pro-forma) acquired meningitis vaccines Bexsero
making significant changes to our
and Menveo.
commercial model. We have already
£2.0bn
New product sales are now more than changed how we compensate our sales
offsetting the declines in Seretide/Advair; representatives and from the beginning
sales of which are now around 30% below of January 2016 stopped paying external
New product sales
their peak in 2013. doctors to speak about our products.
(up >100%)
These are industry firsts. At the same time,
2015 also saw a very strong performance
we are investing significantly in our own
£1.0bn from our Consumer Healthcare business
medical expertise and developing new
with sales up 44% (+6% pro-forma)
digital capabilities to improve our
driven by a number of key brands including
interactions with physicians.
2015 incremental annual cost savings Sensodyne and allergy treatment Flonase
from integration and restructuring which we switched from prescription status Outlook
to over-the-counter in the US. The progress we have made in 2015,
strongly positions the Group to deliver
Strong R&D innovation
the medium-term outlook we set out to
2015 marked further progress against Our R&D organisation continued to deliver
investors in May last year and to return
our strategy of creating a balanced Group significant innovation for the Group in 2015.
to core earnings growth in 2016.
of three world leading business in A key milestone was the approval in the US
Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer and Europe of Nucala, our first biologic Finally, and this year more than ever, I would
Healthcare, with a clear aim to deliver growth treatment for severe asthma. We also like to thank all of our employees for their
and improving returns to shareholders. successfully gained approval for our malaria extraordinary energy, passion and tenacity.
vaccine, the first vaccine against a parasite.
In the year, we completed our major 3-part
transaction with Novartis and made good Since 2008, the Group has received
progress to integrate new businesses in approvals for 15 new molecular entities
Consumer Healthcare and Vaccines and (NMEs). In November 2015, we profiled
restructure our Pharmaceuticals business. around 40 new potential medicines and
At the same time, sales of our new vaccines, 80% of which we believe could
products have dramatically accelerated. be first-in-class.
Trading performance Over the next two years we expect to see
Sir Andrew Witty
Group sales rose 6% (+1% pro-forma) significant development milestones for a
Chief Executive Officer
to £23.9 billion, despite trading conditions number of these assets including filings
remaining challenging in a number of for our vaccine for shingles, Shingrix,
markets. Core earnings per share was sirukumab, for rheumatoid arthritis, and
75.7 pence, (-15% CER), ahead of our our triple combination therapy for chronic
guidance for the year. Total earnings per obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
share were 174.3 pence, a rise of more In addition, we expect continued progress
than 100%, reflecting the significant gains in our mid and late stage pipeline in core
from the transaction. therapy areas of respiratory, immuno-
inflammation, HIV, vaccines and oncology.
Footnote
a £1.6bn savings achieved as at 31 December
2015 with a further £1.4bn to come over the
next two years8 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our global marketplace
The global healthcare marketplace is experiencing
significant change as an uneven economic recovery,
far-reaching global trends and an evolving commercial
environment, particularly on pricing, transform the sector.
The global healthcare market In developed economies, ageing
The global economy remained fragile populations and improvements in Macro-economic
in 2015, with overall growth falling from medical technology are further adding
and social trends
3.4% in 2014 to 3.1%a, reflecting slower to the pressure on healthcare budgets.
growth in certain emerging economies
Changing societal attitudes are also
and in oil-exporting countries.
shaping the healthcare environment.
Despite this unsettled economic People are taking an increasingly Population growth,
background, the global pharmaceuticals active role in managing their own ageing populations
market continued to grow. Global sales health which is creating more demand and lifestyle changes
were £428 billion for the period January for healthcare products.
to September 2015, up from £393 billion
Finally, the heightened geopolitical
during the same nine months in 2014.
uncertainty in several key regions is Long-term economic growth
North America remained the largest
likely to impact certain healthcare markets in emerging markets
pharmaceuticals market, with a 49%
during 2016 and beyond.
share of global sales (up from 45% in 2014).
Europe represented 21%, down from 24%, GSK's group of three world leading
Asia Pacific was relatively static at 23%, businesses in Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines Rapid scientific and
emerging markets fell to 22% from 23%, and Consumer Healthcare, and our global technological advances
with Japan down to 8% from 9%. presence, means we are well positioned
to respond to these opportunities (see
In 2015, the global vaccines market grew by
4% to around $27.5 billion. It is expected to our strategic response opposite). Political instability
continue growing at around 4% per year and Pricing and market access and fragmentation
represent around $35 billion by 2020.b The pressure on, and public debate about,
the industry’s approach to pricing, continued
The consumer healthcare markets in which
to increase during 2015 in all key markets, Increased expectations GSK operates are estimated to be worth
but particularly in the US. Alongside this, of transparency and
more than $100 billion, and are projected
many healthcare systems are focusing on high standards for
to grow by 3-4% annually over the next
how to assess the value of medicines, with all businesses five years.c
formal health technology assessments
We have evaluated the implications for (HTAs) continuing to grow in importance.
our business of a possible exit of the In both Japan and the US, new assessment
Climate change and
United Kingdom from the European processes are being piloted, while more
resource depletion
Union. In our view, there are advantages established systems in Europe continue
in the UK remaining part of the EU, where to present challenges that can delay launch
the Group would continue to have easy or restrict patient populations. However,
access to a significant economic bloc, be successful market access negotiations Global competition
able to operate within an established and for innovative, value-adding products for talent
harmonised regulatory approval system and continued in most countries during 2015,
continue to benefit from EU advocacy on demonstrating a continued willingness to
international trade discussions. However, pay for treatments that meet genuine unmet
while the UK leaving the EU would create patient needs. 2015 saw more aggressive formulary
uncertainty and add complexity to a wide price negotiations and exclusions of
range of our business activities, with some Both the highly-charged public debate on competing products.
short-term disruption likely, we have plans pricing and the increased influence of value
in place to mitigate these effects, and we assessments are likely to continue in 2016 Public commentary on this issue was not
do not currently believe that there would and beyond which will continue to create able to capture the complexities of pricing
be a material adverse impact on the uncertainty for the industry. Increased structures and confidential discounts
Group’s results or financial position. collaboration between different stakeholders creating a lack of transparency. Many
will be key to deliver mutually acceptable stakeholders, including policy makers,
Global societal trends pricing and access solutions. presidential election candidates, payers,
impacting healthcare providers and patients called for pricing
US
In emerging markets long-term economic reform, and we expect pricing to be a
growth, increasing expectations for healthcare The healthcare landscape in the US continues focus of policy debates in the US in
provision, and changing diets and lifestyles to see substantial change, with a strong focus 2016 and beyond.
are increasing demand for healthcare on continuing to expand healthcare coverage
products across all life stages, especially and controlling costs in areas of high growth. Footnotes
to treat chronic conditions including At the same time, the US government is a International Monetary Fund, World Economic
respiratory and cardiovascular disease. implementing policies that shift payment Outlook: Adjusting to Lower Commodity Prices,
October 2015.
This demand is expected to grow significantly away from the traditional fee-for-service
faster in these markets over the coming arrangements and towards approaches that b t E ov a 2l 0u 2at 0e ,P Jh ua nr em 2a 0, 1W 5.orld Preview 2015, Outlook
years than in more mature economies. are intended to increase competition by
c Internal forecasts based on Nicholas Hall and
This will create funding challenges. incentivising efficiency and quality. Euromonitor.GSK Annual Report 2015 9
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Opportunities and
challenges for the
healthcare sector
Rising living standards
and ageing populations
leading to growing
demand for healthcare,
particularly in emerging
markets
Changing lifestyles
leading to changing
disease burdens
The global Scientific advances
create opportunity for
healthcare
innovation
marketplace
Payer concern with
cost and value, leading
to pressure on pricing
and demand for
differentiated products
Expectation of
high standards
of behaviour for
healthcare
companies
Our strategic response
Three world-leading businesses Global and sustainable pricing Leading responsible
We have created a group of three world- We aim to improve returns from our R&D business approach
leading businesses in Pharmaceuticals, innovation by striking a balance between Being a responsible business is
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, with price and volume generation. fundamental to GSK and to our strategic
a presence in more than 150 markets. priorities. For us, how we do business is
We are actively working with payers,
This provides access to global demand as important as the financial results we
policymakers, physicians and others
for healthcare and aims to deliver growth deliver. We have led the industry on
on solutions to address concerns about
and improving returns to shareholders. access to medicines, data transparency
the cost of healthcare. Realising and
and evolving our commercial model to
Read more on pages 18 to 37. maximising value – for patients, for
ensure patients' interests come first.
providers, and for innovators – has to
Creating innovative products be at the centre of this discussion. Read more on page 38.
R&D innovation underpins all our
businesses focused in six core therapy
Read more on page 8.
areas where our scientific understanding
can help deliver significant medical
advances to patients.
Read more on pages 22, 29 and 36.10 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our global marketplace
continued
Regulatory environment These provisions will be introduced
A growing population Prescription medicines and vaccines are over a period of time depending on the
highly regulated to ensure patients and country if the agreement is ratified by the
users have access to safe and effective US Congress.
medicines. In the US, the Food and
The EU has also concluded bilateral
>7bn people Drug Administration (FDA) approves new agreements with other markets of this region
medicines and in 2015 approved 45 novel
in 2015, such as with Vietnam, which should
medicines (41 in 2014). This is the highest
improve the regulatory environment, and
number of approvals across the
enhance patient access to key medicines
pharmaceutical industry since 1996.
and vaccines. A number of other trade
~1bn 60+ year olds The healthcare landscape continues to
agreements are under negotiation, such
by 2020 (+20%) undergo substantial change, with a much
as the Trans-Pacific Trade and Investment
stronger focus on improving quality and
Partnership and the EU-Japan FTA.
controlling costs. The FDA is responding
to these challenges by working with In some markets the availability of intellectual
>6bn people outside industry to advance alternative approaches property rights, particularly patents and data
US and Europe to help reduce the time and cost in protection, may be more limited and more
developing new medicines particularly difficult to enforce than in developed world
generics, which include amongst others markets. For example, India, Brazil and
the use of biomarkers and real world data. Argentina have implemented, or are
650m new babies
considering, practices that restrict the
by 2020 In Europe, the European Medicines
availability of patents. In addition, some Agency (EMA) regulates new medicines
countries are considering more widespread
and in 2015 issued 43 positive opinions
use of compulsory licensing.
for medicines containing new active
substances (36 in 2014). During 2015, Vaccines and other biological products do
Europe the EMA continued its efforts to help not currently face such a degree of generic
Given the significant public funding of accelerate patient access to valuable competition, largely because for these
healthcare in most European countries, new medicines. This included progressing products, the research required is more
pressure on government budgets continued its Adaptive Pathways Pilot and proposals difficult, the product is more complex, and
to create challenges for the industry. to launch a new scheme to boost innovation, the quality is more dependent on technical
The market grew in 2015, primarily due called ‘PRIME’ (PRIority MEdicines). manufacturing processes, compared to
to the use of new high-priced medicines for small molecule medicines.
In Japan, in 2015, 38 new medicines
hepatitis C, putting ever greater constraints
received approval along with the first While intellectual property protections
on healthcare budgets. Inequality of access
two regenerative (cell based) medicine are available for consumer healthcare
to medicines, both between European
products, one of which was developed products, their importance and
countries and within patient populations,
by JCR Pharmaceuticals, a partner of effectiveness are different. Consumer
as well as affordability, remain significant
GSK. Six products obtained the first healthcare products are also covered
issues. Despite much debate on the issue
designations under the ‘sakigake’ fast-track by national regulation regarding testing,
of medicines affordability, and in particular
review system, introduced in 2015 approval, manufacturing, labelling,
affordability for member states with lower
to promote early development and marketing and advertising. These products
GDP, practical challenges remain to any
regulatory application in Japan ahead have strong reliance on brand loyalty and
significant reform of medicines pricing
of the rest of the world. trade mark protection to create and protect
and access.
value over time, especially in emerging
Intellectual property and patent
Japan markets.
protection developments
There was a strong focus on pricing in
To ensure a reasonable return on Competition
Japan, with the government implementing
investment, research-based healthcare GSK operates in a highly competitive and
a new approach to mitigate the fiscal burden
companies rely on the protection of their dynamic marketplace. 2015 saw rapid
associated with medicines that have annual intellectual property through patents, consolidation within the sector in response
sales of more than 100 billion yen, and which
regulatory data exclusivity, and other rights. to the significant market pressure on the
exceeded significantly the sales forecast
industry. Mergers and acquisitions in the
agreed with the government at launch. Patent expiry or the early loss of a patent
pharma, medical and biotech sector hit
can lead to the availability of a generic
Emerging markets a new record in 2015, with transactions
version of a product, which is often
Governments across the emerging market reaching $575 billion globally ($380 billion
cheaper as the generic manufacturer does
regions continue to seek ways to improve in 2014)d and with 530 deals in the sector
not typically incur significant R&D costs.
access to healthcare while at the same in the US alone.e The consumer healthcare
In developed markets, generics can rapidly
time manage healthcare expenditure. market also remains highly competitive with
capture a large share of the market. Market
several high profile deals in 2015.
Countries dependent on oil may look erosion may be less in emerging markets.
to limit spending on health as a result
During 2015, agreement was reached
of the significant decrease in oil prices.
on the Trans-Pacific Partnership, giving
Countries as diverse as Ghana, China Footnotes
inter alia five years of data exclusivity
and India are looking to expand the d MergerMarket. Global and regional M&A:
population covered by government-funded for most non-biologic pharmaceutical 2015 (page 3)
products and, for biologics, an additional
health schemes. This increases the e MergerMarket. Global and regional M&A:
three years of equivalent protection. 2015 (page 9)
opportunities for high volume tenders
but also impacts pricing.GSK Annual Report 2015 11
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our business model
Our success depends on our ability to research and
develop innovative healthcare products and make
them accessible to as many people as possible.
To deliver our mission, we must align all Our business model is designed to If we do this well, it will lead to profitable
our inputs behind our strategic priorities. deliver a range of outputs for patients, and sustainable performance. In turn this
We harness our primary inputs set out below, shareholders and society. In addition to allows us to generate value and returns
to strengthen our ability to make products direct benefits for patients, consumers for our shareholders and enables us to
that satisfy unmet needs, offer cost effective and shareholders, a successful business reinvest in the business.
healthcare options to our customers, and will help build strong societies and make
increase access to our vaccines, medicines direct and indirect contributions in the
and consumer healthcare products. countries where it operates through tax,
employment and charitable support.
Inputs Our businesses Our operations Outputs
Unmet medical needs Pharmaceuticals R&D Healthcare benefits
Discovering and to patients and
developing innovative consumers
Scientific and healthcare products
technological expertise Sustainable
sales growth
Macro socio-economic Vaccines Manufacturing
environment Making and distributing Returns to
shareholders
quality products
Financial resources around the world
Benefits to society
(including tax,
Collaborations Consumer Healthcare Commercialisation employment and
and partnerships and distribution charitable support)
Improving access
Our people and to our products Profits and cashflow
culture generation
Reinvestment12 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our strategic priorities
Our strategy is designed to generate improved sales
and earnings growth, sustainable returns to shareholders
and benefits to patients and consumers.
Our strategic Our strategic
priorities progress in 2015
Novartis transaction completed,
Grow significantly strengthening our Vaccines
and Consumer Healthcare businesses.
Strong performance of new
A balanced business
Pharmaceutical and Vaccine products
Create a balanced business and with £2 billion sales in 2015.
product portfolio, capable of delivering
sustainable sales and earnings growth, Successful OTC launch of Flonase
centred on three businesses of Allergy Relief in the US.
Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines, and
Consumer Healthcare.
Read more on pages 22, 28 and 36.
Launch in US of Nucala for eosinophilic
Deliver asthma, and approval in Europe.
Positive phase III data for Shingrix,
More products of value our candidate shingles vaccine.
Research and develop high quality, Filed first gene therapy for rare disease
innovative products that offer valuable (ADA-SCID) in Europe.
improvements in treatment for patients,
consumers and healthcare providers.
Read more on pages 22, 29 and 36.
Integration and restructuring cost savings
Simplify on track.
53 Pharmaceuticals and Consumer
Our operating model Healthcare markets live on GSK’s global ERP
Transform how we operate to reduce system since the first 'go live' in August 2011.
complexity, increase efficiency and free Consumer Healthcare supply achieved average
up resources to reinvest elsewhere in service levels of 93% OTIF (on time in full).*
the business, or return to shareholders
wherever we see the most attractive 100% on time supply for all key new
returns. pharmaceutical product introduction
launches in 2015 across all markets.
Read more on pages 25, 31 and 37.
* Legacy GSK brands
Responsible Malaria candidate vaccine, (RTS,S)
business received a positive opinion from
European regulators.
Being a responsible business is central Continued to transform commercial
to our strategy, and how we deliver model to drive growth and build trust,
success is just as important as what reshaping our relationships with
we achieve. healthcare professionals and
implementing a new sales force
We ensure our values are embedded in
compensation approach.
our culture and decision making to help us
better meet the expectations of society.
Read more on pages 38 to 49.GSK Annual Report 2015 13
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Key challenges Our performance Our future
in 2015 in 2015 priorities
Continued pricing pressure in the Deliver 2016 earnings guidance for
£23.9bn
US and Europe. core EPS percentage growth to reach
double digits CER.
Changes in US market dynamics
impacting speed of uptake of new Group turnover Drive sales of new products to meet
product launches. target of £6 billion in annual turnover.*
75.7p
Slowing emerging market economies. Group core EPS of mid-to-high single
digit CAGR growth on a CER basis
Read more about our global
over the five year period 2016-2020.*
marketplace on pages 8 to 10. Core earnings per share*
* At its Investor event on 6 May 2015, GSK
* A reconciliation of total results to core outlined a series of expectations for its
results is set out on page 62. performance over the five year period
2016-2020. See inside back cover.
Ensure continued focus on R&D File for approval key products including
~40
delivery during ongoing restructuring Shingrix, Benlysta subcutaneous,
programme including site rationalisation. sirukumab and closed triple (EU)
in 2016.
Integration of Novartis' vaccines new potential medicines and vaccines
pipeline. in our pipeline profiled at R&D event* Deliver up to 10 phase III starts and
up to 20 phase II starts in 2016/7.
SUMMIT study did not show statistically * GSK R&D event on 3 November 2015.
significant mortality benefit from Relvar/ Complete integration of BMS pipeline
~13%
Breo Ellipta in COPD patients. of HIV medicines.
estimated internal rate of return
on R&D investment
Complexity of integrating 12,000 Deliver incremental annual savings
employees into Consumer Healthcare £1.0bn of £0.8 billion in 2016, £0.6 billion
and Vaccines businesses. in 2017 bringing the total to £3 billion
annual savings by end 2017.*
Rolling out new systems (eg ERP) at
in incremental annual cost savings
scale across many markets. Continue to streamline product portfolio,
delivered in 2015
reduce complexity in formulations and
Transfer of marketed Oncology
products to Novartis. 27% packaging formats, and embed common processes and platforms.
Read more about our approach to risk Integrate reporting systems following
on pages 16 and 17, and our global reduction in number of pharmaceuticals Novartis transaction.
marketplace on pages 8 to 10. pack variants (against 2012 baseline)
* £1.6 billion savings achieved as at
31 December 2015.
Reducing value chain carbon emissions Support the delivery of our malaria
82%
while demand for products with a high vaccine at a not-for-profit price through
carbon footprint, such as Ventolin, key partnerships.
is increasing.
Dow Jones Sustainability Index score Continue to enhance governance,
Strengthening our values-based culture compliance and quality through
and further encouraging the reporting 1st proactive risk management and
of any concerns. quality-led culture.
Change programme to transform our We have led the Access to Medicine Continue to improve leadership
commercial model. Index since 2008 effectiveness and quality of talent.14 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
How we performed
We measure our performance against a number
of key performance indicators and the remuneration
of our executives is based on many of these.
Group turnover £23.9bn
How we performed
Turnover was up 6% on a reported
basis and up 1% pro-forma. On a
pro-forma basis, higher sales in HIV,
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare Growth CER %
were partly offset by lower Global
Pharmaceutical sales. Reported 1 (3)* 6
Pro-forma 1
30 26.5
25 25.6*
23.0 23.9
20
15
10
* excluding divestments completed 5
in 2013
0 2013 2014 2015
New Pharmaceutical and £2.0bn
Vaccine product performance
Definition
New products identified at the Investor
event in 2015 are expected to deliver
at least £6 billion of sales per annum Growth Growth
on a CER basis by 2020. This target
CER% >100 >100 £% (18) (21) (5)
is now expected to be reached up to
two years earlier.
How we performed 2.0 2.0 06 5.2
Sales of new products were
£2.0 billion in 2015 and represented 05 4.1
11% of Pharmaceutical and Vaccines 1.5
turnover. 04 3.7 3.8 3.9
1.0 03
02
0.5
0.4 01
0.1
0 2013 2014 2015 0 2013 2014 2015
sdnediviD sdnediviD sdnediviD
Pharmaceuticals turnover £14.2bn
How we performed
Turnover was down 7% on a reported
basis and down 1% pro-forma.
Growth in HIV products, primarily
Tivicay and Triumeq, was offset by the Growth CER %
continued decline in Seretide/Advair
sales, due to price pressure and Reported 2 (5)* (7)
increased generic competition.
Pro-forma (1)
17.7
18
17.3*
15 15.4
14.2
12
09
06
* excluding divestments completed 03
in 2013
0 2013 2014 2015
Vaccines turnover £3.7bn Consumer Healthcare £6.0bn
turnover
How we performed
Turnover was up 19% on a reported How we performed
basis and 3% pro-forma. The Turnover grew 44% on a reported
business benefited from the basis, and 6% pro-forma. The
newly acquired Meningitis portfolio. Growth CER % business benefited from sales Growth CER %
Pro-forma growth was driven of the newly acquired products,
by strong Rotarix, FluLaval and Reported 2 (1) 19 particularly Voltaren, Otrivin and Reported 2 (1)* 44
Boostrix sales in the US and Pro-forma 3 Theraflu. Pro-forma growth was Pro-forma 6
Bexsero sales in Europe and predominantly driven by the Oral
the US. 06 health and Wellness categories. 06 5.2 6.0
05 05
4.7*
4.3
04 04
3.4 3.7
03 3.2 03
02 02
01 * excluding divestments completed 01
in 2013
0 2013 2014 2015 0 2013 2014 2015
Cash returned to £3.9bn
shareholders
How we performed
During 2015, GSK returned
£3.9 billion to shareholders in
dividends. In 2014, we returned
£4.1 billion to shareholders, £3.8
billion in dividends and £0.3 billion
through share repurchases.GSK Annual Report 2015 15
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Total operating £10.3bn Core operating £5.7bn
profit and margin profit and margina
How we performed Definition
Total operating profit was Core results exclude a number of items
£10.3 billion. Excluding currency from total results. A full definition of core
effects, the total operating margin Growth results can be found on page 54 and a Growth CER %
increased 27.7 percentage points reconciliation between total results and
CER% (1) (40) >100 Reported – (6)* (9)
to 43.1%, primarily reflecting core results is provided on page 62.
higher profits on the disposal of the £% (4) (49) >100 How we performed Pro-forma (3)
Oncology business and other assets,
partly offset by an increase in the 12 43.1% Core operating profit was £5.7 billion. 12
Excluding currency effects, the
contingent consideration liability 10 10.3 core operating margin declined 4.1 10 30.4%*
payable in relation to ViiV Healthcare 8.0
as a result of higher sales outlook 08 26.5% percentage points to 23.9%, primarily 08 28.7%
S if no G r
b
T & ui sAv ii nc c ea o sy s sta s mn fd io
x
T l l aor fi wu tem i rn e g thq t e, h a Nen ocd vh ah a ri ng tigh se e sr 06 7.0
15.6%
r imefl pe ac ct ti n og f ta h 3 e % N op ve ar rc tie sn tt ra ag ne s ap co ti in ot n . 06 7.8* 6.6 23 5. .9 7%
04 04 transaction. 3.6
02 * excluding divestments completed 02
in 2013
0 2013 2014 2015 0 2013 2014 2015
Total earnings per share 174.3p Core earnings per sharea 75.7p
How we performed Definition
Total earnings per share was Core results exclude a number of items
174.3p, compared with 57.3p in from total results. A full definition of core
2014 primarily reflecting increased results can be found on page 54 and a
business and asset disposal gains Growth reconciliation between total results and Growth
partly offset by an increase in the core results is provided on page 62.
contingent consideration liability CER% 27 (40) >100 CER% 4 (1)* (15)
How we performed
payable in relation to ViiV Healthcare
£% 23 (49) >100 Core EPS decreased 15% primarily £% 1 (12)* (21)
as a result of higher sales outlook for
reflecting the short-term dilution
Tivicay and Triumeq. 180 174.3 of the Novartis transaction and the 150
150 impact of the continuing transition 125 112.2
of the Pharmaceuticals business, 108.4*
120 particularly in Respiratory. 100
112.5 95.4
90 75 75.7
60 57.3 50
30 * excluding divestments completed 25
in 2013
0 2013 2014 2015 0 2013 2014 2015
Free cash flowa £(0.2)bn Net debt £10.7bn
Definition Definition
The calculations of free cash flow and Net debt comprises bank loans and
adjusted free cash flow are described overdrafts, obligations under finance
on page 54 and reconciliations are leases and commercial paper and
provided on page 65. Growth bonds issued by GSK less cash and
How we performed £% >100 (44) n/a liquid investments. 16
F exre ce lu c da ins gh lo eu gt afl l o sw et w tlea ms e£ n0 ts.2 , pb ail yli mon e, n b tsu t 5.3* H Tho ew n w ete p p roe cr efo er dm s e frd om the disposal 14 14.4
of restructuring costs and the initial tax 05 of the Oncology business and other 12 12.6
payments on the Oncology disposal, 4.7 3.9* assets enabled us to accelerate
free cash flow was £2.5 billion 04 our restructuring and integration 10 10.7
compared with £3.9 billion in 2014. programmes, return £3.9 billion of
The decline reflected the initial impact 03 2.5* cash to shareholders as dividends 08
2.6
of the Novartis transaction and lower and reduce net debt by £3.7 billion.
02 06
operating profits.
* Free cash flow excluding payments 01 04
for legal costs, restructuring and 0 02
(0.2)
tax on the Oncology disposal.
(01) 2013 2014 2015 0 2013 2014 2015
Footnote
a W e use a number of adjusted measures to report the performance
of our business, as described on page 54. These include core results,
which are used by management for planning and reporting purposes
and may not be directly comparable with similarly described measures
used by other companies.16 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our approach to risk
Rigorous and consistent risk management processes
and systems help us assure the integrity of our
business operations.
Effective risk management is key to
Principal risk
sustainable business success. Our
established risk management framework, and definition
coupled with our internal controls, helps us
maintain our focus on managing the principal
risks affecting our business.
The principal risks listed in the table
opposite are those we believe could cause Patient safety
our results to differ materially from expected Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, or report adverse events
and historical results. They are also the risks from all potential sources, and to act on any relevant findings in a timely manner.
that may significantly impact our strategic
priorities of Grow, Deliver and Simplify.
Our Corporate Executive Team review the Intellectual property
principal risks annually in the fourth quarter Failure to appropriately secure and protect intellectual property rights.
to assure appropriateness for the following
year. In 2015, it was agreed to consolidate
the reporting and descriptions of a number
of principal risks to align with how these
Product quality
are managed across the business, this
Failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) or
consolidated list is reported opposite.
inadequate controls and governance of quality in the supply chain covering
Within the table, we have summarised how supplier standards, manufacturing and distribution of products.
we define each risk and our assessment
of the change in risk during 2015. This
assessment is based on the external Financial control and reporting
environment in which we operate, our Failure to comply with current tax law or incurring significant losses due to
business operations and the impact of our treasury activities; failure to report accurate financial information in compliance
internal controls on the severity of the risk in with accounting standards and applicable legislation; failure to maintain adequate
the period. Our risk exposure is continually governance and oversight over third-party relationships.
reviewed by senior management and is
therefore subject to change as a result of
internal and external factors, future events
Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABAC)
or otherwise. For full details on the definition,
Failure to prevent GSK employees and third parties not complying with our ABAC
context, potential impact and mitigating
principles and standards, as well as with all applicable legislation.
activities see pages 231 to 240.
Progress in 2015
We established a Global Risk Management
Office to help drive best practices and Commercialisation
standards across the business. Its remit Failure to execute business strategies, or manage competitive opportunities or
includes standardising our methodology for threats effectively and in accordance with the letter and spirit of legal, industry
managing the principal risks and identifying and company requirements.
significant emerging risks to our business.
We continued to evolve our anti-bribery
and corruption team, with enhanced Research practices
resourcing and focus, with a remit that Failure to adequately conduct ethical and sound preclinical and clinical research.
includes third party oversight (TPO). We also In addition, failure to engage in scientific activities that are consistent with the letter
commissioned external assessors to evaluate and spirit of the law, industry, or the Group’s requirements.
our highest risk suppliers and distributors.
Building on efforts in 2014, we enhanced Environment, Health and Safety and Sustainability (EHSS)
and standardised our approach to regional Failure to manage EHSS risks in line with our objectives and policies and with
reviews of our internal controls, with our relevant laws and regulations.
Pharmaceuticals business the first to be
assessed using our new approach. The
annual reviews, which enable us to confirm Information protection
that company standards, local laws and Failure to protect and maintain access to critical or sensitive computer systems
regulations are understood and adhered to, or information.
will take place in all our businesses in 2016.
Our viability statement on page 52 sets out
our assessment of the prospects of the Group Crisis and continuity management
over the next three years, and has been made Inability to recover and sustain critical operations, including key supply chains,
with reference to, amongst other things, our following a disruption, or to respond to a crisis incident, in a timely manner.
principal risks and how these are managed.GSK Annual Report 2015 17
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
How we manage the risk and our assessment
of the change in risk during 2015
Increased risk No change to risk Decreased risk
Our Chief Medical Officer leads a large Global Safety and Pharmacovigilance team, which maintains global policies to guide
our employees.
This risk remains of paramount focus for us and we have mature and rigorous controls in place to manage it.
Our Global Patents group continually analyses changes in patent laws and regulations and ensures that they are incorporated
into our processes.
Our continued focus on ensuring we have robust and effective processes in place has meant that our assessment of this risk
has not changed from 2014.
Our Chief Product Quality Officer is accountable for our Quality Management System including implementation of associated
policies and leading our global network of Quality Councils.
In our view, this risk has continued to escalate due to increased regulations and sanctions across all companies in our sector.
In response, we have significantly invested in, reinforced and strengthened the quality culture of the organisation.
Our Chief Financial Officer and Group Financial Controller oversee our internal controls relating to financial information and
reporting, tax and treasury.
We introduced additional resources and monitoring to ensure that robust financial controls were maintained during 2015,
effectively managing risks while the initial phase of integrating the former Novartis’ businesses into our control and reporting
framework were implemented, and the ongoing transformation and upgrade to our financial systems and processes continued.
Additional risk mitigation was introduced by amending the programme timelines of the ongoing system upgrades.
We have an extensive global ABAC programme, policy and procedure, which includes training of all our employees.
Whilst this risk remained significant to GSK in 2015, the continuous improvements in our compliance training programmes
as well as a review and reduction of our presence in a number of 'high risk' markets, manage the bribery and corruption risk
exposure presented through our global business operations.
We have a single global standard for promotional and marketing activities for GSK products to which all employees including
third parties acting on our behalf must comply.
In 2015 we introduced changes to how we engage with healthcare providers and implemented a new sales force incentive
model globally, which we believe has decreased the level of risk. Our business is also structured to provide access to fast
growing demand for healthcare and a balanced exposure to future changes in the industry environment.
We have governance systems and controls to oversee our clinical trial research, use of biological samples, and data integrity
in all of our key systems.
While there is continued focus on regulatory inspections, we have in place established quality assurance programmes
ensuring we have continued adherence to regulatory requirements.
We have global EHSS standards that support clear policies which all employees are trained on.
We believe the overall management of EHSS risk remains effective. GSK is reducing risk in both employee harm and
traditional enterprise disruption categories such as process safety at our high risk chemical manufacturing facilities.
Our Chief Information Security Officer oversees our global information policy and programme and regularly assesses
changes by monitoring both our internal systems and the external environment.
We believe this risk has increased for all major companies during the year including ourselves, due to the prominence of
external threats. Internally, we continue to invest in improving capabilities and technological solutions to counter this threat.
Our Crisis and Continuity Management (CCM) governance board, supported by a team of CCM experts ensure that critical
business operations have plans in place.
Potential disruptions to our business will continue to be a risk, but we have established governance boards within each of our
businesses and continue to learn from plan activations, enabling us to continue to drive improvements in our programme.18 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
PharmaceuticalsGSK Annual Report 2015 19
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our Pharmaceuticals
business discovers, develops
and commercialises medicines
to treat a broad range of
the world’s most common
acute and chronic diseases.
In numbers
c.60,000
number of employeesa
£2.3bn
core R&D spend in 2015
c.2 billion
packs of medicine produced
in 2015
~40
around 40 new potential medicines
and vaccines in our pipeline
profiled at R&D eventb
a Including GMS, R&D and dedicated
support functions staff.
b GSK R&D event on 3 November 2015.20 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pharmaceuticals
Our Pharmaceuticals portfolio is
2015 performance
made up of innovative and established We have strengthened our
summary medicines and we hold leading global
respiratory portfolio and are
positions in respiratory disease and HIV.
This is underpinned by our innovative researching next-generation
£14.2bn Pharmaceuticals R&D organisation which
drives the discovery and development treatments with potential
in several core areas of research: HIV
to alter the fundamental
Turnover and infectious diseases, oncology,
immuno-inflammation, respiratory course of disease
-7% and rare diseases.
Respiratory
We have the most extensive portfolio We are focused on successfully
Reported sales growth CER
of respiratory products in the industry. transitioning to this new portfolio and
-1%
Seretide/Advair remains the world’s best accelerating growth of these products
selling branded respiratory product and and our expectation is that by 2020,
Pro-forma sales growth CER we continue to lead scientific innovation nine products are expected to account
in this area, working to ensure patients for approximately 90% of sales in
receive the most effective therapy possible respiratory, compared to four in 2015.
£4.3bn
through the most convenient devices.
We are targeting research at a portfolio
Over the past three years we have of potential next-generation treatments
Core operating profit significantly broadened and strengthened for respiratory disease, beyond the current
our respiratory portfolio with the launch approach with inhaled medicines. In 2015,
of Relvar/Breo Ellipta, Anoro Ellipta, we launched Nucala (mepolizumab), GSK's
Incruse Ellipta and Arnuity Ellipta. first injectable biologic for severe asthma.
Multiple other potential medicines targeting
All these medicines are administered
the underlying causes of respiratory disease
using our easy to use, patented dry
are also in development.
powder inhaler, Ellipta.
Our strategy
in action
By 2020, nine products are
expected to account for
approximately 90% of sales £1.3bn
16.5%
in Respiratory compared to
four in 2015
Tivicay and Triumeq
New Pharmaceutical products
sales in 2015
now make up 16.5% of overall
Pharmaceutical sales turnoverGSK Annual Report 2015 21
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
HIV
We also have a strong presence in HIV. Advancing treatments to benefit people
Our global HIV business which is managed
living with HIV
through ViiV Healthcare, a company
majority, 78.3% owned by GSK, with
Pfizer and Shionogi as the other Tivicay has been prescribed to more Access to our HIV treatments is a
shareholders, is one of the leading than 105,000 people living with HIV major focus and is reflected in the
HIV companies in the world. since it was launched in August 2013, regulatory strategy we are taking
and Triumeq to more than 75,000 for our dolutegravir-based regimen.
The strong recent performance of since August 2014. We are seeking regulatory approval
our HIV business is principally led of these products in as many countries
by Tivicay (dolutegravir), an innovative Their strong sales momentum, totalling as possible as well as facilitating the
integrase strand transfer inhibitor, £1.3bn in 2015, positively supported approval process of generic versions
and by the single-pill treatment Triumeq our Pharmaceuticals business. In the of dolutegravir in countries where the
– a combination of dolutegravir, abacavir US and many other countries, their need is most pressing.
and lamivudine. performance has now overtaken
previously leading third agents. 2015 saw the first filing of a generic
We have a significant HIV R&D pipeline Building on this success, Japan is the dolutegravir by Aurobindo, supported
and are exploring new therapies for patients first country where ViiV Healthcare by ViiV Healthcare’s partnership with
that could potentially enable long-term has now established a leadership the Clinton Health Access Initiative.
HIV control through infrequent dosing. position as the country’s largest In 2015, ViiV Healthcare also signed an
In early 2016, ViiV Healthcare acquired HIV company. innovative manufacturing partnership
Bristol-Myers Squibb’s late stage HIV As we continue to evolve the way we with Desano Pharmaceuticals to enable
R&D assets and portfolio of preclinical engage with healthcare professionals, the competitive supply of dolutegravir
and discovery stage HIV research assets. our Tivicay and Triumeq launches in China and a number of developing
The acquisitions are expected to strengthen have also demonstrated how digital countries. By the end of 2015, Tivicay
the Group's leadership in HIV, and provide communication can enhance our was available in 61 countries and
us with further new opportunities for growth. interactions with them. Triumeq in 30.
Specialty and Established Products
Our rapid digital launch campaign >105,000
In addition to respiratory and HIV, saw open (64%) and click through
we sell several other innovative rates (34%), which were significantly
pharmaceutical products, including above the industry average. This
Benlysta, for the treatment of lupus digital focus, which has been positively Tivicay has been prescribed to more
disease, and Tanzeum/Eperzan, for commented on by customers, remains than 105,000 people living with HIV
Type 2 diabetes. a key priority. since it was launched in August 2013
Our Established Products portfolio
includes mature medicines in the areas
of anti-infectives, allergy, central nervous
system, dermatology, respiratory and
urology. These products are an important
part of our Emerging Markets business –
where we sell 40% more by volume than
our second largest competitor.
~40
We sell 40% more
volume of pharmaceutical new potential
products in emerging medicines and vaccines in our
GSK has the potential
markets than our second pipeline profiled at R&D event*
to file up to 20 assets
largest competitor
80% with regulators by 2020
of which we
believe are potentially first-in-class
* GSK R&D event on 3 November 201522 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pharmaceuticals
continued
Grow Deliver
New Pharmaceutical
product sales in 2015 2015 performance summary Pharmaceuticals pipeline progress
In 2015, new products made an increasing In 2015, we continued to progress our
more than offset the contribution particularly in respiratory and Pharmaceutical R&D pipeline, which we
HIV. Restructuring of the Pharmaceuticals believe offers significant opportunity to drive
decline in Seretide/Advair
cost base also continued. the long-term performance of the Group.
of £548 million
Reported Pharmaceutical sales were Our late stage pipeline delivered a new
£14,166 million, down 7% CER, primarily and first-in-class medicine, with the
reflecting the disposal of marketed approval in the US and Europe of
oncology products. Adjusting for the Nucala, our anti-IL-5 monoclonal antibody
disposal, pro-forma turnover declined 1%, for the treatment of severe asthma with
reflecting a 7% decline in respiratory sales eosinophilic inflammation. The indication
and a 15% decline in sales of Established for Breo Ellipta was also expanded in the
Products. This was largely offset by the US with approval for the treatment of adults
growth in new Pharmaceutical products with asthma.
which had sales of £1,713 million, an
In rare diseases, we filed for European
increase of £1,284 million. Strong
approval of Strimvelis, a gene therapy to
performance from HIV products, Triumeq
treat patients with adenosine deaminase
and Tivicay, together with an acceleration
severe combined immunodeficiency
in sales of new respiratory products helped
syndrome (ADA-SCID) – if approved it
deliver this performance.
will be the first corrective gene therapy
New Pharmaceutical product sales more to be approved anywhere in the world.
than offset the decline in Seretide/Advair
In immuno-inflammation positive results
of £548 million. Global Seretide/Advair
were achieved in phase III studies
sales were £3.7 billion, down approximately
investigating subcutaneous Benlysta
30% from their peak in 2013.
(lupus) and sirukumab (rheumatoid
In 2015, we made significant changes to arthritis), with regulatory filings expected
further modernise our commercial model. for both medicines in 2016.
We stopped paying healthcare
We received data in 2015 from SUMMIT,
professionals (HCPs) to speak about
the Study to Understand Mortality and
our products and instead have recruited
MorbidITy in COPD. While SUMMIT did
a number of in-house medical experts.
not achieve statistical significance on the
In addition, we have increased our digital
primary endpoint, data generated from the
communications with HCPs through
study will inform the overall profile of the
webinars and ‘click to chat’ facilities
medicine and are expected to be submitted
enabling HCPs to talk in real time to
to authorities for label updates.
GSK medical experts. Reactions from
our customers has been very positive
and we believe these changes offer GSK
a source of a competitive advantage.
Read more in the Group financial
review on pages 50 to 72.GSK Annual Report 2015 23
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
In 2015, we began phase III studies
investigating our closed triple ICS/LAMA/
LABA combination treatment (COPD),
dolutegravir in combination with Janssen's
rilpivirine (HIV infection), sirukumab (giant
cell arteritis) and retosiban (pre-term
labour). We stopped development of
losmapimod as an anti-inflammatory agent
for patients with acute coronary syndrome,
when an interim analysis of data from an
ongoing phase III trial failed to show an
efficacy signal. As per the stepwise trial
design, this interim review enabled us to
limit further investment in the study.
Deep portfolio of innovation
In 2015, we profiled a portfolio of
innovative medicines, focused across
five core areas of pharmaceuticals
research – HIV and infectious diseases,
respiratory, oncology, immuno-inflammation
and rare diseases – and vaccines R&D
(see separate section). In total around
40 new potential medicines and vaccines
were profiled, supporting the Group’s
outlook for growth in the period 2016-2020
and the significant opportunity our Group
has to create value beyond 2020.
We believe approximately 80% of the Two decades of innovative science delivers the first
medicines reviewed have the potential
biologic treatment for severe eosinophilic asthma patients
to be first-in-class with novel mechanisms
of action. As a result, many may offer
benefits beyond current standards of This year’s US and EU regulatory Less than 10% of asthma patients
care and, in some cases, could radically approvals for our severe asthma have severe asthma and a proportion
transform how patients are treated. treatment Nucala (mepolizumab) of these have severe eosinophilic asthma.
were key milestones in a long journey Many struggle to control their asthma
In developing this portfolio of innovative
of discovery. despite medication, experiencing
medicines we have focused on targeting
frequent asthma attacks and regular
immune mechanisms that could alter the Nucala, GSK’s first injectable respiratory
hospitalisation. They are some
fundamental course of diseases, modify biologic therapy, was identified as a
of the hardest to treat patients and
disease progression and present us with potential respiratory treatment in 1995.
the condition o(cid:2)en results in a
opportunities to achieve remission and At that time, we were considering it as
disproportionately high burden on
functional cures. We are developing a treatment for mild to moderate asthma.
the patients and healthcare systems.
simplified treatment regimens and a However, initial results in this patient
potential new generation of long-acting group were disappointing. With nine studies involving over
medicines to provide long-term control and 1,300 people, our research has allowed
Our R&D team did not give up on
improve treatment outcomes for patients. us to better understand the specific role
mepolizumab. We believed it had great
Next generation technology platforms are eosinophils play in severe asthma and has
potential if we could use emerging
also being used by our scientists, to led to the approval of the first-in-class
science to identify which patients could
increase our understanding of fundamental approved targeted treatment for severe
benefit most.
disease mechanisms so we can develop eosinophilic asthma patients.
new approaches to disease management Aided by a growing understanding about
and control. the causes of asthma, in particular the
role of the eosinophil – a type of white 1st
blood cell that can cause inflammation
in the lungs – we focused our research
to look specifically at severe eosinophilic
first-in-class biologic
asthma patients.
therapy that targets
the IL-5 antibody24 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pharmaceuticals
continued
Notable advances within our
Our scientists are using Pharmaceutical R&D portfolio include
potential leading-edge molecules in the
next generation technology
field of epigenetics and immuno-oncology
platforms to increase for the treatment of cancer, the next
generation of respiratory medicines beyond
our understanding of inhaled treatments and a portfolio of new
antibodies for inflammatory diseases
fundamental disease
including rheumatoid arthritis, autoimmune
mechanisms so we can diseases and osteoarthritis. We are
investigating potential new options for
develop new approaches
long-term control and prevention of HIV,
to disease management opportunities designed to cure or induce
long-term remission in both Hepatitis B
and control and C and, in Rare Diseases, potential In total, we have the potential to file up
breakthrough cell and gene therapies. to 20 assets with the regulators by 2020,
and between 2021 and 2025 up to
2016/2017 milestones 20 additional innovative assets now
In 2016/2017 we expect a number of in clinical development.
significant development milestones in our
Pharmaceuticals R&D approach
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines pipelines
with up to ten regulatory filings including We are highly selective with our R&D,
Shingrix (shingles vaccine), sirukumab investing only in areas where we see the
(rheumatoid arthritis), subcutaneous best opportunities, having considered
Benlysta (lupus) and our closed triple patient need, the market opportunity and
ICS/LAMA/LABA combination treatment scientific understanding. We are also
in COPD (EU). committed to improving our R&D
productivity, so we can develop more
We also expect up to ten phase III starts, innovative new medicines and vaccines
including cabotegravir (HIV), daprodustat with greater efficiency.
(anaemia) and our pentavalent candidate
vaccine for the prevention of meningococcal In 2009, we committed to publishing our
meningitis, Men ABCWY, and up to 20 estimated R&D internal rate of return (IRR),
phase II starts in immuno-inflammation, based on the investment made in our late
oncology, respiratory and infectious stage pipeline and our expectations
diseases. regarding long-term sales performance.
This was estimated to be 11% in 2009 and
2011, and 13% in 2013. Applying the same
methodology, the estimated IRR in 2015
has remained at 13%.
Timeline and development stages for pharmaceutical research
Drug Regulatory Approval and Post-marketing
Preclinical Clinical trials
discovery review launch surveillance
Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3
8,000 - 10,000
compounds
250 compounds
8 compounds
3-6 years 6-7 years 0.5-2 years
Investigational New Drug application submitted Investigational New Drug application submittedGSK Annual Report 2015 25
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Collaboration with external
partners is a critical
component of our R&D
strategy, enabling us to
access and increase our
understanding of new areas
of science and share the
risk of development
Our early research efforts are centred
around discovery performance units
(DPUs). These nimble, personalised units,
with their own budgets and so greater
accountability for their projects, are far
removed from the traditional hierarchical
R&D business model. They help us to
maintain flexibility in our research
investment, while focusing on the most
promising scientific opportunities – to drive
and accelerate drug discovery output.
Cost savings generated from
Today we have around 30 DPUs, of which Simplify
Pharmaceuticals restructuring will support
two thirds are from the original units
established in 2009. Progress on simplifying the business delivery of £3 billion annual savings for
the Group by the end of 2017.
In 2015, we significantly reshaped our
The responsibility for guiding an
Pharmaceuticals business, and continued Together with the improved performance
investigational medicine through the later
to reduce supply chain complexity, while of new products, this restructuring will
development stages to filing with regulators
retaining our commitment to quality. We improve the flexibility of our cost base and
rests with our medicines development
have rescaled the commercial operations, allow us to offset the headwinds to our
teams, which are small units of six to
global support functions, R&D and operating margin from the continued
10 people.
manufacturing that support this business. decline in Seretide/Advair and other older
We have also partnered with more than products, while also supporting enhanced
Our supply chain improvement programme
1,500 organisations around the world, investments behind our new products
aims to deliver industry-leading levels of
including academic institutions, the growth of which is key to deliver on
performance. Since 2012, this programme
public-private partnerships and other our expected medium-term outlook to
has delivered significant savings through
pharmaceutical and biotechnology 2020 for the Pharmaceuticals business.
procurement excellence (how and what
companies. Such collaboration with
we buy), logistics (distribution), portfolio We are committed to meeting the highest
external partners is a critical component
optimisation – reducing the number of standards through stringent quality control
of our R&D strategy, enabling us to access
pharmaceutical pack variants by 27% and quality assurance processes. Our
and increase our understanding of new
(against the 2012 baseline), and medicines and vaccines are manufactured
areas of science and share the risk of
streamlining our external supply according to Good Manufacturing Practice
development. As a result of this
network by 35%. (cGMP) regulations, and our internal collaborative culture within GSK R&D,
quality management system. In 2015,
we estimate around 60% of the new We have strengthened our logistics
we had 86 regulatory inspections,
molecular entities (NMEs) currently in operations by establishing five regional
and the vast majority concluded with
clinical development were discovered supply and demand hubs, enabling more
satisfactory outcomes. We are working
internally and 40% from collaborations efficient use of our warehouses and
with regulators to bring those inspections
and external partners. transport reducing ‘cost to serve’ by
with remaining concerns to an acceptable
£136 million.
The great time and cost involved in conclusion. In August 2015, following
drug discovery and development make The ongoing roll-out of our Enterprise a US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
it essential that we are highly selective Resource Planning (ERP) system across re-inspection, the 2014 warning letter
in investing and focusing our resources. our commercial markets and manufacturing relating to our Cork manufacturing site
The R&D executive team oversees strategic sites is a critical part of our transformation. was lifted.
issues and overall budget management Coupled with new planning capabilities,
across R&D, while robust governance this increases end-to-end visibility and
boards manage investment, technical, control, helping ensure supply and demand
scientific and commercial decisions are robust and aligned. These changes
through the life cycle of R&D and once will help improve service to our patients
a new medicine has launched. and consumers.26 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
VaccinesGSK Annual Report 2015 27
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our Vaccines business is
one of the largest in the
world. We develop and make
vaccines that protect against
a wide range of diseases.
In numbers
c.15,000
number of employeesa
£0.5bn
core R&D spend in 2015
39
licensed vaccines protecting
against 21 diseases
c.1.9 million
vaccines delivered every day
15
candidate vaccines in our pipeline
a Including GMS, R&D and dedicated
support functions staff.28 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Vaccines
Our Vaccines portfolio is the broadest of
2015 performance Grow
any vaccines company. We make available
summary 39 paediatric, adolescent, adult and travel 2015 performance summary
vaccines that protect against 21 different Reported Vaccines sales grew 19% to
diseases, including: hepatitis, influenza, £3,657 million with the US up 24%, Europe
£3.7bn pneumococcal disease, rotavirus and up 23% and International up 12%, as the
cervical cancer. business benefited from sales of the newly
Turnover With the addition of the Novartis portfolio acquired products. On a pro-forma basis
we gained two vaccines for the prevention sales grew 3% with good contributions
of meningitis, Menveo, which is approved from Rotarix, Fluarix/FluLaval and Boostrix.
+19% in the US for babies above two months In addition, we saw rapid sales growth of
and is marketed in 62 countries worldwide, our new meningitis vaccine portfolio,
and Bexsero, a new meningitis B vaccine Menveo and Bexsero, with sales up 43%
Reported sales growth CER
+3% currently available in 38 countries. pro-forma to £275 million. Notable was the
decision made by the UK's National Health
Our new vaccine R&D pipeline brings Service to include Bexsero in its national
Pro-forma sales growth CER together expertise in virology, bacterial immunisation programme. Overall, growth
infection and different technological was partly offset by declines in pro-forma
platforms. We have 15 candidate vaccines sales of hepatitis A vaccines and Infanrix/
£1.0bn
in development against diseases including Pediarix. Sales were also impacted during
shingles, meningitis, RSV, Group B strep the year by higher trade inventories
Core operating profit and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease inherited with the newly acquired vaccines
(COPD) exacerbations. in some international markets.
The expansion of our portfolio has
boosted our offering around the world,
Read more in the Group financial
review on pages 50 to 72.
notably in the US, where Novartis had
a strong presence and track record of
regulatory approvals. GSK’s significant
presence in emerging and developing
In 2015, we continued
countries is also providing new
opportunities for the introduction and to make progress in our
growth of newly acquired vaccines.
promising pipeline that
For many years, we have used a ‘tiered
pricing’ approach for our vaccines, based will support future growth
on gross national income, which enables in our Vaccines business
countries to maintain and expand their
commitment to immunisation as their
economies grow. We are one of the largest
contributors to Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance,
a public-private partnership to improve
access to vaccines in developing countries.
For more about our efforts to improve
access to our medicines and vaccines,
see our Responsible business section
on page 38.
Our strategy
in action
26.4%
Our unique, world leading
£275m
expertise in adjuvant technology
Vaccines operating
could make a difference in
margin in 2015
helping protect against diseases
like malaria, cervical cancer
(+43%) Bexsero and Menveo
or pandemic flu
combined global sales in 2015*
* Based on 2015 pro-forma CER
for newly acquired meningitis portfolioGSK Annual Report 2015 29
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Deliver
Vaccines pipeline progress in 2015
Our Vaccine R&D work focuses on
discovering and developing new
prophylactic and therapeutic vaccines
to help protect and treat people against
serious diseases. We currently have
15 candidate vaccines in early, mid and
late-stage development against a range
of diseases.
In 2015, we reported further positive pivotal
phase III trial data in adults over 70 for our
most advanced candidate, Shingrix, for
the prevention of shingles. We intend to
file global regulatory applications for
Shingrix in the second half of 2016.
We also received a positive scientific
opinion from the European regulators for
our malaria vaccine, Mosquirix, for children
aged six weeks to 17 months. Mosquirix is
the first vaccine for malaria to reach this
milestone. Additionally, this was the first
regulatory review of our AS01 adjuvant
technology, which is also used in Shingrix. We have two novel candidate vaccines
For more about our malaria vaccine, in phase II clinical development against We reported further positive
see our Responsible business section respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) a common
pivotal phase III trial data
on page 38. cause of bronchiolitis and pneumonia
in infants that can lead to hospitalisation in adults over 70 for our
We continue to progress our paediatric
and an enhanced risk of severe asthma:
vaccine for measles, mumps and rubella one a paediatric RSV vaccine that uses most advanced candidate,
through an additional phase III trial which
a genetically engineered recombinant is required to achieve registration of the Shingrix, for the prevention
chimpanzee adenovirus – the same carrier
vaccine in the US.
used in our Ebola vaccine candidate and of shingles. We intend
Vaccines innovation the second a glycoprotein RSV vaccine
to file global regulatory
In November 2015, we profiled a number given to pregnant women that may provide
of promising earlier stage assets in our infants with protective maternally-derived applications for Shingrix
vaccines pipeline. Our pentavalent RSV-neutralising antibodies.
candidate vaccine for the prevention of in the second half of 2016
meningococcal meningitis, Men ABCWY,
which combines two existing GSK
meningococcal meningitis vaccines, is
in advanced phase II development, with
phase III studies planned for start in 2017.
1st
We have 15 candidate
90-97% efficacy of vaccines in development
Mosquirix is the first malaria
our most advanced late against diseases including
vaccine to receive a positive
stage candidate vaccine, shingles, meningitis, RSV,
regulatory review
Shingrix, against shingles Group B strep and COPD
in two phase III studies exacerbations30 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Vaccines
continued
We are exploring a maternal immunisation
approach with our candidate vaccine in
phase II development to prevent group B
streptococcus (GBS), a leading cause of
pneumonia, meningitis and sepsis that
affects about one in 2,500 births in the
US. In addition, we have a candidate
vaccine in a phase II clinical proof of
concept study for the prevention of
exacerbations in chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease (COPD).
We continue to work with our partners
to accelerate development of our Ebola
candidate vaccine to help prevent future
disease outbreaks. Our candidate vaccine
is being tested in phase II clinical trials
in five countries in West Africa. We are
discussing potential regulatory pathways
to file the candidate vaccine for approval
with the FDA and other agencies.
Investment and governance
We are highly selective in how we invest
and focus our resources in vaccines
discovery and development.
We prioritise our investment to meet the
needs of patients and address some of the
biggest remaining global health challenges.
Our core vaccine R&D investment in 2015
was £525 million, up 18.5% from 2014. Impressive trial results prepare ground
We have more than 2,000 scientists working
for new shingles vaccine
across our vaccine R&D organisation.
Oversight for the key decisions we make Our new candidate vaccine Shingrix Shingrix demonstrated its great potential
during the vaccines development process demonstrated long-lasting and effective in trials involving 37,000 people from
rests with the Vaccine Research and protection against the pain and all over the world. October 2015 pivotal
Development Board (VRDB) which reviews discomfort of shingles in pivotal phase III study results showed it was
the R&D project strategy and advises on phase III studies. 90% effective against shingles and 89%
scientific and technical matters, and the effective against PHN in people over 70.
Vaccine Investment Board (VIB), which Shingles sufferers develop a painful itchy
makes the final decision on whether to rash, which o(cid:2)en turns into blisters, on The findings echoed earlier pivotal
invest in a project, commercial opportunity one side of their body. Up to 30% also phase III study results showing 97%
and portfolio fit. develop postherpetic neuralgia (PHN), an efficacy against shingles and 91% for
intense and distressing pain that can last PHN among the over-50s. The findings
We continue to expand our early stage up to three months a(cid:2)er a shingles rash also showed that, not only was the
pipeline and strengthen our expertise appears. Other possible complications candidate vaccine effective for all ages,
with targeted investments. For example, include scarring, eyesight problems, but that its effectiveness remained
our acquisition of GlycoVaxyn in February secondary infection and nerve palsies. constant for four years a(cid:2)er it was
2015 with its innovative biological administered. This is a significant
conjugation platform technology supports Nine out of 10 people, that is all those improvement on the existing vaccine,
our efforts to develop new vaccines who have had chicken pox, are at risk from which is less effective for the very
for a range of bacterial diseases. shingles. However the disease particularly elderly and reduces in efficacy over time. affects adults over 50, with more than
50% of those over 85 likely to have the Following our successful trial results,
disease in their lifetime. Individuals with later in 2016 we intend to begin filing
compromised immune systems, such as applications for Shingrix for the
cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy prevention of shingles with regulators
or people with HIV, are also especially in North America, Japan and Europe.
susceptible. With Shingrix trials also ongoing for
people with compromised immune
systems, we hope to be able to file a
regulatory application for this group
of patients in 2018.GSK Annual Report 2015 31
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Vaccines research development cycle
Registration/ Identify Produce Pre-clinical Phase I Phase II Proof of Phase III File post marketing
antigens antigens testing concept surveillance
Research (including immunology)
Pre-clinical development
Clinical development (including post marketing surveillance)
Transfer process to manufacturing
1-10 years 2-3 years 2-4 years >1 year
Investing in our supply chain
Simplify
GSK has 17 vaccines manufacturing
Progress on simplifying the business sites strategically positioned around the
world. This broad and diversified footprint
During 2015, we made substantial progress
gives us greater manufacturing capacity,
in integrating the new Novartis business
efficiency and flexibility. In 2015, we
which acted as a catalyst to further simplify
continued to make significant investments
our Vaccines operating model, strengthen
in our manufacturing network in key areas
our manufacturing network, and reduce
including starting construction of a new
supply costs. These changes will help to
hepatitis A facility at Wavre, Belgium and
deliver the annual cost savings we set out
a major capital investment plan for our
in 2015 by 2017, and will help us deliver
Rosia, Italy site where our meningitis
our target operating margin of at least
vaccines are made.
30% by 2020. Incremental annual cost
savings in 2015, helped to increase the Committed to quality
pro-forma operating profit margin by Our vaccines are manufactured to the We have 17 vaccines
0.8% on a CER basis to 26.4%. highest quality standards, according
manufacturing sites
to current Good Manufacturing Practice
As part of the complex integration
(cGMP) regulations. Up to 70% of the around the world and
programme we completed all regulatory-
time it takes to produce a vaccine is
required divestments under the transaction distribute over 1.9 million
dedicated to quality control. In 2015, including the divestment of our meningitis
vaccines, Nimenrix and Mencevax. we had 49 regulatory inspections, all vaccines every day to
with satisfactory outcomes. In November
We have also begun a restructuring
2015, our Ste. Foy facility’s warning letter people across more than
programme to remove any duplication
from the US Food and Drug Administration
of infrastructure and roles. 150 countries
(FDA) concluded after the FDA found
that all remediation activities had been
completed satisfactorily.32 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Consumer
HealthcareGSK Annual Report 2015 33
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our Consumer Healthcare
business has a portfolio
of some of the world’s most
trusted and well loved brands.
Our brands are underpinned
by science-based innovation
and include Panadol, Voltaren,
Horlicks and Sensodyne and
have been developed to meet
the healthcare needs of
consumers worldwide.
In numbers
c.21,000
number of employeesa
£0.3bn
core R&D spend in 2015
No.1
specialist oral care company
(by retail sales)
190
servings of Horlicks per second in
India as a nutritional supplement
a Including GMS and dedicated support
functions staff.34 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Consumer Healthcare
Our Consumer Healthcare business Our brands are sold in more than
2015 performance
is world leading and represents the 150 countries around the world, with
summary Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture with around 40% of sales in emerging markets.
Novartis together with the GSK Consumer
Wellness
Healthcare listed businesses in India
In Wellness, our biggest category, we
£6.0bn and Nigeria, which are excluded from
are now an overall global leader and the
the Joint Venture.
number one company in 36 countries
The business is split almost equally by retail sales. We have leading global
Turnover
between over the counter (OTC) medicines positions in respiratory, cold and flu, nasal
and fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) decongestants, allergy, smoking cessation
+44%
brands dedicated to healthcare, across our and pain management, where we have
four categories of Wellness, Oral health, two of the top four brands – one in
Nutrition and Skin health. systemic (Panadol) and one in topical
Reported sales growth CER
pain relief (Voltaren).
+6% These categories are defined by specific
consumer healthcare requirements and have
complementary ranges of brands that allow
Pro-forma sales growth CER
us to evolve with our consumers’ needs.
£0.7bn
Core operating profit
Our strategy
in action
11.3%
~14%
Consumer Healthcare
operating margin in 2015 Innovation sales from
One of the world's leading product introductions
OTC companies (by retail within the last three
sales) and specialist years on a rolling basis
oral care companyGSK Annual Report 2015 35
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Oral health Power and Core brands
We are a top three company in toothpaste Our power brands selected from Our power brands selected
and the number one in specialist oral our newly integrated portfolio have
from our newly integrated
health, with leading positions in sensitivity, been identified as Voltaren, Panadol,
acid erosion, denture care and gum Sensodyne, Theraflu, Otrivin, portfolio have been identified
health. Sensodyne is number one ‘as Parodontax and Poligrip: each of
recommended by dentists’ worldwide which are category leaders with as Voltaren, Panadol,
for sensitivity. long track records and a higher
Sensodyne, Theraflu,
than average gross margin.
Skin health
Otrivin, Parodontax and
We are in the top three globally in The core brands, including Tums,
medicated skin health, focusing on Flonase, Horlicks and Eno, have Poligrip: each of which are
treating conditions that affect millions many similarities to our power brands
category leaders with long
of people worldwide, such as cold sores but are local or regional opportunities,
and dry and sensitive skin. Our Abreva rather than global. track records and a higher
and Zovirax brands hold leading positions
We are prioritising our investment
in some of the world’s largest markets. than average gross margin
in R&D, innovation, marketing and
Nutrition commercial execution behind the
Our nutrition business has a particular seven power and 12 core brands.
focus on the Indian subcontinent,
where Horlicks is served as a nutritional
supplement at a rate of 190 times per
second, mainly to children. Horlicks is
now ranked the sixth most trusted brand
in India across all brands and indications.
60%
Focused brand strategy and
1/3
innovation generating growth
Horlicks market share in India
Sensodyne
– double digit growth Horlicks delivered all time share
of R&D organisation now
in all three regions high and is now the most trusted
based in emerging markets
hot beverage brand in India36 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Consumer Healthcare
continued
Grow Deliver
We have identified a dozen
markets where we will 2015 performance summary We have a strong innovation pipeline
Consumer Healthcare sales grew across all of our categories and we
prioritise investment in 44% (+6% pro-forma) to £6,028 million. will continue to prioritise our investment
advertising and promotion, Of note was Sensodyne, which grew in R&D.
double-digits across all regions and is
capital expenditure, and close to generating sales of £1 billion Core R&D investment in Consumer
a year. We also had a very successful Healthcare in 2015 was £0.3 billion
place top talent. These launch of Flonase Allergy Relief, following (2014 – £159 million).
markets will contribute to our strategy to switch the product from Through the integration process,
prescription only to OTC. we are investing further in our R&D
two thirds of our growth
Reported growth benefited from sales capabilities, integrating our marketing,
of the newly acquired products, particularly scientific, regulatory, technical and medical
Voltaren, Otrivin and Theraflu, following teams in co-located hubs; in the UK,
the formation of the joint venture with the US, Switzerland, India, China and
Novartis. Pro-forma growth of 6% was Singapore. Going forward a third of
predominantly driven by growth in the our R&D organisation will be based
Oral health and Wellness categories. in emerging markets.
In 2015, 14% of Consumer Healthcare We are also building new sensory and
sales were generated from innovation packaging lab capabilities to ensure that
launched within the last three years with we capitalise on trends in developments
more than 30 new-to-market product such as flavour or application techniques
launches throughout the year. which can present growth opportunities.
For example, we developed a formulation
Our key innovation drivers in the year of Horlicks that consumers can mix in cold
included Flonase in the US, and water, as hot water is not readily available
Sensodyne Complete in Japan which for many people in the Indian subcontinent.
helped the Sensodyne brand to become A further example is Fenbid Chewable
the leading toothpaste in the country which we launched in China in 2015
in 2015. as a pain relief product that does not
need water. Other key launches included:
We also continue to invest in our Shopper
• Sensodyne Repair and
Science Lab. This is a state-of-the-art
Protect Whitening facility that allows us to research our
• Sensodyne Complete innovative products in both simulated
digital and real life environments with
• Fenbid Chewable 200mg
our retail partners, to test packaging,
• Physiogel Calming Relief range claims and our shopper materials.
• Theraflu Warming Syrup
Read more in the Group financial
review on pages 50 to 72.GSK Annual Report 2015 37
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Simplify
Progress on simplifying
the business
We are using the integration process
to simplify the organisation, to build a
leaner business with a renewed focus on
delivering performance, increasing agility
and developing a high performance culture.
With over 80% of personnel exits in the
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
completed and 54 sites now consolidated,
we are making good progress.
These changes will help to deliver the
annual cost savings expected from
integration, and enables us to deliver our
target operating margin of at least 20%
by 2020 CER. Incremental annual cost
savings in 2015 helped to increase the
pro-forma operating profit margin by
1.8% on a CER basis to 11.3%.
Careful planning enabled us to maintain
a stable supply chain during the Novartis
integration, so there were no disruptions
in supply. At the same time we achieved
an 8.4% net reduction of pack variants
within our product portfolio. In 2015, we
The 2015 US debut of Flonase Allergy Relief
had 45 regulatory inspections, all with
satisfactory outcomes. was the year's top over-the-counter (OTC) launch
Our average service levels rose to 93%
The launch of Flonase Allergy Relief It was also the leading allergy brand
in 2015, from 87% in 2014, due to supply
underlined our effective dual capabilities ‘recommended by’ both doctors and
chain improvement programme initiatives,
in both pharmaceuticals and fast allergists and the number one
such as investments at our manufacturing
moving consumer goods (FMCG). ‘recommended by pharmacists’
sites, enhancements in systems and
nasal allergy brand.
capacity, and reductions in single-sourced The nasal spray – which was formerly
raw materials. available only on prescription – contains This strong performance was aided
the number one prescribed ingredient by Flonase’s expert digital marketing
for providing temporary relief of hay campaign, which achieved striking
Careful planning enabled us fever and other upper respiratory allergies. results across the leading social
media channels.
to maintain a stable supply Reflecting our heritage in respiratory
medicines, it is the first OTC spray to
chain during the Novartis relieve both nasal and ocular symptoms 1 1%
and, whereas most allergy treatments
integration, so there were
target just one histamine, it inhibits
no disruptions in supply six key substances.
Within a few months
Our partnership with retailers enabled us of the US launch,
to secure a strong presence in store with
Flonase captured
23 miles of shelf space and almost one
more than 11% of
million point-of-sale devices. An integrated
the adult allergy
consumer marketing campaign worked
product market
simultaneously to engage shoppers.
Within just a few months of launch
Flonase captured more than 11% of the
adult allergy product market and was
the third leading brand in the category.38 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
38 GSK Annual Report 2015
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
38 GSK Annual Report 2015
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Responsible
businessGSK Annual Report 2015 39
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Being a responsible business
is fundamental to GSK and
to our strategic priorities.
For us, how we do business
is as important as the
financial results we deliver.
In numbers
11 million
people reached through our training
of 40,000 frontline health workers in
least developed countries since 2009
1.3 million
children reached with life-saving
immunisation, treatments and
other interventions, through our
ground-breaking partnership with
Save the Children
100%
markets operating our new
commercial model
c.38,000
employees and family members
in 52 countries have access to
preventive healthcare through our
Partnership for Prevention programme
25%
reduction in our operational waste
(hazardous and non-hazardous)
over the last five years40 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Responsible business
Our approach
Creating value for society Our responsible business priorities
2015 highlights
Our success benefits wider society. GSK’s responsible business priorities sit
By developing innovative healthcare within the context of the macro-economic
products we directly benefit patients and and social trends that affect all companies
£22m consumers. Our flexible pricing strategy, and wider society. These trends present
which allows prices to reflect countries’ both opportunities and challenges for
ability to pay, and global footprint enables global healthcare companies like GSK
Partnership with Comic Relief greater access to our medicines and (see page 8).
to fight malaria products. By delivering profitable and
We report our progress across four areas:
sustainable business performance,
Health for all, Our behaviour, Our people,
10 we generate value and returns for our
and Our planet. We identified our priorities
shareholders and can reinvest in the
in these areas by understanding the issues
business. Over and above this, wider
that are most important to our business
Extended our price freeze society benefits as healthy people are
commitment to 10 years for and to our stakeholders.
essential to building strong, sustainable
countries ‘graduating’ from
communities. Our longer-term commitments across
Gavi support
the four areas reflect global health needs
We make significant direct and indirect
and align with GSK’s strategic priorities
118 economic contributions to the countries
and our values. In many areas they also
and communities where we operate
support the Global Goals for Sustainable
through tax, our employment of 101,255
Development. We detail our progress
Research proposals submitted people and charitable support. Further
against these commitments in our to access data from GSK trials detail about our approach to tax is on page
responsible business supplement,
53, and we also publish full details about
available at www.gsk.com/responsibility.
our position on tax at www.gsk.com.
In 2015, our assessment showed
Read more about that two commitments are complete,
responsible business 15 commitments are progressing well,
at www.gsk.com five are on track, and one has more
work to do, as shown in the table below.
Progress against our responsible business commitments
Summary commitment Progress Summary commitment Progress
Health for all Our behaviour
Innovation for unmet medical needs Ethical conduct
Better access to medicines and vaccines Promoting values in sales and marketing
Building products to better meet needs Transparency of clinical research
Reducing child mortality Rigorous patient and consumer safety
Strengthening healthcare infrastructure Minimising animal testing
Eliminating and controlling NTDs Promoting human rights
Fighting malaria Ensuring ethical interactions
Eradicating polio Working with third parties
Access to antiretroviral treatment for HIV
Our people Our planet
Creating inspiring and healthy workplaces Carbon
Promoting inclusion and diversity Water
Community volunteering to create change Waste
Work needed On track Progressing well CompletedGSK Annual Report 2015 41
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Health for all
Increasing access to healthcare
Our approach GSK developed RTS,S, which we
We aim to extend the benefits of our will supply at a not-for-profit price, The WHO has recommended
products to more people, no matter where in partnership with the PATH Malaria
that our malaria candidate
they live or their ability to pay. We target Vaccine Initiative and with funding
areas of unmet medical need from diseases from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. vaccine, RTS,S, should
of the developing world to antibiotics,
by stimulating open innovation and In addition to vaccines and medicines, be introduced through
a comprehensive approach to tackle
collaborating. We are tackling barriers
malaria must include wider preventative a pilot programme
to affordability and accessibility and
measures. Since 2001, we have supported
working to strengthen healthcare systems.
the Africa Malaria Partnership to promote
In this way we seek to play our part in
the use of existing interventions, such
tackling global health challenges.
as bed nets, indoor residual spraying,
Innovation and anti-malarial treatments. In January
We are committed to innovation for 2016, we launched a new £22 million
diseases that disproportionately affect the partnership with Comic Relief, a
world’s poorest people, such as malaria, UK-based charity, to fight malaria
and where society’s need is greatest, such in five endemic countries.
as antibiotics, even though they may not
As well as making new discoveries,
offer the same potential commercial return.
we adapt existing products to tackle
Our open innovation model is core to this
different health challenges. In October
commitment.
2015, we submitted a regulatory
After 30 years of research, we have application to the European Medicines
reached two significant milestones in our Agency for an antiseptic gel to prevent
journey to develop a vaccine to protect umbilical cord infections in newborns
young children from malaria. In July 2015, that we had reformulated from the
the European Medicines Agency adopted chlorhexidine solution in our Corsodyl
a positive scientific opinion for our malaria mouthwash. (See case study below.)
candidate vaccine Mosquirix, or RTS,S,
Increasing antibiotic resistance is
in children aged six weeks to 17 months.
an emerging and urgent public health
Additionally, the World Health Organisation crisis. We have our own research unit
(WHO) has recommended that RTS,S focused on developing the next
should be introduced through a pilot generation of antibiotics and an active
roll-out. The WHO is now actively working pipeline of potential new medicines
with financing bodies, and the malaria in development.
vaccine clinical trials partnership (including
PATH and GSK) to generate support for
the pilots, and to finalise the design of the
pilot implementation programme.
Helping more
newborns survive
Three million newborn babies die each
year from infection, o(cid:2)en when the
newly-cut umbilical cord acts as an
entry point for bacteria. This issue is
exacerbated in developing countries,
where many births take place at home.
We have been working to reformulate
the antiseptic chlorhexidine solution used
in our Corsodyl mouthwash into a gel to
prevent umbilical cord infections, using
insights and on-the-ground knowledge
from Save the Children.
If the European Medicines Agency
approves our 2015 regulatory application,
we will offer the gel at a not-for-profit price
and share our knowledge with others so
that it can be manufactured locally.
nerdlihC
eht
evaS
,yelworC
niloC
:otohP
Our most advanced asset – a topoisomerase
inhibitor, gepotidacin (GSK2140944) –
has been developed in collaboration
with the US government’s Biomedical
Advanced Research Development
Authority (BARDA). This asset has a novel
mechanism of action and the potential to
address multiple indications, and is now
moving towards phase III studies, following
positive phase II results.42 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Health for all
continued
Since 2009, our open innovation model
Our giving in 2015
Since 2010, we have capped has advanced research in such diseases
as malaria and tuberculosis and in
the prices of our patented 2%
neglected tropical diseases (NTDs), which 5%
medicines and vaccines affect over one billion people. We have
27%
screened more than two million of our
in the least developed compounds to help combat these deadly
infectious diseases and, in 2015, published
countries (LDCs) at 25%
data on high-quality hits against NTDs,
of developed world prices, as initiating new research projects within and
66%
outside GSK.
long as our manufacturing
We invite external researchers to utilise
costs are covered
our facilities, resources and expertise Cash £56.6m
at our open lab in Tres Cantos, Spain. Product and in-kind £136.9m
The lab’s recent progress in NTD research Time (PULSE) £3.7m
has included developing the first preclinical
Management £11.1m
candidate to treat visceral leishmaniasis
and a promising pre-candidate drug to
combat Chagas disease.
Increasing local access and supply is an
Open innovation is also central to our Africa important part of our commitment to Africa,
non-communicable diseases (NCDs) open and in 2015 we continued to evaluate
lab, launched in 2014. The lab will work in options for manufacturing in Nigeria.
partnership with major funders, academic
In 2015, we started work on a £100 million
groups and governments to conduct
pharmaceutical factory in India, and signed
research into NCDs.
an innovative manufacturing partnership
Extending affordability and availability with China’s Desano Pharmaceuticals to
Six billion people live in emerging markets, allow us to provide dolutegravir, our HIV
300 million of whom will use healthcare treatment, at a competitive price to China
for the first time by 2020. Our flexible and other countries.
pricing strategy seeks to meet their
Affordability can also hinder access in
healthcare needs, by providing more
developed countries. We broaden access
products at lower prices. Since 2010,
to our products in these markets by finding
we have capped the prices of our patented
flexible ways to price our medicines, while
medicines and vaccines in the least
retaining returns for our investment in
developed countries (LDCs) at 25%
innovation.
of developed world prices, as long as
our manufacturing costs are covered. For example, in the US all of our six most
We also have a tiered pricing approach, recently launched new medicines were
where poorer countries pay less. priced at parity or at a discount to the
medicines we aim to supersede. In 2015, we
We offer our lowest vaccine prices to
reached agreement with the UK Government
organisations such as Gavi, the Vaccine
to make Britain the first country with a
Alliance, which supports countries with
nationwide vaccination programme against
a low gross national income. In 2015, we
meningitis B. The agreement offers fair value
froze our prices for countries that graduate
for the National Health Service, while
from Gavi support so they can continue
offering us a sustainable return.
to buy our vaccines at discounted prices
for a further decade. In the US, we offer various types of patient
assistance to help ensure appropriate
In middle-income countries, where
access to our medicines. GSK has
many still live in poverty, our flexible
programmes for eligible patients who do
pricing approach enables more people
not have prescription drug coverage, those
to access our products. In the Philippines,
with a Medicare Part D Prescription Drug
GSK has introduced a card and coupon
Plan and we now offer specialty product
patient programme, offering discounts of
assistance for eligible insured patients.
between 10-60% for selected products.
As a result of new coverage options
In 2015, more than 58,000 patients
available following the Affordable Care
accessed products, including antibiotics
Act, more patients are insured and fewer
Augmentin and Zinnat, as well as our
are requiring our Patient Assistance
Seretide inhaler, through the programme.
Programmes (PAP). However, as part of
Building local capabilities improves access our commitment to access, we continue
in developing countries by providing to provide services to help patients
patients and consumers with locally relevant understand alternative coverage options.
products while enhancing domestic
manufacturing capacity and capability.GSK Annual Report 2015 43
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Strengthening healthcare systems
In the world’s least developed countries
(LDCs), a lack of trained healthcare
workers prevents people from accessing
life-saving medicines and vaccines.
In the LDCs where we operate, we
reinvest 20% of our LDC profits from
the sale of pharmaceutical and consumer
healthcare products to train and educate
community health workers.
Since 2009, we have reinvested
£21 million of our LDC profits in 35
countries, training 40,000 frontline
health workers. These doctors,
midwives, nurses and volunteers have
reached 11 million people. In 2015, we
expanded health worker training beyond
LDCs to other countries in sub-Saharan
Africa. In support of the UN One Million
Community Health Workers Campaign
we are funding a pilot to train 1,800
health workers in Ghana.
Apart from training healthcare workers,
we strengthen healthcare systems more
broadly by, for example, improving health
facilities, equipping training centres and
encouraging governments to improve Partnership with Save the Children Complementing the partnership, we
policies and increase investments. Through a ground-breaking, five-year support a broad range of work to reduce
partnership with Save the Children we are childhood mortality. Many of our 20%
Our targeted product and financial
helping to save one million children’s lives reinvestment programmes focus on
donations help provide healthcare
in some of the world’s poorest countries. reducing child and maternal mortality in
for vulnerable communities. In 2015,
The partnership involves combining rural communities. For instance, in Nepal, our global community investment
our capabilities in R&D, supply chain, we work with CARE International and the
totalled £208.3 million, compared
procurement and vaccines with the government to improve maternal, neonatal
with £201.5 million in 2014.
charity’s local expertise. In the Democratic and reproductive health by improving
Republic of Congo, for example, the the skills of frontline health workers,
partnership has created a model of providing health equipment, and enabling
essential services for neonatal, maternal communities to feedback on health centre
and child health that can be replicated performance. Our support has enabled
in other developing countries. more than 6,000 health workers in Nepal
to be trained, reaching more than one
In 2015 we estimate we have reached
million people.
over 1.3 million children; fully immunising
23,500, treating 125,000 for diarrhoea,
malaria or pneumonia, and screening
more than one million for malnutrition.
Our strategy
in action
40,000
In 2015, we published data
on 600 high-quality hits
The European Medicines against NTDs, initiating new
Frontline health workers
Agency adopted a positive research projects within
trained in least developed
scientific opinion for our malaria and outside GSK
countries since 2009
candidate vaccine, Mosquirix,
in children aged six weeks
to 17 months
nerdlihC
eht
evaS/bbeW
nitraM
:otohP44 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our behaviour
Putting the needs of patients and consumers first
Our approach Sales and marketing practices Transparency in clinical trial data
We expect all employees to act in line We have significantly changed the way we We have pioneered ways to share
with our values, of transparency, respect sell and market our medicines and vaccines information and data about our clinical
for people, integrity and to put patients to further ensure patients’ interests come trials. By providing greater access to trial
and consumers first. first and to better serve our customers. data, we allow others to conduct further
We believe these changes will provide research and maximise the contribution
These values inform how we approach
long term commercial advantage. made by the participants in our studies.
patient and consumer safety throughout
product development and use; how we In January 2015, we completed the roll Since 2004, we have had an online
sell and market our medicines; how we out of changes to the way sales teams are clinical study register where we make
train our employees and address compensated. Our pharmaceutical medical available information on our trials, including
misconduct, and the expectations we representatives no longer have individual summaries of results. We were the first
have of third parties. sales targets, but instead, are compensated pharmaceutical company to make clinical
based on their technical skills, scientific study reports – the basis of regulatory
Patient and consumer safety
knowledge, quality of service they deliver to submissions, which include detailed
Patient safety is our priority in the
HCPs, and broader business performance. information on trials – publicly available.
development, testing, manufacture and
In the US, the approach has generated
use of our products. All medicines have We were also the first company to sign up
strong customer feedback – in a July 2015
potential risks as well as benefits. We have to AllTrials, which campaigns for every trial
survey of 3,599 US healthcare professionals,
extensive controls to detect, evaluate and to be registered and the results reported.
GSK ranked first in both trust and customer
communicate benefits and risks and any
value for the second time in a row. We have set up a system for researchers
potential safety concerns about our
to request access to the detailed,
products. We remain committed to ongoing
anonymised, patient-level data that
dialogue with the scientific community
We take the safety of those who take sit behind clinical trial results –
and peer-to-peer medical education, but
part in our clinical trials extremely seriously. www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com.
we are modernising the way we engage
Our trials are conducted in line with the This lists over 1,700 of our global clinical
with HCPs. As of January 2016, we no
International Conference on Harmonisation’s trials conducted since the formation of
longer pay external HCPs to speak to
Good Clinical Practice guidelines. An GSK and includes clinical trials from
other prescribers about our medicines. We
independent ethics committee reviews 12 other companies. The Wellcome Trust
continue to pay HCPs for non-promotional
trial protocols before studies start and has taken over management of the panel
advisory services and clinical research.
can prevent them from going ahead. which considers applications for access
These payments are governed by rigorous
to the data, which was initially made up of
Our global risk register helps research controls and are based on fair market value.
independent experts appointed by GSK.
teams keep track of emerging risks to
We have also changed how we support This is an important step towards our vision
quality and safety standards. Risks
medical education, by no longer choosing of an independent data-sharing system of
are often identified through the regular
which healthcare professionals are studies from across industry and academia.
self-audits of our own trials or those
sponsored to attend scientific conferences. By the end of 2015, 118 research
conducted by third parties on our behalf.
Instead, we will provide funding to proposals had been submitted to access
We performed 381 audits of trials in 2015.
independent professional bodies who data from GSK trials. We have already
Core to our focus on safety are the strict will allocate funding to individuals. given 62 research teams access to
quality and safety standards upheld at all detailed trial data.
We are using multiple channels, including
our manufacturing sites and throughout
digital and real-time applications, to provide Our Code of Conduct
the product life cycle – from the sourcing
information in the way, and at the time, HCPs Our Code of Conduct and an online
of raw materials to the manufacturing and
want it. In 2015, we used effective digital resource centre guide our people in
transportation of finished products.
communications to support our interactions applying our values in everyday activities.
We strive to minimise the risk of with HCPs when we launched two new HIV In 2015, 99.9% of employees completed
counterfeit medicines. In 2015, we medicines, Tivicay and Triumeq. mandatory annual training on our Code.
extended our end-to-end supply chain The online course is available in 23
Healthcare professionals and scientists
serialisation programme, Fingerprint, languages and includes training on our within GSK, including our Global Medical
across 86 packaging lines in more than values, ethical leadership, anti-bribery
Experts, play an important role in informing
18 manufacturing sites. The programme and corruption, and reporting issues
their peers about our medicines. They
applies unique serial ‘fingerprints’ or concerns. In 2015 it was extended
are responsible for providing the right
on products and logs them into a to more than 30,600 complementary
information to support the safe and
government-managed database, workers. Employees who do not complete
effective use of our medicines.
which they can be verified against the course may face disciplinary action.
at any point in the supply chain.GSK Annual Report 2015 45
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Of the total disciplined, 297 received
Employees disciplined in 2015:
We have zero tolerance for bribery or verbal warnings, 2,890 employees received
breakdown of types of policy violations
corruption. However, we recognise that a documented warning (3,131 in 2014)
we are exposed to bribery and corruption and 387 (373 in 2014) were dismissed 1%
risk given our global footprint, particularly or agreed to leave the company voluntarily. 1 2% % 7%
in markets where government structures The highest number of dismissals were 4%
and the rule of law are less developed related to travel and expense policy 4%
and healthcare systems less mature. violations which accounted for 130 5% 48%
dismissals, followed by 31 dismissals
Our anti-bribery and corruption programme 7%
related to Code of Conduct violations
includes risk assessments, standards
and 22 for attendance/payroll violations. 10%
and practical guidance designed to
prevent non-compliance. During 2015, Working with third parties 11%
all employees and complimentary workers We expect all suppliers and third parties
completed basic level training, while to comply with our standards on ethics, Attendance/payroll Local work
54,000 employees in high-risk roles labour rights, health and safety, and the Good manufacturing regulation violations
completed additional advanced training. environment. In 2015, we introduced a practices/good Unauthorised
distribution practices absenteeism
We are now rolling out a framework to comprehensive programme to strengthen
engage and train third parties, based on our management of such risks in the Travel and expenses EHS/safety
their risk profile. supply chain. Marketing and Falsification of
promotional activities documents
Our approach is designed to prevent Following a review, 1,300 suppliers Code of conduct Training completion
breaches, but if things do go wrong, we act have been identified as high risk and Other
promptly and decisively. Our centralised are being assessed by external risk
review committee oversees investigations assessment experts. They will be required
into any allegations of bribery and corruption, to complete an extensive questionnaire We do not engage in artificial tax
and ensures they are prioritised consistently and demonstrate policies and management arrangements – those without business
across the company. systems for responsible business issues. or commercial substance. At the same
Additional due diligence may then follow. time we have a responsibility to our
Reporting and investigating
shareholders to be financially efficient
misconduct In 2015, we assessed around 200
and deliver a sustainable tax rate.
We centrally track misconduct allegations, distributors on four key risks: anti-bribery
concerns and security incidents received and corruption, labour rights, promotional Further details on our approach to tax
through our Speak Up channels, monitoring, activities and information protection. and our tax disclosures can be found
and other routes. In 2015 we received over We also assessed more than 1,300 in the Group financial review on page 53
5,780 such reports or allegations. The suppliers that support our manufacturing, in this report and in our responsible
majority of these, 3,257 (3,203 in 2014), in line with our quality management system, business supplement.
were through our Speak Up channels and audited 85 on their environmental,
Approach to human rights
which offer people within and outside GSK health and safety management systems.
GSK is a signatory to the UN Global
the opportunity to ask questions and voice
Our approach to tax Compact, which sets out key principles
concerns anonymously or confidentially
We understand our responsibility to pay for business on human rights. We are
through an independent third party by
an appropriate amount of tax. We have committed to upholding the Universal
phone or on-line.
robust internal policies, processes, training Declaration of Human Rights and the
All concerns raised are reviewed and over and compliance programmes to ensure core labour standards set out by the
2,670 formal investigations were initiated we have alignment across our business International Labour Organization.
in response to these allegations. The five and meet our tax obligations.
Our human rights steering group provides
most frequent categories of allegation were
We pay a significant amount of tax in the direction and oversight to help ensure we
employee performance/relations, product
UK, where most of our global corporate meet our commitments on human rights
promotion, interactions with HCPs, fraud
functions and significant manufacturing as set out in our Human Rights Statement,
and Anti-Bribery and Corruption. and R&D facilities are located, and in other available on our website.
Disciplinary action countries around the world where we have
In 2012 we identified seven priority
Disciplinary action is taken when a substantial business and employment
areas for human rights for GSK: access
employees fail to act in line with our presence.
to health care, air quality impact relating
policies. In 2015, 3,574 employees were
Over the last 15 years we have paid to propellants, clinical trial standards,
disciplined for policy violations (3,947
£27.3 billion in corporation tax globally. employment practices, patient safety,
in 2014). The types of policy violations
In the UK, we have paid £2.7 billion since product counterfeiting and use of third-
(see chart) in 2015 remained broadly the
2001, nearly 10% of the global total. In party suppliers.
same as in 2014. Attendance and payroll
2015, UK net sales were 4.2% of global
remains the biggest type of violation at
net sales.
48% of the total (43% in 2014), followed
by good manufacturing practices at
11% (10% in 2014). Travel and expenses
violations increased to 10% (3% in 2014),
due to increased frequency of monitoring.46 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our people
GSK’s people are essential to our success
Our approach Following a steady reduction over 10 years,
We need a talented, motivated and resilient In 2015, we welcomed our reportable injury and illness rate
workforce if we are to deliver against increased slightly due to a large number
12,000 Novartis employees
our strategy and tackle global health of semicircular lipoatrophy cases in Brazil.
challenges effectively. To achieve this, to GSK. Clear, regular This is a treatable condition associated
we aim to create a working environment with localised pressure from office
where employees feel valued, respected, communication was crucial furniture, and we took steps to support
empowered and inspired. In 2015, as our those affected and prevent recurrence.
when introducing our new
business experienced significant change,
As a global business operating in more
it was particularly important for us to listen colleagues to our values
than 150 markets, serious incidents do
to and support our people.
and expectations occur. In August 2015, an employee
Performance and engagement tragically died in a boiler explosion at
Our global performance system is our site in Rixensart, Belgium. We are
underpinned by a set of clear expectations supporting the Belgian authorities with
that emphasise not just results, but also We put particular emphasis on leadership their investigations and checking every
how they are achieved in line with our development. In 2015, more than 3,300 boiler across GSK. In October, a sales
values. line leaders completed programmes to employee in India, who was travelling on
help them become managers. We also business, sadly died after their motorcycle
We provide regular updates on our
launched the Enterprise Talent initiative, collided with another vehicle.
mission, strategy and progress through
which develops leaders with the potential
live broadcasts and messages from our Our Energy & Resilience programmes
and aspiration to become executives.
CEO and Corporate Executive Team. continued to help employees balance Since 2010, we have trained more than
Listening is also critical: in 2015 over personal and professional responsibilities.
1,000 employees as coaches to help
76,000 employees, 78% of our people, 70% of those who took part in our
others fulfil their leadership potential.
took part in our employee survey providing employee survey agreed that they have
valuable feedback. This was up from Health and wellbeing sufficient energy to invest in the things
72% in the last survey in 2012. We take a progressive approach to that matter most at work and in life.
employee health, and protecting our
Supporting our people through Providing preventive healthcare
workforce is a business priority. In 2015
restructuring To complement the employee healthcare
we refreshed and simplified our health and
In 2015 we welcomed 12,000 Novartis benefits in our established markets,
safety standards, and reviewed our global
employees to GSK. Clear, regular our Partnership for Prevention (P4P)
health and well being strategy, setting out
communication was crucial when programme aims to provide all our
our plan that every GSK employee has
introducing our new colleagues to employees and their families with
access to a consistent and comprehensive
our values, expectations, performance unprecedented access to preventive
health service.
system and local employee practices and healthcare services at little or no cost.
programmes. With the major reshaping We continue to be recognised as a leader Implementation is being prioritised in
of our global pharmaceuticals business in health and wellbeing, and in May 2015 regions where access to preventive
occurring at the same time, we placed GSK won the Multinational Healthy services is unavailable or limited,
an equal focus on supporting employees Workplace Award from the Global Centre particularly in developing markets.
leaving the company. We consult for Healthy Workplaces.
The services, including immunisations
employees and their representatives on
Road safety is a significant risk for our and cancer screenings, are recommended
business changes that might affect them.
employees and we launched a driver safety by the World Health Organization and are
Talent and leadership programme in India that we plan to roll out now available to over 38,000 employees
The number of graduates and more widely in our emerging markets. and family members in 52 countries.
postgraduates joining our programmes This places us halfway towards our target
is increasing. In 2015, we recruited to implement P4P globally by 2018.
470 graduates and postgraduates onto
our Future Leaders and Esprit programmes
globally, exceeding our target of 450.
We also welcomed 74 apprentices in
the UK, 34% of which are women, across Volunteering to
a number of disciplines and locations.
We are looking to expand our create change
apprenticeship programme into
other geographies in 2016. Through our PULSE Volunteer
Partnership, our employees use
their professional skills to create
sustainable change for our non-profit
partners and the communities
they serve.
Since its launch in 2009, PULSE has
enabled 560 employees to work with
103 non-profit partners in 62 countries,
providing nearly £19 million worth of
skilled services.GSK Annual Report 2015 47
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Diversity and inclusion
We value diversity. The diverse knowledge,
perspectives, experiences and working
styles of our global workforce strengthens
our business and helps us meet the needs
of our patients and consumers.
We aim to improve gender balance at
all levels. As at 31 December 2015, women
represented 52% of recruits to our Future
Leaders programme, 42% of management,
17% of our Corporate Executive Team and
29% of our Board. In 2015, 118 more
female managers began Our Accelerating
Difference programme for high performing
women leaders.
We strive to make GSK more accessible
to people with disabilities. In December
2015 we partnered with the UK
Government’s Disability Confident
campaign to raise disability awareness
across our business, remove barriers,
increase understanding and ensure that
those with disabilities have the right
opportunities.
Inspiring the next generation of scientists
We are a global organisation serving
diverse markets. Six nationalities are
By 2020, the UK alone will need one “When I was young I was told by one
represented on our Corporate Executive
million new scientists and engineers of my teachers to study drama, but I
Team and Board, and our employees in
to solve future challenges, including always enjoyed sciences and maths and
emerging markets, Asia Pacific and Japan
some of the biggest health challenges ended up completing a PhD in virology
represent 43% of our workforce.
of tomorrow. As a research led and immunology, part-time, whilst at GSK,”
We aim to attract and develop local talent healthcare company, GSK is playing she said.
by partnering with universities and offering a leading role in inspiring young
In 2016, we aim to build on our
business opportunities. This is a particular people to get into science, technology,
experience in the UK by creating global
focus of our Africa strategy, while our new engineering and maths (STEM) as
STEM education programmes to give our
regional headquarters in Singapore is well as providing a range of career
employees the tools they need to inspire
helping to attract and develop local people opportunities.
and foster the next generation of
in emerging markets. In 2015, we recruited
Our Science Education and Early scientists and engineers worldwide.
444 people from 53 countries for our
Talent team, along with our 362 STEM
Future Leaders graduate programme. GSK offers a range of career opportunities
ambassadors across the UK, engage young
in the STEM areas; ranging from summer
people by demonstrating real-world
internships, to apprenticeships, graduate
science and engineering in schools, and
Women in management positions (%) and postgraduate programmes. Our
manage our graduate and apprenticeship
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 programmes. apprenticeship programme offers school
and college leavers the opportunity to join
SVP/VP 26 27 28 29 29
Rhiannon Lowe heads up a team of 150 the company in a variety of roles from
Director 38 39 40 40 40
ambassadors, all volunteer GSK employees finance and IT to laboratory science and
Manager 42 43 44 45 45 from our site in Ware, Hertfordshire. She engineering. Apprentices learn on-the-job
Total 39 40 41 42 42 has been part of the programme since it and become valued members of the team
began in 1999 alongside her job as an as they progress, working towards
Employees by gender (number) investigator in investigative preclinical nationally recognised qualifications
Male Female Total toxicology, where she focuses on diseases and ultimately transition into a
Board 10 4 14 of the developing world and gene therapy. permanent role.
Managementa 9,378 6,799 16,177 She and her team put their expertise into The scheme has grown steadily in the UK,
Total 57,715 43,540 101,255 practice to inspire people of all ages. They and our ambition is to continually expand
go into schools to demonstrate scientific the programme into new geographies,
% Total 57 43
experiments and host visits to GSK labs helping nurture this new generation
a Management: senior managers as defined in where students are given an opportunity of talent, and adding to the diversity
the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report to get involved in science that connects of our business.
and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013, directly to our work and the real world.
which includes persons responsible for
planning, directing or controlling the activities Rhiannon encourages girls, in particular,
of the company, or a strategically significant to pursue these subjects from a young age
part of the company, other than the Board,
as women represent only 14% of all STEM
including directors of undertakings included
in the consolidated accounts. professionals in the UK.48 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our planet
Reducing our environmental impacts
Our approach
Carbon emissions
Major environmental challenges are closely
linked to global health concerns. Climate
Tonnes COea 2010 2013 2014 2015b
change and deforestation, for example, are 2
exacerbating inequalities of health. As a Scope 1 emissions 1,011,192 1,040,928 851,113 884,772
global healthcare company we can help Scope 2 emissions 962,327 788,149 744,973 765,379
tackle both the effects of environmental Scope 3 emissions 11,712,125 12,394,789 12,533,559 12,400,202
change – and the causes. We aim to have
a carbon neutral value chain by 2050, with Intensity ratios 2010 2013 2014 2015
ambitious interim goals to reduce carbon, Scope 1 and 2 emissions/ 69.5 69.0 69.4 69.0
water and waste. In the past five years, sales revenue (tonnes
we have made significant progress. CO2e/£m)
Carbon Scope 1 and 2/FTE 20.5 18.4 16.3 16.0
We aim to reduce our carbon footprint (tonnes CO 2e/FTE)
across the value chain by 25% by 2020,
from the 2010 baseline, on the way to our a Carbon emissions are calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol:
2050 goal of a carbon neutral value chain. A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition).
To pursue these objectives we are reducing b Data includes former Novartis sites' emissions and headcount.
our operational emissions (scope 1 and 2)
and engaging with suppliers, patients and
consumers to cut the emissions linked to In reducing emissions from raw materials, Water
sourcing raw materials for our ingredients engaging with suppliers is crucial. Our By 2020 we aim to reduce GSK’s water
and to using our products (scope 3). approach, recognised at the 2015 Ethical impact across the value chain by 20%,
Corporation Responsible Business from its 2010 level. We met the 2015
In 2015, the volume of medicines,
Awards, is founded on data collection, milestone for our own operations a year
consumer health products and vaccines
collaboration and recognition. The Ecodesk early and, during 2015 itself, reduced this
we sent out from our factories was 40%
online platform gathers data on carbon, by a further 5%. We have achieved such
higher than 2010. At the same time, our
water and waste from around 180 suppliers reductions by investing in water-saving
value chain carbon footprint has only
representing approximately £775 million – initiatives over the past five years, focusing
grown by 2% (vs 2010). We have therefore
more than half – of our annual spend on on sites with the highest water use and
reduced the value chain carbon footprint
raw materials. those in regions of water scarcity.
of the products we shipped in 2015 by
an average of 25% versus 2010. We have the most control over direct Around 86% of the water used across
emissions from our own operations. In our value chain comes from raw materials,
The continued growth in sales of our
2015, we reduced emissions within our mainly agricultural. In 2015 we partnered
Ventolin propellant-based inhalers
operations, by a further 2% to 1.6 million with The Energy and Resources Institute, which emit greenhouse gases during
tonnes of CO e. This is 21% less than a sustainable development NGO in India,
the administration of medication to 2
2010, with a cumulative saving of around to assess how we can reduce water impact
patients continues to impact our carbon
1 million tonnes of CO e over five years. in the rural communities that supply us with
footprint. We are researching solutions 2
We have achieved this by using energy the wheat, barley and milk to manufacture
to this issue including changing the way
efficiently and investing in renewable Horlicks.
we manufacture to reduce the amount
energy, which now provides around 4%
of propellant used while maintaining In 2015, GSK laboratories, manufacturing
of our total energy use. The wind turbine
efficacy for patients. sites and offices used around 1% of our
at our facility in Cork, Ireland, for example,
total water impact. We are making major
generates 28% of the site’s electricity and
investments to reduce this company-wide.
in 2015 delivered savings of €1 million and
4,100 tonnes of CO e.
2
Our strategy
1m
in action
25%
We have reduced direct We hit our 2015 water target a
carbon emissions (Scope year early, reducing our usage
1 and 2) by 21% since 2010, by 25% since 2010 – that’s a
We have reduced the value chain saving over 1 million tonnes saving of over 15 million m3,
carbon footprint of the products of CO 2e over five years more water than we use
we shipped in 2015 by an average in a whole year
of 25% versus 2010GSK Annual Report 2015 49
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Horlicks takes a Green Leap in India
Horlicks is one of our best-known We will be constructing a new 1MW
brands. Used as a nutritional combined heat and power plant at
supplement in India, it provides Rajahmundry that will also be fuelled
essential vitamins and minerals for with waste biomass. This plant will
growing children. improve efficiency by capturing heat
from power generation that would
But in 2012, we discovered through
otherwise be wasted.
lifecycle analysis that Horlicks had the
second largest carbon footprint of all our At Sonepat, we are installing photovoltaic
products. One reason for this was that our cells that generate 0.5MW of power from
three Horlicks factories in India – in Nabha, solar energy, and we are investing in
Rajahmundry and Sonepat – were powered efficient LED lighting across all three
by coal. sites to cut our energy use.
We are investing £9.6 million in Project Since the project began in April 2014,
Green Leap to reduce carbon emissions we have cut carbon emissions by 14%.
and water use at these three Horlicks
We have also installed effluent treatment
factories. For example, we continue to
plants and rainwater harvesting systems
increase the amount of waste biomass
that enable water to be reused and
we buy to replace coal as a fuel in our
disposed of safely, cutting water use by
boilers.
30% and helping to replenish groundwater
and restore local water sources.
Consumer use accounts for about 13% Waste
of our water footprint – mainly for cleaning We aim to reduce our operational waste “We identified a huge
teeth. In 2015, we continued to encourage by 50% by 2020, compared with 2010.
people not to leave water running while Over the last five years we have cut our opportunity, and have
brushing, with Sensodyne’s support for operational waste (hazardous and non-
reduced carbon emissions
the ‘Turn off the Tap’ campaign in the UK. hazardous) by 25%.
at Sonepat by more than
To realise our 2020 commitment, We encourage our sites to view waste
we are working with experts and NGOs as a resource and to share best practice. 5,000 tonnes between
to understand how best to cut our For example, our facility in East Durham,
water impact across the value chain. in the US, building on insights from our 2014 and 2015."
We have combined data from the WWF Dungarvan plant in Ireland, will install a
Water Risk Filter across four areas – machine that recycles fibre drums used Satyaprakash Punia
water scarcity, local water quality, for packaging, storage and transportation, Utilities and Site Energy Manager,
health and social risks, and regulatory saving more than US$300,000 per year. Sonepat, India
and reputational risks – to identify high
In 2015, we produced 15% less waste
water impact hotspots.
than the previous year. 6,900 tonnes,
representing 5% of our total waste, was
sent to landfill in 2015, a reduction of
2,600 tonnes compared to 2014.
By the end of 2015, 60% of our sites
sent no waste to landfill.
25%
GSK is still the only
pharmaceutical company
to hold the Carbon Trust’s
Since 2010, we have cut our In 2015, we scored 100% for Carbon Standard for
operational waste by 25% climate change disclosure and cutting carbon emissions
a B for performance in the and its Water Standard for
CDP’s FTSE 350 Climate reducing water use across
Disclosure Leadership Index our operations globallyStrategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial
review
5500 GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001155Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
“Our significant progress
in 2015 leaves us better
positioned to deliver
against our Financial
Architecture, driving EPS
growth ahead of sales
and improving our cash
flow generation.”
In 2015, we made significant progress In line with this prioritisation, the Board has
2015 highlights
against our strategy including closing the declared an ordinary dividend of 80 pence
Novartis transaction and accelerating the per share for 2015 and has also said that
delivery of our restructuring and integration it expects to pay an ordinary dividend of
programmes. This allowed us to release 80 pence per share for 2016 and 2017 as
£23.9bn £1 billion of incremental savings across we transition the Group’s businesses.
the Group, ahead of our original targets by
To deliver on this expectation and ensure
some £200 million. Importantly, we also
sufficient financial flexibility to continue
2015 Group turnover created additional flexibility to invest behind
to invest behind the synergy benefits and
(up 6% CER, up 1% CER pro-forma) both the R&D pipeline and new product
other growth opportunities as well as
launches, helping to build momentum in
respond to the potential exercise of put
174.3p each of our three businesses.
options by our partners in ViiV Healthcare
The Group is now better positioned to and the Consumer Healthcare Joint
drive sustainable growth and, given the Venture, we have retained all but £1 billion
Total earnings per share
significant restructuring and reshaping of of the net proceeds received from Novartis
(up >100% CER)
our cost base, is better placed to deliver and a number of other non-strategic asset
against our Financial architecture and drive disposals. £1 billion is being returned
75.7p growth in earnings per share ahead of to shareholders in the form of a special
sales, while improving cash generation to dividend of 20 pence per share to be paid
support the dividend over the longer term. in April 2016.
Core earnings per share
(down 15% CER) The current level of dividend exceeds the Retention of disposal proceeds and our
cash flows generated by the business. continued focus on cash flow management
Our strategy is designed to rebuild that and the protection of our credit profile has
Restructuring cash costs (£bn) capacity through the transition of the meant that during the year we were able
Group’s business away from its previous to fund the restructuring and integration
reliance on Seretide/Advair to more broadly programmes, declare an ordinary dividend
1.5
based and growing cash flows, driven of 80 pence per share and reduce net
1.3 by new products in Pharmaceuticals, the debt by £3.7 billion, securing the flexibility
1.0 1.1 expansion of our Vaccines and Consumer we need to complete the transition of
Healthcare businesses, operating cost our business and deliver on our strategic
savings arising from our integration and objectives.
0.5 0.5a 0.6 0.5 restructuring programme and a reduction Viability statement
in the level of restructuring spending as the
A new requirement this year is to assess the
programme comes to an end.
future prospects of the Group over a period
0
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 During this period of transition, we have longer than the 12 months required by the
Forecastb said that we intend to prioritise available going concern provisions of the Corporate
cash, whether from operational cash flows Governance Code. The outcome of this
Footnotes or disposals, for the return of ordinary review is set out under ‘Viability statement’
a Includes £0.3 billion cash costs on legacy dividends to shareholders and to accelerate on page 52.
restructuring programmes now completed.
investment behind our restructuring and
b Total charges for the combined restructuring integration programmes to support more
and integration programme are expected to be
rapid delivery of the synergy benefits and
approximately £5 billion, of which cash costs
other new growth opportunities we have
are expected to be approximately £3.65 billion.
identified across the Group.
The programme is expected to be largely
complete by the end of 2017.
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001155 5511Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
continued
This clear set of priorities ensures consistency in how capital is
Viability statement allocated across and between the different businesses within GSK
with relative returns from each business benchmarked to relevant
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Code,
external comparatives using a Cash Flow Return on Investment
GSK has assessed the prospects of the Group over a longer period
(CFROI) based framework of metrics. Specific capital investments
than the 12 months required by the ‘Going Concern’ provision. The
are also benchmarked in a similar way.
Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that GSK
will continue to operate and meets its liabilities, as they fall due, over Turnover growth
the next three years. The Directors’ assessment has been made with The Group’s turnover performance in 2015 reflected further
reference to our current position and prospects, our strategy, the progress in delivery against our strategic objective of building a
Board’s risk appetite and our principal risks and how these are more balanced set of growth drivers across our business. We
managed, as detailed on pages 16 and 17 in the Strategic report. continued to launch new products in our Pharmaceuticals business
The Board reviews our internal controls and risk management and we expanded our Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare
policies and approves our governance structure and code of businesses through the Novartis transaction. These new sources
conduct. It also appraises and approves major financing, investment of growth more than offset the decline of Seretide/Advair and
and licensing decisions, and evaluates and monitors the performance some of our other older products and we delivered overall turnover
and prospects of GSK as a whole. The focus is largely on improving growth of 6% CER in the year, up 1% pro-forma.
our long-term financial performance through simplifying the operating
Sales of New Pharmaceutical and Vaccines products of £2 billion
model, growing a diversified global business, and delivering more
in the year were a key driver but Consumer Healthcare also made
products of value.
a significant contribution, up 6% pro-forma, with new products,
The three year review considers our existing strategy and the including the recent Flonase OTC switch, driving growth.
associated principal risks that underpin our current three year plan,
which the Directors review at least annually. The Directors believe that Operating leverage
a three year assessment is most appropriate as it aligns with our normal Our ability to deliver improved profitability is heavily impacted by the
and well established three year business planning processes. This overall trend in our sales, but it can also be affected by changes in
three year period balances the long term nature of investments in the the mix of business, regional and product contributions to growth
Pharmaceutical industry with a realistic assessment of the variability of in operating profit. 2015 saw a significant change in the mix of the
the key drivers of near term business performance as well as external Group following the Novartis transaction, which helped create
factors and regulation impacting the business. It also reflects our view industry-leading Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare businesses
on access to capital markets and funding requirements as projected alongside the divestment of our marketed Oncology products.
within this analysis.
At the time of divestment, the Oncology business had a much
The plan has been stress tested in a series of robust operational and higher operating margin than the acquired Vaccines and Consumer
principal risk downside scenarios as part of the Board’s review on risk. Healthcare businesses, particularly given the heavy investment
The downside scenarios also consider GSK’s cash flows, dividend
and cost structure inherited from Novartis. While the integration
cover, funding strategy, insurance provision and recovery as well as
plans are addressing that cost structure directly and we have set
other key financial ratios over the period. These metrics have been
targets for significant margin improvement in both of the acquired
subject to sensitivity analyses which involve flexing a number of the
businesses, our core operating margin in the short-term has been
main assumptions underlying the forecasts both individually and in
affected materially by the transaction, with a total impact of around
combination. Where appropriate, these analyses have been stress
three percentage points of sales.
tested to ensure robustness of viability over the period and have
evaluated the potential impact of material negative changes in the The reported core operating margin declined a total of 4.1
macro-economic and healthcare environment, increased pricing percentage points to 23.9% with substantially all of the additional
pressure in both the US and Europe, the accelerated impact of a 1.1 percentage point decline reflecting the impact of the benefit
generic alternative to Seretide/Advair, and our principal risks actually
in 2014 to the operating margin of a structural credit in SG&A of
occurring as well as the earliest potential exercise of put options by
£219 million which was not repeated in 2015. Excluding this effect,
our partners. The three year review also makes certain assumptions
the pro-forma core operating margin was broadly flat.
about the normal level of capital recycling likely to occur and considers
whether additional financing facilities will be required and the This reflected the delivery of around £1 billion of incremental cost
respective level of funding flexibility and headroom. savings from our integration and restructuring programmes. The
savings contributed to offset price pressures in older parts of Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors confirm they have a
reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in the portfolio and also added to the cost flexibility we have been
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year building in recent years.
period of their assessment.
This provided greater opportunities to reallocate resources across
the Group, including reinvestment to support new launches and
our R&D pipeline, but also improvements to our manufacturing
Financial architecture capabilities and capacity.
Our financial architecture is designed to support the consistent
Our integration and restructuring programme is ahead of schedule.
execution of our strategy and to enhance the returns we deliver
By the end of 2015, the programme had delivered approximately
to shareholders.
£1.6 billion of annual savings and it remains on track to deliver
It is focused on delivering more sustainable sales growth across £3 billion of annual savings in total by the end of 2017.
the company, improving operating leverage, or profitability, and
Financial efficiency
enhancing our financial efficiency. This is in order to drive growth in
We continue to focus on improving our financial efficiency and overall
EPS ahead of our sales performance and then convert more of those
funding costs while protecting our credit profile and, in particular, our
earnings into cash that can be used to invest in the business or
short-term target credit ratings.
return to shareholders, wherever we see the most attractive returns.
52 GSK Annual Report 2015Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK financial architecture: driving improved returns to shareholders
Sales growth
Operating leverage EPS
Returns to
shareholders
Financial efficiency Free cash flow
Cash flow growth
Earnings per share (EPS)
Approach to tax
Total EPS in 2015 saw a significant increase to 174.3p, primarily
driven by the profit on the disposal of our Oncology business. Core
We understand our responsibility to pay an appropriate
EPS declined 15%, mainly reflecting the short-term dilution of the
amount of tax. In 2015 the Group paid corporate income
Novartis transaction but also the impact of the continuing transition
tax of £2,062 million (2014 – £1,108 million) on profits of
of our Pharmaceuticals business, particularly in Respiratory. £10,526 million (2014 – £2,968 million) representing a cash
In 2016, we expect core EPS percentage growth to reach tax rate of 19.6% (2014 – 37.3%). The corresponding accounting
double digits (CER). The base for this growth is the 2015 core tax charge on profits was £2,154 million (2014 – £137 million).
EPS of 75.7p. Tax risk is managed by a set of policies and procedures to
Free cash flow seek to ensure consistency and compliance with tax legislation.
Our Audit & Risk Committee and the Board are responsible for
Free cash flow generation in 2015 has been impacted by the
approving our tax policies and risk management.
ongoing transition of our pharmaceutical portfolio, particularly
the decline in Seretide/Advair but also the short-term impact of We seek to maintain open, positive relationships with governments
the Novartis transaction and, in particular, the inherited levels and tax authorities worldwide and we welcome constructive
of cost and investment that are being addressed as part of our debate on taxation policy. There continued to be a significant
synergy and integration plans. international focus on tax reform during 2015 – including the
OECD’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (‘BEPS’) project
The restructuring costs of these plans and other costs of the Novartis
and European Commission initiatives such as the proposed
transaction are being funded from the proceeds of the disposal of the ‘Anti-BEPS’ Directive and the increased use of fiscal state aid
Oncology business and other non-strategic assets, consistent with investigations. The OECD BEPS reports clarify the important
our general approach to funding the costs of restructuring. principle that tax should be paid on profits throughout the supply
chain, commensurate with where the profit making activity
Excluding the cash restructuring charges incurred during the year
takes place. GSK supports this approach and has been active
of £1.1 billion and the initial tax payments due on the Oncology
in providing relevant business input to assist in the successful
disposal, as well as legal payments, free cash flow generated in
delivery of the aims of the BEPS project. In particular, we support
2015 was £2.5 billion compared with £3.9 billion in 2014, when
the implementation of the OECD’s recommendations on Country-
adjusted on a comparable basis.
by-Country Reporting (‘CBCR’), including the exchange of CBCR
In addition to rebuilding our cash generation capacity, we continue data between tax authorities, as being key to its success. This
to focus on improving the efficiency of capital investment and our data, validated against existing information held on taxpayers, will
use of working capital to reduce internal cash requirements. This support their ability to ensure multinational groups pay the right
amount of tax.
is expected to allow us to build operating cash flows more quickly
while maintaining the dividend, returning the Group to growth and We do not engage in artificial tax arrangements – those without
protecting our credit profile. business or commercial substance. At the same time we have a
responsibility to our shareholders to be financially efficient and
Returns to shareholders
deliver a sustainable tax rate. The ongoing alignment of our Group
The Board approved an ordinary dividend of 80 pence for 2015,
structure to reflect our mix of operations and geographies has helped
together with a special 20 pence dividend to be paid from the net
us maintain an efficient effective tax rate. Our core tax rate for 2015
proceeds of the Oncology business and other asset disposals.
was 19.5%, similar to the rate in 2014 of 19.6%. However, some
This will be distributed in April 2016 alongside the regular fourth moderate upward pressure on the rate is expected over the next
quarter dividend for 2015. We also expect to pay annual dividends several years, given the Group’s momentum and changing earnings
of 80 pence for 2016 and 2017. mix in favour of the US in particular. For 2016 a core tax rate in the
20-21% range is expected.
A fuller review of the financial results is set out on pages 54 to 72.
Our approach to tax is set out in detail within the Public Policy
positions section of our website. Further details about our
corporate tax charges for the year are set out on page 158.
Simon Dingemans
Chief Financial Officer
GSK Annual Report 2015 53Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
continued
Pro-forma results reporting
Financial review 2015
The Novartis transaction completed on 2 March 2015 and so
our reported year to date results include ten month’s turnover of
Results reporting
the former Novartis Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare products
Our Group financial review discusses the operating and financial
and also exclude sales of the former GSK Oncology business from
performance of the Group, cash flows and our financial position
2 March. Following the completion of the transaction with Novartis,
and resources. We compare the results for each year primarily
we have reorganised the Group to reflect the greater balance
with the results of the preceding year. This review discusses the
between the Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer
total results of the Group and also core results.
Healthcare businesses and responsibilities for some parts
We also use a number of adjusted measures to report the of these respective businesses have been realigned. We are
performance of our business. These measures are used by reporting these three businesses separately with corporate costs
management for planning and reporting purposes and in reallocated to each accordingly so that the profitability of each
discussions with and presentations to investment analysts business is reflected more accurately. We have restated our
and rating agencies and are defined below. These measures segment information consistent with this realignment.
are not defined in IFRS and may not be comparable with similarly
In addition, we have presented unaudited pro-forma growth rates
described measures used by other companies.
for turnover, core operating profit and core operating profit by
CER growth business. Pro-forma growth rates are calculated comparing
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is our practice reported turnover and core operating profit for the year to
to discuss the results in terms of constant exchange rate (CER) December 2015 with the turnover and core operating profit for
growth. This represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates the year to December 2014 adjusted to include the equivalent
used to determine the results of overseas companies in Sterling ten month’s sales of the former Novartis Vaccines and Consumer
had remained unchanged from those used in the previous year. Healthcare products and exclude the sales of the former GSK
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. Oncology products from March to December 2014.
£% represents growth at actual exchange rates.
Free cash flow
All growth rates included in this Report are at CER unless Free cash flow is the net cash inflow from operating activities less
otherwise stated. capital expenditure, interest and dividends paid to non-controlling
interests plus proceeds from the sale of property, plant and
Core results reporting
equipment and dividends received from joint ventures and
Total reported results represent the Group’s overall performance.
associated undertakings. Free cash flow growth is calculated
However, these results can contain material unusual or non-
on a Sterling basis. A reconciliation is presented on page 65.
operational items that may obscure the key trends and factors
determining the Group’s operational performance. As a result, Adjusted free cash flow
we also report core results. Adjusted free cash flow excludes payments made to settle legal
disputes.
Core results exclude the following items from total results:
amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (excluding Working capital conversion cycle
computer software) and goodwill; major restructuring costs, The working capital conversion cycle is calculated as the number
including those costs following material acquisitions; legal charges of days sales outstanding plus days inventory outstanding, less
(net of insurance recoveries) and expenses on the settlement of days purchases outstanding.
litigation and government investigations, and acquisition
R&D internal rate of return
accounting adjustments for material acquisitions, disposals of
The calculation for 2015 included products launched from
associates, products and businesses, other operating income
1 January 2013 to 31 December 2015 and compounds in
other than royalty income, and other items, together with the tax
phases IIb and III of the development process. The calculation
effects of all of these items.
was based on actual sales from 2013 to 2015, and forecast sales
Core results reporting is utilised as one of the bases for internal up to 2036, adjusted to reflect expected failure rates, which are
performance reporting alongside Total results, cash flow broadly in line with standard industry failure rates. The cost base
generation and a number other metrics. Core results are presented used in this calculation comprises an estimate of attributable
and discussed in this Group financial review as we believe that R&D costs and actual and projected milestone payments
core results are more representative of the performance of the where appropriate.
Group’s operations and allow the key trends and factors driving
This IRR estimate factored in applicable components of the
that performance to be more easily and clearly identified by
Novartis transaction, including the acquisition costs and forecast
shareholders. The definition of core results, as set out above, also
cash flows of Bexsero and Men ABCWY, as well as cash flows
aligns the Group’s results with the majority of our peer companies
for the relevant oncology assets divested (i.e. products launched
and how they report earnings.
since 2013 and AKT inhibitor). The oncology cash flows included
Reconciliations between total and core results, including detailed estimated attributable R&D costs and an estimated proportion of
breakdowns of the key non-core items, are set out on page 62, the after-tax sale proceeds. Proceeds for products launched
and are provided to shareholders to ensure full visibility and before 2013 are excluded for consistency with our overall
transparency as they assess the Group’s performance. methodology. The net impact of the acquisitions and disposals
on the estimated IRR is not material.
54 GSK Annual Report 2015Strategic
report
Governance
& remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group turnover by geographic region
Group turnover
2014
Turnover £bn 2015 (restated) Growth Growth
£m £m CER% £%
32 £23.9bn US 8,222 7,409 3 11
28 Europe 6,450 6,292 11 3
24 26.5 International 9,251 9,305 5 (1)
20 23.0 23.9 Group turnover 23,923 23,006 6 4
16
6% 1% Group turnover outside of the US and Europe represented 39% of
12
total Group turnover in 2015 (2014: 40%).
08
04 Reported Pro-forma Sales from new Pharmaceutical and Vaccine products
0 CER growth CER growth
2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 Growth Growth
£m £m CER% £%
Respiratory
Operating profit £bn Relvar/Breo Ellipta 257 67 >100 >100
Anoro Ellipta 79 17 >100 >100
16 £10.3bn Arnuity Ellipta 3 – – –
14 Incruse Ellipta 14 – – –
12 Nucala 1 – – – Total operating profit
10 10.3 CVMU
08 >100% Eperzan/Tanzeum 41 6 >100 >100
06 7.0 Global Pharmaceuticals 395 90 >100 >100
04
02 3.6 Reported Tivicay 588 282 >100 >100
0 CER growth Triumeq 730 57 >100 >100
2013 2014 2015
Pharmaceuticals 1,713 429 >100 >100
Bexsero 115 – – –
Menveo 160 – – –
2014
2015 (restated) Growth Growth Vaccines 275 – – –
£m £m CER% £%
1,988 429 >100 >100
Global Pharmaceuticals 11,844 13,950 (14) (15)
HIV 2,322 1,498 54 55 At our Investor Day on 6 May 2015, we identified a series of
Pharmaceuticals 14,166 15,448 (7) (8) New Pharmaceutical and Vaccine products that were expected
Vaccines 3,657 3,159 19 16 to deliver at least £6 billion of revenues per annum on a CER basis
by 2020. Those products, plus current clinical pipeline asset,
Consumer Healthcare 6,028 4,312 44 40
Shingrix, are as set out above and, as a group are defined as
Segment turnover 23,851 22,919 6 4
New Pharmaceutical and Vaccine products. Sales of the New
Corporate and other
Pharmaceutical Vaccine products are now expected to reach
unallocated turnover 72 87 (9) (17) £6 billion of revenues per annum on a CER basis up to two years
Group turnover 23,923 23,006 6 4 earlier (2018).
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents Sales of New Pharmaceutical and Vaccine products were
growth at actual exchange rates. HIV turnover represents the sales of
£1,988 million and represented approximately 11% of
ViiV Healthcare.
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover in the year.
Group turnover for 2015 increased 6% on a reported basis to
£23,923 million, with Pharmaceuticals down 7%, Vaccines up
19% and Consumer Healthcare up 44%, reflecting the impact of the
Novartis transaction. On a pro-forma basis, Group turnover increased
1%, with Pharmaceuticals down 1%, Vaccines up 3% and Consumer
Healthcare up 6%. Sales of New Pharmaceutical and Vaccine
products were £1,988 million in the year.
The Corporate and unallocated turnover of £72 million represented
sales of several Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare products, which
were being held for sale in a number of markets. We were required
to dispose of these products in specific markets in order to meet the
requirements of the anti-trust approvals for the Novartis transaction.
The disposals were completed in August and September 2015.
GSK Annual Report 2015 55Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
continued
Pharmaceuticals Global Pharmaceuticals
Turnover £bn Turnover £bn
24 60% 24 50%
21 21
18 18
of Group turnover of Group turnover
15 17.4 15.4 15 16.0
12 14.2 12 14.0
(7)% (1)% 11.8 (14)% (7)%
09 09
06 06
03 Reported Pro-forma 03 Reported Pro-forma
0 CER growth CER growth 0 CER growth CER growth
2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015
Operating profit £bn Operating profit £bn
08 £4.3bn 08
8.0
£4.7bn
07 07
06 06 6.4
6.1 Operating profit Operating profit
05 05
5.0 4.7
04 4.3 04
(12)% (4)% (24)%(17)%
03 03
02 02
01 Reported Pro-forma 01 Reported Pro-forma
0 CER growth CER growth 0 CER growth CER growth
2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015
Pharmaceuticals turnover was £14,166 million, down 7% on a Global Pharmaceuticals turnover
reported basis, primarily reflecting the disposal of the Oncology
2014
business. Adjusting for the impact of the disposal, pro-forma 2015 (restated) Growth Growth
turnover was down 1%, reflecting a 7% decline in Respiratory £m £m CER% £%
sales and a 15% decline in sales of Established Products, largely Respiratory 5,741 6,168 (7) (7)
offset by growth in other New Pharmaceuticals products, Cardiovascular, metabolic
particularly HIV products Tivicay and Triumeq. and urology 858 965 (9) (11)
Sales of New Pharmaceutical products were £1,713 million, Immuno-inflammation 263 214 16 23
an increase of £1,284 million, which more than offset the decline Oncology 255 1,202 (79) (79)
in Seretide/Advair sales of £548 million. Global Seretide/Advair Other pharmaceuticals 2,199 2,390 (4) (8)
sales were £3.7 billion, down approximately 30% from their peak Established Products 2,528 3,011 (15) (16)
in 2013. 11,844 13,950 (14) (15)
Global Pharmaceuticals turnover was £11,844 million, down
14% on a reported basis, primarily reflecting the disposal of
the Oncology business. Adjusting for the impact of the disposal,
pro-forma turnover was down 7%, reflecting a 7% decline in
Respiratory sales and a 15% decline in sales of Established
Products. Sales of New Global Pharmaceutical products were
£395 million, an increase of £305 million.
In the US, Global Pharmaceuticals reported turnover of
£4,233 million, a decline of 20% in the year and 12% on a
pro-forma basis. The pro-forma decline primarily reflected a
10% fall in Respiratory sales and a 30% fall in Established
Products sales. Within Respiratory, Advair sales were down 13%
to £1,865 million (4% volume decline and a 9% negative impact
of price and mix) and Flovent sales down 19% to £379 million.
These declines were partly offset by sales of the new Respiratory
products, Breo Ellipta, Anoro Ellipta, Incruse Ellipta and Arnuity
Ellipta, with combined sales of £177 million in the year.
56 GSK Annual Report 2015Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
The primary driver of the decline in Established Products was Cardiovascular, metabolic and urology
Lovaza, which was down 64% to £93 million following the launch Sales in the category declined 9% to £858 million in the year.
of generic competition in April 2014. Avodart declined 41% to The Avodart franchise fell 15% to £657 million, with 1% growth in
£166 million reflecting the launch of generic competition in sales of Duodart/Jalyn more than offset by a 21% decline in sales
October 2015. Relenza sales more than doubled to £69 million, of Avodart reflecting the patent expiry in the US in October 2015.
partly reflecting US CDC orders, while Benlysta continued its Sales of Prolia were up 12% to £43 million. In December 2015,
strong growth with sales of £209 million, up 24%. Amgen re-acquired the rights to Prolia from GSK.
In Europe, Global Pharmaceuticals turnover declined 16% to Immuno-inflammation
£2,849 million and was down 7% on a pro-forma basis after Immuno-inflammation sales grew 16% to £263 million. Benlysta
adjusting for the impact of the Oncology disposal. Respiratory sales in the year were £230 million, up 25%. In the US, Benlysta
sales declined 9% to £1,415 million with an 18% decline in sales were £209 million, up 24%.
Seretide due to increased generic competition and the ongoing
Oncology
transition to the new Ellipta products, which reported total sales
Sales of oncology products were £255 million in the year
of £99 million in the year. Established Products sales were down
(2014 – £1,202 million) following the disposal of the Oncology
11% to £493 million, reflecting increased generic competition
business to Novartis on 2 March 2015.
and some capacity constraints to supply of a number of products.
Other pharmaceuticals
International Global Pharmaceuticals sales of £4,762 million
Sales in other therapy areas fell 4% to £2,199 million in the year.
were down 7% on a reported basis and down 3% on a pro-forma
Augmentin sales were down 2% at £528 million and Dermatology
basis. Sales in Emerging Markets of £2,963 million declined 9%
sales declined 9% to £412 million, in part adversely affected by
(down 5% pro-forma). Emerging Market Respiratory sales declined
supply constraints. Relenza sales were up 22% to £109 million
1%, with Seretide down 5%, impacted by increased generic
driven by US CDC orders.
competition and price pressure, offset by Flovent up 5%, Ventolin,
up 1%, and Avamys, up 8%, as well as £13 million of Relvar Ellipta Sales of products for Rare diseases declined 6% to £371 million,
and Anoro Ellipta sales. Established Products were down 14%, primarily as a result of generic competition to Mepron in the US.
and Dermatology products were down 15%, both partly impacted
Established Products
by supply constraints.
Established Products turnover fell 15% to £2,528 million in the
Within Emerging Markets, China was down 18% reported (down year. Sales in the US were down 30% to £647 million, primarily
17% pro-forma), with Respiratory flat and Established Products reflecting a 64% fall in sales of Lovaza to £93 million.
down 21%, primarily reflecting significantly increased pricing
Europe was down 11% to £493 million, reflecting increased
pressures and the ongoing reshaping of the business, including
generic competition to a number of products and some supply
a number of product disposals. In Japan, Global Pharmaceutical
constraints. Seroxat sales fell 12% to £35 million.
sales were down 5% on a reported basis (down 1% pro-forma) to
£1,213 million with a 5% increase in Respiratory sales, primarily International was down 8% to £1,388 million, primarily reflecting
driven by Relvar Ellipta, offset by lower sales of Relenza, reflecting lower sales of Seroxat/Paxil, down 10% to £143 million, due to
a weaker and earlier flu season than in 2014, and continued generic competition in Japan, and of Zeffix, down 23% to
competitive pressures to a number of Established Products. £125 million. This was partly offset by increased Valtrex sales,
up 30% to £121 million, following the regaining of exclusivity in
Respiratory
Canada from late 2014 until October 2015. Sales in China fell
Respiratory sales in the year declined 7% to £5,741 million.
21% to £249 million, primarily reflecting significantly increased
Seretide/Advair sales were down 13% to £3,681 million,
pricing pressures, together with supply constraints on Zeffix.
Flixotide/Flovent sales decreased 12% to £623 million and
Ventolin sales fell 7% to £620 million. The combined total of all
Ellipta product sales was £353 million.
In the US, Respiratory sales declined 10% to £2,750 million in the
year (4% volume growth and a 14% negative impact of price and
mix). Sales of Advair were £1,865 million, down 13% (4% volume
decline and a 9% negative impact of price and mix, including the
benefit of positive adjustments to payer rebates provisions in the
fourth quarter). Flovent sales were down 19% to £379 million and
Ventolin sales fell 15% to £304 million primarily as a result of net
negative movements in payer rebates provisions. The new Ellipta
products recorded sales of £177 million in the year.
European Respiratory sales were down 9% to £1,415 million,
with Seretide sales down 18% to £1,014 million (11% volume
decline and a 7% negative impact of price and mix), reflecting the
expected pressures of increased competition from generics and
the transition of the Respiratory portfolio to newer products.
Relvar Ellipta recorded sales of £80 million in the year, while
Anoro Ellipta recorded sales of £16 million.
Respiratory sales in the International region were flat at
£1,576 million with Emerging Markets down 1% and Japan
up 5%. In Emerging Markets, sales of Seretide declined 5% to
£460 million, while Ventolin grew 1% to £182 million. In Japan,
sales of Relvar Ellipta of £56 million, together with strong Avamys
and Xyzal sales growth, more than offset a 13% decline in Adoair
sales.
GSK Annual Report 2015 57Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
continued
HIV Vaccines
Turnover £bn Turnover £bn
4.0 10% 4.0 15%
3.5 3.5 3.7
3.0 3.0 3.4 3.2
of Group turnover of Group turnover
2.5 2.5
2.0 2.3 2.0
54% 19% 3%
1.5 1.5
1.0 1.4 1.5 0.1
0.5 Reported 0.5 Reported Pro-forma
0 CER growth 0 CER growth CER growth
2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015
Operating profit £bn Operating profit £bn
2.0 £1.7bn 2.0 £1.0bn
1.7 1.5 1.5
Operating profit Operating profit
1.0 1.0
0.9
1.0 72% 1.0 1.0 1.0 (9)% 7%
0.5 0.5
Reported Reported Pro-forma
0 CER growth 0 CER growth CER growth
2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015
Vaccines turnover
HIV turnover
2015 2014 Growth Growth
£m £m CER% £% 2015 2014 Growth Growth
Combivir 34 59 (42) (42) £m £m CER% £%
Epzicom/Kivexa 698 768 (7) (9) Bexsero 115 – – –
Lexiva/Telzir 65 87 (25) (25) Infanrix, Pediarix 733 828 (9) (11)
Selzentry 124 136 (8) (9) Boostrix 358 317 12 13
Tivicay 588 282 >100 >100 Fluarix, FluLaval 268 215 21 25
Hepatitis 540 558 (4) (3)
Triumeq 730 57 >100 >100
Menveo 160 – – –
Trizivir 26 36 (28) (28)
Rotarix 417 376 14 11
Other 57 73 (19) (22)
Synflorix 381 398 5 (4)
2,322 1,498 54 55
Other 685 467 57 46
Worldwide HIV sales increased 54% to £2,322 million, with 3,657 3,159 19 16
the US up 77%, Europe up 46% and International up 15%.
Vaccines sales grew 19% to £3,657 million with the US up 24%,
The growth in all three regions was driven primarily by the
Europe up 23% and International up 12%. The business benefited
strong performances of both Triumeq and Tivicay, with sales
from sales of the newly acquired products, primarily the Meningitis
of £730 million and £588 million respectively in the year.
portfolio, in Europe and the US. The 3% pro-forma growth was
Epzicom/Kivexa sales declined 7% to £698 million and mainly driven by Bexsero sales in Europe and strong Rotarix,
Selzentry declined 8% to £124 million. Combivir and Lexiva Fluarix/FluLaval, and Boostrix sales in the US. The growth
sales fell 42% and 25%, respectively. was partly offset by a decline in Infanrix/Pediarix sales due to
the return of a competitor to the market in the US, increased
competitor activity in Europe and supply constraints in
International. Hepatitis A vaccines sales declined due to supply
constraints and International was impacted by higher trade
inventory of newly acquired vaccines. Cervarix sales declined
following the introduction of a new competitor vaccine.
58 GSK Annual Report 2015Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
In the US, sales grew 24% on a reported basis (up 9% pro-forma)
Consumer Healthcare
to £1,258 million. Pro-forma growth was driven mainly by a strong
performance from Fluarix/FluLaval as a result of the conversion Turnover £bn
to the Quadrivalent formulation, Rotarix benefiting from CDC
stockpile replenishments, Boostrix due to market share gains, and 08 25%
the Meningitis portfolio driven primarily by the launch of Bexsero. 07
This growth was partly offset by an Infanrix/Pediarix sales decline 06
of 17%, primarily as a result of the return to the market of a 6.0 of Group turnover
05
competitor vaccine during 2014 combined with lower CDC
stockpile purchases than in 2014. 04 4.7 4.3 44% 6%
03
In Europe, sales grew 23% on a reported basis (up 9% pro-forma) 02
to £1,097 million. Pro-forma growth primarily reflected increased
01 Reported Pro-forma
sales in the Meningitis portfolio with Bexsero gaining in several 0 CER growth CER growth
private markets including Italy, Spain, Germany and Portugal as 2013 2014 2015
well as in the UK following its inclusion in the NHS immunisation
programme. Menveo also delivered incremental sales as a result
of tender awards in the UK and Italy. Growth was partly offset by Operating profit £bn
sales declines in Infanrix/Pediarix due to supply constraints and
increased competitor activity, Hepatitis A vaccines due to supply 2.0 £0.7bn
constraints, and Cervarix following the introduction of a new
competitor vaccine. Germany grew strongly with the MMRV 1.5
portfolio, Boostrix and Infanrix/Pediarix, all up due to better Operating profit
supply and competitor supply shortages.
1.0
66% 24%
In International, sales grew by 12% on a reported basis but
declined 5% on a pro-forma basis to £1,302 million. The pro-forma 0.5 0.7 0.7
0.5
performance was mainly driven by lower tender volumes in Latin Reported Pro-forma
America, particularly for Synflorix, partly offset by increased 0 CER growth CER growth
market access and demand for Synflorix in Africa and Bangladesh. 2013 2014 2015
Cervarix sales decreased in Mexico and South Africa due to lower
demand. Infanrix/Pediarix and Hepatitis A vaccines sales were
Consumer Healthcare turnover
down, reflecting supply constraints, and the newly acquired
vaccines declined due to the phasing of shipments and higher 2014
trade inventory levels inherited as part of the acquisition. 2015 (restated) Growth Growth
£m £m CER% £%
Wellness 2,970 1,565 95 90
Oral health 1,866 1,797 8 4
Nutrition 684 633 7 8
Skin health 508 317 67 60
6,028 4,312 44 40
2014
2015 (restated) Growth Growth
£m £m CER% £%
US 1,430 851 56 68
Europe 1,788 1,138 70 57
International 2,810 2,323 27 21
6,028 4,312 44 40
The Consumer Healthcare business represents the Consumer
Healthcare Joint Venture with Novartis together with the GSK
Consumer Healthcare listed businesses in India and Nigeria,
which are excluded from the Joint Venture.
Turnover grew 44% to £6,028 million, benefiting significantly
from the sales of the newly-acquired products included in the Joint
Venture. On a pro-forma basis, growth was 6% (4% volume and
2% price), primarily reflecting strong growth in the US following
the launch of OTC Flonase, buoyant sales in India driven by
Horlicks as well as global specialist Oral health growth, partly
due to a recovery from supply disruptions in 2014. Sales from new
GSK innovations (product introductions within the last three years
on a rolling basis) represented approximately 14% of sales, higher
than in prior years primarily due to the Flonase switch to OTC
earlier in the year. Other key 2015 launches included Sensodyne
Repair and Protect Whitening in the US and Germany, Voltaren
12 hour and the roll-out of Sensodyne mouthwash.
GSK Annual Report 2015 59Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
continued
US sales grew 56% on a reported basis to £1,430 million,
Total results
and 22% on a pro-forma basis. Flonase was the region’s
principal growth driver. Oral health sales continued to be driven
The total results of the Group are set out below. Reconciliations of
by Sensodyne, up 13%, with the launch of Sensodyne Repair
total results to core results are presented on page 62.
and Protect Whitening, supply recovery and distribution gains
for Sensodyne Pronamel. Excedrin grew 9% following the launch 2015 2014 Growth
of the gel tablet format combined with momentum in the tension % of % of
£m turnover £m turnover CER% £%
headache variant. Theraflu posted strong growth due to its
Turnover 23,923 100 23,006 100 6 4
re-launch, the new warming syrups format and price increases.
Cost of sales (8,853) (37.0) (7,323) (31.8) 24 21
Nicorette lozenges, Nicorette Mini lozenges and alli returned to
Selling, general
the market but Tums was impacted by supply constraints and
increased competitive pressure during the year. and administration (9,232) (38.6) (8,246) (35.8) 13 12
Research and
Sales in Europe grew 70% on a reported basis to £1,788 million development (3,560) (14.9) (3,450) (15.0) 2 3
and grew 3% pro-forma. The pro-forma performance was driven Royalty income 329 1.4 310 1.3 8 6
by Oral health products, which reported growth of 6%, reflecting
Other operating
strong performances from both Sensodyne and Gum health
income 7,715 32.2 (700) (3.1)>100 >100
products following an improved supply position compared with
Operating profit 10,322 43.1 3,597 15.6 >100 >100
2014, new advertising in key markets, and the roll out of new
Sensodyne variants across the region. In Wellness, pain relief Net finance costs (653) (659)
recorded a strong double-digit pro-forma performance, driven Profit on disposal of
by Voltaren which also benefited from new marketing campaigns. interest in associates 843 –
The brand recorded its highest market shares in many of the major Share of after tax
European markets, including Germany, Italy, Poland and France. profits of associates
These strong performances were partly offset by adverse and joint ventures 14 30
performances in the Nutrition and Skin health categories, due to Profit before taxation 10,526 2,968 >100 >100
the re-alignment of resources across the brand portfolio following
Taxation (2,154) (137)
the integration of the businesses and the termination of a number
Total profit after
of third party supply arrangements as part of a supply chain
taxation for the year 8,372 2,831 >100 >100
simplification initiative.
Total profit attributable
International sales of £2,810 million grew 27% on a reported basis to shareholders 8,422 2,756
and were up 2% pro-forma. Oral health sales grew strongly across Earnings per share (p) 174.3 57.3 >100 >100
the region with double-digit growth on Sensodyne and Denture
Earnings per ADS
care products. Wellness sales declined 3% on a pro-forma basis,
(US$) 5.33 1.89
largely a result of the impact of the excess channel inventories in
parts of the acquired consumer businesses, most notably China, Cost of sales
Russia and Middle East, together with generic competition which Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 37.0%,
impacted Panadol Osteo in Australia, and economic and political 5.2 percentage points higher than in 2014 and 5.4 percentage
uncertainties in Venezuela. India led the growth amongst the points higher on a CER basis. The increase reflected the disposal
priority markets, reporting double-digit performances from Eno, of our higher margin Oncology business and the acquisition of the
Sensodyne and Horlicks, driven by distribution gains and new lower margin Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare businesses
marketing campaigns and the re-launch of the improved chocolate from Novartis. In addition, there were adverse price movements,
flavoured Horlicks. Sales in Brazil were down to low-single digits particularly in US Pharmaceuticals, and increased investments
as the business transitioned to new product formulations in the in Vaccines to improve the reliability and capacity of the supply
sun care business. chain, together with increased intangible asset amortisation and
impairment charges and higher integration and restructuring costs.
This was partly offset by an improved product mix, particularly as
a result of the growth in HIV sales, and the benefits of the Group’s
ongoing cost reduction programmes.
Selling, general and administration
SG&A costs as a percentage of sales were 38.6%, 2.8 percentage
points higher than in 2014 and 2.3 percentage points higher on
a CER basis. This increase primarily reflected the impacts of the
Novartis transaction in 2015 and the £219 million credit in SG&A in
2014 from a release of reserves following simplification of our entity
structure, together with higher integration and restructuring costs
and increased promotional product support, particularly for new
launches in Respiratory, Consumer Healthcare, Vaccines and HIV.
This was partly offset by the benefits of the Pharmaceuticals cost
reduction programme, synergies in Vaccines and Consumer
Healthcare and lower legal charges.
Research and development
R&D expenditure increased 2% CER to £3,560 million (14.9%
of turnover) compared with £3,450 million (15.0% of turnover)
in 2014. The benefits of the cost reduction programmes in
Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare R&D were
more than offset by higher integration and restructuring costs.
60 GSK Annual Report 2015Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Other operating income Net finance costs
Net other operating income of £7,715 million (2014 – £700 million
2015 2014
expense) included the profits on the disposals of the Oncology Finance income £m £m
business of £9,228 million and ofatumumab of £200 million. Interest and other finance income 99 66
This was partly offset by a further increase in the liability for Fair value movements 5 2
the contingent consideration for the acquisition of the former 104 68
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture of £1,874 million
(2014 – £768 million) following the improved sales performance Finance expense
of Tivicay and Triumeq. The liability of £3,409 million at 31
Interest expense (719) (688)
December 2015 represents the present value of expected future
Unwinding of discounts on liabilities (16) (15)
payments to Shionogi. Further details of the consideration due
Remeasurements and fair value movements (8) (10)
to Shionogi in relation to ViiV Healthcare are set out on page 70.
Other finance expense (14) (14)
Operating profit
(757) (727)
Total operating profit was £10,322 million compared with
£3,597 million in 2014. The increase primarily reflected the profits Profit on disposal of interest in associates
on disposal of the Oncology business to Novartis and several equity The profit on disposal of associates was £843 million
investment and other asset disposals. This was partly offset by (2014 – £nil). This arose from the disposal of half of our investment
increased integration and restructuring costs, the adverse impact on in Aspen Pharmacare and the remeasurement of the remaining
margins of the disposal of the higher margin Oncology business and holding to market value on its reclassification to other investments.
acquisition of the lower margin Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures
businesses from Novartis and the increase in the contingent
The share of profits of associates and joint ventures was
consideration liability payable on the acquisition of the former
£14 million (2014 – £30 million profit), including a £16 million
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture.
gain, being our share of the profit on a disposal of an investment
Intangible asset amortisation decreased to £563 million from recognised by one of the associates. In 2014, the share of profits
£575 million in 2014. Intangible asset impairments of £206 million of associates principally arose on our holding in Aspen
(2014: £150 million) included impairments of several R&D and Pharmacare.
commercial assets. Both of these charges were non-cash items.
Profit before taxation
Major restructuring charges accrued in the year were £1,891 million Taking account of net finance costs, the profit on disposal of
(2014 – £750 million) and reflected the acceleration of a number of interest in associates and the share of profits of associates, profit
integration projects following completion of the Novartis transaction, before taxation was £10,526 million compared with £2,968 million
as well as further charges as part of the Pharmaceuticals in 2014.
restructuring programme. Cash payments made in the year were
Taxation
£1,131 million (2014 – £566 million). The programme has delivered
approximately £1 billion of incremental benefits in 2015 compared 2015 2014
£m £m with 2014.
UK current year charge 156 221
Charges to date for the combined restructuring and integration Rest of world current year charge 2,924 1,092
programme are £2.7 billion. The total cash charges of the combined
Charge in respect of prior periods (508) (571)
programme are expected to be approximately £3.65 billion and
Total current taxation 2,572 742
the non-cash charges up to £1.35 billion. By the end of 2015,
Total deferred taxation (418) (605)
the programme had delivered approximately £1.6 billion of annual
Taxation on total profits 2,154 137
savings and remained on track to deliver £3 billion of annual savings
in total. The programme is expected to be largely complete by the
The charge for taxation on total profits amounted to £2,154 million
end of 2017.
and represented a total effective tax rate of 20.5% (2014 – 4.6%).
Legal charges of £221 million (2014 – £548 million) included In 2015 GSK made payments of £111 million in UK Corporation
the settlement of a number of existing matters and litigation costs. tax. In January 2016 GSK made further payments of £100 million
The charge in 2014 included the £301 million fine payable to in relation to UK Corporation tax. These amounts are for
the Chinese government. Cash payments were £420 million Corporation tax only and do not include various other business
(2014 – £702 million). taxes borne by GSK each year. See ‘Taxation’ on page 158 for
further details.
Acquisition-related adjustments resulted in a net charge of
£2,238 million (2014 – £843 million). This included remeasurements Earnings per share
of the liability and the unwinding of the discounting effects on the Total EPS was 174.3p, compared with 57.3p in 2014, the increase
contingent consideration for the acquisition of the former Shionogi- primarily reflecting the profits on disposal of the Oncology
ViiV Healthcare joint venture of £1,874 million (2014 – £768 million); business and the Aspen Pharmacare shares, partly offset by the
the contingent consideration related to the acquisition of the former increase in the liability for the contingent consideration due on the
Novartis Vaccines business of £91 million, net of hedging gains acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture
(2014 – £nil); and the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture put option and accelerated charges for major restructuring expenditure.
of £83 million (2014 – £nil). Further details of the consideration due
Dividends
to Shionogi in relation to ViiV Healthcare are set out on page 70.
The Board declared four interim dividends resulting in a total
Disposals and other items resulted in a net credit of £9,712 million dividend for the year of 80 pence, in line with the dividend for
(2014 – £131 million charge). This included the profit on disposal 2014. In addition, the Board has declared a special dividend of
of the Oncology business to Novartis of £9,228 million and the profit 20 pence to be paid out of the proceeds of the disposals of the
on disposal of ofatumumab, together with equity investment and Oncology business and other assets. See Note 16 to the Financial
other asset disposals, equity investment impairments reflecting statements, ‘Dividends’.
current market valuations, one-off required regulatory charges in
R&D and certain other adjusting items.
GSK Annual Report 2015 61Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
continued
Core results reconciliation – 31 December 2015
Intangible Intangible
Total asset asset Major Legal Acquisition Disposals Core
results amortisation impairment restructuring charges accounting and other results
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 23,923 23,923
Cost of sales (8,853) 522 147 563 89 12 (7,520)
Gross profit 15,070 522 147 563 89 12 16,403
Selling, general and administration (9,232) 7 1,009 221 88 (7,907)
Research and development (3,560) 41 52 319 52 (3,096)
Royalty income 329 329
Other operating income 7,715 2,061 (9,776) –
Operating profit 10,322 563 206 1,891 221 2,238 (9,712) 5,729
Net finance costs (653) 5 12 (636)
Profit on disposal of associates 843 (843) –
Share of after tax profits/(losses) of
associates and joint ventures 14 (16) (2)
Profit before taxation 10,526 563 206 1,896 221 2,238 (10,559) 5,091
Taxation (2,154) (161) (50) (441) (21) (352) 2,186 (993)
Tax rate 20.5% 19.5%
Profit after taxation 8,372 402 156 1,455 200 1,886 (8,373) 4,098
(Loss)/profit attributable to
non-controlling interests (50) 500 (10) 440
Profit attributable to shareholders 8,422 402 156 1,455 200 1,386 (8,363) 3,658
Earnings per share 174.3p 8.3p 3.2p 30.1p 4.1p 28.8p (173.1)p 75.7p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,831 4,831
Core results reconciliation – 31 December 2014
Intangible Intangible
Total asset asset Major Legal Acquisition Disposals Core
results amortisation impairment restructuring charges accounting and other results
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 23,006 23,006
Cost of sales (7,323) 503 78 204 3 (6,535)
Gross profit 15,683 503 78 204 3 16,471
Selling, general and administration (8,246) 430 548 75 119 (7,074)
Research and development (3,450) 72 72 116 77 (3,113)
Royalty income 310 310
Other operating income (700) 768 (68) –
Operating profit 3,597 575 150 750 548 843 131 6,594
Net finance costs (659) 5 8 (646)
Share of after tax profits of
associates and joint ventures 30 30
Profit before taxation 2,968 575 150 755 548 843 139 5,978
Taxation (137) (209) (29) (215) (26) (134) (422) (1,172)
Tax rate 4.6% 19.6%
Profit after taxation 2,831 366 121 540 522 709 (283) 4,806
Profit attributable to
non-controlling interests 75 147 222
Profit attributable to shareholders 2,756 366 121 540 522 562 (283) 4,584
Earnings per share 57.3p 7.6p 2.5p 11.3p 10.9p 11.7p (5.9)p 95.4p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,808 4,808
62 GSK Annual Report 2015Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
The operations of Pharmaceuticals R&D are broadly split into
Core results
Discovery activities (up to the completion of phase IIa trials) and
Development work (from phase IIb onwards) each supported by
We use core results, among other metrics including Total results
specific and common infrastructure and other shared services
and cash flow generation, to manage the performance of the
where appropriate. Phase IV costs and other administrative
Group. The definition of core results is set out on page 54.
expenses are reported in SG&A and are not included in the
Cost of sales table below.
The table below analyses core R&D expenditure by these
2015 2014 Growth
categories:
% of % of
£m turnover £m turnover CER% £% 2015 2014
Cost of sales (7,520) (31.4) (6,535) (28.4) 18 15 £m £m
Discovery 744 739
Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 31.4%, 3.0
Development 1,136 1,317
percentage points higher than in 2014. On a pro-forma basis,
Facilities and central support functions 433 455
the cost of sales percentage increased 0.8 percentage points
Pharmaceuticals R&D 2,313 2,511
and 1.0 percentage points on a CER basis. This reflected
adverse price movements, particularly in US Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines R&D 525 443
and increased investments in Vaccines to improve the reliability Consumer Healthcare R&D 258 159
and capacity of the supply chain. This was partly offset by an Research and development 3,096 3,113
improved product mix, particularly as a result of the growth in HIV
The proportion of Pharmaceuticals R&D investment made in the
sales, and the benefits of our ongoing cost reduction programmes.
late-stage portfolio decreased from 52% of Pharmaceuticals R&D
Selling, general and administration costs in 2014 to 49% in 2015, reflecting the completion of a
number of late-stage programmes.
2015 2014 Growth
% of % of Royalty income
£m turnover £m turnover CER% £% Royalty income was £329 million (2014 – £310 million).
Selling, general
and administration (7,907) (33.1) (7,074) (30.7) 12 12 Core operating profit by business
2014
SG&A costs as a percentage of sales were 33.1%, 2.4 percentage
2015 (restated) Growth
points higher than in 2014 and 2.0 percentage points higher on a
Margin Margin
CER basis. On a pro-forma basis, SG&A costs as a percentage of £m % £m % CER% £%
sales increased 1.2 percentage points, and 0.8 percentage points Global
on a CER basis. This increase primarily reflected the impact of the Pharmaceuticals 4,733 40.0 6,388 45.8 (24) (26)
£219 million credit in SG&A in 2014 from a release of reserves HIV 1,686 72.6 977 65.2 72 73
following simplification of our entity structure. Excluding this,
Pharmaceuticals R&D (2,168) (2,326) (10) (7)
SG&A costs as a percentage of sales decreased 0.1 percentage
Pharmaceuticals 4,251 30.0 5,039 32.6 (12) (16)
points on a CER basis, driven by declines in Global
Vaccines 966 26.4 997 31.6 (9) (3)
Pharmaceuticals, including the benefits of the Pharmaceuticals
Consumer
cost reduction programme, and synergies in Vaccines and
Healthcare 680 11.3 491 11.4 66 38
Consumer Healthcare, largely offset by promotional product
support, particularly for new launches in Respiratory, Consumer 5,897 24.7 6,527 28.5 (6) (10)
Healthcare, Vaccines and HIV. Corporate & other
unallocated costs (168) 67 >(100)>100
Research and development
Core operating profit 5,729 23.9 6,594 28.7 (9) (13)
2015 2014 Growth
Core operating profit was £5,729 million, 9% lower than in 2014
% of % of
£m turnover £m turnover CER% £% in CER terms on a turnover increase of 6%. The core operating
Research and margin of 23.9% was 4.8 percentage points lower than in 2014.
development (3,096) (12.9) (3,113) (13.5) (2) (1) Excluding the adverse impact of currency movements, particularly
from the Euro and Emerging Markets currencies, the core
R&D expenditure declined 2% CER to £3,096 million (12.9% of operating margin was 4.1 percentage points lower on a CER
turnover) compared with £3,113 million (13.5% of turnover) in basis. This decline included a 3.0 percentage point impact of the
2014. On a pro-forma basis, R&D expenditure declined 5% Novartis transaction, reflecting the disposal of the higher margin
reflecting the benefit of cost reduction programmes in Oncology business and the acquisition of the lower margin and
Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare R&D. different cost structures of the Vaccines and Consumer
Healthcare businesses from Novartis.
GSK Annual Report 2015 63Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
continued
On a pro-forma basis, core operating profit was 2.7% lower in Net finance costs
CER terms compared with 2014 on a turnover increase of 1%,
2015 2014
which primarily reflected a decline in the pro-forma core operating Finance income £m £m
margin of 1.1 percentage points. However, this decline also Interest and other income 99 66
included a 0.9 percentage point impact from the adverse Fair value movements 5 2
comparison with 2014 which included a £219 million credit in
104 68
SG&A from a release of reserves following simplification of the
Group’s entity structure and its trading arrangements. Excluding
Finance expense
this effect, the core operating margin declined 0.2 percentage
Interest expense (719) (688)
points reflecting the balance between the continued impact of the
Unwinding of discounts on liabilities 1 (2)
decline in sales of Seretide/Advair, including contracting and other
price reductions, lower sales of Established Products, as well as Remeasurements and fair value movements (8) (10)
the investments required behind multiple new launches in Other finance expense (14) (14)
Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, as we (740) (714)
transition our product portfolio, offset by the savings released by
our restructuring and integration programmes and the benefits of Net finance expense was £636 million compared with £646
an improved product mix, particularly from the growth in HIV sales. million in 2014.
Pharmaceuticals Share of after tax losses of associates and joint ventures
Pharmaceuticals operating profit was £4,251 million, 12% lower The share of losses of associates and joint ventures was £2 million
than in 2014 in CER terms on a turnover decrease of 7%. The (2014 – £30 million profit). In March 2015, we reduced our
core operating margin of 30.0% was 2.6 percentage points lower shareholding in our significant associate, Aspen Pharmacare
than in 2014 and 1.8 percentage points lower on a CER basis. Holdings Limited, from 12.4% to 6.2% of the issued share capital.
On a pro-forma basis, the core operating margin decreased As a result, we no longer account for Aspen as an associate.
1.2 percentage points on a CER basis, which reflected adverse Core profit before taxation
price movements in Global Pharmaceuticals, particularly in the
US for Respiratory products, the increased promotional and 2015 2014 Growth
manufacturing investments behind new product launches in % of % of
£m turnover £m turnover CER% £%
Respiratory and HIV as well as targeted investments in
Core profit before tax 5,091 21.3 5,978 26.0 (10) (15)
manufacturing capacity and stability elsewhere in the portfolio,
partly offset by a more favourable product mix, primarily driven Taxation
by the growth in HIV sales, and the benefits of the Group’s cost
Tax on core profit amounted to £993 million and represented an
reduction programmes. The core operating margin for Global
effective core tax rate of 19.5% (2014 –19.6%), reflecting the
Pharmaceuticals was 40.0% (2014 – 45.8%) and for HIV was
resolution of a number of items that benefited the year.
72.6% (2014 – 65.2%).
Non-controlling interests
Vaccines
The allocation of earnings to non-controlling interests amounted
Vaccines operating profit was £966 million, 9% lower than
to £440 million (2014 – £222 million), including the non-
in 2014 in CER terms on a turnover increase of 19%. The core
controlling interest allocations of Consumer Healthcare segment
operating margin of 26.4% was 5.2 percentage points lower than
profits of £205 million (2014 – £60 million) and the allocation
2014 and 7.6 percentage points lower on a CER basis, primarily
of ViiV Healthcare profits, which increased to £224 million
driven by the inclusion of the cost base of the former Novartis
(2014 – £132 million). Further details of our economic interest
Vaccines business. Pro-forma core operating profit grew by 7%
in the profits of ViiV Healthcare are set out on page 70.
on a turnover increase of 3% on a CER basis. The pro-forma
operating margin improved 0.8 percentage points to 26.4% Core earnings per share
reflecting an increase in cost of sales as a percentage of turnover Core EPS of 75.7p declined 15% in CER terms compared with
due to additional supply chain investments and the benefit to cost a 9% decline in operating profit, primarily reflecting the greater
of sales in 2014 of a number of inventory adjustments, more than contributions to growth from businesses in which there are
offset by reductions in SG&A and R&D from restructuring and significant non-controlling interests.
integration benefits.
Consumer Healthcare
Consumer Healthcare operating profit was £680 million,
66% higher than in 2014 in CER terms on a turnover increase
of 44%. The core operating margin of 11.3% was 0.1 percentage
points lower than in 2014, but improved 1.7 percentage points on
a CER basis. On a pro-forma basis the operating margin increased
1.8 percentage points on a CER basis. This was driven by a
reduction in cost of sales as a percentage of turnover, reflecting
benefits from improved supply and pricing, as well as the delivery
of integration synergies which together more than offset additional
investment behind the growth of target power brands, particularly
in Oral health and Wellness.
64 GSK Annual Report 2015Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
A reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating activities, which
Cash generation and conversion
is the closest equivalent IFRS measure, to free cash flow is shown
below.
A summary of the consolidated cash flow is set out below.
Reconciliation of free and adjusted cash flow 2015 2014
£m £m 2015 2014
Net cash inflow from operating activities 2,569 5,176 £m £m
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities 6,037 (1,078) Net cash inflow from operating activities 2,569 5,176
Net cash outflow from financing activities (7,103) (5,385) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,380) (1,188)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 1,503 (1,287) Purchase of intangible assets (521) (563)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 72 39
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 4,028 5,231
Interest paid (762) (707)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 1,503 (1,287)
Interest received 99 63
Exchange adjustments (45) 84
Dividends from associates and joint ventures 5 5
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 5,486 4,028
Distributions to non-controlling interests (237) (205)
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year Free cash flow (155) 2,620
comprise: Legal payments 420 702
Cash and cash equivalents 5,830 4,338 Adjusted free cash flow 265 3,322
Overdrafts (344) (310)
5,486 4,028 Investment appraisal
We have a formal process for assessing potential investment
Adjusted net cash inflow from operating activities 2,989 5,878 proposals in order to ensure decisions are aligned with our overall
strategy. This process includes an assessment of the cash flow
The net cash inflow from operating activities for the year was return on investment (CFROI), as well as its net present value
£2,569 million (2014 – £5,176 million). Excluding legal settlements (NPV) and internal rate of return (IRR) where the timeline for the
of £420 million (2014 – £702 million), adjusted net cash inflow project is very long term. We also consider the impact on earnings
from operating activities was £2,989 million (2014 – £5,878 and credit profile where relevant.
million). This was after payments of non-core restructuring and
integration costs of £1,131 million (2014 – £566 million) and the The discount rate used to perform financial analyses is decided
initial tax payments arising on the sale of the Oncology business internally, to allow determination of the extent to which investments
amounting to £1,071 million, all of which have been funded from cover our cost of capital. For specific investments the discount rate
divestment proceeds. Excluding these items, the adjusted net cash may be adjusted to take into account country or other risk weightings.
inflow from operating activities would have been £5,191 million Capital expenditure and financial investment
(2014 – £6,444 million), a reduction of £1,253 million (19%). Cash payments for tangible and intangible fixed assets amounted
The decrease primarily resulted from the initial impact of the to £1,901 million (2014 - £1,751 million) and disposals realised
Novartis transaction, reflecting the disposal of GSK’s higher £10,554 million (2014 – £594 million). Cash payments to acquire
margin Oncology business and the impact of acquiring the lower equity investments of £82 million (2014 – £83 million) were made
margin Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare businesses as well as in the year and sales of equity investments realised £357 million
lower operating profits, primarily in Global Pharmaceuticals, and (2014 – £205 million).
the impact of negative currency movements in the year. In addition, Future cash flow
the cash payments to Shionogi in relation to the ViiV Healthcare Over the long term, we expect that future cash generated from
contingent consideration liability recognised in operating cash operations will be sufficient to fund our operating and debt
flows increased by £117 million in 2015. The total cash payments servicing costs, normal levels of capital expenditure, obligations
to Shionogi in relation to the ViiV Healthcare contingent under existing licensing agreements, expenditure arising from
consideration liability in 2015 were £159 million, of which restructuring programmes and other routine outflows including tax,
£121 million was recognised in cash flows from operating activities pension contributions and dividends, subject to the ‘Risk factors’
and £38 million was recognised in purchases of businesses within discussed on pages 231 to 240. We may from time to time have
investing cash flows. additional demands for finance, such as for acquisitions and share
Free cash flow repurchases. We have access to other sources of liquidity from
Free cash flow is the amount of cash generated by the business short and long-term capital markets and financial institutions,
after meeting our obligations for interest, tax and dividends paid to in addition to the cash flow from operations, for such needs.
non-controlling interests, and after capital expenditure on property, Working capital
plant and equipment and intangible assets.
2015 2014
2015 2014 Working capital percentage of turnover (%) 23% 22%
£m £m Working capital conversion cycle (days) 191 209
Free cash (outflow)/inflow (155) 2,620
Adjusted free cash flow 265 3,322 Our working capital programme has continued to make progress
with further improvements in the collection of receivables and
Free cash outflow was £155 million for the year. Excluding legal better inventory management.
payments of £420 million (2014 – £702 million), adjusted free cash
The reported working capital conversion cycle days were distorted
flow was £265 million (2014 – £3,322 million). This was after
by a temporary favourable impact of 15 days arising from the
non-core restructuring and integration costs, and the initial tax
Novartis transaction. Excluding this impact, the conversion cycle
payments on the sale of the Oncology business. Excluding these
for 2015 was around 206 days. The reduction of 3 days compared
items, the adjusted free cash inflow would have been £2,467 million
with 2014 was predominantly due to an increase in the
(2014 – £3,888 million). The decrease reflected the same factors as
denominator from increased restructuring costs in 2015 offset
for the net cash inflow from operating activities described above.
by a beneficial impact from exchange, reduced receivables from
improved collections and reduced inventory levels.
GSK Annual Report 2015 65Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
continued
Property, plant and equipment
Financial position and resources
Our business is science-based, technology-intensive and highly
2015 2014 regulated by governmental authorities. We allocate significant
£m £m financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of our property,
Assets plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption of production
Non-current assets and to achieve compliance with regulatory standards. A number
Property, plant and equipment 9,668 9,052 of our processes use chemicals and hazardous materials.
Goodwill 5,162 3,724 The total cost of our property, plant and equipment at
Other intangible assets 16,672 8,320 31 December 2015 was £20,750 million, with a net book value
Investments in associates and joint ventures 207 340 of £9,668 million. Of this, land and buildings represented
£4,117 million, plant and equipment £2,987 million and assets
Other investments 1,255 1,114
in construction £2,564 million. In 2015, we invested £2,134 million
Deferred tax assets 2,905 2,688
in new property, plant and equipment. This was mainly related
Other non-current assets 990 735 to a large number of projects for the renewal, improvement
Total non-current assets 36,859 25,973 and expansion of facilities at various worldwide sites. Property
is mainly held freehold. New investment is financed from our
Current assets
liquid resources. At 31 December 2015, we had contractual
Inventories 4,716 4,231
commitments for future capital expenditure of £659 million and
Current tax recoverable 180 138 operating lease commitments of £789 million. We believe that
Trade and other receivables 5,615 4,600 our facilities are adequate for our current needs.
Derivative financial instruments 125 146 We observe stringent procedures and use specialist skills to
Liquid investments 75 69 manage environmental risks from our activities. Environmental
Cash and cash equivalents 5,830 4,338 issues, sometimes dating from operations now modified or
Assets held for sale 46 1,156 discontinued, are reported under ‘Our planet’ on page 48 and
Total current assets 16,587 14,678 in Note 45 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
Total assets 53,446 40,651 Goodwill
Goodwill increased during the year to £5,162 million at
Liabilities
31 December 2015, from £3,724 million. The increase reflected
Current liabilities
the goodwill arising from the acquired Novartis Vaccines business
Short-term borrowings (1,308) (2,943) and the creation of the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture.
Trade and other payables (9,191) (7,958)
Other intangible assets
Derivative financial instruments (153) (404)
Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles acquired
Current tax payable (1,421) (945)
from third parties and computer software. The net book value
Short-term provisions (1,344) (1,045) of other intangible assets as at 31 December 2015 was
Total current liabilities (13,417) (13,295) £16,672 million (2014 – £8,320 million). The increase in
2015 reflected the impact of acquiring the Vaccines business
Non-current liabilities
(£2,680 million), and the creation of the Consumer Healthcare
Long-term borrowings (15,324) (15,841) Joint Venture (£6,003 million), capitalised development costs of
Deferred tax liabilities (1,522) (445) £217 million, partly offset by the amortisation and impairment of
Pensions and other post-employment benefits (3,229) (3,179) existing intangibles of £738 million and £217 million, respectively.
Other provisions (420) (545)
Investments in associates and joint ventures
Derivative financial instruments – (9) We held investments in associates and joint ventures, with a
Other non-current liabilities (10,656) (2,401) carrying value at 31 December 2015 of £207 million (2014 –
Total non-current liabilities (31,151) (22,420) £340 million). The market value at 31 December 2015 was
Total liabilities (44,568) (35,715) £267 million (2014 – £1,388 million). The largest of these
Net assets 8,878 4,936 investments was in Theravance Inc. (now Innoviva Inc.) which had
a book value at 31 December 2015 of £112 million. The market
Equity value at 31 December 2015 was £229 million. Until 1 September
Share capital 1,340 1,339 2015, Theravance Inc. was accounted for as an equity investment
Share premium account 2,831 2,759 as it was considered that the Group could not exert significant
influence over the company until that point. See Note 20 to the
Retained earnings (1,397) (2,074)
Financial statements ‘Investments in associates and joint ventures’.
Other reserves 2,340 2,239
Shareholders’ equity 5,114 4,263 Other investments
Non-controlling interests 3,764 673 We held other investments with a carrying value at 31 December
2015 of £1,255 million (2014 – £1,114 million). The most
Total equity 8,878 4,936 significant of these investments was in Aspen Pharmacare
Holdings Limited which had a book value at 31 December 2015 of
£383 million. Previously, the investment in Aspen was treated as
an associate but in March 2015 we sold half of our holding
in Aspen and as a result were no longer able to exert significant
influence over the company; the investment has been reported
within Other investments since that date. The other investments
include equity stakes in companies with which we have research
collaborations, which provide access to biotechnology
developments of potential interest and interests in companies
that arise from business divestments.
66 GSK Annual Report 2015Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Derivative financial instruments: assets Other non-current liabilities
We had current derivative financial instruments held at fair value Other non-current liabilities of £10,656 million at 31 December
of £125 million (2014 – £146 million). The majority of this amount 2015 (2014 – £2,401 million) included £3,549 million
related to foreign exchange contracts both designated and not (2014 – £1,619 million) of contingent consideration payable,
designated as accounting hedges. of which £3,110 million (2014 – £1,579 million) was in respect of
the acquisition in 2012 of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint
Inventories
venture, and £398 million was payable to Novartis in relation to
Inventory of £4,716 million increased from £4,231 million in
the Vaccines acquisition during 2015. In addition, £6,287 million
2014. The increase primarily reflected the impact of the Novartis
related to the present value of the estimated amount payable by
acquisition, partly offset by exchange movements.
us in the event of full exercise of Novartis’ right to require us to
Trade and other receivables acquire its 36.5% shareholding in the Consumer Healthcare
Trade and other receivables of £5,615 million increased from Joint Venture.
2014 impacted by the Novartis acquisition, partly offset by
Net debt
exchange movements.
2015 2014
Derivative financial instruments: liabilities £m £m
We held current derivative financial instruments at fair value Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 5,905 4,407
of £153 million (2014 – £404 million, current: £9 million, non-
Borrowings – repayable within one year (1,308) (2,943)
current). This primarily related to foreign exchange contracts both
Borrowings – repayable after one year (15,324) (15,841)
designated and non-designated (inter-company loans and trade
Net debt (10,727) (14,377)
receivables) as accounting hedges.
Trade and other payables At 31 December 2015, net debt was £10.7 billion, compared with
Trade and other payables amounting to £9,191 million increased £14.4 billion at 31 December 2014, comprising gross debt of
from £7,958 million in 2014, reflecting the effect of the Novartis £16.6 billion and cash and liquid investments of £5.9 billion. The
acquisition and an increase in accruals for customer returns and decrease in net debt primarily reflected the impact of the Novartis
rebates. transaction in which we sold our Oncology business for net cash
proceeds of £10.0 billion and paid £3.4 billion, net of cash
Provisions
acquired, to purchase the Novartis Vaccines business.
We carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and
non-current provisions of £3,286 million at 31 December 2015 The first tax payments on the Novartis transaction amounting to
(2014 – £2,035 million) of which £352 million (2014 – £520 £1,071 million have been made. In addition, we sold part of our
million) related to legal and other disputes and £816 million shareholding in Aspen for cash proceeds of £564 million and
(2014 – £527 million) related to the Operational Excellence paid dividends to shareholders of £3,874 million. Net debt also
provision. Provision has been made for legal and other disputes, reflected an exchange loss on the translation of cash held by the
indemnified disposal liabilities, employee related liabilities and Group’s Venezuelan subsidiaries.
the costs of restructuring programmes to the extent that at the
Because of the continuing political and economic uncertainties
balance sheet date a legal or constructive obligation existed and
in Venezuela, at 31 December 2015, we changed the
could be reliably estimated.
exchange rate used to translate our subsidiaries in Venezuela.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits Up to that point, we applied one of the official rates available
We account for pension and other post-employment of VEF 6.3/US$1. At 31 December 2015, this was changed to
arrangements in accordance with IAS 19. The deficits, VEF 199.6/US$1 (VEF 293.4/£1). This change had no significant
net of surpluses before allowing for deferred taxation were impact on the Group income statement, but gave rise to an
£1,584 million (2014 – £1,689 million) on pension arrangements exchange loss on translation of the cash held by the Venezuelan
and £1,387 million (2014 – £1,397 million) on unfunded post- subsidiaries of £94 million.
employment liabilities. The decreases in the deficits were
At 31 December 2015, our cash and liquid investments were held
predominantly driven by higher discount rates that we used to
as follows:
discount the value of the liabilities, partly offset by an increase
in the UK inflation rate together with net obligations acquired 2015 2014
£m £m
as a result of the Novartis transaction. Bank balances and deposits 3,767 3,529
In December 2010, the UK scheme purchased an insurance US Treasury and Treasury repo
contract that will guarantee payment of specified pensioner only money market funds 624 811
liabilities. This contract was valued at £755 million at
Liquidity funds 1,439 –
31 December 2015.
Government securities 75 67
5,905 4,407
Cash and liquid investments of £4.2 billion were held centrally at
31 December 2015.
GSK Annual Report 2015 67Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
continued
Maturity profile of gross debt
£m equivalent
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
2016 2017 2018 2019 2022 2023 2024 2025 2027 2033 2034 2038 2039 2042 2043 2045
GBP bonds EUR bonds USD bonds Other bank borrowings Leases
The analysis of cash and gross debt after the effects of hedging Total equity
is as follows. At 31 December 2015, total equity had increased from
£4,936 million at 31 December 2014 to £8,878 million.
2015 2014
The increase arose from the impact of both operating profits
£m £m
and business and asset disposal profits, partly offset by the
Cash and liquid investments 5,905 4,407
remeasurement of the ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration
Gross debt – fixed (16,129) (17,674)
and the dividends paid in the year.
– floating (502) (1,109)
– non-interest bearing (1) (1) A summary of the movements in equity is set out below.
Net debt (10,727) (14,377) 2015 2014
£m £m
Total equity at beginning of year 4,936 7,812
Movements in net debt Total comprehensive income for the year 7,885 1,081
2015 2014 Dividends to shareholders (3,874) (3,843)
£m £m Ordinary shares issued 73 167
Net debt at beginning of year (14,377) (12,645)
Gain on transfer of net assets
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 1,503 (1,287)
into Consumer Healthcare JV 2,891 –
Increase/(decrease) in liquid investments 2 (1)
Consumer Healthcare JV put option (6,204) –
Net increase in long-term loans – (1,960)
Loss on transfer of equity investment to
Net repayment of short-term loans 2,412 1,709
investment in associate (229) –
Exchange movements (268) (193)
Changes in non-controlling interests 3,370 (86)
Other movements 1 –
Forward contract relating to non-controlling
Net debt at end of year (10,727) (14,377) interest – 21
Shares purchased and cancelled or held
as Treasury shares – (238)
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (99) (95)
Share-based incentive plans 356 326
Tax on share-based incentive plans 10 (4)
Distributions to non-controlling interests (237) (205)
Total equity at end of year 8,878 4,936
The gain on transfer of net assets into the Consumer Healthcare
Joint Venture of £2,891 million reflects the difference between
the book value of the GSK Consumer Healthcare net assets
contributed to the Joint Venture and the fair value applied as
the consideration for the Novartis contributed assets.
The Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture put option of
£6,204 million reflects the recognition of the initial value of
the liability on the Group balance sheet. The changes in non-
controlling interest primarily reflect the recognition of the
Novartis share of the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture.
68 GSK Annual Report 2015Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Share purchases We have entered into a number of research collaborations to
In 2015, the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) develop new compounds with other pharmaceutical companies.
Trusts acquired £99 million of shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc The terms of these arrangements can include upfront fees, equity
(2014 – £245 million). Shares are held by the Trusts to satisfy investments, loans and commitments to fund specified levels of
future exercises of options and awards under the Group share research. In addition, we will often agree to make further payments
option and award schemes. A proportion of the shares held by if future ‘milestones’ are achieved.
the Trusts are in respect of awards where the rules of the scheme
As some of these agreements relate to compounds in the early
require us to satisfy exercises through market purchases rather
stages of development, the potential obligation to make milestone
than the issue of new shares. The shares held by the Trusts are
payments will continue for a number of years if the compounds
matched to options and awards granted.
move successfully through the development process. Generally,
At 31 December 2015, the ESOP Trusts held 30 million the closer the product is to marketing approval, the greater the
(2014 – 53 million) GSK shares against the future exercise probability of success. The amounts shown above within
of share options and share awards. The carrying value of intangible assets represent the maximum that would be paid
£75 million (2014 – £151 million) has been deducted from if all milestones were achieved, and include £5.1 billion which
other reserves. The market value of these shares was relates to externalised projects in the discovery portfolio.
£409 million (2014 – £726 million). A number of new commitments were made in 2015 under
licensing and other agreements, offset by amendments to
During 2015, no shares were repurchased. At 31 December
existing agreements.
2015, we held 491.5 million shares as Treasury shares
(2014 – 491.5 million shares), at a cost of £6,917 million In 2013, we reached an agreement with the trustees of the
(2014 – £6,917 million), which has been deducted from UK pension schemes to make additional contributions over a
retained earnings. three year period, including in 2013, to eliminate the pension
deficit identified at the 31 December 2011 actuarial funding
The company does not expect to make any ordinary share
valuation. If the deficit persists, further contributions would be
repurchases in 2016. No ordinary shares were purchased in
payable in the following four years depending on the level of deficit.
the period 1 January 2016 to 25 February 2016.
The table above includes this commitment but excludes the normal
Commitments and contingent liabilities ongoing annual funding requirement in the UK of approximately
Financial commitments are summarised in Note 40 to the financial £140 million. For further information on pension obligations, see
statements, ‘Commitments’. Other contingent liabilities and Note 28 to the financial statements, ‘Pensions and other post-
obligations in respect of short and long-term debt are set out employment benefits’.
in Note 32 to the financial statements, ‘Contingent liabilities’
Contingent liabilities
and Note 31 to the financial statements, ‘Net debt’.
The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising
Amounts provided for pensions and post-retirement benefits are discounted bills, performance guarantees, letters of credit and
set out in Note 28 to the financial statements, ‘Pensions and other other items arising in the normal course of business, and when
post-employment benefits’. Amounts provided for restructuring they are expected to expire.
programmes and legal, environmental and other disputes are set
out in Note 29 to the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’. Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
£m £m £m £m £m
Contractual obligations and commitments Guarantees 126 94 19 11 2
The following table sets out our contractual obligations and
Other contingent liabilities 74 17 36 5 16
commitments at 31 December 2015 as they fall due for payment.
Total 200 111 55 16 18
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+ In the normal course of business, we have provided various
£m £m £m £m £m
indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals
Loans 16,688 1,285 4,151 1,103 10,149
in which legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen.
Interest on loans 9,282 638 1,135 908 6,601 A provision is made where an outflow of resources is considered
Finance lease obligations 70 23 34 12 1 probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome
Finance lease charges 7 2 2 – 3 of the dispute and this is included in Note 29 to the financial
Operating lease statements, ‘Other provisions’.
commitments 789 191 174 111 313 We provide for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes when
Intangible assets 6,264 339 783 1,294 3,848 an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable
Property, plant & equipment 502 425 76 1 – estimate of the outflow may be made. At 31 December 2015,
Investments 157 61 52 38 6 other than for those disputes where provision has been made,
it was not possible to make a reliable estimate of the potential
Purchase commitments 38 2 24 12 –
outflow of funds that might be required to settle disputes where
Pensions 340 85 170 85 –
the possibility of there being an outflow was more than remote.
Other commitments 191 60 87 44 –
Total 34,328 3,111 6,688 3,608 20,921 The ultimate liability for such matters may vary significantly from
the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of
Commitments in respect of loans and future interest payable
litigation proceedings and negotiations with the relevant tax
on loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect
authorities. This is discussed further in ‘Risk factors’ on pages
of derivatives.
231 to 240 and Notes 14 and 45 to the financial statements,
‘Taxation’ and ‘Legal proceedings’.
GSK Annual Report 2015 69Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
continued
However, following our recent review of the prospects for the ViiV
Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare
Healthcare business, and our conclusion that we intended to retain
ViiV Healthcare, we have decided that the put options held by
Trading profit allocations
Pfizer and Shionogi should now be recognised on the Group’s
Because ViiV Healthcare is a subsidiary of the Group, 100% of
balance sheet. For the liability for the put options to be recognised
its operating results (turnover, operating profit, profit after tax) are
on the Group’s balance sheet, IFRS requires the agreements
included within the Group income statement and a portion of the
giving us the rights to withhold consent to be changed to remove
earnings is allocated to the non-controlling interests owned by
those rights. We have now notified Pfizer and Shionogi that we
the other shareholders, in line with their respective equity
have irrevocably given up these rights and we will recognise the
shareholdings (Pfizer 11.7% and Shionogi 10%). Each of the
liability for the put options on the Group’s balance sheet in 2016.
shareholders, including GSK, is also entitled to preferential
The estimated present value of the liability for the two put options
dividends determined by the performance of certain products that
is approximately £2 billion, after adjustments for the value of the
each shareholder contributed. As the relative performance of these
preferential dividends due to each of the shareholders.
products changes over time, the proportion of the overall earnings
of ViiV Healthcare allocated to each shareholder will change. Consistent with this revised treatment, in 2016 we also expect to
In particular, the increasing sales of Tivicay and Triumeq have a recognise liabilities on the Group’s balance sheet for the future
favourable impact on the proportion of the preferential dividends preferential dividends anticipated to become payable to Pfizer and
that is allocated to us. We were entitled to approximately 80% of Shionogi. The estimated aggregate present value of the liability for
the core earnings of ViiV Healthcare for 2015. The preferential preferential dividends to both Pfizer and Shionogi is approximately
dividends allocated to Pfizer and Shionogi are included in the £170 million.
non-controlling interest line.
Acquisition-related arrangements Critical accounting policies
As part of the agreement reached to acquire Shionogi’s interest
in the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012, we The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance
agreed to pay additional consideration to Shionogi contingent on with IFRS, as adopted for use in the European Union, and also
the performance of the products being developed by that joint with IFRS as issued by the IASB, following the accounting policies
venture, principally dolutegravir. At 31 December 2015, the fair approved by the Board and described in Note 2 to the financial
value of the contingent consideration due, representing the statements, ‘Accounting principles and policies’.
discounted value of the total amount estimated to be payable,
We are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect
was £3,409 million and this has been recognised in the Group’s
the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported
balance sheet with £299 million shown in trade and other payables
in the financial statements. Actual amounts and results could differ
and £3,110 million in other non-current liabilities.
from those estimates.
Payments are made to Shionogi each quarter to reduce the liability
The critical accounting policies, for which information on the
in instalments. The payments are calculated based on the sales
judgements and estimates made is given in Note 3 to the financial
performance of the relevant products in the previous quarter and
statements, ‘Key accounting judgements and estimates’, and in
are reflected in the cash flow statement partly in operating cash
the relevant detailed notes to the financial statements as indicated
flows and partly in purchases of businesses, within investing
below, relate to the following areas:
activities. The part of each payment relating to the original estimate
of the fair value of the contingent consideration on the acquisition • Turnover
of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012 of • Taxation (Note 14)
£659 million is reported in purchases of businesses and the part • Legal and other disputes (Notes 29 and 45)
of each payment relating to the increase in the liability since the • Goodwill and other intangible asset impairments (Notes 18
acquisition is reported within operating cash flows. During 2015, and 19)
these cash payments amounted to £159 million in total, of which • Business combinations (Note 38)
£121 million was reported in operating cash flows and £38 million • Pensions and other post-employment benefits (Note 28).
in purchases of businesses.
Information on the judgements and estimates made in these areas
Exit rights is given in Note 3 to the financial statements, ‘Key accounting
In certain circumstances, Pfizer and Shionogi may require us to judgements and estimates’.
acquire their shareholdings at a price based on the likely valuation
Turnover
of ViiV Healthcare if it were to conduct an initial public offering
In respect of the Turnover accounting policy, our largest business
(IPO). Pfizer may request an IPO of ViiV Healthcare at any time
is US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines, and the US market has
and if either we do not consent to such IPO or an offering is not
the most complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and
completed within nine months, Pfizer could require us to acquire
allowances. The following briefly describes the nature of the
its shareholding. Shionogi may also request GSK to acquire its
arrangements in existence in our US Pharmaceuticals and
shareholding in ViiV Healthcare in certain circumstances and six
Vaccines business:
month windows commencing in 2017, 2020 and 2022.
• We have arrangements with certain indirect customers whereby
Under the original agreements, we had the unconditional right, so
the customer is able to buy products from wholesalers at
long as we made no subsequent distribution to our shareholders,
reduced prices. A chargeback represents the difference
to withhold our consent to the exercise of either of the Pfizer or
between the invoice price to the wholesaler and the indirect
Shionogi put options and, as a result, in accordance with IFRS,
customer’s contractual discounted price. Accruals for estimating
we did not recognise liabilities for these put options on our
chargebacks are calculated based on the terms of each
balance sheet.
agreement, historical experience and product growth rates
70 GSK Annual Report 2015Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
• Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and group A monthly process is operated to monitor inventory levels at
purchasing organisations (GPO) and other direct and indirect wholesalers for any abnormal movements. This process uses gross
customers. These arrangements require the customer to achieve sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party data
certain performance targets relating to the value of product sources and information received from key wholesalers. The aim
purchased, formulary status or pre-determined market shares of this is to maintain inventories at a consistent level from year to
relative to competitors. The accrual for customer rebates is year based on the pattern of consumption.
estimated based on the specific terms in each agreement,
On this basis, US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines inventory levels
historical experience and product growth rates
at wholesalers and in other distribution channels at 31 December
• The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered 2015 were estimated to amount to approximately five weeks of
programme providing assistance to certain poor and vulnerable turnover. This calculation uses third party information, the accuracy
patients. In 1990, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program of which cannot be totally verified, but is believed to be sufficiently
was established to reduce state and federal expenditure reliable for this purpose.
on prescription drugs. In 2010, the Patient Protection and
Legal and other disputes
Affordable Care Act became law. We participate by providing
In respect of the accounting policy for Legal and other disputes,
rebates to states. Accruals for Medicaid rebates are calculated
the following briefly describes the process by which we determine
based on the specific terms of the relevant regulations or the
the level of provision that is necessary.
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 37, ‘Provisions,
• Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage prompt
contingent liabilities and contingent assets’, we provide for
payment. These are accrued for at the time of invoicing and
anticipated settlement costs where an outflow of resources is
adjusted subsequently to reflect actual experience
considered probable and a reliable estimate may be made of the
• We record an accrual for estimated sales returns by applying likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other expenses arising
historical experience of customer returns to the amounts invoiced, from claims against the Group. We may become involved in
together with market related information such as stock levels at significant legal proceedings, in respect of which it is not possible
wholesalers, anticipated price increases and competitor activity. to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect, if any,
that could result from ultimate resolution of the proceedings. In
A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for the US
these cases, appropriate disclosure about such cases would be
Pharmaceuticals business, including Puerto Rico, is as follows:
included in the Annual Report, but no provision would be made.
2014 2013
2015 (restated) (restated) This position could change over time and, therefore, there can be
Margin Margin Margin no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any
£m % £m % £m % legal proceedings will not exceed by a material amount the amount
Gross turnover 8,212 100 7,789 100 8,684 100 of the provisions reported in the Group’s financial statements.
Like many pharmaceutical companies, we are faced with various
Market driven complex product liability, anti-trust and patent litigation, as well as
segments (1,737) (21) (1,260) (16) (1,063) (12) investigations of its operations conducted by various governmental
Government regulatory agencies. Throughout the year, the General Counsel
mandated and state of the Group, as head of the Group’s legal function, and the
programs (1,874) (23) (1,381) (18) (1,194) (14) Senior Vice President and Head of Global Litigation for the Group,
who is responsible for all litigation and government investigations,
Cash discounts (154) (2) (147) (2) (168) (2)
routinely brief the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial
Customer
Officer and the Board of Directors on the significant litigation
returns (79) (1) (59) (1) (64) (1)
pending against the Group and governmental investigations
Prior year of the Group.
adjustments 113 1 156 2 79 1
These meetings, as appropriate, detail the status of significant
Other items (248) (2) (161) (2) (99) (1)
litigation and government investigations and review matters such
Total deductions (3,979) (48) (2,852) (37) (2,509) (29)
as the number of claims notified to us, information on potential
Net turnover 4,233 52 4,937 63 6,175 71 claims not yet notified, assessment of the validity of claims,
progress made in settling claims, recent settlement levels and
Market driven segments consist primarily of Managed Care and
potential reimbursement by insurers.
Medicare plans with which GSK negotiates contract pricing that
is honoured via rebates and chargebacks. Mandated segments The meetings also include an assessment of whether or not
consist primarily of Medicaid and Federal government programs there is sufficient information available for us to be able to make
which receive government mandated pricing via rebates and a reliable estimate of the potential outcomes of the disputes.
chargebacks. Often, external counsel assisting us with various litigation matters
and investigations will also assist in the briefing of the Board and
The balance sheet accruals for rebates, discounts, allowances
senior management. Following these discussions, for those
and returns for the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business are
matters where it is possible to make a reliable estimate of the
managed on a combined basis. At 31 December 2015, the total
amount of a provision, if any, that may be required, the level of
accrual amounted to £1,464 million (2014 – £1,308 million).
provision for legal and other disputes is reviewed and adjusted
as appropriate. These matters are discussed further in Note 45
to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
GSK Annual Report 2015 71Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group financial review
continued
Foreign exchange risk management
Treasury policies
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on internal and
external trade flows are not typically hedged. Our objective is
We report in Sterling and pay dividends out of Sterling profits.
to minimise the exposure of overseas operating subsidiaries to
The role of Corporate Treasury is to monitor and manage our
transaction risk by matching local currency income with local
external and internal funding requirements and financial risks
currency costs where possible. Our internal trading transactions
in support of our strategic objectives. We operate on a global
are matched centrally and we manage inter-company payment
basis, primarily through subsidiary companies, and we manage
terms to reduce foreign currency risk. Foreign currency cash flows
our capital to ensure that our subsidiaries are able to operate as
can be hedged selectively under the management of Treasury and
going concerns and to optimise returns to shareholders through
the TMG. These include hedges of the foreign exchange risk
an appropriate balance of debt and equity. Treasury activities are
arising from acquisitions and disposals of assets. Where possible,
governed by policies approved annually by the Board of Directors,
we manage the cash surpluses or borrowing requirements of
and most recently on 8 July 2015. A Treasury Management Group
subsidiary companies centrally using forward contracts to hedge
(TMG) meeting, chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, takes place
future repayments back into the originating currency.
on a monthly basis to review treasury activities. Its members receive
management information relating to these activities. In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, we seek
to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our principal assets
Treasury operations
and cash flows. These are primarily denominated in US dollars,
The objective of our treasury activity is to minimise the post-tax
Euros and Sterling. Certain borrowings can be swapped into other
net cost of financial operations and reduce its volatility in order
currencies as required.
to benefit earnings. We use a variety of financial instruments to
finance our operations and derivative financial instruments to Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies
manage market risks from these operations. These derivatives, that match investments in overseas Group assets may be treated
principally comprising forward foreign currency contracts, foreign as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward contracts in major
currency options and interest rate swaps, are used to swap currencies are also used to reduce exposure to our investment in
borrowings and liquid assets into currencies required for Group overseas Group assets. The TMG reviews the ratio of borrowings
purposes and to manage exposure to financial risks from changes to assets for major currencies monthly.
in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Counterparty risk management
We do not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes We set global counterparty limits for each of our banking and
and our Treasury policies specifically prohibit such activity. All investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings from
transactions in financial instruments are undertaken to manage Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Corporate Treasury’s usage of
the risks arising from underlying business activities, not for these limits is monitored daily by a Corporate Compliance Officer
speculation. (CCO) who operates independently of Corporate Treasury. Any
breach of these limits would be reported to the CFO immediately.
Capital management
Our financial strategy, implemented through our Financial The CCO also monitors the credit rating of these counterparties
architecture, supports the Group’s strategic priorities and it is and, when changes in ratings occur, notifies Corporate Treasury
regularly reviewed by the Board. We manage the capital structure so that changes can be made to investment levels or to authority
of the Group through an appropriate mix of debt and equity. limits as appropriate. In addition, relationship banks and their credit
ratings are reviewed regularly and a report is presented annually to
Our long-term credit rating with Standard and Poor’s is A+
the TMG for approval.
(stable outlook) and with Moody’s Investor Services (‘Moody’s’)
is A2 (negative outlook). Our short-term credit ratings are A-1
and P-1 with Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.
Liquidity risk management
Our policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated Strategic report
funding requirements. Our cash flow forecasts and funding
requirements are monitored by the TMG on a monthly basis. The Strategic report was approved by the Board of Directors on
Our strategy is to diversify liquidity sources using a range of 16 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
facilities and to maintain broad access to funding markets.
Each day, we sweep cash from a number of global subsidiaries
to central Treasury accounts for liquidity management purposes.
Interest rate risk management
Simon Dingemans
Chief Financial Officer
Our objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost and
16 March 2016
to balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates over
time. The policy on interest rate risk management limits the amount
of floating interest payments to a prescribed percentage of
operating profit.
72 GSK Annual Report 2015GSK Annual Report 2015 73
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Governance &
remuneration
In this section
Our Board 74
Our Corporate Executive Team 78
Board governance 80
Corporate governance framework 82
Committee reports
Audit & Risk 88
Nominations 95
Corporate Responsibility 98
Remuneration report
Chairman’s annual statement 102
Annual report on remuneration 103
Remuneration policy summary 127
GSK Annual Report 2015 7374 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our Board
Sir Philip Hampton 62 Skills and experience
Non-Executive Chairman Prior to joining GSK, Sir Philip chaired major FTSE 100 companies
including The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and J Sainsbury plc.
Nationality
He has also served as Group Finance Director at Lloyds TSB Group, British
BT Group plc, BG Group plc, British Gas and British Steel plc.
Appointment date Sir Philip was previously appointed an Executive Director of Lazards
1 January 2015. Deputy and a Non-Executive Director at RMC Group Plc and Belgacom SA.
Chairman from 1 April 2015 Until 2009, he was Chairman of UK Financial Investments Limited,
and Non-Executive Chairman which manages the UK Government’s shareholdings in banks.
from 7 May 2015
External appointments
Committee membership Sir Philip is currently the Senior Independent Director of Anglo
Nominations Committee American Plc, Chairman of its Remuneration Committee and
Chairman, Finance member of its Audit Committee. Sir Philip is also Chair of the
Women on Board’s review; an independent review on increasing
representation of women in the executive level of FTSE 350
companies.
Sir Andrew Witty 51 Skills and experience
Chief Executive Officer Sir Andrew joined GSK in 1985. He has worked in the UK, South
Africa, the US and Singapore in various senior roles. In 2003,
Nationality
he was appointed President of Europe and joined GSK’s Corporate
British
Executive Team. Andrew has served in numerous advisory roles to
Appointment date Governments around the world including South Africa, Singapore,
31 January 2008 and as Guangzhou China and the UK, where he was a member of the
Chief Executive Officer Prime Minister’s Business Advisory Group from 2010-2015. He
on 21 May 2008 was awarded a Knighthood for services to the economy and to the
UK pharmaceutical industry in the 2012 New Year Honours List.
Committee membership
Finance External appointments
Sir Andrew is appointed to the UK Business Ambassador Group, the
China-Britain Business Council Advisory Council and the School of
Economics & Management Advisory Board (SEM), Tsinghua University,
Beijing, China. Sir Andrew is Chancellor of the University of Nottingham.
Simon Dingemans 52 Skills and experience
Chief Financial Officer Prior to joining GSK, Simon had over 25 years of experience in
investment banking at SG Warburg and Goldman Sachs. During this
Nationality
time, he advised a broad range of large corporates across a number of
British
industry sectors, including pharmaceuticals and consumer healthcare.
Appointment date Simon advised GSK for over a decade before his appointment and
4 January 2011 and as Chief was closely involved in a number of GSK’s key strategic projects.
Financial Officer on 1 April 2011
External appointments
Committee membership Simon is Chairman of the 100 Group of Finance Directors.
Finance
Dr Moncef Slaoui 56 Skills and experience
Chairman, Global Vaccines Moncef joined GSK Vaccines in 1988 where he engineered the
development of a robust vaccines pipeline. He then led Worldwide
Nationality
Business Development for pharmaceutical products before his
Moroccan, Belgian & American
appointment to lead R&D in 2006. He was given overall responsibility
Appointment date for GSK’s Oncology Business in 2010; for GSK Vaccines in 2011;
17 May 2006 and for all Global Franchises in 2012. Moncef has advised the US
President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology and he
Committee membership
was a member of the Board of the Agency for Science, Technology
Finance
& Research (A*STAR) until January 2011.
He has a PhD in Molecular Biology and Immunology from Université
Libre de Bruxelles and has published more than 100 scientific papers
and presentations. Prior to joining GSK, Moncef was Professor of
Immunology at the University of Mons, Belgium.
External appointments
Moncef is a member of the Biotechnology Industry Organization Board
in the US and a member of the Advisory Committee to the Director
of National Institutes of Health. He is also an adviser to the Qatar
Foundation, and a member of the Qatar Biomedical Research Institute
Scientific Advisory Committee. Moncef serves as a Non-Executive
Director for the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI).GSK Annual Report 2015 75
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Sir Deryck Maughan 68 Skills and experience
Senior Independent Sir Deryck has a wealth of international corporate and investment
Non-Executive Director banking experience, having previously served as Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer of Citigroup International and of Salomon Nationality
Brothers Inc. He served as Vice Chairman of the New York Stock
British
Exchange from 1996 to 2000. Sir Deryck was a former Senior Adviser
Appointment date to, and Partner of, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co and previously served
1 June 2004 and as Senior as a Non-Executive Director of Thomson Reuters.
Independent Non-Executive
External appointments
Director on 1 May 2013
Sir Deryck is a Non-Executive Director of BlackRock, Inc. and a
Committee membership Trustee of the British Museum.
Audit & Risk, Nominations,
Remuneration and Finance
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 68 Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Professor Sir Roy is a world-renowned medical scientist with advanced
Director & Scientific Expert knowledge of infectious disease epidemiology, and is currently
Professor of Infectious Disease in the Faculty of Medicine, Imperial
Nationality
College, London. He is a fellow of the Royal Society, the Academy of
British
Medical Sciences and the Royal Statistical Society. He is an Honorary
Appointment date Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries and a Foreign Associate Member
1 October 2007 of the National Academy of Medicine at the US National Academy of
Sciences and the French Academy of Sciences. Professor Sir Roy
Committee membership
brings scientific expertise to the Board’s deliberations.
Nominations and Finance
External appointments
Professor Sir Roy is a member of the International Advisory Board of
Holdingham Group and Chairman of the Science Advisory Board of the
Natural History Museum, London. He is also a member of the Vaccine
International Advisory Board (VACCIAB) of AJ Pharma Holding Sdn.
Bhd in Malaysia.
Manvinder Singh (Vindi) Skills and experience
Banga 61 Prior to joining GSK, Vindi spent 33 years at Unilever plc, where his
Independent Non-Executive last role (amongst several senior positions) was President of the Global
Director Foods, Home and Personal Care businesses, and he was a member of
the Unilever Executive Board. Vindi sat on the Prime Minister of India’s
Nationality
Council of Trade & Industry from 2004 to 2014, and was on the Board
Indian
of Governors of the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Ahmedabad.
Appointment date
Vindi is also the recipient of the Padma Bhushan, one of India’s highest
1 September 2015
civilian honours.
Committee membership
External appointments
Audit & Risk, Nominations,
Vindi is a partner at private equity investment firm Clayton Dubilier &
Remuneration and Finance
Rice. He is also Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Mauser Group,
Senior Independent Director of Marks & Spencer Group plc, and a
member of its Nominations and Remuneration Committees. He is also
a Non-Executive Director of Thompson Reuters Corp and a member
of its HR Committee. Vindi is on the Governing Board of the Indian
School of Business (ISB), Hyderabad.
Dr Stephanie Burns 61 Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Stephanie is a recognised global business leader, having served as
Director Chairman, President and CEO of Dow Corning Corporation until her
retirement at the end of 2011. She has a strong scientific background,
Nationality
with a PhD in organic chemistry with an organosilicon speciality, and
American
is an advocate for science education. Stephanie previously sat on the
Appointment date US President’s Export Council and was an Officer of the Society of
12 February 2007 Chemical Industry, American Section, as well as the past Honorary
President of the UK-based parent society. Stephanie was also an
Committee membership
Officer and Chairman of the American Chemistry Council.
Corporate Responsibility,
Remuneration and Finance External appointments
Stephanie is a Non-Executive Director of Corning Inc. and of
Kellogg Company, and was appointed to the Board of HP Inc.
in November 2015.76 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our Board
continued
Stacey Cartwright 52 Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Stacey is a Chartered Accountant and has significant experience of
Director global consumer businesses and of corporate finance. She served as
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Burberry Group plc Nationality
until July 2013. Prior to joining Burberry Group plc in 2004, Stacey held
British
the role of Chief Financial Officer at Egg plc between 1999 and 2003,
Appointment date and from 1988 to 1999 she worked in various finance-related positions
1 April 2011 at Granada Group plc.
Committee membership The Board has determined that Stacey has recent and relevant financial
Audit & Risk and Finance experience, and agreed that she has the appropriate qualifications and
background to be an audit committee financial expert.
External appointments
Stacey is Chief Executive Officer of Harvey Nichols Group of Companies.
Lynn Elsenhans 59 Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Lynn has a wealth of experience of running a global business and
Director significant knowledge of the global markets in which GSK operates.
She served as Chair, President and Chief Executive Officer of Sunoco
Nationality
Inc. from 2009 to 2012. Prior to joining Sunoco in 2008 as President and
American
Chief Executive Officer, Lynn worked for Royal Dutch Shell which she
Appointment date joined in 1980 and where she held a number of senior roles, including
1 July 2012 Executive Vice President, Global Manufacturing from 2005 to 2008.
Committee membership External appointments
Corporate Responsibility Lynn is a Non-Executive Director of Baker Hughes Inc. and
Committee Chairman, Flowserve Corporation, a Director of the Texas Medical Center,
Audit & Risk, Nominations and a Non-Executive Director of The First Tee of Greater Houston.
and Finance She is also a Trustee of the United Way of Greater Houston.
Dr Jesse Goodman 64 Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Dr Goodman previously served in senior leadership positions at the US
Director & Scientific Expert Food and Drug Administration (FDA), including most recently as FDA’s
Chief Scientist and previously as Deputy Commissioner for Science
Nationality
and Public Health and as Director of the Center for Biologics Evaluation
American
and Research (CBER).
Appointment date
Dr Goodman played a leadership role in developing FDA’s Regulatory
1 January 2016
Science and Medical Countermeasures Initiatives and has worked
Committee membership collaboratively with industry, academia, government and global public
Finance health and regulatory partners to prepare for and respond to major
public health threats, including emerging infectious diseases, disasters
and terrorism. He led FDA’s response to West Nile Virus and to the
2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic and served on the Senior Leadership
Team for the 2010 White House Medical Countermeasure Review.
Dr Goodman brings scientific and public health expertise to the
Board’s deliberations.
External appointments
Dr Goodman, currently Professor of Medicine at Georgetown University,
directs the Georgetown University Center on Medical Product Access,
Safety and Stewardship (COMPASS) and is an active clinician who serves
as Attending Physician in Infectious Diseases. He also serves as President
and Member of the Board of the United States Pharmacopeia (USP).
Judy Lewent 67 Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Judy has extensive knowledge of the global pharmaceutical industry and
Director of corporate finance, having joined Merck & Co. in 1980 and then served
as Chief Financial Officer from 1990 to 2007 when she retired. Judy
Nationality
was previously a Non-Executive Director of Purdue Pharma Inc, Napp
American
Pharmaceutical Holdings Limited and certain Mundipharma International
Appointment date Limited companies until 31 December 2014. Judy previously served as
1 April 2011 a Non-Executive Director of Dell Inc. and Quaker Oats Company.
Committee membership The Board has determined that Judy has recent and relevant financial
Audit & Risk Committee experience, and agreed that she has the appropriate qualifications and
Chairman, Nominations, background to be an audit committee financial expert.
Remuneration and Finance
External appointments
Judy is a Non-Executive Director of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and
Motorola Solutions Inc. She is also a Trustee of the Rockefeller Family Trust
and Chairperson of the Audit Committee of Rockefeller Financial Services,
a life member of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Corporation
and a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.GSK Annual Report 2015 77
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Dr Daniel Podolsky 62 Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Daniel is a world-renowned researcher who has advanced knowledge
Director & Scientific Expert of underlying mechanisms of disease and new therapies for
gastrointestinal disorders. He was formerly Mallinckrodt Professor Nationality
of Medicine and Chief of Gastroenterology at Massachusetts General
American
Hospital and Harvard Medical School, and previously served as the
Appointment date Chief Academic Officer of Partners Healthcare System. Daniel’s
1 July 2006 current responsibilities in leading a large academic medical centre
give him relevant insight into healthcare delivery. Daniel brings scientific
Committee membership
expertise to the Board and the Audit & Risk Committee’s deliberations.
Audit & Risk, Corporate
Responsibility and Finance External appointments
Daniel is President of the University of Texas Southwestern
Medical Center and holds the Philip O’Bryan Montgomery, Jr., M.D.
Distinguished Presidential Chair in Academic Administration, and the
Doris and Bryan Wildenthal Distinguished Chair in Medical Science.
He is a member of the National Academy of Medicine at the US
National Academy of Sciences, member of the Board of the
Southwestern Medical Foundation and a Director of Antibe
Therapeutics, Inc.
He is also a member of the National Academies of Sciences Board
on Army Science and Technology.
Urs Rohner 56 Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Urs has a broad range of business and legal experience having served
Director as Chairman on a number of Boards, most recently for Credit Suisse,
a world leading financial services company. Prior to joining Credit
Nationality
Suisse in 2004, Urs served as Chairman of the Executive Board and
Swiss
CEO of ProSieben and ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG. This followed a
Appointment date number of years in private practice at major law firms in Switzerland
1 January 2015 and the US, having been admitted to the bars of the canton of Zurich in
1986 and the state of New York in 1990.
Committee membership
Remuneration Committee External appointments
Chairman and Finance Urs is currently appointed Chairman of the Board of Credit Suisse
Group AG and of the Chairman’s and Governance Committee.
He is also appointed Chairman and member of the Board of Trustees
of Credit Suisse Research Institute and Credit Suisse Foundation.
Urs was appointed Vice-Chairman of the Governing Board of the
Swiss Bankers Association in 2015.
Hans Wijers 65 Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Hans has a broad range of business, economic and political
Director experience, having served as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman
at Akzo Nobel NV from 2002 to 2012. Hans had a long and
Nationality
distinguished career in academia, public service and strategy
Dutch
consulting. He served as Senior Partner of the Boston Consulting
Appointment date Group from 1998 to 2002.
1 April 2013
External appointments
Committee membership Hans is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Heineken NV and also
Corporate Responsibility, Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Director of Royal Dutch Shell.
Remuneration and Finance He is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of AFC Ajax and member
of the Supervisory Board of HAL Holding N.V.78 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our Corporate Executive Team
Our CEO, with the assistance of the Corporate Executive Team, is responsible for
the management of the business, developing the Group’s strategic direction for
consideration and approval by the Board and implementing the agreed strategy.
Sir Andrew Witty Simon Dingemans Dr Moncef Slaoui
Chief Executive Officer* Chief Financial Officer* Chairman, Global Vaccines*
*For biographical details, see page 74.
Roger Connor Nick Hirons Abbas Hussain
President, Global Manufacturing & Supply Senior Vice President, Global Ethics and President, Global Pharmaceuticals
Compliance
Roger joined CET in 2012 and was appointed Abbas joined CET in 2008 and was appointed
as President, Global Manufacturing & Supply Nick was appointed to CET in September President, Global Pharmaceuticals in October
(GMS) in 2013, after working for a year as 2014 as Senior Vice President, Global Ethics 2014, having joined the company as President,
President Designate, GMS. and Compliance and is responsible for Emerging Markets & Asia Pacific in June 2008.
compliance, risk management and corporate He joined the ViiV Healthcare Ltd. Board in
Roger joined GSK in 1998 from AstraZeneca
security and investigations. October 2009.
and has worked in finance and manufacturing
strategy roles, including at GSK sites in Cork Nick joined GSK in 1994 as an International Previously, he spent 20 years at Eli Lilly where
in Ireland and Ware in the UK. Prior to his Auditor in the UK. He was later Head of Audit he held positions including President, Europe
position in GMS, Roger was Vice President, & Assurance, where he combined five and before that Vice President, Europe. He
Office of the CEO and Corporate Strategy, separate audit functions into an independent also held positions with Eli Lilly in Australia,
from February 2010. team operating with a common risk-based the US, India, Turkey and Germany in several
methodology. In June 2013, Nick took up a roles including business development, sales
He holds a degree in Mechanical and
role in China, where he established a new and marketing, and management.
Manufacturing Engineering from Queen’s
governance model for our China business that
University Belfast and a Masters in He has a degree in Medicinal Chemistry &
created a consistent approach to compliance.
Manufacturing Leadership from Cambridge Pharmacology from Loughborough University
University. He is also a Chartered Accountant. Nick is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of and was born in Madras, India.
Management Accountants.GSK Annual Report 2015 79
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
David Redfern Claire Thomas Phil Thomson
Chief Strategy Officer Senior Vice President, Human Resources Senior Vice President, Communications and
Government Affairs
David joined CET as Chief Strategy Officer Claire was appointed to CET as Senior Vice
in May 2008 and is responsible for corporate President, Human Resources in May 2008. Phil joined CET in 2011 and was appointed
development and strategic planning. In Senior Vice President, Communications
Claire joined the company in 1996 as Senior
addition, he was appointed Chairman of the and Government Affairs in 2014. He has Manager, Human Resources, Sales and
Board of ViiV Healthcare Ltd. in April 2011 responsibility for Media Relations, Investor
Marketing Group, UK Pharmaceuticals before
and a Non-Executive Director of the Aspen Relations, Corporate Responsibility, Internal
becoming Director of Human Resources for
Pharmacare Ltd. Board in February 2015. Communications, Product Communications,
UK Pharmaceuticals in 1997. She was
Government Affairs and GSK’s Global Brand.
Previously, he was Senior Vice President, appointed Senior Vice President, Human
Northern Europe with responsibility for GSK’s Resources, Pharmaceuticals Europe in 2001, He joined Glaxo Wellcome as a trainee in 1996,
pharmaceutical businesses in that region and, and Senior Vice President Human Resources moving from pharmaceutical brand marketing to
prior to that, was Senior Vice President for International in 2006. product communications. In 1999, he became
Central and Eastern Europe. David joined Director of Media Relations for Glaxo Wellcome
Prior to joining the company she worked
GSK in 1994 and was Finance Director of plc and was then Director, Investor Relations
for Ford Motor Company, holding various
the European business from 1999 to 2002. from 2001 to 2004, when he returned to
positions in Human Resources.
Corporate Media Relations as Vice President.
David has a Bachelor of Science degree from
Claire has a Bachelor of Science degree Phil has worked on numerous corporate,
Bristol University in the UK and is a Chartered
in Economics, Management and Industrial product and reputational matters at GSK.
Accountant.
Relations from the University of Wales.
Phil earned his degree in English and History
from Durham University.
Dan Troy Patrick Vallance Emma Walmsley
Senior Vice President & General Counsel President, Pharmaceuticals R&D CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare
Dan joined GSK and the CET as Senior Patrick joined CET in 2010 and was Emma is CEO of GSK Consumer Healthcare,
Vice President & General Counsel in appointed President, Pharmaceuticals R&D, which includes the joint venture with Novartis
September 2008. in January 2012. Prior to this he was Senior and the listed Consumer Healthcare
Vice President, Medicines Discovery and businesses in India and Nigeria. The business
He was previously a Partner at the
Development. is split almost equally between OTC
Washington law firm Sidley Austin LLP,
medicines and fast moving consumer goods
where he represented mainly pharmaceutical Patrick joined the company in 2006 as Head
brands, across four categories of Wellness,
companies and trade associations on matters of Drug Discovery. Prior to joining GSK
Oral health, Nutrition and Skin health.
related to the US Food and Drug Patrick was a clinical academic and led the
Administration (FDA) and government Division of Medicine at University College Prior to this Emma was President of GSK
regulations. Dan was formerly Chief Counsel London. He has over 20 years’ experience Consumer Healthcare and has been a
for the FDA, where he served as a primary of research clinical medicine, general internal member of CET since 2011. She joined
liaison to the White House and the US medicine, cardiovascular medicine and clinical GSK in 2010.
Department of Health and Human Services. pharmacology. He was elected to the
Prior to this, Emma worked with L’Oreal for
Academy of Medical Sciences in 1999.
Dan is a graduate from Cornell University’s 17 years. She has a degree in Classics and
School of Industrial and Labor Relations, Patrick has been on the Board of the UK Modern Languages from Oxford University.
and earned his law degree from Columbia Office for Strategic Co-ordination of Health
Emma became a non-executive director of
University School of Law. Dan was named Research (OSCHR) since 2009.
Diageo plc with effect from 1 January 2016.
a ‘Legend in the Law’ at the Burton Awards.Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Corporate governance
Board governance
Our strategy and progress towards its delivery are set out in the Strategic Report. The following pages provide information about the Board
and its oversight of the Group’s activities during 2015.
The Board
The Board is pleased to report that in 2015 it was in full compliance with the requirements of the Financial Reporting Council’s (FRC)
UK Corporate Governance Code (Code), with the exception of Code provision C.3.7. which requires audit contract tenders to be
undertaken at least every 10 years. Page 92 sets out the details of this year’s audit contract tender process. A copy of the Code is
available on the FRC’s website, www.frc.org.uk
The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the company and is accountable to our shareholders for ensuring that the Group is
appropriately managed and governed. We believe that our governance structure provides the right base to help us deliver our strategy to
Grow a diversified business, Deliver more products of value and Simplify our operating model, and in doing so create additional long-term
value for our shareholders.
2015 Board programme
The Board met face to face six times in 2015 and each Board member attended all scheduled Board meetings.
The Board agendas were shaped to create more time for strategic discussion and debate by closely managing time allocated to routine items
to ensure focused consideration of our strategic priorities. During 2015, the agendas for Board meetings included the following business:
Month Strategy Board and risk oversight* Governance
January • Review of CEO objectives 2014 • Review of 2014 financial results • Secretary’s Report (including
and 2015 and outlook for 2015 regulatory and governance updates)
• Review of 2014 investor activity • Re-appointment of auditors
and 2015 activity • Novartis transaction update
• Approval of 2015 Budget and
2015-2017 Plan
March • Review of reshaped Consumer • Review financial results for the • Secretary’s Report (including
Healthcare and Global Pharmaceuticals year to date regulatory and governance updates)
businesses • Ebola Vaccines update • Mandatory annual Corporate Integrity
• ‘Deep Dive’ – US Pharmaceuticals Agreement (CIA) training
pricing and formulary access
May • Review revised 2015-20 Plan and • Review of financial results for the • Secretary’s Report (including
long range forecasting following year to date regulatory and governance updates)
completion of Novartis transaction • Global Manufacturing & Supply • Preparation for AGM
annual update
• Novartis transaction update
• Review Annual CIA agreement
compliance resolutions
July • Annual Review of Talent and Leadership • R eview of financial results for the • Secretary’s Report (including
Development strategy year to date regulatory and governance updates)
• Review of funding strategy and • Vaccines annual update (including
treasury policy integration and pipeline)
• Review of Pensions and Insurance
strategies
• Proposed agenda for annual
Board & CET Strategy meeting
• Review of Going Concern assumptions
October • A nnual Board & CET strategy meeting • R eview of financial results for the • Secretary’s Report (including regulatory
• Review of output from the annual year to date and governance updates)
Board & CET strategy meeting • R&D annual update
• Quality update
• N ew Healthcare professional (HCP)
model update
December • Review of 2016 Budget and • R eview of financial results for the • Secretary’s Report (including regulatory
2016-2018 Plan year to date and governance updates)
• Supply Chain update
• Nucala launch plans
• Pricing update
* D uring the year, all Board members were invited to attend the Audit & Risk Committee meetings where risk matters were routinely discussed.
80 GSK Annual Report 2015GSK Annual Report 2015 81
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Board governance continued
2015 Board performance action points
Progress against the conclusions of the 2014 Board evaluation review, independently facilitated by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom
Review Limited, is set out below:
Key findings/Action points Progress/Achievement
The composition of the Board is due to change over the next two to three years which A Board composition assessment exercise
will require a carefully planned and thoughtfully executed refreshment programme. has been undertaken to enable the
Nominations Committee to plan for the Board
The Chairman Designate, together with the Nominations Committee, will seek to enhance the
changes due to occur in the next few years
governance processes relating to Board composition, tenure and size.
and to ensure that the Board has the
They will review and seek to develop objective specifications and plans for all the Board’s roles necessary skills.
in alignment with our strategy, the external landscape, and the company’s evolving circumstances.
The Directors have identified gaps in the Board’s current composition relating to US The Board was pleased that Vindi Banga and
pricing and healthcare, emerging markets and consumer healthcare knowledge. Dr Jesse Goodman, as SID designate and
SME respectively, agreed to join the Board.
Closing these knowledge and experience gaps will be considered as part of the process of
Their appointments have helped to fill the
recruitment of new Non-Executive Directors combined with the refreshment of designated
identified skills gaps. The Nominations
specialist roles on the Board, such as scientific and medical expertise (SME) and the Senior
Committee continues to refresh the Board
Independent Director (SID).
to meet the Company’s future needs.
Given the speed and complexity of the external landscape changes, and potential for Such characteristics have been factored
surprises, highly experienced Non-Executive Directors are a crucial component of the into the individual search profiles and selection
Board’s composition. process to recruit new Non-Executive
Directors.
The critical skill sets of potential candidates, such as international markets and cultural
experience, crisis and stakeholder management, will be considered and the composition
choices of peer group Boards will be benchmarked.
The replacement of the current SID who is due to retire at the 2016 AGM is a priority issue. Vindi Banga, whose background and
experience fulfilled the requirements of our
The Chairman Designate is leading the search involving internal and external candidates for
SID specification was appointed as SID
this role.
designate in September 2015 and will
A SID specification is being developed that balances the replacement of existing knowledge succeed Sir Deryck Maughan, our current SID,
with the ability to work well with the Chairman Designate, conduct robust Board evaluations, at the conclusion of our 2016 AGM.
interact well with shareholders and be able to commit the necessary time to the role.
Consideration should be given to reducing the size of the Board, if it is judged to have a The Board has, on the recommendation of
strong enough composition and dynamic. the Nominations Committee, agreed and is
working towards an ideal Board size of around
This aspiration will be considered against a refreshed Board competence/skills matrix that is
12 directors.
being used as part of the Board refreshment programme, and is linked to the company’s strategy.
Consideration should be given to enhancing the Non-Executive Director evaluation process. The Chairman concluded this review and
agreed to introduce peer evaluation to further
The Chairman Designate will lead this process and consider best practice techniques, such as
inform his annual review meetings with each
a combination of annual individual and peer evaluations.
Board director.
Board performance action points for 2016
The agreed action points arising from the 2015 Board evaluation review, internally facilitated by our Company Secretary, Victoria Whyte,
against which progress will be disclosed in GSK’s 2016 Annual Report, are set out below:
Executive succession Deep dives and Board materials
Strategy and NED refreshment sites visits Shareholders and logistics
Assist newer Directors Further increase the focus Consider further deep Review and look to Continue the drive to make
with additional background on executive succession dives particularly on: further enhance how the Board/Committee materials
briefing materials ahead of plans and ensure the R&D strategy and pipeline, company communicates more concise and also
debates on strategy. effectiveness of the product launches, with shareholders. effective in highlighting
disaster recovery plan. US pricing, joint ventures, issues and concerns.
Arrange more regular
new business models
discussion of medium and Consider alternative Aim to have less
and GMS.
longer term strategy with suggestions for Non- presentation time and
fresh insights from different Executive Director Consider holding one site more time for discussion
perspectives. refreshment. visit to an operational site and debate at meetings.
each year.
Implement suggestions Allow for social time for
to further enhance the Board members to get to
effectiveness of the annual know each other better
Board & CET strategy given the number of new
meetings. Board members.82 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Corporate governance
continued
Corporate governance framework
The Board has a coherent corporate governance framework with clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities designed to
safeguard and enhance long-term shareholder value and provide a robust platform to realise the Group’s strategy to Grow, Deliver
and Simplify. Our internal control and risk management arrangements, which are described on pages 16 to 17, and 85 to 86, are
an integral part of GSK’s governance framework.
Board Committees
For the Board to operate effectively and to give full consideration to key matters, Board Committees have been established by
the Board. A summary of the role of each Board Committee is set out in the table below. The full terms of reference of each Committee
are available on www.gsk.com and reports on the membership of, and work undertaken by, the Audit & Risk, Nominations, Corporate
Responsibility and Remuneration Committees during 2015 are given on pages 88 to 126.
Board Chief Executive
Officer
Corporate
Executive
Team
Corporate
Corporate Administration
Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Responsibility Finance & Transactions
Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee
Reviews and Reviews and Reviews and Reviews: Reviews and Reviews and
responsible for: recommends to recommends to External issues that approves: approves:
Financial and internal the Board: the Board: have the potential for Annual Report Matters in
reporting processes, The overall executive The structure, size serious impact upon and Form 20-F, connection with
integrity of the remuneration policy and composition of GSK’s business convening of the the administration
financial statements, with reference to the the Board and the Reputation AGM and the of the Group’s
including the remuneration of all appointment of management quarterly results business and
Annual Report, and employees Directors, Committee announcements certain corporate
Annual governance
quarterly results The appropriate fees members and CET oversight of GSK’s Certain major transactions
announcements, for the Chairman members responsible business licensing and capital
system of internal Succession to the commitments transactions and
controls, Determines: Board and the CET changes to the
identification and Terms of service Group’s investment
management and remuneration of instrument and
of risks and external Executive Directors counterparty limits
and internal audit and other members
processes of the CET
Initiating audit
tenders, the Reviews and
selection and approves:
appointment of The Remuneration
external auditors, report
their remuneration
and oversight of
their workGSK Annual Report 2015 83
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Leadership and effectiveness
The Chairman The role of the Chairman is to lead and manage the business of the Board and to provide direction and
focus, while ensuring that there is a clear structure for the effective operation of the Board and its Committees.
He sets the agenda for Board discussions to promote effective and constructive debate and to support
a sound decision-making process.
Sir Philip Hampton, who succeeded Sir Christopher Gent as Chairman on 7 May 2015, works closely with the
Chief Executive Officer, Sir Andrew Witty, to ensure that the strategies and actions agreed by the Board are
effectively implemented. He also provides support and advice to Sir Andrew, while respecting his executive
responsibility for managing the Group. The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO
has been agreed by the Board and is set out in the governance section of our website.
Sir Philip satisfied the FRC Code’s independence test on his appointment to the Board, and is responsible
to shareholders for the performance of the Group and leads discussions with them.
Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors provide a strong, independent element on the Board. They are well placed to
constructively challenge and support management and to shape proposals on strategy and succession planning.
Between them, they bring independent judgement and a breadth of skills and experience gained at the most
senior levels of international business operations and academia.
Each Non-Executive Director has a letter of appointment which sets out the terms and conditions of his
or her directorship.
All our Non-Executive Directors are expected to devote such time as is necessary for the proper performance
of their duties. No precise timings are given as this will vary from year to year depending on the company’s
activities. They are expected to attend all Board meetings, and any additional meetings as required.
The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors, including those with tenure of more than nine years,
to demonstrate an appropriate degree of independence in character and judgement and to be free from
any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
The independence and commitment of those Non-Executive Directors who have served on the Board
for over six years was subjected to a rigorous review.
Senior Independent Sir Deryck Maughan has been our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director (SID) since 1 May 2013.
Non-Executive Director Sir Deryck’s role is to act as a sounding board for the Chairman and a trusted intermediary for the other
Directors. The SID also works on the process for the selection of a new Chairman, as appropriate, and chairs
the Nominations Committee when agreeing the recommendation to the Board for the Chairman’s successor.
Sir Deryck maintains an understanding of the issues and concerns of our major shareholders through meetings
with them and reports from our Investor Relations team and briefings from the Company Secretary on corporate
governance issues.
Vindi Banga will succeed Sir Deryck as SID when he retires from the Board after our AGM on 5 May 2016.
CEO Sir Andrew is responsible for the management of the business, developing the Group’s strategic direction
for consideration and approval by the Board and implementing the agreed strategy. He is assisted by other
members of the Corporate Executive Team (CET), which meets at least 11 times a year and more often
if required. Short biographies of the members of the CET are given under ‘Our Corporate Executive Team’
on pages 78 to 79.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary, Victoria Whyte, is a solicitor and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries
and Administrators. Victoria was formerly Deputy Secretary and Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
She has acted as Secretary to the Board and all the Board’s Committees since her appointment as
Company Secretary on 1 January 2011.
Victoria Whyte supports the Chairman in designing the induction for new Directors, in the delivery of our
corporate governance agenda, in particular in the planning of agendas for the annual cycle of Board and
Committee meetings, and in ensuring that information is made available to Board members on a timely basis.
She advises the Directors on Board procedures and corporate governance matters, and arranges for the
Non-Executive Directors to meet with investors to discuss aspects of our corporate governance arrangements
on request. She also arranges for them to attend internal management meetings and to make visits to our
business operations to enhance their knowledge and understanding of the business.
During 2015, the Company Secretary responded to various consultations on the evolving global governance
and corporate reporting agenda on behalf of the Group and engaged with shareholders to ensure they fully
understood GSK’s governance and remuneration arrangements.
At the request of the Chairman, she undertakes the evaluation of the Board and its Committees
(in collaboration with the Committee Chairmen) in years when the evaluation is conducted internally.84 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Corporate governance
continued
Diversity
Experience International experience Composition Tenure (Non-Executives)
Scientific
27%
Global
73%
Executive
20%
Up to 3 years
42%
Finance
27%
US
100%
Non-Executive
80%
3-6 years
25%
Industry
46%
Europe
87%
Male
73%
7-9 years
8%
60% 27% 25%
EMAP Female Over 9 years
The Board In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Board also met
The Board met face to face six times in 2015, with each member on a quorate basis on five occasions to consider corporate
attending as follows: transactions, including the Novartis transaction.
Number of
Board member since meetings attended
Board induction
Sir Philip Hampton 1 January 2015 6/6 A number of new Non-Executive Directors have joined the
Sir Andrew Witty 31 January 2008 6/6 Board during the year and have each undertaken Board induction
programmes that commenced when they were each appointed.
Simon Dingemans 4 January 2011 6/6
The programme devised for our new Chairman, was based on
Dr Moncef Slaoui 17 May 2006 6/6 the principles of the company’s new Non-Executive Directors
Sir Deryck Maughan 1 June 2004 6/6 programmes outlined below. It was further customised to take
account of his leadership role at GSK. A core element of this was
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 October 2007 6/6
individual meetings he held on a listening tour of GSK’s major
Vindi Banga 1 September 2015 2/2 shareholders, to understand firsthand their views and perspectives
on the Group, the company’s strategy, leadership, business model,
Dr Stephanie Burns 12 February 2007 6/6
performance and trading environment.
Stacey Cartwright 1 April 2011 6/6
His enhanced programme is set out in full on page 81 of GSK’s
Lynn Elsenhans 1 July 2012 6/6 2014 Annual Report.
Judy Lewent 1 April 2011 6/6 The induction programmes for Urs Rohner, Vindi Banga and
Dr Jesse Goodman have been:
Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 July 2006 6/6
(i) I ndividually designed and facilitated: by the Chairman
Urs Rohner 1 January 2015 6/6 and the Company Secretary.
Hans Wijers 1 April 2013 5/6
(ii) Designed with the purpose: to orientate and familiarise
Sir Christopher Gent* 1 June 2004 3/3 them with our industry, organisation, governance and our
strategy to Grow, Deliver & Simplify.
Tom de Swaan* 1 January 2006 3/3
(iii) C ustomised: to take account of their respective experience,
Jing Ulrich* 1 July 2012 2/3
different geographical backgrounds and business
perspectives, in light of the particular roles they would
Dr Jesse Goodman was appointed as a Non-Executive Director with effect
from 1 January 2016. perform and the Committees on which they would serve.
Each Board member that is seeking re-election at GSK’s 2016 AGM Key elements of the induction programmes including one-to-one
attended all six scheduled Board meetings. briefings, “teach-in” sessions and site visits undertaken by
* These directors retired from the Board on 7 May 2015. Urs Rohner, Vindi Banga and Dr Jesse Goodman are set out
below:
Board composition and diversity
We seek to build an effective and complementary Board, whose • Executive Directors to discuss GSK’s strategic, financial and
capability is appropriate for the scale, complexity and strategic R&D priorities.
positioning of our business. The process for Board appointments • CET members to cover our principal Pharmaceuticals,
is led by the Nominations Committee and is described on Consumer Healthcare and Vaccines businesses, together
pages 95 to 97. with the R&D and GMS organisations that underpin our
operating model.
We are mindful of the need to balance the composition of the Board
and its Committees and to refresh them progressively over time so • Other senior executives to cover our core operations such
that we can draw upon the experience of longer serving Directors, as Strategic Development, Finance, Tax, Treasury, Audit and
while tapping into the new external perspectives and insights which Assurance, HR, Investor Relations and Global Ethics and
more recent appointees bring to the Board’s deliberations. Compliance.
Non-Executive Directors are drawn from a wide range of industries • Site visits to our GMS, Vaccines, and R&D facilities.
and backgrounds, including pharmaceutical and healthcare, • I nvestor meetings which have been particularly customised
medical research and academia, and retail, insurance and financial for Vindi Banga in his role of SID.
services, and have appropriate experience of complex organisations
• CIA each new Director receives two hours of training on our
with global reach. Some have considerable experience of the
CIA obligations.
pharmaceutical industry and the more recent appointees bring
a new approach to the Group, and to Board discussions.
The Board’s diversity policy is set out on page 97 and for details
of the gender diversity of GSK’s global workforce, see page 47.Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Board, business awareness and training
Accountability
To ensure that our Non-Executive Directors develop and maintain
a greater insight and understanding of the business, they are
Internal control framework
invited to attend internal management meetings, including
The Board recognises its responsibilities to present a fair,
meetings of the CET, the Research & Development Executive
balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s position
(RADEX), the Product Executive, the Scientific Review Board, the
and prospects. The Board has accountability for reviewing and
Portfolio Investment Board, the US Commercial Accountability
approving the effectiveness of internal controls operated by the
Board and the Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC).
Group, including financial, operational and compliance controls,
They also meet employees informally during visits to the Group’s
and risk management.
operations and at receptions held around Board meetings.
The GSK Internal Control Framework (the Framework) is
The Chairman also meets with each Director annually on a one-to-
the means by which GSK assures compliance with laws
one basis to discuss his or her ongoing training and development
and regulations, the reliability of financial reporting and the
requirements. The Board is kept up-to-date on legal, regulatory
effectiveness of risk management. The Framework assists in the
and governance matters through regular papers from the Company
ongoing process of the Board’s identification, evaluation, and
Secretary and presentations by internal and external advisers.
management of the company’s Principal Risks as required by the
The Board members undertook specific refresher training on, and FRC’s Code, and is designed to manage rather than eliminate the
under the provisions of, the CIA in March 2015. Each new Board risk of not achieving business objectives. A fit-for-purpose internal
member is required, as part of his or her induction programme, to control framework, in conjunction with embedding the GSK Values
receive comprehensive training on the CIA. Philip Hampton and and our ‘Speak Up’ reporting lines, ensures that our Principal Risks
Urs Rohner, in January 2015, Vindi Banga, in September 2015, are actively and effectively controlled. For more information see
and Jesse Goodman, in January 2016 have each taken part in such ‘Our approach to risk’ on pages 16 to 17.
a training session as part of their induction programmes.
The Framework is designed to ensure the risks associated with
conducting our business activities are effectively controlled in line
2015 Internal evaluation of the Board with GSK’s risk appetite. We believe the Framework provides
The Board carries out an evaluation of its performance and reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material
that of its Committees every year and the evaluation is facilitated misstatement or loss.
externally every third year. The progress of the Board against the
To ensure effective governance and an ethical culture, GSK has
agreed action points of the 2014 evaluation, which was externally
facilitated by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited, are established the Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC).
disclosed on page 81. This team of senior leaders is authorised by the Board to assist
the Audit & Risk Committee (the Committee) in overseeing risk
The 2015 Board and Committees evaluation process was
management and internal control activities. It also provides the
conducted internally by the Secretary, at the request of the
business with a framework for risk management, upward reporting
Chairman and the CEO, who:
of significant risks, GSK Values and policies. Each business unit
• prepared surveys that were completed by Board members and global support function has a risk board structure which
and held interviews with each Director; reports to the ROCC. These Risk Management and Compliance
Boards (RMCB) are responsible for local ‘tone from the top’, risk
• discussed the outcomes and recommendations with the
management and internal controls.
Chairman; and
The ROCC and the RMCBs are assisted by Global Ethics and
• following discussion with the Board as a whole, identified areas
for improvement as agreed by the Board. Compliance (GEC), which is responsible for supporting risk
management and the development and implementation of
Amongst the areas reviewed were Board oversight issues, practices that facilitate employees’ compliance with laws and
shareholders and other stakeholder relationships, Board culture
policy. GEC also provides assistance to help employees meet
and how it balances challenge and support, ethics, strategy
high ethical standards by operating in accordance with our Values,
and priorities.
and to comply with applicable laws and regulations and corporate
The Board is viewed by all members as effective, strong and well responsibility.
able and equipped to navigate the challenges ahead. The action
GSK’s Audit & Assurance (A&A) provides an objective view
points arising from the 2015 evaluation are disclosed on page 81.
(i.e. assurance) to senior management and the Board of how risk is
Chairman and Non-Executive Director evaluation being managed across the Group in line with an agreed Assurance
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director (SID) sought Plan. This assurance helps them meet their oversight and advisory
feedback on the Chairman’s performance and canvassed views responsibilities in fulfilling our strategic and operational ambitions
on the Chairman’s performance from the Non-Executive Directors and building trust with our patients and other stakeholders. A&A
collectively. The results of the Chairman’s effectiveness review
has a dual reporting line into the CFO and the Committee.
were then discussed by the Chairman and the SID.
The Committee receives reports from Business Unit Heads, GEC
The Chairman met with each Non-Executive Director to discuss
and A&A on areas of significant risk to the Group and on related
individual contributions and performance, together with training
internal controls. These reports provide summaries of changes to
and development needs. He also shares peer feedback that is
the control environment within each Principal Risk area. Following
provided as part of the evaluation process. In addition, the
consideration of these reports, the Committee reports annually to
Chairman met with all the Non-Executive Directors independently
the Board on the effectiveness of controls.
of the Executive Directors.
GSK Annual Report 2015 8586 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Corporate governance
continued
The Board, through the Committee, has conducted a robust This is in accordance with the provisions of the FRC’s Code,
assessment of the Group’s Principal Risks and the Framework, which provide that the Board is responsible for determining the
and has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal nature and extent of the Principal Risks it is willing to take in
controls in operation across the Group for the year covered by achieving its strategic objectives. The Board provides oversight
this Annual Report and up to the date of its approval by the Board. to help ensure that the Group maintains sound risk management
The Board’s review focuses on the company and its subsidiaries and internal control systems. The Framework has been in operation
and does not extend to material associated undertakings, joint for the whole year and continues to operate up to and beyond
ventures or other investments, although it considers the risk of the the date of the approval of this Annual Report.
company’s participation in these activities. There are established
A review of the Group’s risk management approach is further
procedures and controls in place to identify entities whose results
discussed in ‘Our approach to risk’ section of the Strategic Report
must be consolidated with the Group’s results.
on pages 16 to 17. Our management and mitigation of each
We believe the process followed by the Board, through the Principal Risk is explained in ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’
Committee, in reviewing regularly the system of internal controls on pages 231 to 240. The Group’s viability is discussed in the
and risk management arrangements is in accordance with the Group financial review section of the Strategic report on page 52.
Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related
Financial and Business Reporting issued by the FRC. These
ongoing review and monitoring arrangements were expanded
during the year to include the impact of the Novartis transaction
that closed on 2 March 2015. For further details see page 88.
Our internal control framework
E n
terprise Oversight B Do ira er cd
t
oo rf
s
R ofe cs op ro pn os ri ab tl ee gfo or
v
o eu rnr as ny cs ete
,
m
strategy, risk management
Independent Assurance and financial performance
DisI
ci
Epn
l ni
fond
re
c
e eap
mn
ede ntnden At sB seu R ss i ss mi kn ee ns ts M &o CSn
ot
nai tnt
roW
do
lsar
rr
i
dti sten ng A Cou mdi mt & it tR ei esk R a
a
m
cn
n
oe ad
d
ns
n
tp aa
e
roo gp
ff
ln ep
e
ss mcroi tb eiv vl nie en
t
n
gf ao
e
ntr sh dr see
i
ov nai
f
tde eow e
ru
nqi rn au g
r
la
i
sc ky
Business
ot P
ro ble
m
seR sp
o n ding
Activities Training C Eo xerp cuor ta ivt ee
Team
S
m
anu
a
dp
n
p
a
ago cir
tn
it vs
g
i t
t ioh eue
sr
C bE usO
in
i en
s s
M Ma on na itg oe rm ine gnt Communication Risk Oversight Authorised by the Board
and Compliance to assist the Audit & Risk
Council Committee in overseeing the
risk management and internal
control activities of the Group
GSK Values
Business units Responsible for identifying,
Key assessing and managing risks
Individual Accountability within their businesses
Line Management Accountability with Compliance
Business Management Accountability with Compliance
Risk Oversight Ensure that appropriate
Audit & Assurance
and Compliance internal controls for effective risk
Council management are implemented
Complemented by Country
Executive Risk Boards to ensure
a consistent approach to risk
management across local
geographies
gnirotinom
rof
ytilibatnuoccA
gnitnemelpmi
rof
ytilibisnopseR
Governance structure of risk managementStrategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Remuneration
Our Remuneration report comprises the Remuneration Committee
Chairman’s annual statement and the annual report on
remuneration and is set out on pages 102 to 126. In addition,
we have produced a summary of the shareholder approved
Remuneration policy report, which is set out on pages 127 to 128.
Relations with shareholders
We work to engage effectively with shareholders through our regular
communications, the AGM and other investor relations activities.
It has been a particularly busy year in terms of shareholder
engagement, in what has been a transformational year for the
company as a result of the Novartis transaction. In addition to the
continuous dialogue the CEO and CFO maintain with institutional
shareholders, in which they held 40 individual meetings and
hosted 13 group events, there has been a number key shareholder
engagement events during the year, including:
• the new Chairman undertaking a listening tour of our institutional
investors to understand firsthand their views and perspectives
on the issues and challenges facing the industry and GSK;
• holding an Investor Day in May 2015, at which the CEO and
the leaders of our Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer
Healthcare businesses outlined the strategic proposition for the
reshaped Group and profiled the medium to long-term shape
and opportunities for GSK;
• holding an R&D event in November 2015, at which the CEO and
leaders of our R&D Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses
profiled 40 potential new medicines and vaccines that offer
significant opportunity to drive long-term performance and
deliver new benefits to patients and consumers; and also
• holding our annual investors meetings in November 2015,
at which the new Chairman and Remuneration Committee
Chairman, the Audit & Risk Committee Chairman, our SID
and Company Secretary discussed corporate governance
and remuneration matters with our institutional investors.
Committee reports
The reports of the Audit & Risk, Nominations and Corporate
Responsibility Committees, describing the activities of those
Committees during the year, are set out on pages 88 to 99.
GSK Annual Report 2015 8788 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Corporate governance
continued
The following Centres of Excellence have been established:
Audit & Risk Committee Report
• G lobal Risk Office has accountability for strengthening risk
management by standardising methodology around managing
our Principal Risks, including our combined ABAC and Third
Party risk programme, as well as identifying emerging risks
through scanning the external and internal environment, and
serving as the steward of our internal control framework model
by proactively communicating and monitoring effective
Judy Lewent implementation.
Audit & Risk Committee
• S trategy, Planning and Operations has accountability for
Chairman
ensuring our global system of governance is embedded by
maintaining and proactively delivering standards, policies,
Dear Shareholder training and our values assurance programme throughout GSK.
During 2015, the Committee’s agenda has continued to be built • Investigations & Independent Business Monitoring offers
around the usual review of our financial results and ensuring the
three tiers of service, delivered via regional hubs, to provide
ongoing effectiveness of the company’s internal control and risk a consistent framework for delivering effective Independent
management arrangements. This year, however, it has also had
Business Monitoring which is also aligned to GSK’s Values.
a particular focus on the impact of the Novartis transaction that
we closed on 2 March 2015. The transaction resulted in very Other related initiatives overseen by the Committee included:
material change in all three of our core businesses and has
• I mproved coordination of our investigatory efforts through the
required significant integration and restructuring efforts to embed
establishment of an Enterprise Investigations Committee to
the acquired businesses in Vaccines and Consumer and extract
accelerate the management of ‘Speak-Up’, Anti-Bribery and
the oncology marketed products from Pharmaceuticals. Regular
Corruption (ABAC) and Computer Security Incident Response
reviews were held by the Committee to ensure that our control
issues, assign issues for investigation as appropriate, and enable
framework and reporting requirements were being maintained
greater collaboration across GEC, Legal, HR and our Computer
throughout.
Security Response teams.
In addition, the Committee has continued to monitor the Group’s
• M onitoring progress in implementing the programme of actions
key ongoing transformation and simplification programmes
underway to enhance the control of our ABAC risk and ultimately
including, in particular, those in our Global Support Functions
incorporate ABAC requirements into regular business practices.
where we are continuing to simplify our operating model through
Employee and management accountability was further improved
programmes such as Finance Transformation as well as
in 2015 through the establishment of a network of ABAC owners
undertaking major upgrades to the Group’s systems and global
within the business units, broadening of ABAC training and
processes, including core ERP, HR and supply chain platforms.
communications across the enterprise, the introduction of
The Committee has also regularly reviewed the Group’s cyber
periodic certifications, the reinforcement of the linkage between
security and the progress of our Infoprotect programme which
GSK Values and performance, and the implementation of a new
is designed to address this risk specifically.
policy on senior management financial recoupment.
New standards introduced into the FRC’s Code for 2015 have
• C ompletion of General Manager (GM) Confirmations of the
required additional focus from the Committee this year to ensure
operation of our internal control framework for all markets in the
our compliance with these requirements. Probably the most
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses, excluding the US
significant change this year has been the new requirements
which has a different system of review. This was completed in
relating to the company’s viability which we report on for the
2015. The assessment process has become an annual process
first time on page 52.
and now operates a standardised and consistent approach.
Finally, the Committee has approved the formal commencement Output from these reviews has been consolidated to provide a
of an audit tender in the autumn of 2016 that will result in a new clearer view of current trends, assist with the identification of
audit firm replacing PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) at the potential gaps and facilitate the sharing of good practices. In
beginning of 2018. This is a significant and important step for the 2016, Consumer Healthcare will implement a similar process
Committee and the Board and more details on the audit tender for GM Confirmation of the operation of our internal control
process, its governance and timescales can be found on page 92. framework for key risks and minimum controls.
Internal framework for control and risk management Novartis integration
The enhancements made to our internal control framework have Oversight of the Novartis transaction has been a key priority for the
helped to build a stronger culture of compliance and enable a Committee, given the importance of the success of the transaction
multi-faceted approach to strengthening controls around each to the Group. The Committee has received regular reports and
of our Principal Risks. During 2015, extensive training and presentations on the integration and management of the acquired
communications were implemented across our compliance Novartis businesses from an operational, internal control
functions, and in turn, with key risk groups in each of our business accounting and risk management perspective both in the run
units. This progress has been supported by our Global Ethics up to the close of the transaction in March 2015 and regularly
and Compliance (GEC) function. The activities of GEC were throughout the year as the integration and associated restructuring
re-organised and enhanced during 2015 to put in place a network programmes began to be implemented. In addition, on-boarded
of experts sitting in Centres of Excellence that manage the key Novartis employees have successfully completed the mandatory
elements of our Principal Risks and internal control framework. training on our Code of Conduct, ABAC, and Corporate Integrity
This new governance model is designed to standardise, prioritise Agreement obligations.
and drive integrated compliance controls across each of our
Principal Risks.Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Global Support Function simplification programmes Membership and attendance
The Committee has continued to review regularly the multi-year The membership of the Committee, together with appointment
programmes underway to simplify our support functions and dates and attendance at meetings, is set out below:
standardise our operating model around new and upgraded
platforms. These programmes are now well established but are Committee Attendance at full
at a peak of activity currently as the new platforms and processes Members member since meetings during 2015
are rolled out across the Group, compounded by the additional Judy Lewent
requirements to integrate the former Novartis businesses into (Chairman from 1 January 2013) 1 April 2011 6/6
the Group’s operating and reporting infrastructure. Significant Vindi Banga 1 January 2016 0/0
progress has been reported with the completion of new global Lynn Elsenhans 1 January 2014 6/6
HR and supply chain forecasting systems and multiple cut overs
Stacey Cartwright 1 April 2011 6/6
of local operating companies onto the new ERP platform delivered
during the year with targeted control levels maintained throughout. Sir Deryck Maughan 21 January 2005 6/6
The Committee has also paid particular attention to the parallel Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 January 2007 6/6
transformation programmes underway in a number of the support
Tom de Swaan* 1 January 2006 2/3
functions, especially the Finance Transformation initiative, to
Jing Ulrich* 1 May 2013 2/3
ensure that controls and reporting requirements are not affected.
InfoProtect * Tom de Swaan and Jing Ulrich both retired from the Board on
The Committee continues to keep the multi-year programme 7 May 2015.
to enhance, secure and strengthen our cyber security defences
In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Committee also met
under close scrutiny. As part of this review process a cyber
on a quorate basis on six occasions to review or approve matters
security report is submitted by the Chief Information Security
associated with the Annual Report and Form 20-F, and preliminary
Officer to each scheduled meeting and we were pleased that
and quarterly results announcements.
a number of key risk reduction initiatives were delivered during
the year. Details of the members’ financial, accounting or scientific experience
and expertise are given in their biographies under ‘Our Board’ on
UK Corporate Governance Code
pages 74 to 77.
Following the issue of FRC’s updated Code and associated
Guidance that came into effect for the 2015 financial reporting The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and attends
year, the Committee has devoted time to satisfying itself that all meetings. The entire Board is invited to attend the Committee
our internal control and risk management arrangements and meetings and other attendees include:
monitoring practices accord with these new enhanced
requirements. A particular area of investment during the year Regular Attends as
Attendee attendee required
was the development and recommendation to the Board of
a new viability statement, which examines the company’s longer General Counsel (cid:22)
term solvency and viability and is set out on page 52. We agreed Financial Controller (cid:22)
the analytical and assurance work by management that underpins Head of Audit & Assurance (cid:22)
the statement and considered that three years was an appropriate
Head of Global Ethics and Compliance (cid:22)
timeframe on which to base an assessment of long-term viability
as it aligns with our regular business planning period. The Chief Medical Officer (cid:22)
Committee also reviewed the outcome of the stress testing Chief Product Quality Officer (cid:22)
performed by management and recommended that the Directors
External auditor (cid:22)
confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group
will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as In accordance with the FRC’s Code, the Board has determined that
they fall due over the three year period of the assessment. Stacey Cartwright and Judy Lewent both have recent and relevant
financial experience. The Board has also agreed that Stacey
The Committee will continue its work to encourage and support
Cartwright and Judy Lewent have the appropriate qualifications and
further enhancements to the Group’s internal controls and audit
background to be audit committee financial experts as defined by the
assurance arrangements. In addition, I look forward to reporting
US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and has determined that each is the conclusion of our external audit tender process and to
independent within the meaning of the US Securities Exchange Act
explaining how the plan to manage the transition from PwC
of 1934, as amended.
to our new auditor will operate.
In addition, Vindi Banga, Judy Lewent, Sir Deryck Maughan are also
members of the Remuneration Committee, which allows them to
provide input on the Committee’s review of the Group’s performance
and oversight on any risk factors relevant to remuneration matters.
Judy Lewent
Audit & Risk Committee Chairman
16 March 2016
GSK Annual Report 2015 89Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Corporate governance
continued
Principal activities and matters addressed during 2015
Global internal control Governance and other
Month Financial reporting & compliance External auditors Risk matters
January • Integrity of draft • Review 2014 risk • Assessment of external • China investigations • Compliance with FRC’s
financial statements management and auditors, effectiveness and ABAC update Code
and appropriateness of internal control report of external audit • Emerging risk review • Corporate Governance
accounting policies • Litigation report process • Global Support update
• Draft 2014 Annual • Corporate Integrity • Re-appointment of Functions – change • Committee evaluation
report and Form 20-F Agreement (CIA) auditors proposed for programme impacts • Private meetings with
and annual summary update reports approval at AGM • ROCC meeting update the external auditors,
leaflet • Review annual Audit • External auditor • Novartis transaction Head of Audit and
and Assurance Plan year-end audit findings update Assurance respectively
and report • Audit/non-audit • Committee members
expenditure during 2014 met privately
February • Going concern • Sarbanes-Oxley • Audit/non-audit
assumptions compliance expenditure during 2014
• Preliminary results confirmation • External auditor
announcement Sarbanes-Oxley control
• Directors expenses findings
• Approval of 2014 • External auditor Annual
Annual Report and Report and Form 20-F
20-F and annual findings
summary leaflet
March • Approach on • Performance • China investigations • Audit and Assurance
Sarbanes-Oxley expectations for and ABAC update rating system
compliance for 2015 external auditors • Emerging risk review • Private meeting with the
• Litigation report • Commercial Practices external auditors
• CIA update reports Enterprise Risk • Committee members
• Global Ethics and • Vaccines update met privately
Compliance report • ROCC meeting update
• Global Pharma • Novartis transaction
business unit report update
May • 1st quarter results • Litigation report • External auditor 1st • China investigations and • Private meeting with the
announcement • Consumer Healthcare quarter results review ABAC update external auditors
& GMS business unit findings • Novartis transaction • Committee members
reports • External audit plan and update met privately
fee proposal for 2015 • ERP annual update
• ROCC meeting update
• Emerging risk review
July • Going concern • Litigation report • External auditor 2nd • China investigations and • Corporate Governance
assumptions and • CIA update reports quarter results review ABAC update update, including FRC
Viability Statement • Assessment of key findings • ROCC meeting update Code changes
approach internal control by • Cyber security report • Private meeting with the
• 2nd quarter results principal risk • Emerging risk review external auditors
announcement • Vaccines business unit • Novartis transaction • Committee members
• Review of accounting report update met privately
issue development • EHS&S & Third Party
impacts Oversight (TPO)
Enterprise Risks
• Treasury, Tax, Pensions
and Insurance risk
October • 3rd quarter results • Litigation report • External auditor 3rd • ABAC update • FRC Code and
announcement • CIA update reports quarter results review • ROCC meeting update guidance changes
• Operational Excellence findings • Cyber security report • Private meeting with the
update • Novartis 2015 external • Emerging risk review external auditors
• R&D business unit audit plan • Novartis transaction • Committee members
report update met privately
• Scientific Engagement,
Patient Safety, Product
Quality and TPO
Enterprise Risks
December • Viability Statement • Litigation report • External Audit Phase 1 • ABAC update • Private meetings with
update • CIA update reports results and Annual • Cyber security report the external auditors
• Management report on • Global Support Report disclosure • ROCC meeting update and the Corporate
accounting issues and Functions business unit requirements • Novartis transaction Compliance Officer
appropriateness of report • Pre-approval of external update respectively
accounting policies • Internal Control auditor budget for non- • Emerging risk review • Corporate Governance
Framework assessment audit services in 2016 • Information protection Disclosures
• Update on 2015 external • Terrorism risk • Committee members
auditor fees and budget assessment met privately
• Audit tender review
90 GSK Annual Report 2015Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Committee’s financial reporting activities Significant issues relating to the financial statements
In respect of financial reporting activities, the Committee reviews The significant issues considered in relation to the financial
and recommends to the Board for its approval all financial results statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 are set out in
announcements. In considering the quarterly financial results the following table, together with a summary of the financial
announcements and the financial results contained in the 2015 outcomes where appropriate. In addition, the Committee and the
Annual Report, the Committee reviewed the significant issues and external auditors have discussed the significant issues addressed
judgements made by management in determining those results. The by the Committee during the year and the areas of particular audit
Committee reviewed papers prepared by management setting out focus, as described in the Independent Auditor’s Report on pages
the key areas of risk, the actions undertaken to quantify the effects 131 to 137.
of the relevant issues and the judgements made by management on
the appropriate accounting required to address those issues in the
financial statements.
Significant issues considered
by the Committee in relation
to the financial statements How the issue was addressed by the Committee
Going concern basis for the The Committee considered the outcome of management’s half-yearly reviews of current and forecast net debt
preparation of the financial positions and the various financing facilities and options available to the Group. Following a review of the risk
statements and potential impact of unforeseen events, the Committee confirmed that the application of the going concern
basis for the preparation of the financial statements continued to be appropriate.
Revenue recognition, including The Committee reviewed management’s approach to the timing of recognition of revenue and accruals for
returns and rebates (RAR) customer returns and rebates. The US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines accrual for returns and rebates was
accruals £1.5 billion at 31 December 2015 and the Committee reviewed the basis on which the accrual had been
made and concurred with management’s judgements on the amounts involved. A fuller description of the
process operated in the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business in determining the level of accrual
necessary is set out in ‘Critical accounting policies’ on page 70.
Provisions for legal matters, The Committee received detailed reports on actual and potential litigation from both internal and external
including investigations into the legal counsel, together with a number of detailed updates on investigations into the Group’s commercial
Group’s commercial practices practices. Management outlined the levels of provision and corresponding disclosure considered necessary
in respect of potential adverse litigation outcomes and also those areas where it was not yet possible to
determine if a provision was necessary, or its amount. At 31 December 2015, the provision for legal matters
was £0.4 billion, as set out in Note 29 to the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’.
Provisions for uncertain tax The Committee considered current tax disputes and areas of potential risk and concurred with
positions management’s judgement on the levels of tax contingencies required. At 31 December 2015, the Group’s
balance sheet included a tax payable liability of £1.4 billion.
Impairments of intangible The Committee reviewed management’s process for reviewing and testing goodwill and other intangible
assets assets for potential impairment. The Committee accepted management’s judgements on the intangible
assets that required writing down and the resulting impairment charge of £217 million in 2015. See Note 19
to the financial statements, ‘Other intangible assets’ for more details.
Valuation of contingent The Committee considered management’s judgement that following the further improved sales performance of
consideration in relation to Tivicay and Triumeq, it was necessary to increase the liability to pay contingent consideration for the acquisition
ViiV Healthcare of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. At 31 December 2015, the Group’s balance sheet included
a net contingent consideration liability of £3.4 billion. See Note 38 to the financial statements, ‘Acquisitions and
disposals’ for more details.
Novartis transaction items The Committee received regular reports throughout the year on the progress of the Novartis transaction.
including Vaccines contingent The Committee reviewed the basis of the valuation of the assets and liabilities acquired from Novartis, and
consideration and Consumer in particular, the calculations of the liabilities for the Vaccines contingent consideration and the Consumer
Healthcare put option Healthcare put option. The Committee concurred with management’s judgements on the amounts to be
recognised.
GSK Annual Report 2015 91Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Corporate governance
continued
Audit tendering
PwC has been the auditor of the company and the Group since the inception of each in 2000. Their performance has been reviewed
annually and audit partner rotation requirements have been observed. During this time, the Directors have not sought to tender PwC’s
contract. As a result of the UK’s implementation of the EU’s mandatory firm rotation requirements, the company is required to replace
PwC with another auditor no later than for the financial year commencing 1 January 2021.
In January 2015, when the Committee, as usual, reviewed PwC’s performance for the previous year and recommended their
reappointment for a further year, it also considered whether to initiate or defer an external audit contract tendering process. The
Committee agreed that given the level of change that was being experienced in the business, it was not appropriate to put the audit
out to tender in 2015. However, having reviewed the relative merits of conducting a tender and the recent changes in regulations in
this area, the Committee considered that it was in the best interests of shareholders to plan to undertake a tender process in the
second half of 2016.
It would target appointing the new auditor with effect from 1 January 2018, which would coincide with the end of the current PwC
partner’s five year tenure as the Group audit engagement leader. If the company was to reappoint PwC from 1 January 2018, a new PwC
Partner would need to be appointed and PwC would still be required to rotate after the 2020 audit. Consequently, PwC will not
be asked to participate in the anticipated tender exercise in the second half of 2016.
Audit tender governance
In December 2015, the Committee agreed that, to achieve the move to a new audit firm to take over the audit for the 2018
financial year, an audit contract tender be conducted in the autumn of 2016. A final recommendation by the Committee of at
least two audit firms with a preference expressed for the appointment of one of those firms is anticipated to be made in
December 2016 for final approval by the Board by the end of 2016. The Committee will direct and supervise the tender process
and has agreed the implementation of a robust audit tender governance structure to deliver a successful audit contract tender
process with minimal disruption to the Group. The main elements of this governance structure are as follows:
Audit Tender Operations Steering Executive Steering Audit & Risk Board
Planning Team Committee Committee Committee
Remit: design, plan, Remit: Remit: lead/oversee Remit: direct and Remit: Appoints new
implement and run coordinate/execute audit tender process supervise audit auditor with effect
audit tender process audit tender process implementation tender process from 1 January 2018
Meets: weekly and consider shortlisting Assess candidates; and recommend and agrees to seek
arrangements liaise with the ARC new auditor to shareholder approval
Meets: monthly then during process and the Board for the appointment
fortnightly towards final evaluation at the AGM
end of process Members: ARC
Chair, CFO, Group
Financial Controller and
Company Secretary
Meets: monthly
92 GSK Annual Report 2015Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Ongoing effectiveness and quality of external audit process
The Committee is committed to ensuring on an ongoing basis that GSK receives a high quality and effective audit. In evaluating the
effectiveness of the audit process prior to making a recommendation on the re-appointment of the external auditor, the Committee
reviews the effectiveness of their performance against criteria which it agrees, in conjunction with management, at the beginning
of each year’s audit.
The cycle of activities the Committee typically undertakes each year to satisfy itself of external audit quality and effectiveness,
together with their timelines, is set out below.
Audit or re-appointment Auditor expectations Formal auditor appointment C ommittee evaluation and
process setting and audit planning budget setting
Matters addressed: Matters addressed: Matters addressed: Matters addressed:
• review effectiveness of external • agree the performance • shareholders vote at AGM • review feedback from
auditor against expectations expectations of the auditor on resolutions to appoint Committee members
set in previous year for the upcoming audit auditor and fix their independently as part of
• review auditor’s independence, remuneration annual Committee evaluation
appropriate level of • review and agree audit plan covering:
qualifications, expertise and for upcoming audit – relationship with auditor
resources • consider auditor’s quality – quality of insights they
• consider whether auditor control procedures provide Committee on
exhibited appropriate level of • agree and set statutory their work
challenge/scepticism in their audit fee – whether they have
work • receive management sufficient access to
• consider whether to initiate or feedback on prior year’s auditor with management
defer an audit contract tender audit process through • pre-approve budget for
• once satisfied, recommend to survey covering: non-audit services (ideally
Board auditor re-appointment – robustness of audit below 50% of statutory
at next AGM process audit fee) for following year
– quality of delivery, people
and service
January March May December
The detailed criteria the Committee uses for judging the effectiveness of the external auditor and their overriding responsibility
to deliver a smooth running, thorough and efficiently executed audit are set out below:
Performance expectations for GSK’s external auditor
Specific auditor responsibilities Wider auditor responsibilities
• Discuss approach and areas of focus in advance with early • Provide up-to-date advice on the new viability statement
engagement on understanding the implications of GSK’s new requirement
operating model • Provide up-to-date knowledge of technical and governance
• Ensure Sarbanes-Oxley scope and additional procedures are issues, providing accurate and timely advice
discussed and endorsed by management and communicated on • Serve as an industry resource; communicating best practice
a timely basis within GSK and PwC and industry trends in reporting
• Avoid surprises through timely reporting of issues at all levels within • Adhere to all independence policies (including GSK’s policies,
the Group the Financial Reporting Council’s ISA 240 and applicable
• Ensure there is clarity of roles and responsibilities between the Securities and Exchange Commission standards)
auditor and local management • Deliver a focused and consistent audit approach globally that
• Respond to any issues raised by management on a timely basis reflects local risks and materiality
• Meet agreed deadlines • Liaise with GSK’s Audit & Assurance team to avoid duplication
of work and Global Ethics and Compliance team to ensure
• Provide continuity and succession planning of key employees of
common understanding of audit outcomes
the auditor
• Provide consistency of advice at all levels of the organisation
• Provide sufficient time for management to consider draft auditor
• Ultimately provide a high quality service to the Board,
reports and respond to requests and queries
be scrupulous in their scrutiny of the Group and act with
• Employ consistent communication between local and central utmost integrity.
audit teams.
GSK Annual Report 2015 93Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Corporate governance
continued
Non-audit services Fair, balanced and understandable assessment
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 prohibits the engagement One of the key compliance requirements of a group’s financial
of the external auditor for the provision of certain services statements is for the Annual Report to be fair, balanced and
such as legal, actuarial, internal audit outsourcing or financial understandable. The coordination and review of Group-wide
information systems design. Where the external auditor is contributions into the Annual Report follows a well established
permitted to provide non-audit services (such as audit-related, and documented process, which is performed in parallel with
tax and other services), the Committee ensures that auditor the formal process undertaken by the external auditor.
objectivity and independence are safeguarded by a policy
The Committee received a summary of the approach taken by
requiring pre-approval by the Committee for such services.
management in the preparation of GSK’s 2015 Annual Report
There were no contractual or similar obligations restricting
to ensure that it met the requirements of the FRC’s Code.
the Group’s choice of external auditor.
This enabled the Committee, and then the Board, to confirm
All non-audit services over £50,000 are put out to competitive that GSK’s 2015 Annual Report taken as a whole is fair,
tender with financial service providers other than the external balanced and understandable.
auditor, in line with the Group’s procurement process, unless the
Code of Conduct and reporting lines
skills and experience of the external auditor make them the most
We also have a number of well established policies, including a
suitable supplier of the non-audit service under consideration,
Code of Conduct, which is available on the governance section
in which case a request for proposal is submitted by the relevant
of our website, and confidential ‘Speak Up’ reporting lines for
CET member to the CFO for approval. Non-audit services
the reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct. An updated
spending is monitored by the Committee on a quarterly basis
version of the Code of Conduct was published in January 2014.
and discussed with the Committee Chairman.
CMA Order 2014 Statement of compliance
The following policy guidelines on engaging the external auditor The Committee confirms that during 2015 the company has
to provide non-audit services are observed:
complied with the mandatory audit processes and audit committee
• ascertaining that the skills and experience of the external responsibilities provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority
auditor make them a suitable supplier of the non-audit services; Statutory Audit Services Order 2014, as outlined in this report which
• ensuring adequate safeguards are in place so that the objectivity describes the work of the Committee in discharging its
and independence of the Group audit are not threatened or responsibilities.
compromised; and Committee evaluation
• ensure that the total fee levels do not exceed 50% of the annual The Committee’s annual evaluation was internally facilitated by
audit fee, except in special circumstances where there would the Company Secretary, and supplemented by a questionnaire
be a clear advantage in the company’s auditor undertaking such circulated to Committee members on behalf of the Committee
additional work. Chairman. It was concluded that the Committee continued to
operate effectively. In terms of enhancements to the Committee’s
Fees paid to the company’s auditor and its associates are set
deliberations the following improvement points were agreed:
out below. Further details are given in Note 8 to the financial
statements, ‘Operating profit’. • Continue to improve on paper content and focus, ensuring
brevity throughout;
Where possible, other accounting firms are engaged to undertake
non-audit services. • Further increase the focus on setting, monitoring and adjusting
risk appetite;
Audit/non-audit service three year comparison graph (£m) • Incorporate the new Risk Oversight Compliance Council
reporting updates on new and emerging issues into the
Committee’s agenda, to aid anticipation of potential risk
30 and audit issues; and
27.5* • Consider the division of meetings into two halves, focusing
25
on traditional financial and audit related matters for Committee
members only, and risk, litigation and serious issues facing the
20 20.0 20.1 20.0 Group. The Committee subsequently debated the organisation
of its meetings and agreed that all Board members wished to
15 continue to attend the entire meeting.
8.6
10
05 6.2 5.3 5.3
0
2013 2014 2015
Audit and assurance services
Other services, including tax, regulatory, compliance
and treasury-related services
Services related to the Novartis transaction
* The fee for audit and assurance services in 2015 includes £7.5 million
arising from the Novartis transaction and the subsequent increase in
complexity of the Group. Approximately half of this is expected to be
recurring.
94 GSK Annual Report 2015Strategic
report
Governance
& remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Senior Independent Director (SID) succession
Nominations Committee Report
Sir Deryck Maughan has brought his own style to the role of SID,
discharging its responsibilities with great diligence including
leading and concluding the recent Chairman succession search
process. We were pleased that Sir Deryck agreed to further
extend his tenure on the Board to step down at the AGM in May
2016. He brings continuity to the Board’s composition, given his
significant knowledge of, and experience in, GSK’s business
affairs. In a period of significant change to the Board’s
Philip Hampton
membership, Sir Deryck has helped to facilitate the transition
Nominations Committee
between Sir Christopher and myself.
Chairman
In addition, as a Committee member, he has helped in the search
and recruitment of his successor, as SID. The Committee was
Dear Shareholder
pleased to recommend to the Board the appointment of Vindi
One of the first key priorities when I joined the Board at the start
Banga as SID designate. Vindi joined the Board in September
of the year was to succeed Sir Christopher Gent as Nominations
2015 and was appointed to the same Committees as Sir Deryck
Committee Chairman. Last year was a year of significant transition
in January 2016 (Nominations, Audit & Risk and Remuneration).
and this meant that I could focus immediately on tailoring the
They are working closely together to ensure a smooth transition.
refreshment of the Board in line with the:
Vindi will succeed Sir Deryck as SID at the conclusion of the
• agreed principles and actions set out in Dr Tracy Long’s 2014 AGM on 5 May 2016.
external evaluation review; and Scientific and Medical Expert (SME) succession
• requirements of the reshaped Group to create and maximise the Dr Daniel Podolsky has served as the Board’s US-based
long-term value of the Novartis transaction to shareholders. designated SME with great distinction during his tenure on the
Board. He will be stepping down from the Board as planned at the
The Nominations Committee (the Committee) has had a busy year
2016 AGM after serving nine years. After commencing the search
and has made good progress towards its aim of first considering
for his successor in this highly specialist role at the beginning of
Board size and composition and then replacing a number of
the year, the Committee was pleased to recommend to the Board
planned retirements for Non-Executive Board members and
the appointment of Dr Jesse Goodman as a Non-Executive
addressing identified skills gaps. The Committee has also focused
Director and SME. He joined the Board in January 2016 and
on effective management succession of executive management.
was appointed to the Corporate Responsibility Committee with
Progress in respect of these elements is set out below.
effect from May 2016.
Board size and composition Further details on the role criteria and recruitment process for
A central element of the current Board refreshment programme
the SID and SME roles and rationale behind the Committee
was the consideration of the most appropriate size and
recommending Vindi Banga and Dr Jesse Goodman’s
composition for the Board given the scale, complexity and appointments is given on page 96.
strategic positioning of the business. In performing this analysis,
the Committee used an enhanced Board competence and Committee membership
experience matrix linked to the company’s strategy and underpins Lynn Elsenhans was appointed to the Committee in January 2015
the Board refreshment programme. We are making good progress to join me and Judy Lewent as newer appointees to ensure the
in identifying an ideal future size of the Board, which is likely to see Committee achieved a good balance between longer serving
a reduction in the second half of 2016. As part of this analysis, the Committee members and newer appointees to support shaping
Committee has also factored the increased target of 33% size in the Board for the longer term. I was also grateful to Sir Christopher
female representation by 2020 as outlined by Lord Davies in his for sharing his insights and deep understanding of the evolution
final ‘Women on Boards’ report published in October 2015. of the Board, its culture and composition during the period of his
stewardship.
CEO and management succession
The Committee has continued to scrutinise the robustness of The Committee’s key focus in 2016 will be the progression of our
succession planning arrangements for the Executive Directors and management succession plans working in collaboration with the
each executive management role, together with the adequacy of CEO. In addition, we will continue to refresh the non-executive
the pipeline of leadership talent below the CET. After what will representation on the Board with the aim of reducing the overall
have been nearly 10 years as CEO, Sir Andrew has indicated to Board size to around twelve members.
the Board his intention to retire from the company in early 2017.
The Board has agreed that he will retire on 31 March 2017. The
Committee will now start a formal search for a successor and will
consider internal and external candidates for the role. To that end,
Philip Hampton
Egon Zehnder and Korn Ferry have been engaged.
Nominations Committee Chairman
16 March 2016
GSK Annual Report 2015 95Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Corporate governance
continued
Membership Refreshment of specialist roles on the Board
The membership of the Committee, together with appointment During 2015, as part of an orderly refreshment of the Board, a
dates and attendance at meetings, is set out below: particular area of focus for the Committee was the searches for a
successor to Sir Deryck Maughan as SID and Dr Daniel Podolsky
Attendance at as our US-based SME, both of whom are due to retire and stand
Committee full meetings down from the Board after our 2016 AGM.
Members member since during 2015
Sir Philip Hampton The Committee felt that in determining the key essentials for the
(Chairman from 27 January 2015) 27 January 2015 6/6 SID, it was very desirable to have a UK-based director, or failing
that, someone who travelled and spent the majority of their time in
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 October 2012 6/6
the UK. It was also thought important that the individual should
Vindi Banga 1 January 2016 0/0 have a strong understanding of the UK corporate governance
Lynn Elsenhans 27 January 2015 5/5 environment.
Judy Lewent 8 May 2014 6/6 Korn Ferry, who only provides recruitment services to the company,
Sir Deryck Maughan 9 July 2009 5/6 was engaged to conduct the search for the SID and they provided
a long and then a short list of potential candidates. After
Sir Christopher Gent* 9 December 2004 3/3
interviewing suitable SID candidates, feedback was sought from
Tom de Swaan** 1 October 2012 3/3 and support was received from certain investors before the
Committee recommended to the Board Vindi Banga as a potential
* Sir Christopher Gent was Committee Chairman from 1 January 2005
to 27 January 2015 and retired from the Board on 7 May 2015. independent Non-Executive Director and SID designate. He was
appointed to the Board on 1 September 2015. The Board
** Tom de Swaan retired from the Board on 7 May 2015.
considered that he had a strong operational bias, bringing with him
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and attends many years of commercial experience and a track record of
all meetings. Other attendees at Committee meetings may include: delivering outstanding performance in a highly competitive global
consumer-focused industry, which will be invaluable to the
Regular Attends company. He currently serves as a non-executive director on the
Attendee attendee as required Boards of two other FTSE 100 companies. Vindi will succeed
Chief Executive Officer (cid:22) Sir Deryck Maughan as SID when he steps down from the Board
Head of Human Resources (cid:22) at the close of the AGM on 5 May 2016.
Appropriate external advisers (cid:22)
When the Committee was drawing up the role specification for the
new SME role it considered that Dr Podolsky’s successor should
ideally have a strong business perspective, be US-based,
Work of the Committee during 2015
understand the US healthcare environment, be a medic who was
Main responsibilities close to the patient either through running operations at scale in a
The main responsibilities of the Committee are set out on page 82. hospital or an institution, have an understanding of vaccines,
preferably, (or if not Respiratory) considering the standing of GSK’s
CEO and management succession
Vaccines portfolio since the Novartis transaction was completed.
The Committee and the CEO, with assistance from the Head of
Internal soundings were taken from within Vaccines and R&D to
Human Resources, have been working on managing succession
identify potential external candidates. Egon Zehnder undertook a full
arrangements for the Executive Directors and each executive
external market search for suitable candidates.
management role to secure the best leadership for the company.
The specification for each role is considered in detail against the Egon Zehnder, who only provides recruitment services to the
current and future needs of the changing environment in which the company, was engaged to conduct the search for the US-based
company operates. In compiling any succession plan, internal and SME role. Dossiers of potential Non-Executive appointees were
external talent are considered and reviewed against the considered by the Committee and candidates were shortlisted for
specification which has been drawn together. interview on merit and against objective criteria, after assessing
their relevant qualifications and time commitments.
In terms of the Executive team, as part of ensuring more focused
management of the company’s Consumer Healthcare, Vaccines, After interviewing suitable SME candidates, the Committee
and Pharmaceuticals businesses as a result the transformational recommended to the Board Dr Jesse Goodman as a potential
Novartis transaction: Non-Executive Director and SME. He was appointed to the Board
on 1 January 2016. Dr Jesse Goodman is a leader in public health
• Emma Walmsley who was previously President, Consumer
who brings a wealth of expertise spanning science, medicine,
Healthcare was appointed CEO of the Consumer Healthcare Joint
vaccines, regulation and public health, and has a proven record in
Venture business and became a member of its Board when the
addressing pressing public health needs from both the academic
Novartis transaction successfully completed on 2 March 2015;
and federal sectors, which will be invaluable to GSK and the Board.
• following the announcement by Deirdre Connelly, President
North America Pharmaceuticals, in February 2015 of her
intention to retire from GSK, her role was not replaced on the
CET; and, in addition
• Bill Louv, Senior Vice President, Core Business Services retired
as planned from GSK in 2015. His successor reports to the
CFO, but is not a member of the CET.
96 GSK Annual Report 2015Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Board Committee Chairmen and membership changes
The refreshment of the Board has also led to the following orderly changes to our Board Committee membership.
Director Committee membership Appointment date Retirement date
Sir Philip Hampton Nominations Committee Chairman 27 January 2015 N/A
Urs Rohner Remuneration Committee member 1 January 2015 N/A
Remuneration Committee Chairman 8 May 2015
Lynn Elsenhans Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman 8 May 2015 N/A
(member since 1 October 2012)
Vindi Banga Audit & Risk, Remuneration and 1 January 2016 N/A
Nominations Committee member
Professor Sir Roy Corporate Responsibility Committee member 1 May 2016 N/A
Anderson
Dr Jesse Goodman Corporate Responsibility Committee member 1 May 2016 N/A
Sir Christopher Gent Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman, N/A 7 May 2015
Remuneration and Nominations Committee member
Tom de Swaan Remuneration Committee Chairman, N/A 7 May 2015
Audit & Risk and Nominations Committee member
Jing Ulrich Audit & Risk Committee member N/A 7 May 2015
Board and committee changes We are committed to the diversity of our boardroom and we are
The ongoing refreshment of the Board has resulted in orderly similarly committed to equal opportunities for all our employees at
and planned changes in the composition of the Board and its all levels of the organisation. The diversity and inclusiveness of our
Committees during the year on the recommendation of the workforce are promoted throughout GSK.
Committee. These changes, including the planned retirements of
A key requirement of an effective board is that it comprises a range
Dr Stephanie Burns, Sir Deryck Maughan, Dr Daniel Podolsky and
and balance of skills, experience, knowledge, gender and
Hans Wijers from the Board at the close of the AGM in May 2016,
independence, with individuals that are prepared to challenge
are set out below.
each other and work as a team. This needs to be backed by a
Board appointments and retirements diversity of personal attributes, including character, intellect, sound
The refreshment of the Board has led to the following orderly judgement, honesty and courage.
changes of Board members.
The Committee is responsible for developing measurable
objectives to support the implementation of the Board’s diversity
Director Appointment date Retirement date policy, including gender, and monitoring progress towards the
achievement of these objectives. In terms of the balance of Board
Sir Philip Hampton 1 January 2015 N/A
gender diversity, we exceeded the target of at least 25% by 2013
Urs Rohner 1 January 2015 N/A
that we had set ourselves in May 2011 and our current female
Vindi Banga 1 September 2015 N/A Board level representation stands at 27%. We have noted Lord
Dr Jesse Goodman 1 January 2016 N/A Davies’ new target to increase female board representation to at
least 33% by 2020 as set out in his ‘Women on Boards: Five Year
Sir Christopher Gent N/A 7 May 2015
Summary’ report published in October 2015.
Tom de Swaan N/A 7 May 2015
We also have a good representation of women in management
Jing Ulrich N/A 7 May 2015
positions which is illustrated on page 47 as part of the gender
Dr Stephanie Burns N/A 5 May 2016 diversity of GSK’s global workforce. We will continue to support
Sir Deryck Maughan N/A 5 May 2016 efforts to further increase the pipeline of women into senior
positions within GSK. We also support the engagement of
Dr Daniel Podolsky N/A 5 May 2016
executive search firms such as MWM, Egon Zehnder and Korn
Hans Wijers N/A 5 May 2016
Ferry, who have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for
Executive Search Firms on gender diversity and best practice.
Board composition and diversity
We are mindful of the need to balance the composition of the Board Committee evaluation
and its Committees and to refresh them progressively over time so The Committee’s annual evaluation was internally facilitated by
that we can draw upon the experience of longer serving Directors, the Company Secretary on behalf of the Committee Chairman, and
while tapping into the new external perspectives and insights which supplemented by a questionnaire circulated to Committee
more recent appointees bring to the Board’s deliberations. members. It was concluded that the Committee continued to
operate effectively.
Non-Executive Directors are drawn from a wide range of industries
and backgrounds, including pharmaceutical and healthcare, In terms of enhancements to the Committee’s work it was agreed
medical research and academia, and retail, insurance and financial that more focus should be directed to forward planning for
services, and have appropriate experience of complex organisations executive succession. Replenishment of the Board in anticipation
with global reach. Some have considerable experience of the of Directors rotating off the Board would also be a key priority.
pharmaceutical industry and the more recent appointees bring a
new approach to the Group, and to Board discussions.
GSK Annual Report 2015 97Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Corporate governance
continued
Membership
Corporate Responsibility Committee Report
The membership of the Committee, together with appointment
dates and attendance at meetings, is set out below:
Attendance at
full meetings
Members Committee member since during 2015
Lynn Elsenhans 1 October 2012 3/3
(Chairman from 8 May 2015)
Lynn Elsenhans
Corporate Responsibility Dr Stephanie Burns 6 December 2007 3/3
Committee Chairman Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 July 2006 3/3
Hans Wijers 10 October 2013 3/3
Dear Shareholder Sir Christopher Gent* 9 December 2004 1/1
I would like to thank my predecessor, Sir Christopher Gent, for
* Sir Christopher Gent (who served as Committee Chairman to 7 May 2015)
his strong leadership of the Committee over the last 10 years,
retired from the Board on 7 May 2015.
which under his stewardship has overseen the development and
refinement of GSK’s CR Principles into our current Responsible Professor Sir Roy Anderson and Dr Jesse Goodman have been
Business Commitments. In addition, the Committee has acted as appointed to the Committee with effect from 1 May 2016.
custodian of the policies and practices that define and safeguard
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and
the reputation of the company. As the new Chair of the Committee
attends all meetings. Other attendees at Committee meetings
I will seek to build on his legacy as the Committee continues to
may include:
challenge and shape the company’s responsible business agenda.
The Committee members bring a wide range of experience and Regular Attends
Attendee attendee as required
insight from across different sectors to provide oversight of the
company’s responsible business opportunities and risks. This has Chief Executive Officer (cid:22)
been invaluable in relation to the Committee’s assessment of the Company Chairman (cid:22)
corporate responsibility challenges of integrating the Novartis
Chairman, Global Vaccines (cid:22)
assets the company acquired during a year of substantial change.
General Counsel (cid:22)
I have been particularly pleased that the work of the Committee
Head of Communications & Government Affairs (cid:22)
this year has focused on issues that are material to GSK’s mission,
strategy and values. Much of our discussions have focused on how Head of Pharmaceuticals (cid:22)
the company seeks to balance the need for a return on investment Head of Pharmaceuticals R&D (cid:22)
for innovation with the need to price its products appropriately to
Head of Human Resources (cid:22)
drive access for a broad range of patients. In addition, we have
Head of External & Market Communication (cid:22)
considered the ways in which GSK continues to build its
commitment to operating transparently and with integrity through Head of Global Corporate Responsibility (cid:22)
its commercial model transformation. Other Executives (cid:22)
I am also pleased that we continue to enjoy positive engagement Independent external corporate
(cid:22)
with investors on our Responsible Business Commitments which responsibility adviser
have included, in particular, a focus on our approach to addressing
Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABAC) issues from a reputational
Independent External Corporate Responsibility Adviser
perspective, the changes to how we sell and market our medicines
to healthcare professionals, access and innovation, and clinical To augment our engagement with stakeholder opinion, in May 2013,
trials transparency disclosures. Sophia Tickell was appointed as an independent external adviser to
the Committee, a position that she had previously held from March
2009 to July 2011. Ms Tickell has extensive experience in the
pharmaceuticals industry in improving health systems productivity,
Lynn Elsenhans sustainability in energy supply and distribution, climate change
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman policy and short-termism in financial markets.
16 March 2016 She is the co-founder and Director of Meteos, from where she
directs the Pharma Futures Series, which aims to align better
societal and shareholder value. She holds a number of other board
and advisory roles.
Ms Tickell attended meetings of the Committee and provided
independent advice and guidance on corporate and social
responsibility matters to both the Chairman and the CEO.
98 GSK Annual Report 2015GSK Annual Report 2015 99
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Main responsibilities • Our people: enabling our people to thrive and develop
The main responsibilities of the Committee are set out on page 82. as individuals to deliver our mission
The Committee has a rolling agenda and receives reports from • Our planet: growing our business while reducing our
members of the CET and senior managers to ensure that progress environmental impact across the value chain.
in meeting our Responsible Business Commitments within four
In addition, at each meeting the Committee considers possible
areas of focus is reviewed on an annual basis as follows:
emerging issues that may have a bearing on the Company’s
• Health for all: innovating to address currently unmet health reputation of interaction with its stakeholders. The Committee
needs; improving access to our products, irrespective of where also reviews and approves the Responsible Business Supplement
people live or their ability to pay; and controlling or eliminating which is available for reference on www.gsk.com/responsibility.
diseases affecting the world’s most vulnerable people.
• Our behaviour: putting the interests of patients and consumers
first, driven by our values in everything we do and backed by
robust policies and strong compliance processes.
Work of the Committee during 2015
During 2015, the Committee focused its core remit on the matters set out below, and in doing so, the reports it received highlighted
the evolving challenges in these areas including, in particular, the impact of the Novartis transaction.
CR Focus area Committee’s area of focus during 2015
Health for all • Flexible and open R&D approach for diseases of the developing world and other areas of great medical
need, such as antibiotics and dementia.
• GSK’s approach to pricing, in particular how to balance returns for investment in innovation alongside
the need to support access to medicines.
• Vaccines strategy to support global public health priorities, including pricing models, Malaria vaccine
and Ebola response.
Our behaviour • Global incentive compensation program and selling competency model.
• Changes to how GSK engages with healthcare professionals.
• Further embedding values-based decision making in the organisation, including training and
compliance.
• Progress on work to align Third Parties with GSK’s standards and expectations
• Conduct and public disclosure of clinical research, transparency of detailed data behind trial results
and patient safety
• Replacement, refinement and reduction in use of animals in research and development
Our people • Organisational change and employee relations
• Inclusion and diversity
• Leadership, development and approach to performance management
• Employee health, safety and wellbeing
• Insights from the staff survey
• Employee health, safety and wellbeing
Our planet • Environmental performance across carbon, water and waste impacts
Committee evaluation
The Committee’s annual evaluation was internally facilitated by the Company Secretary, and supplemented by a questionnaire
circulated to Committee members on behalf of the Committee Chairman. It was concluded that the Committee continued to operate
effectively. In terms of enhancements to the Committee’s deliberations it was agreed that the Committee would on a regular basis
look to take a more advanced long-term perspective on how the company may be impacted by the external environment.100 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Corporate governance
continued
The Nominations Committee reviewed the register of potential
Directors
conflict authorisations in January 2016 and reported to the Board
Our Directors’ powers are determined by UK legislation and our that the conflicts had been appropriately authorised and that the
Articles of Association, which contain rules about the appointment process for authorisation continues to operate effectively. Except
and replacement of Directors. They provide that Directors may be as described in Note 35 to the financial statements, ‘Related party
appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by a transactions’, during or at the end of the financial year no Director
resolution of the Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, or connected person had any material interest in any contract of
a Director appointed in this way retires at the first AGM following significance with a Group company.
his or her appointment.
Independent advice
Our Articles also provide that Directors should normally be subject The Company has an agreed procedure for Directors to take
to re-election at the AGM at intervals of three years or annually if independent legal and/or financial advice at the company’s
they have held office for a continuous period of nine years or more. expense where they deem it necessary.
However, the Board agreed in 2011 that all Directors who wish to
Indemnification of Directors
continue as members of the Board should seek re-election
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in the
annually in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Companies Act 2006) are in force for the benefit of Directors and
A Director may cease to be a Director if he or she: former Directors who held office during 2015 and up to the signing
• becomes bankrupt of the Annual Report.
• ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Change of control and essential contracts
Act or the Articles
We do not have contracts or other arrangements which individually
• suffers mental or physical ill health and the Board resolves are fundamental to the ability of the business to operate effectively,
that he or she shall cease to be a Director nor is the company party to any material agreements that would take
• has missed Directors’ meetings for a continuous period of six effect, be altered, or terminate upon a change of control following
months without permission and the Board resolves that he or a takeover bid. We do not have agreements with any Director that
she shall cease to be a Director would provide compensation for loss of office or employment
• is prohibited from being a Director by law resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the company’s
• resigns, or offers to resign and the Board accepts that offer share plans may cause options and awards granted under such
plans to vest on a takeover. Details of the termination provisions in
• is required to resign by the Board
the company’s framework for contracts for Executive Directors are
Directors’ conflicts of interest given in the full version of the company’s remuneration policy report
All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a which is available at www.gsk.com in the Investors section.
situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or indirect conflict
of interest or possible conflict with the company. Our Articles provide
a general power for the Board to authorise such conflicts.
The Nominations Committee has been authorised by the Board
to grant and regularly review any potential or actual conflict
authorisations, which are recorded by the Company Secretary
and noted by the Board. Directors are not counted in the quorum
for the authorisation of their own actual or potential conflicts.
On an ongoing basis, the Directors are responsible for informing
the Company Secretary of any new actual or potential conflicts
that may arise or if there are any changes in circumstances that
may affect an authorisation previously given. Even when provided
with authorisation, a Director is not absolved from his or her
statutory duty to promote the success of the company. If an actual
conflict arises post-authorisation, the Board may choose to
exclude the Director from receipt of the relevant information and
participation in the debate, or suspend the Director from the
Board, or, as a last resort, require the Director to resign.GSK Annual Report 2015 101
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Directors continued
Directors’ Report
For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the Directors’
Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December
2015 comprises pages 73 to 101 of the Corporate Governance
Report, the Directors’ Responsibility Statements on pages 130
and 211 and pages 231 to 258 of Investor Information. The
Strategic report sets out those matters required to be disclosed
in the Directors’ Report which are considered to be of strategic
importance to the company, as follows:
• risk management objectives and policies (pages 16, 17
and 72)
• likely future developments of the company (throughout the
Strategic report)
• research and development activities (pages 18 to 31)
• diversity and inclusion (page 47)
• provision of information to, and consultation with, employees
(page 46)
• carbon emissions (page 48)
The following information is also incorporated into the
Directors’ Report:
Location in Annual Report
Financial statements,
Interest capitalised
Notes 17 and 19
Publication of unaudited financial information Group financial review, page 51
Details of any long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report
Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable
Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable
Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash
Not applicable
by any unlisted major subsidiary undertaking
Parent company participation in a placing
Not applicable
by a listed subsidiary
Provision of services by a controlling
Not applicable
shareholder
Financial statements,
Shareholder waiver of dividends
Notes 15 and 42
Financial statements,
Shareholder waiver of future dividends
Notes 15 and 42
Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable
The Directors’ Report has been drawn up and presented in
accordance with and in reliance upon English company law and
the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall
be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
The Directors’ Report was approved by the Board of Directors on
16 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
Philip Hampton
Chairman
16 March 2016102 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Remuneration report
Chairman’s annual statement
Dear Shareholder The Committee believes that significant shareholdings remain a key
mechanism for aligning the personal interests of our executives with
Following the 2015 AGM, I succeeded Tom de Swaan as Chair of the interests of long-term shareholders. Sir Andrew’s shareholding
the Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’), and I am pleased is over 10 times his base salary in GSK shares, which is well in
to present to you our Remuneration Report for 2015. I would also excess of his share ownership requirement of four times his base
like to take this opportunity to thank Tom on behalf of the salary.
Committee for his leadership during his time as its Chairman.
As disclosed in our 2014 Remuneration Report, the setting of
Remuneration decisions in respect of 2015 adjusted free cash flow and R&D new product targets for LTI
2015 marked further substantial progress against our strategy of awards granted in 2015 was delayed pending the completion
creating a balanced group of three world leading businesses in of the Novartis transaction. Targets for these awards were
Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, with a clear agreed and details of the adjusted free cash flow target were
aim to deliver growth and improve returns to shareholders. The communicated via a stock exchange announcement on 31 July
Group is in a strong position to succeed as a long-term business 2015. Given the significance of the transaction, the Committee
with global scale and less exposure to risk and volatility. In the past also considered the impact of the changes on targets for the
year, we have accelerated new product sales growth, integrated the outstanding 2013 and 2014 LTI awards. The key principle was
new businesses in Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare and to ensure that the incentives continued to operate as originally
restructured our Pharmaceuticals business. Our financial results intended. The Committee has focussed on ensuring that the stretch
were ahead of the guidance set out towards the start of the year, of performance targets was retained and that incentives continued
and we believe we are well positioned to return to Core earnings to measure performance against the strategic objectives originally
per share growth in 2016. identified at grant. Details of the decisions reached are set out
Against this background, the key decisions made by the in the following report.
Committee in respect of 2015 remuneration were as follows: Agenda for 2016
• The bonus outcomes for the Executive Directors were No material changes to executive remuneration are proposed
determined by reference to performance against the agreed for 2016. The Committee decided that salary levels for Executive
financial measures, as well as the Committee’s assessment Directors would be increased by 2.5% effective 1 January 2016.
of their individual performance. GSK achieved performance This is consistent with the salary increase budget for our broader
in excess of the relevant financial targets for the year. The employee populations in the UK and US. Given that our
improved performance for 2015, together with the assessment Remuneration Policy will expire at our 2017 AGM, this year the
of individual performance and contribution, resulted in bonus Committee will be undertaking a review of GSK’s remuneration
awards for 2015 which were ahead of the previous year. I would arrangements. As part of this review we will continue our regular
draw shareholders’ attention to the detailed disclosure in the dialogue with shareholders and will hold our annual meetings
following report of our annual bonus plan and of the bonuses with GSK’s largest investors later in the year to listen to their views
earned. We have further enhanced the reporting of our annual and feedback. Meanwhile, if any shareholders have any feedback
bonus plan and of the bonuses to be paid, to help shareholders on our current remuneration arrangements, or views on where
understand how these awards were earned. I hope that we should focus the review, please do not hesitate to pass
shareholders will join me in welcoming these enhanced those comments for my attention to our Company Secretary,
disclosures. Victoria Whyte.
AGM
• Vesting of the 2013 Performance Share Plan and Deferred
Annual Bonus Plan awards was based on the agreed measures Finally, I would like to thank shareholders for their input and
of relative TSR, adjusted free cash flow, R&D new products engagement during my first year as Chairman of the Committee
and business diversification performance, each over the three and I welcome all shareholders’ feedback on this report. We look
years to 31 December 2015. The overall vesting level achieved forward to receiving your support for our 2015 Remuneration
for the 2013 LTI awards was 37.75%. Further details of that Report at our AGM on 5 May 2016.
achievement are also presented in the following report.
Urs Rohner
Remuneration Committee Chairman
16 March 2016GSK Annual Report 2015 103
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
Executive Directors’ remuneration summary
Remuneration principles and policy
Principles The Committee believes in pay for performance and that Executive Directors’ remuneration should be designed to promote
the long-term success of the company. The Committee seeks to ensure that performance-related elements of the Executive
Directors’ remuneration are transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
Policy The Committee considers the company’s shareholder approved remuneration policy, our Executive Directors’ pay
comparator groups and pay levels for the wider employee population of the Group when determining the total individual
pay packages of the Executive Directors. The balance between the fixed, short-term variable and long-term variable
elements of pay is carefully reviewed, with overall packages weighted heavily towards the latter to closely align Executive
Directors’ interests with those of shareholders.
The table below summarises how the Committee sets each element of the remuneration packages for our Executive Directors.
Fixed Pay
Base salary Salaries are reviewed annually, supported by data from relevant comparator groups, taking into account the 105
Executive Director’s role, experience and performance as well as the average increases for the broader GSK
workforce. Salary levels in respect of 2016 are as follows: Sir Andrew Witty – £1,114,500; Simon Dingemans –
£735,600 and Dr Moncef Slaoui – $1,242,100.
Other benefits Principally healthcare, car, personal financial advice, life assurance, assignment and travel expenses. 105
Pension
UK Executives Sir Andrew Witty, who joined the group in 1991, and certain other UK Executives are members of legacy final salary 106
plans, which have been closed to new entrants since 2001. From 2013, increases in pensionable earnings have
been limited to 2% per annum. Otherwise, GSK operates a defined contribution plan for UK Executives. Simon
Dingemans is not a member of a plan for pension contributions but instead receives cash in lieu of contributions.
US Executives GSK operates the Cash Balance Pension Plan, and the GSK 401(k) Plan, a savings scheme. The Supplemental 106
Cash Balance Pension Plan and the Executive Supplemental Savings Plan (ESSP), a savings scheme, are open to
Dr Moncef Slaoui and certain other US Executives to accrue benefits above US Government limits imposed on the
401(k) Plan and the Cash Balance Pension Plan.
Pay for performance
Safeguards The company has long standing clawback and malus arrangements under its LTI and bonus plans for Executive 113
and risk Directors and other Executives that enable the company to recover sums paid or withhold the payment of any
management sum, on the occurrence of a triggering event (e.g. significant misconduct by way of violation of regulation, law, or a
significant GSK policy, such as the Code of Conduct).
Annual bonus The target and maximum bonus opportunities 107
for the Executive Directors are as follows: • The majority of the bonus is based on achievement of
Target Maximum challenging financial targets (core Group/business unit
% of % of operating profit and core Group profit before interest and tax)
salary salary as agreed by the Board and the Committee
CEO 125 200 • Individual performance against pre-determined personal
CFO 80 180 objectives
Chairman, Global Vaccines 85 200
Deferred Individuals must defer 25%, and may defer • PSP and DAPB matching awards are based on the following 109
Annual up to a total of 50%, of any bonus earned. three equally weighted performance measures over a three- to
Bonus Plan Deferred bonuses may be matched up to year period: 110
(DABP)
one-for-one subject to performance criteria. – R&D new product performance*;
– Adjusted free cash flow*; and
– Relative TSR+.
* 2 5% vests at threshold, rising to 100% for stretching
performance exceeding the set threshold by a
Performance The performance share awards for the specified margin. 109
Share Plan Executive Directors are as follows: + Against a comparator group comprising GSK and nine to
(PSP) % of salary other pharmaceutical companies based on a vesting 110
schedule of 30% vesting at median, rising to 100%
CEO 600
vesting for upper quartile performance.
CFO 400
• PSP awards are subject to a three-year performance period
Chairman, Global Vaccines 500
and an additional two-year vesting period.104 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
Total remuneration for 2015 (audited)
Value earned
Annual from long-term Total
Salary Benefits + Pension
+ bonus incentive = remuneration
awards
A. Fixed pay B. Pension C. Pay for performance
The total remuneration for 2015 for each Executive Director is set out in the table below:
Sir Andrew Witty, Simon Dingemans, Dr Moncef Slaoui,
CEO CFO Chairman, Global Vaccines
2015 % of 2014 % of 2015 % of 2014 % of 2015 % of 2014 % of
£000 total £000 total £000 total £000 total $000 total $000 total
A. Fixed pay
Salary 1,087 1,087 718 718 1,212 1,212
Benefits 110 70 82 79 545 571
Total fixed pay 1,197 18% 1,157 30% 800 25% 797 43% 1,757 24% 1,783 41%
B. Pension 458 7% 671 17% 144 5% 144 8% 1,316(3) 18% 365 8%
C. Pay for performance
Annual bonus – including the
amount deferred 2,175 917 989 446 1,632 1,108
Value earned from LTI awards:
Matching awards under Deferred
Annual Bonus Plan(1) 194 122 73 72 274 144
Performance Share Plan 2,637 1,035 1,160 398 2,345 939
Total value earned from LTI awards 2,831 1,157 1,233 470 2,619 1,083
Total pay for performance 5,006 75% 2,074 53% 2,222 70% 916 49% 4,251 58% 2,191 51%
Total remuneration(2) 6,661 3,902 3,166 1,857 7,324 4,339
Deferral of 2015 annual bonus Number Number Number
% £000 of shares % £000 of shares % $000 of ADS
Amount of bonus deferred 25 544 50 494 50 816
Number of shares or ADS purchased 40,003 36,381 20,854
Full details of each of the elements of ‘Total remuneration’ above are given on the following pages of this report.
Fixed Pay Pension Pay for performance
Base salary Pages 105 and 111 Page 106 Annual bonus Pages 107, 108 and 111
Other benefits Pages 105 and 111 Value earned from LTI awards Pages 109, 110 and 119 onwards
Notes:
(1) Please note that the 2014 values shown differ from those disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report as the DABP value was based on an
estimated vesting price of £14.14/$44.76. This has now been valued based on a fair market value of £15.60/$46.73; the closing share
prices from the business day prior to the vesting date.
(2) The Committee may in specific circumstances, and in line with stated principles, apply clawback/malus, as it determines appropriate.
Following due consideration by the Committee, there has been no recovery of sums paid (clawback) or reduction of outstanding
awards or vesting levels (malus) applied during 2015 in respect of any of the Executive Directors.
(3) The difference in the 2015 and 2014 pension values for Dr Slaoui is due to movements in the interest rate assumption (IRA) used in the
projection to age 65. The IRA had decreased from 2013 to 2014 but then increased slightly from 2014 to 2015.GSK Annual Report 2015 105
Strategic
report
Governance
& remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Total remuneration Fixed pay (audited)
The following sections provide details of each element of ‘Total Salary
remuneration’, including how the Committee implemented the The table below sets out the base salaries of the Executive
approved remuneration policy in 2015 and how it will be applied Directors over the last two years and for 2016.
in 2016.
Base salary
Comparator groups for pay and performance %
change 2016 2015 2014
The Committee uses two primary pay comparator groups when
Sir Andrew Witty 2.5% £1,114,500 £1,087,300 £1,087,300
considering executive pay:
Simon Dingemans 2.5% £735,600 £717,700 £717,700
UK cross-industry Global pharmaceutical Dr Moncef Slaoui 2.5% $1,242,100 $1,211,800 $1,211,800
comparator group comparator group
Benefits (audited)
Anglo American France Sanofi
The following table shows a breakdown of the grossed up cash
AstraZeneca Switzerland Novartis value of the benefits received by the Executive Directors in 2015
BG Group Roche Holdings and 2014.
BHP Billiton UK AstraZeneca
Sir Andrew Simon Dr Moncef
BP US AbbVie* Witty Dingemans Slaoui
British American Tobacco Amgen* 2015 benefits £000 £000 $000
Diageo Bristol-Myers Squibb Employee benefits(1) 26 29 216
Reckitt Benckiser Eli Lilly Travel(2) 48 39 86
Rio Tinto Johnson & Johnson Other benefits(3) 36 14 243
Royal Dutch Shell Merck & Co Total 2015 benefits 110 82 545
SAB Miller Pfizer 2014 benefits
Tesco Employee benefits(1) 20 24 136
Unilever Travel(2) 42 42 105
Vodafone Other benefits(3) 8 13 330
Total 2014 benefits 70 79 571
* Amgen and AbbVie are included for remuneration benchmarking, but
are not included in the TSR comparator group.
(1) Employee benefits include all employee share plans, healthcare, car
The global pharmaceutical comparator group is also used as the allowance, personal financial advice, and life assurance/death in
basis for the TSR comparator group which features in our long-term service.
incentive awards. The primary pay comparator group for each of
(2) Travel expenses include car, travel and spouse/partner costs
the Executive Directors is shown in the table below: associated with accompanying the director on GSK business,
Primary pay comparator group which are deemed to be taxable benefits on the individual.
UK Global (3) Other benefits comprise expenses incurred in the ordinary course
Director cross-industry pharmaceutical of business, which are deemed to be taxable benefits on the
Sir Andrew Witty (cid:22) individual and, as such, have been included in the table above.
Simon Dingemans (cid:22) For Dr Slaoui, this includes UK accommodation of $225,806 in
Dr Moncef Slaoui (cid:22) 2015 ($326,610 in 2014).
When reviewing the CEO’s remuneration, the Committee also
references pay for a group of leading European companies whose
selection is based on their size and complexity.
Summary of total remuneration competitive positioning
for the CEO
Total remuneration benchmarking (£m)
12
10
8
6
4
UK cross-industry Global pharmaceutical European cross-industry
group group group
Lower quartile to median Median to upper quartile Current position
Benchmarking includes salary and the expected value of incentives based on
the Committee’s agreed benchmarking methodology.106 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
Pension (audited)
Pension arrangements
Sir Andrew Sir Andrew Witty is a member of the Glaxo Wellcome defined benefit pension plan, which has been closed to new entrants since 2001.
Witty The section of the plan that Sir Andrew is a member of provides for a normal retirement age of 60 and a maximum pension value of
2/3rds of pensionable salary. Since 1 April 2013, pensionable earnings increases have been limited to 2% per annum for all members,
including Sir Andrew.
Simon Simon Dingemans is not a member of any GSK pension plan for pension contributions and instead receives a cash payment in lieu
Dingemans of pension of 20% of base salary in line with GSK’s defined contribution pension plan rates.
Simon Dingemans receives death in service and ill-health insurance that is provided as part of the pension plan. This has been
included in his employee benefits on page 105.
Dr Moncef Dr Slaoui is a member of the Cash Balance Pension Plan and the Supplemental Cash Balance Pension Plan which provides for
Slaoui an Executive Pension Credit. GSK makes annual contributions to Dr Slaoui’s pension plans of 38% of his base salary. The plans
provide a cash sum at retirement and the fund increases at an interest rate set annually in advance, based on the 30 year US Treasury
bond rate. The plan has no entitlement to a spouse’s pension or to pension increases. He was an active member of the Belgium AG
Insurance (ex-Fortis) Plan (Belgian Plan) until 31 May 2006 and has been a deferred member since. This plan is a defined benefit plan
with a lump sum payable at a normal retirement age of 60. There are no further company contributions to this plan.
Dr Slaoui is also a member of the 401(k) plan open to all US employees and the ESSP, a savings scheme open to executives to accrue
benefits above US government limits imposed on the 401(k) Plan. Contributions to both plans are invested in a range of funds. The
combined contribution rate under the plans is up to 6% (2% core contributions plus a match of up to 4%) of total base salary and
bonus, less any bonus deferred under the DABP.
The following table shows the breakdown of the pension values set out on page 104.
Sir Andrew Witty Simon Dingemans Dr Moncef Slaoui
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
Pension remuneration values £000 £000 £000 £000 000 000
UK defined benefit 472 703 – – – –
US defined benefit – – – – $1,191 $157
Belgian defined benefit – – – – €51 €58
Employer cash contributions – – 144 144 $68 $131
Member contributions to
defined benefit plans (14) (32) – – – –
Total pension remuneration value 458 671 144 144 $1,316 $365
a) The pension remuneration figures have been calculated in accordance with the methodology set out in The Large and Medium-sized
Companies and Group (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (Remuneration Regulations). In calculating the defined benefit
pension values for 2015, the difference between the accrued pension as at 31 December 2015 and the accrued pension as at 31 December
2014 increased by inflation (1.2% for UK defined benefit, 0.5% for US defined benefit, 0.5% for Belgian defined benefit) has been multiplied
by 20. Where this results in a negative value, this has been deemed to be zero. In calculating total values, amounts have been translated from
Euros into US dollars using an exchange rate of 1.12 for 2015 and 1.33 for 2014.
b) For Sir Andrew, further details regarding the 2015 pension values are set out in the table below.
Accrued pension as at Accrued pension as at Pension remuneration
Sir Andrew Witty
31 December 2015 (£ p.a.) 31 December 2014 (£ p.a.) value for 2015 (£000)
UK – Funded 71,648 70,810 –
UK – Unfunded 644,459 613,521 472
Total 716,107 684,331 472
Sir Andrew joined GSK predecessor companies in 1991 and progressed through roles of increasing seniority within GSK until he was appointed
CEO in May 2008. During this time, he built up pensionable service through the different tiers of the Glaxo Wellcome Pension Plan. His current
pension entitlement is a product of his service and progression within GSK.
c) For Dr Moncef Slaoui, further details regarding the 2015 pension values are set out in the table below.
Accrued pension as at Accrued pension as at Pension remuneration
Dr Moncef Slaoui
31 December 2015 (p.a.) 31 December 2014 (p.a.) value for 2015 (000)
US – Funded $14,473 $12,310 $42
US – Unfunded $396,297 $337,157 $1,149
Belgium – Funded €91,000 €88,000 €51
US – 401(k) & ESSP – – $68
Total $1,316
Dr Slaoui joined GSK predecessor companies in 1988 and he progressed through a number of senior roles within GSK until he was
appointed Chairman, Research & Development in 2006 and then Chairman, Global Vaccines in 2014. During this time, he has built up pensionable
service in the Belgian Plan, the Cash Balance and Supplemental Pension Plans. Annual employer cash contributions were made to the 401(k) Plan
and ESSP. His current pension entitlement is a product of his service and progression within GSK. The difference in the 2015 and 2014 pension
values is due to movements in the interest rate assumption (IRA) used in the projection to age 65. The IRA had decreased from 2013 to 2014 but
then increased slightly from 2014 to 2015.GSK Annual Report 2015 107
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pay for performance (audited)
Annual bonus
The majority of the annual bonus opportunity is based on a formal review of performance against stretching financial targets.
This outcome is then adjusted to reflect individual performance by applying an individual performance multiplier (IPM).
The IPM is set by the Committee taking into account performance against individual objectives. The multiplier may be set between
0% and 150%. Generally, in a year when an Executive Director has performed strongly against all of his objectives, it would be
expected that they would receive an IPM towards the top of that range.
For 2015, the annual bonus was based on the following financial measures and weightings.
2015 performance
against targets Core Group operating profit Core Group PBIT Vaccines performance
Weighting
Sir Andrew Witty 75% 25% –
Simon Dingemans 75% 25% –
Dr Moncef Slaoui – 25% 75%
2015 performance
Target £6,092 million £5,885 million £850 million
Outcome £6,405 million £6,224 million £896 million
The core Group operating profit and core Group PBIT targets and outcomes for the purpose of annual bonuses differ from core Group
operating profit and PBIT disclosed elsewhere in this Annual Report primarily because both the target and outcome numbers are
calculated applying GSK budget exchange rates and not actual exchange rates. The core Group operating profit measure excludes
corporate costs, but these costs are included in core Group PBIT.
The following table shows actual bonuses earned compared to opportunity for 2015 and 2014.
Bonus opportunity Total bonus Bonus earned
2015
Base salary Target Maximum 2015 2014 2015 2014
Bonus £/$000 (% of salary) (% of salary) (% of salary) (% of salary) £/$000 £/$000
Sir Andrew Witty £1,087 125% 200% 200% 84% £2,175 £917
Simon Dingemans £718 80% 180% 138% 62% £989 £446
Dr Moncef Slaoui $1,212 85% 200% 135% 91% $1,632 $1,108
The table below sets out the matters which the Committee considered in respect of the financial measures and weightings set for the
Executive Directors.
Financial performance
Core Group Group turnover increased 6% CER on a reported basis to £23,923 million and 1% CER on a pro-forma basis. Core
operating profit Group operating profit and core Group profit before interest and tax were ahead of targets set for 2015. Profits benefited
and core Group from the acceleration in sales of new products together with cost savings released by the Group’s restructuring and
profit before integration programmes. Offsetting these benefits were declines in sales of Seretide/Advair, lower sales of Established
interest and tax Products and the investments made to support the new product launches. The short-term dilution of the Novartis
transaction together with an adverse comparison to 2014, which included an SG&A credit, also impacted core operating
profit in 2015. Excluding both of these, the core operating margin declined 0.2 percentage points.
Vaccines Vaccines sales were £3,675 million, up 19% CER and up 3% on a pro-forma basis in 2015. The pro-forma growth was
performance primarily driven by Bexsero sales in Europe and strong Rotarix, Fluarix/FluLaval and Boostrix sales in the US. Vaccines
operating profit was £966 million, down 9% CER primarily reflecting inclusion of the cost base acquired from the former
Novartis vaccines business. On a pro-forma basis, Vaccines operating profit was up 7%. Substantial progress was made
on the integration of the acquired business in 2015. Initial restructuring and integration benefits helped to deliver an
improvement of 0.8 percentage points in the pro-forma core operating margin of 26.4% on a CER basis in 2015.108 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
Pay for performance continued
The table below sets out the matters which the Committee considered in respect of the individual objectives set for each Executive Director.
Personal performance
Sir Andrew Witty Sir Andrew successfully delivered on a number of key strategic priorities for the Group including:
• Completing the highly complex Novartis transaction to create a Group of three world-leading businesses in
Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare.
• Significant progress on integration of new businesses into Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare; integration ahead
of schedule with £1 billion of incremental cost savings delivered for costs of £1.9 billion. On track to deliver
£3 billion of annual savings by the end of 2017.
• Restructuring of the Pharmaceuticals business including commercial reorganisation in the US.
• Accelerating new product performance with sales of £2 billion in 2015 and revised expectation to achieve target
of £6 billion in annual sales of new products by 2018, two years ahead of previous plan.
• Core EPS of 75.7p, ahead of financial guidance of high teens decline.
• Profiling innovative R&D portfolio of approximately 40 assets focused on Oncology, Immuno-Inflammation,
Vaccines, Infectious, Respiratory and Rare diseases. Portfolio is expected to deliver multiple, significant milestones
in the next 24 months.
• Worldwide implementation of business model changes covering sales force incentivisation and HCP interactions.
• Successful progress on delivery of responsible business commitments with notable advances in access to
medicines and approval of new malaria vaccine.
• 2015 ordinary dividend of 80p together with special dividend of 20p to be paid from the net proceeds of the
Novartis transaction. Expectation to pay 80p full year ordinary dividend for 2016 and 2017.
Simon Dingemans Mr Dingemans delivered strong financial leadership for the Group in 2015:
• Restructuring and integration ahead of schedule with £1 billion of incremental cost savings delivered for costs of
£1.9 billion. On track to deliver £3 billion of annual savings by the end of 2017.
• Reduced net debt by £3.7 billion despite significant cash restructuring costs.
• 2015 core EPS of 75.7p, ahead of financial guidance of high teens decline.
• Effective core tax rate for the Group of 19.5%.
• Substantial progress made on deployment of new core business systems and supply chain improvements.
• 2015 ordinary dividend of 80p together with special dividend of 20p to be paid from the net proceeds of the
Novartis transaction. Expectation to pay 80p full year ordinary dividend for 2016 and 2017.
Dr Moncef Slaoui Under Dr Slaoui’s leadership, the Vaccines business delivered strong performance against plan for 2015. Vaccines
sales grew 19% to £3.7 billion with the business benefitting from sales of newly acquired products, primarily the
meningitis portfolio (Menveo/Bexsero) in Europe and the US as well as strong sales growth from legacy GSK
vaccines such as Fluarix/FluLaval, Rotarix and Boostrix in the US.
Dr Slaoui also delivered a number of strategic priorities:
• Following the completion of the Novartis transaction in March 2015, Dr Slaoui led the effective integration of the
GSK and Novartis vaccines organisations.
• Accelerated commercialisation of the acquired portfolio, particularly the meningitis portfolio.
• Significant contribution to global public health agenda with extensive research and development progress on
candidate vaccines for malaria and Ebola.
• Led successful vaccines R&D organisation; successes through the year included positive Phase III trial success
for a candidate vaccine for Shingles.GSK Annual Report 2015 109
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Value earned from long-term incentives (LTIs)
2013 awards with a performance period ended 31 December 2015 (audited)
The Committee reviewed the performance of the PSP and DABP matching awards granted to Executive Directors against targets set in
2013. The performance achieved in the three years to 31 December 2015 and the vesting levels are set out in the table below.
The Committee previously provided estimates of vesting for 2013 awards in GSK’s 2013 and 2014 Annual Reports. Those estimates
were based on performance achieved at that time and the following reflects performance achieved over the course of the whole
performance period. In line with the Committee’s agreed principles for each measure, actual performance against targets was reviewed
and adjustments made as appropriate to reflect the impact of the Novartis transaction on the business and to ensure that the vesting
outcome reflected genuine underlying business performance.
Performance Vesting
measures
and relative % of % of
weighting Performance targets and performance achieved maximum award
R&D new The R&D new product performance measure was based on an aggregate three-year revenue 82% 20.5%
product target for New Product sales. New Products are defined as products launched in the
performance performance period and the two preceding years. Therefore products launched in the years
(25%) 2011 to 2015 were included. Aggregate sales for the period were £6.19 billion.
The vesting schedule is shown below with straight-line vesting between these points. This
vesting schedule has been adjusted to exclude the impact of the Novartis transactions, i.e.
revenues from divested Oncology products were removed from the target and outcome for 2015
in determining performance. One acquired Vaccines product, Bexsero, was judged to meet the
condition of a ‘new product’ and has therefore been included in the target and outturn.
Target % vesting
Maximum £6.61bn 100%
£6.01bn 75%
£5.71bn 50%
Threshold £5.41bn 25%
Business The target originally set for this element at the time of grant was based on aggregate revenues from 69% 17.25%
diversification Vaccines, Consumer Healthcare and Emerging Markets, and Japan with the purpose of incentivising
performance and rewarding the growth of a globally diversified business.
(25%)
The Remuneration Committee determined that the original target was not sustainable in light of the
transformational three-part transaction with Novartis. The Committee therefore reviewed both the
original target and performance in light of the additional sales from the acquired Vaccines business
and the Consumer Healthcare joint venture, and overall progress made towards the strategic goal of
diversification. The Committee noted several strong performances from business initiatives over the
period including in relation to Fluarix/Flulaval following the launch of the Quadrivalent formulation,
strong Emerging Market sales from products such as Synflorix and Rotarix, progress in Japan in
transitioning the respiratory portfolio to the new Ellipta portfolio, and the successful OTC switch of
Flonase in Consumer Healthcare. All of these factors have supported the Group’s ambition of
creating a long-term business with global scale and reduced exposure to risk and volatility,
consistent with the strategic targets identified at the start of the performance period.
It was subsequently determined that in light of the progress made during the performance period,
vesting for this element should be between threshold and maximum and that 69% of this element of
the award should vest.
Adjusted free The Adjusted Free Cash Flow (AFCF) vesting schedule which was disclosed at the time of grant 0% 0%
cash flow had a vesting threshold of £14.06 billion, and maximum vesting for achieving £16.66 billion.
performance
During 2015, the Committee reviewed the target and vesting schedule in light of the completion
(25%)
of the Novartis transaction and determined that it should be adjusted to reflect the impact of the
transactions and other restructuring. The adjusted vesting schedule is:
Target % vesting
Maximum £13.88bn 100%
£13.28bn 75%
£12.07bn 50%
Threshold £11.71bn 25%
AFCF for the three years was £11.08 billion which, in line with the Committee’s agreed principles,
included adjustments for a number of material distorting items, including legal settlements,
exchange rate movements and special pension contributions. The threshold level of performance
was not met and this element therefore lapsed.
Relative TSR GSK’s TSR rank position was 10th in the comparator group of ten pharmaceutical companies 0% 0%
performance (GSK and nine other companies) and this element therefore lapsed. The vesting schedule and
(25%) comparator group is as set out for the 2016 awards on page 112.
No adjustments were made to reflect the Novartis transaction.
Total vesting in respect of 2013 awards 37.75%110 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
Update on performance of ongoing LTI awards
The Committee also reviewed the performance of the PSP and DABP matching awards granted to Executive Directors in 2014 and
2015. The following tables provide an estimate of vesting taking into account performance to date. Actual vesting levels will only be
determined based on performance over the full three-year performance periods. The indications below should therefore not be
regarded as predictions of the final vesting levels.
In line with the Committee’s agreed principles for each measure, these estimates of vesting include adjustments that will be required
to reflect the impact of the Novartis transaction on the business and to ensure that the outcome reflects genuine underlying business
performance. Further details on any adjustments made will be provided at the time of vesting.
2014 awards with a performance period ending 31 December 2016
Performance
measures
and relative
weighting Performance update
R&D new product R&D new product sales performance measures aggregate three-year sales for new products launched in the
performance three-year performance period and preceding two years, i.e. 2012-16. Threshold performance results in 25% vesting
(1/3rd) and maximum performance (122% of threshold) results in 100% vesting. There were strong sales of new products in
the two years ending 31 December 2015. Based on aggregate sales of new products for the two years, and based
on performance measure definitions, vesting is currently estimated to be around maximum.
Adjusted free The Adjusted Free Cash Flow (AFCF) vesting schedule which was disclosed at the time of grant had a vesting threshold
cash flow of £13.68 billion, and maximum vesting for achieving £16.22 billion. During 2015, the Committee reviewed the target and
performance vesting schedule in light of the completion of the Novartis transaction and determined that it should be adjusted to reflect
(1/3rd) the impact of the transactions and other restructuring.
The adjusted vesting schedule is: 25% (threshold) of the award vests for achieving AFCF of £10.92 billion, 50% for
achieving £11.26 billion, 75% for achieving £12.38 billion and 100% (maximum) for achieving £12.95 billion, with
straight-line vesting between these points. Based on AFCF for the two years ending 31 December 2015, and on
performance measure definitions, vesting is currently estimated to be below threshold.
Relative TSR For the period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2015, GSK’s TSR rank position was 10th in the comparator group of
performance ten pharmaceutical companies (GSK and nine other companies). The vesting schedule and comparator group are as
(1/3rd) set out for the 2016 awards on page 112. If the ranking position remains at this level, vesting would be below
threshold.
Current estimate of potential total vesting for 2014 awards Between 25% and 50% vesting
2015 awards with a performance period ending 31 December 2017
Performance
measures
and relative
weighting Performance update
R&D new product R&D new product sales performance measures aggregate three-year sales for new products launched in the
performance three-year performance period and preceding two years, i.e. 2013-17. Threshold performance results in 25%
(1/3rd) vesting and maximum performance (122% of threshold) results in 100% vesting. There were strong sales of new
products in the year ending 31 December 2015. Based on aggregate sales of new products for the year, and based
on performance measure definitions, vesting is currently estimated to be around maximum.
Adjusted free The Adjusted Free Cash Flow (AFCF) vesting schedule for the 2015 awards was determined following the completion of
cash flow the Novartis transaction and disclosed via an announcement to the Stock Exchange in July 2015.
performance
In order to fully assess disciplined use of restructuring funds over the period 2015-2017, the Committee added back
(1/3rd)
planned restructuring costs for the period of £3.3 billion which are being separately funded from retained divestment
proceeds. In order to incentivise management to deliver the restructuring at or below those planned costs, any overspend
or underspend versus the £3.3 billion will then translate into an adjustment in determining adjusted free cash flow
performance relative to target.
The vesting schedule for this award is: 25% (threshold) of the award vests for achieving AFCF of £11.5 billion, 50% for
achieving £11.9 billion, 75% for achieving £13.0 billion and 100% (maximum) for achieving £13.6 billion, with straight-line
vesting between these points. Based on AFCF for the year, and on performance measure definitions, vesting is currently
estimated to be between threshold and maximum.
Relative TSR For the period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015, GSK’s TSR rank position was 10th in the comparator group of
performance ten pharmaceutical companies (GSK and nine other companies). The vesting schedule and comparator group are as
(1/3rd) set out for the 2016 awards on page 112. If the ranking position remains at this level, vesting would be below
threshold.
Current estimate of potential total vesting for 2015 awards Between 50% and 75% vestingGSK Annual Report 2015 111
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Executive director remuneration in 2016 (audited)
Salary
For 2016, the average salary increase budget for employees below the level of the CET will be approximately 2.5% in both the UK and
the US. The Committee decided to increase Executive Directors’ salaries by 2.5% for 2016.
Benefits
No significant changes to the provision of benefits are proposed for 2016. For full details of the policy in relation to benefits, please
refer to the 2014 remuneration policy on www.gsk.com in the Investors section.
2016 operation of annual bonus plan
No changes are proposed to the operation of the annual bonus plan for 2016. Inevitably, targets linked directly to the financial and
strategic plan are commercially sensitive and the Committee does not consider it appropriate to disclose annual bonus targets during
the year as it may result in competitive harm. However, details of performance achieved will be disclosed in the 2016 Annual Report.
2016 long-term incentive awards
The levels of participation in the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) in respect of 2014 and 2015 for the Executive Directors are
shown in the table below, together with the maximum matching awards granted in 2016 in respect of the deferrals of 2015 bonuses.
The table below shows Performance Share Plan (PSP) award levels for 2015 and 2016 for each Executive Director. DABP matching
awards and PSP awards are both subject to performance and continued employment.
DABP matching awards PSP awards
2016 2015 2014 2016 2016 2015
Matching % of total bonus deferred Award Award level as % of Award level as % of
award into shares or ADS base salary base salary
Sir Andrew Witty 40,003 shares 25% 50% 492,052 shares 600% 600%
Simon Dingemans 36,381 shares 50% 50% 216,512 shares 400% 400%
Dr Moncef Slaoui 20,854 ADSs 50% 50% 158,714 ADSs 500% 500%
Performance targets for 2016 awards
The 2016 performance targets and vesting schedules are set out in the table on page 112. Measures linked directly to strategy are
commercially sensitive. In particular, the Committee does not consider it appropriate to disclose the target range for R&D new product
performance at grant, as it may result in competitive harm. However, the target range will be disclosed in full in GSK’s 2018 Annual Report
at the end of the performance period, together with details of the extent to which targets have been met. The Committee will provide
updates on estimated vesting against targets during the performance period.112 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
Executive director remuneration in 2016 continued
2016 awards with a performance period ending 31 December 2018
Performance
measures
and relative
weighting Link to strategy Vesting schedule
R&D new Recognises importance of R&D to future business growth. This Performance
product revenue target is based on new product sales to incentivise better (% of threshold) % vesting
performance R&D performance and commercialisation. New products are defined as
Maximum 122% 100%
(1/3rd) products launched in the performance period and the two preceding
years. Therefore, for the 2016-2018 performance period, products Threshold 100% 25%
launched in the years 2014-2018 will be included in the target.
Adjusted The use of cash flow as a performance measure is intended to Adjusted free
free recognise the importance of effective working capital management and cash flow % vesting
cash flow of generating cash to fund the Group’s operations, investments, and Maximum £13.8 billion 100%
performance ordinary dividends to shareholders. The free cash flow target represents
£13.2 billion 75%
(1/3rd) the operating profit of the business adjusted for non-cash items after
£12.0 billion 50%
deducting the cost or benefit of working capital, capital expenditure
and taxation, and after adding back planned restructuring costs for the Threshold £11.6 billion 25%
period of £2.3 billion which are being separately funded from retained < £11.6 billion 0%
divestment proceeds. In order to incentivise management to deliver
the restructuring at or below those planned costs, any overspend or
underspend versus the £2.3 billion will then translate into an adjustment
in determining adjusted free cash flow performance relative to target.
The adjustments to free cash flow, used to set the target for the
purpose of the performance measure, include legal settlements, special
pension contributions, foreign exchange, divestments and acquisitions.
The measure post-adjustment is the “adjusted free cash flow”.
Relative TSR Focuses on the delivery of value to shareholders.
TSR ranking
performance
Relative TSR using a comparator group comprising GSK and nine within comparator
(1/3rd)
other global pharmaceutical companies. Relative TSR is measured group1 % vesting
over three years, using a twelve-month averaging period. TSR is
Maximum 1st, 2nd, 3rd 100%
measured in local currency.
4th 72%
Threshold2 5th 44%
Median 30%
6th to 10th 0%
1 T SR comparator group: AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb,
Eli Lilly, GSK, Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co, Novartis, Pfizer,
Roche Holdings and Sanofi.
2 T he vesting schedule is based on delivering 30% vesting for median
performance. In a comparator group of ten companies, median falls
between two companies. Threshold vesting is therefore for achieving
above median performance.GSK Annual Report 2015 113
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Other remuneration and performance disclosures
CEO Remuneration table Performance graph and table
The following graph sets out the performance of the company
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 relative to the FTSE 100 index, and to the pharmaceutical
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 performance comparator group for the seven-year period to 31
December 2015. The graph has been prepared in accordance with
Single figure of the Remuneration Regulations and is not an indication of the likely
6,661 3,902 7,207 4,386 6,807 4,562 5,790
remuneration vesting of awards granted under any of the company’s incentive
plans. These indices were selected for comparison purposes as
Annual bonus they reflect both the index of which GSK is a constituent and the
award(1) 100% 42% 88% 44% 100% 59% 100% industry in which it operates.
(% of maximum)
Vesting of LTI
awards 37.75% 13.5% 31% 24% 70% (2)35% (2)35% 220
(% of maximum)
200
(1) 2009 and 2010 bonus amounts include amounts paid under the 180
Operational Efficiency Bonus in place for those years. The overall 160
maximum bonus receivable was still subject to a limit of 200% of 140
base salary.
120
(2) I n respect of the 2007 and 2008 PSP awards. Sir Andrew also had
100
outstanding awards over 195,500 and 525,000 share options,
granted in 2007 and 2008 respectively, which lapsed in full. These 80
have not been included in the total vesting percentage due to the 60
distorting effect of aggregating conditional shares and share 31/12/08 31/12/09 31/12/10 31/12/11 31/12/12 31/12/13 31/12/14 31/12/15
options. GSK Total Return GSK Pharma Peers FTSE 100
Total Return Index* Total Return Index
* This index comprises AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly,
Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche Holdings and Sanofi.
Historical vesting for GSK’s LTIs
The following table shows historical vesting levels under the company’s long-term incentive plans (Deferred Annual Bonus Plan
matching awards, Performance Share Plan and Share Option Plan) in respect of awards made to executives since 2007.
Share
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Performance Share Plan Option Plan
Vesting Vesting Vesting
Vesting under under under Vesting
Total under adjusted free R&D new business Total under
Year of vesting TSR cash flow product diversification vesting EPS
grant Performance period % % % % % % %
2007 2007–2009 n/a 35 n/a n/a n/a 35 0
2008 2008–2010 n/a 35 n/a n/a n/a 35 0
2009 2009–2011/12 n/a 9 40 n/a n/a 49 0
2010 2010–2012/13 30 9 16 n/a n/a 25 n/a
2011 2011–2013 40 0 13 16 11 40 n/a
2012 2012–2014 13.5 0 0 6.75 6.75 13.5 n/a
2013 2013–2015 37.75 0 0 20.5 17.25 37.75 n/a
For the DABP, the 2010 awards were subject wholly to TSR performance and from 2011 awards were subject to the same performance measures
as PSP awards.
Malus and clawback policy Disclosure will only be made when the matter has been the subject of
The company’s policy on malus and clawback is set out in the public reports of misconduct, where it has been fully resolved, where
company’s Remuneration policy report which is available at it is legally permissible to disclose and where it can be made without
www.gsk.com in the Investors section. The Committee has unduly prejudicing the company and therefore shareholders. In line
jurisdiction on malus and clawback in respect of the executives. with these disclosure guidelines, neither the Committee (nor the
In the event of a ‘triggering’ event (e.g. significant misconduct by Recoupment Committee) has exercised malus or clawback during
way of violation of regulation, law or significant GSK policy, such 2015.
as the Code of Conduct), the company will have the ability to claw
The Committee has determined that the release of some shares
back up to three years’ annual and deferred bonuses as well as
under the LTI plans may be delayed in the case of leavers, to
vested and unvested LTIs. The Recoupment Committee exercises
reinforce the implementation of the malus and clawback policy.
this authority for the wider employee base. It is comprised of senior
Also, in the case of deferred bonus awards under the DABP
executives with relevant oversight and appropriate experience,
granted to executives who then retire or are made redundant, the
including the Senior Vice President, Global Ethics and Compliance,
vesting of those awards will normally be delayed so that they vest
and the Senior Vice President & General Counsel.
on their original timescales rather than vesting earlier at the end of
From 1 January 2015, in respect of each financial year, the Committee the year in which the termination date falls.
discloses whether it (or the Recoupment Committee) has exercised
clawback or malus.114 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
Other remuneration and performance disclosures continued
Other all-employee share plans Percentage change in remuneration of CEO
The Executive Directors participate in various all-employee share Sir Andrew Witty UK Employees
plans, including ShareSave and ShareReward. The ShareSave
2015
Plan is an HM Revenue & Customs approved plan open to all UK £000 % change % change
employees. Participants may save up to £250 a month from their Salary 1,087 0% 1%
net salaries for a fixed term of three years and at the end of the Benefits 110 57% 0%
savings period they have the option to buy GSK shares at a
Annual bonus 2,175 137% 38%
discount of up to 20% of the market price set at the launch of each
savings contract. Sir Andrew Witty and Simon Dingemans each This reflects salary earned in, benefits received in and annual
contribute the maximum of £250 a month into the ShareSave Plan. bonus earned in respect of 2015 compared with 2014. For the
wider UK employee population, the salary increase includes the
The ShareReward Plan is an HM Revenue & Customs approved
annual salary review as well as any additional changes in the year,
plan open to all UK employees on the same terms. Participants
e.g. on promotion. The increase in benefits for the CEO is not as a
contribute up to £125 a month from their gross salaries to purchase
result of a change to his benefit arrangements. UK employee
GSK shares and the company matches the number of GSK shares
benefits are unchanged on the previous year as there have been
bought each month under this arrangement. Sir Andrew Witty and
no changes to our benefit policies or levels. It does not reflect any
Simon Dingemans each contribute the maximum of £125 a month
changes to the level of benefits an individual may have received as
to buy shares under the ShareReward Plan.
a result of a change in role, e.g. promotion. The UK population was
Dilution limits considered to be the most relevant comparison as it most closely
All awards are made under plans which incorporate dilution reflects the economic environment encountered by the CEO.
limits consistent with the guidelines published by the Investment
External appointments for Executive Directors
Association, which was formed following the merger of the IMA and
The Board encourages Executive Directors to hold one external
the ABI. These limits are 10% in any rolling ten year period for all
directorship each once they have become established in their
plans and 5% in any rolling ten year period for executive share
roles, to broaden their experience and development, and help
plans. Estimated dilution from existing awards made over the last
increase the pool of Non-Executive Director candidates.
ten years up to 31 December 2015 is as follows:
Any outside appointments are considered by the Nominations
Committee to ensure they would not cause a conflict of interest
All GSK employee share plans Executive share plans
and are then approved by the Chairman on behalf of the Board.
It is the company’s policy that remuneration earned from such
10
10% appointments may be kept by the individual Executive Director.
08 During 2015, Dr Moncef Slaoui did not receive any fees in relation
to his membership of the Qatar Biomedical Research Institute
06 Scientific Advisory Committee, as no meetings took place in the
5% period. He earned a $400 honorarium for attending a board
04
meeting of the Advisory Committee to the Director of National
02 3.05% 2.77% Institute of Health. There are no other external appointments for
which he receives any remuneration. During 2015, Sir Andrew
Witty and Simon Dingemans did not hold any external
0
appointments for which they were remunerated.
Actual Limit
Service contracts
The table below sets out the relevant dates of the current
Relative importance of spend on pay Executive Directors’ service contracts, which are available for
The table shows the percentage changes in the Group’s dividends review at the company’s registered office during office hours.
paid to shareholders, share buy-back and total employee pay.
Date of Effective
2015 2014 contract date Expiry date Notes
£m £m % change Sir Andrew 18.06.08 22.05.08 31.08.24 Contract amended
Total employee pay 8,030 7,520 7 Witty in 2010 to remove
entitlement to bonus
Dividends 3,874 3,843 1
on termination
Share buyback – 238 (100)
Simon 08.09.10 04.01.11 30.04.28
Dingemans
The figures in the table above are as set out on pages 141 and
155. Dividends declared in respect of 2015 were £3,871 million Dr Moncef 21.12.10 21.12.10 01.08.19 Contract replaced in
Slaoui 2010, principally to
(2014 – £3,865 million), i.e. an increase of 1%. Given the impact
remove entitlement to
of the sustained strength of Sterling on free cash flow, the bonus on termination
company suspended its share repurchase programme during
2014. Following the completion of the Novartis transaction, GSK Payments to past directors during 2015 (audited)
will return approximately £1 billion of the net proceeds by way of There were no payments to past directors during 2015.
a special dividend payable at the same time as the 2015 Q4
Payments for loss of office during 2015 (audited)
dividend. The special dividend is not included in the above
There were no payments for loss of office to directors during 2015.
amounts. The company does not expect to make any ordinary
share repurchases in 2016.
Total employee pay is based on 101,192 employees, the average
number of people employed during 2015 (2014 – 98,702).GSK Annual Report 2015 115
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Overview of 2015 total pay
Summary of 2015 remuneration
The following shows a breakdown of total remuneration paid to Executive Directors in respect of 2014 and 2015.
CEO CFO Chairman, Global Vaccines
£8m £8m $8m
£7m £7m $7m
£6m £6m $6m
£5m £5m $5m
£4m £4m $4m
£3m £3m $3m
£2m £2m $2m
£1m £1m $1m
£0m £0m $0m
2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015
Fixed pay – salary, benefits and pension Performance pay – annual bonus and LTIs earned
2015 annual bonus and 2013 LTI awards – summary of outcomes
The charts below illustrate:
• annual bonus outcomes for the financial year ending 31 December 2015; and
• vesting levels of the PSP and DABP matching awards that were granted to the Executive Directors in 2013 with performance
periods ending 31 December 2015. These awards were based on four equally weighted performance measures (R&D new
product performance, adjusted free cash flow, relative TSR and business diversification).
2015 financial performance 2013 LTI outcomes
Maximum Business R&D
diversification new products
25% 25%
20.5%
Target 17.25%
Threshold
0% 0%
Adjusted Relative
Core Group Core Group Vaccines
free cash flow TSR
Operating PBIT Performance
25% 25%
Profit
Maximum performance target Performance achieved Award lapsed Award vested
Executive Directors’ shareholdings (audited)
Current share ownership
To align the interests of Executive Directors with those of
shareholders, they are required to build and maintain significant
CEO
holdings of shares in GSK over time. Executive Directors are
required to continue to satisfy these shareholding requirements for
a minimum of 12 months following retirement from the company.
CFO
Current share ownership requirements (SOR) are as follows:
Share ownership requirement
CEO 4x base salary Chairman, Global Vaccines
Other Executive Directors 3x base salary
Other CET members 2x base salary
Base x2 x4 x6 x8 x10 x12
salary
Current shareholdings are illustrated in the chart opposite.
SOR 31.12.2015 shareholding116 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
Remuneration governance
The Remuneration Committee Adviser to the Committee
Remuneration Committee Chairman Urs Rohner joined the Board The Committee has access to external advice as required. The
and was appointed to the Committee on 1 January 2015. He was Committee carried out a formal review of the independent advisers
appointed Committee Chairman with effect from 8 May 2015, to the Committee in 2013. As a result of this review, the Committee
following the retirement of Tom de Swaan as Committee Chairman reappointed Deloitte LLP to provide it with independent advice on
and Non-Executive Director on 7 May 2015. executive remuneration. The Committee Chairman agrees the
protocols under which Deloitte provides advice and the Committee
Role of the Committee
is satisfied that the advice they have received from Deloitte has
The role of the Committee is to set the company’s remuneration
been objective and independent.
policy so that GSK is able to recruit, retain and motivate its
executives. The remuneration policy is regularly reviewed to Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group and,
ensure that it is consistent with the company’s scale and scope as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation
of operations, supports the business strategy and growth plans to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. The code of conduct
and helps drive the creation of shareholder value. can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com.
Terms of reference Deloitte provided independent commentary on matters under
The Committee’s full terms of reference are available on the consideration by the Committee and updates on market practice
company’s website. The terms of reference, which are reviewed and legislative requirements. Deloitte’s fees for advice provided to
at least annually, were last revised in January 2016 to reflect best the Committee in 2015 were £138,130. Fees were charged on a
practice and corporate governance developments. time and materials basis. Deloitte LLP also provided other consulting,
tax and assurance services to GSK during the year. However, the
Governance
Committee is satisfied that this does not compromise the
The Board considers all of the members of the Committee to be
independence of the advice they have received from Deloitte.
independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with the
UK Corporate Governance Code. Willis Towers Watson provided additional market data to the Committee.
The Committee met six times in scheduled meetings during 2015, Shareholder votes on remuneration matters
with each member attending as follows: Votes
2015 Total votes Total votes Total votes withheld
AGM cast (billion) for (%) against (%) (million)
Committee Attendance at full
Members member since meetings during 2015 Remuneration report 3.5 98.03 1.97 205
Urs Rohner 1 January 2015 6/6
(Chairman from 7 May 2015) Votes
2014 Total votes Total votes Total votes withheld
Vindi Banga 1 January 2016 0/0
AGM cast (billion) for (%) against (%) (million)
Dr Stephanie Burns 1 May 2013 6/6 Remuneration report 3.4 98.5 1.5 171
Judy Lewent 1 January 2013 6/6 Remuneration policy 3.5 97.4 2.6 100
Sir Deryck Maughan 1 July 2012 5/6
Consideration of shareholder views
Hans Wijers 10 October 2013 5/6 The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders and
Sir Christopher Gent* 1 January 2007 3/3 holds annual meetings with GSK’s largest investors to discuss and
take feedback on its remuneration policy and governance matters.
Tom de Swaan* 20 May 2009 3/3
(Chairman to 7 May 2015) The annual meetings were held in November 2015, at which
Urs Rohner, Committee Chairman, shared updates on remuneration
*Sir Christopher Gent and Tom de Swaan retired from the Board on 7 May 2015.
matters in the last 12 months and proposals for 2016 onwards.
In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Committee met on In particular this covered proposed enhanced annual bonus
a quorate basis on three occasions to approve the formal grant of disclosures for inclusion in the 2015 Annual Report. In addition,
long-term incentive awards to employees below the CET, and investors’ initial views were sought on the future development of
address other LTI administrative matters. the approved Remuneration Policy in advance of the anticipated
submission by the company of a binding shareholder resolution to
Committee meetings usually include a closed session, during
approve a new Remuneration Policy at the 2017 AGM.
which only members of the Committee are present. Other
individuals may also be invited to attend Committee meetings Committee evaluation
during the year. Executives and other Committee attendees The Committee’s annual evaluation was internally facilitated by
are not involved in any decisions, and are not present at any the Company Secretary, and supplemented by a questionnaire
discussions regarding their own remuneration. circulated to Committee members on behalf of the Committee
Chairman. It was concluded that the Committee continued to
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and
operate effectively. In terms of enhancements to the Committee’s
attends all meetings. Other attendees at Committee include:
deliberations it was agreed that the Committee would focus its
attention during 2016 on reviewing the company’s Remuneration
Regular Attends as
Attendee attendee required Policy.
CEO (cid:22)
CFO (cid:22)
Head of Human Resources (cid:22)
Head of Reward (cid:22)
Committee Adviser – Deloitte LLP (cid:22)GSK Annual Report 2015 117
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Remuneration governance continued
Principal activities and matters addressed during 2015
Remuneration
Items specific to: Governance and
Month Overall Annual bonus and LTIs other matters
January • Approve CET salary increase • R eview and approve R&D Annual bonus • R eview draft 2014 Remuneration report
recommendations target metric • R eview shareholder feedback from
• R eview and approve executives’ 2014 annual investor meetings
bonuses • Review Committee external evaluation
• S et CEO 2015 bonus objectives report
• U pdate on Deferred
Annual Bonus Plan Rules
• U pdate on LTI performance for 2012 LTI
awards (2012-2014)
February • R eceive update on remuneration • R eview LTI performance outcomes and • R eview 2014 Remuneration report
related implications of the Novartis approve vesting of 2012 LTI awards
transaction (2012-2014) for CET and below CET
• Review and approve 2015-2017 LTI
grants for CET and below
• Grant interim Share Value Plan awards
(below CET)
March • R emuneration environment update • Update on Performance Share Plan for • Update on remuneration considerations
employees below CET for 2015
• Grant awards to certain eligible former
Novartis employees
July • Review of CEO and CFO pay • Approve adjusted free cash flow target • R eview AGM and remuneration report
competitiveness for 2015 awards following completion of feedback, the external remuneration
• R eview of remuneration benchmark the Novartis transaction environment and performance target
comparator groups disclosures for incentive plans
• A pprove Committee evaluation process
• Review Chairman fees
• E nvironmental update
August • G rant interim and main Share Value
Plan awards (below CET)
October • C onsider remuneration • U pdate on LTI vesting for 2013 awards • U pdate on remuneration report
report disclosures for 2015 (2013-2015) disclosures
• Update on CEO, CFO • Review adjustment principles for LTI • P reparation for annual investor
and CET remuneration competitiveness measures in respect of the Novartis meetings
• Draft plan for review of remuneration transaction
policy for 2017 AGM
November Annual meeting with investors
December • Annual CET benchmarking and • Grant awards to certain eligible former • Review Investment Association
competitiveness review Novartis employees Principles of Remuneration
• Approve Executive Director salary • Update on remuneration report
increases for 2016 disclosures
• Review shareholder feedback from
annual investor meetings118 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
Non-Executive Directors fees
Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors Letters of appointment
The company aims to provide the Chairman and other Non- The terms of engagement of the Non-Executive Directors are
Executive Directors with fees that are competitive with those paid set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection
by other companies of equivalent size and complexity, subject to at the company’s registered office and at the AGM. For each
the limits contained in GSK’s Articles of Association. Non-Executive Director, his or her initial appointment and any
subsequent re-appointment are subject to election and, thereafter,
Chairman’s fees
periodic re-election by shareholders.
Chairman Sir Philip Hampton was appointed a Non-Executive
Director on 1 January 2015, and received the standard annual The Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment do not
fee for a Non-Executive Director of £85,000, until 1 April 2015, contain provision for notice periods or for compensation if their
he then received fees of £350,000 per annum as Deputy appointments are terminated.
Chairman. Since his appointment as Chairman at the conclusion
The following table shows the date of the initial letter of
of the AGM on 7 May 2015, his fees increased to £700,000 per
appointment of each Non-Executive Director:
annum. He has elected to take 25% of his fees as GSK shares.
Non-Executive Director fees Date of letter of
Non-Executive Director fees were last increased in January 2013. Non-Executive Director appointment
There were no increases to the supplemental fees. A minimum of Sir Philip Hampton 25 September 2014
25% of fees will continue to be delivered as shares deferred until Professor Sir Roy Anderson 28 September 2007
the Non-Executive Director steps down from the Board. Vindi Banga 5 May 2015
The Non-Executive Directors’ fees applying since 1 January 2013 Dr Stephanie Burns 12 February 2007
are set out below:
Stacey Cartwright 3 March 2011
Per annum
Lynn Elsenhans 3 May 2012
Standard annual fee £85,000
Dr Jesse Goodman 23 December 2015
Supplemental fees
Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee £80,000 Judy Lewent 3 March 2011
Senior Independent Director and Scientific/Medical Experts £30,000 Sir Deryck Maughan 26 May 2004
Chairmen of the Remuneration and Corporate £20,000 Dr Daniel Podolsky 3 July 2006
Responsibility Committees
Urs Rohner 3 October 2014
Non-Executive Director undertaking intercontinental £7,500
travel to meetings per meeting Hans Wijers 29 January 2013
The table below (audited) sets out the value of fees and benefits received by the Non-Executive Directors in the form of cash and shares
or ADS. Further details of the Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan are set out on page 119.
2015 2014
Non-Executive Directors’
Fees Fees
emoluments (000) (audited)
Cash Shares/ADS Benefits Total Cash Shares/ADS Benefits Total
Professor Sir Roy Anderson £98 £32 £10 £140 £98 £32 £11 £141
Vindi Banga – £28 £1 £29 – – – –
Dr Stephanie Burns $91 $91 $77 $259 $105 $105 $134 $344
Stacey Cartwright £75 £25 £7 £107 £75 £25 £6 £106
Lynn Elsenhans £14 £122 £63 £199 £13 £110 £90 £213
Sir Christopher Gent £187 £63 £72 £322 £460 £250 £67 £777
Sir Philip Hampton £389 £130 £3 £522 – – – –
Judy Lewent $249 $83 $171 $503 $255 $85 $262 $602
Sir Deryck Maughan – $241 $146 $387 – $247 $149 $396
Dr Daniel Podolsky $60 $181 $155 $396 $65 $194 $220 $479
Urs Rohner £85 £28 £19 £132 – – – –
Tom de Swaan £38 £7 £24 £69 £84 £28 £30 £142
Jing Ulrich $92 $14 $35 $141 $167 $56 $190 $413
Hans Wijers £75 £25 £16 £116 £75 £25 £19 £119
Sir Robert Wilson – – – – £22 £23 £10 £55
a) Benefits primarily consist of travel and subsistence costs incurred in the normal course of business, in relation to meetings on Board and
Committee matters and other GSK-hosted events which are considered to be taxable. For overseas-based Non-Executive Directors, this
includes travel to meetings in the UK.
b) Non-Executive Directors fees that are paid other than in GBP are converted using an exchange rate that is set annually based on the average rate
for the last quarter of the year prior to payment. The rate is reviewed if it moves significantly during the year.
c) Sir Philip Hampton and Urs Rohner joined the Board from 1 January 2015. Vindi Banga joined the Board from 1 September 2015.
d) Sir Christopher Gent, Tom de Swaan and Jing Ulrich all retired from the Board on 7 May 2015. Sir Robert Wilson retired from the Board on
7 May 2014.
e) Sir Christopher Gent’s benefits number includes £3,012 travel and hospitality costs incurred whilst attending GSK hosted events as previously
agreed at the request of the company, after he retired on 7 May 2015.GSK Annual Report 2015 119
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Directors’ interests in shares (audited)
The interests of the Directors of the company in office at 31 December 2015 and their connected persons are shown in the tables below.
Total share plan interests as at 31 December 2015
Total directors’ interests as at Shares/ADS Options
(a)Unvested and Unvested and (a)Unvested and Unvested and
10 March 31 December 1 January not subject to subject to not subject to subject to Vested but Exercised in
2016 2015 2015 performance performance performance performance not exercised the year
Executive Directors
Shares
Sir Andrew Witty(b,c,d,f,g,i) 1,050,062 859,350 760,988 18,174 1,390,416 131,195 130,307 89,993 66,529
Simon Dingemans(b,c,d,f,i) 267,899 179,527 157,208 – 611,834 50,449 49,729 – 39,150
Dr Moncef Slaoui(g) 28,464 28,300 27,657 – – – – 68,520 –
ADS
Dr Moncef Slaoui(c,d,e,h) 286,300 234,270 196,133 80,057 471,769 – – 4,235 –
Share allocation plan for Non-Executive Directors
Total directors’ interests as at Shares/ADS Number of shares or ADS
31 December 1 January
2015 2015
10 March or date of or date of 31 December Dividends Allocated 31 December
2016 resignation appointment 2015 Paid out reinvested & elected 2014
Non-Executive Directors
Shares(j)
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 23,969 23,969 20,424 23,969 – 1,182 2,363 20,424
Vindi Banga 37,303 37,303 35,200 2,103 – – 2,103 –
Dr Stephanie Burns 44 44 44 – – – – –
Stacey Cartwright 8,469 8,469 6,286 8,347 – 364 1,818 6,165
Sir Christopher Gent(k) – 136,566 132,575 – (136,566) – 3,991 132,575
Sir Philip Hampton 16,696 16,696 6,918 9,778 – 47 9,731 –
Urs Rohner 2,080 2,080 – 2,080 – 17 2,063 –
Tom de Swaan(k) – 27,750 27,331 – (27,750) – 419 27,331
Hans Wijers 4,845 4,845 2,852 4,845 – 175 1,818 2,852
ADS(j)
Dr Stephanie Burns 20,584 20,584 17,355 20,520 – 1,036 2,194 17,290
Lynn Elsenhans 14,839 14,839 9,657 13,839 – 543 4,639 8,657
Judy Lewent 17,636 17,636 15,332 7,469 – 321 1,982 5,166
Sir Deryck Maughan 51,937 51,937 43,537 51,937 – 2,621 5,779 43,537
Dr Daniel Podolsky 37,745 37,745 31,515 37,745 – 1,896 4,334 31,515
Jing Ulrich(k) – 3,363 3,056 – (3,025) – 307 2,718
a) Unvested shares and ADS and unvested options held by Executive Directors which are not subject to performance reflect bonus
deferrals under the DABP, ShareSave and Share Value Plan (SVP) awards.
b) Total directors’ interests as at 10 March 2016 include Deferred Annual Bonus Awards and related Matching Awards which vested on 28 February 2016.
As these awards for UK participants are structured as nil cost options, the following gross interests have been included in the table above and tax will be
due at the point of exercise: Sir Andrew Witty: 36,442 Deferred Annual Bonus Award and 13,757 vested Matching Award and Mr Simon Dingemans:
13,799 Deferred Annual Bonus Award and 5,209 vested Matching Award. Total directors’ interests also includes shares purchased through the
GlaxoSmithKline ShareReward Plan. During 2015, Sir Andrew Witty and Simon Dingemans were each awarded 212 shares under the plan.
The balance of shares within the plan is as follows:
ShareReward Plan (Shares) 10 March 2016 31 December 2015 1 January 2015
Sir Andrew Witty 3,229 3,132 2,758
Simon Dingemans 1,169 1,100 837
Dr Moncef Slaoui is not eligible to participate in the ShareReward Plan, as this is only open to UK employees.120 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
Directors’ interests in shares continued
c) Total directors’ interests includes shares or ADS resulting from the deferral of bonus (and the subsequent re-investment of dividends) under the
DABP. The totals shown in the table below include bonus deferrals, but exclude any unvested matching awards which are subject to ongoing
performance criteria. The amounts represent the gross share and ADS balances prior to the sale of any shares or ADS to satisfy tax liabilities.
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (Bonus deferrals) 10 March 2016 31 December 2015 1 January 2015
Sir Andrew Witty (Shares) 135,662 130,307 150,488
Simon Dingemans (Shares) 72,996 49,729 66,257
Dr Moncef Slaoui (ADS) 53,867 50,897 58,769
d) Total directors’ interests at 10 March 2016 include any shares or ADS which vested due to performance being met under elements of the PSP
(2013-2015 awards), less those sold to satisfy tax liabilities on the vested amounts (see pages 124 to 125 for further details).
e) For Dr Moncef Slaoui, total directors’ interests includes ADS purchased within the 401(k) Plan and the US Executive Supplemental Savings
Plan (ESSP), and ADS awarded to Dr Slaoui’s connected person under the SVP. The relevant balances are as follows:
Dr Moncef Slaoui (ADS) 10 March 2016 31 December 2015 1 January 2015
US Retirement Savings Plans 14,036 13,431 13,045
Share Value Plan 4,830 7,820 7,590
As an Executive Director, Dr Moncef Slaoui is not eligible to receive awards under the SVP. The SVP awards shown above reflect the holdings
of Dr Slaoui’s connected person, who is also an employee of GSK. The awards are subject to three-year vesting periods and vesting is
contingent on continued employment within GSK. Any gains arising on vesting are not included in Dr Moncef Slaoui’s total remuneration
figures. During the year, his connected person was granted 2,530 ADS on 25 August 2015 at a grant price of $39.41 (face value of $99,707).
Dr Slaoui’s total share plan interests also include PSP awards held by his connected person. These awards are subject to performance criteria
relevant to employees below the CET. As at 31 December 2015, his connected person held 6,700 ADS under the PSP, comprising awards
made in 2013 (2,344 ADS) and 2014 (2,237 ADS) and 2015 (2,119 ADS), all amounts including dividend re-investment.
f) Unvested options not subject to performance
For Sir Andrew Witty and Simon Dingemans, the unvested options not subject to performance include holdings of 888 and 720 respectively
in the ShareSave Plan, in which they participate on the same terms as all other employees. 888 ShareSave options were granted to Sir Andrew
Witty during 2015. Simon Dingemans was granted 266 options under the plan on 29 October 2015. The remainder of unvested options not
subject to performance relate to bonus deferrals structured as nil-cost options under the DABP.
g) Vested but not exercised options
For the Executive Directors, the following table provides details of vested but unexercised options as at 31 December 2015 under the Share
Option Plan (SOP), which lapsed on 20 February 2016. GSK granted options under this plan to Executive Directors on an annual basis
until 2009.
Share Option Plan Number of shares under option
Date of grant Lapse date Grant price Sir Andrew Witty Dr Moncef Slaoui
21.02.06 20.02.16 £14.68 89,993 68,520
89,993 68,520
h) The ADS vested but unexercised options totalling 4,235 for Dr Moncef Slaoui represent the ADS options held by Dr Moncef Slaoui’s
connected person.GSK Annual Report 2015 121
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Directors’ interests in shares continued
i) The following table sets out details of options (including nil-cost options under the DABP) exercised during 2015 by Executive Directors.
Dr Moncef Slaoui did not exercise any options during the year.
Number of shares Market Gain on exercise
Type of award Date of grant under option Date of exercise Grant price price at exercise (000)
Sir Andrew Witty
ShareSave 01.12.12 776 01.12.15 £11.59 £13.51 £1
DABP – deferral 09.03.12 57,932 14.05.15 – £14.14 £819
DABP – matching 09.03.12 7,821 14.05.15 – £14.14 £111
66,529 £931
Simon Dingemans
ShareSave 01.12.12 310 01.12.15 £11.59 £13.51 £1
DABP – deferral 09.03.12 34,220 08.05.15 – £14.72 £504
DABP – matching 09.03.12 4,620 08.05.15 – £14.72 £68
39,150 £573
In respect of options under the SOP and the ShareSave plans, the remuneration receivable by an Executive Director is calculated on the date
that the options first vest. The remuneration is the difference between the amount the Executive Director is required to pay to buy the shares or
ADS and the total value of the shares or ADS on the vesting date. If the Executive Director chooses not to exercise the options on the vesting
date, any subsequent increase or decrease in the amount realised will be due to movements in the share or ADS price between the vesting date
and the date of exercise. This increase or decrease in value is the result of an investment decision by the Executive Director and, as such, is not
recorded as remuneration. No options vested for Executive Directors during 2015.
In respect of nil-cost options under the DABP, the bonus which is deferred by the Director is recorded as remuneration (under annual bonus)
for the year to which it relates. The gain recorded on exercise of the nil-cost option comprises this remuneration, the total of the amounts
received in re-invested dividends prior to vesting and the gains or losses resulting from movements in the share price between the dates
of grant and exercise for the initial bonus amount deferred and the dates of dividend reinvestment and exercise for the re-invested dividends.
For the matching element of the DABP, the remuneration of the Executive Director is recorded in the year that the performance criteria end
and represents the number of vested shares multiplied by the price at vesting. The gain recorded on exercise of the nil-cost option comprises
the total of this remuneration and the gain or loss resulting from the movement in the share price between vesting and exercise.
For Sir Andrew Witty:
• The total gain of £1,490 following the exercise of 776 options granted under the ShareSave Plan.
• The gain of £819,158 recorded following the exercise of the 57,932 nil-cost options relating to the deferral of bonus earned in respect
of 2011 comprises remuneration of £700,000 recorded in 2011 as annual bonus and a net gain of £119,158 relating to the re-investment
of dividends prior to vesting and movements in the share price between grant and dividend re-investment dates and the exercise date.
• The gain of £110,589 recorded following the exercise of the 7,821 nil-cost options relating to the DABP matching award comprises
remuneration of £122,008 recorded in 2014 in relation to the DABP (see page 122) and an investment loss of £11,419 relating to the
movement in the share price between the vesting and exercise dates.
For Simon Dingemans:
• The total gain of £595 following the exercise of 310 options granted under the ShareSave Plan.
• The gain of £503,718 recorded following the exercise of the 34,220 nil-cost options relating to the deferral of bonus earned in respect of
2011 comprises remuneration of £413,520 recorded in 2011 as annual bonus and a net gain of £90,198 relating to the re-investment of
dividends prior to vesting and movements in the share price between grant and dividend re-investment dates and the exercise date.
• The gain of £68,006 recorded following the exercise of the 4,620 nil-cost options relating to the DABP matching award comprises
remuneration of £72,072 recorded in 2014 in relation to the DABP (see page 123) and an investment loss of £4,066 relating to the
movement in the share price between the vesting and exercise dates.
j) For Non-Executive Directors, total interests include shares or ADS received as part or all of their fees under the Non-Executive Director
Share Allocation Plan. Note that dividends received on shares or ADS under the plan during 2015 were converted into shares or ADS as
at 31 December 2015.
k) S ir Christopher Gent, Tom de Swaan and Jing Ulrich all retired from the Board on 7 May 2015. They elected to receive their shares from
the Non-Executive Directors’ Share Allocation Plan immediately upon retiring from the Board. Dividend entitlements in respect of the
Q3 and Q4 2014 and the Q1 2015 dividends were paid in cash in accordance with the plan rules.122 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
Directors’ interests in shares continued
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan matching awards
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) matching awards are made annually to Executive Directors, based on the individual’s mandatory
deferral and voluntary bonus deferral election. The company will match shares or ADS up to one-for-one depending on the company’s
performance during a three-year performance period. Performance conditions and vesting levels are described on pages 109, 110 and
112 of this report.
Awards to UK-based Executive Directors are made in the form of nil-cost options. Once an award vests, the UK-based Executive
Director may choose to exercise the award at any time up to 10 years from the date of grant. Awards to US-based Executive
Directors are made as conditional awards of ADS. The amount of remuneration receivable in respect of the matching shares or ADS
is calculated using the share or ADS price on the date the relevant award vests. If the award vests after the date of the Remuneration
report, the calculation is performed using the average share or ADS price over the last quarter of the financial year. If an Executive
Director chooses not to exercise the nil-cost options on the vesting date, any subsequent increase or decrease in the amount
realised will be due to movements in the share price between the vesting date and the date of exercise. This increase or decrease
in value is the result of an investment decision and, as such, is not recorded as remuneration.
Dividends are reinvested on the nil-cost options or conditional awards of shares or ADS made to Executive Directors up to the date
of vesting.
The following tables provide details for each Executive Director in respect of DABP matching awards. Market price at grant and at
vesting represent the closing share prices on those dates.
Performance period
Sir Andrew Witty – Shares
2012-2014 2013-2015 2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018
Market price at grant £14.12 £14.54 £16.43 £15.20 £13.59
Unvested at 31 December 2014 57,145 33,961 59,382 – –
Granted – – – 30,172 –
Face value at grant (000) – – – £459 –
Dividends reinvested 787 1,986 3,475 1,331 –
Vested (7,821) – – – –
Lapsed (50,111) – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2015 – 35,947 62,857 31,503 –
Granted – – – 40,003
Face value at grant (000) – – – £544
Dividends reinvested 495 865 434 –
Vested (13,757) – – –
Lapsed (22,685) – – –
Unvested at 10 March 2016 – 63,722 31,937 40,003
Vested shares
Number of shares 7,821 13,757
Market price at vesting £15.60 £14.11
Gain: 000 000
Remuneration for 2014(a) £122 –
Remuneration for 2015 – £194
a) The value shown in the 2014 column is the award which vested on 9 March 2015. This has been valued based on a fair market value of
£15.60; the closing share price from the business day prior to the vesting date. Please note that the values shown differ from those disclosed
in the 2014 Annual Report as the value was based on an estimated vesting price of £14.14.GSK Annual Report 2015 123
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Directors’ interests in shares continued
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan matching awards continued
Performance period
Simon Dingemans – Shares
2012-2014 2013-2015 2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018
Market price at grant £14.12 £14.54 £16.43 £15.20 £13.59
Unvested at 31 December 2014 33,755 12,859 19,643 – –
Granted – – – 14,680 –
Face value at grant (000) – – – £223 –
Dividends reinvested 465 752 1,148 647 –
Vested* (4,620) – – – –
Lapsed (29,600) – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2015 – 13,611 20,791 15,327 –
Granted – – – 36,381
Face value at grant (000) – – – £494
Dividends reinvested 187 286 211 –
Vested (5,209) – – –
Lapsed (8,589) – – –
Unvested at 10 March 2016 – – 21,077 15,538 36,381
Vested shares
Number of shares 4,620 5,209
Market price at vesting £15.60 £14.11
Gain: 000 000
Remuneration for 2014(a) £72 –
Remuneration for 2015 – £73
a) The value shown in the 2014 column is the award which vested on 9 March 2015. This has been valued based on a fair market value of
£15.60; the closing share price from the business day prior to the vesting date. Please note that the values shown differ from those disclosed
in the 2014 Annual Report as the value was based on an estimated vesting price of £14.14.
Performance period
Dr Moncef Slaoui – ADS
2012-2014 2013-2015 2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018
Market price at grant $44.68 $44.27 $54.17 $46.25 $39.13
Unvested at 31 December 2014 22,518 17,300 18,951 – –
Granted – – – 11,973 –
Face value at grant (000) – – – $554 –
Dividends reinvested 327 1,025 1,122 527 –
Vested (3,085) – – – –
Lapsed (19,760) – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2015 – 18,325 20,073 12,500 –
Granted – – – 20,854
Face value at grant (000) – – – $816
Dividends reinvested 247 271 169 –
Vested (7,011) – – –
Lapsed (11,561) – – –
Unvested at 10 March 2016 – – 20,344 12,669 20,854
Vested ADS
Number of ADS 3,085 7,011
Market price at vesting $46.73 $39.14
Gain: 000 000
Remuneration for 2014(a) $144 –
Remuneration for 2015 – $274
a) The value shown in the 2014 column is the award which vested on 9 March 2015. This has been valued based on a fair market value of
$46.73, the closing share price from the business day prior to the vesting date. Please note that the values shown differ from those disclosed
in the 2014 Annual Report as the value was based on an estimated vesting price of $44.76.124 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
Directors’ interests in shares continued
Performance Share Plan awards
Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards are made to Executive Directors on an annual basis. Under the terms of the PSP, the number
of shares or ADS vesting is determined following the end of the relevant performance period and is dependent on GSK’s
performance during that period. Performance conditions and vesting levels are described on pages 109, 110 and 112.
Dividends are reinvested on the performance shares or ADS awarded to executives throughout the performance period and up to the
date of vesting. At vesting, UK participants receive the relevant number of shares and US participants may defer receipt of all or part
of their vested awards. The amount of remuneration receivable in respect of performance shares is calculated using the share or ADS
price on the date the relevant PSP award vests.
The PSP awards made to Sir Andrew Witty in 2012, 2013 and 2014 have three-year performance periods. However, the deeds
of award specified that 25% of the awards would be subject to a further two-year vesting period (five years in total). During this
two-year period, there are no additional performance criteria and the awards will only lapse if Sir Andrew is dismissed for cause.
The remuneration in respect of these awards will therefore be considered to be realised in full following the determination by the
Remuneration Committee of the vesting levels of the initial 75% of the awards (i.e. full remuneration will be recognised at the end
of the three-year performance period). From 2015, the whole of the award made to each Executive Director has a three-year
performance period, and an additional two-year vesting period. Each award will therefore only vest after five years. During the final
two years of the vesting period, the award for each Director will only lapse if he is dismissed for cause. The remuneration in respect
of the awards and dividend equivalent up to that point will therefore be recognised at the end of the three-year performance period
(i.e. in the 2017 Remuneration report).
The following tables provide details for each Executive Director in respect of PSP awards. Market price at grant and at vesting represent
the closing share prices on those dates.
Performance period
Sir Andrew Witty – Shares
2012-2014 2013-2015 2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018
Market price at grant £14.12 £14.54 £16.43 £15.20 £13.59
Unvested at 31 December 2014 509,128 477,699 413,229 – –
Granted – – – 429,338 –
Face value at grant (000) – – – £6,526 –
Dividends reinvested 6,777 27,540 23,822 18,787 –
Vested (69,650) – – – –
Lapsed (446,255) – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2015 – 505,239 437,051 448,125 –
Granted – – – – 492,052
Face value at grant (000) – – – – £6,687
Dividends reinvested – 6,954 6,016 6,168 –
Vested – (193,354) – – –
Lapsed – (318,839) – – –
Unvested at 10 March 2016 – – 443,067 454,293 492,052
Vested shares:
Number of shares 69,650 193,354
Market price at vesting £14.86 £13.64
Gain: 000 000
Remuneration for 2014 £1,035 –
Remuneration for 2015 – £2,637GSK Annual Report 2015 125
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Directors’ interests in shares continued
Performance Share Plan awards continued
Performance period
Simon Dingemans – Shares
2012-2014 2013-2015 2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018
Market price at grant £14.12 £14.54 £16.43 £15.20 £13.59
Unvested at 31 December 2014 196,014 210,194 181,842 – –
Granted – – – 188,930 –
Face value at grant (000) – – – £2,872 –
Dividends reinvested 2,609 12,118 10,483 8,267 –
Vested (26,815) – – – –
Lapsed (171,808) – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2015 – 222,312 192,325 197,197 –
Granted – – – – 216,512
Face value at grant (000) – – – – £2,942
Dividends reinvested – 3,060 2,647 2,714 –
Vested – (85,078) – – –
Lapsed – (140,294) – – –
Unvested at 10 March 2016 – – 194,972 199,911 216,512
Vested shares:
Number of shares 26,815 85,078
Market price at vesting £14.86 £13.64
Gain: 000 000
Remuneration for 2014 £398 –
Remuneration for 2015 – £1,160
Performance period
Dr Moncef Slaoui – ADS
2012-2014 2013-2015 2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018
Market price at grant $44.68 $44.27 $54.17 $46.25 $39.13
Unvested at 31 December 2014 149,302 145,634 116,412 – –
Granted – 131,005 –
Face value at grant (000) – – $6,059 –
Dividends reinvested 2,119 8,545 6,830 5,746 –
Vested (20,443) – – – –
Lapsed (130,978) – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2015 – 154,179 123,242 136,751 –
Granted – – – – 158,714
Face value at grant (000) – – – – $6,210
Dividends reinvested – 2,082 1,665 1,847 –
Vested – (58,989) – – –
Lapsed – (97,272) – – –
Unvested at 10 March 2016 – – 124,907 138,598 158,714
Vested ADS
Number of ADS 20,443 58,989
Market price at vesting $45.95 $39.76
Gain: 000 000
Remuneration for 2014 $939 –
Remuneration for 2015 – $2,345126 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
continued
Directors and Senior Management
Further information is provided on compensation and interests of Directors and Senior Management as a group (‘the group’). For this
purpose, the group is defined as the Non-Executive and Executive Directors, other members of the CET and the Company Secretary.
For the financial year 2015, the following table sets out aggregate remuneration for the group for the periods during which they served
in that capacity.
Remuneration for 2015 (£)
Total compensation paid 22,817,904
Aggregate increase in accrued pension benefits (net of inflation) 143,039
Aggregate payments to defined contribution schemes 839,379
During 2015, members of the group were awarded shares and ADS under the company’s various share plans, as set out in the table
below.
Awards Dividend reinvestment awards
Awarded during 2015 Shares ADS Shares ADS
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 122,475 24,686 22,628 5,068
Performance Share Plan 1,533,782 307,710 249,257 48,825
Deferred Investment Awards(a) (b) – – 12,714 –
Share Value Plan(b) 11,060 2,530 – –
At 10 March 2016, the group had the following interests in shares and ADS of the company. Holdings issued under the various executive
share plans are described in Note 42 to the financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’ on page 202.
Interests at 10 March 2016 Shares ADS
Owned 1,945,852 476,009
Unexercised options 422,601 24,675
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 1,077,034 166,832
Performance Share Plan 4,951,255 749,909
Deferred Investment Awards(a) (b) 236,364 –
Share Value Plan(b) 21,110 4,830
a) Notional shares and ADS.
b) Executive Directors are not eligible to receive Deferred Investment Awards or participate in the Share Value Plan.
Basis of preparation
The Remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and The Large and Medium-sized Companies
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations). In accordance with the Regulations, the following
parts of the Annual report on remuneration are subject to audit: total remuneration figures for Executive Directors, including further details
for each element of remuneration (salary, benefits, annual bonus, long-term incentive awards and pension); Non-Executive Directors’ fees
and emoluments received in the year; Directors’ interests in shares, including interests in GSK share plans; payments to past directors;
payments for loss of office; and share ownership requirements and holdings, for which the opinion thereon is expressed on page 136.
The remaining sections of the Remuneration report are not subject to audit nor are the pages referred to from within the audited sections.
The Remuneration report has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by
Urs Rohner
Remuneration Committee Chairman
16 March 2016GSK Annual Report 2015 127
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
2014 Remuneration policy summary
Executive Director remuneration policy
The company’s remuneration policy report was approved on 7 May 2014 at GSK’s Annual General Meeting. The full policy is available at
www.gsk.com in the Investors section or in our 2013 Annual Report from page 117 to 126. The following is a summary of this policy.
Value earned
Annual from long-term Total
Salary Benefits + Pension
+ bonus incentive = remuneration
awards
A. Fixed pay B. Pension C. Pay for performance
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation
Salary To provide a core reward for the role. Individual’s role, experience and performance and independently sourced data
for relevant comparator groups considered when determining salary levels.
Set at a level appropriate to secure
and retain high calibre individuals
needed to deliver the Group’s
strategic priorities.
Benefits Levels are set to recruit and retain Executive Directors are generally eligible to receive benefits in line with the policy
high calibre individuals to execute the for other employees which may vary by location. These include travel allowances
business strategy. (including spouse/partner travel), healthcare, life assurance/death in service
(where not provided as part of the individual’s pension arrangements), personal
financial advice and contractual post-retirement benefits.
Pension Pension arrangements provide a Pension arrangements are structured in accordance with the plans operated
competitive level of retirement in the country in which the individual is likely to retire. Where the individual
income. chooses not to become a member of the pension plan, cash in lieu of the
relevant pension contribution is paid instead.
New Executive Directors in the UK will be entitled either to join the defined
contribution pension plan or to receive a cash payment in lieu of pension
contribution. Where an individual is a member of a GSK legacy defined benefit
plan, a defined contribution plan or an alternative pension plan arrangement and
is subsequently appointed to the Board, he or she may remain a member of that
plan.
Annual bonus To incentivise and recognise Financial, operational and business targets are set at the start of the year by
execution of the business strategy the Committee and bonus levels are determined by the Committee based on
on an annual basis. performance against those targets.
Rewards the achievement of Individual objectives are set at the start of the year by the Committee and
stretching annual financial and performance against objectives is assessed by the Committee.
strategic business targets and
Executive Directors are required to defer 25% of any bonus earned into shares,
delivery of personal objectives.
or ADS as appropriate, for three years. They may defer up to an additional 25%
of bonus earned, up to an overall maximum deferral of 50%. Deferred shares
vest at the end of the three year performance period.
Long-term To incentivise and recognise delivery Deferred Annual Bonus Plan
incentive awards of the longer term business Deferred shares may be matched subject to the achievement of performance
priorities, financial growth and conditions over three years. Matching awards may be conditional shares or
increases in shareholder value nil-cost options and are eligible for dividend equivalents in respect of the
compared to other pharmaceutical performance period.
companies.
Performance Share Plan
In addition, to provide alignment with Conditional awards are made annually with vesting dependent on the
shareholder interests, a retention achievement of performance conditions over three years. Vested awards
element, to encourage long-term are subject to an additional two-year vesting period. Awards are eligible
shareholding and discourage for dividend equivalents up to the date of vesting.
excessive risk taking.
For details of our policy on clawback/malus, recruitment remuneration, loss of office and termination payments, please refer to the full
2014 remuneration policy report.128 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
2014 Remuneration policy summary
continued
Non-Executive Director remuneration policy
Element Purpose and link to strategy Overview
Chairman’s fee To provide an inclusive flat rate fee There is no formal maximum, however, fees are reviewed annually and set
that is competitive with those paid by reference to a review of the Chairman’s performance and independently
by other companies of equivalent sourced market data.
size and complexity subject to the
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for evaluating and making
limits contained in GSK’s Articles
recommendations to the Board on the fees payable to the Chairman.
of Association.
The Chairman does not participate in discussions in respect of his fees.
Fees can be paid in a combination of cash and/or GSK shares or ADS.
Basic fee There is no formal maximum, however, fees are reviewed annually
and set by reference to independently sourced market data.
The Chairman and CEO are responsible for evaluating and making
recommendations to the Board on the fees payable to the company’s
Non-Executive Directors.
A minimum of 25% is delivered in the form of GSK shares or ADS.
Supplemental To provide additional compensation Additional fees for Committee Chairmen, intercontinental travel, the
fees for Non-Executive Directors Senior Independent Director and Medical/Scientific Experts. Current fee
(excluding the Chairman) taking on levels are set out on page 118 of the 2015 Annual Report.
additional Board responsibilities or
undertaking intercontinental travel
to meetings.
Benefits To facilitate execution of Travel and subsistence costs for Non-Executive Directors are incurred in the
responsibilities and duties normal course of business in relation to meetings on Board and Committee
required by the role. matters and other GSK-hosted events. This includes Non-Executive Directors
undertaking intercontinental travel to meetings. Non-Executive Directors may
from time to time be accompanied by their spouse or partner to these meetings
or events. The costs associated with the above are all met by the company and
in some instances, they are deemed to be taxable and therefore treated as
benefits for the Non-Executive Director.
Non-Executive To enhance the link between At least 25% of the Non-Executive Directors’ total fees, excluding those of the
Directors’ share directors and shareholders, Chairman, are paid in the form of GSK shares or ADS and allocated to a share
allocation plan GSK requires Non-Executive or ADS account.
Directors to receive a significant
The Non-Executive Directors may also take the opportunity to invest part or
part of their fees in the form of
all of the balance of their fees into the same share or ADS account.
GSK shares or ADS.
The GSK shares or ADS which are notionally awarded to the Non-Executive
Directors and allocated to their interest accounts are set out in the Directors’
interests table on page 119 of the 2015 Annual Report.
The accumulated balances of these GSK shares or ADS, together with the
notional dividends accrued, are not paid out to Non-Executive Directors until
they leave the Board. Upon leaving, the Non-Executive Directors will receive
either the GSK shares or ADS, or a cash amount equivalent to the value of the
GSK shares or ADS at the date of leaving, or date of payment if later.
Letter of Non-Executive Directors’ and the Non-Executive Directors will be subject to annual election or re-election and
appointment Chairman’s terms of engagement will normally serve no longer than nine years from the date of first election by
are set out in letters of appointment shareholders at a general meeting.
as set out in the table on page 118
The Chairman will be subject to annual appointment by shareholders and may
of the 2015 Annual Report.
serve longer than nine years from the date of first election by shareholders at a
general meeting.Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial
statements
In this section
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 130
Independent Auditor’s report 131
Financial statements 138
Notes to the financial statements 142
Financial statements of
GlaxoSmithKline plc prepared
under UK GAAP 211
GSK Annual Report 2015 129130 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Directors’ statement
of responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Disclosure of information to auditors
the Remuneration report and the Group financial statements The Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report have each
in accordance with applicable law and regulations. confirmed that:
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial • so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors of which the company’s auditors are unaware; and
are required to prepare the Group financial statements in
• he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. In preparing the Group
relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s
financial statements, the Directors have also elected to comply
auditors are aware of that information.
with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards
Board (IASB). Under company law the Directors must not approve This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
the Group financial statements unless they are satisfied that they with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position
Going concern basis
and profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Pages 51 to 72 contain information on the performance of the
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are Group, its financial position, cash flows, net debt position and
required to: borrowing facilities. Further information, including Treasury risk
management policies, exposures to market and credit risk and
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
hedging activities, is given in Note 41 to the financial statements,
consistently;
‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’. Having assessed
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are the principal risks and other matters considered in connection with
reasonable and prudent; the viability statement, the Directors considered it appropriate to
adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the
• state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS
financial statements.
as adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by
the IASB, subject to any material departures disclosed and Internal control
explained in the Group financial statements; The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed the
assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates
• prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis
in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the system of
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will
internal control in operation in the Group for the year covered by
continue in business.
this Annual Report and up to the date of its approval by the Board
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting of Directors.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s
The UK Corporate Governance Code
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time
The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the
the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure
principles and complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate
that the Group financial statements and the Remuneration report
Governance Code maintained by the Financial Reporting Council,
comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS
as described in the Corporate Governance section on pages 80
Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets
to 101. The Board further considers that the Annual Report, taken
of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s
The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December position and performance, business model and strategy.
2015, comprising principal statements and supporting notes,
As required by the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules,
are set out in ‘Financial statements’ on pages 138 to 210 of this
the auditors have considered the Directors’ statement of
report. The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the Group
compliance in relation to those points of the UK Corporate
financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors’ report
Governance Code which are specified for their review.
on pages 131 to 137.
Annual Report
The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December
The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015,
2015 are included in the Annual Report, which is published in
comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration report, printed form and made available on our website. The Directors are
the Financial statements and additional information for investors,
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report
has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its
on our website in accordance with UK legislation governing the
behalf by
preparation and dissemination of financial statements. Access to
the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable
legislation may be different.
Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are Philip Hampton
listed in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report Chairman
2015 confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: 16 March 2016
• the Group financial statements, which have been prepared
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS
as issued by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets,
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and
• the Strategic report and risk sections of the Annual Report,
which represent the management report, include a fair review
of the development and performance of the business and
the position of the Group, together with a description of the
principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.GSK Annual Report 2015 131
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Independent Auditors’ report
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
Report on the Group financial statements Areas of focus
• Three-part transaction with Novartis
Our opinion
• Rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in the US
In our opinion, GlaxoSmithKline plc’s Group financial statements:
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs at
• Investigations into the Group’s commercial practices
31 December 2015 and of its profit and cash flows for the year
then ended; • Litigation
• have been properly prepared in accordance with International • Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the
• Re-measurement of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent
European Union; and
consideration
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
• Uncertain tax positions
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Context
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB
The context of our audit is set by the Group’s major activities in
As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the
2015. The most significant event of the last twelve months has
Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European
been the completion of the Group’s three-part transaction with
Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International
Novartis AG. This has therefore become a new area of focus for
Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
our audit in 2015 given the number of significant management
In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs estimates and judgements required to account for the transaction
as issued by the IASB. (including valuations of acquired assets and liabilities, the impact
of acquisition accounting, recognition and measurement of a put
What we have audited
option liability and certain tax judgements) and the broad range of
The Group financial statements, included within the Annual Report,
financial statement line items that are impacted.
comprise:
At the same time, fewer markets migrated in 2015 compared to
• the consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2015;
either 2013 or 2014 onto the Group’s common enterprise-wide
• the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement resource planning platforms (“ERP”) or moved financial transaction
of comprehensive income for the year then ended; and accounting services to business process outsourcing
locations (“BPO”) and to in-house business service centres
• the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended;
(“BSC”). This decision was taken consciously by management
• the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year given the competing pressures on the organisation to complete
then ended; and and integrate the Novartis transaction. As a result, transformation
of the Group’s finance processes, highlighted as an area of focus
• the notes to the Group financial statements which include a
in our 2014 report, was an area of lower risk in 2015 and is not
summary of significant accounting policies and other
included as an area of focus in the 2015 report. However, we
explanatory information.
expect this area to feature again as an area of focus in 2016 as
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the newly acquired Novartis businesses start to be migrated onto
the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial GSK’s centralised platforms.
statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial
We also added a new area of focus for the Group’s estimation
statements and are identified as audited.
of the fair value of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the consideration reflecting the significant estimation uncertainty
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law inherent in the calculation of this balance and given the continued
and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. increase in the size of this balance in response to changes in
management estimates to address better than expected
Our audit approach
performance of acquired products and revisions to certain other
Overview
assumptions. Following the resolution of the investigation into the
Materiality
Group’s Chinese Pharmaceuticals business in September 2014
• Overall group materiality: £200 million which represents – and considering the output of our audit work over this risk in
approximately 4% of profit before tax, adding back certain 2013 and 2014 – our focus for 2015 was principally directed at the
non-recurring items (“adjusted profit before tax”). financial reporting judgements relating to the active investigations
Audit scope by the Department of Justice (“DoJ”) in the US and Serious Fraud
• Our audit included full scope audits of 28 reporting components Office (“SFO”) in the UK.
with specific audit procedures performed at a further 39 Our other areas of focus have been refined to reflect developments
reporting components. in the Group’s business including consideration of the expansion
• Taken together, the components at which audit work was of healthcare reform and continued competitive pricing pressure
performed accounted for 65% of consolidated revenue, 80% of and discounting in the US, progress in litigation to which the
consolidated profit before tax and 76% of adjusted profit before Group is exposed, the impact of changes in the Group’s segmental
tax and covered all components that individually contributed more reporting following the Novartis transaction on the determination of
than 2% of revenue, profit before tax and adjusted profit before tax. cash generating units (“CGUs”) for impairment testing purposes
and management’s assessment of uncertain tax positions.132 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Independent Auditors’ report
continued
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus procedures to verify proper cut-off of revenue and expenses and
We conducted our audit in accordance with International testing the existence and accuracy of revenue transactions. In
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”). addition, we incorporate an element of unpredictability into our audit
work each year.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the
risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on
particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are
judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting identified as areas of focus in the table below. We have also set out
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to
events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also provide an opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, Any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be
including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the read in this context. For each area of focus below, where
directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to appropriate, we evaluated the design and tested the operating
fraud, and the risk of fraud in revenue recognition. Procedures effectiveness of key internal controls over financial reporting,
designed and executed to address these risks included use of data including testing the operation of IT systems from which financial
enabled auditing techniques to test journal entries and post-close information is generated. This is not a complete list of all risks
adjustments, testing and evaluating management’s key accounting identified by our audit.
estimates for reasonableness and consistency, undertaking cut-off
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Three-part transaction with Novartis Deploying our valuations specialists, we audited the methodology,
Refer to Notes 3, 30 and 38 in the Group financial statements. underlying assumptions and mechanical accuracy of valuation models for
each of the significant acquired intangible assets, consideration paid
On 2 March 2015, the Group completed its three-part transaction with
(including contingent consideration) and the settlement of pre-existing
Novartis AG. The Group acquired Novartis’ existing Vaccines business
relationships. We challenged the cash flow projections that underpinned
for cash consideration of US$5.25 billion, disposed of its Oncology
each of these valuations, including the Consumer put option, by comparing
business for cash consideration of US$16.0 billion and each party
to historical cash flows and understanding the reasons for the growth
contributed its existing Consumer Healthcare business into a new
profile of projections.
venture, in which the Group has a 63.5% controlling interest.
Deploying our tax specialists, we evaluated the external tax opinions
We focused on this area because the accounting for each component of
obtained by management to verify their technical accuracy and to validate
the three-part transaction gave rise to the following significant audit risks:
that the steps taken by the Group in effecting the transactions are
• The recognition of goodwill (£1,350 million) and intangible assets consistent with the external advice and opinions.
(£8,683 million) on the acquisitions of Vaccines and the Novartis
Consumer Healthcare business; We instructed component teams at 13 locations to undertake certain
substantive procedures over the acquired opening balance sheets for
• Accounting for the establishment of the Consumer Healthcare joint
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, including attendance at inventory
venture is complicated and required the fair valuing of the portion of
counts close to the acquisition date, physical verification of assets acquired
GSK’s existing business contributed (£4,116 million) and of the non-
and substantive procedures focused on revenue and cost cut-off.
controlling interest that arose on the acquisition (£2,150 million);
As a result of our work, we determined that the provisional purchase
• A number of internal restructuring steps were undertaken prior to
price allocations for the Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare acquisitions
the Oncology disposal and the Consumer Healthcare and Vaccines
outlined in Note 38 to the Group financial statements were reasonable.
acquisitions in order to support these transactions in a tax efficient
In connection with the Oncology disposal, we verified the cash proceeds
manner; and
and we reperformed management’s calculation of the resultant gain on
• The Group recognised a liability for the present value of the expected disposal. We found that the pre-tax gain on disposal of Oncology of
redemption price of a written put option over Novartis’ non-controlling £9,228 million and the associated tax charge of £1,920 million were
interest in the new Consumer Healthcare venture (the “Consumer reasonably stated, with the latter reflecting management’s best estimate
put option”), for which the value is subject to significant judgement of the incremental tax risk arising as a result of the three-part transaction.
and estimation uncertainty. At 31 December 2015, this liability had a We determined that the carrying value of the Consumer put option was
carrying value of £6,287 million. calculated in accordance with the agreement with Novartis, was based
on board approved projections for the business and was reasonably
stated. Finally, we found the disclosures in respect of each aspect of the
transaction to be reasonable, providing a fair reflection of the accounting
and valuations judgements.GSK Annual Report 2015 133
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in the US We obtained management’s calculations for accruals under applicable
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business schemes and validated the assumptions used by reference to the Group’s
Refer to Notes 3 and 27 in the Group financial statements. stated commercial policies, the terms of the applicable contracts, third party
data related to patient enrolment in US government funded benefit schemes
The Group makes sales to various customers in the US that fall under
and historical levels of product returns.
certain commercial and government mandated contracts and
reimbursement arrangements, of which the most significant are Medicaid We compared the assumptions to contracted prices, historical rebates,
and Medicare. The Group also provides a right of return to its customers discounts, allowances and returns levels (where relevant) and to current
for certain products. payment trends. We also considered the historical accuracy of the Group’s
estimates in previous years, including certain changes made to management’s
These arrangements result in deductions to gross sales in arriving at
estimates in 2015 to update Medicaid rebates for a new pricing methodology
turnover and give rise to obligations for the Group to provide customers
and to respond to the impact of competitive pricing pressures (particularly for
with rebates, discounts, allowances and the right of return, which for
Advair) and greater discounting in the US market more generally. We formed
unsettled amounts are recognised as an accrual.
an independent expectation of the largest elements of the accrual at
We focused on this area because rebates, discounts, allowances and 31 December 2015 using third party data and compared this expectation
returns arrangements are complex and because establishing an appropriate to the actual accrual recognised by the Group.
accrual requires significant judgement and estimation by the directors. This
Based on the procedures performed, we did not identify any material
judgement is particularly complex in a US healthcare environment in which
differences between our independent expectations and the accrual.
competitive pricing pressure and product discounting are growing trends.
The directors have determined an accrual of £1,464 million to be necessary
at 31 December 2015 (31 December 2014 – £1,308 million).
Investigations into the Group’s commercial practices We met with the directors, management, in-house legal counsel and spoke
Refer to Notes 3, 29 and 45 in the Group financial statements. with the Group’s external advisors to assess the risk of occurrence of
The Group remains subject to ongoing investigations by the DoJ in the similar acts to those previously alleged in China, the status of ongoing
US and the SFO in the UK into the Group’s commercial practices in a investigations and the potential for further fines and penalties. This included
number of markets. At 31 December 2015, the Group has concluded understanding and evaluating the Group’s internal investigations processes,
that it does not yet have sufficient clarity on the likely timing of the which assess risks and allegations reported through various channels
completion of these investigations nor is it able to make a sufficiently including whistle-blowing hotlines. We also evaluated the ongoing
reliable estimate of any fines or penalties that either the DoJ or the enhancements and changes that have been made to other control
SFO might impose on the Group on completion of their respective processes and business practices since the original allegations in China in
investigations. As a result, the Group has stated in note 45 that it is 2013.
unable to recognise a provision for its estimate of the eventual outcome Deploying our forensic specialists, we assessed the scope and findings of
of either investigation. the investigative work performed by the Group as well as the risk assessment
In addition, the Group is carrying out its own investigations in a number exercise that management has performed into third party interaction and
markets to ascertain if activities similar to those previously alleged in engagement more broadly. We used the output of this assessment to instruct
China have occurred elsewhere. ten component teams (including certain markets not otherwise included in
Group audit scope) to undertake risk-focused audit procedures to address
We focused on the following risks, which might have a material impact the audit risk that the Group financial statements might be materially
on the Group’s financial statements: misstated due to the potential financial implications of alleged illegal acts.
• That fines and penalties might be forthcoming in respect of ongoing In respect of the DoJ and SFO investigations, we independently circularised
investigations into the Group’s commercial practices, including those external legal counsel engaged by the Group to obtain its views on the status
by the DoJ and SFO, that could give rise to the need for material of the investigations and to ascertain the reasonableness of management’s
provisions or asset impairments; and assertions in respect of the likely outcome of each investigation. We discussed
the responses received directly with external legal counsel and found that they
• That illegal acts similar to those previously alleged in China have
were consistent with the representations received from management.
occurred elsewhere in the Group.
We were satisfied with the Group’s provisioning decisions at 31 December
2015 and with the adequacy of the disclosures given the status of these
investigations.
Litigation We discussed the status of significant known actual and potential litigation
Refer to Notes 3, 29 and 45 in the Group financial statements. with in-house legal counsel. We obtained and substantively tested evidence
to support the decisions and rationale for provisions held or decisions not to
The pharmaceuticals industry is heavily regulated which increases record provisions, including correspondence with legal counsel and other
inherent litigation risk. The Group is engaged in a number of legal
counter-parties to litigation. We also monitored and considered external
actions, including product liability, anti-trust and related private litigation,
information sources to identify potential legal actions.
of which the most significant are disclosed in Notes 29 and 45.
We developed an independent expectation of the litigation provisions based
We focused on this area as the eventual outcome of claims is uncertain
on product litigation history and other available evidence to challenge the
and the positions taken by the directors are based on the application of
valuation and completeness of the provisions recognised by the Group.
material judgement and estimation. Accordingly, unexpected adverse
We obtained confirmations from external legal counsel to confirm our
outcomes could significantly impact the Group’s reported profit and
understanding of settled and outstanding litigation and asserted claims.
balance sheet position.
We evaluated significant adjustments to legal provisions recorded during the
During the year, the most significant increase to the Group’s litigation year to determine if they were indicative of management bias. In respect of
provisions was in respect of the Paxil product liability referred to in the increase in the provision for Paxil product liability litigation, we obtained
Notes 29 and 45 which was reassessed following unsuccessful sufficient evidence to conclude that this increase was reasonable, including
mediation with plaintiffs giving rise to a subsequent revision of review of external legal advice.
management’s best estimate of settling these claims. This increase was
As disclosed in Notes 29 and 45 to the Group financial statements, the eventual
more than offset by utilisation of existing provisions of £428 million.
outcome of legal proceedings is dependent on the outcome of future events and
At 31 December 2015, the Group held provisions of £352 million in
the position taken by the Group is inherently judgemental. We found that in the
respect of legal actions (31 December 2014 – £520 million).
context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole the judgements
made by management were reasonable and the disclosures made in respect of
these provisions and contingent liabilities were appropriate.134 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Independent Auditors’ report
continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets Deploying our valuations specialists, we obtained the Group’s impairment
Refer to Notes 3, 18 and 19 in the Group financial statements. analyses and tested the reasonableness of key assumptions, including profit
and cash flow growth, terminal values, the impact of the expiry of patents,
The Group has £16.0 billion of intangible assets (31 December 2014 –
potential product obsolescence and the selection of discount rates. We
£7.8 billion), comprising significant licenses, patents and acquired trade
challenged management to substantiate its assumptions, including
marks (and excluding computer software). In addition, the Group has
comparing relevant assumptions to industry and economic forecasts.
£5.2 billion of goodwill at 31 December 2015 (31 December 2014 –
£3.7 billion). The Group recognised impairments to these intangible We interrogated the integrity of supporting calculations and we corroborated
assets amounting to £206 million during the year. certain information with third party sources, including expectations of
performance of certain assets and components of the business. We obtained
The carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets are contingent on
and evaluated management’s sensitivity analyses to ascertain the impact of
future cash flows and there is risk if these cash flows do not meet the
reasonably possible changes in key assumptions and we performed our own
Group’s expectations that the assets will be impaired. The impairment
independent sensitivity calculations to quantify the downside changes to
reviews performed by the Group contained a number of significant
management’s models required to result in impairment.
judgements and estimates including revenue growth, the success of new
product launches, patent expiry dates, profit margins, cash conversion, As a result of our work, we determined that the quantum of impairment
terminal values and discount rate. Changes in these assumptions might recognised in 2015 was appropriate. For those intangible assets, including
lead to a change in the carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill. goodwill, where management determined that no impairment was required,
we found that these judgements were supported by reasonable assumptions
During the year, the Group reduced its number of individual cash
that would require unreasonable downside changes before any additional
generating units (“CGUs”) for goodwill impairment testing purposes from
material impairment was necessary.
eight to four, comprising Global Pharmaceuticals, Consumer Healthcare,
Vaccines and ViiV Healthcare. This exercise was undertaken to align the In respect of the aggregation of CGUs, we confirmed that this is the lowest
CGUs to the Group’s operating segments which were changed following level at which management monitors goodwill for internal purposes, that it
the Group’s restructuring following the Novartis transaction. Through is consistent both with the way in which the Group’s leadership team is
this exercise, Vaccines has been treated as a separate CGU for the first structured and with how the Group’s results and financial position are
time and the Global Pharmaceuticals CGU aggregates pharmaceuticals reported to the CET and that no CGU for goodwill impairment testing
businesses previously separated into the US, Europe, Japan, Emerging purposes is larger than any of the Group’s new operating segments.
Markets and Other.
We focused on acquired intangible assets, as these are the most
significant individually and in aggregate, and a number have indefinite
lives, including the most significant of the intangible assets acquired from
Novartis. The Group has also recognised goodwill from a number of its
acquisitions, including the three-part transaction with Novartis.
Re-measurement of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent Deploying our valuations specialists, we evaluated management’s fair value
consideration computation model, including the projections and key assumptions used
Refer to Notes 3, 30, 38 and 41 in the Group financial statements. therein. We also compared the Group’s projections for its dolutegravir
products against certain third party expectations and found them to be
When the Group’s subsidiary, ViiV Healthcare, acquired the remaining
reasonable. In particular, we considered reasonably possible alternative
50% interest in the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012,
scenarios, comprising a downside case in the event that products launched
£659 million was recognised as contingent consideration. This
by competitors cannibalise more of the Group’s market share than anticipated
represented the fair value of expected payments to be made to Shionogi,
in management’s base case and an upside case when the competitor
contingent on future sales of dolutegravir products. This liability is
launches are less successful. These scenarios result in contingent
required to be re-measured to its fair value at each reporting date.
consideration liabilities that are materially lower and higher respectively.
Since its initial recognition, it has been increased in response to actual
Notwithstanding this, we believe that the Group has a reasonable basis for
and future sales significantly exceeding original expectations. At
its determination of the fair value at 31 December 2015 and that the value
31 December 2015, the associated financial liability was £3,409 million
reflects management’s best estimates.
(31 December 2014 – £1,684 million).
We validated that the methodology was consistent with previous years, and
We focused on this area as the fair value of the contingent consideration
that where certain inputs were changed, such as discount and tax rates, we
is determined by a number of significant unobservable inputs and by
validated that appropriate triggers occurred in 2015 to support such
management judgements and estimates, including forecast future sales
changes. We also verified that the updated assumptions were reasonable.
of Tivicay and Triumeq, the overall market size for HIV therapies and the
We also validated that the Group’s disclosures in respect of this liability,
potential impact of competitor products launched in 2015 and expected
including the disclosure of estimation uncertainty and its impact on the fair
to be launched in the future. In addition, the valuation is sensitive to
value of the liability are reasonable. changes in other assumptions, including discount and tax rates, both of
which were revised in determining the valuation at 31 December 2015.
Uncertain tax positions In conjunction with our UK, US, international tax and transfer pricing
Refer to Notes 3 and 14 in the Group financial statements. specialists, we evaluated and challenged management’s judgements in
respect of estimates of tax exposures and contingencies in order to assess
The Group operates in a complex multinational tax environment and there
the adequacy of the Group’s tax provisions. This included obtaining and
are open tax and transfer pricing matters with UK and overseas tax
evaluating certain third party tax opinions that the Group has obtained to
authorities. In addition, from time to time the Group enters into
assess the appropriateness of any assumptions used.
transactions with complicated accounting and tax consequences,
including the three-part transaction with Novartis in 2015. Judgement In understanding and evaluating management’s judgements, we considered
is required in assessing the level of provisions required in respect of the status of recent and current tax authority audits and enquiries, the outturn
uncertain tax positions. At 31 December 2015, the Group has of previous claims, judgemental positions taken in tax returns and current year
recognised provisions of £1,687 million in respect of uncertain tax estimates and developments in the tax environment. From the evidence
positions (2014 – £1,344 million). obtained, we considered the level of provisioning to be acceptable in the
context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole. However, we
noted that the assumptions and judgements that are required to formulate the
provisions mean that the range of possible outcomes is broad.GSK Annual Report 2015 135
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
How we tailored the audit scope component teams, largely focused on the impact of the three-part
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed transaction with Novartis alongside other planning and risk
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Group financial assessment activities. In addition, we visited four of the shared
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure service centres supporting reporting components in Group audit
of the Group, the accounting processes and controls and the scope. For those components in Group audit scope where a site visit
industry in which the Group operates. was not undertaken, our involvement included regular dialogue with
our component teams, review of component auditor work papers and
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of over 500
participation in certain component audit clearance meetings.
reporting components. We identified 28 reporting components that,
in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information Further specific audit procedures over central functions, the Group
due to their size or risk characteristics. Specific audit procedures consolidation and areas of significant judgement (including taxation,
over significant balances and transactions were performed at a goodwill, intangible assets, treasury, post-retirement benefits,
further 39 reporting components to give appropriate coverage litigation and the elimination of unrealised intercompany profit in
of material balances. Where these reporting components are inventory) were directly led by the Group audit team.
supported by shared financial service centres, these centres
Taken together, the territories and functions where we performed
were also included in Group audit scope. None of the reporting
our audit work accounted for 65% of consolidated revenue, 80% of
components not included in our Group audit scope individually
consolidated profit before tax and 76% of adjusted profit before tax.
contributed more than 2% to consolidated revenue, profit before
This was before considering the contribution to our audit evidence
tax or adjusted profit before tax.
from performing audit work at the divisional and Group levels,
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we including testing of monitoring controls and disaggregated analytical
determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit review procedures, which covers a significant portion of the Group’s
work at those reporting component units. As a result, nine overseas smaller and lower risk components that were not directly included in
components were visited by senior members of the Group audit our Group audit scope. In addition, we obtained audit evidence over
team, including each of the Group’s financially significant certain out-of-scope components through the procedures we
components in the US (which are visited at least annually) alongside undertook at the Group’s shared service centres, encompassing
Belgium, Japan, Switzerland, Germany and India. We also held a two BPOs and BSCs, and over centralised IT infrastructure where
day audit planning workshop in London attended by 34 of our these processes are standardised.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These,
together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit
procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both
individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall group materiality £200 million (2014 – £215 million).
How we determined it Approximately 4% of profit before tax (£10,526 million), adding back certain non-recurring items
including the re-measurement charge for the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration
(£1,874 million), the re-measurement charge of the Consumer Healthcare put option (£83 million),
major restructuring costs (£1,896 million), legal costs (£221 million), equity investment
impairments (£263 million) and impairment of intangible assets (£206 million) and deducting
non-recurring net income relating to major acquisition and disposal activity (net £10,599 million).
Rationale for benchmark applied The Group’s principal measure of earnings comprises core results, which adds back to statutory
results a number of items of income and expenditure including those detailed above. Management
uses this measure as it believes that it eliminates the volatility inherent in one-off items. We took
this measure into account in determining our materiality, except that we did not adjust profit before
tax to add back amortisation of intangible assets and certain other smaller non-core items as in our
view these are recurring items which do not introduce volatility to the Group’s earnings. Materiality
is lower than last year primarily due to the effect of lower profits in 2015.
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to it misstatements identified during our audit above £10 million
(2014 – £10 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the directors’ that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing
statement, set out on page 130, in relation to going concern. We the Group financial statements. The going concern basis
have nothing to report having performed our review. presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in
operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are also required to report to you if
year from the date the Group financial statements were signed.
we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation
As part of our audit, we have concluded that the directors’ use
to the directors’ statement about whether they considered it
of the going concern basis is appropriate.
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
Group financial statements. We have nothing material to add or However, because not all future events or conditions can be
to draw attention to. predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s
ability to continue as a going concern.136 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Independent Auditors’ report
continued
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the Group financial
statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions
– materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements; or to report.
– apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the
course of performing our audit; or
– otherwise misleading.
• the statement given by the directors on page 130, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance We have no exceptions
Code (the ‘Code’), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and to report.
provides the information necessary for members to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and
strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
• the section of the Annual Report on page 88, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the We have no exceptions
Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee. to report.
The directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or
liquidity of the Group
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
• the directors’ confirmation in the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.1 of the Code, that they have We have nothing material to
carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its add or to draw attention to.
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
• the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated. We have nothing material to
add or to draw attention to.
• the directors’ explanation in the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 of the Code, as to how they We have nothing material to
have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period add or to draw attention to.
to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing
the Group and the directors’ statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group, set out on page 52. Our review was substantially less in
scope than an audit and only consisted of making enquiries and considering the directors’ process supporting their statements; checking that the
statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge
acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Corporate governance statement
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the part of the
if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions
explanations we require for our audit. We have no exceptions to of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report
report arising from this responsibility. having performed our review.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report
arising from this responsibility.GSK Annual Report 2015 137
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Responsibilities for the financial statements Other matters
and the audit
We have reported separately on the parent company financial
Our responsibilities and those of the directors statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended
31 December 2015 and on the information in the directors’
As explained more fully in the directors’ statement of
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
responsibilities set out on page 130, the directors are responsible
for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being The company has passed a resolution in accordance with section
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory auditor’s
name should not be stated.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other London
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 16 March 2016
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. Notes:
What an audit of financial statements involves (a) T he maintenance and integrity of the GlaxoSmithKline plc
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these
assurance that the financial statements are free from material matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an for any changes that may have occurred to the financial
assessment of: statements since they were initially presented on the website.
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s (b) L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation
circumstances and have been consistently applied and and dissemination of financial statements may differ from
adequately disclosed; legislation in other jurisdictions.
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made
by the directors; and
• the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the
directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our
own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial
statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain
audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls,
substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements
or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.138 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2015
2015 2014 2013
Notes £m £m £m
Turnover 6 23,923 23,006 26,505
Cost of sales (8,853) (7,323) (8,585)
Gross profit 15,070 15,683 17,920
Selling, general and administration (9,232) (8,246) (8,480)
Research and development (3,560) (3,450) (3,923)
Royalty income 329 310 387
Other operating income 7 7,715 (700) 1,124
Operating profit 8 10,322 3,597 7,028
Finance income 11 104 68 61
Finance expense 12 (757) (727) (767)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates 843 – 282
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 13 14 30 43
Profit before taxation 10,526 2,968 6,647
Taxation 14 (2,154) (137) (1,019)
Profit after taxation for the year 8,372 2,831 5,628
(Loss)/profit attributable to non-controlling interests (50) 75 192
Profit attributable to shareholders 8,422 2,756 5,436
8,372 2,831 5,628
Basic earnings per share (pence) 15 174.3p 57.3p 112.5p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 15 172.3p 56.7p 110.5p
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2015
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Profit for the year 8,372 2,831 5,628
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 34 (618) (497) (255)
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries 34 – (219) –
Deferred tax on exchange movements – (2) –
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments 416 29 367
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (91) (78) (29)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (346) (155) (38)
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of available-for-sale investments 36 58 7
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 2 5 (9)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (1) 1
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement 2 (5) 2
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures (77) 18 15
(676) (847) 61
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests 8 16 (35)
Remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans 261 (1,181) 847
Deferred tax on remeasurement gains/(losses) in defined benefit plans (80) 262 (286)
189 (903) 526
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year 34 (487) (1,750) 587
Total comprehensive income for the year 7,885 1,081 6,215
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders 7,927 990 6,058
Non-controlling interests (42) 91 157
Total comprehensive income for the year 7,885 1,081 6,215GSK Annual Report 2015 139
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 December 2015
2015 2014
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 17 9,668 9,052
Goodwill 18 5,162 3,724
Other intangible assets 19 16,672 8,320
Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 207 340
Other investments 21 1,255 1,114
Deferred tax assets 14 2,905 2,688
Other non-current assets 22 990 735
Total non-current assets 36,859 25,973
Current assets
Inventories 23 4,716 4,231
Current tax recoverable 14 180 138
Trade and other receivables 24 5,615 4,600
Derivative financial instruments 41 125 146
Liquid investments 31 75 69
Cash and cash equivalents 25 5,830 4,338
Assets held for sale 26 46 1,156
Total current assets 16,587 14,678
Total assets 53,446 40,651
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 31 (1,308) (2,943)
Trade and other payables 27 (9,191) (7,958)
Derivative financial instruments 41 (153) (404)
Current tax payable 14 (1,421) (945)
Short-term provisions 29 (1,344) (1,045)
Total current liabilities (13,417) (13,295)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 31 (15,324) (15,841)
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (1,522) (445)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 28 (3,229) (3,179)
Other provisions 29 (420) (545)
Derivative financial instruments 41 – (9)
Other non-current liabilities 30 (10,656) (2,401)
Total non-current liabilities (31,151) (22,420)
Total liabilities (44,568) (35,715)
Net assets 8,878 4,936
Equity
Share capital 33 1,340 1,339
Share premium account 33 2,831 2,759
Retained earnings 34 (1,397) (2,074)
Other reserves 34 2,340 2,239
Shareholders’ equity 5,114 4,263
Non-controlling interests 3,764 673
Total equity 8,878 4,936
The financial statements on pages 138 to 210 were approved by the Board on 16 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by
Philip Hampton
Chairman140 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial statements
continued
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Shareholders’ equity
Non-
Share Share Retained Other controlling Total
capital premium earnings reserves Total interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2013 1,349 2,022 642 1,787 5,800 937 6,737
Profit for the year – – 5,436 – 5,436 192 5,628
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year – – 316 306 622 (35) 587
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 5,752 306 6,058 157 6,215
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (238) (238)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,680) – (3,680) – (3,680)
Changes in non-controlling interests – – (584) – (584) (41) (625)
Ordinary Shares issued 12 573 – – 585 – 585
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled or held as Treasury shares (25) – (1,504) 25 (1,504) – (1,504)
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – – (45) (45) – (45)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (80) 80 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 294 – 294 – 294
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 73 – 73 – 73
At 31 December 2013 1,336 2,595 913 2,153 6,997 815 7,812
Profit for the year – – 2,756 – 2,756 75 2,831
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – (1,626) (140) (1,766) 16 (1,750)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year – – 1,130 (140) 990 91 1,081
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (205) (205)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,843) – (3,843) – (3,843)
Changes in non-controlling interests – – (58) – (58) (28) (86)
Forward contract relating to non-controlling interest – – – 21 21 – 21
Ordinary Shares issued 3 164 – – 167 – 167
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled or held as Treasury shares – – (238) – (238) – (238)
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – 150 (245) (95) – (95)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (450) 450 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 326 – 326 – 326
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – (4) – (4) – (4)
At 31 December 2014 1,339 2,759 (2,074) 2,239 4,263 673 4,936
Profit/(loss) for the year – – 8,422 – 8,422 (50) 8,372
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – (520) 25 (495) 8 (487)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year – – 7,902 25 7,927 (42) 7,885
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (237) (237)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,874) – (3,874) – (3,874)
Gains on transfer of net assets into Consumer Healthcare
Joint Venture – – 2,891 – 2,891 – 2,891
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture put option – – (6,204) – (6,204) – (6,204)
Changes in non-controlling interests – – – – – 3,370 3,370
Loss on transfer of equity investment to investment in associate – – (229) – (229) – (229)
Ordinary Shares issued 1 72 – – 73 – 73
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – – (99) (99) – (99)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (175) 175 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 356 – 356 – 356
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 10 – 10 – 10
At 31 December 2015 1,340 2,831 (1,397) 2,340 5,114 3,764 8,878GSK Annual Report 2015 141
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2015
2015 2014 2013
Notes £m £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit after taxation for the year 8,372 2,831 5,628
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows 36 (3,741) 3,453 2,871
Cash generated from operations 4,631 6,284 8,499
Taxation paid (2,062) (1,108) (1,277)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 2,569 5,176 7,222
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,380) (1,188) (1,188)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 72 39 46
Purchase of intangible assets (521) (563) (513)
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 236 330 136
Purchase of equity investments (82) (83) (133)
Proceeds from sale of equity investments 357 205 59
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 38 (3,541) (104) (247)
Disposal of businesses 38 10,246 225 1,851
Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 (16) (9) (8)
Proceeds from disposal of subsidiary and interest in associate 564 1 429
(Increase)/decrease in liquid investments (2) 1 15
Interest received 99 63 59
Dividends from associates and joint ventures 5 5 18
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities 6,037 (1,078) 524
Cash flow from financing activities
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (99) (95) (45)
Issue of share capital 33 73 167 585
Purchase of own shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares – (238) (1,504)
Purchase of non-controlling interests – (679) (588)
Increase in long-term loans – 1,960 1,913
Repayment of short-term loans (2,412) (1,709) (1,872)
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases (25) (23) (31)
Interest paid (762) (707) (749)
Dividends paid to shareholders (3,874) (3,843) (3,680)
Distributions to non-controlling interests (237) (205) (238)
Other financing cash flows 233 (13) (64)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (7,103) (5,385) (6,273)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 37 1,503 (1,287) 1,473
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 4,028 5,231 3,906
Exchange adjustments (45) 84 (148)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 1,503 (1,287) 1,473
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 5,486 4,028 5,231
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents 5,830 4,338 5,534
Overdrafts (344) (310) (303)
5,486 4,028 5,231142 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
1 Presentation of the financial statements Implementation of new accounting standards
An amendment to IAS 19 ‘Defined benefit plans: Employee
Description of business contribution’ was issued in November 2013 and was implemented
GSK is a major global healthcare group which is engaged in the by GSK from 1 January 2015. The amendment provides additional
creation and discovery, development, manufacture and marketing guidance on the treatment of contributions to defined benefit
of pharmaceutical products including vaccines, over-the-counter plans from employees and third parties and has no material impact
(OTC) medicines and health-related consumer products. GSK’s on the current period.
principal pharmaceutical products include medicines in the
Financial period
following therapeutic areas: respiratory, anti-virals, central nervous
system, cardiovascular and urogenital, metabolic, anti-bacterials, These financial statements cover the financial year from 1 January
dermatology, rare diseases, immuno-inflammation, vaccines to 31 December 2015, with comparative figures for the financial
and HIV. years from 1 January to 31 December 2014 and, where
appropriate, from 1 January to 31 December 2013.
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS
Parent company financial statements
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and The financial statements of the parent company, GlaxoSmithKline
International Accounting Standards (IAS) and International plc, have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and with UK
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and related interpretations, accounting presentation. The company balance sheet is presented
as adopted by the European Union. on page 213 and the accounting policies are given on page 214.
The financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. 2 Accounting principles and policies
Composition of financial statements Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling, The consolidated financial statements include:
the functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in accordance
• the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows,
with IFRS accounting presentation. The financial statements
of the company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts
comprise:
• the Group’s share of the results and net assets of associates
• Consolidated income statement
and joint ventures
• Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
• the Group’s share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses
• Consolidated balance sheet of joint operations.
• Consolidated statement of changes in equity The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up
to 31 December each year.
• Consolidated cash flow statement
Entities over which the Group has the power to direct the relevant
• Notes to the financial statements.
activities so as to affect the returns to the Group, generally through
Composition of the Group control over the financial and operating policies, are accounted for
A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings which, in the as subsidiaries. Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint
opinion of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit control over, and rights to the net assets of, entities, the entities
or the net assets of the Group is given in Note 44, ‘Principal are accounted for as joint ventures. Where the Group has the
Group companies’. ability to exercise joint control over an arrangement, but has rights
to specified assets and obligations for specified liabilities of the
Accounting principles and policies
arrangement, the arrangement is accounted for as a joint
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical
operation. Where the Group has the ability to exercise significant
cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain items, as
influence over entities, they are accounted for as associates.
stated in the accounting policies, and on a going concern basis.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance ventures are incorporated into the consolidated financial
with the Group’s accounting policies approved by the Board statements using the equity method of accounting. The
and described in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles and policies’. Group’s rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses
Information on the application of these accounting policies, of joint operations are included in the consolidated financial
including areas of estimation and judgement is given in Note 3, statements in accordance with those rights and obligations.
‘Key accounting judgements and estimates’.
Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with Group acquires control and interests sold are de-consolidated
generally accepted accounting principles requires management from the date control ceases.
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.GSK Annual Report 2015 143
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
2 Accounting principles and policies continued Revenue
Revenue is recognised in the income statement when goods or
Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated services are supplied or made available to external customers
and no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries against orders received, title and risk of loss is passed to the
until the products are sold to customers outside the Group. The customer, reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions
relevant proportion of profits on transactions with joint ventures, and all relevant obligations have been fulfilled, such that the
joint operations and associates is also deferred until the products earnings process is regarded as being complete.
are sold to third parties. Transactions with non-controlling interests
are recorded directly in equity. Deferred tax relief on unrealised Turnover represents net invoice value after the deduction of
intra-Group profit is accounted for only to the extent that it is discounts and allowances given and accruals for estimated future
considered recoverable. rebates and returns. The methodology and assumptions used to
estimate rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly
Goodwill is capitalised as a separate item in the case of in the light of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends,
subsidiaries and as part of the cost of investment in the case past experience and projected market conditions. Market
of joint ventures and associates. Goodwill is denominated conditions are evaluated using wholesaler and other third-party
in the currency of the operation acquired. analyses, market research data and internally generated
Where the cost of acquisition is below the fair value of the information. Value added tax and other sales taxes are excluded
net assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in from revenue.
the income statement. Where the Group co-promotes a product and the counterparty
Business combinations records the sale, the Group records its share of revenue as
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition co-promotion income within turnover. The nature of co-promotion
accounting method. Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent activities is such that the Group records no costs of sales.
liabilities acquired are measured at fair value at acquisition date. Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion revenue of
The consideration transferred is measured at fair value and £14 million (2014 – £22 million; 2013 – £37 million). In addition,
includes the fair value of any contingent consideration. Where initial or event-based milestone income (excluding royalty income)
the consideration transferred, together with the non-controlling arising on development or marketing collaborations of the Group’s
interest, exceeds the fair value of the net assets, liabilities and compounds or products with other parties is recognised in
contingent liabilities acquired, the excess is recorded as goodwill. turnover. Milestone income of £nil is included in turnover
The costs of acquisition are charged to the income statement in (2014 – £57 million; 2013 – £78 million).
the period in which they are incurred. Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance
Where not all of the equity of a subsidiary is acquired the non- with the terms of the relevant licensing agreements.
controlling interest is recognised either at fair value or at the Expenditure
non-controlling interest’s share of the net assets of the subsidiary, Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services
on a case-by-case basis. Changes in the Group’s ownership received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
percentage of subsidiaries are accounted for within equity. Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability
Foreign currency translation in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation
Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional can be reliably estimated. Manufacturing start-up costs between
currency of the Group company at the exchange rate ruling on validation and the achievement of normal production are expensed
the date of transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets and as incurred. Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged
liabilities are retranslated into the functional currency at rates of to the income statement as incurred. Shipment costs on inter-
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences company transfers are charged to cost of sales; distribution
are included in the income statement. costs on sales to customers are included in selling, general
and administrative expenditure.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities, including related goodwill,
of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, are Restructuring costs are recognised and provided for, where
translated into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance appropriate, in respect of the direct expenditure of a business
sheet date. The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and
associates and joint ventures are translated into Sterling using well advanced, and where appropriate communication to those
average rates of exchange. affected has been undertaken.
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets
and the profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries,
associates and joint ventures are translated into Sterling, less
exchange differences arising on related foreign currency
borrowings which hedge the Group’s net investment in these
operations, are taken to a separate component of equity.
When translating into Sterling the assets, liabilities, results and
cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
which are reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies,
adjustments are made where material to reflect current price levels.
Any loss on net monetary assets is charged to the consolidated
income statement.144 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
2 Accounting principles and policies continued Employee share plans
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under
Research and development share option and share award schemes.
Research and development expenditure is charged to the income
statement in the period in which it is incurred. Development The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at
expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for recognising an their grant dates using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and
asset are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods.
major market and approval is considered highly probable. Property, The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase company
plant and equipment used for research and development is shares to meet the obligation to provide shares when employees
capitalised and depreciated in accordance with the Group’s policy. exercise their options or awards. Costs of running the ESOP
Environmental expenditure Trusts are charged to the income statement. Shares held by the
Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves. A transfer is made
from past or current operations and from which no current or between other reserves and retained earnings over the vesting
future benefit is discernible is charged to the income statement. periods of the related share options or awards to reflect the
The Group recognises its liability on a site-by-site basis when ultimate proceeds receivable from employees on exercise.
it can be reliably estimated. This liability includes the Group’s Property, plant and equipment
portion of the total costs and also a portion of other potentially Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) is stated at the cost of
responsible parties’ costs when it is probable that they will not be purchase or construction less provisions for depreciation and
able to satisfy their respective shares of the clean-up obligation. impairment. Financing costs are capitalised within the cost of
Recoveries of reimbursements are recorded as assets when qualifying assets in construction.
virtually certain.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual value
Legal and other disputes of PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line basis over
Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal the expected useful life. Residual values and lives are reviewed,
or other disputes against the Group where an outflow of resources and where appropriate adjusted, annually. The normal expected
is considered probable and a reliable estimate can be made of useful lives of the major categories of PP&E are:
the likely outcome. In addition, provision is made for legal or
other expenses arising from claims received or other disputes. Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years
In respect of product liability claims related to certain products, Leasehold land and buildings Lease term or 20 to 50 years
there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years
enable management to make a reliable estimate of the provision Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years
required to cover unasserted claims. In certain cases, an incurred
but not reported (IBNR) actuarial technique is used to determine On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated
this estimate. depreciation and impairments are removed from the financial
statements and the net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to
The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in respect the income statement.
of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the
Leases
expected financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate
resolution of the proceedings. In these cases, appropriate Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially
disclosure about such cases would be included but no provision all the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as
would be made. Costs associated with claims made by the Group finance leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright. The
against third parties are charged to the income statement as they assets are included in PP&E or computer software and the capital
are incurred. elements of the leasing commitments are shown as obligations
under finance leases. Assets held under finance leases are
Pensions and other post-employment benefits depreciated on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or
The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes the lease term if shorter. The interest element of the lease rental
are calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread is included in the income statement. All other leases are operating
over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from leases and the rental costs are charged to the income statement
the employees’ services, consistent with the advice of qualified on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
actuaries. Pension obligations are measured as the present value
Goodwill
of estimated future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the
yields of high quality corporate bonds. Pension scheme assets Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments. Goodwill is deemed
are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date. to have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment at
least annually.
The costs of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in
a similar way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s assets,
over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid,
from the employees’ services, in accordance with the advice of this excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the income
qualified actuaries. statement.
Actuarial gains and losses and the effect of changes in actuarial
assumptions, are recognised in the statement of comprehensive
income in the year in which they arise.
The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are
charged to the income statement as incurred.GSK Annual Report 2015 145
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
2 Accounting principles and policies continued Available-for-sale investments
Liquid investments and other investments are classified as
Other intangible assets available-for-sale investments and are initially recorded at fair
Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for amortisation value plus transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent
and impairments. reporting dates to fair value. Unrealised gains and losses on
Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately available-for-sale investments are recognised directly in other
acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are comprehensive income. Impairments arising from the significant
amortised over their estimated useful lives, generally not exceeding or prolonged decline in fair value of an equity investment reduce
20 years, using the straight-line basis, from the time they are the carrying amount of the asset directly and are charged to the
available for use. The estimated useful lives for determining the income statement.
amortisation charge take into account patent lives, where On disposal or impairment of the investments, any gains and
applicable, as well as the value obtained from periods of non- losses that have been deferred in other comprehensive income
exclusivity. Asset lives are reviewed, and where appropriate are reclassified to the income statement. Dividends on equity
adjusted, annually. Contingent milestone payments are recognised investments are recognised in the income statement when the
at the point that the contingent event becomes probable. Any Group’s right to receive payment is established. Equity investments
development costs incurred by the Group and associated with are recorded in non-current assets unless they are expected to be
acquired licences, patents, know-how or marketing rights are sold within one year.
written off to the income statement when incurred, unless the
criteria for recognition of an internally generated intangible asset Purchases and sales of equity investments are accounted for on
are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major the trade date and purchases and sales of other available-for-sale
market and approval is considered highly probable. investments are accounted for on settlement date.
Inventories
Acquired brands are valued independently as part of the fair value
of businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower of
value which is substantial and long term and where the brands cost (including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and
either are contractual or legal in nature or can be sold separately related production overheads) and net realisable value. Cost is
from the rest of the businesses acquired. Brands are amortised generally determined on a first in, first out basis. Pre-launch
over their estimated useful lives of up to 20 years, except where inventory is held as an asset when there is a high probability of
it is considered that the useful economic life is indefinite. regulatory approval for the product. Before that point a provision
is made against the carrying value to its recoverable amount; the
The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for provision is then reversed at the point when a high probability of
internal use and internet sites for external use are capitalised regulatory approval is determined.
as intangible fixed assets where the software or site supports
Trade receivables
a significant business system and the expenditure leads to the
creation of a durable asset. ERP systems software is amortised Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount less any
over seven to ten years and other computer software over three provisions for doubtful debts. Provisions are made where there
to five years. is evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing,
previous experience and general economic conditions. When a
Impairment of non-current assets trade receivable is determined to be uncollectable it is written off,
The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for firstly against any provision available and then to the income
impairment, either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a larger statement.
cash generating unit, when there is an indication that the assets
might be impaired. Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for are
indefinite useful lives and intangible assets which are not yet credited to the income statement. Long-term receivables are
available for use are tested for impairment annually. Any provision discounted where the effect is material.
for impairment is charged to the income statement in the year Borrowings
concerned. All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds
Impairments of goodwill are not reversed. Impairment losses on received, net of transaction costs. Borrowings are subsequently
other non-current assets are only reversed if there has been a carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the
change in estimates used to determine recoverable amounts proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the amount due on
and only to the extent that the revised recoverable amounts do redemption being recognised as a charge to the income
not exceed the carrying values that would have existed, net of statement over the period of the relevant borrowing.
depreciation or amortisation, had no impairments been recognised.
Investments in associates, joint ventures and joint operations
Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the
consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share of their net
assets at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition
retained profits or losses together with any goodwill arising
on the acquisition. The Group recognises its rights to assets,
liabilities, revenue and expenses of joint operations.146 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
2 Accounting principles and policies continued 3 Key accounting judgements and estimates
Taxation In preparing the financial statements, management is required
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of
applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in the financial
by the balance sheet date. statements. Actual amounts and results could differ from those
estimates. The following are considered to be the key accounting
Deferred tax is provided in full, on temporary differences arising
judgements and estimates made.
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying
amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets are Turnover
recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable Revenue is recognised when title and risk of loss is passed to the
profits will be available against which the temporary differences customer, reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions
can be utilised. Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences and all relevant obligations have been fulfilled, such that the
arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint earnings process is regarded as being complete.
ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary
Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, allowances
difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary
and product returns given or expected to be given, which vary by
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax is
product arrangements and buying groups. These arrangements
provided using rates of tax that have been enacted or substantively
with purchasing organisations are dependent upon the submission
enacted by the balance sheet date.
of claims some time after the initial recognition of
Derivative financial instruments and hedging the sale. Accruals are made at the time of sale for the estimated
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to rebates, discounts or allowances payable or returns to be made,
market risks. The principal derivative instruments used by GSK based on available market information and historical experience.
are foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, foreign exchange
Because the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the
forward contracts and options. The Group does not hold or issue
final outcome, and the amounts are subject to change dependent
derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative
upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product
purposes.
sales mix.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as held-for-trading
The level of accrual is reviewed and adjusted regularly in the
and are carried in the balance sheet at fair value. Derivatives
light of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past
designated as hedging instruments are classified on inception
experience and projected market conditions. Market conditions
as cash flow hedges, net investment hedges or fair value hedges.
are evaluated using wholesaler and other third-party analyses,
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow market research data and internally generated information.
hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the
Future events could cause the assumptions on which the
extent that the hedges are effective. Ineffective portions are
accruals are based to change, which could affect the future
recognised in profit or loss immediately. Amounts deferred
results of the Group.
in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income
statement when the hedged item affects profit or loss. Taxation
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid,
Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way
and deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between
to cash flow hedges.
the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts,
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value at the rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by
hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the balance sheet date.
the changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do probable that future taxable profits will be available against
not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately which the temporary differences can be utilised, based on
in the income statement. management’s assumptions relating to the amounts and timing
of future taxable profits. Factors affecting the tax charge in
Discounting
future years are set out in Note 14, ‘Taxation’. A 1% change
Where the time value of money is material, balances are
in the Group’s effective tax rate in 2015 would have changed
discounted to current values using appropriate rates of interest.
the total tax charge for the year by approximately £105 million.
The unwinding of the discounts is recorded in finance income
and finance expense. The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue
authorities. Where an outflow of funds is believed to be probable
and a reliable estimate of the outcome of the dispute can be made,
management provides for its best estimate of the liability. In
calculating any such liability GSK applies a risk based approach
which takes into account, as appropriate, the probability that the
Group would be able to obtain compensatory adjustments under
international tax treaties. These estimates take into account the
specific circumstances of each dispute and relevant external
advice, are inherently judgemental and could change substantially
over time as new facts emerge and each dispute progresses. GSK
continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the
liabilities likely to arise from open assessments. Where open
issues exist the ultimate liability for such matters may vary from
the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of
negotiations with the relevant tax authorities or, if necessary,
litigation proceedings.GSK Annual Report 2015 147
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
3 Key accounting judgements and estimates Business combinations
Any contingent consideration included in the consideration
continued
payable for a business combination is recorded at fair value
Legal and other disputes at the date of acquisition. These fair values are generally based
The Group provides for anticipated settlement costs where on risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted using appropriate
an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable interest rates. The fair values are reviewed on a regular basis,
estimate may be made of the likely outcome of the dispute and at least annually, and any changes are reflected in the income
legal and other expenses arising from claims against the Group. statement.
These estimates take into account the specific circumstances
At 31 December 2015, the liability for contingent consideration
of each dispute and relevant external advice, are inherently
amounted to £3,855 million (2014 – £1,724 million) (see Note 38,
judgmental and could change substantially over time as new
‘Acquisitions and disposals’). Of this amount, £3,409 million
facts emerge and each dispute progresses. Details of the status
(2014 – £1,684 million) arose on the acquisition of the former
and various uncertainties involved in the significant unresolved
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012 and £405 million
disputes are set out in Note 45, ‘Legal proceedings’.
arose on the acquisition of the Vaccines business from Novartis
The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have in 2015.
established provisions after taking into account the relevant
During 2015, the Group granted a put option to Novartis in
facts and circumstances of each matter and in accordance with
respect of Novartis’ shareholding in the Consumer Healthcare
accounting requirements. In respect of product liability claims
Joint Venture. In certain circumstances, Novartis has the right to
related to certain products there is sufficient history of claims
require GSK to acquire its 36.5% shareholding in the Consumer
made and settlements to enable management to make a reliable
Healthcare Joint Venture at a market-based valuation. This right is
estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims.
exercisable in certain windows from 2018 to 2035 and may be
The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in respect
exercised either in respect of Novartis’ entire shareholding or in
of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the
up to four instalments. GSK has recognised a financial liability of
expected financial effect, if any, that will result from ultimate
£6,287 million in Other non-current liabilities at 31 December
resolution of the proceedings. In these cases, appropriate
2015. This represents the present value of the estimated amount
disclosure about such cases would be included, but no provision
payable by GSK in the event of full exercise of the right by Novartis
would be made and no contingent liability can be quantified.
and is calculated by applying market-based multiples to forecast
At 31 December 2015 provisions for legal and other disputes
future profits in accordance with the shareholder agreements.
amounted to £0.4 billion (2014 – £0.5 billion).
Sensitivity analysis is given in Note 30, ‘Other non-current
The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts liabilities’.
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
The assumptions relating to future cash flows and discount rates
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations. are based on business forecasts and are therefore inherently
The position could change over time and, therefore, there can be
judgemental. Future events could cause the assumptions used
no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any
in these projections or the market-based multiples to change with
legal proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions
a consequent adverse effect on the future results of the Group.
reported in the Group’s financial statements by a material amount.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
Goodwill and other intangible asset impairments
The costs of providing pensions and other post-employment
Goodwill is deemed to have an indefinite life and so is not
benefits are charged to the income statement in accordance with
amortised. Annual impairment tests of the cash generating
IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’ over the period during which benefit
units to which goodwill is allocated are performed. Impairment
is derived from the employee’s services. The costs are assessed
tests are based on established market multiples or risk-adjusted
on the basis of assumptions selected by management. These
future cash flows discounted using appropriate interest rates.
assumptions include future earnings and pension increases,
The assumptions used in these impairment tests are set out
discount rates, expected long-term rates of return on assets and
in Note 18, ‘Goodwill’.
mortality rates, and are disclosed in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other
In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such post-employment benefits’. Where a surplus on a defined benefit
that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely scheme arises, or there is potential for a surplus to arise from
to result in an impairment of the related goodwill. committed future contributions, the rights of the Trustees to
prevent the Group obtaining a refund of that surplus in the future
Impairment tests on other intangible assets are undertaken if
are considered in determining whether it is necessary to restrict
events occur which call into question the carrying values of the
the amount of the surplus that is recognised.
assets. Where brands and other intangible assets which are not
yet available for use are not amortised, they are subject to annual The expected long-term rates of return on bonds are determined
impairment tests. Valuations for impairment tests are based on based on the portfolio mix of index-linked, government and
established market multiples or risk-adjusted future cash flows corporate bonds. An equity risk premium is added to this for
over the estimated useful life of the asset, where limited, equities.
discounted using appropriate interest rates as set out in
Discount rates are derived from AA rated corporate bond yields
Note 19, ‘Other intangible assets’.
except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate
The assumptions relating to future cash flows, estimated useful bonds where government bond yields are used. Sensitivity analysis
lives and discount rates are based on business forecasts and are is provided in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other post-employment
therefore inherently judgemental. Future events could cause the benefits’, but a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would lead to
assumptions used in these impairment tests to change with a an increase in the net pension deficit of approximately £630 million
consequent adverse effect on the future results of the Group. and an increase in the annual pension cost of approximately
£24 million. The selection of different assumptions could affect
the future results of the Group.148 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
4 New accounting requirements 5 Exchange rates
The following new and amended accounting standards have been The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during
issued by the IASB and are likely to affect future Annual Reports. the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas
The amendment to IFRS 11 is not expected to have a material subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings into
impact on the results and financial position of the Group. The Sterling and period end rates to translate the net assets of
impacts of IFRS 15, IFRS 9 and IFRS 16 on the results and those undertakings. The currencies which most influence
financial position of the Group are currently being assessed. these translations and the relevant exchange rates were:
An amendment to IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’ was issued in May 2015 2014 2013
2014 and will be implemented by the Group from 1 January 2016. Average rates:
The amendment requires the acquisition of a joint operation that US$/£ 1.53 1.65 1.57
meets the definition of a business to be accounted for in
Euro/£ 1.37 1.24 1.18
accordance with IFRS 3 ‘Business combinations’.
Yen/£ 185 175 153
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ was issued in
May 2014 and will be implemented by the Group from 1 January Period end rates:
2018. The Standard provides a single, principles-based approach US$/£ 1.47 1.56 1.66
to the recognition of revenue from all contracts with customers. Euro/£ 1.36 1.29 1.20
It focuses on the identification of performance obligations in a Yen/£ 177 187 174
contract and requires revenue to be recognised when or as those
performance obligations are satisfied.
IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ was issued in its final form in July
2014 and will be implemented by the Group from 1 January 2018.
The Standard will replace the majority of IAS 39 and covers the
classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets
and financial liabilities, impairment of financial assets and provides
a new hedge accounting model.
IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ was issued in January 2016 and will be
implemented by the Group from 1 January 2019. The Standard will
replace IAS 17 ‘Leases’ and will require lease liabilities and right of
use assets to be recognised on the balance sheet for almost all
leases.GSK Annual Report 2015 149
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
6 Segment information
Operating segments are reported based on the financial information provided to the Chief Executive Officer and the responsibilities
of the Corporate Executive Team (CET). The completion of the Novartis transaction on 2 March 2015 has changed the balance of the
Group and GSK has changed its segment reporting to reflect this. With effect from 1 January 2015, GSK has reported results under
five segments: Global Pharmaceuticals, HIV, Pharmaceuticals R&D, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare and individual members of
the CET are responsible for each segment. Comparative information has been restated accordingly. In addition, the 2013 segment
turnover and profit have been restated to exclude the divestments completed in 2013.
The Group’s management reporting process allocates intra-Group profit on a product sale to the market in which that sale is
recorded, and the profit analyses below have been presented on that basis.
The Pharmaceuticals R&D segment is the responsibility of the Head of Research & Development and is reported as a separate
segment.
Corporate and other unallocated turnover and costs include the results of several Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare products
which were held for sale in a number of markets in order to meet anti-trust approval requirements, together with the costs of
corporate functions.
From 1 January 2016, the Global Pharmaceuticals and HIV segments will be combined as one operating segment: Pharmaceuticals.
2014 2013
2015 (restated) (restated)
Turnover by segment £m £m £m
Global Pharmaceuticals 11,844 13,950 15,983
HIV 2,322 1,498 1,386
Pharmaceuticals 14,166 15,448 17,369
Vaccines 3,657 3,159 3,384
Consumer Healthcare 6,028 4,312 4,703
Segment turnover 23,851 22,919 25,456
Corporate and other unallocated turnover 72 87 146
23,923 23,006 25,602
Divestments completed in 2013 – – 903
23,923 23,006 26,505
2014 2013
2015 (restated) (restated)
Global Pharmaceuticals turnover by therapeutic area £m £m £m
Respiratory 5,741 6,168 7,259
Cardiovascular, metabolic and urology 858 965 1,073
Immuno-inflammation 263 214 161
Oncology 255 1,202 969
Other pharmaceuticals 2,199 2,390 2,652
Established Products 2,528 3,011 3,869
11,844 13,950 15,983150 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
6 Segment information continued
2014 2013
2015 (restated) (restated)
Consumer Healthcare turnover by category
£m £m £m
Wellness 2,970 1,565 1,807
Oral care 1,866 1,797 1,884
Nutrition 684 633 627
Skin health 508 317 385
6,028 4,312 4,703
During 2015, the US elements of Global Pharmaceuticals, HIV and Vaccines made sales to three wholesalers of approximately
£1,574 million (2014 – £1,478 million; 2013 – £2,071 million), £2,471 million (2014 – £2,315 million; 2013 – £2,658 million) and
£1,602 million (2014 – £1,627 million; 2013 – £1,695 million) respectively, after allocating final-customer discounts to the wholesalers.
2014 2013
Segment profit 2015 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Global Pharmaceuticals 4,733 6,388 7,976
HIV 1,686 977 885
Pharmaceuticals R&D (2,168) (2,326) (2,804)
Pharmaceuticals 4,251 5,039 6,057
Vaccines 966 997 963
Consumer Healthcare 680 491 650
Segment profit 5,897 6,527 7,670
Corporate and other unallocated costs (168) 67 101
Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit 4,593 (2,997) (743)
Operating profit 10,322 3,597 7,028
Finance income 104 68 61
Finance costs (757) (727) (767)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates 843 – 282
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 14 30 43
Profit before taxation 10,526 2,968 6,647
Taxation (2,154) (137) (1,019)
Profit after taxation for the year 8,372 2,831 5,628
Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit comprise items not specifically allocated to segment profit.
These include impairment and amortisation of intangible assets, major restructuring charges, legal charges and expenses on the
settlement of litigation and government investigations, disposals of businesses, products and associates and certain other items related
to major acquisition and disposal activity.
2014 2013
Depreciation and amortisation by segment 2015 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Global Pharmaceuticals 302 298 290
HIV 1 4 2
Pharmaceuticals R&D 238 161 171
Pharmaceuticals 541 463 463
Vaccines 253 224 217
Consumer Healthcare 140 105 74
Segment depreciation and amortisation 934 792 754
Corporate and other unallocated depreciation and amortisation 145 112 109
Other reconciling items between segment depreciation and amortisation and
total depreciation and amortisation 551 580 551
Total depreciation and amortisation 1,630 1,484 1,414GSK Annual Report 2015 151
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
6 Segment information continued
2014 2013
PP&E, intangible asset and goodwill impairment by segment 2015 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Global Pharmaceuticals 57 52 35
HIV – 2 –
Pharmaceuticals R&D 105 24 22
Pharmaceuticals 162 78 57
Vaccines 17 1 2
Consumer Healthcare 5 16 11
Segment impairment 184 95 70
Corporate and other unallocated impairment 18 3 –
Other reconciling items between segment impairment and total impairment 385 153 799
Total impairment 587 251 869
2014 2013
PP&E and intangible asset impairment reversals by segment 2015 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Global Pharmaceuticals (8) (39) (18)
HIV – – –
Pharmaceuticals R&D (10) (23) (2)
Pharmaceuticals (18) (62) (20)
Vaccines – – –
Consumer Healthcare (4) (14) (4)
Segment impairment reversals (22) (76) (24)
Corporate and other unallocated impairment reversals (2) – –
Total impairment reversals (24) (76) (24)
2014
2015 (restated)
Net assets by segment £m £m
Global Pharmaceuticals 7,257 10,736
HIV (1,536) 301
Pharmaceuticals R&D 615 542
Pharmaceuticals 6,336 11,579
Vaccines 8,884 5,681
Consumer Healthcare 4,154 3,110
Segment net operating assets 19,374 20,370
Corporate and other unallocated net operating assets (136) (3,722)
Net operating assets 19,238 16,648
Net debt (10,727) (14,377)
Investments in associates and joint ventures 207 340
Derivative financial instruments (28) (267)
Current and deferred taxation 142 1,436
Assets held for sale 46 1,156
Net assets 8,878 4,936
The HIV segment includes the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability of £3,409 million (2014 – £1,684 million).
The Consumer Healthcare segment includes the put option liability of £6,287 million (2014 – £nil).152 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
6 Segment information continued
Geographical information
The UK is regarded as being the Group’s country of domicile.
2014 2013
2015 (restated) (restated)
Turnover by location of customer £m £m £m
UK 1,106 1,100 1,480
US 8,222 7,409 8,770
International 14,595 14,497 16,255
External turnover 23,923 23,006 26,505
2015 2014 2013
Turnover by location of subsidiary £m £m £m
UK 3,146 3,518 4,174
US 13,273 10,768 11,684
International 17,385 17,227 18,515
Turnover including inter-segment turnover 33,804 31,513 34,373
UK 1,751 1,994 1,772
US 4,934 3,432 3,026
International 3,196 3,081 3,070
Inter-segment turnover 9,881 8,507 7,868
UK 1,395 1,524 2,402
US 8,339 7,336 8,658
International 14,189 14,146 15,445
External turnover 23,923 23,006 26,505
2015 2014 2013
Operating profit by location £m £m £m
UK 8,243 414 568
US 4,307 1,375 3,063
International (2,228) 1,808 3,397
Total operating profit 10,322 3,597 7,028
2015 2014
Non-current assets by location £m £m
UK 6,967 6,688
US 7,524 6,512
International 17,474 8,431
Non-current assets 31,965 21,631
Non-current assets by location excludes amounts relating to other investments, deferred tax assets, derivative financial instruments,
pension assets, amounts receivable under insurance contracts and certain other non-current receivables.GSK Annual Report 2015 153
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
7 Other operating income
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Impairment of equity investments (263) (25) (70)
Disposal of equity investments 342 155 38
Disposal of businesses and assets 9,661 244 1,413
Fair value remeasurements on contingent consideration
recognised in business combinations (1,965) (770) (251)
Remeasurement of Consumer Healthcare put option liability (83) – –
Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments 2 (313) 12
Other income/(expense) 21 9 (18)
7,715 (700) 1,124
Disposal of businesses and assets in 2015 included the disposal of the Oncology business to Novartis for £9,228 million and
£200 million for the divestment of ofatumumab, and in 2014 included the gain on the disposal of Treximet. Fair value remeasurements
on contingent consideration recognised in business combinations comprised £1,874 million related to the acquisition of the former
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and £91 million, net of hedging gains, related to the acquisition of the Vaccines business
from Novartis.
Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments arise from foreign exchange forward contracts and options taken out to
hedge against foreign currency movements when sales and purchases are denominated in foreign currencies (see Note 41, ‘Financial
instruments and related disclosures’). In 2014 this included an unrealised loss of £299 million arising from a number of forward exchange
contracts entered into following announcement of the proposed Novartis transaction to protect the Sterling value of the net US dollar
proceeds due to the Group on completion of the transaction.154 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
8 Operating profit
2015 2014 2013
The following items have been included in operating profit:
£m £m £m
Employee costs (Note 9) 8,030 7,520 7,591
Advertising 1,059 671 808
Distribution costs 376 325 371
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 892 780 732
Impairment of property, plant and equipment, net of reversals 346 18 100
Amortisation of intangible assets 738 704 682
Impairment of intangible assets, net of reversals 217 157 745
Net foreign exchange losses/(gains) 47 (18) 41
Inventories:
Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 7,602 6,334 7,290
Write-down of inventories 488 389 338
Reversal of prior year write-down of inventories (65) (169) (43)
Operating lease rentals:
Minimum lease payments 101 133 127
Contingent rents 8 8 12
Sub-lease payments 7 5 2
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates in relation to the Group (see below) 32.5 33.7 25.7
The reversals of prior year write-downs of inventories principally arise from the reassessment of usage or demand expectations prior
to inventory expiration.
Included within operating profit are major restructuring charges of £1,891 million (2014 – £750 million; 2013 – £517 million), see
Note 10, ‘Major restructuring costs’.
2015 2014 2013
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates:
£m £m £m
Audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 7.1 4.9 5.1
Audit of the company’s subsidiaries 16.1 11.2 11.0
Audit-related assurance services, including attestation under s.404
of Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 4.3 4.0 3.9
Audit and audit-related services 27.5 20.1 20.0
Taxation compliance 0.3 0.6 0.6
Taxation advice 3.2 4.5 3.3
Other assurance services 1.1 8.0 1.5
All other services 0.4 0.5 0.3
32.5 33.7 25.7
In addition to the above, fees paid in respect of the GSK pension schemes were:
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Audit 0.3 0.3 0.4
Other services – – –GSK Annual Report 2015 155
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
9 Employee costs
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 6,132 5,879 6,262
Social security costs 633 639 685
Pension and other post-employment costs, including augmentations (Note 28) 467 403 170
Cost of share-based incentive plans 349 346 319
Severance and other costs from integration and restructuring activities 449 253 155
8,030 7,520 7,591
The Group provides benefits to employees, commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including, in some markets,
healthcare insurance, subsidised car schemes and personal life assurance.
The charge for pension and other post-employment costs in 2013 includes a credit of £279 million following a restructuring of US
post-retirement medical obligations. These are set out in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
The cost of share-based incentive plans is analysed as follows:
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Share Value Plan 307 302 243
Performance Share Plan 26 20 47
Share option plans 4 3 4
Other plans 12 21 25
349 346 319
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year was:
2015 2014 2013
Number Number Number
Manufacturing 37,025 31,726 31,586
Selling, general and administration 52,121 54,618 55,660
Research and development 12,046 12,358 12,571
101,192 98,702 99,817
The average number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. The numbers of Group employees at the end of each
financial year are given in the financial record on page 224. The average number of persons employed by GlaxoSmithKline plc in 2015
was nil (2014 – nil).
The compensation of the Directors and Senior Management (members of the CET) in aggregate, was as follows:
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 23 19 23
Social security costs 2 3 3
Pension and other post-employment costs 3 3 3
Cost of share-based incentive plans 18 13 13
46 38 42156 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
10 Major restructuring costs
Major restructuring costs charged in arriving at operating profit include restructuring costs arising under the Major Change programme
initiated in 2013, under the Pharmaceuticals Restructuring Programme announced in October 2014 and following the Novartis transaction,
completed in 2015.
For 2015, GSK is reporting these programmes together as one combined programme and the total restructuring costs of £1.9 billion
in 2015 were incurred in the following areas:
• Restructuring of the Pharmaceuticals business in North America, Emerging Markets and Europe leading to staff reductions in sales
force and administration.
• Restructuring of the R&D organisation, predominantly in the United Kingdom, North America and Japan.
• Projects to simplify or eliminate processes leading to staff reductions in support functions.
• Transformation of the Manufacturing and Vaccines businesses to deliver a step change in quality, cost and productivity.
• The integration of the Novartis Consumer Healthcare business to the new Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture.
The analysis of the costs charged to operating profit under these programmes is as follows:
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Increase in provision for major restructuring programmes (see Note 29) (718) (267) (179)
Amount of provision reversed unused (see Note 29) 44 4 11
Impairment losses recognised (419) – (60)
Other non-cash charges (51) (15) (5)
Other cash costs (747) (472) (284)
(1,891) (750) (517)
Asset impairments of £419 million (2014 – £nil; 2013 – £60 million) and other non-cash charges totalling £51 million (2014 –
£15 million; 2013 – £5 million) are non-cash items, principally fixed asset write downs in manufacturing and research facilities and
accelerated depreciation where asset lives in R&D have been shortened as a result of the major restructuring programmes. All other
charges have been or will be settled in cash and include the termination of leases, site closure costs, consultancy and project
management fees.
11 Finance income
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Interest income arising from:
cash and cash equivalents 71 56 55
available-for-sale investments 1 1 2
derivatives at fair value through profit or loss 24 – –
loans and receivables 3 9 2
Fair value adjustments on derivatives at fair value through profit or loss 5 2 2
104 68 61
All derivatives at fair value through profit or loss other than designated and effective hedging instruments (see Note 41, ‘Financial
instruments and related disclosures’) are classified as held-for-trading financial instruments under IAS 39.GSK Annual Report 2015 157
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
12 Finance expense
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Interest expense arising on:
financial liabilities at amortised cost (655) (665) (708)
derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (64) (23) (18)
Fair value hedges:
fair value movements on derivatives designated as hedging instruments – 10 (37)
fair value adjustments on hedged items – (5) 36
Fair value movements on other derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (6) (15) (2)
Reclassification of cash flow hedge from other comprehensive income (2) – –
Unwinding of discounts on provisions (16) (15) (14)
Movements on amounts owed to non-controlling interests – – (2)
Other finance expense (14) (14) (22)
(757) (727) (767)
All derivatives at fair value through profit or loss other than designated and effective hedging instruments (see Note 41, ‘Financial
instruments and related disclosures’) are classified as held-for-trading financial instruments under IAS 39. Interest expense arising
on derivatives at fair value through profit or loss relates to swap interest expense.
13 Associates and joint ventures
The Group’s share of after tax profits and losses of associates and joint ventures is set out below:
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Share of after tax profits of associates 16 38 45
Share of after tax losses of joint ventures (2) (8) (2)
14 30 43
At 31 December 2015, the Group held one significant associate, Theravance, Inc. (now Innoviva, Inc.). This investment has been
accounted for as an investment in an associate since 1 September 2015, as described in Note 20 ‘Investments in associates and joint
ventures’. Previously it was included in Other investments. The Group’s share of after tax profits of associates includes a loss of
£8 million in respect of Theravance (now Innoviva).
In March 2015, the Group divested half of its shareholding in Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited and ceased to account for the
remaining investment as an associate. The investment in Aspen is now included in Other investments (Note 21). In 2014 and 2013,
Aspen was the Group’s only significant associate. Summarised income statement information in respect of Aspen is set out below
for the periods in which the Group accounted for its investment in Aspen as an associate. The Group’s 2015 share of after tax
profits of associates and other comprehensive income includes a profit of £10 million and other comprehensive income of £2 million
in respect of Aspen.
To 20 March
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Turnover 441 1,823 1,485
Profit after taxation 67 313 247
Comprehensive income 16 148 192
Total comprehensive income 83 461 439
The results of Aspen included in the summarised income statement information above represent the estimated earnings of the Aspen
group in the relevant periods, adjusted for transactions between GSK and Aspen.
Aggregated financial information in respect of other associated undertakings and joint ventures is set out below:
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Share of turnover 188 187 225
Share of after tax profits/(losses) 12 (9) (2)
Share of other comprehensive income 25 – –
Share of total comprehensive income 37 (9) (2)
The Group’s sales to associates and joint ventures were £41 million in 2015 (£85 million in 2014; £103 million in 2013).
The profit on disposal of interest in associates of £843 million in the year arose on the Group’s divestment of one half of its shareholding in
Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited in March 2015. This included a gain of £457 million resulting from the change in measurement basis
of the Group’s retained investment in Aspen on reclassification of the investment following the divestment. The retained investment was
transferred from Investments in associates, which are equity accounted, to Other investments, which are measured at fair value.158 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
14 Taxation
2015 2014 2013
Taxation charge based on profits for the year
£m £m £m
UK current year charge 156 221 107
Rest of world current year charge 2,924 1,092 1,311
Charge in respect of prior periods (508) (571) 131
Total current taxation 2,572 742 1,549
Total deferred taxation (418) (605) (530)
2,154 137 1,019
In 2015, GSK made payments of £111 million in UK Corporation tax. In January 2016 GSK made further payments of £100 million in relation to
UK Corporation tax. These amounts are for Corporation tax only and do not include the various other business taxes borne by GSK each year.
A significant component of the deferred tax credit for each of 2015 and prior periods arose in respect of the remeasurement of the
contingent consideration in relation to the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. In 2015 the credit also included the unwind of
deferred tax liabilities on the disposal of the Group’s Oncology business to Novartis. In 2014 the credit also included recognition of a
deferred tax asset on capital losses anticipated to be utilised on completion of the Novartis transaction.
The following table reconciles the tax charge calculated at the UK statutory rate on the Group profit before tax with the actual tax charge
for the year.
2015 2015 2014 2014 2013 2013 Reconciliation of taxation on Group profits
£m % £m % £m %
Profit before tax 10,526 2,968 6,647
UK statutory rate of taxation 2,131 20.25 638 21.5 1,545 23.2
Differences in overseas taxation rates 1,035 9.8 406 13.7 196 2.9
Benefit of intellectual property incentives (286) (2.7) (323) (10.9) (189) (2.8)
R&D credits (38) (0.4) (72) (2.4) (88) (1.3)
Inter-company inventory profit (16) (0.1) (27) (0.9) (121) (1.8)
Impact of share-based payments 12 0.1 31 1.0 (2) –
Losses not recognised/(previously unrecognised losses) 31 0.3 (205) (6.9) (18) (0.3)
Permanent differences on disposals and acquisitions (248) (2.4) 23 0.8 (227) (3.4)
Other permanent differences 79 0.8 264 8.9 301 4.5
Re-assessments of prior year estimates (578) (5.5) (617) (20.8) (197) (3.0)
Disposal of associate – – – – (67) (1.0)
Tax on unremitted earnings 32 0.3 19 0.6 20 0.3
Deferred tax and other adjustments on restructuring – – – – (134) (2.0)
Tax charge / tax rate 2,154 20.5 137 4.6 1,019 15.3
GSK has a substantial business presence in many countries around the globe. The impact of differences in overseas taxation rates arose
from profits being earned in countries with tax rates higher than the UK statutory rate, the most significant of which in 2015 were the US,
India, France and Germany. This was partially offset by the increased benefit of intellectual property incentives from the UK Patent Box and
Belgian Patent Income Deduction regimes. Such regimes provide a reduced rate of corporate income tax on profits earned from qualifying
patents. The impact of overseas tax rates was further offset by permanent differences on disposals during 2015 which were subject to the
UK ‘Substantial Shareholdings’ Exemption from tax. In 2014 the anticipated Oncology disposal resulted in the recognition of deferred tax
assets on capital losses subsequently utilised in 2015. The reduction in the benefit provided by R&D credits reflects the change in the UK
regime to record the benefit within the R&D expense in the income statement. Re-assessments of prior year estimates in 2015 include a
benefit of £498 million from the resolution of a number of tax matters in various countries.
Future tax charges , and therefore our effective tax rate, may be affected by factors such as acquisitions, disposals, restructurings, the
location of research and development activity, tax regime reforms and resolution of open matters as we continue to bring our tax affairs up
to date around the world.
2015 2014 2013
Tax on items charged to equity and statement of comprehensive income £m £m £m
Current taxation
Share-based payments 22 55 31
Defined benefit plans 30 – –
52 55 31
Deferred taxation
Share-based payments (12) (59) 42
Defined benefit plans (110) 262 (286)
Exchange movements – (2) –
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (1) 1
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (55) (20) (22)
(177) 180 (265)
Total (charge)/credit to equity and statement of comprehensive income (125) 235 (234)
All of the above items have been charged to the statement of comprehensive income except for tax on share based payments.GSK Annual Report 2015 159
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
14 Taxation continued
Issues relating to taxation
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations involves significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at a
limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets. GSK’s biggest risk with respect
to taxation is that different tax authorities will seek to attribute further profit to activities being undertaken in their jurisdiction potentially
resulting in double taxation. While GSK applies OECD established principles in matching the profit generated by each legal entity to the
risk borne and value being added by each part of the value chain, this is inherently subjective and can be challenged by tax authorities.
This gives rise to complexity and delay in resolving audits with revenue authorities as to the profits on which individual Group companies
are liable to tax. In calculating the tax liability of the Group, GSK applies a risk based approach to determine the transactions most likely
to be subject to challenge and the probability that the Group would be able to obtain compensatory adjustments under international tax
treaties.
There continues to be a significant international focus on tax reform – including the OECD’s “BEPS” project, and European Commission
initiatives such as the proposed ‘Anti-BEPS’ Directive and the increased use of fiscal state aid investigations. Together with domestic
initiatives around the world, these may result in significant changes to established tax principles and an increase in tax authority disputes.
In turn, this could affect adversely our effective tax rate or result in higher cash tax liabilities.
The Group continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from periods which are open and
not yet agreed by tax authorities. The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the
outcome of agreements with relevant tax authorities or litigation where appropriate.
The aggregate amount of unremitted profits at the balance sheet date was approximately £16 billion (2014 – £20 billion). UK legislation
relating to company distributions provides for exemption from tax for most overseas profits, subject to certain exceptions. Provision
for deferred tax liabilities of £180 million (2014 – £147 million) has been made in respect of withholding taxation that would arise on
the distribution of profits by certain overseas subsidiaries. The unremitted profits on which deferred tax has not been provided is
£1.5 billion (2014 – £1.6 billion). Deferred tax on distribution of these profits has not been provided on the grounds that the Group is
able to control the timing of the reversal of the remaining temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in
the foreseeable future.
M ovement in deferred tax assets and liabilities
Pensions & Share Other
Accelerated other post option net
capital Intangible Contingent Intra-group employment Tax and award temporary
allowances assets consideration profit benefits losses schemes differences Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2015 (446) (1,056) 404 684 1,069 415 124 1,049 2,243
Exchange adjustments 16 3 – 26 23 – – 16 84
Credit/(charge) to income statement 102 296 185 63 (31) (324) (20) 147 418
Charge to equity – – – – – – (12) – (12)
Charge to statement of
comprehensive income – – – – (110) – – (56) (166)
Acquisitions and disposals (18) (1,477) 201 52 38 6 – 14 (1,184)
At 31 December 2015 (346) (2,234) 790 825 989 97 92 1,170 1,383
Recognised tax losses comprise £97 million trading losses (2014 – £210 million trading losses, £205 million capital losses).
Other net temporary differences include accrued expenses for which a tax deduction is only available on a paid basis.
Deferred tax assets are recognised in those territories where it is probable that the Group will continue to generate taxable profits in
the future against which those assets can be utilised.
After offsetting deferred tax assets and liabilities where appropriate within territories, the net deferred tax asset comprises:
2015 2014
£m £m
Deferred tax assets 2,905 2,688
Deferred tax liabilities (1,522) (445)
1,383 2,243160 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
14 Taxation continued
2015 2014
Unrecognised tax losses £m £m
Trading losses expiring:
Within 10 years 354 186
More than 10 years 812 723
Available indefinitely 58 –
At 31 December 1,224 909
2015 2014
£m £m
Capital losses 2,771 2,760
At 31 December 2,771 2,760
Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available to utilise losses. The amount of
unrecognised capital losses for 2014 has been revised following a reassessment of available losses for which deferred tax was not
recognised.
15 Earnings per share
2015 2014 2013
pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 174.3 57.3 112.5
Diluted earnings per share 172.3 56.7 110.5
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of
shares in issue during the period after deducting shares held by the ESOP Trusts and Treasury shares. The trustees have waived their
rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
Diluted earnings per share has been calculated after adjusting the weighted average number of shares used in the basic calculation
to assume the conversion of all potentially dilutive shares. A potentially dilutive share forms part of the employee share schemes where
its exercise price is below the average market price of GSK shares during the period and any performance conditions attaching to the
scheme have been met at the balance sheet date.
The numbers of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciled below.
2015 2014 2013 Weighted average number of shares in issue millions millions millions
Basic 4,831 4,808 4,831
Dilution for share options and awards 57 57 88
Diluted 4,888 4,865 4,919
16 Dividends
2015 2014 2013
Dividend Total Dividend Total Dividend Total
per share dividend per share dividend per share dividend
Paid/payable (pence) £m Paid (pence) £m Paid (pence) £m
First interim 9 July 2015 19 920 10 July 2014 19 916 11 July 2013 18 878
Second interim 1 October 2015 19 919 2 October 2014 19 918 3 October 2013 18 864
Third interim 14 January 2016 19 919 8 January 2015 19 924 9 January 2014 19 910
Fourth interim 14 April 2016 23 1,113 9 April 2015 23 1,111 10 April 2014 23 1,099
Total 80 3,871 80 3,869 78 3,751
Special dividend 14 April 2016 20 968
Under IFRS interim dividends are only recognised in the financial statements when paid and not when declared. GSK normally pays a
dividend two quarters after the quarter to which it relates and one quarter after it is declared. The 2015 financial statements recognise
those dividends paid in 2015, namely the third and fourth interim dividends for 2014, and the first and second interim dividends for 2015.
The amounts recognised in each year are as follows:
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Dividends to shareholders 3,874 3,843 3,680GSK Annual Report 2015 161
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
17 Property, plant and equipment
Plant,
Land and equipment Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2014 6,793 9,944 2,116 18,853
Exchange adjustments (85) (122) (42) (249)
Additions 38 252 971 1,261
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 16 16
Disposals and write-offs (62) (322) (3) (387)
Reclassifications 211 454 (677) (12)
Transfer to assets held for sale (91) (36) – (127)
Cost at 31 December 2014 6,804 10,170 2,381 19,355
Exchange adjustments (48) (92) (42) (182)
Additions through business combinations 310 285 103 698
Other additions 95 242 1,099 1,436
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 19 19
Disposals and write-offs (74) (340) (15) (429)
Reclassifications 228 557 (875) (90)
Transfer to assets held for sale (10) (47) – (57)
Cost at 31 December 2015 7,305 10,775 2,670 20,750
Depreciation at 1 January 2014 (2,542) (6,926) – (9,468)
Exchange adjustments 28 70 – 98
Charge for the year (212) (568) – (780)
Disposals and write-offs 27 250 – 277
Transfer to assets held for sale 18 23 – 41
Depreciation at 31 December 2014 (2,681) (7,151) – (9,832)
Exchange adjustments 16 41 – 57
Charge for the year (291) (601) – (892)
Disposals and write-offs 54 275 – 329
Transfer to/(from) assets held for sale (12) 21 – 9
Depreciation at 31 December 2015 (2,914) (7,415) – (10,329)
Impairment at 1 January 2014 (159) (291) (63) (513)
Exchange adjustments – 4 – 4
Disposals and write-offs 30 25 1 56
Impairment losses (34) (45) (15) (94)
Reversal of impairments 47 28 1 76
Impairment at 31 December 2014 (116) (279) (76) (471)
Exchange adjustments (8) 1 1 (6)
Disposals and write-offs 7 16 – 23
Impairment losses (162) (177) (31) (370)
Reversal of impairments 5 19 – 24
Transfer to assets held for sale – 47 – 47
Impairment at 31 December 2015 (274) (373) (106) (753)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2014 (2,797) (7,430) (76) (10,303)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2015 (3,188) (7,788) (106) (11,082)
Net book value at 1 January 2014 4,092 2,727 2,053 8,872
Net book value at 31 December 2014 4,007 2,740 2,305 9,052
Net book value at 31 December 2015 4,117 2,987 2,564 9,668
Following the completion of the Novartis transaction, the Group revised its segmental reporting and allocation of costs and assets.
As part of this process, a review has been conducted to ensure consistent and appropriate classification and reporting across the Group
and its segments which has resulted in a number of classification adjustments within property, plant and equipment. This reclassification
has no impact on the net book value of property, plant and equipment reported at each year-end or the income statement for any year
but, within the stated total for PP&E, has reduced the opening balance of assets in construction at 1 January 2014 by £401 million and
increased the opening balances of land and buildings and plant, equipment and vehicles by £183 million and £218 million, respectively,
with equivalent adjustments to the reclassifications reported in 2014.162 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
17 Property, plant and equipment continued
The net book value at 31 December 2015 of the Group’s land and buildings comprises freehold properties £3,155 million (2014 –
£3,160 million), properties with leases of 50 years or more £327 million (2014 – £336 million) and properties with leases of less
than 50 years £196 million (2014 – £162 million).
Included in land and buildings at 31 December 2015 are leased assets with a cost of £756 million (2014 – £733 million), accumulated
depreciation of £233 million (2014 – £226 million), impairment of £nil (2014 – £9 million) and a net book value of £523 million
(2014 – £498 million). Included in plant, equipment and vehicles at 31 December 2015 are leased assets with a cost of £31 million
(2014 – £68 million), accumulated depreciation of £27 million (2014 – £17 million), impairment of £nil (2014 – £2 million) and
a net book value of £4 million (2014 – £49 million). Some lease agreements include renewal or purchase options or escalation clauses.
The impairment losses principally arise from decisions to rationalise facilities and are calculated based on either fair value less costs
of disposal or value in use. The fair value less costs of disposal valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on
observable market data, and therefore this valuation technique is classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. These calculations
determine the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, post-tax cash flows of the relevant asset or cash generating unit, applying
a discount rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of 7%, adjusted where appropriate for relevant
specific risks. For value in use calculations, where an impairment is indicated and a pre-tax cash flow calculation is expected to give a
materially different result, the test would be reperformed using pre-tax cash flows and a pre-tax discount rate. The Group WACC is
equivalent to a pre-tax discount rate of approximately 9%. The net impairment losses have been charged to cost of sales £109 million
(2014 – £36 million), R&D £63 million (2014 – £11 million) and SG&A £174 million (2014 – £47 million), and include £327 million
(2014 – £nil) arising from the major restructuring programmes.
Reversals of impairment arise from subsequent reviews of the impaired assets where the conditions which gave rise to the original
impairments are deemed no longer to apply. All of the reversals have been credited to cost of sales.
The carrying value at 31 December 2015 of assets for which impairments have been charged or reversed in the year was £138 million
(2014 – £225 million).
18 Goodwill
2015 2014
£m £m
Cost at 1 January 3,724 4,205
Exchange adjustments 66 34
Additions through business combinations (Note 38) 1,372 –
Transfer to assets held for sale – (511)
Movements in contingent consideration balances – (4)
Cost at 31 December 5,162 3,724
Net book value at 1 January 3,724 4,205
Net book value at 31 December 5,162 3,724
During 2015, GSK divested to Novartis its marketed Oncology portfolio, acquired Novartis’ Vaccines business (excluding influenza
vaccines) and created the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture with Novartis over which GSK has control with an equity interest
of 63.5%.
The acquisitions resulted in the recognition of additional goodwill which was allocated to Vaccines (£576 million) and Consumer
Healthcare (£774 million). The disposal of the Oncology business resulted in a transfer of goodwill to assets held for sale in 2014 and
a reduction in goodwill in Global Pharmaceuticals of £497 million. This disposal was completed in 2015.
The carrying value of goodwill, translated at year-end exchange rates, is allocated to the following cash generating units:
2015 2014
£m £m
Global Pharmaceuticals 2,826 2,774
HIV 126 124
Vaccines 1,003 487
Consumer Healthcare 1,207 339
Net book value at 31 December 5,162 3,724
The goodwill balance at 31 December 2014 has been reallocated to reflect the revised cash generating units for 2015.GSK Annual Report 2015 163
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
.
18 Goodwill continued
The recoverable amounts of the cash generating units are assessed using a fair value less costs of disposal model. Fair value less costs
of disposal is calculated using a discounted cash flow approach, with a post-tax discount rate applied to the projected risk-adjusted
post-tax cash flows and terminal value.
The discount rate used is based on the Group WACC of 7%, as most cash generating units have integrated operations across large
parts of the Group. The discount rate is adjusted where appropriate for specific country or currency risks. The valuation methodology
uses significant inputs which are not based on observable market data, therefore this valuation technique is classified as level 3 in the fair
value hierarchy.
Details relating to the discounted cash flow models used in the impairment tests of the Global Pharmaceuticals, HIV, Vaccines and
Consumer Healthcare cash generating units are as follows:
Valuation basis Fair value less costs of disposal
Key assumptions Sales growth rates
Profit margins
Terminal growth rate
Discount rate
Taxation rate
Determination of assumptions Growth rates are internal forecasts based on both internal and external market information.
Margins reflect past experience, adjusted for expected changes.
Terminal growth rates based on management’s estimate of future long-term average growth rates.
Discount rates based on Group WACC, adjusted where appropriate.
Taxation rates based on appropriate rates for each region.
Period of specific projected cash flows Five years
Terminal growth rate and discount rate Terminal growth rate Discount rate
Global Pharmaceuticals 1% p.a. 7%
HIV 1% p.a. 8.5%
Vaccines 2% p.a. 7%
Consumer Healthcare 2% p.a. 7%
The terminal growth rates do not exceed the long-term projected growth rates for the relevant markets, reflect the impact of future
generic competition and take account of new product launches.
In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result
in an impairment of the related goodwill. Goodwill is monitored at the segmental level.
The Global Pharmaceuticals cash generating unit comprises a collection of smaller cash generating units including assets with indefinite lives
with a carrying value of £240 million (2014 – £595 million). The Consumer Healthcare cash generating unit also comprises a collection of
smaller cash generating units including brands with indefinite lives with a carrying value of £7.71 billion (2014 – £1.48 billion).
Details of indefinite life brands are given in Note 19 ‘Other intangible assets’.164 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
19 Other intangible assets
Computer Licences, Amortised Indefinite life
software patents, etc. brands brands Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2014 1,631 10,472 419 2,191 14,713
Exchange adjustments 11 52 3 (6) 60
Capitalised development costs – 242 – – 242
Capitalised borrowing costs 6 3 – – 9
Other additions 179 108 – – 287
Reclassifications 12 – – – 12
Disposals and asset write-offs (21) (9) – – (30)
Transfer to assets held for sale – (587) – (30) (617)
Cost at 31 December 2014 1,818 10,281 422 2,155 14,676
Exchange adjustments 32 74 3 (14) 95
Capitalised development costs – 217 – – 217
Capitalised borrowing costs 7 – – – 7
Additions through business combinations – 2,791 – 5,997 8,788
Other additions 174 132 – – 306
Reclassifications 90 – – – 90
Disposals and asset write-offs (91) (98) – – (189)
Transfer to assets held for sale (2) (3) (38) (64) (107)
Cost at 31 December 2015 2,028 13,394 387 8,074 23,883
Amortisation at 1 January 2014 (1,102) (2,857) (123) – (4,082)
Exchange adjustments (13) (63) – – (76)
Charge for the year (115) (578) (11) – (704)
Disposals and asset write-offs 17 6 – – 23
Amortisation at 31 December 2014 (1,213) (3,492) (134) – (4,839)
Exchange adjustments (15) (34) (1) – (50)
Charge for the year (140) (596) (2) – (738)
Disposals and asset write-offs 73 92 – – 165
Transfer to assets held for sale 1 – 4 – 5
Amortisation at 31 December 2015 (1,294) (4,030) (133) – (5,457)
Impairment at 1 January 2014 (41) (1,090) (140) (77) (1,348)
Exchange adjustments 2 (18) – – (16)
Impairment losses (7) (131) (14) (5) (157)
Disposals and asset write-offs 4 – – – 4
Impairment at 31 December 2014 (42) (1,239) (154) (82) (1,517)
Exchange adjustments 1 (58) – – (57)
Impairment losses (14) (148) (15) (40) (217)
Disposals and asset write-offs 16 6 – – 22
Transfer to assets held for sale – – 15 – 15
Impairment at 31 December 2015 (39) (1,439) (154) (122) (1,754)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2014 (1,255) (4,731) (288) (82) (6,356)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2015 (1,333) (5,469) (287) (122) (7,211)
Net book value at 1 January 2014 488 6,525 156 2,114 9,283
Net book value at 31 December 2014 563 5,550 134 2,073 8,320
Net book value at 31 December 2015 695 7,925 100 7,952 16,672
The net book value of computer software includes £407 million (2014 – £82 million) of internally generated costs.
The charge for impairments in the year includes the impairments of the MAGE-A3 asset and Maxinutrition. The carrying value at
31 December 2015 of intangible assets, for which impairments have been charged or reversed in the year, following those impairments
or reversals, was £308 million (2014 – £121 million).GSK Annual Report 2015 165
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
19 Other intangible assets continued
Amortisation and impairment losses, net of reversals, have been charged in the income statement as follows:
Amortisation Net impairment losses
2015 2014 2015 2014
£m £m £m £m
Cost of sales 532 503 143 78
Selling, general and administration 66 86 22 7
Research and development 140 115 52 72
738 704 217 157
Licences, patents, etc. includes a large number of acquired licences, patents, know-how agreements and marketing rights, which are
either marketed or in use, or still in development. Note 38, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’ gives details of additions through business
combinations in the year. The book values of the largest individual items are as follows:
2015 2014
£m £m
dolutegravir 1,585 1,680
Benlysta 1,083 1,104
Menveo 833 –
Bexsero 819 –
Men ABCWY 591 –
Fluarix/FluLaval 333 415
Selzentry 208 223
Okairos technology platform 167 177
Others 2,306 1,951
7,925 5,550
Indefinite life brands comprise a portfolio of Consumer Healthcare products primarily acquired with the acquisitions of Sterling
Winthrop, Inc. in 1994, Block Drug Company, Inc. in 2001, CNS, Inc. in 2006 and the Novartis Consumer Healthcare business in
2015, together with a number of pharmaceutical brands from the acquisition of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. in 2009. The book values
of the major brands are as follows:
2015 2014
£m £m
Voltaren 2,411 –
Otrivin 1,225 –
Fenistil 576 –
Theraflu 391 –
Panadol 361 393
Sensodyne 258 260
Lamisil 257 –
Breathe Right 217 204
Stiefel trade name 201 200
Excedrin 164 –
Physiogel 147 155
Polident 109 110
Others 1,635 751
7,952 2,073
Each of these brands is considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of the brand and the level of marketing
support. The brands are in relatively similar stable and profitable market sectors, with similar risk profiles, and their size, diversification
and market shares mean that the risk of market-related factors causing a reduction in the lives of the brands is considered to be relatively
low. The Group is not aware of any material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factor which could limit their
useful lives. Accordingly, they are not amortised.
Each brand is tested annually for impairment and other amortised intangible assets are tested when indicators of impairment arise.
This testing applies a fair value less costs of disposal methodology, generally using post-tax cash flow forecasts with a terminal value
calculation and a discount rate equal to the Group post-tax WACC of 7%, adjusted where appropriate for country and currency specific
risks. This valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable market data, and therefore this valuation
technique is classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The main assumptions include future sales price and volume growth, product
contribution and the future expenditure required to maintain the product’s marketability and registration in the relevant jurisdictions.
These assumptions are based on past experience and are reviewed as part of management’s budgeting and strategic planning cycle
for changes in market conditions and sales erosion through competition. The terminal growth rates applied of between nil and 3% are
management’s estimates of future long-term average growth rates of the relevant markets. In each case the valuations indicate sufficient
headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in an impairment of these intangible assets.166 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
20 Investments in associates and joint ventures
Joint 2015 Joint 2014
ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 8 332 340 15 308 323
Exchange adjustments 1 2 3 (1) (18) (19)
Additions 13 10 23 2 7 9
Disposals – (143) (143) – (1) (1)
Transfer from/(to) other investments – 146 146 – (13) (13)
Distributions received – (38) (38) – (5) (5)
Other movements – (165) (165) – 16 16
Profit/(loss) after tax recognised in the consolidated
income statement (2) 16 14 (8) 38 30
Other comprehensive income recognised in the
consolidated statement of comprehensive income – 27 27 – – –
At 31 December 20 187 207 8 332 340
The Group held one significant associate at 31 December 2015, Theravance, Inc., which changed its name to Innoviva, Inc. on 8 January
2016. At 31 December 2015, the Group owned 32 million shares or 27.8% of Theravance Inc. (now Innoviva Inc.), which is a
biopharmaceutical company listed on NASDAQ. The company partnered with GSK in the development of Relvar/Breo Ellipta and Anoro
Ellipta and receives royalty income from sales of these products. It is also eligible to receive royalty income from sales of vilanterol
monotherapy, if approved and commercialised, and retains a 15% economic interest in future payments made by GSK for earlier-stage
programmes partnered with Theravance Biopharma, Inc. GSK recognised Theravance as an associate on 1 September 2015, following
the expiry of a governance agreement related to the Group’s investment in the company. Under the terms of that governance agreement,
the Group was required (with certain limited exceptions) to vote its shares either in support of the recommendation of the independent
directors of the board or in proportion to other shareholders’ votes cast. The expiry of the governance agreement and removal of this
voting rights’ restriction was considered to provide the Group with the ability to exert significant influence over the activities of the
company. The investment had a market value of £229 million at 31 December 2015. Other movements primarily reflect the recognition
of GSK’s share of Theravance’s past losses on the transfer of Theravance to investments in associates.
At 31 December 2014, the Group’s only significant investment in associate was its holding of 12.4% in Aspen Pharmacare Holdings
Limited. In March 2015, the Group sold half of its holding in Aspen. As a result, the Group no longer has the ability to exert significant
influence over Aspen, and the Group’s remaining investment in Aspen is accounted for in Other investments.
Summarised balance sheet information, based on preliminary results information, in respect of Theravance (now Innoviva) at
31 December 2015 and Aspen at 31 December 2014 is set out below:
Theravance Aspen
At 31 December At 31 December
2015 2014
£m £m
Non-current assets 143 2,336
Current assets 146 1,791
Current liabilities (9) (909)
Non-current liabilities (513) (1,955)
Net (liabilities)/assets (233) 1,263
2015 2014
£m £m
Interest in associated undertaking (65) 157
Goodwill 64 117
Fair value and other adjustments 113 –
Carrying value at 31 December 112 274GSK Annual Report 2015 167
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
21 Other investments
2015 2014
£m £m
At 1 January 1,114 1,202
Exchange adjustments 38 63
Additions 120 95
Fair value gain on reclassification from investment in associate 457 –
Other net fair value movements 323 (16)
Impairment losses (258) (25)
Transfer to investments in associates and joint ventures (146) –
Disposals (393) (205)
At 31 December 1,255 1,114
Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are available-for-sale investments recorded at fair value at each
balance sheet date. For investments traded in an active market, the fair value is determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange
quoted bid price. For other investments, the fair value is estimated by management with reference to relevant available information,
including the current market value of similar instruments and discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets. The Group holds a
number of equity investments in entities where the Group has entered into research collaborations. Other investments include listed
investments of £987 million (2014 – £892 million), the increase arising from additions, fair value adjustments and the transfer of the
Group’s investment in Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited from Investments in associates to Other investments, offset by the transfer
of the Group’s investment in Theravance, Inc. to Investments in associates and disposals and impairments, principally relating to Aspen.
At 31 December 2015, the Group held 22.1% of the common stock of Theravance Biopharma, Inc. The Group’s investment in
Theravance Biopharma is accounted for as an equity investment as the Group does not have the power to exert significant influence over
the activities of the company. In 2014, the Group and Theravance Biopharma entered into a governance agreement which expires in
2017. Under this agreement, the Group does not have the right to appoint a director to the Theravance Biopharma board and must (with
certain limited exceptions) vote its shares either in support of the recommendation of the independent directors of the board or in
proportion to other shareholders’ votes cast.
On 1 September 2015, a similar governance agreement with another investee, Theravance, Inc. (now Innoviva, Inc.) expired. The expiry
of this agreement was considered to provide the Group with the ability to exert significant influence over the activities of the company
and the Group has therefore accounted for its shareholding as an investment in an associate since that date.
In March 2015, the Group sold half of its shareholding in Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited, an investment which it had previously
accounted for as an associate. As a result of the sale, the Group was no longer considered to have the ability to exert significant
influence over Aspen and the Group’s remaining investment was transferred from Investments in associates to Other investments.
At 31 December 2015, this investment had a fair value of £383 million.
On disposal of investments, fair value movements are reclassified from equity to the income statement based on average cost for
shares acquired at different times.
The impairment losses recorded above have been recognised in the income statement for the year within Other operating income,
together with amounts reclassified from the fair value reserve on recognition of the impairments. These impairments initially result
from prolonged or significant declines in the fair value of the equity investments below acquisition cost, subsequent to which any
further declines in fair value are immediately taken to the income statement.
The carrying value at 31 December of Other investments which have been impaired is as follows:
2015 2014
£m £m
Original cost 1,049 558
Cumulative impairments recognised in the income statement (549) (420)
Subsequent fair value increases 279 268
Carrying value at 31 December 779 406
22 Other non-current assets
2015 2014
£m £m
Amounts receivable under insurance contracts 477 447
Pension schemes in surplus 258 93
Other receivables 255 195
990 735168 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
23 Inventories
2015 2014
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 1,563 1,156
Work in progress 1,453 1,604
Finished goods 1,700 1,471
4,716 4,231
24 Trade and other receivables
2015 2014
£m £m
Trade receivables, net of provision for bad and doubtful debts 3,824 3,556
Accrued income 55 37
Other prepayments 307 252
Interest receivable 9 9
Employee loans and advances 36 28
Other receivables 1,384 718
5,615 4,600
Trade receivables included £8 million (2014 – £28 million) due from associates and joint ventures. Other receivables included £nil
(2014– £8 million) due from associates and joint ventures. The increase in other receivables primarily arises from the Novartis
transaction.
2015 2014
Bad and doubtful debt provision
£m £m
At 1 January 142 137
Exchange adjustments (2) (3)
Charge for the year 45 22
Subsequent recoveries of amounts provided for (17) (13)
Utilised (1) (1)
At 31 December 167 142
25 Cash and cash equivalents
2015 2014
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 1,114 1,313
Short-term deposits 4,716 3,025
5,830 4,338
26 Assets held for sale
2015 2014
£m £m
Property, plant and equipment 32 60
Goodwill – 511
Other intangibles 5 543
Inventory 15 42
Other (6) –
46 1,156
Non-current assets and disposal groups are transferred to assets held for sale when it is expected that their carrying amounts will be
recovered principally through disposal and a sale is considered highly probable. They are held at the lower of carrying amount and fair
value less costs to sell.
Included within Assets held for sale are assets which were written down to fair value less costs to sell of £36 million (2014 – £26 million).
The valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable market data, therefore, this valuation is classified as
level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.GSK Annual Report 2015 169
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
27 Trade and other payables
2015 2014
£m £m
Trade payables 3,120 2,790
Wages and salaries 1,069 957
Social security 118 91
Other payables 368 301
Deferred income 73 62
Customer return and rebate accruals 2,056 1,774
Contingent consideration 306 105
Other accruals 2,081 1,878
9,191 7,958
Customer return and rebate accruals are provided for by the Group at the point of sale in respect of the estimated rebates, discounts
or allowances payable to customers, including £1,464 million (2014 – £1,308 million) in respect of US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines.
Accruals are made at the time of sale but the actual amounts paid are based on claims made some time after the initial recognition of
the sale. As the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the final outcome and are subject to change dependent upon, amongst
other things, the types of buying group and product sales mix. The level of accrual is reviewed and adjusted quarterly in the light of
historical experience of actual rebates, discounts or allowances given and returns made and any changes in arrangements. Future
events could cause the assumptions on which the accruals are based to change, which could affect the future results of the Group.
Trade and other payables include £17 million (2014 – £9 million) due to associates and joint ventures.
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits
2015 2014 2013
Pension and other post-employment costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 177 125 139
US pension schemes 96 85 95
Other overseas pension schemes 135 123 111
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 59 70 (175)
467 403 170
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid pension schemes 345 267 283
Unfunded defined benefit pension schemes 36 34 30
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 59 70 (175)
Defined benefit schemes 440 371 138
Defined contribution pension schemes 27 32 32
467 403 170
The net reduction in the post-retirement healthcare schemes cost in 2013 arises from the restructuring of US post-retirement medical
obligations. For further details see page 171.
The costs of the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes are charged in the income statement as follows:
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Cost of sales 143 117 104
Selling, general and administration 225 194 27
Research and development 72 60 7
440 371 138
GSK entities operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees. These
arrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be provided by
state schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds arising from contributions
paid in respect of each employee; or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based on employee pensionable
remuneration and length of service. Some ‘hybrid’ defined benefit schemes also include defined contribution sections.170 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Pension costs of defined benefit schemes for accounting purposes have been calculated using the projected unit method. In certain
countries pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some administered by trustee companies. Formal, independent, actuarial
valuations of the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally at least every three years.
Actuarial movements in the year are recognised through the statement of comprehensive income. Discount rates are derived from AA
rated corporate bond yields except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate bonds where government bond yields are
used. Discount rates are selected to reflect the term of the expected benefit payments. Projected inflation rate and pension increases
are long-term predictions based on the yield gap between long-term index-linked and fixed interest Gilts. In the UK, mortality rates are
determined by adjusting the SAPS S2 standard mortality tables to reflect recent scheme experience. These rates are then projected to
reflect improvements in life expectancy in line with the CMI projections with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per year for both
males and females. In the US, mortality rates are calculated using the RP2014 white collar table adjusted to reflect recent experience.
These rates are projected using scale BB-2D to allow for future improvements in life expectancy.
The average life expectancy assumed now for an individual at the age of 60 and projected to apply in 2035 for an individual then at the
age of 60 is as follows:
UK US
Male Female Male Female
Years Years Years Years
Current 27.8 29.9 27.1 28.8
Projected for 2035 29.7 32.0 28.8 30.5
The assets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts, either as specific assets or as a proportion of a
general fund, or are insurance contracts. Assets are invested in different classes in order to maintain a balance between risk and return.
Investments are diversified to limit the financial effect of the failure of any individual investment. The Group reviewed the investment
strategy of the UK plans in 2011 and the asset allocation for the UK plans has been adjusted to approximately 55% return seeking assets
and 45% liability matching assets. In 2013, the target asset allocation of the US plans was also updated to 55% return seeking assets
and 45% liability matching assets.
The Pension Plans are exposed to risk that arises because the estimated market value of the Plans’ assets might decline, the investment
returns might reduce, or the estimated value of the Plans’ liabilities might increase.
In line with the agreed mix of return seeking assets to generate future returns and liability matching assets to better match future pension
obligations, the Group has defined an overall long-term investment strategy for the Plans, with investments across a broad range of
assets. The main market risks within the asset and hedging portfolio are against credit risk, interest rates, long-term inflation, equities,
property, and bank counterparty risk.
The Plan liabilities are a series of future cash flows with relatively long duration. On an IAS 19R basis, these cash flows are sensitive to
changes in the expected long-term inflation rate and the discount rate (AA corporate bond yield curve) where an increase in long-term
inflation corresponds with an increase in the liabilities, and an increase in the discount rate corresponds with a decrease in the liabilities.
In the UK the defined benefit pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former SmithKline
Beecham employees remain separate. These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and subsequent UK employees are entitled
to join a defined contribution scheme. In the US the former Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham defined benefit schemes were
merged during 2001. In addition, the Group operates a number of post-retirement healthcare schemes, the principal one of which is in
the US.
The Group has applied the following financial assumptions in assessing the defined benefit liabilities:
UK US Rest of World
2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013
% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 2.00 2.00 2.00 4.00 4.00 4.00 2.70 2.60 2.80
Discount rate 3.80 3.60 4.50 4.20 3.80 4.60 2.20 2.00 3.40
Expected pension increases 3.10 3.00 3.40 n/a n/a n/a 2.00 2.00 2.10
Cash balance credit/conversion rate n/a n/a n/a 3.20 3.00 4.20 0.60 0.50 0.90
Inflation rate 3.10 3.00 3.40 2.25 2.25 2.25 1.40 1.40 1.80GSK Annual Report 2015 171
Strategic
report
Governance
& remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The amounts recorded in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the three years ended 31 December 2015
in relation to the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes were as follows:
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2015 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 131 67 110 308 22
Past service cost/(credit) 25 2 (10) 17 (8)
Net interest cost 14 22 13 49 52
Gains from settlements – 1 (9) (8) (7)
Expenses 7 4 4 15 –
177 96 108 381 59
Remeasurements recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income 82 (30) 147 199 62
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2014 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 119 66 90 275 24
Past service cost/(credit) 7 1 (11) (3) (8)
Net interest (credit)/cost (7) 14 14 21 54
Gains from settlements – – (4) (4) –
Expenses 6 4 2 12 –
125 85 91 301 70
Remeasurements recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income (629) (223) (244) (1,096) (85)
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2013 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 117 74 89 280 37
Past service cost/(credit) 4 – (31) (27) (273)
Net interest cost 12 17 17 46 61
Expenses 6 4 4 14 –
139 95 79 313 (175)
Remeasurements recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income 349 257 74 680 167
The past service credit of £273 million in 2013 includes an amount of £279 million in relation to the restructuring of the US post-retirement
medical obligations for both active and retired members under the age of 65.
The amounts included within past service costs include £25 million (2014 – £7 million; 2013 – £nil) of augmentation costs arising from
major restructuring programmes (see Note 29, ‘Other provisions’).172 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
A summarised balance sheet presentation of the Group defined benefit pension schemes and other post-retirement benefits is set out in the
table below:
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Recognised in Other non-current assets:
Pension schemes in surplus 258 93 330
Recognised in Pensions and other post-employment benefits:
Pension schemes in deficit (1,842) (1,782) (943)
Post-retirement benefits (1,387) (1,397) (1,246)
(3,229) (3,179) (2,189)
The fair values of the assets and liabilities of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes, together with aggregated data for other
defined benefit pension schemes in the Group are as follows:
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2015 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 6,646 1,235 355 8,236
– unlisted 481 – 1 482
Property: – unlisted 302 175 8 485
Corporate bonds: – listed 251 727 76 1,054
– unlisted 232 – 2 234
Government bonds: – listed 5,780 184 664 6,628
Insurance contracts 755 – 439 1,194
Other assets (2,572) 180 205 (2,187)
Fair value of assets 11,875 2,501 1,750 16,126
Present value of scheme obligations (12,192) (3,134) (2,384) (17,710)
Net obligation (317) (633) (634) (1,584)
Included in Other non-current assets 232 – 26 258
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (549) (633) (660) (1,842)
(317) (633) (634) (1,584)
Actual return on plan assets 1 (30) 23 (6)
The index-linked gilts held as part of the UK repo programme are included in government bonds. The related loan is included within
‘Other assets’ at a value of £2,215 million (2014 – £(537) m illion; 2013 – £(407) million).
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2014 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 6,734 1,203 325 8,262
– unlisted 247 – 9 256
Property: – unlisted 256 146 4 406
Corporate bonds: – listed 1,403 921 97 2,421
– unlisted 247 – 25 272
Government bonds: – listed 2,489 152 603 3,244
Insurance contracts 803 – 378 1,181
Other assets (127) 109 88 70
Fair value of assets 12,052 2,531 1,529 16,112
Present value of scheme obligations (12,492) (3,133) (2,176) (17,801)
Net obligation (440) (602) (647) (1,689)
Included in Other non-current assets 72 – 21 93
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (512) (602) (668) (1,782)
(440) (602) (647) (1,689)
Actual return on plan assets 977 99 181 1,257GSK Annual Report 2015 173
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2013
£m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 6,474 1,202 422 8,098
– unlisted – – 9 9
Property: – unlisted 254 131 5 390
Corporate bonds: – listed 1,484 531 57 2,072
– unlisted – – 20 20
Government bonds: – listed 2,376 320 517 3,213
Insurance contracts 775 – 366 1,141
Other assets (119) 330 71 282
Fair value of assets 11,244 2,514 1,467 15,225
Present value of scheme obligations (11,132) (2,793) (1,913) (15,838)
Net asset/(obligation) 112 (279) (446) (613)
Included in Other non-current assets 292 – 38 330
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (180) (279) (484) (943)
112 (279) (446) (613)
Actual return on plan assets 1,383 218 98 1,699
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
Movements in fair values of assets £m £m £m £m £m
Assets at 1 January 2013 9,981 2,521 1,377 13,879 –
Exchange adjustments – (49) (45) (94) –
Interest income 385 96 45 526 –
Expenses (6) (4) (4) (14) –
Remeasurement 998 122 53 1,173 –
Employer contributions 219 20 104 343 76
Scheme participants’ contributions 26 – 10 36 15
Benefits paid (359) (192) (73) (624) (91)
Assets at 31 December 2013 11,244 2,514 1,467 15,225 –
Exchange adjustments – 154 (101) 53 –
Interest income 437 112 47 596 –
Expenses (6) (4) (2) (12) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (65) (65) –
Remeasurement 540 (13) 134 661 –
Employer contributions 202 19 102 323 70
Scheme participants’ contributions 34 – 10 44 10
Benefits paid (399) (251) (63) (713) (80)
Assets at 31 December 2014 12,052 2,531 1,529 16,112 –
Exchange adjustments – 147 (52) 95 –
Additions through business combinations – – 233 233 –
Interest income 374 95 33 502 –
Expenses (7) (4) (4) (15) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (16) (16) –
Remeasurement (373) (125) (10) (508) –
Employer contributions 218 132 112 462 82
Scheme participants’ contributions 37 – 14 51 14
Benefits paid (426) (275) (89) (790) (96)
Assets at 31 December 2015 11,875 2,501 1,750 16,126 –
The UK defined benefit schemes include defined contribution sections with account balances totalling £1,591 million at 31 December
2015 (2014 – £1,501 million; 2013 – £1,366 million).
During 2015, the Group made special funding contributions to the UK pension schemes totalling £85 million (2014 – £85 million;
2013 – £93 million) and £111 million (2014 – £nil; 2013 – £nil) to the US scheme. In 2013, GSK reached an agreement with the
trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the pension deficit identified at the 31 December
2011 actuarial funding valuation. Based on the funding agreements following the 2011 valuation, the additional contributions are
expected to be £85 million in 2016. The contributions were based on a government bond yield curve approach to selecting the
discount rate; the rate chosen included an allowance for expected investment returns which reflected the asset mix of the schemes.
Employer contributions for 2016, including special funding contributions, are estimated to be approximately £540 million in respect of
defined benefit pension schemes and £80 million in respect of post-retirement benefits.174 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
Movements in defined benefit obligations
£m £m £m £m £m
Obligations at 1 January 2013 (10,298) (2,979) (1,914) (15,191) (1,685)
Exchange adjustments – 46 37 83 9
Service cost (117) (74) (89) (280) (37)
Past service cost (4) – 31 27 273
Interest cost (397) (113) (62) (572) (61)
Other movements – – – – 12
Remeasurement (649) 135 21 (493) 167
Scheme participants’ contributions (26) – (10) (36) (15)
Benefits paid 359 192 73 624 91
Obligations at 31 December 2013 (11,132) (2,793) (1,913) (15,838) (1,246)
Exchange adjustments – (188) 139 (49) (68)
Service cost (119) (66) (90) (275) (24)
Past service cost (7) (1) 11 3 8
Interest cost (430) (126) (61) (617) (54)
Settlements and curtailments – – 69 69 –
Other movements – – (6) (6) 2
Remeasurement (1,169) (210) (378) (1,757) (85)
Scheme participants’ contributions (34) – (10) (44) (10)
Benefits paid 399 251 63 713 80
Obligations at 31 December 2014 (12,492) (3,133) (2,176) (17,801) (1,397)
Exchange adjustments – (184) 78 (106) (64)
Additions through business combinations – – (397) (397) (11)
Service cost (131) (67) (110) (308) (22)
Past service cost (25) (2) 10 (17) 8
Interest cost (388) (117) (46) (551) (52)
Settlements and curtailments – (1) 25 24 7
Remeasurement 455 95 157 707 62
Scheme participants’ contributions (37) – (14) (51) (14)
Benefits paid 426 275 89 790 96
Obligations at 31 December 2015 (12,192) (3,134) (2,384) (17,710) (1,387)
The UK defined benefit schemes include defined contribution sections with obligations totalling £1,591 million at 31 December 2015
(2014 – £1,501 million; 2013 – £1,366 million).
The defined benefit pension obligation is analysed as follows:
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Funded (17,143) (17,350) (15,432)
Unfunded (567) (451) (406)
(17,710) (17,801) (15,838)
The liability for the US post-retirement healthcare scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension
scheme, together with the assumption for future medical inflation of 6.5% (2014 – 6.75%), grading down to 5.0% in 2022 and
thereafter. At 31 December 2015, the US post-retirement healthcare scheme obligation was £1,208 million (2014 – £1,191 million;
2013 – £1,066 million). Post-retirement benefits are unfunded.GSK Annual Report 2015 175
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The movement in the net defined benefit liability is as follows:
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
At 1 January (1,689) (613) (1,312)
Exchange adjustments (11) 4 (11)
Additions through business combinations (164) – –
Service cost (308) (275) (280)
Past service cost (17) 3 27
Interest income/(cost) (49) (21) (46)
Settlements and curtailments 8 4 –
Remeasurements:
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest (508) 661 1,173
Gain/(loss) from change in demographic assumptions 120 (64) (89)
Gain/(loss) from change in financial assumptions 362 (1,578) (118)
Experience losses 225 (115) (286)
Employer contributions 462 323 343
Expenses/other movements (15) (18) (14)
At 31 December (1,584) (1,689) (613)
The remeasurements included within post-retirement benefits are detailed below:
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Gain/(loss) from change in demographic assumptions 15 10 (1)
Gain/(loss) from change in financial assumptions 59 (120) 143
Experience (losses)/gains (12) 25 25
62 (85) 167176 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The defined benefit pension obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Active 5,510 5,422 5,053
Retired 7,969 7,967 7,137
Deferred 4,231 4,412 3,648
17,710 17,801 15,838
The post-retirement benefit obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Active 499 590 545
Retired 887 805 699
Deferred 1 2 2
1,387 1,397 1,246
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is as follows:
2015 2014 2013
years years years
Pension benefits 16 16 16
Post-retirement benefits 12 12 12
Sensitivity analysis
Effect of changes in assumptions used on the benefit obligations and on the 2016 annual defined benefit pension and post retirement
costs.
£m
A 0.25% decrease in discount rate would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 24
Decrease in annual post-retirement benefits cost (1)
Increase in pension obligation 630
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 40
A one year increase in life expectancy would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 20
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 2
Increase in pension obligation 444
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 36
A 1% increase in the rate of future healthcare inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 3
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 64
A 0.25% increase in inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 19
Increase in pension obligation 375GSK Annual Report 2015 177
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
29 Other provisions
Legal Major Employee
and other restructuring related Other
disputes programmes provisions provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2015 520 527 252 291 1,590
Exchange adjustments 28 15 3 5 51
Charge for the year 257 718 60 87 1,122
Reversed unused (32) (44) – (32) (108)
Unwinding of discount – 5 – 11 16
Utilised (428) (382) (39) (47) (896)
Reclassifications and other movements 7 2 (1) 6 14
Transfer to Pension obligations – (25) – – (25)
At 31 December 2015 352 816 275 321 1,764
To be settled within one year 319 692 133 200 1,344
To be settled after one year 33 124 142 121 420
At 31 December 2015 352 816 275 321 1,764
Legal and other disputes Major restructuring programmes
The Group is involved in a substantial number of legal and other In 2013, the Group initiated the Major Change restructuring
disputes, including notification of possible claims, as set out in programme focused on opportunities to simplify supply chain
Note 45 ‘Legal proceedings’. Provisions for legal and other processes, build the Group’s capabilities in manufacturing and
disputes include amounts relating to product liability, anti-trust, R&D and restructure the European Pharmaceuticals business.
government investigations (principally relating to the SEC/DOJ
The Pharmaceuticals restructuring programme, announced in
and SFO related investigations), contract terminations, self
October 2014, will rescale commercial operations, global support
insurance and environmental clean-up.
functions and the relevant R&D/manufacturing operations across
The charge for the year of £257 million (£225 million net of Pharmaceuticals. In addition, an integration restructuring programme
reversals and estimated insurance recoveries) primarily related to was initiated in 2015, following the completion of the Novartis
provisions for product liability cases regarding Paxil and other transaction. All of these restructuring and integration programmes
products, commercial disputes and various other government are now reported together as one combined major restructuring
investigations. programme.
The discount on the provisions decreased by £1 million in 2015 Provisions for staff severance payments are made when
(2014 – £nil) and was calculated using risk-adjusted projected management has made a formal decision to eliminate certain
cash flows and risk-free rates of return. The movement in 2015 positions and this has been communicated to the groups of
includes an increase of £1 million (2014 – £1 million) arising from employees affected and appropriate consultation procedures
a change in the discount rate in the year. completed, where appropriate. No provision is made for staff
severance payments that are made immediately.
In respect of product liability claims related to certain products,
there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to enable Pension augmentations arising from staff redundancies of
management to make a reliable estimate of the provision required £25 million (2014 – £7 million) have been charged during the year
to cover unasserted claims. The ultimate liability for such matters and then transferred to the pension obligations provision as shown
may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
outcome of litigation proceedings, investigations and possible Asset write-downs have been recognised as impairments of
settlement negotiations. property, plant and equipment in Note 17, ‘Property, plant and
equipment’. The majority of the amounts provided are expected
It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of to be utilised in the next two years.
these matters may be the subject of negotiation and litigation
over many years. Litigation proceedings, including the various Employee related provisions
appeal procedures, often take many years to reach resolution, and Employee related provisions include obligations for certain
out-of-court settlement discussions can also often be protracted. medical benefits to disabled employees and their spouses in
the US. At 31 December 2015, the provision for these benefits
The Group is in potential settlement discussions in a number of
amounted to £111 million (2014 – £114 million). Other employee
the disputes for which amounts have been provided and, based
benefits reflect a variety of provisions for severance costs, jubilee
on its current assessment of the progress of these disputes,
awards and other long-service benefits.
estimates that £0.3 billion of the amount provided at 31 December
2015 will be settled within one year. At 31 December 2015, it was Other provisions
expected that none (2014 – £nil) of the provision made for legal Included in other provisions are insurance provisions of
and other disputes will be reimbursed by third party insurers. For £98 million (2014 – £83 million), onerous property lease
a discussion of legal issues, see Note 45, ‘Legal proceedings’. provisions of £32 million (2014 – £33 million) and a number
of other provisions including vehicle insurance and regulatory
matters.178 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
30 Other non-current liabilities
2015 2014
£m £m
Accruals and deferred income 64 92
Contingent consideration (Note 38) 3,549 1,619
Consumer Healthcare put option liability 6,287 –
Other payables 756 690
10,656 2,401
The Consumer Healthcare put option liability relates to the ability of Novartis to put its shares in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
to GSK at certain points in the future, commencing in 2018. The liability is recorded at the present value of the expected redemption
amount, calculated using a multiples approach based on the forecast revenue and earnings of the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture.
The table below shows on an indicative basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity to reasonably possible changes in
either the sales forecasts or the sales multiples used in the valuation of this liability.
2015
Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Income statement from changes in key inputs
£m
10% increase in sales forecasts or sales multiple applied 619
10% decrease in sales forecasts or sales multiple applied (619)
31 Net debt
2015 2014
Listing exchange £m £m
Current assets:
Liquid investments 75 69
Cash and cash equivalents 5,830 4,338
5,905 4,407
Short-term borrowings:
Commercial paper – (656)
Bank loans and overdrafts (435) (379)
Obligations under finance leases (23) (28)
0.7% US$ US Medium Term Note 2016 New York Stock Exchange (850) –
0.75% US$ US Medium Term Note 2015 New York Stock Exchange – (641)
3.875% € European Medium Term Note 2015 London Stock Exchange – (1,239)
(1,308) (2,943)
Long-term borrowings:
0.7% US$ US Medium Term Note 2016 New York Stock Exchange – (800)
1.50% US$ US Medium Term Note 2017 New York Stock Exchange (1,358) (1,278)
5.625% € European Medium Term Note 2017 London Stock Exchange (918) (967)
5.65% US$ US Medium Term Note 2018 New York Stock Exchange (1,869) (1,760)
0.625% € European Medium Term Note 2019 London Stock Exchange (1,096) (1,154)
2.85% US$ US Medium Term Note 2022 New York Stock Exchange (1,351) (1,271)
2.8% US$ US Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange (841) (792)
1.375% € European Medium Term Note 2024 London Stock Exchange (726) (764)
4.00% € European Medium Term Note 2025 London Stock Exchange (546) (575)
3.375% £ European Medium Term Note 2027 London Stock Exchange (592) (591)
5.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2033 London Stock Exchange (985) (984)
5.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2034 London Stock Exchange (338) (318)
6.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2038 New York Stock Exchange (1,854) (1,747)
6.375% £ European Medium Term Note 2039 London Stock Exchange (695) (695)
5.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2042 London Stock Exchange (987) (987)
4.2% US$ US Medium Term Note 2043 New York Stock Exchange (333) (313)
4.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2045 London Stock Exchange (788) (788)
Obligations under finance leases (47) (57)
(15,324) (15,841)
Net debt (10,727) (14,377)GSK Annual Report 2015 179
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
31 Net debt continued
Current assets Long-term borrowings
Liquid investments are classified as available-for-sale investments. At the year-end, GSK had long-term borrowings of £15.3 billion
At 31 December 2015, they included US Treasury Notes and (2014 – £15.8 billion) of which £10 billion (2014 – £9.8 billion)
other government bonds. The effective interest rate on liquid falls due in more than five years. The average effective pre-swap
investments at 31 December 2015 was approximately 0.7% interest rate of all notes in issue at 31 December 2015 was
(2014 – approximately 0.3%). Liquid investment balances at approximately 3.9% (2014 – approximately 3.8%).
31 December 2015 earning interest at floating rates amount to
Long-term borrowings repayable after five years carry interest
£4 million (2014 – £69 million). Liquid investment balances at
at effective rates between 1.49% and 6.39%. The repayment
31 December 2015 earning interest at fixed rates amount to
dates range from 2022 to 2045.
£71 million (2014 – £nil).
Pledged assets
The effective interest rate on cash and cash equivalents at
The Group has pledged investments in US Treasury Notes with
31 December 2015 was approximately 1.3% (2014 –
a par value of $105 million (£71 million), (2014 – $105 million
approximately 1.6%). Cash and cash equivalents at
(£67 million)) as security against irrevocable letters of credit
31 December 2015 earning interest at floating and fixed rates
issued on the Group’s behalf in respect of the Group’s self-
amount to £5,654 million and £nil respectively (2014 – insurance activity. Provisions in respect of self-insurance are
£4,243 million and £1 million).
included within the provisions for legal and other disputes
GSK’s policy regarding the credit quality of cash and cash discussed in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’. In addition, £37 million
equivalents is referred to in Note 41, ‘Financial instruments (2014 – £32 million) of assets included in Note 22, ‘Other
and related disclosures’. non-current assets’, which do not form part of Net debt, were
pledged as collateral against future rental payments under
Short-term borrowings
operating lease arrangements entered into by Human Genome
GSK has a $10 billion (£6.8 billion) US commercial paper
Sciences, Inc. prior to its acquisition by the Group.
programme which was undrawn at 31 December 2015
(2014 – $1.0 billion (£0.7 billion) drawn). GSK also has £1.9 billion
five year committed medium-term facilities and $2.5 billion
(£1.7 billion) of 364 day committed facilities. These facilities
were put in place in September 2015 and were undrawn at
31 December 2015. Liquid investments, cash and cash
equivalents were as shown in the table on page 178.
The weighted average interest rate on current bank loans and
overdrafts at 31 December 2015 was 3.49% (2014 – 4.28%).
2015 2014
Finance lease obligations £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 25 31
Rental payments due between one and two years 21 23
Rental payments due between two and three years 15 19
Rental payments due between three and four years 6 13
Rental payments due between four and five years 6 3
Rental payments due after five years 4 2
Total future rental payments 77 91
Future finance charges (7) (6)
Total finance lease obligations 70 85
32 Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2015, contingent liabilities, comprising guarantees, discounted bills and other items arising in the normal course of
business, amounted to £200 million (2014 – £185 million). At 31 December 2015, £nil (2014 – £nil) of financial assets were pledged
as collateral for contingent liabilities. Provision is made for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes where it is both probable that the
Group will suffer an outflow of funds and it is possible to make a reliable estimate of that outflow. At 31 December 2015, other than for
those disputes where provision has been made, it was not possible to make a reliable estimate of the potential outflow of funds that might
be required to settle disputes where the possibility of there being an outflow was more than remote. Descriptions of the significant tax,
legal and other disputes to which the Group is a party are set out in Note 14, ‘Taxation’ and Note 45, ‘Legal proceedings’.180 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
33 Share capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary Shares of 25p each premium
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31 December 2013 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2014 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2015 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2013 5,397,595,969 1,349 2,022
Issued under employee share schemes 44,610,727 12 573
Share capital cancelled (100,000,000) (25) –
At 31 December 2013 5,342,206,696 1,336 2,595
Issued under employee share schemes 13,090,536 3 164
At 31 December 2014 5,355,297,232 1,339 2,759
Issued under employee share schemes 6,010,415 1 72
At 31 December 2015 5,361,307,647 1,340 2,831
31 December 2015 31 December 2014
000 000
Number of shares issuable under employee share schemes 99,833 88,801
Number of unissued shares not under option 4,538,859 4,555,902
At 31 December 2015, of the issued share capital, 29,801,412 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 491,515,950 shares were held as
Treasury shares and 4,839,990,285 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market values
of the shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 42, ‘Employee share schemes’.GSK Annual Report 2015 181
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
34 Movements in equity
Retained earnings and other reserves amounted to £943 million at 31 December 2015 (2014 – £165 million; 2013 – £3,066 million)
of which £283 million (2014 – £337 million; 2013 – £307 million) relates to joint ventures and associated undertakings. The cumulative
translation exchange in equity is as follows:
Net translation exchange included in:
Non- Total
Retained Fair value controlling translation
earnings reserve interests exchange
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2013 846 (8) (98) 740
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (260) 5 (35) (290)
At 31 December 2013 586 (3) (133) 450
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (504) 7 16 (481)
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries (219) – – (219)
At 31 December 2014 (137) 4 (117) (250)
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (624) 6 8 (610)
At 31 December 2015 (761) 10 (109) (860)
The analysis of other comprehensive income by equity category is as follows:
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2015 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (624) 6 – (618)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 416 – 416
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (91) – (91)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (346) – (346)
Deferred tax on reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 36 – 36
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – 2 – 2
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 2 – 2
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures (77) – – (77)
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – 8 8
Remeasurement gains on defined benefit plans 261 – – 261
Deferred tax on remeasurement gains in defined benefit plans (80) – – (80)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (520) 25 8 (487)
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2014 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (504) 7 – (497)
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries (219) – – (219)
Deferred tax on exchange movements (2) – – (2)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 29 – 29
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (78) – (78)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (155) – (155)
Deferred tax on reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 58 – 58
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – (5) – (5)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 5 – 5
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (1) – (1)
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures 18 – – 18
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – 16 16
Remeasurement losses on defined benefit plans (1,181) – – (1,181)
Deferred tax on remeasurement losses in defined benefit plans 262 – – 262
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (1,626) (140) 16 (1,750)182 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
34 Movements in equity continued
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2013 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (260) 5 – (255)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 367 – 367
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (29) – (29)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (38) – (38)
Deferred tax on reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 7 – 7
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – 2 – 2
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (9) – (9)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 1 – 1
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures 15 – – 15
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (35) (35)
Remeasurement gains on defined benefit plans 847 – – 847
Deferred tax on remeasurement gains in defined benefit plans (286) – – (286)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 316 306 (35) 587
The analysis of other reserves is as follows:
ESOP Trust Fair value Cash flow Other
shares reserve hedge reserve reserves Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2013 (391) 105 (10) 2,083 1,787
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (38) 2 – (36)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairment – (1) – – (1)
Net fair value movement in the year – 347 (4) – 343
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled – – – 25 25
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (45) – – – (45)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 80 – – – 80
At 31 December 2013 (356) 413 (12) 2,108 2,153
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (155) (5) – (160)
Net fair value movement in the year – 16 4 – 20
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (245) – – – (245)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 450 – – – 450
Forward contract on non-controlling interest – – – 21 21
At 31 December 2014 (151) 274 (13) 2,129 2,239
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (356) 2 – (354)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairments – 10 – – 10
Net fair value movement in the year – 367 2 – 369
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (99) – – – (99)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 175 – – – 175
At 31 December 2015 (75) 295 (9) 2,129 2,340
Other reserves include various non-distributable merger and pre-merger reserves amounting to £1,849 million at 31 December 2015
(2014 – £1,849 million; 2013 – £1,849 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created as a result of the
share buy-back programme amounting to £280 million at 31 December 2015 (2014 – £280 million; 2013 – £280 million).GSK Annual Report 2015 183
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
35 Related party transactions
GSK held a 12.4% interest in Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited at 31 December 2014 (2013 – 12.4%). Following the sale of half
of the Group’s holding in Aspen during March 2015, the investment is no longer accounted for as an associate.
At 31 December 2015, GSK owned 32 million shares or 27.8% of Theravance, Inc. (now Innoviva Inc.) which is a biopharmaceutical
company listed on NASDAQ. GSK began recognising Theravance as an associate on 1 September 2015. The royalty revenues paid
by GSK to Theravance in the period from 1 September 2015 to 31 December 2015 were £11 million (2014 – £nil). At 31 December
2015, the balance payable by GSK to Theravance was £17 million.
At 31 December 2015, GSK held a 50% interest in Japan Vaccine Co. Ltd (JVC) through its subsidiary GlaxoSmithKline K.K. This joint
venture with Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd is primarily responsible for the development and marketing of certain prophylactic vaccines in
Japan. During 2015, GSK sold £27 million (2014 – £27 million) of its vaccine products into the joint venture. At 31 December 2015,
the trading balance due to GSK from JVC was £8 million and the balance payable by GSK to JVC was £nil. In addition, a loan of
£6 million was made to JVC during the year and this amount remained due to GSK at 31 December 2015.
The aggregate compensation of the Directors and CET is given in Note 9, ‘Employee Costs’.
36 Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Profit after tax 8,372 2,831 5,628
Tax on profits 2,154 137 1,019
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures (14) (30) (43)
Finance income net of finance expense 653 659 706
Depreciation 892 780 732
Amortisation of intangible assets 738 704 682
Impairment and assets written off 822 205 928
Profit on sale of businesses (9,308) – (1,331)
Profit on sale of intangible assets (349) (255) (78)
Profit on sale of investments in associates (843) – (282)
Profit on sale of equity investments (342) (149) (36)
Changes in working capital:
Increase in inventories (111) (529) (95)
Decrease in trade receivables 98 347 16
(Increase)/decrease in other receivables (593) 95 (218)
Increase in trade payables 40 91 125
Increase in other payables 2,141 698 393
Increase/(decrease) in pension and other provisions 100 (41) (165)
Share-based incentive plans 368 332 319
Fair value adjustments – 313 (12)
Other (187) 96 211
(3,741) 3,453 2,871
Cash generated from operations 4,631 6,284 8,499184 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
37 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Net debt at beginning of year (14,377) (12,645) (14,037)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 1,503 (1,287) 1,473
Decrease/(increase) in liquid investments 2 (1) (15)
Net increase in long-term loans – (1,960) (1,913)
Net repayment of short-term loans 2,412 1,709 1,872
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases 25 23 31
Net non-cash funds of subsidiary undertakings acquired – – (6)
Exchange adjustments (268) (193) (34)
Other non-cash movements (24) (23) (16)
Movement in net debt 3,650 (1,732) 1,392
Net debt at end of year (10,727) (14,377) (12,645)
At 1 January Reclass- At 31December
2015 Exchange Other ifications Cash flow 2015
Analysis of changes in net debt £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liquid investments 69 4 – – 2 75
Cash and cash equivalents 4,338 (54) – – 1,546 5,830
Overdrafts (310) 9 – – (43) (344)
4,028 (45) – – 1,503 5,486
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper (656) – – – 656 –
European and US Medium Term Notes (1,880) 65 – (816) 1,781 (850)
Other (97) 1 – (18) – (114)
(2,633) 66 – (834) 2,437 (964)
Debt due after one year:
European and US Medium Term Notes (15,784) (292) (17) 816 – (15,277)
Other (57) (1) (7) 18 – (47)
(15,841) (293) (24) 834 – (15,324)
Net debt (14,377) (268) (24) – 3,942 (10,727)
For further information on significant changes in net debt see Note 31, ‘Net debt’.GSK Annual Report 2015 185
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
38 Acquisitions and disposals
Details of the acquisition and disposal of significant subsidiaries and associates, joint ventures and other businesses are given below:
2015
Acquisitions
Novartis Consumer Healthcare and Vaccines businesses
The three-part inter-conditional transaction with Novartis AG involving the Consumer Healthcare, Vaccines and Oncology businesses
completed on 2 March 2015.
GSK and Novartis have contributed their respective Consumer Healthcare businesses into a Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture in a
non-cash transaction. GSK has an equity interest of 63.5% and majority control of the Joint Venture. In addition, GSK has acquired
Novartis’ global Vaccines business (excluding influenza vaccines) for an initial cash consideration of $5.25 billion (£3.417 billion) with
contingent consideration representing subsequent potential milestone payments of up to $1.8 billion (£1.2 billion) arising on the
achievement of specified development targets and ongoing royalties based on the future sales performance of certain products, and
so the total amount payable is unlimited. The first milestone of $450 million (£300 million) was paid on 26 March 2015.
Other business acquisitions
In addition, GSK completed one smaller Vaccines business acquisition for cash consideration of £120 million, net of cash acquired,
and the fair value of existing investments of £15 million. This represented goodwill of £22 million and intangible assets of £124 million
less other net liabilities of £11 million.
The fair values of the assets acquired in business combinations, including goodwill, are set out in the table below. These amounts are
provisional and subject to change.
Novartis
Consumer Novartis
Healthcare Vaccines
business business Other
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired:
Intangible assets 6,003 2,680 124
Property, plant and equipment 249 434 1
Inventory 257 347 –
Trade and other receivables 400 162 2
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 304 283 19
Trade and other payables (402) (107) (3)
Deferred tax liabilities (1,154) (78) (26)
Other liabilities (165) (299) –
5,492 3,422 117
Non-controlling interest (2,150) (19) –
Goodwill 774 576 22
4,116 3,979 139
Consideration settled by shares in GSK Consumer Healthcare Holdings 4,116 – –
Cash consideration paid after purchase adjustments – 3,461 124
Fair value of equity investment disposal – – 15
Contingent consideration – 594 –
Deferred tax on contingent consideration – (52) –
Loss on settlement of pre-existing relationships – (24) –
Total consideration 4,116 3,979 139
The non-controlling interest in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture, calculated applying the full goodwill method, represents Novartis’
share of the net assets of the Joint Venture together with attributable goodwill.
The goodwill in the businesses acquired represents the potential for further synergies arising from combining the acquired businesses
with GSK’s existing businesses together with the value of the workforce acquired. The majority of the goodwill recognised is not
expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Total transaction costs recognised in 2014 and 2015 for the acquisitions from Novartis amounted to £102 million.
Since acquisition on 2 March 2015, turnover of £1,941 million arising from the Novartis Consumer Healthcare and Vaccines businesses
has been included in Group turnover. If the businesses had been acquired at the beginning of the year, it is estimated that Group turnover
in 2015 would have been approximately £320 million higher. These businesses have been integrated into the Group’s existing activities
and it is not practicable to identify the impact on the Group profit in the period.
Disposals
Oncology
GSK has divested its marketed Oncology business, related R&D activities and rights to its AKT inhibitor and also granted
commercialisation partner rights for future oncology products to Novartis for consideration of $16 billion (£10,395 million) before
purchase adjustments.186 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Other business disposals
GSK also made a number of small business disposals in the period for net cash consideration of £309 million. Profit on disposal of the
businesses has been determined as follows:
Oncology Other
£m £m
Cash consideration including currency forwards and purchase adjustments 10,060 309
Net assets sold:
Goodwill (497) (14)
Intangible assets (516) (107)
Property, plant and equipment – (25)
Inventory – (51)
Cash – (5)
Other net assets – (6)
(1,013) (208)
Loss on currency forwards booked in 2014 299 –
Disposal costs (118) (21)
Profit on disposal 9,228 80
Investments in associates and joint ventures
In March 2015, GSK sold half of its shareholding in Aspen, representing 6.2% of the issued share capital of the company, for
£571 million in cash. As a result of the sale, the Group was no longer considered to have the ability to exert significant influence over
Aspen and the Group’s remaining investment was transferred from Investments in associates to Other investments.
£m
Cash consideration 571
Net book value of shares (143)
Reclassification of exchange from other comprehensive income (30)
Transaction fees (7)
Other items (5)
Profit on disposal 386
Associates
Business Business and JV
acquisitions disposals disposals Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration (paid)/received after purchase adjustments (3,585) 10,369 571 7,355
Cash and cash equivalents acquired/(divested) 404 (5) – 399
Deferred cash proceeds – (38) – (38)
Contingent consideration paid (338) – – (338)
Transaction costs and other (22) (80) (7) (109)
Cash (outflow)/inflow in 2015 (3,541) 10,246 564 7,269
In addition, GSK made cash investments of £16 million into associates and joint ventures.
Contingent consideration payable
The consideration for certain acquisitions includes amounts contingent on future events such as development milestones or sales
performance. The Group has provided for the fair value of this contingent consideration as follows:
Shionogi-
ViiV Novartis
Healthcare Vaccines Other Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2014 923 – 1 924
Remeasurement through goodwill – – (4) (4)
Remeasurement through income statement 768 – 2 770
Settlement (7) – 41 34
At 31 December 2014 1,684 – 40 1,724
Additions through business combinations – 594 – 594
Remeasurement through income statement 1,874 111 1 1,986
Settlement (159) (300) – (459)
Other movements 10 – – 10
At 31 December 2015 3,409 405 41 3,855
£306 million of the contingent consideration payable at 31 December 2015 is expected to be paid within one year (2014 – £105 million).
The consideration payable for the acquisition of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and the Novartis Vaccines business is
expected to be paid over a number of years. Information on the sensitivity of the income statement and balance sheet to reasonably
possible changes in key inputs to the valuations of the contingent consideration payable for the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare business and
Novartis Vaccines business is provided in Note 41, ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’.GSK Annual Report 2015 187
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
During 2015, cash payments to settle the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture contingent consideration payable amounted to
£159 million in total, of which £121 million was reported in operating cash flows and £38 million in the cash flow for purchases of
business.
2014
Acquisitions
There were no acquisitions in 2014.
Acquisition and integration costs of £141 million arising on the proposed three-part inter-conditional transaction with Novartis AG
were expensed in 2014, of which £104 million was paid in cash in the year.
Disposals
During the year, £225 million was received as deferred consideration from the sale of the anti-coagulant business completed in 2013
and £1 million from the disposal of an associate.
GSK also made cash investments of £9 million into associates.
Business Associates
acquisitions and joint
and disposals ventures Total
Cash flows £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid – 9 9
Transaction costs paid 104 – 104
Purchases of businesses and associates 104 9 113
Net cash proceeds from disposals 225 1 226
2013
Acquisitions
During 2013, GSK completed the acquisition of three businesses for cash, including Okairos AG, a European based biopharmaceutical
company focused on the development of a specific vaccine technology in the prophylactic and therapeutic fields, which was acquired in
May. The total purchase price for these businesses of £255 million included £7 million of cash acquired and £1 million of contingent
consideration.
Fair value
£m
Net assets acquired
Intangibles 198
Property, plant and equipment 23
Inventory 6
Trade and other receivables 16
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 8
Deferred tax provision (23)
Trade and other payables (26)
202
Goodwill 53
255
Cash consideration paid 254
Contingent consideration 1
Total consideration 255
If the acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year, it is estimated that Group turnover would have increased by approximately
£50 million for the year. Okairos has been fully integrated into the GSK business and it is not practicable to separately identify the impact
on the Group profit for the year. The other acquisitions occurred shortly before the end of the year and had no material impact on the
Group profit for the year.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions reflects potential for business synergies and the value of workforce acquired. The majority of
this goodwill is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The results of the acquisitions are reported within the US, Europe, Emerging Markets, Japan, Other trading and unallocated
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare operating segments. The transactions were accounted for using the
acquisition accounting method.
Acquisition costs expensed in 2013 totalled £2 million.188 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Disposals
Lucozade and Ribena
On 31 December 2013, GSK completed the sale of the Lucozade and Ribena business including a manufacturing site and related
inventory to Suntory Beverage and Food Ltd for £1,352 million in cash and recognised a profit on disposal in Other operating income of
£1,057 million. Lucozade and Ribena sales, excluding retained markets, totalled £527 million for the year ending 31 December 2013.
£m
Cash consideration 1,352
Net assets sold:
Inventory (45)
Property, plant and equipment (149)
Goodwill (24)
(218)
Disposal costs (77)
Profit on disposal 1,057
Anti-coagulant business
On 31 December 2013, GSK completed the sale of the anti-coagulant business comprising of worldwide intellectual property rights
(excluding China, India and Pakistan) of Fraxiparine and Arixtra together with related inventory and a manufacturing site to the Aspen
Group for consideration of £732 million, of which £499 million was received in cash and £233 million was deferred.
Profit on disposal of £274 million was recognised in Other operating income. Worldwide sales of Fraxiparine and Arixtra, excluding
retained markets, were £345 million for the year ending 31 December 2013.
£m
Cash consideration 499
Cash consideration receivable 233
732
Net assets sold:
Inventory (138)
Property, plant and equipment (91)
Intangible assets (80)
Goodwill (31)
(340)
Disposal costs (79)
Total profit on disposal 313
Deferral of profit (39)
Profit recognised in year 274
Investments in associates and joint ventures
In November 2013, GSK sold one third of its shareholding in Aspen, representing 6.2% of the issued share capital of the company,
for £429 million in cash. At 31 December 2013, GSK held 12.4% of Aspen and continued to recognise its investment in Aspen as
an associate.
£m
Cash consideration 429
Net book value of shares (132)
Reclassification of exchange from other comprehensive income (42)
Reclassification of fair value movements from other comprehensive income 19
Profit on disposal 274GSK Annual Report 2015 189
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Business Associates
acquisitions and joint
and disposals ventures Total
Cash flows £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid 254 8 262
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (7) – (7)
Cash consideration paid, net of cash acquired 247 8 255
Total cash consideration payable, net of cash acquired 248 8 256
Contingent consideration (1) – (1)
Cash consideration paid, net of cash acquired 247 8 255
Total cash proceeds receivable 2,084 429 2,513
Cash proceeds deferred (233) – (233)
Net cash proceeds from disposals 1,851 429 2,280
39 Non-controlling interests
The Group has two subgroups that have material non-controlling interests, ViiV Healthcare Limited and its subsidiaries and GSK
Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries. Summarised financial information in respect of the ViiV Healthcare group
and GSK Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture is set out below:
ViiV Healthcare
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Turnover 2,330 1,466 1,371
(Loss)/profit after taxation (1,426) (606) 190
Other comprehensive income/(expense) 7 8 (9)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income (1,419) (598) 181
2015 2014
£m £m
Non-current assets 2,466 2,245
Current assets 1,619 1,308
Total assets 4,085 3,553
Current liabilities (1,218) (815)
Non-current liabilities (5,490) (3,253)
Total liabilities (6,708) (4,068)
Net liabilities (2,623) (515)
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,097 765 637
Net cash outflow from investing activities (63) (25) (27)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (814) (540) (662)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts in the year 220 200 (52)
The above financial information relates to the ViiV Healthcare group on a stand-alone basis, before the impact of Group-related
adjustments, primarily related to the recognition of preferential dividends. The loss after taxation of £1,426 million (2014 – loss after
taxation of £606 million; 2013 – profit after taxation of £190 million) is stated after a charge of £1,874 million (2014 – £768 million;
2013 – £253 million) for remeasurement of the contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV
Healthcare joint venture. This consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years.
The following amounts attributable to the ViiV Healthcare group are included in GSK’s Consolidated statement of comprehensive
income, Consolidated statement of changes in equity and Consolidated balance sheet:
2015 2014 2013
£m £m £m
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year attributable to non-controlling interests (143) (16) 76
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 163 120 106
Non-controlling interests in the Consolidated balance sheet 68 374190 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
39 Non-controlling interests continued
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
2015
£m
Turnover 4,627
Loss after taxation (39)
Other comprehensive income 72
Total comprehensive income 33
2015
£m
Non-current assets 11,602
Current assets 3,810
Total assets 15,412
Current liabilities (2,822)
Non-current liabilities (1,849)
Total liabilities (4,671)
Net assets 10,741
2015
£m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 277
Net cash outflow from investing activities (691)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (42)
Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts in the year (456)
The above financial information relates to the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture on a stand-alone basis since its formation on
2 March 2015, before the impact of Group-related adjustments.
The following amounts attributable to the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture are included in GSK’s Consolidated statement of
comprehensive income, Consolidated statement of changes in equity and Consolidated balance sheet:
2015
£m
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to non-controlling interests 14
Non-controlling interests in the Consolidated balance sheet 3,371GSK Annual Report 2015 191
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
40 Commitments
2015 2014
Contractual obligations and commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:
Intangible assets 6,264 7,079
Property, plant and equipment 502 359
Investments 157 100
Purchase commitments 38 428
Pensions 340 425
Other commitments 191 186
Interest on loans 9,282 9,744
Finance lease charges 7 6
16,781 18,327
The commitments related to intangible assets include milestone payments, which are dependent on successful clinical development
or on meeting specified sales targets, and which represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones, however unlikely, are
achieved. The amounts are not risk-adjusted or discounted. A number of commitments were made in 2015 under licensing and other
agreements. These new arrangements were offset by reduced commitments due on prior year transactions including amendments to
the agreement with Ionis and Shionogi.
In 2013, GSK reached an agreement with the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the
pension deficit identified at the 31 December 2011 actuarial funding valuation. A payment of £85 million is due in 2016. Future
payments will be based on the deficit position of the scheme, up to a maximum of £255 million. The table above includes this
commitment, but excludes the normal ongoing annual funding requirement in the UK of approximately £140 million.
The Group also has other commitments which principally relate to revenue payments to be made under licences and other alliances.
Commitments in respect of future interest payable on loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are disclosed below. £314 million (2014 – £310 million) is provided against
these commitments on the Group’s balance sheet.
2015 2014
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 191 138
Rental payments due between one and two years 98 91
Rental payments due between two and three years 76 73
Rental payments due between three and four years 58 54
Rental payments due between four and five years 53 48
Rental payments due after five years 313 297
Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases 789 701192 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41 F inancial instruments and related Market risk
disclosures Interest rate risk management
GSK’s objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost and
GSK uses a variety of financial instruments to finance its to balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates over
operations and derivative financial instruments to manage market time. The policy on interest rate risk management limits the amount
risks from these operations. These derivatives, principally of floating interest payments to a prescribed percentage of
comprising forward foreign currency contracts, foreign currency operating profit.
options and interest rate swaps, are used to swap borrowings and
Foreign exchange risk management
liquid assets into currencies required for Group purposes and to
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on internal and
manage exposure to financial risks from changes in foreign
external trade flows are not typically hedged. The Group’s
exchange rates and interest rates.
objective is to minimise the exposure of overseas operating
GSK does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local currency income
and the Treasury policies specifically prohibit such activity. All with local currency costs where possible. GSK’s internal trading
transactions in financial instruments are undertaken to manage transactions are matched centrally and inter-company payment
the risks arising from underlying business activities, not for terms are managed to reduce foreign currency risk. Foreign
speculation. currency cash flows can be hedged selectively including hedges
of the foreign exchange risk arising from acquisitions and disposals
Capital management
of assets.
GSK’s financial strategy supports the Group’s strategic priorities
and is regularly reviewed by the Board. GSK manages the capital Where possible, GSK manages the cash surpluses or borrowing
structure of the Group through an appropriate mix of debt and requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward
equity. contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating
currency. In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure,
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt of
the Group seeks to denominate borrowings in the currencies of
£10.7 billion (see Note 31, ‘Net debt’) and shareholders’ equity of
the principal assets and cash flows. These are primarily
£5.1 billion (see ‘Consolidated statement of changes in equity’ on
denominated in US dollars, Euros and Sterling. Certain borrowings
page 140). Total capital, including that provided by non-controlling
can be swapped into other currencies as required. Borrowings
interests, is £19.6 billion.
denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies that match
Our long-term credit rating with Standard and Poor’s is A+ investments in Group overseas assets may be treated as a hedge
(stable outlook) and with Moody’s Investor Services (‘Moody’s’) against the relevant assets. Forward contracts in major currencies
it is A2 (negative outlook). The Group’s short-term credit ratings are also used to reduce exposure to the Group’s investment in
are A-1 and P-1 with Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s overseas assets (see ‘Net investment hedges’ section of this note
respectively. for further details).
Liquidity risk management
GSK’s policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated
funding requirements. The strategy is to diversify liquidity sources
using a range of facilities and to maintain broad access to funding
markets.
At 31 December 2015, GSK had £1.3 billion of borrowings
repayable within one year and held £5.9 billion of cash and cash
equivalents and liquid investments of which £4.2 billion was held
centrally. GSK has access to short-term finance under a
$10 billion (£6.8 billion) US commercial paper programme. GSK
also has £1.9 billion five year committed medium-term facilities and
$2.5 billion (£1.7 billion) of 364 day committed facilities. These
facilities were put in place in September 2015 and were undrawn
at 31 December 2015. GSK considers this level of committed
facilities to be adequate given current liquidity requirements.
GSK has a £15 billion European Medium Term Note programme
and at 31 December 2015, £7.4 billion of notes were in issue
under this programme. The Group also has a US shelf registration
statement and at 31 December 2015, had $13.0 billion
(£8.8 billion) of notes in issue under this programme. GSK’s
long-term borrowings mature at dates between 2016 and 2045.GSK Annual Report 2015 193
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
41 F inancial instruments and related Following the completion of the Novartis transaction in March
disclosures continued 2015, GSK’s cash and liquid investment balances increased
materially. A significant proportion of these funds were placed in
Credit risk a number of AAA/Aaa rated US Treasury and Treasury repo only
The Group considers its maximum credit risk at 31 December money market funds and AAA/Aaa rated liquidity funds.
2015 to be £11,423 million (31 December 2014 – £9,054 million)
During 2015, the credit ratings of a number of the Group’s
which is the total of the Group’s financial assets with the exception
relationship banks were downgraded, most notably Deutsche
of ’Other investments’ (comprising equity investments) which bear
Bank which was downgraded to BBB+/Baa1 from A-/A3. Where
equity risk rather than credit risk. See page 195 for details on the
possible, measures have been taken to reduce the exposure to
Group’s total financial assets. At 31 December 2015, GSK’s
lower rated counterparties, including further active management
greatest concentration of credit risk was £0.8 billion with Citibank
of cash balances within GSK’s European cash pool.
(A/A1) (2014 – £0.7 billion with HSBC (AA-/Aa3)).
At 31 December 2015, £48 million of cash is categorised as held
Treasury-related credit risk
with unrated or sub-investment grade rated counterparties (lower
GSK sets global counterparty limits for each of GSK’s banking and
than BBB-/Baa3) of which £31 million is cash in transit. The
investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings from
remaining exposure is concentrated in overseas banks used for
Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Usage of these limits is monitored
local cash management or investment purposes (including
daily.
£7 million in Nigeria held with Zenith Bank and United Bank for
GSK actively manages its exposure to credit risk, reducing surplus Africa, £2 million with BTV in Austria and £2 million with
cash balances wherever possible. This is part of GSK’s strategy to Islandsbanki in Iceland).
regionalise cash management and to concentrate cash centrally as
Of the £386 million of bank balances and deposits held with
much as possible. The table below sets out the credit exposure to
BBB/Baa rated counterparties, £85 million was held with
counterparties by rating for liquid investments, cash and cash
BBB-/Baa3 rated counterparties. This includes bank balances or
equivalents and derivatives. The gross asset position on each
deposits of £53 million with State Bank of India and £25 million
derivative contract is considered for the purpose of this table,
with HDFC Bank in India. These banks are used for either local
although, under ISDA agreements, the amount at risk is the net
cash management purposes or for local investment purposes.
position with each counterparty. Table (e) on page 199 sets out the
Group’s financial assets and liabilities on an offset basis.
BB+/Ba1
and below
AAA/Aaa AA/Aa A/A BBB/Baa /unrated Total
2015 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits – 1,354 1,979 386 48 3,767
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds 624 – – – – 624
Liquidity funds 1,439 – – – – 1,439
Government securities – 72 – 3 – 75
3rd party financial derivatives – 55 67 3 – 125
Total 2,063 1,481 2,046 392 48 6,030
BB+/Ba1
and below
AAA/Aaa AA/Aa A/A BBB/Baa /unrated Total
2014 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits – 1,104 2,118 184 121 3,527
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds 811 – – – – 811
Government securities – 68 – 1 – 69
3rd party financial derivatives – 45 87 6 – 138
Total 811 1,217 2,205 191 121 4,545
The 2014 table has been restated to include further detail regarding counterparty credit ratings. Credit ratings are assigned by Standard
and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively. Where the opinion of the two rating agencies differ, GSK assigns the lower rating of the two to the
counterparty. Where local rating agency or Fitch data is the only source available, the ratings are converted to global ratings equivalent to
those of Standard and Poor’s or Moody’s using published conversion tables.194 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41 F inancial instruments and related The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate
disclosures continued the fair values:
• Cash and cash equivalents – approximates to the carrying
GSK’s centrally managed cash reserves amounted to £3.1 billion
amount
at 31 December 2015, all available within three months. This
excludes £1.1 billion centrally managed cash held by ViiV • Liquid investments – based on quoted market prices or
Healthcare, a 78.3% owned subsidiary. The Group has invested calculated based on observable inputs in the case of marketable
centrally managed liquid assets in bank deposits, Aaa/AAA rated securities; based on principal amounts in the case of non-
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds and marketable securities because of their short repricing periods
Aaa/AAA rated liquidity funds.
• Other investments – equity investments traded in an active
Wholesale and retail credit risk market determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange
Outside the US, no customer accounts for more than 5% of the quoted bid price; other equity investments determined by
Group’s trade receivables balance. reference to the current market value of similar instruments or
by reference to the discounted cash flows of the underlying net
In the US, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the Group
assets
sells its products through a small number of wholesalers in
addition to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups. • Short-term loans, overdrafts and commercial paper –
Sales to the three largest wholesalers amount to approximately approximates to the carrying amount because of the short
82% of the sales of the US elements of the Global maturity of these instruments
Pharmaceuticals, HIV and Vaccines segments. At 31 December
• Long-term loans – based on quoted market prices in the case
2015, the Group had trade receivables due from these three
of European and US Medium term notes and other fixed rate
wholesalers totalling £990 million (2014 – £908 million). The
borrowings (a level 1 fair value measurement); approximates to
Group is exposed to a concentration of credit risk in respect of
the carrying amount in the case of floating rate bank loans and
these wholesalers such that, if one or more of them encounters
other loans
financial difficulty, it could materially and adversely affect the
Group’s financial results. • Contingent consideration for business acquisitions – based on
present values of expected future cash flows
The Group’s credit risk monitoring activities relating to these
wholesalers include a review of their quarterly financial information • Interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts and
and Standard & Poor’s credit ratings, development of GSK internal options – based on the present value of contractual cash flows
risk ratings, and establishment and periodic review of credit limits. or option valuation models using market sourced data (exchange
However, the Group believes there is no further credit risk rates or interest rates) at the balance sheet date
provision required in excess of the normal provision for bad and
• Receivables and payables – approximates to the carrying doubtful debts (see Note 24, ‘Trade and other receivables’).
amount
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
• Company-owned life insurance policies – based on cash
The table on page 195 presents the carrying amounts and the surrender value
fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at
31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014. • Lease obligations – approximates to the carrying amount.
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included at Fair value of investments in GSK shares
the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer At 31 December 2015, the Employee Share Ownership Plan
a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at (ESOP) Trusts held GSK shares with a carrying value of
the measurement date. £75 million (2014 – £151 million) and a fair value of £409 million
(2014 – £726 million) based on quoted market price. The shares
are held by the ESOP Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options
and awards under employee incentive schemes. In 2015, the
carrying value, which is the lower of cost or expected proceeds,
of these shares has been recognised as a deduction from other
reserves. At 31 December 2015, GSK held Treasury shares at a
cost of £6,917 million (2014 – £6,917 million) which has been
deducted from retained earnings.GSK Annual Report 2015 195
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2015 2014
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
value value value value
Notes £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents e 5,830 5,830 4,338 4,338
Available-for-sale investments:
Liquid investments (Government bonds) a 75 75 69 69
Other investments a 1,255 1,255 1,114 1,114
Loans and receivables:
Trade and other receivables and certain Other non-current
assets in scope of IAS 39 b 5,114 5,114 4,232 4,232
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current assets in scope of IAS 39 a,b 279 279 269 269
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss a,d,e 6 6 76 76
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 a,d,e 119 119 70 70
Total financial assets 12,678 12,678 10,168 10,168
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Borrowings excluding obligations under finance leases:
– bonds in a designated hedging relationship d (2,740) (2,872) (4,124) (4,349)
– other bonds (13,387) (15,209) (13,540) (15,706)
– bank loans and overdrafts e (435) (435) (379) (379)
– commercial paper – – (656) (656)
Total borrowings excluding obligations under finance leases f (16,562) (18,516) (18,699) (21,090)
Obligations under finance leases (70) (70) (85) (85)
Total borrowings (16,632) (18,586) (18,784) (21,175)
Trade and other payables, Other provisions and certain
Other non-current liabilities in scope of IAS 39 c (14,748) (14,748) (7,566) (7,566)
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Trade and other payables, Other provisions and certain
Other non-current liabilities in scope of IAS 39 a,c (3,855) (3,855) (1,724) (1,724)
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss a,d,e (97) (97) (3) (3)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 a,d,e (56) (56) (410) (410)
Total financial liabilities (35,388) (37,342) (28,487) (30,878)
Net financial assets and financial liabilities (22,710) (24,664) (18,319) (20,710)
The valuation methodology used to measure fair value in the above table is described and categorised on page 194. Trade and other
receivables, Other non-current assets, Trade and other payables, Other provisions and Other non-current liabilities are reconciled to
the relevant Notes on pages 197 and 198.196 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(a) Financial instruments held at fair value
The following tables categorise the Group’s financial assets and liabilities held at fair value by the valuation methodology applied in
determining their fair value. Where possible, quoted prices in active markets are used (Level 1). Where such prices are not available,
the asset or liability is classified as Level 2, provided all significant inputs to the valuation model used are based on observable market
data. If one or more of the significant inputs to the valuation model is not based on observable market data, the instrument is classified as
Level 3. Other investments classified as Level 3 in the tables below comprise equity investments in unlisted entities with which the Group
has entered into research collaborations and also investments in emerging life science companies. Trade and other payables and Other
non-current liabilities classified as level 3 comprise contingent consideration for business acquisitions.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2015 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Available–for–sale financial assets:
Liquid investments 71 4 – 75
Other investments 987 – 268 1,255
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current assets – 276 3 279
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – 6 – 6
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – 116 3 119
1,058 402 274 1,734
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Trade and other payables – – (306) (306)
Other non-current liabilities – – (3,549) (3,549)
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – (97) – (97)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – (55) (1) (56)
– (152) (3,856) (4,008)
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2014 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Available–for–sale financial assets:
Liquid investments 67 2 – 69
Other investments 892 – 222 1,114
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current assets – 264 5 269
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – 76 – 76
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – 69 1 70
959 411 228 1,598
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Trade and other payables – – (105) (105)
Other non-current liabilities – – (1,619) (1,619)
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – (3) – (3)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – (402) (8) (410)
– (405) (1,732) (2,137)
Movements in the year for financial instruments measured using Level 3 valuation methods are presented below:
2015 2014
£m £m
At 1 January (1,504) (757)
Net losses recognised in the income statement (1,994) (775)
Net gains recognised in other comprehensive income 36 155
Contingent consideration liabilities for businesses acquired during the year (594) –
Payment of contingent consideration liabilities 459 7
Additions 77 55
Disposals (64) (153)
Transfers from Level 3 (7) (47)
Exchange 9 11
At 31 December (3,582) (1,504)GSK Annual Report 2015 197
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Included in net losses of £1,994 million (2014 – £775 million) attributable to Level 3 financial instruments which were recognised in the
income statement are net losses of £2,035 million (2014 – £775 million) in respect of financial instruments which were held at the end
of the year. These net losses were reported in Other operating income. £1,874 million (2014 – £768 million) arose from remeasurement
of the contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and £111 million arose
from remeasurement of the contingent consideration payable on the acquisition in 2015 of the Novartis Vaccines business. Net gains
of £36 million (2014 – £155 million) attributable to Level 3 equity investments reported in Other comprehensive income as Fair value
movements on available-for-sale investments included net losses of £8 million (2014 – net gains of £32 million) in respect of equity
investments held at the end of the year.
Financial liabilities measured using Level 3 valuation methods at 31 December include £3,409 million (2014 – £1,684 million) in respect
of contingent consideration payable for the acquisition in 2012 of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. The increase in fair
value included the impacts of revisions to the discount rate and tax rate in the year. This consideration is expected to be paid over a
number of years and will vary in line with the future performance of specified products. They also include £405 million in respect of
contingent consideration for the acquisition of the Novartis Vaccines business. This consideration is expected to be paid over a number
of years and will vary in line with the future performance of specified products and the achievement of certain milestone targets.
The table below shows on an indicative basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity to reasonably possible changes in
key inputs to the valuations of these liabilities.
Shionogi-
ViiV Novartis
Healthcare Vaccines
Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Income statement from change in key inputs £m £m
10% increase in sales forecasts 340 43
10% decrease in sales forecasts (340) (41)
1% increase in market interest rates (180) (33)
1% decrease in market interest rates 196 39
10% increase in probability of milestone success 50
10% decrease in probability of milestone success (50)
(b) Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets in scope of IAS 39
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets which fall within
the scope of IAS 39 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial assets are predominantly non-interest earning. Financial
instruments within the Other non-current assets balance include company-owned life insurance policies. Non-financial instruments
include tax receivables, pension surplus balances and prepayments, which are outside the scope of IAS 39.
2015 2014
At fair value Non- At fair value Non-
through Loans and Financial financial through Loans and Financial financial
profit or loss receivables instruments instruments Total profit or loss receivables instruments instruments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other receivables
(Note 24) – 4,751 4,751 864 5,615 – 3,921 3,921 679 4,600
Other non-current assets
(Note 22) 279 363 642 348 990 269 311 580 155 735
279 5,114 5,393 1,212 6,605 269 4,232 4,501 834 5,335
The following table shows the age of such financial assets which are past due and for which no provision for bad or doubtful debts has
been made:
2015 2014
£m £m
Past due by 1–30 days 200 116
Past due by 31–90 days 136 130
Past due by 91–180 days 76 110
Past due by 181–365 days 49 67
Past due by more than 365 days 90 41
551 464198 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(c) Trade and other payables, Other provisions and Other non-current liabilities in scope of IAS 39
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other payables, Other provisions and Other non-current liabilities
which fall within the scope of IAS 39 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial liabilities are predominantly non-interest
bearing. Accrued wages and salaries are included within financial liabilities. Non-financial instruments includes payments on account,
tax and social security payables and provisions which do not arise from contractual obligations to deliver cash or another financial asset,
which are outside the scope of IAS 39.
2015 2014
At fair value Non- At fair value Non-
through Other Financial financial through Other Financial financial
profit or loss liabilities instruments instruments Total profit or loss liabilities instruments instruments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other payables
(Note 27) (306) (8,199) (8,505) (686) (9,191) (105) (7,345) (7,450) (508) (7,958)
Other provisions
(Note 29) – (159) (159) (1,605) (1,764) – (158) (158) (1,432) (1,590)
Other non-current liabilities
(Note 30) (3,549) (6,390) (9,939) (717) (10,656) (1,619) (63) (1,682) (719) (2,401)
(3,855) (14,748) (18,603) (3,008) (21,611) (1,724) (7,566) (9,290) (2,659) (11,949)
(d) Derivative financial instruments and hedging programmes
The following table sets out the fair values of derivatives held by GSK.
2015 2014
Fair value Fair value
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Net investment hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £6,192 million (2014 – £5,365 million)) 3 (97) 74 (1)
Cash flow hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £69 million (2014 – £133 million)) 3 – 2 (2)
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss 6 (97) 76 (3)
Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £12,152 million (2014 – £15,851 million)) 115 (54) 68 (399)
Embedded and other derivatives 4 (2) 2 (11)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 119 (56) 70 (410)
Total derivative instruments 125 (153) 146 (413)
Analysed as:
Current 125 (153) 146 (404)
Non-current – – – (9)
Total 125 (153) 146 (413)
Foreign exchange contracts classified as held for trading under IAS 39
The principal amount on foreign exchange contracts is the absolute total of outstanding positions at the balance sheet date. The Group’s
foreign exchange contracts are for periods of 12 months or less. At 31 December 2015, the Group held outstanding foreign exchange
contracts with a net asset fair value of £61 million (£115 million asset less £54 million liability). At December 2014, the fair value was
£331 million net liability (£68 million asset less £399 million liability).
Following the announcement of the Novartis transaction in April 2014, GSK entered into a number of forward exchange contracts to
protect the Sterling value of the net US dollar proceeds due to the Group on completion of the transaction. At 31 December 2014, these
contracts were in a loss position and resulted in a liability of £264 million and an unrealised loss of £299 million. At maturity on 2 March
2015, these contracts were in a loss position of £319 million and resulted in a realised loss of £55 million in the year. This loss has partly
offset the gain in the Sterling value of the proceeds received by the Group on divestment of its Oncology business as a result of
favourable exchange movements since the inception of the forward contracts.
The overall increase in the net asset fair value has been due to the maturity of this hedge during the year and to increased hedging of
inter-company loans that are not designated as accounting hedges. Fair value movements are taken to the income statement in the
period to offset the exchange gains and losses on the related inter-company loan balances.GSK Annual Report 2015 199
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Fair value hedges
At 31 December 2015, the Group had no designated fair value hedges.
Net investment hedges
During the year, certain foreign exchange contracts were designated as net investment hedges in respect of the foreign currency
translation risk arising on consolidation of the Group’s net investment in its European (Euro) and Japanese (Yen) foreign operations as
shown in the table above. Net assets in Swiss (Franc) and South African (Rand) foreign operations were also in designated net
investment hedges, although none remained outstanding at 31 December 2015.
The carrying value of bonds on page 195 includes £2,740 million (2014 – £4,124 million) that are designated as hedging instruments in
net investment hedges.
Cash flow hedges
During 2015, the Group entered into forward foreign exchange contracts which it designated as cash flow hedges of its foreign
exchange exposure arising on Euro and US dollar denominated coupon payments relating to the Group’s European and US medium term
notes.
In addition, the Group carries a balance in reserves that arose from pre-hedging fluctuations in long-term interest rates when pricing
bonds issued in prior years. The balance is reclassified to finance costs over the life of these bonds.
(e) Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities
The following tables set out the financial assets and financial liabilities which are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting
arrangements and similar agreements. Amounts which are set off against financial assets and liabilities in the Group’s balance sheet are
set out below. For Trade and other receivables, Trade and other payables, Derivative financial assets and Derivative financial liabilities,
amounts not offset in the balance sheet but which could be offset under certain circumstances are also set out.
Gross Net financial
Gross financial assets/ Related
financial (liabilities)/ (liabilities) amounts not
assets/ assets per balance set off in the
(liabilities) set off sheet balance sheet Net
At 31 December 2015 £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other receivables 4,757 (6) 4,751 (17) 4,734
Derivative financial assets 125 – 125 (98) 27
Cash and cash equivalents 5,833 (3) 5,830
10,715 (9) 10,706
Trade and other payables (8,511) 6 (8,505) 17 (8,488)
Derivative financial liabilities (153) – (153) 98 (55)
Bank loans and overdrafts (438) 3 (435)
(9,102) 9 (9,093)
Gross Net financial
Gross financial assets/ Related
financial (liabilities)/ (liabilities) amounts not
assets/ assets per balance set off in the
(liabilities) set off sheet balance sheet Net
At 31 December 2014 £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other receivables 3,926 (5) 3,921 (22) 3,899
Derivative financial assets 146 – 146 (134) 12
Cash and cash equivalents 4,570 (232) 4,338
8,642 (237) 8,405
Trade and other payables (7,455) 5 (7,450) 22 (7,428)
Derivative financial liabilities (413) – (413) 134 (279)
Bank loans and overdrafts (611) 232 (379)
(8,479) 237 (8,242)
The gross financial assets and liabilities set off in the balance sheet primarily relate to cash pooling arrangements with banks. Amounts
which do not meet the criteria for offsetting on the balance sheet but could be settled net in certain circumstances principally relate to
derivative transactions under ISDA (International Swaps and Derivatives Association) agreements where each party has the option to
settle amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.200 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(f) Debt interest rate repricing table
The following table sets out the exposure of the Group to interest rates on debt, including commercial paper. The maturity analysis of
fixed rate debt is stated by contractual maturity and of floating rate debt by interest rate repricing dates. For the purpose of this table,
debt is defined as all classes of borrowings other than obligations under finance leases.
2015 2014
Total
debt Total
£m £m
Floating and fixed rate debt less than one year (1,285) (2,915)
Between one and two years (2,276) (800)
Between two and three years (1,868) (2,244)
Between three and four years (1,096) (1,760)
Between four and five years – (1,154)
Between five and ten years (3,464) (2,827)
Greater than ten years (6,573) (6,999)
Total (16,562) (18,699)
Original issuance profile:
Fixed rate interest (16,127) (17,665)
Floating rate interest (434) (1,033)
Total interest bearing (16,561) (18,698)
Non-interest bearing (1) (1)
(16,562) (18,699)
(g) Sensitivity analysis
Foreign exchange and interest rate sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the assumption that the amount of net debt, the ratio of
fixed to floating interest rates of the debt and derivatives portfolio and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all
constant and on the basis of the hedge designations as at 31 December. Financial instruments affected by market risk include cash and
cash equivalents, borrowings, trade receivables and payables and derivative financial instruments.
The following analyses are intended to illustrate the sensitivity of such financial instruments to changes in foreign exchange and interest rates.
Foreign exchange sensitivity
Foreign currency exposures arise from the translation of financial assets and liabilities which are not in the functional currency of the
entity that holds them (cash and cash equivalents, bank loans and overdrafts, inter-company loans and deposits, other receivables and
payables and trade receivables and payables) and derivative financial instruments hedging legal provisions and activities arising from
acquisitions and disposals of assets.
The Group is primarily exposed to foreign exchange risk in relation to Sterling against movements in US dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen.
Based on the Group’s net financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December, a weakening of Sterling against these currencies, with all
other variables held constant, is illustrated in the table below. The table excludes financial instruments that expose the Group to foreign
exchange risk where this risk is fully hedged with another financial instrument.
2015 2014
Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in
income income
Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US dollar (2014: 10 cent) 77 (263)
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (2014: 10 cent) 7 11
10 yen appreciation of the Yen (2014: 10 yen) (1) –
An equivalent depreciation in the above currencies would cause the following increase/(decrease) in income £(67) million, £(6) million
and £1 million (2014 – £169 million, £(10) million and £nil) for US dollar, Euro and Yen exchange rates respectively.GSK Annual Report 2015 201
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The equity impact, shown below, for foreign exchange sensitivity relates to derivative and non-derivative financial instruments hedging
the Group’s net investments in its European (Euro) and Japanese (Yen) foreign operations and cash flow hedges of its foreign exchange
exposure arising on Euro dominated coupon payments relating to the Group’s European medium term notes.
2015 2014
Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in
equity equity
Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US dollar (2014: 10 cent) – 2
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (2014: 10 cent) (676) (762)
10 yen appreciation of the Yen (2014: 10 yen) (20) (18)
An equivalent depreciation in the above currencies would cause the following increase/(decrease) in equity: £nil, £584 million and
£18 million (2014 – £(2) million, £652 million and £16 million) for US dollar, Euro and Yen exchange rates respectively.
The table below presents the Group’s sensitivity to foreign exchange rates based on the composition of net debt as shown in Note 31
adjusting for the effects of foreign exchange derivatives that are not part of net debt but affect future foreign currency cash flows.
2015 2014
(Increase)/decrease in (Increase)/decrease in
net debt net debt
Impact of foreign exchange movements on net debt £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US dollar (2014: 10 cent) (471) (446)
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (2014: 10 cent) 221 227
10 yen appreciation of the Yen (2014: 10 yen) 4 11
An equivalent depreciation in the above currencies would have the following impact on net debt: £411 million, £(190) million and
£(4) million for US dollar, Euro and Yen exchange rates respectively (2014 – £392 million, £(195) million and £(9) million).
Interest rate sensitivity
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its outstanding borrowings and investments where any changes in interest rates will affect
future cash flows or the fair values of financial instruments.
The majority of debt is issued at fixed interest rates and changes in the floating rates of interest do not significantly affect the Group’s net
interest charge, although the majority of cash and liquid investments earn floating rates of interest.
The table below hypothetically shows the Group’s sensitivity to changes in interest rates in relation to Sterling, US dollar and Euro
variable rate financial assets and liabilities. If the interest rates applicable to floating rate financial assets and liabilities were to have
increased by 1% (100 basis points), and assuming other variables had remained constant, it is estimated that the Group’s finance income
for 2015 would have increased by approximately £37 million (2014 - £5 million increase). A 1% (100 basis points) movement in interest
rates is not deemed to have a material effect on equity.
2015 2014
Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in
income income
Income statement impact of interest rate movements £m £m
1% (100 basis points) increase in Sterling interest rates (2014: 1%) 19 (19)
1% (100 basis points) increase in US dollar interest rates (2014: 1%) 14 19
1% (100 basis points) increase in Euro interest rates (2014: 1%) 4 5
(h) Contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative instruments
The following tables provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows including interest payable for the Group’s non-
derivative financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis. The impact of interest rate swaps has been excluded. For the purpose of this
table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings except for obligations under finance leases. Interest is calculated based on debt held
at 31 December without taking account of future issuance. Floating rate interest is estimated using the prevailing interest rate at the
balance sheet date. Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using spot rates at 31 December. Contractual cash flows in respect
of operating lease vacant space provisions are excluded from the table below as they are included in the Commitments under non-
cancellable operating leases table in Note 40, ‘Commitments’.
Finance charge Trade payables
Obligations on obligations and other
Interest on under finance under finance liabilities not
Debt debt leases leases in net debt Total
At 31 December 2015 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (1,285) (638) (23) (2) (8,505) (10,453)
Between one and two years (2,280) (625) (20) (1) (479) (3,405)
Between two and three years (1,871) (510) (14) (1) (7,688) (10,084)
Between three and four years (1,103) (457) (6) – (452) (2,018)
Between four and five years – (451) (6) – (655) (1,112)
Between five and ten years (3,498) (2,047) (1) – (2,452) (7,998)
Greater than ten years (6,651) (4,554) – (3) (2,635) (13,843)
Gross contractual cash flows (16,688) (9,282) (70) (7) (22,866) (48,913)202 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative instruments
Finance charge Trade payables
Obligations on obligations and other
Interest on under finance under finance liabilities not
Debt debt leases leases in net debt Total
At 31 December 2014 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (2,917) (678) (29) (2) (7,489) (11,115)
Between one and two years (801) (623) (21) (2) (251) (1,698)
Between two and three years (2,251) (611) (18) (1) (219) (3,100)
Between three and four years (1,763) (497) (12) (1) (273) (2,546)
Between four and five years (1,163) (447) (3) – (324) (1,937)
Between five and ten years (2,859) (2,074) (2) – (1,969) (6,904)
Greater than ten years (7,085) (4,814) – – (1,734) (13,633)
Gross contractual cash flows (18,839) (9,744) (85) (6) (12,259) (40,933)
The increase in contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities of £8 billion over the year results principally from the addition
of the Consumer Healthcare put option liability and contingent consideration payable for the Novartis Vaccines business acquired in
the year. In addition, there is an increase of £1 billion in forecast future cash flows in respect of contingent consideration payable for
the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012. These increases are partially offset by a reduction of
£2.6 billion in forecast future cash flows for repayment of debt and debt interest.
The table below provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows for the Group’s derivative instruments, excluding
embedded derivatives and equity options which are not material, using undiscounted cash flows. Cash flows in foreign currencies are
translated using spot rates at 31 December. The gross cash flows of foreign exchange contracts are presented for the purposes of this
table although, in practice, the Group uses standard settlement arrangements to reduce its liquidity requirements on these instruments.
The amounts receivable and payable in less than one year have decreased compared to 31 December 2014 due to the maturity of the
foreign exchange contracts that were hedging the US dollar proceeds of the Novartis transaction.
2015 2014
Receivables Payables Receivables Payables
£m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year 18,283 (18,318) 21,586 (21,841)
Between one and two years 20 (20) – –
Gross contractual cash flows 18,303 (18,338) 21,586 (21,841)
42 Employee share schemes
GSK operates several employee share schemes, including the Share Value Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire
shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost after a three year vesting period and the Performance Share Plan, whereby awards are
granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost, subject to the achievement by the Group of specified
performance targets. The granting of these restricted share awards has replaced the granting of options to employees as the cost of the
schemes more readily equates to the potential gain to be made by the employee. The Group also operates savings related share option
schemes, whereby options are granted to employees to acquire shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc at a discounted price.
Grants of restricted share awards are normally exercisable at the end of the three year vesting or performance period. Awards under the
Performance Share Plan are normally granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc but in some circumstances
may be settled in cash. Grants under savings-related share option schemes are normally exercisable after three years’ saving. In
accordance with UK practice, the majority of options under the savings-related share option schemes are granted at a price 20% below
the market price ruling at the date of grant. Options under historical share option schemes were granted at the market price ruling at the
date of grant.
The total charge for share-based incentive plans in 2015 was £349 million (2014 – £346 million; 2013 – £319 million). Of this amount,
£307 million (2014 – £302 million; 2013 – £243 million) arose from the Share Value Plan. See Note 9, ‘Employee Costs’ for further
details.GSK Annual Report 2015 203
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
42 Employee share schemes continued
GlaxoSmithKline share award schemes
Share Value Plan
Under the Share Value Plan, share awards are granted to certain employees at no cost. The awards vest after two and a half to three
years and there are no performance criteria attached. The fair value of these awards is determined based on the closing share price on
the day of grant, after deducting the expected future dividend yield of 5.7% (2014 – 5.2%; 2013 – 5.0%) over the duration of the award.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number of shares and ADS issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1 January 2013 25,318 17,788
Awards granted 12,011 £14.76 7,681 $46.04
Awards exercised (5,324) (4,009)
Awards cancelled (938) (622)
At 31 December 2013 31,067 20,838
Awards granted 12,410 £12.65 7,842 $41.56
Awards exercised (9,642) (6,787)
Awards cancelled (923) (666)
At 31 December 2014 32,912 21,227
Awards granted 13,019 £11.57 7,198 $35.66
Awards exercised (11,476) (8,878)
Awards cancelled (1,878) (2,027)
At 31 December 2015 32,577 17,520
Performance Share Plan
Under the Performance Share Plan, share awards are granted to Directors and senior executives at no cost. The percentage of each
award that vests is based upon the performance of the Group over a defined measurement period with dividends reinvested during the
same period. For awards granted from 2014 to Directors and members of the CET, the performance conditions are based on three
equally weighted measures over a three year performance period. These are adjusted free cash flow, TSR and R&D new product
performance.
For those awards made to all other eligible employees the performance conditions are based on both GSK’s EPS growth compared
with the increase in the UK Retail Prices Index over the three year measurement period and adjusted free cash flow. In addition, some
businesses have an element of their award based on a strategic or operational business measure, over a three year measurement period,
specific to the employee’s business area.
The fair value of the awards is determined based on the closing share price on the day of grant. For TSR performance elements,
this is adjusted by the likelihood of that condition being met, as assessed at the time of grant.
During 2015, awards were made of 4.6 million shares at a weighted fair value of £12.19 and 1.3 million ADS at a weighted fair value
of $37.27. At 31 December 2015, there were outstanding awards over 13.2 million shares and 3.5 million ADS.
Share options and savings-related options
For the purposes of valuing options and savings-related options to arrive at the share based payment charge, a Black-Scholes option
pricing model has been used. The assumptions used in the model are as follows:
2015 2014 2013
Risk-free interest rate 0.88% 0.7% 0.7%
Dividend yield 6.5% 5.8% 5.3%
Volatility 21% 19% 20%
Expected life 3 years 3 years 3 years
Savings-related options grant price (including 20% discount) £10.14 £11.31 £12.47204 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
42 Employee share schemes continued
Share option Share option Savings-related
Options outstanding
schemes – shares schemes – ADS share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
000 price 000 price 000 price
At 31 December 2015 13,227 £12.86 10,957 $47.75 6,611 £10.68
Range of exercise prices on options outstanding
at year end £11.47 – £14.93 $33.42 – $58.00 £10.13 – £12.47
Weighted average market price on exercise
during year £14.73 $44.63 £13.45
Weighted average remaining contractual life 2.2 years 1.6 years 2.8 years
Options over 4.4 million shares were granted during the year under the savings-related share option scheme at a weighted average fair
value of £1.78. At 31 December 2015, 5.9 million of the savings-related share options were not exercisable. All of the other share options
and ADS options are currently exercisable and all will expire if not exercised on or before 22 July 2020.
There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc to satisfy
awards made under employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the ESOP
Trusts purchase shares with finance provided by the Group by way of loans or contributions. In 2014, Treasury shares with a carrying
value of £150 million were purchased by the UK ESOP Trust to satisfy future awards under the shareholder approved Performance Share
Plan. The costs of running the ESOP Trusts are charged to the income statement. Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from
other reserves and amortised down to the value of proceeds, if any, receivable from employees on exercise by a transfer to retained
earnings. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
Shares held for share award schemes 2015 2014
Number of shares (000) 29,662 52,595
£m £m
Nominal value 7 13
Carrying value 74 150
Market value 407 724
Shares held for share option schemes 2015 2014
Number of shares (000) 139 139
£m £m
Nominal value – –
Carrying value 1 1
Market value 2 2
43 Post balance sheet events
In certain circumstances, Pfizer and Shionogi (GSK’s partners in ViiV Healthcare) were historically able to require GSK to acquire their
shareholdings at a price based on the likely valuation of ViiV Healthcare if it were to conduct an initial public offering. Under the original
agreements, GSK had the unconditional right, so long as it made no subsequent distribution to its shareholders, to withhold its consent
to the exercise of either put option.
In February 2016, GSK notified Pfizer and Shionogi that it had irrevocably given up this right. This will lead to recognition of a liability
for these put options on the Group’s balance sheet in 2016. The estimated present value of the liability for the two put options is
approximately £2 billion, after adjustments for the value of preferential dividends due to each of the shareholders.
Consistent with this revised treatment, in 2016 GSK will also recognise liabilities on the Group’s balance sheet for the future preferential
dividends anticipated to become payable to Pfizer and Shionogi. The estimated aggregate present value of the liability for preferential
dividends to both Pfizer and Shionogi is approximately £170 million.
On 22 February 2016, ViiV Healthcare completed two previously announced transactions with Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS). ViiV
Healthcare acquired late-stage R&D assets from BMS for an initial upfront payment of $317 million followed by development and first
commercial sale milestones of up to $518 million, and tiered royalties on sales. ViiV Healthcare also acquired BMS’s preclinical and
discovery stage HIV research business for an upfront payment of $33 million, followed by development and first commercial sales
milestones of up to $587 million, and further consideration contingent on future sales performance.GSK Annual Report 2015 205
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
44 Principal Group companies
The following represent the principal subsidiaries and their countries of incorporation of the Group at 31 December 2015. The equity
share capital of these entities is wholly owned by the Group except where its percentage interest is shown otherwise. All companies are
incorporated in their principal country of operation except where stated.
England US
Glaxo Group Limited Block Drug Company, Inc.
Glaxo Operations UK Limited Corixa Corporation
GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited (63.5%) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. (55.9%)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) Trading Limited (63.5%) GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited GlaxoSmithKline LLC
GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Human Genome Sciences, Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited * Novartis Consumer Health, Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited Stiefel Laboratories, Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited * ViiV Healthcare Company (78.3%)
GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited
Setfirst Limited
SmithKline Beecham Limited
ViiV Healthcare Limited (78.3%)
ViiV Healthcare UK Limited (78.3%)
Europe Others
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A. (Belgium) GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. (Argentina)
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. (Belgium) GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd. (Australia)
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A.S. (France) GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada (Brazil)
Groupe GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. (France) GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (Canada)
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. (France) ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec (Canada)
ViiV Healthcare S.A.S. (France) (78.3%) GlaxoSmithKline (China) Investment Co. Ltd. (China)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co. KG GlaxoSmithKline Limited (China)
(Germany) (63.5%) GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals (Suzhou) Limited (China)
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG (Germany) Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd. (China) (34.9%)
Novartis Consumer Health GmbH (Germany) (63.5%) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited (India) (72.5%)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.p.A. (Italy) (63.5%) GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited (India) (75%)
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. (Italy) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Japan K.K. (Japan)
GlaxoSmithKline B.V. (Netherlands) GlaxoSmithKline K.K. (Japan)
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. (Poland) GlaxoSmithKline Mexico S.A. de C.V. (Mexico)
GSK Services Sp.z.o.o. (Poland) GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited (Pakistan) (82.6%)
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (Republic of Ireland) (i) Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd. (Singapore)
GlaxoSmithKline S.A. (Spain) GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd. (Singapore)
Novartis Consumer Health S.A. (Switzerland) (63.5%) GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited (South Korea)
GlaxoSmithKline llaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. (Turkey)
(i) Exempt from the provisions of section 347 and 348 of the Companies Act 2014 (Ireland), in accordance with the exemptions noted
in Section 357 of that Act. Further subsidiaries, as disclosed on pages 250 to 258, are exempt from these provisions as they are
also consolidated in the group financial statements.
* Directly held wholly owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
The subsidiaries and associates listed above principally affect the figures in the Group’s financial statements. Each of GlaxoSmithKline
Capital Inc. and GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc is a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of the company, and the company has fully and
unconditionally guaranteed the securities issued by each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. and GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc.
See pages 250 to 258 for a complete list of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures, which form part of these financial
statements.206 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
45 Legal proceedings Intellectual property
Advair HFA, Flovent HFA, Ventolin HFA
The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative On 29 September 2015, Mylan Pharmaceuticals (Mylan) filed a
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, petition for an Inter Partes Review (IPR) with the United States
tax, anti-trust and governmental investigations, as well as related Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) seeking to invalidate a
private litigation. The Group makes provision for these proceedings patent covering the surfactant-free formulation and its use in the
on a regular basis as summarised in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) metered dose inhalers for Advair, Flovent
and policies’ and Note 29, ‘Other provisions’. The Group may and Ventolin. The Group exclusively licenses the patent from 3M
become involved in significant legal proceedings in respect of and has the first right to enforce and defend it. The patent, which
which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the expected expires on 1 December 2021, is listed in the Orange Book. The
financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of Group filed a Patent Owner’s Preliminary Response opposing the
the proceedings. In these cases, appropriate disclosures about institution of the IPR on 6 January 2015. A decision on institution is
such cases would be included, but no provision would be made. due by 6 April 2016. The patent that Mylan has challenged is just
With respect to each of the legal proceedings described below, one of a number of patents covering Advair, Flovent and Ventolin
other than those for which a provision has been made, the Group and their use in HFA metered dose inhalers.
is unable to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial Men B vaccines/Bexsero
effect at this stage. The Group does not believe that information Following its acquisition of the Novartis Vaccine business, the
about the amount sought by the plaintiffs, if that is known, would Group has taken over litigation originally filed by Novartis against
be meaningful with respect to those legal proceedings. This is due Pfizer, Inc. (Pfizer) in the UK, Italy and the United States related
to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the stage of to meningococcal B (Men B) vaccines. On 18 February 2015,
proceedings, the entitlement of parties to appeal a decision and Novartis filed suit against Pfizer in the UK High Court (Patents
clarity as to theories of liability, damages and governing law. Court) for a declaration that a European patent owned by Pfizer
Intellectual property claims include challenges to the validity and was not infringed by Bexsero and was invalid. The Group assumed
enforceability of the Group’s patents on various products or responsibility for this matter on 27 April 2015. Pfizer filed a
processes as well as assertions of non-infringement of those Statement of Defence on 27 May 2015 and counterclaimed for
patents. A loss in any of these cases could result in loss of patent infringement. Trial in the matter commenced on 7 March 2016.
protection for the product at issue. The consequences of any such On 18 February 2015, Novartis filed suit against Pfizer in the
loss could be a significant decrease in sales of that product and Court of Rome for a declaration that a European patent owned by
could materially affect future results of operations for the Group. Pfizer was not infringed by Bexsero and was invalid. The Group
Legal expenses incurred and provisions related to legal claims has assumed responsibility for this matter. The Group is also
are charged to selling, general and administration costs. Provisions prosecuting a lawsuit against Pfizer, originally filed by Novartis,
are made, after taking appropriate legal and other specialist for a declaration that a European patent issued to Pfizer related
advice, where an outflow of resources is considered probable to meningitis B vaccines is not infringed by Bexsero.
and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of the On 18 February 2015, Novartis filed suit against Pfizer in the
dispute. For certain product liability claims, the Group will make US District Court for the District of New Jersey for patent
a provision where there is sufficient history of claims made and infringement. The complaint asserts six patents against Pfizer,
settlements to enable management to make a reliable estimate of alleging that Pfizer’s sale of Trumenba infringes those patents.
the provision required to cover unasserted claims. At 31 December Trumenba is indicated for active immunization to prevent invasive
2015, the Group’s aggregate provision for legal and other disputes disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B. On
(not including tax matters described in Note 14, ‘Taxation’) was 27 April 2015, the Group filed a First Amended Complaint against
£0.4 billion. The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the Pfizer reasserting the six patents originally asserted by Novartis,
amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation but also asserting one additional recently-granted patent.
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations. Infringement contentions were served by the Group on 29 October
The Group’s position could change over time, and, therefore, 2015; Pfizer served non-infringement and invalidity contentions on
there can be no assurance that any losses that result from the 18 December 2015. The Group responded to Pfizer’s invalidity
outcome of any legal proceedings will not exceed by a material contentions on 5 February 2016. No dates have been set for
amount the amount of the provisions reported in the Group’s summary judgment motions or trial.
financial statements. If this were to happen, it could have a material
adverse impact on the results of operations of the Group in the
reporting period in which the judgments are incurred or the
settlements entered into. The most significant of these matters
are described below.GSK Annual Report 2015 207
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
45 Legal proceedings continued In May 2015, Mylan filed an action in the UK Patents Court
alleging that the patent covering the combination of lamivudine and
Coreg CR abacavir for Kivexa is invalid. They also allege that the SPC based
Mylan sent a Paragraph IV certification, dated 26 August 2015, upon the patent is invalid because it was not the first marketing
to the Group and Flamel Ireland Ltd. (Flamel) stating that it had authorisation for the combination, alleging instead that the prior
submitted an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) to the approval of Trizivir was the first. Trial is scheduled for May 2016.
US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) seeking approval of a In addition, Mylan has challenged the combination patent and
generic version of Coreg CR. The notice asserted that the patents associated SPC in France, Italy and Portugal. No trial dates have
listed in the Orange Book for Coreg CR were either invalid or not been set in these jurisdictions.
infringed by Mylan’s product. On 9 October 2015, Flamel filed a
Lexiva
civil complaint in the US District Court for the Northern District of
West Virginia alleging that Mylan’s product infringes Flamel’s On 10 December 2014, Lupin filed a petition with the USPTO for
Orange Book-listed extended release formulation patent which an IPR alleging that the patent covering the active ingredient for
expires 11 March 2026. The Group is the exclusive licensee of this Lexiva is invalid. ViiV Healthcare filed a Patent Owner’s Preliminary
patent for Coreg CR. Mylan answered on 18 December 2015, Response opposing the petition on 12 April 2015. On 9 July 2015,
asserting that Flamel’s patent was invalid or not infringed. Mylan the USPTO granted in-part and denied in-part the petition for an
also filed a third party complaint against the Group requesting a IPR. Significantly, the USPTO denied the petition for the basic
declaration that the Group’s patent on carvedilol phosphate compound claims covering Lexiva, while granting the petition for
hemihydrate is invalid or not infringed. A scheduling conference other claims in the patent. On 24 July 2015, Lupin requested
has been set for 12 May 2016. reconsideration of the decision not to initiate review of the claims
specifically covering Lexiva. On 14 October 2015, ViiV Healthcare
Epzicom/Kivexa/Trizivir requested adverse judgment as to the claims upon which review
On 6 February 2014, ViiV Healthcare received notice that Lupin was granted (effectively cancelling those claims). On 2 November
Limited (Lupin) had filed an ANDA containing a Paragraph IV 2015, the USPTO denied Lupin’s motion for reconsideration and,
certification for Epzicom, alleging that the three patents listed in on 3 November 2015, the USPTO cancelled the requested claims
the Orange Book for Epzicom are either invalid, unenforceable or and terminated the IPR, leaving the claims covering Lexiva intact.
not infringed. ViiV Healthcare filed suit against Lupin on 3 March On 4 February 2016, Lupin filed a new petition for an IPR on the
2014, alleging infringement of both the patent covering the remaining claims. A Patent Owner’s Preliminary Response is due
combination of lamivudine and abacavir and the patent covering 11 May 2016.
the hemisulfate salt of abacavir. ViiV Healthcare settled with Lupin
Product liability
on 22 June 2015, and the case was dismissed on 7 August 2015.
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the
On 2 June 2014, Apotex filed a Petition requesting an Inter Partes development of potential products to determine the safety and
Review (IPR) of the combination patent covering Epzicom and efficacy of products for use by humans following approval by
Trizivir. The USPTO granted the petition on 8 December 2014 regulatory bodies. Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and
which initiated the IPR. On 8 January 2015, Teva filed a petition vaccines are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated safety
with the USPTO to join the proceeding. ViiV Healthcare filed an issues may become, or be claimed by some to be, evident. The
opposition to Teva’s joinder motion on 3 April 2015, and Teva’s Group is currently a defendant in a number of product liability
motion to join was denied on 25 June 2015. On 29 July 2015, lawsuits related to the Group’s Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and
ViiV Healthcare and Apotex settled the case, and the USPTO Consumer Healthcare products. The most significant of these
terminated the IPR on 3 August 2015. matters are described below.
Teva Canada and Apotex each filed Notices of Allegation The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the
challenging patents for Kivexa (lamivudine/abacavir) listed on expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this category
the Canadian Patent Register. ViiV Healthcare filed suit for and has included a provision, as appropriate, for the matters below
infringement against Teva on 12 September 2013 under the in the provision for legal and other disputes. Matters for which the
patents covering abacavir hemisulfate and the combination of Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, ‘Other
lamivudine and abacavir. ViiV Healthcare filed suit against Apotex provisions’.
on 31 January 2014 under the patent covering abacavir hemisulfate
and on 14 March 2014 for infringement of the patent covering the
combination of lamivudine and abacavir. ViiV Healthcare settled
the case against Teva on 24 April 2015 and against Apotex on
29 July 2015.
Teva also challenged the claims of the combination patent covering
Kivexa in Germany, France, Italy and the United Kingdom. The
combination patent expires across Europe in 2016. In addition,
ViiV Healthcare has a corresponding Supplementary Protection
Certificate (SPC) for Kivexa that does not expire until late 2019.
Teva also challenged the validity of the SPC. ViiV Healthcare
reached a settlement with Teva in May 2015 and the litigation
was terminated.208 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
& remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements
continued
45 Legal proceedings continued • Acts of violence
As of February 2016, there were six pending matters concerning
Avandia allegations that patients who took paroxetine or Paxil committed
The Group has been named in product liability lawsuits on behalf or attempted to commit suicide or acts of violence. Trial on one
of individuals asserting personal injury claims arising out of the use of these cases is scheduled for 19 September 2016.
of Avandia. The federal cases filed against the Group are part of a
multi-district litigation proceeding pending in the US District Court • Discontinuation
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (the ‘MDL Court’). Cases In the UK, in late 2010, due to poor prospects of success,
have also been filed in a number of state courts. public funding of Seroxat claimants who had alleged withdrawal
reactions was ceased. The majority of the claimants discontinued
As of February 2016, the Group has reached agreements to settle their claims. In 2011, about 120 claimants appealed the decision
the substantial majority of federal and state cases pending in the to the Special Cases Review Panel. The Special Cases Review
US. Fifteen purported class actions on Avandia are pending in Panel denied the appeal, and the public funding certificate was
Canada. discharged by the Legal Aid Agency on 29 January 2015. One
There are four purported class actions seeking economic damages hundred and three cases remain. These were the subject of a
on behalf of third party payers (TPPs) asserting claims arising hearing held on 14 December 2015. The judgement from the
under various state and federal laws, including the Racketeer hearing was published on 4 February 2016 and allowed the
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), state unfair remaining claims to continue under court management. A further
trade practices and/or consumer protection laws. The MDL Court case management conference is expected by the summer.
has consolidated these four actions for pre-trial proceedings, and Zofran
has appointed a Plaintiffs Steering Committee. The Group is filing Plaintiffs allege that their children suffered birth defects as a result
a petition for writ of certiorari in the United States Supreme Court of the mothers’ ingestion of Zofran and/or generic ondansetron for
seeking review of the Third Circuit’s decision that the TPPs state pregnancy-related nausea and vomiting. Plaintiffs assert that the
a valid cause of action. Group sold Zofran knowing it was unsafe for pregnant women,
The sole remaining consumer class action, brought on behalf of failed to warn of the risks, and illegally marketed Zofran “off-label”
Missouri residents, was dismissed by the MDL Court; the Third for use by pregnant women. As of February 2016, the Group is
Circuit has affirmed the MDL’s decision dismissing the action. a defendant in 226 personal injury lawsuits brought on behalf of
As a result, no consumer class actions remain. 236 individual plaintiffs in the US. All 221 federal cases are part
of a multi-district litigation proceeding (MDL) in the District of
Seroxat/Paxil and Paxil CR Massachusetts. The Group is also a defendant in four proposed
The Group has received numerous lawsuits and claims alleging class actions in Canada, which are in their early stages. Class
that use of Paxil (paroxetine) has caused a variety of injuries. certification issues in these cases have not yet been addressed.
Most of these lawsuits contain one or more of the following On 27 January 2016, the MDL court issued an order denying the
allegations: (i) that use of Paxil during pregnancy caused Group’s motion to dismiss all claims of the grounds that they are
congenital malformations or persistent pulmonary hypertension; preempted under federal law. The Group may renew the motion at
(ii) that Paxil treatment caused patients to commit suicidal or a later date. The MDL continues with monthly status conferences
violent acts; and (iii) that the Group failed to warn that patients where issues such as the sufficiency of the pleadings and the
could experience certain symptoms on discontinuing Paxil scope of discovery will be addressed.
treatment.
• Pregnancy
The Group has reached agreements to settle the majority of the
US claims relating to the use of Paxil during pregnancy as of
February 2016, but a number of claims related to use during
pregnancy are still pending in various courts in the US. Other
matters have been dismissed without payment. Currently, there
are twelve trials scheduled in 2016.
There are two proposed, and one certified, class actions in
Canada. The action that has been certified as a national class
action is in British Columbia and relates to cardiovascular defects.
An appeal from that certification decision was dismissed in
October 2013, and the case is scheduled to be tried in October
2016.GSK Annual Report 2015 209
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
45 Legal proceedings Average wholesale price
continued
State Attorneys General in Wisconsin and Illinois have filed suit
Sales and marketing and regulation against the Group and a number of other pharmaceutical
The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the companies claiming damages and restitution due to average
expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this category, wholesale price (AWP) and/or wholesale acquisition cost (WAC)
and has included a provision for such matters in the provision for price reporting for pharmaceutical products covered by the states’
legal and other disputes, except as noted below. Matters for which Medicaid programmes. These cases allege that the Group
the Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, ‘Other reported or caused to be reported false AWP and WAC prices,
provisions’. which, in turn, allegedly caused state Medicaid agencies to
SEC/DOJ and SFO Anti-corruption enquiries reimburse providers more money for covered medicines than
The US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the US the agencies intended. The states have sought recovery on behalf
Department of Justice (DOJ) initiated an industry-wide enquiry in of the states as payers and, in some cases, on behalf of in-state
2010 into whether pharmaceutical companies may have engaged in patients as consumers. The Group has reached a settlement
violations of the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) relating with the State of Wisconsin resolving all claims in the matter.
to the sale of pharmaceuticals, including in Argentina, Brazil, The Illinois case is ongoing, and no trial date has yet been set.
Canada, China, Germany, Italy, Poland, Russia and Saudi Arabia. Cidra third-party payer litigation
The Group is one of the companies that has been asked to respond On 25 July 2013, a number of major US healthcare insurers
to this enquiry and is cooperating with the SEC and DOJ. The filed suit against the Group in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Group has informed the DOJ and SEC about the investigation of its County Court of Common Pleas seeking compensation for
China operations by the Chinese government that was initiated in reimbursements they made for medicines manufactured at
2013 and the outcome of that investigation. The Group also has the Group’s former Cidra plant in Puerto Rico. These insurers
briefed the DOJ and SEC regarding other countries and issues. claim that the Group knowingly and illegally marketed and sold
The Group also has advised the UK Serious Fraud Office (SFO) adulterated drugs manufactured under conditions non-compliant
regarding the investigation of its China operations by the Chinese with cGMP (current good manufacturing practices) and that they,
government and the outcome of that investigation. The SFO as third-party insurers, were unlawfully induced to pay for them.
has requested information from the Group on its commercial The suit alleges both US federal and various state law causes of
operations in a number of countries. On 27 May 2014, the action.
SFO informed the Group that it had formally opened a criminal The case had been stayed pending the decision of the US Court
investigation into the Group’s practices. The Group is responding of Appeals for the Third Circuit on an overlapping, potentially
to the SFO’s requests. The Group is unable to make a reliable dispositive issue in the Group’s third-party payer litigation
estimate of the expected financial effect of these investigations, regarding Avandia. As a result of the Third Circuit’s denial of
and no provision has been made for them. the Group’s petition, the judge in this litigation has lifted the stay.
US Vaccines subpoena The parties have filed supplemental briefings on the Group’s
On 25 February 2016, the Group received a subpoena from the motion to dismiss and await a ruling from the court. The Group
US Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York has made no provision for this matter.
requesting documents relating to the Group’s Vaccines business. Anti-trust/competition
The Group is responding to the subpoena. The Group is unable The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the
to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect of this expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this category
matter, and no provision has been made for it. and has included a provision for such matters in the provision for
US subpoena relating to Imitrex and Amerge legal and other disputes, except as noted below. Matters for which
On 7 March 2016, the Group received a subpoena from the US the Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, ‘Other
Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York requesting provisions’.
documents relating to the Group’s US contracts for Imitrex and UK Competition and Markets Authority investigation
Amerge. The Group is responding to the subpoena. The Group is On 12 February 2016, the UK Competition and Markets Authority
unable to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect (CMA) issued a decision fining the Group and two other
of this matter, and no provision has been made for it. pharmaceutical companies for infringement of the Competition
Avandia Act. The CMA imposed a fine of £37.6 million on the Group, as
The Group is defending an action by the County of Santa Clara, well as fines totalling £7.4 million against the other companies.
California, which was brought under California’s consumer This relates to agreements to settle patent disputes between the
protection laws seeking civil penalties and restitution as a result Group and potential suppliers of generic paroxetine formulations,
of the Group’s marketing of Avandia. The Group has filed a number entered between 2001 and 2003. The Group terminated the
of dispositive motions which are pending before the MDL Court. agreements at issue in 2004. The Group believes it has strong
The County of Santa Clara recently has filed a motion to dismiss arguments to defend its actions and is currently examining the
the action from federal court for lack of federal jurisdiction. This CMA’s finding with its legal advisors with a view to appeal to the
motion has been briefed and argued by the parties. Competition Appeal Tribunal such that the fine is overturned or
substantially reduced. Accordingly no provision has been made
for this matter.210 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
45 Legal proceedings continued In addition to the private litigant suits, on 12 December 2011, the
US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filed a formal
Lamictal complaint against Stiefel and Charles Stiefel in the US District
Purported classes of direct and indirect purchasers filed suit in Court for the District of Florida alleging that Stiefel and its
the US District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging that principals violated federal securities laws by inducing Stiefel
the Group and Teva Pharmaceuticals unlawfully conspired to delay employees to sell their shares in the employee stock plan back to
generic competition for Lamictal, resulting in overcharges to the the company at a greatly undervalued price and without disclosing
purchasers, by entering into an allegedly anti-competitive reverse to employees that the company was about to be sold. The case
payment settlement to resolve patent infringement litigation. A had been stayed but was returned to active status in early summer
separate count accuses the Group of monopolising the market. 2015. On 30 November 2015, the court entered orders asking the
On 26 June 2015, the Court of Appeals reversed the trial court’s parties to rebrief their summary judgment motions and setting a
decision to dismiss the case and remanded the action back to the pretrial conference for August 2016. The Group has made a
trial court. On 26 October 2015, the trial court denied the Group’s provision for the Stiefel litigation.
motion for a stay and set a schedule for early dispositive motions
Environmental matters
and discovery. The Group filed a petition for certiorari with the
United States Supreme Court on 19 February 2016. The Group has been notified of its potential responsibility relating
to past operations and its past waste disposal practices at certain
Wellbutrin XL sites, primarily in the US. Some of these matters are the subject of
Plaintiffs claimed antitrust injury related to allegedly sham patent litigation, including proceedings initiated by the US federal or state
litigation filed by Biovail against generic companies pursuing governments for waste disposal, site remediation costs and tort
ANDAs for generic Wellbutrin XL. The Group was named as a actions brought by private parties.
party plaintiff in two patent infringement actions but later withdrew
from those matters. The Group was not a party in the remaining The Group has been advised that it may be a responsible party
two patent infringement actions relating to Wellbutrin XL. Plaintiffs at approximately 21 sites, of which 11 appear on the National
alleged that a conspiracy to delay generic approval existed Priority List created by the Comprehensive Environmental
between Biovail and the Group, but the Court granted summary Response Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund). These
judgment in favour of the Group on those claims. proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous waste
facilities, transporters of waste to the sites and generators of
The sole remaining claim related to plaintiffs’ allegations that the hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites
Group entered into an anti-competitive reverse payment settlement or to reimburse the US Government for cleanup costs. In most
to resolve the patent infringement litigation. The Court granted instances, the Group is involved as an alleged generator of
summary judgment in favour of the Group on all claims, and the hazardous waste.
matter is currently pending appeal before the US Court of Appeals
for the Third Circuit Court. Although Superfund provides that the defendants are jointly
and severally liable for cleanup costs, these proceedings are
Commercial and corporate frequently resolved on the basis of the nature and quantity of
Where the Group is able to make a reliable estimate of the waste disposed of by the generator at the site. The Group’s
expected financial effect, if any, for the matters discussed in this proportionate liability for cleanup costs has been substantially
category, it has included a provision in respect of such matters in determined for 18 of the sites referred to above.
the provision for legal and other disputes as set out in Note 29,
‘Other provisions’. The Group’s potential liability varies greatly from site to site.
While the cost of investigation, study and remediation at such
Securities/ERISA class actions – Stiefel sites could, over time, be significant, the Group routinely accrues
There are currently three outstanding lawsuits brought by former amounts related to its share of the liability for such matters.
Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. (Stiefel) employees alleging that Stiefel
and its officers and directors violated the US Employee Retirement
Income Security Act (ERISA) and federal and state securities laws
by inducing Stiefel employees to sell their shares in the employee
stock plan back to Stiefel at a greatly undervalued price and
without disclosing to employees that Stiefel was about to be
sold to the Group.
The Fried case is currently on appeal to the US Court of Appeals
for the Eleventh Circuit with oral argument having taken place in
February 2016. Stiefel won a complete defence verdict in this
matter at a jury trial in federal court in Florida in October 2013 and
the plaintiff appealed. Trial of a second Florida case has been
stayed pending resolution of the Fried matter. Discovery also
continues in a case pending in New York federal court.GSK Annual Report 2015 211
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
prepared under UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’)
Directors’ statement of responsibilities Disclosure of information to auditors
in relation to the company’s financial The Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report have each
confirmed that:
statements
• so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information
The Directors are responsible for preparing the parent company, of which the company’s auditors are unaware; and
GlaxoSmithKline plc, financial statements and the Remuneration
• he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have
report in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors auditors are aware of that information.
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards and
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
applicable law (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice). Under company law the Directors must not approve the Going concern basis
parent company financial statements unless they are satisfied that Having assessed the principal risks and other matters considered
they give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial in connection with the viability statement, the Directors considered
position and profit or loss of the company for that period. it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in
preparing the financial statements.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required
to: The UK Corporate Governance Code
The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
principles and complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate
consistently;
Governance Code maintained by the Financial Reporting Council,
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable as described in the Corporate Governance section on pages 80
and prudent; to 101. The Board further considers that the Annual Report, taken
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the
• state with regard to the parent company financial statements
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s
that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed,
position and performance, business model and strategy.
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in
the parent company financial statements; As required by the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules,
the auditors have considered the Directors’ statement of
• prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis
compliance in relation to those points of the UK Corporate
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue
Governance Code which are specified for their review.
in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the company and to enable them to ensure that Philip Hampton
the parent company financial statements and Remuneration report Chairman
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible 16 March 2016
for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.
The parent company financial statements for the year ended
31 December 2015, comprising the balance sheet for the year
ended 31 December 2015 and supporting notes, are set out
on pages 213 to 216 of this report.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the parent
company financial statements are set out in the Independent
Auditors’ report on page 212.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
are included in the Annual Report, which is published in printed
form and made available on our website. The Directors are
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report
on our website in accordance with UK legislation governing the
preparation and dissemination of financial statements. Access to
the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable
legislation may be different.
The Strategic Report and risk sections of the Annual Report, which
represent the management report, include a fair review of the
development and performance of the business and the position
of the company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.212 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Independent Auditors’ report
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
Report on the parent company financial Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
statements Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration
Our Opinion specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report
In our opinion, GlaxoSmithKline plc’s parent company financial arising from this responsibility.
statements (the “financial statements”):
• give a true and fair view of the state of the parent company’s Responsibilities for the financial statements
affairs at 31 December 2015; and the audit
• have been properly prepared in accordance with United
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and Our responsibilities and those of the directors
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements As explained more fully in the Directors’ statement of
of the Companies Act 2006. responsibilities set out on page 211, the directors are responsible
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being
What we have audited
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report,
comprise: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs
• the Company balance sheet at 31 December 2015; (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the
• the Company statement of changes in equity for the year then
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
ended; and
• the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume
in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom
statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial
this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where
statements and are identified as audited. The financial reporting
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial
statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting What an audit of financial statements involves
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland). An
Practice), including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”. audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance
Other required reporting
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement,
whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of:
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion • whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied
and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the and adequately disclosed;
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the • the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made
financial statements. by the directors; and
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting • the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland)
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors’
(“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”) we are required to report to you if, in
judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements,
our opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited
financial statements; or We test and examine information, using sampling and other
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain
in the course of performing our audit; or audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls,
• otherwise misleading. substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the
Adequacy of accounting records and information and
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is
explanations received
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the
you if, in our opinion:
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements
• we have not received all the information and explanations we or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent
Other matter
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of
received from branches not visited by us; or
GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December 2015.
• the financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with The company has passed a resolution in accordance with section
the accounting records and returns. 506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory auditor’s
name should not be stated.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the London
Companies Act 2006. 16 March 2016GSK Annual Report 2015 213
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Company balance sheet – UK GAAP (including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’)
at 31 December 2015
2015 2014
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets – investments F 20,096 19,691
Current assets:
Trade and other receivables G 6,635 10,900
Cash at bank 2 2
Total current assets 6,637 10,902
Trade and other payables H (671) (1,799)
Net current assets 5,966 9,103
Total assets less current liabilities 26,062 28,794
Provisions I (40) (25)
Other non-current liabilities J (398) –
Net assets 25,624 28,769
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital K 1,340 1,339
Share premium account K 2,831 2,759
Other reserves 1,420 1,420
Retained earnings L 20,033 23,251
Equity shareholders’ funds 25,624 28,769
The financial statements on pages 213 to 216 were approved by the Board on 16 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by
Philip Hampton
Chairman
GlaxoSmithKline plc
Registered number: 3888792
Company statement of changes in equity
Share
Share premium Other Retained
capital account reserves earnings Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2014 1,336 2,595 1,420 17,179 22,530
Profit attributable to shareholders – – – 10,003 10,003
Dividends to shareholders – – – (3,843) (3,843)
Shares issued under employee share schemes 3 164 – – 167
Shares purchased and held as Treasury shares – – – (238) (238)
Treasury shares transferred to the ESOT held by a subsidiary company – – – 150 150
At 31 December 2014 1,339 2,759 1,420 23,251 28,769
Profit attributable to shareholders – – – 656 656
Dividends to shareholders – – – (3,874) (3,874)
Shares issued under employee share schemes 1 72 – – 73
At 31 December 2015 1,340 2,831 1,420 20,033 25,624214 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the company balance sheet – B) Accounting policies
UK GAAP (including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Foreign currency transactions
Disclosure Framework’) Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate
ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign currency assets and
A) Presentation of the financial statements liabilities are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance
sheet date.
Description of business
GlaxoSmithKline plc is the parent company of GSK, a major global Dividends paid and received
healthcare group which is engaged in the creation and discovery, Dividends paid and received are included in the financial
development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical statements in the period in which the related dividends are
products, including vaccines, over-the-counter (OTC) medicines actually paid or received.
and health-related consumer products.
Expenditure
Preparation of financial statements Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services
The financial statements, which are prepared using the historical received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
cost convention and on a going concern basis, are prepared in Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability
accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation
Disclosure Framework’ and with UK accounting presentation as at can be reliably estimated.
31 December 2015, with comparative figures as at 31 December
Investments in subsidiary companies
2014. There were no comparative figures that required changing
Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any
as a result of the current year adoption of FRS101.
provision for impairment.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the
Impairment of investments
income statement of the company is not presented in this Annual
The carrying value of investments are reviewed for impairment
Report.
when there is an indication that the investment might be impaired.
The company is included in the Group financial statements of Any provision resulting from an impairment review is charged to
GlaxoSmithKline plc, which are publicly available. the income statement in the year concerned.
The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have Share based payments
been applied in the preparation of these financial statements, The issuance by the company to its subsidiaries of a grant over
in accordance with FRS 101: the company’s shares, represents additional capital contributions
by the company in its subsidiaries. An additional investment in
• Paragraphs 45(b) and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, ‘Share-based
subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase in shareholders’
payment’
equity. The additional capital contribution is based on the fair value
• IFRS 7, ‘Financial Instruments - Disclosures’
of the grant issued, allocated over the underlying grant’s vesting
• Paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’ period.
• Paragraph 38 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’
Taxation
comparative information requirements in respect of
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid
paragraph 79(a) (iv) of IAS 1
applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively
• Paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38(A), 38 (B to D), 40 (A to D),
enacted by the balance sheet date.
111 and 134 to 136 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial
statements’ Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on
• IAS 7, ‘Statement of cash flows’ temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
• Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8, ‘Accounting policies, changes
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that they are
in accounting estimates and errors’
considered recoverable against future taxable profits.
• Paragraph 17 of IAS 24, ‘Related party disclosures’ and
the further requirement in IAS 24 to disclose related party Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected
transactions entered into between two or more members of to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences are
a Group. expected to be realised or settled. Deferred tax liabilities and
Accounting convention and standards assets are not discounted.
The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical Financial guarantees
cost convention and complies with applicable UK accounting Liabilities relating to guarantees issued by the company on behalf
standards. of its subsidiaries are initially recognised at fair value and
Accounting principles and policies amortised over the life of the guarantee.
The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with generally Legal and other disputes
accepted accounting principles requires management to make The company provides for anticipated settlement costs where
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and estimate may be made of the likely outcome of the dispute and
liabilities at the date of the balance sheet. Actual amounts could legal and other expenses arising from claims against the company.
differ from those estimates. At 31 December 2015 provisions for legal and other disputes
The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the amounted to £40 million (2014 – £25 million).
company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and
described in Note B.GSK Annual Report 2015 215
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP (including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure
Framework’) continued
C) Key accounting judgements and estimates Contingent consideration
Any contingent consideration included in the consideration
Legal and other disputes
payable for a business combination is recorded at fair value at
The company provides for anticipated settlement costs where
the date of acquisition. These fair values are generally based
an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable
on risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted using appropriate
estimate may be made of the likely outcome of the dispute and
interest rates. At 31 December 2015, the liability for contingent
legal and other expenses arising from claims against the company.
consideration amounted to £405 million on the acquisition of the
These estimates take into account the specific circumstances
Vaccines business from Novartis in 2015.
of each dispute and relevant external advice, are inherently
judgmental and could change substantially over time as new facts The assumptions relating to future cash flows and discount rates
emerge and each dispute progresses. are based on business forecasts and are therefore inherently
judgemental. Future events could cause the assumptions used
The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have
in these projections to change with a consequent adverse effect
established provisions after taking into account the relevant facts
on the future results of the company.
and circumstances of each matter and in accordance with
accounting requirements. At 31 December 2015 provisions for D) O perating profit
legal and other disputes amounted to £40 million (2014 –
A fee of £12,053 (2014 – £11,523) relating to the audit of the
£25 million).
company has been charged in operating profit.
The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts
E) Dividends
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations. The directors declared four interim dividends resulting in a
The position could change over time and, therefore, there can be no dividend for the year of 80 pence, in line with the dividend for
assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any legal 2014. A special dividend of 20 pence has also been declared in
proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions reported the year. For further details, see Note 16 to the Group financial
in the company’s financial statements by a material amount. statements, ‘Dividends’.
F) Fixed assets – investments
2015 2014
£m £m
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited 613 613
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited 18 18
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited 17,888 17,888
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited 33 33
18,552 18,552
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 1,139 1,139
Contribution relating to contingent consideration 405 –
20,096 19,691
G) Trade and other receivables
2015 2014
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
UK Corporation tax recoverable 201 205
Other receivables 41 3
Deferred tax recoverable – 205
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 5,977 10,055
6,219 10,468
Amounts due after more than one year:
Amounts due by Group undertakings 416 432
6,635 10,900
The deferred tax balance of £205 million reported in 2014 and reversed in 2015 arose as a result of the recognition of a deferred tax
asset on tax losses expected to be used following completion of the Novartis transaction on 2 March 2015.216 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP (including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure
Framework’) continued
H) Trade and other payables
2015 2014
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Other creditors 478 497
Contingent consideration payable 7 –
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 186 1,302
671 1,799
The company has guaranteed debt issued by its subsidiary companies from one of which it receives an annual fee. In aggregate, the
company has outstanding guarantees over £16.1 billion of debt instruments. The amounts due from the subsidiary company in relation
to these guarantee fees will be recovered over the life of the bonds and are disclosed within ‘Trade and other receivables’ (see Note G).
I) Provisions
2015 2014
£m £m
At 1 January 25 –
Charge for the year 139 148
Utilised (127) (138)
Other movements 3 15
At 31 December 40 25
The provisions relate to a number of legal and other disputes in which the company is currently involved.
J) Other non-current liabilities
2015 2014
£m £m
Contingent consideration payable 398 –
398 –
The contingent consideration relates to the amount payable for the acquisition in 2015 of the Novartis Vaccines portfolio. The current
year liability is included within ‘Trade and other payables’.
K) Called up share capital and share premium account
Share
premium
Ordinary Shares of 25p each
account
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31 December 2014 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2015 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2014 5,342,206,696 1,336 2,595
Issued under employee share schemes 13,090,536 3 164
At 31 December 2014 5,355,297,232 1,339 2,759
Issued under employee share schemes 6,010,415 1 72
At 31 December 2015 5,361,307,647 1,340 2,831
31 December 31 December
2015 2014
000 000
Number of shares issuable under outstanding options 99,833 88,801
Number of unissued shares not under option 4,538,859 4,555,902
At 31 December 2015, of the issued share capital, 29,801,412 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 491,515,950 shares were held as
Treasury shares and 4,839,990,285 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market values
of the shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 42, ‘Employee share schemes’.
L) Reserves
The profit of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year was £656 million (2014 – £10,003 million), which after dividends of £3,874 million
(2014 – £3,843 million), gave a retained loss of £3,218 million (2014 – £6,160 million profit). No Treasury shares were purchased in
the year (2014 – £238 million) and no Treasury shares were transferred to a subsidiary (2014 – £150 million). At 31 December 2015,
the retained earnings stood at £20,033 million (2014 – £23,251 million), of which £4,096 million was unrealised (2014 – £4,096 million).
M) Group companies
See pages 250 to 258 for a complete list of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, which form part of these financial statements.GSK Annual Report 2015 217
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Investor
information
In this section
Quarterly trend 218
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover 220
Five year record 222
Product development pipeline 225
Products, competition and
intellectual property 228
Risk factors 231
Share capital and share price 241
Dividends 243
Financial calendar 243
Annual General Meeting 2016 243
Tax information for shareholders 244
Shareholder services and contacts 246
US law and regulation 248
Group companies 250
Glossary of terms 259
GSK Annual Report 2015 217218 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial record
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis of the Group results is provided by quarter in Sterling for the financial year 2015.
Income statement – total 12 months 2015 Q4 2015
Reported Pro-forma Reported Pro-forma
£m CER% £% CER% £m CER% £% CER%
Turnover – Pharmaceuticals 14,166 (7) (8) (1) 3,763 (9) (11) (1)
– Vaccines 3,657 19 16 3 963 20 15 (1)
– Consumer Healthcare 6,028 44 40 6 1,562 47 41 5
23,851 6 4 1 6,288 5 2 –
Corporate and other unallocated turnover 72 (9) (17) (25) (2) >(100) >(100) >(100)
Total turnover 23,923 6 4 1 6,286 4 2 –
Cost of sales (8,853) 24 21 (2,541) 29 25
Selling, general and administration (9,232) 13 12 (2,498) 15 13
Research and development (3,560) 2 3 (1,054) 9 8
Royalty income 329 8 6 91 39 36
Other operating income 7,715 (538)
Operating profit/(loss) 10,322 >100 >100 (254) >(100) >(100)
Net finance costs (653) (158)
Profit/(loss) on disposal of interest in associates
and joint ventures 843 1
Share of after tax profits/(losses) of associates
and joint ventures 14 (5)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 10,526 >100 >100 (416) >(100) >(100)
Taxation (2,154) (12)
Tax rate % 20.5% (2.9)%
Profit/(loss) after taxation for the period 8,372 >100 >100 (428) >(100) >(100)
(Loss)/profit attributable to non-controlling interests (50) (74)
Profit/(loss) attributable to shareholders 8,422 (354)
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (pence) 174.3 >100 >100 (7.3)p >(100) >(100)
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share (pence) 172.3 (7.3)p
Income statement – core
Total turnover 23,923 6 4 1 6,286 4 2 –
Cost of sales (7,520) 18 15 5 (2,066) 18 15 3
Selling, general and administration (7,907) 12 12 4 (2,108) 15 13 5
Research and development (3,096) (2) (1) (5) (846) 3 3 (1)
Royalty income 329 8 6 (4) 91 39 36 39
Operating profit 5,729 (9) (13) (3) 1,357 (18) (23) (10)
Net finance costs (636) (154)
Share of after tax (losses)/profits of associates
and joint ventures (2) (5)
Profit before taxation 5,091 (10) (15) 1,198 (20) (26)
Taxation (993) (215)
Tax rate % 19.5% 17.9%
Profit after taxation for the period 4,098 (10) (15) 983 (22) (28)
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 440 109
Profit attributable to shareholders 3,658 874
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 75.7p (15) (21) 18.1p (28) (34)
The calculation of core results is described on page 54.GSK Annual Report 2015 219
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Q3 2015 Q2 2015 Q1 2015
Reported Pro-forma Reported Pro-forma Reported Pro-forma
£m CER% £% CER% £m CER% £% CER% £m CER% £% CER%
3,340 (7) (8) (1) 3,540 (6) (6) 2 3,523 (7) (8) (5)
1,181 32 30 13 814 11 7 (5) 699 10 7 3
1,576 55 48 7 1,509 51 48 6 1,381 24 23 8
6,097 11 8 5 5,863 7 6 2 5,603 1 – (1)
30 27 15 10 25 87 67 87 19 (9) (17) (19)
6,127 11 9 5 5,888 7 6 2 5,622 1 – (1)
(2,204) 24 21 (2,005) 19 16 (2,103) 23 21
(1,968) (1) (2) (2,541) 21 24 (2,225) 14 13
(827) 1 3 (812) (2) – (867) (2) 1
99 – (2) 62 (14) (14) 77 13 10
(202) (257) 8,712
1,025 53 46 335 (61) (71) 9,216 >100 >100
(154) (182) (159)
(2) 1 843
(2) (2) 23
867 69 58 152 (73) (85) 9,923 >100 >100
(220) (37) (1,885)
25.4% 24.3% 19.0%
647 80 68 115 (70) (84) 8,038 >100 >100
109 (34) (51)
538 149 8,089
11.1p 45 32 3.1p (63) (77) 167.8p >100 >100
11.0p 3.1p 166.4p
6,127 11 9 5 5,888 7 6 2 5,622 1 – (1)
(1,936) 22 18 6 (1,779) 18 16 3 (1,739) 13 12 8
(1,842) 26 25 13 (2,091) 7 9 (2) (1,866) 4 3 1
(730) (3) (2) (6) (731) (6) (5) (10) (789) (2) 1 (4)
99 – (2) (11) 62 (14) (14) (33) 77 13 10 5
1,718 (5) (9) – 1,349 3 (4) 14 1,305 (14) (15) (12)
(148) (178) (156)
(2) (2) 7
1,568 (5) (10) 1,169 1 (7) 1,156 (14) (16)
(314) (233) (231)
20.0% 20.0% 20.0%
1,254 (5) (10) 936 4 (5) 925 (12) (13)
141 99 91
1,113 837 834
23.0p (13) (18) 17.3p – (9) 17.3p (16) (18)220 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial record
continued
Pharmaceuticals turnover by therapeutic area 2015
Total US Europe International
2014
2015 (restated) Growth 2015 Growth 2015 Growth 2015 Growth
Therapeutic area/major products £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 5,741 6,168 (7) (7) 2,750 (10) (3) 1,415 (9) (15) 1,576 – (5)
Anoro Ellipta 79 17 >100 >100 56 >100 >100 16 >100 >100 7 >100 >100
Avamys/Veramyst 229 238 3 (4) 25 (26) (19) 66 4 (4) 138 9 –
Flixotide/Flovent 623 702 (12) (11) 379 (19) (13) 92 (1) (10) 152 1 (6)
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 257 67 >100 >100 108 >100 >100 80 >100 >100 69 >100 >100
Seretide/Advair 3,681 4,229 (13) (13) 1,865 (13) (6) 1,014 (18) (24) 802 (8) (12)
Ventolin 620 665 (7) (7) 304 (15) (8) 117 1 (6) 199 – (6)
Other 252 250 6 1 13 >100 >100 30 11 7 209 – (5)
Cardiovascular, metabolic and
urology (CVMU) 858 965 (9) (11) 314 (20) (14) 260 (3) (11) 284 – (7)
Avodart 657 805 (15) (18) 166 (41) (36) 254 (1) (9) 237 (4) (11)
Other 201 160 21 26 148 28 38 6 (46) (54) 47 23 21
Immuno-inflammation 263 214 16 23 242 14 23 15 42 25 6 20 20
Benlysta 230 173 25 33 209 24 34 15 42 25 6 20 20
Other 33 41 (24) (20) 33 (24) (20) – – – – – –
Oncology 255 1,202 (79) (79) 92 (83) (82) 70 (82) (83) 93 (65) (66)
Other pharmaceuticals 2,199 2,390 (4) (8) 188 2 9 596 (2) (10) 1,415 (6) (9)
Dermatology 412 470 (9) (12) 41 (20) (16) 138 (1) (8) 233 (12) (14)
Augmentin 528 573 (2) (8) – (100) (100) 170 (2) (10) 358 (2) (7)
Other anti-bacterials 184 215 (11) (14) 6 – – 51 (8) (16) 127 (12) (14)
Rare diseases 371 417 (6) (11) 47 (33) (30) 122 (1) (9) 202 (1) (6)
Other 704 715 1 (2) 94 76 92 115 1 (9) 495 (6) (9)
Innovative Pharmaceuticals 9,316 10,939 (14) (15) 3,586 (18) (12) 2,356 (16) (23) 3,374 (7) (11)
Established Products 2,528 3,011 (15) (16) 647 (30) (25) 493 (11) (18) 1,388 (8) (10)
Coreg 123 124 (8) (1) 123 (8) (1) – – – – – –
Hepsera 63 85 (27) (26) – – – 1 – – 62 (28) (27)
Imigran/Imitrex 160 172 (5) (7) 76 (11) (8) 56 – (8) 28 4 –
Lamictal 531 531 (1) – 266 (3) 5 96 (2) (9) 169 3 (1)
Lovaza 93 240 (64) (61) 93 (64) (61) – – – – – –
Requip 93 109 (10) (15) 5 (29) (29) 29 (23) (26) 59 – (6)
Serevent 93 108 (14) (14) 43 (7) – 36 (21) (25) 14 (12) (18)
Seroxat/Paxil 165 210 (16) (21) (13) – – 35 (12) (19) 143 (10) (14)
Valtrex 165 154 14 8 20 (27) (23) 24 (4) (11) 121 30 21
Zeffix 134 166 (22) (19) 2 (33) (33) 7 (13) (13) 125 (23) (19)
Other 908 1,112 (16) (18) 32 (63) (60) 209 (16) (22) 667 (11) (13)
Global Pharmaceuticals 11,844 13,950 (14) (15) 4,233 (20) (14) 2,849 (16) (22) 4,762 (7) (11)
HIV 2,322 1,498 54 55 1,301 77 91 716 46 34 305 15 8
Combivir 34 59 (42) (42) 10 (17) (11) 9 (46) (51) 15 (50) (49)
Epzicom/Kivexa 698 768 (7) (9) 258 (14) (7) 304 (1) (9) 136 (5) (12)
Lexiva/Telzir 65 87 (25) (25) 40 (21) (15) 12 (32) (39) 13 (27) (36)
Selzentry 124 136 (8) (9) 60 2 9 48 (10) (18) 16 (26) (30)
Tivicay 588 282 >100 >100 389 79 93 147 >100 >100 52 >100 >100
Triumeq 730 57 >100 >100 510 >100 >100 176 >100 >100 44 >100 >100
Trizivir 26 36 (28) (28) 9 (21) (15) 14 (29) (35) 3 (43) 11
Other 57 73 (19) (22) 25 (27) (24) 6 (36) (45) 26 – (7)
Pharmaceuticals 14,166 15,448 (7) (8) 5,534 (8) (1) 3,565 (8) (15) 5,067 (6) (10)
Vaccines turnover 2015
Total US Europe International
2014
2015 (restated) Growth 2015 Growth 2015 Growth 2015 Growth
Major products £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Bexsero 115 – – – 17 – – 86 – – 12 – –
Boostrix 358 317 12 13 209 18 27 88 23 13 61 (12) (19)
Cervarix 88 118 (20) (25) 3 (50) (50) 37 (15) (23) 48 (21) (24)
Fluarix, FluLaval 268 215 21 25 197 28 38 23 14 5 48 2 (2)
Hepatitis 540 558 (4) (3) 273 7 16 154 (11) (17) 113 (12) (16)
Infanrix, Pediarix 733 828 (9) (11) 269 (17) (10) 332 (2) (10) 132 (9) (17)
Menveo 160 – – – 99 – – 36 – – 25 – –
Rabipur/RabAvert 61 – – – 28 – – 17 – – 16 – –
Rotarix 417 376 14 11 139 47 58 64 3 (4) 214 4 (3)
Synflorix 381 398 5 (4) – – – 39 8 (3) 342 4 (4)
Other 536 349 65 52 24 >100 >100 221 56 44 291 64 48
Vaccines 3,657 3,159 19 16 1,258 24 34 1,097 23 14 1,302 12 4
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.GSK Annual Report 2015 221
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pharmaceuticals turnover by therapeutic area 2014
Total US Europe International
2014 2013 2014 2014 2014
(restated) (restated) Growth (restated) Growth (restated) Growth (restated) Growth
Therapeutic area/major products £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 6,168 7,259 (9) (15) 2,830 (18) (22) 1,673 (3) (7) 1,665 1 (10)
Avamys/Veramyst 238 249 5 (4) 31 (22) (26) 69 4 – 138 13 –
Flixotide/Flovent 702 796 (6) (12) 437 (5) (10) 102 (9) (13) 163 (5) (15)
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 67 8 >100 >100 29 >100 >100 18 – – 20 >100 >100
Seretide/Advair 4,229 5,274 (15) (20) 1,987 (25) (29) 1,330 (5) (9) 912 (1) (12)
Ventolin 665 642 11 4 330 18 13 124 2 (2) 211 6 (5)
Other 267 290 2 (8) 16 >100 >100 30 10 3 221 (4) (15)
Cardiovascular, metabolic and
urology (CVMU) 965 1,073 (3) (10) 366 (16) (20) 293 – (5) 306 12 –
Avodart 805 857 1 (6) 259 (13) (17) 280 8 3 266 10 (2)
Other 160 216 (21) (26) 107 (23) (26) 13 (63) (63) 40 27 11
Immuno-inflammation 214 161 40 33 197 39 32 12 63 50 5 22 24
Benlysta 173 146 25 18 156 22 16 12 63 50 5 22 24
Other 41 15 >100 >100 41 >100 >100 – – – – – –
Oncology 1,202 969 33 24 512 41 34 417 29 23 273 26 10
Other pharmaceuticals 2,390 2,652 (2) (10) 172 (31) (34) 660 (4) (8) 1,558 4 (6)
Dermatology 470 609 (17) (23) 49 (56) (57) 150 (8) (12) 271 (8) (16)
Augmentin 573 630 (2) (9) 1 – – 189 (2) (7) 383 (2) (10)
Other anti-bacterials 215 224 3 (4) 6 (14) (14) 61 (3) (8) 148 6 (2)
Rare diseases 417 495 (8) (16) 67 (38) (41) 134 9 4 216 (3) (15)
Other 715 694 15 4 49 >100 93 126 (12) (17) 540 19 6
Innovative Pharmaceuticals 10,939 12,114 (3) (10) 4,077 (12) (16) 3,055 – (4) 3,807 5 (6)
Established Products 3,011 3,869 (16) (22) 860 (31) (34) 601 (13) (16) 1,550 (7) (16)
Coreg 124 131 (1) (5) 124 (1) (6) – – – – – –
Hepsera 85 96 (5) (11) – – – – – – 85 (6) (12)
Imigran/Imitrex 172 188 (4) (9) 83 5 4 61 2 (3) 28 (28) (37)
Lamictal 531 557 3 (5) 254 (4) (9) 106 1 (4) 171 14 1
Lovaza 240 584 (57) (59) 240 (57) (59) – – – – – –
Requip 109 125 (4) (13) 7 – – 39 (19) (25) 63 6 (7)
Serevent 108 129 (12) (16) 43 (12) (16) 48 (9) (13) 17 (16) (25)
Seroxat/Paxil 210 285 (19) (26) – – – 43 (15) (19) 167 (20) (28)
Valtrex 154 224 (24) (31) 26 (40) (42) 27 (3) (7) 101 (23) (32)
Zeffix 166 182 (3) (9) 3 (79) (79) 8 (25) (33) 155 5 (1)
Other 1,112 1,368 (12) (19) 80 (28) (31) 269 (19) (22) 763 (8) (16)
Global Pharmaceuticals 13,950 15,983 (6) (13) 4,937 (16) (20) 3,656 (2) (6) 5,357 1 (9)
HIV 1,498 1,386 15 8 680 27 21 534 6 2 284 9 (5)
Combivir 59 116 (46) (49) 11 (66) (68) 18 (52) (54) 30 (22) (28)
Epzicom/Kivexa 768 763 8 1 278 8 2 335 7 2 155 9 (5)
Lexiva/Telzir 87 113 (17) (23) 47 (24) (27) 20 (25) (28) 20 14 (3)
Selzentry 136 143 – (5) 55 (4) (8) 58 (3) (7) 23 19 11
Tivicay 282 19 >100 >100 202 >100 >100 56 >100 >100 24 >100 >100
Trizivir 36 97 (61) (63) 11 (81) (82) 22 (28) (31) 3 (38) (45)
Other 130 135 5 (4) 76 55 48 25 (30) (32) 29 (25) (40)
Pharmaceuticals 15,448 17,369 (5) (11) 5,617 (12) (17) 4,190 (1) (5) 5,641 1 (9)
Vaccines turnover 2014
Total US Europe International
2013
2014 (restated) Growth 2014 Growth 2014 Growth 2014 Growth
Major products £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Boostrix 317 288 16 10 164 (6) (11) 78 26 20 75 >100 92
Cervarix 118 172 (26) (31) 6 (14) (14) 48 (16) (21) 64 (32) (38)
Fluarix, FluLaval 215 251 (9) (14) 143 1 (4) 22 (34) (37) 50 (19) (26)
Hepatitis 558 629 (6) (11) 236 (6) (11) 186 (2) (6) 136 (10) (18)
Infanrix, Pediarix 828 862 2 (4) 300 15 9 369 (3) (7) 159 (7) (16)
Rotarix 376 375 7 – 88 (15) (20) 67 19 14 221 16 7
Synflorix 398 405 4 (2) – – – 40 (13) (17) 358 6 0
Other 349 402 (7) (13) 3 >100 >100 154 (6) (10) 192 (9) 17
Vaccines 3,159 3,384 (1) (7) 940 – (5) 964 (2) (7) 1,255 – (8)
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.222 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial record
continued
Five year record
A record of financial performance is provided, analysed in accordance with current reporting practice. The information included in the
Five year record is prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and also with IFRS as issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board.
With effect from 1 January 2015, GSK has reported turnover under four segments: Global Pharmaceuticals, HIV, Vaccines and
Consumer Healthcare. Comparative turnover information in all four years has been restated accordingly. Comparative information has
also been restated to reflect the current breakdown of the group by geographic region.
Comparative information for 2012 and 2013 is also reported including the effect of the divestments completed in 2013. The 2011
information is reported excluding the effects of these divestments.
2014 2013 2012 2011
2015 (restated ) (restated ) (restated) (restated )
Group turnover by geographic region £m £m £m £m £m
US 8,222 7,409 8,695 8,330 8,696
Europe 6,450 6,292 6,681 6,675 8,276
International 9,251 9,305 10,226 10,478 10,415
23,923 23,006 25,602 25,483 27,387
Divestments – – 903 948 –
Total turnover including divestments 23,923 23,006 26,505 26,431 27,387
Group turnover by segment
Global Pharmaceuticals 11,844 13,950 15,983 15,984 16,856
HIV 2,322 1,498 1,386 1,374 1,569
Pharmaceuticals 14,166 15,448 17,369 17,358 18,425
Vaccines 3,657 3,159 3,384 3,296 3,469
Consumer Healthcare 6,028 4,312 4,703 4,722 5,403
Segment turnover 23,851 22,919 25,456 25,376 27,297
Corporate and other unallocated turnover 72 87 146 107 90
23,923 23,006 25,602 25,483 27,387
Divestments completed in 2013 – – 903 948 –
23,923 23,006 26,505 26,431 27,387
Pharmaceuticals turnover by therapeutic area
Respiratory 5,741 6,168 7,259 7,016 6,993
Cardiovascular, Metabolic and urogenital 858 965 1,073 1,144 1,108
Immuno-inflammation 263 214 161 70 15
Oncology 255 1,202 969 798 683
Other pharmaceuticals 2,199 2,390 2,652 2,605 2,732
Established Products 2,528 3,011 3,869 4,351 5,325
Global Pharmaceuticals 11,844 13,950 15,983 15,984 16,856
HIV 2,322 1,498 1,386 1,374 1,569
Pharmaceuticals 14,166 15,448 17,369 17,358 18,425
Vaccine turnover 3,657 3,159 3,384 3,296 3,469
Consumer Healthcare turnover
Wellness 2,970 1,565 1,807 1,941 2,267
Oral care 1,866 1,797 1,884 1,806 1,722
Nutrition 684 633 627 590 1,025
Skin health 508 317 385 385 389
6,028 4,312 4,703 4,722 5,403GSK Annual Report 2015 223
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Five year record continued
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Financial results – total £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 23,923 23,006 26,505 26,431 27,387
Operating profit 10,322 3,597 7,028 7,300 7,734
Profit before taxation 10,526 2,968 6,647 6,600 7,625
Profit after taxation 8,372 2,831 5,628 4,678 5,405
pence pence pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 174.3 57.3 112.5 91.6 103.6
Diluted earnings per share 172.3 56.7 110.5 90.2 102.1
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
millions millions millions millions millions
Weighted average number of shares in issue:
Basic 4,831 4,808 4,831 4,912 5,028
Diluted 4,888 4,865 4,919 4,989 5,099
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Financial results – core £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 23,923 23,006 25,602 25,483 27,387
Operating profit 5,729 6,594 7,771 7,974 8,730
Profit before taxation 5,091 5,978 7,122 7,279 8,038
Profit after taxation 4,098 4,806 5,487 5,511 5,954
pence pence pence pence pence
Core earnings per share 75.7p 95.4 108.4 107.4 114.5
% % % % %
Return on capital employed 152.4 46.6 91.4 84.9 82.3
Return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before taxation as a percentage of average net assets over the year.224 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial record
continued
Five year record continued
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets 36,859 25,973 26,859 27,789 24,921
Current assets 16,587 14,678 15,227 13,692 16,167
Total assets 53,446 40,651 42,086 41,481 41,088
Current liabilities (13,417) (13,295) (13,677) (13,815) (15,010)
Non-current liabilities (31,151) (22,420) (20,597) (20,929) (17,264)
Total liabilities (44,568) (35,715) (34,274) (34,744) (32,274)
Net assets 8,878 4,936 7,812 6,737 8,814
Shareholders’ equity 5,114 4,263 6,997 5,800 8,019
Non-controlling interests 3,764 673 815 937 795
Total equity 8,878 4,936 7,812 6,737 8,814
Number of employees
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
US 14,696 16,579 16,530 17,201 16,707
Europe 43,538 37,899 38,367 38,788 38,696
International 43,021 43,443 44,554 43,499 41,986
101,255 97,921 99,451 99,488 97,389
Manufacturing 38,855 32,171 31,502 31,369 30,664
Selling 39,549 42,785 45,397 45,601 45,155
Administration 11,140 10,630 10,232 9,607 8,883
Research and development 11,711 12,335 12,320 12,911 12,687
101,255 97,921 99,451 99,488 97,389
The geographic distribution of employees in the table above is based on the location of GSK’s subsidiary companies. The number of
employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who are employed
and managed by GSK on a contract basis.
Exchange rates
As a guide to holders of ADS, the following tables set out, for the periods indicated, information on the exchange rate of US dollars for
Sterling as reported by the Bank of England (4pm buying rate).
2015 2014 2013 2012 2011
Average 1.53 1.65 1.56 1.59 1.60
The average rate for the year is calculated as the average of the 4pm buying rates for each day of the year.
2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 2015
Mar Feb Jan Dec Nov Oct Sep
High 1.43 1.46 1.47 1.52 1.54 1.55 1.56
Low 1.39 1.39 1.41 1.47 1.51 1.52 1.51
The 4pm buying rate on 10 March 2016 was £1= US$1.43.GSK Annual Report 2015 225
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pipeline, products and competition
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline
Key
† In-licence or other alliance relationship with third party S Month of first submission
^ ViiV Healthcare, a global specialist HIV company with GSK, BLA Biological Licence Application
Pfizer, Inc. and Shionogi Limited as shareholders, is responsible MAA Marketing Authorisation Application (Europe)
for developing and delivering HIV medicines. NDA New Drug Application (US)
* Also being developed for indications in another therapeutic area Phase I Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted in volunteers
1 Option-based alliance with Ionis Pharmaceuticals Phase II Determination of dose and initial evaluation of efficacy, conducted in a
2 Option-based alliance with Adaptimmune Ltd. small number of patients
3 Option-based alliance with OncoMed Pharmaceuticals Phase III Large comparative study (compound versus placebo and/or established
4 Option-based alliance with Telethon and Ospedale San Raffaele treatment) in patients to establish clinical benefit and safety
5 Option-based alliance with Valneva
MAA and NDA/BLA regulatory review milestones shown in the table below are those that have been achieved. Future filing dates are not included in this list.
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
HIV^ and Infectious Diseases
dolutegravir + HIV integrase inhibitor + non-nucleoside HIV infections – two drug maintenance regimen III
rilpivirine† reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)
3684934 HIV attachment inhibitor HIV infections III
tafenoquine† 8-aminoquinoline Plasmodium vivax malaria III
Relenza i.v.† neuraminidase inhibitor (i.v.) influenza III
cabotegravir HIV integrase inhibitor (long-acting HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis II
parenteral formulation)
cabotegravir + HIV integrase inhibitor + non-nucleoside HIV infections II
rilpivirine† reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)
(long-acting parenteral formulations)
gepotidacin type 2 topoisomerase inhibitor bacterial infections II
(2140944)
danirixin chemokine (C-X-C Motif) receptor 2 influenza* II
(CXCR2) antagonist
3532795 HIV maturation inhibitor HIV infections II
2838232 HIV maturation inhibitor HIV infections I
32288361 HBV antisense oligonucleotide hepatitis B I
33894041 HBV LICA antisense oligonucleotide hepatitis B I
2878175 nonstructural protein 5B (NS5B) hepatitis C I
polymerase inhibitor
Respiratory
fluticasone furoate glucocorticoid agonist + long-acting beta2 chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) III
+ vilanterol† agonist + muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist
+ umeclidinium
mepolizumab interleukin 5 (IL5) monoclonal antibody COPD* III
961081† muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist, beta2 COPD II
agonist (MABA)
961081† muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist, beta2 COPD II
+ fluticasone furoate agonist (MABA) + glucocorticoid agonist
2245035 toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7) agonist asthma II
2269557 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase delta (PI3K(cid:303)) asthma and COPD II
inhibitor
2586881† recombinant human angiotensin converting acute lung injury II
enzyme 2 (rhACE2)
2862277 tumour necrosis factor receptor-1 (TNFR1) acute lung injury II
domain antibody
danirixin chemokine (C-X-C Motif) receptor 2 (CXCR2) COPD* II
antagonist
fluticasone furoate glucocorticoid agonist + long-acting beta2 asthma II
+ vilanterol† agonist + muscarinic acetylcholine
+ umeclidinium antagonist
losmapimod p38 kinase inhibitor COPD* II
mepolizumab interleukin 5 (IL5) monoclonal antibody nasal polyposis* II
mepolizumab interleukin 5 (IL5) monoclonal antibody hypereosinophilic syndrome* II
sirukumab† interleukin 6 (IL6) human monoclonal antibody severe asthma* II
3008348 alpha V beta 6 integrin antagonist idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis I226 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pipeline, products and competition
continued
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Oncology
33777942 NY-ESO-1 autologous engineered sarcoma, multiple myeloma, non-small cell lung II
TCR-T cells (engineered TCR) cancer, melanoma and ovarian cancer
tarextumab3 notch 2/3 monoclonal antibody small cell lung cancer II
brontictuzumab3 notch 1 monoclonal antibody solid tumours and haematological malignancies I
3174998† OX40 agonist monoclonal antibody solid tumours and haematological malignancies I
2879552 lysine-specific demethylase 1 (LSD1) acute myeloid leukemia and small cell lung cancer I
inhibitor
2857916† beta cell maturation antigen antibody multiple myeloma I
drug conjugate
2849330 erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 3 solid tumours I
(ErbB3) monoclonal antibody
2816126 enhancer of zeste homologue2 solid tumours and haematological malignancies I
(EZH2) inhibitor
2636771 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase castration resistant prostate cancer I
(PI3K) beta inhibitor
2256098 focal adhesion kinase inhibitor mesothelioma I
525762 BET family bromodomain inhibitor solid tumours and haematological malignancies I
Immuno-inflammation
sirukumab† interleukin 6 (IL6) human monoclonal rheumatoid arthritis* III
antibody
sirukumab† interleukin 6 (IL6) human monoclonal giant cell arteritis* III
antibody
Benlysta B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal systemic lupus erythematosus* III
antibody (s.c.)
Benlysta B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal vasculitis* III
antibody (i.v.)
Benlysta B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal transplant rejection* II
antibody (i.v.)
Benlysta + Rituxan† B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal Sjogren's syndrome II
antibody (s.c.) + cluster of differentiation
20 (CD20) monoclonal antibody (i.v.)
3196165† granulocyte macrophage colony- rheumatoid arthritis II
stimulating factor monoclonal antibody
2330811 oncostatin M (OSM) monoclonal antibody systemic sclerosis I
2618960 interleukin 7 (IL7) receptor monoclonal Sjogren's syndrome I
antibody
2646264 spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk) inhibitor chronic urticaria I
(topical)
2831781† lymphocyte activation gene 3 (LAG3) autoimmune disease I
protein monoclonal antibody
2982772 receptor-interacting protein 1 (RIP1) psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis and ulcerative colitis I
kinase inhibitor
3050002† chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 20 psoriatic arthritis I
(CCL20) monoclonal antibody
3117391† macrophage targeted histone rheumatoid arthritis I
deacetylase inhibitor
3179106 rearranged during transfection (RET) inflammatory disorders of the bowel I
kinase inhibitor
Rare diseases
2696273† ex-vivo stem cell gene therapy adenosine deaminase severe combined immune Submitted S: May15
deficiency (ADA-SCID)
29987281 transthyretin (TTR) production inhibitor transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis III
mepolizumab interleukin 5 (IL5) monoclonal antibody eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis* III
2398852† + 2315698† serum amyloid P component (SAP) amyloidosis II
monoclonal antibody + SAP depleter
(CPHPC)
2696274† ex-vivo stem cell gene therapy metachromatic leukodystrophy II
2696275† ex-vivo stem cell gene therapy Wiscott-Aldrich syndrome II
26962774 ex-vivo stem cell gene therapy beta-thalassemia IGSK Annual Report 2015 227
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Vaccines
Shingrix† recombinant Herpes Zoster prophylaxis III
(Zoster Vaccine)
MMR live attenuated measles, mumps, rubella prophylaxis III (US) N/A
Ebola† recombinant viral vector Ebola haemorrhagic fever prophylaxis II
Group B conjugated Group B streptococcus prophylaxis II
Streptococcus (maternal immunisation)
S. pneumoniae next recombinant – conjugated Streptococcus pneumoniae disease prophylaxis II
generation†
COPD† recombinant reduction of the frequency of COPD exacerbations II
associated with non-typeable Haemophilus
influenzae and Moraxella catarrhalis
Hepatitis C† recombinant viral vector hepatitis C virus prophylaxis II
Malaria next generation† recombinant malaria prophylaxis (Plasmodium falciparum) II
Men ABCWY recombinant – conjugated meningococcal A,B,C,W and Y disease prophylaxis II
in adolescents
Pseudomonas5 recombinant pseudomonas infection prophylaxis II
Shigella† conjugated and outer membrane Shigella diarrhea prophylaxis II
Tuberculosis† recombinant tuberculosis prophylaxis II
RSV recombinant respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis II
(maternal immunisation)
RSV replication-defective recombinant respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis I
viral vector
HIV† recombinant proteins HIV infection prophylaxis I
Other pharmaceuticals
Metabolic
retosiban oxytocin antagonist spontaneous pre-term labour III
daprodustat (1278863) prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor anaemia associated with chronic renal disease II
2330672 ileal bile acid transport (IBAT) inhibitor cholestatic pruritus II
camicinal motilin receptor agonist delayed gastric emptying II
Eperzan/Tanzeum glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP1) type 1 diabetes II
(albiglutide) receptor agonist
losmapimod p38 kinase inhibitor focal segmental glomerular sclerosis* II
otelixizumab cluster of differentiation 3 (CD3) new onset type 1 diabetes II
daprodustat (1278863) prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor (topical) wound healing I
monoclonal antibody
2798745 transient receptor potential cation heart failure I
channel V4 (TRPV4) antagonist
2881078 selective androgen receptor modulator muscle wasting I
oxytocin (inhaled)† oxytocin postpartum hemorrhage I
Dermatology
chlorhexidine cationic polybiguanide (topical) prevention of omphalitis Submitted S: Oct15
2894512† non-steroidal anti-inflammatory (topical) atopic dermatitis II
2894512† non-steroidal anti-inflammatory (topical) psoriasis II
2981278 ROR gamma inverse agonist (topical) psoriasis II
umeclidinium muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist (topical) hyperhidrosis* II
mepolizumab interleukin 5 (IL5) monoclonal antibody severe atopic dermatitis* I
Neurosciences
933776 beta amyloid monoclonal antibody geographic retinal atrophy II
Benlysta B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal myasthenia gravis* II
antibody (i.v.)
rilapladib lipoprotein-associated phospholipase Alzheimer's disease II
A2 (Lp-PLA2) inhibitor
n/a ocular target LICA antisense geographic atrophy age-related macular disease I
oligonucleotide1228 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pipeline, products and competition
continued
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property
Major Patent expiry dates3
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Respiratory
Anoro Ellipta umeclidinium bromide/ COPD Spiriva Handihaler/ 2025 2029
vilanterol terfenatate Respimat, Stiolto/ (NCE) (NCE)
Spiolto Respimat 2027-2030 2022-2025
Ultibro Breezhaler, (device/ (device/
Duaklir Genuair formulation) formulation)
Arnuity Ellipta fluticasone furoate asthma Qvar, Pulmicort 2021 NA
Asmanex, (NCE)
Alvesco 2027-2030
(device/
formulation)
Avamys/Veramyst fluticasone furoate rhinitis Nasonex 20212 2023
Flixotide/Flovent fluticasone propionate asthma/COPD Qvar, Singulair 2016 expired
(Diskus device) (Diskus device)
2018-20261 2017
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Incruse Ellipta umeclidinium bromide COPD Spiriva Handihaler/ 2025 2029
Respimat, (NCE) (NCE)
Eklira Genuair 2027-2030 2022-2025
(device/ (device/
formulation) formulation)
Nucala mepolizumab severe eosinophilic asthma Xolair 20164 20204
Relvar/Breo fluticasone furoate/ asthma/COPD Symbicort, Foster, 2022 2027
Ellipta vilanterol terfenatate Flutiform, Dulera (NCE) (NCE)
2027-2030 2022-2025
(device/ (device/
formulation) formulation)
Seretide/Advair* salmeterol xinafoate/ asthma/COPD Symbicort, Foster, 2016 expired
fluticasone propionate Flutiform, Dulera (Diskus device) (Diskus device)
2018-20261 2017
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Serevent salmeterol xinafoate asthma/COPD Foradil, Spiriva, 2016 expired
Handihaler/Respimat (Diskus device) (Diskus device)
Onbrez 2019
(HFA-device)
Ventolin HFA albuterol sulphate asthma/COPD generic companies 2018-20261 2017
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Anti-virals
Valtrex valaciclovir genital herpes, coldsores, Famvir expired expired
shingles
Zeffix/Epivir-HBV lamivudine chronic hepatitis B Hepsera expired expired
Central nervous system
Lamictal lamotrigine epilepsy, bipolar disorder Keppra, Dilantin expired expired
Imigran/Imitrex sumatriptan migraine Zomig, Maxalt, Relpax expired expired
Seroxat/Paxil paroxetine depression, various Effexor, Cymbalta, expired expired
anxiety disorders Lexapro
Cardiovascular and urogenital
Eperzan/Tanzeum albiglutide Type 2 diabetes Victoza, Byetta 2022 2027
Bydureon, Lyxumia
Trulicity
Avodart dutasteride benign prostatic hyperplasia Proscar, Flomax, expired 2017
finasteride
Coreg CR carvedilol phosphate mild-to-severe heart failure, Toprol XL 20261,2 NA
hypertension, left ventricular (formulation)
dysfunction post MI
* See ’Risk factors’ on page 232 for details of uncertainty on the timing of follow-on competition.
1 See Note 45 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
2 Generic competition possible in 2016.
3 Includes Supplementary Protection Certificates and other patent term extensions, where granted.
4 Data exclusivity expires 2025 (EU) and 2027 (US).GSK Annual Report 2015 229
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property continued
Major Patent expiry dates3
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Anti-bacterials
Augmentin amoxicillin/clavulanate common bacterial generic products NA expired
potassium infections
Rare diseases
Volibris ambrisentan pulmonary hypertension Tracleer, Revatio NA 2020
Immuno-inflammation
Benlysta belimumab systemic lupus erythematosus 2023 2026
HIV
Epzicom/Kivexa lamivudine and abacavir HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla 20161 20191
Stribild (combination) (combination)
Complera/Eviplera
Lexiva/Telzir fosamprenavir HIV/AIDS Prezista, Kaletra, 20181 2019
Reyataz
Selzentry/Celsentri maraviroc HIV/AIDS Isentress, Intelence, 2021 2022
Prezista
Tivicay dolutegravir HIV/AIDS Isentress, Prezista 2027 2029
Reyataz, Kaletra
Triumeq dolutegravir, lamivudine HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla 2027 2031
and abacavir Stribild
Complera/Eviplera
Trizivir lamivudine, zidovudine HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla 20161,2 2016
and abacavir Stribild (combination) (combination)
Complera/Eviplera
Vaccines products, competition and intellectual property
Patent expiry dates
Major
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Bexsero meningococcal group-B Meningitis group B prevention Trumenba 2027 20281
vaccine
Boostrix diphtheria, tetanus, acellular diphtheria, tetanus, acellular Adacel 2017 2017
pertussis Pertussis booster vaccination
Infanrix Hexa/ diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, Prophylaxis against diphtheria, Pentacel, Pediacel, 2018 expired
Pediarix polio, hepatitis B, tetanus, pertussis, polio, Pentaxim, Pentavac,
Haemophilus influenzae hepatitis B, Haemophilus Hexaxim
type B (EU) influenzae type B (EU)
Cervarix HPV 16 & 18 virus like human papilloma virus Gardasil (Silgard) 2020 2020
particles (VLPs), AS04 type 16 and 18
adjuvant (MPL + aluminium
hydroxide)
Fluarix Tetra split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza Intenza, Flumist QIV, 2022 2022
virus subtypes A and prophylaxis Vaxigrip QIV,
subtype B antigens Fluzone QIV,
Fluzone High Dose
FluLaval split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, 2022 2022
virus subtypes A and prophylaxis Fluzone, Influvac,
subtype B antigens Aggripal, Fluad,
Intenza, Flumist
Menveo meningococcal group A, C, W- Meningitis group A, C, W-135 Mencevax, Menactra 2025 2025
135 and Y conjugate vaccine and Y prophylaxis
Prepandrix derived split inactivated pandemic H5N1 Aflunov, Vepacel – 2026
influenza virus antigen, influenza prophylaxis
AS03 adjuvant
Rotarix Human rotavirus RIX4414 strain Rotavirus prophylaxis Rotateq – 2020
Synflorix conjugated pneumococcal Prophylaxis against invasive Prevenar (Prevnar) NA 2024
polysaccharide disease, pneumonia,
acute otitis media
1 See Note 45 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
2 Generic competition commenced in 2014.
3 Includes Supplementary Protection Certificates and other patent term extensions, where granted.230 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pipeline, products and competition
continued
Consumer Healthcare products and competition
Brand Products Application Markets Competition
Wellness
Panadol and tablets, caplets, paracetamol-based global (except US) Advil, Pfizer
Panadol Cold infant syrup drops treatment for headache, Aspirin, Bayer
& Flu joint pain, fever, Tylenol, Johnson & Johnson
cold symptoms
Voltaren topical gel non-steroidal, diclofenac global Advil, Pfizer
based anti-inflammatory Aspirin, Bayer
Tylenol, Johnson & Johnson
Otrivin nasal spray nasal decongestant Germany, Poland, Afrin, Merck
Russia, Sweden, Nasivin, Merck
Ukraine
Theraflu tablets and syrups cold and flu relief Russia, Poland, Tylenol Cold & Flu,
Ukraine, US Johnson & Johnson
Mucinex, Reckitt Benckiser
Lemsip, Reckitt Benckiser
Flonase nasal spray allergy relief China, Ireland, Claritin, Bayer
Flixanase UK, US Rhinocort, Astra Zeneca
Flixonase Nasacort, Sanofi
Piriteze
ENO effervescent immediate relief antacid global (except US) Estomazil, Hypermarca
Gelusil, Pfizer
Tums chewable tablets immediate relief antacid US Alka-Seltzer, Bayer
Gaviscon, Reckitt Benckiser
Rolaids, Sanofi
Nicorette (US), lozenges, gum and treatment of nicotine global Nicorette, Johnson & Johnson
NicoDerm, trans-dermal patches withdrawal as an aid to NiQuitin, Perrigo
Nicotinell smoking reduction and
(ex. Australia) cessation
Oral health
Sensodyne, toothpastes, toothbrushes, relief of dentinal global Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief,
Pronamel mouth rinse hypersensitivity. Colgate-Palmolive
Pronamel additionally Elmex, Colgate-Palmolive
protects against acid Oral B, Procter & Gamble
erosion
Parodontax/ toothpaste, helps prevent bleeding Germany, Ireland Colgate Total Gum Health,
Corsodyl medicated mouthwash, gums, treats and prevents Italy, United Kingdom Colgate-Palmolive
gel and spray gingivitis Yunnan Baiyao, State
Enterprise (China)
Polident, denture adhesive, denture improve retention and global Fixodent and Kukident,
Poligrip, cleanser comfort of dentures, Procter & Gamble,
Corega cleans dentures Steradent, Reckitt Benckiser
Aquafresh toothpastes, toothbrushes aids prevention of dental global Colgate, Colgate-Palmolive
mouthwashes cavities, maintains healthy Crest, Procter & Gamble
teeth, gums and fresh breath Oral-B, Procter & Gamble
Skin health
Zovirax topical cream and lip care to treat and prevent global Compeed, Johnson & Johnson
Abreva non-medicated patch the onset of cold sores Carmex, Carma Labs
Blistex, Blistex Incorporated
retail own label
Nutrition
Horlicks malted drinks and foods nutritional Indian sub-continent, Bournvita, Mondelez
beverages & food United Kingdom, Ireland Complan, HeinzGSK Annual Report 2015 231
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk factors
The principal risks discussed below are the risks and uncertainties Similarly, our business exposes us to litigation and government
relevant to our business, financial condition and results of operations investigations, including but not limited to product liability litigation, patent
that may affect our performance and ability to achieve our objectives. and antitrust litigation and sales and marketing litigation. Litigation and
The factors below are those that we believe could cause our actual government investigations, including related provisions we may make for
results to differ materially from expected and historical results. unfavourable outcomes and increases in related costs such as insurance
premiums, could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
We must adapt to and comply with a broad range of laws and
regulations. These requirements apply to research and development, More detail on the status and various uncertainties involved in our
manufacturing, testing, approval, distribution, sales and marketing of significant unresolved disputes and potential litigation is set out in
Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare products, and affect Note 45, ‘Legal proceedings,’ on pages 206 to 210.
not only the cost of product development but also the time required to
UK regulations require a discussion of the mitigating activities a company
reach the market and the likelihood of doing so successfully.
takes to address principal risks and uncertainties. A summary of the
Moreover, as rules and regulations change, and governmental activities that the Group takes to manage each of our principal risks
interpretation of those rules and regulations evolves, the nature of accompanies the description of each principal risk below. The principal
a particular risk may change. Changes to certain regulatory regimes risk factors and uncertainties are not listed in order of significance.
may be substantial. Any change in, and any failure to comply with,
applicable law and regulation could materially and adversely affect
our financial results.
Patient safety
Risk definition Individual Medical Officers and the Group’s substantial Global
Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, or report adverse Safety and Pharmacovigilance organisation keep track of any adverse
events from all potential sources, and to act on any relevant findings issues reported for our products during the course of clinical studies.
in a timely manner.
Once a Group product is approved for marketing, the Group has an
Risk impact extensive post-marketing surveillance and signal detection system.
The impact of this risk is potentially to compromise our ability to Information on possible side effects of medicines is received from
conduct robust safety signal detection and interpretation and to several sources including unsolicited reports from health
ensure that appropriate decisions are taken with respect to the professionals and patients, regulatory authorities, medical and
risk/benefit profile of our products, including the completeness scientific literature and the media. It is our policy that employees are
and accuracy of product labels and the pursuit of additional required to report immediately any issues relating to the safety or
studies/analyses, as appropriate. This could lead to potential harm quality of our products. Each of our country managers is responsible
to patients, reputational damage, product liability claims or other for monitoring, exception tracking and training that helps assure the
litigation, governmental investigation, regulatory action such as collection of safety information and reporting the information to the
fines, penalties or loss of product authorisation. relevant central safety department, in accordance with Group policy
and legal requirements.
Context
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development Information that changes the benefit/risk profile of one of the Group’s
of investigational Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare medicines will result in certain actions to characterise, communicate
Products to determine the safety and efficacy of the products for use and minimise the risk. Proposed actions are discussed with
by humans. Notwithstanding the efforts we make to determine the regulatory authorities and can include modifying the prescribing
safety of our products through appropriate pre-clinical and clinical information, communications to physicians and other healthcare
trials, unanticipated side effects may become evident only when providers, restrictions on product prescribing/availability to help
products are widely introduced into the marketplace. Questions assure safe use, and sometimes carrying out further clinical trials.
may be raised not only by our ongoing safety surveillance and In certain cases, it may be appropriate to stop clinical trials or to
post-marketing studies but also by governmental agencies and withdraw the medicine from the market. The Group’s Global Safety
third-parties that may analyse publicly available clinical trial results. Board (GSB), comprising senior physicians and representatives
of supporting functions, is an integral component of the system. The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product liability
The GSB (including subsidiary boards dedicated to Consumer
lawsuits, including class actions, that involve significant claims for
Healthcare Products and Vaccines) reviews the safety of
damages related to our products. Litigation, particularly in the US, is
investigational and marketed products across the Group and has
inherently unpredictable. Class actions that seek to sweep together
the authority to stop a clinical trial if continued conduct of such trial
all persons who were prescribed our products increase the potential
is not ethically or scientifically justified in light of information that has
liability. Claims for pain and suffering and punitive damages are
emerged since the start of the trial.
frequently asserted in product liability actions and, if allowed, can
represent potentially open-ended exposure and thus, could materially In addition to the medical governance framework within the Group
and adversely affect the Group’s financial results. as described above, the Group uses several mechanisms to foster
the early evaluation, mitigation, and resolution of disputes as they
Mitigating activities
arise and of potential claims even before they arise. The goal of
The Chief Medical Officer (CMO) is responsible for medical
the programmes is to create a culture of early identification and
governance for the Group under a global policy. Under that policy,
evaluation of risks and claims (actual or potential), in order to
safeguarding human subjects in our clinical trials and patients who
minimise liability and litigation.
take our products is of paramount importance, and the CMO has the
authoritative role for evaluating and addressing matters of human
safety.232 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk factors – continued
Intellectual property
Risk definition Generic drug manufacturers have also exhibited a readiness to
Failure to appropriately secure and protect intellectual property market generic versions of many of our most important products prior
rights. to the expiration of our patents. Their efforts may involve challenges
to the validity or enforceability of a patent or assertions that their
Risk impact
generic product does not infringe our patents. As a result, we are
Any failure to obtain or subsequent loss of patent protection,
and may continue to be involved in legal proceedings involving patent
including reducing the availability or scope of patent rights or
challenges, which may materially and adversely affect our financial
compulsory licensing (in which a government forces a manufacturer
results. Moreover, in the US, it has become increasingly common for
to license its patents for specific products to a competitor), could
patent infringement actions to prompt claims that anti-trust laws have
materially and adversely affect our financial results in those markets.
been violated during the prosecution of the patent or during litigation
Absence of adequate patent or data exclusivity protection could limit
involving the defence of that patent. Such claims by direct and
the opportunity to rely on such markets for future sales growth for our
indirect purchasers and other payers are typically filed as class
products, which could also materially and adversely affect our
actions. The relief sought may include treble damages and restitution
financial results.
claims. Similarly, anti-trust claims may be brought by government
Context entities or private parties following settlement of patent litigation,
As an innovative Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare alleging that such settlements are anti-competitive and in violation
Products company, we seek to obtain appropriate intellectual of anti-trust laws. A successful anti-trust claim by a private party or
property protection for our products. Our ability to obtain and enforce government entity could materially and adversely affect our financial
patents and other proprietary rights with regard to our products is results.
critical to our business strategy and success. Pharmaceutical and
The expiration dates for patents for our major products which may
Vaccine products are usually only protected from being copied by
affect the dates on which generic versions of our products may be
generic manufacturers during the period of exclusivity provided by
introduced are set out on pages 228 to 229. Legal proceedings
an issued patent or related intellectual property rights such as
involving patent challenges are set out in Note 45 to the financial
Regulatory Data Protection or Orphan Drug status. Following
statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
expiration of certain intellectual property rights, a generic
manufacturer may lawfully produce a generic version of the product. Mitigating activities
Our Global Patents group focuses on securing and protecting
We operate in markets where intellectual property laws and patent
our patent rights. This global group maintains internal processes
offices are still developing and where governments may be unwilling
designed to seek to ensure successful procurement, enforcement
to grant or enforce intellectual property rights in a fashion similar to
and defence of our patents with the goal of maintaining exclusive
more developed regions such as the EU, Japan and the US. Some
rights in markets for our products.
developing countries have limited, or threatened to limit, effective
patent protection for pharmaceutical products in order to facilitate The Global Patents group monitors new developments in
early competition within their markets from generic manufacturers. international patent law to seek to ensure appropriate protection of
our assets. Sometimes acting through trade associations, we work
We face competition from manufacturers of proprietary and generic
with local governments to seek to secure effective and balanced
pharmaceutical products in all of our major markets. Introduction of
intellectual property protection designed to meet the needs of
generic products, particularly in the US where we have our highest
patients and payers while supporting long-term investment in
turnover and margins, typically leads to a rapid and dramatic loss of
innovation.
sales and reduces our revenues and margins for our proprietary
products.
We depend on certain key products for a significant portion of our
sales. One such product is our respiratory pharmaceutical product
Seretide/Advair which accounts for significant Group sales
worldwide. The timing and impact of entry in the US for a generic
product containing the same combination of active substances as
Seretide/Advair is uncertain. The US patent for compositions
containing the combination of active substances in Seretide/Advair
expired during 2010 although the US patent on a component of the
Advair Diskus device continues until August 2016. Generic products
containing the same combination of active substances as Seretide/
Advair (in both metered dose inhalers and dry powder inhalers) have
been launched by several manufacturers in a number of European
markets. The timing and impact of entry in the US and major markets
in Europe for a ‘follow-on’ product to Seretide/Advair is uncertain.GSK Annual Report 2015 233
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Product quality
Risk definition There is no single external global quality standard or system which
Failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices governs the lifecycle of medicinal products and requirements are
(cGMP) or inadequate controls and governance of quality in the often complex and fragmented across national and regional
supply chain covering supplier standards, manufacturing and boundaries. The ICH guideline Q10: Pharmaceutical Quality
distribution of products. Systems provides a model for a comprehensive quality framework
which takes into account international quality concepts and is
Risk impact
designed to be implemented through the product lifecycle. This
A failure to ensure product quality could have far reaching
framework has been adopted by GSK and is augmented with a
implications in terms of patient and consumer safety resulting in
consolidation of multiple regulatory requirements from across the
product launch delays, supply interruptions and product recalls
world in order to seek to ensure that the GSK PQS meets external
which would have the potential to do damage to our reputation.
expectations for Product Quality in the markets supplied. The PQS
Associated regulatory, legal, and financial consequences could
is regularly updated to seek to ensure it keeps pace with external
materially and adversely affect our reputation and financial results.
regulatory changes, and reflects both operational improvements
Context and new scientific understanding to support the delivery of
Patients, consumers and healthcare professionals trust the quality consistent and reliable products.
of our products. A failure to ensure product quality is an enterprise
An extensive global network of quality and compliance
risk which is applicable across all of our business activities.
professionals is aligned with each business unit to provide
Product quality may be influenced by many factors including
oversight and assist with the delivery of quality performance and
product and process understanding, consistency of manufacturing
operational compliance, from site level to senior management level.
components, compliance with GMP, accuracy of labelling,
Management oversight of those activities is accomplished through
reliability of the external supply chain, and the embodiment of an
a hierarchy of Quality Councils and through an independent Chief
overarching quality culture. The internal and external environment
Product Quality Officer and Global Product Quality Office.
continues to evolve as new products, new markets and new
legislation are introduced, with increasing scrutiny of supply GSK has implemented a risk-based approach to assessing and
continuity, a focus on improved distribution practice and the managing our third-party suppliers that provide materials used in
introduction of novel cell and gene based therapies. Review of finished products. Contract manufacturers making our products
inspections conducted across the industry by national regulatory are expected to comply with standards identified by GSK and are
authorities during 2015 highlighted an ongoing focus on data audited to help provide assurance that expected standards are
integrity, contamination prevention and the rigour of quality met.
investigations including the robustness of decision making and
All staff members are regularly trained to seek to ensure that
the timely escalation of pertinent issues to regulatory authorities.
cGMP standards and behaviours based on our GSK values are
Mitigating activities followed. Additionally, advocacy and communication programmes
We have developed and implemented a single Pharmaceutical are routinely deployed to seek to ensure consistent messages are
Quality System (PQS) that defines the quality standards and conveyed across GSK, whether they originate from changes in
systems for our businesses associated with Pharmaceuticals, regulation or learnings from inspections or regulatory submissions.
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare products and clinical trial There is a continued emphasis on the value of quality performance
materials. This system has a broad scope and is applicable metrics to facilitate improvement and foster a culture of ‘right
throughout the lifecycle of products from R&D to mature first time’.
commercial supply.234 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk factors – continued
Financial control and reporting
Risk definition Third parties are critical to our business delivery and are an
Failure to comply with current tax law or incurring significant integral part of the solution to improve our productivity, quality,
losses due to treasury activities; failure to report accurate financial service and innovation. We rely on third-parties, including
information in compliance with accounting standards and applicable suppliers, distributors, individual contractors, licensees, and
legislation; failure to maintain adequate governance and oversight other pharmaceutical and biotechnology collaboration partners
over third-party relationships. for discovery, manufacture, and marketing of our products and
important business processes.
Risk impact
Non-compliance with existing or new financial reporting and Third party business relationships present a material risk. For
disclosure requirements, or changes to the recognition of income example, we share critical and sensitive information such as
and expenses, could expose us to litigation and regulatory action marketing plans, clinical data, and employee data with specific
and could materially and adversely affect our financial results. third parties who are conducting the relevant outsourced business
Changes in tax laws or in their application with respect to matters operations. Inadequate protection or misuse of this information
such as transfer pricing, foreign dividends, controlled companies, by third parties could have significant business impact. Similarly,
R&D tax credits, taxation of intellectual property or a restriction in tax we use distributors and agents in a range of activities such as
relief allowed on the interest on intra-group debt, could impact our promotion and tendering which have inherent risks such as
effective tax rate. Significant losses may arise from inconsistent inappropriate promotion or corruption. Insufficient internal
application of treasury policies, transactional or settlement errors, compliance and controls by the distributors could affect our
or counterparty defaults. Any changes in the substance or reputation. These risks are further increased by the complexities
application of the governing tax laws, failure to comply with such tax of working with large numbers of third parties.
laws or significant losses due to treasury activities could materially
Mitigating activities
and adversely affect our financial results.
The Group maintains a control environment designed to identify
Failure to adequately manage third-party relationships could result in material errors in financial reporting and disclosure. The design
business interruption and exposure to risk ranging from sub-optimal and operating effectiveness of key financial reporting controls
contractual terms and conditions, to severe business sanctions are regularly tested by management and via independent business
and/or significant reputational damage. Any of these consequences monitoring. This provides us with the assurance that controls over
could materially and adversely affect our business operations and key financial reporting and disclosure processes have operated
financial results. effectively.
Context We keep up-to-date with the latest developments in financial
The Group is required by the laws of various jurisdictions to reporting requirements by working with our external auditors
disclose publicly its financial results and events that could and legal advisors.
materially affect the financial results of the Group. Regulators
There is shared accountability for financial results across our
routinely review the financial statements of listed companies for
businesses. Financial results are reviewed and approved by compliance with new, revised or existing accounting and regulatory
regional management and then reviewed with the Financial
requirements. The Group believes that it complies with the
Controller and the Chief Financial Officer (CFO). This allows our
appropriate regulatory requirements concerning our financial
Financial Controller and our CFO to assess the evolution of the
statements and disclosure of material information including any
business over time, and to evaluate performance to plan.
transactions relating to business restructuring such as acquisitions
Significant judgments are reviewed and confirmed by senior
and divestitures. However, should we be subject to an investigation
management. Business reorganisations and newly acquired
into potential non-compliance with accounting and disclosure
activities such as Novartis acquired businesses and Oncology
requirements, this may lead to restatements of previously reported
divestitures are integrated into risk assessments and appropriate
results and significant penalties.
controls and reviews have been applied.
Our Treasury group deals in high value transactions, mostly foreign
We introduced additional resources and monitoring to ensure that
exchange and cash management transactions, on a daily basis.
robust financial controls were maintained during 2015, effectively
The Group’s effective tax rate reflects rates of tax in the managing risks while the initial phase of integrating the former
jurisdictions in which the Group operates that are both higher Novartis’ businesses into our control and reporting framework
and lower than the UK rate and take into account regimes that were implemented, and the ongoing transformation and upgrade
encourage innovation and investment in science by providing tax to our financial systems and processes continued. Additional risk
incentives which, if changed, could affect the Group’s tax rate. mitigation was introduced by amending the programme timelines
of the ongoing system upgrades.
The tax charge included in our financial statements is our best
estimate of tax liability pending audits by tax authorities. The The Group maintains a Disclosure Committee reporting to the
worldwide nature of our operations and cross-border supply Board, which reviews the Group’s quarterly results and Annual
routes can be complex and can lead to questions on tax audit. Report and determines throughout the year, in consultation with
its legal advisors, whether it is necessary to disclose publicly
There continues to be a significant international focus on tax
information about the Group through Stock Exchange
reform, including the OECD’s ‘BEPS’ project and European
announcements.
Commission initiatives such as the proposed ‘anti-BEPS’ Directive
and the increased use of fiscal state aid investigations. Together The Treasury Management Group (TMG) meets on a regular
with domestic initiatives around the world, these may result in basis to seek to ensure that liquidity, interest rate, foreign currency
significant changes to established tax principals and an increase transaction and foreign currency translation risks are all managed
in tax authority disputes. These, regardless of their merit or in line with the conservative approach as detailed in the associated
outcomes, can be costly, divert management attention and may risk strategies and policies which have been adopted by the
adversely impact our reputation. Board.GSK Annual Report 2015 235
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial control and reporting continued
Oversight of Treasury’s role in managing counterparty risk in To seek to guide and enforce our global principles for interactions
line with agreed policy is performed by a Corporate Compliance with third parties we have in place a policy framework applicable
Officer (CCO), who operates independently of Treasury. to buying goods and services, managing our external spend,
paying and working with our third parties. This policy framework
Further details on mitigation of Treasury Risks can be found on
applies to all employees and complementary workers worldwide.
page 192, Note 41, ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’.
The framework is complemented by technical and local standards
Tax risk is managed by a set of policies and procedures to seek designed to seek to ensure alignment with the nature of third
to ensure consistency and compliance with tax legislation. party interactions, such as good manufacturing practice and
adherence to local laws and regulations. Independent business
We seek to maintain open, positive relationships with governments
monitoring of key financial and operational controls is in place
and tax authorities worldwide. We monitor government debate
and is supplemented by periodic checks from the company’s
on tax policy in our key jurisdictions to deal proactively with any
independent Audit & Assurance function.
potential future changes in tax law. We engage advisors and legal
counsel to review tax legislation and the implications for our Continuous monitoring and performance of third parties is
business. Where relevant we are active in providing relevant enhanced through a Third Party Oversight team in the Global
business input to tax policy makers. Ethics and Compliance organisation. This team commenced
implementation of a global programme that takes an enterprise
A centralised team of dedicated specialists are responsible for
view of third party related risks, the programme is strengthening
managing transactional tax reporting and compliance.
risk assessment and due diligence efforts on third parties and
We submit tax returns according to statutory time limits and improving the overall management of our third party risks through
engage with tax authorities to seek to ensure our tax affairs are the lifecycle of the third party engagement. Oversight for the
current, entering into arrangements such as Continuous Audit programme is provided by the newly created global risk office
Programmes and Advance Pricing Agreements to provide within GSK’s Global Ethics and Compliance group.
long-term certainty over tax treatment where appropriate. In
exceptional cases where matters cannot be settled by agreement
with tax authorities, we may have to resolve disputes through
formal appeals or other proceedings.
Each business unit leadership team retains ultimate accountability
for managing third party interactions and risks. When working with
third parties, all GSK employees are expected to manage external
interactions and commitments responsibly. This expectation is
embedded in our values and code of conduct. It is our
responsibility that all activities are performed safely and in
compliance with applicable laws and GSK’s values, standards
and code of conduct.236 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk factors – continued
Anti-Bribery and Corruption
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to prevent GSK employees and third parties not complying Our Code of Conduct, values and behaviours and commitment to
with our ABAC principles and standards, as well as with all zero tolerance are integral to how we mitigate this risk. In light of
applicable legislation. the complexity and geographic breadth of this risk, we constantly
enhance our oversight of activities and data, reinforce to our
Risk impact
employees and contractors clear expectations regarding
Failure to mitigate this risk could expose the Group and associated
acceptable behaviours, and maintain on-going communications
persons to governmental investigation, regulatory action and civil
between the Group centre headquarters and local markets.
and criminal liability, as well as damage the Group’s reputation,
shareholder value, and our licence to operate in particular The Group has an enterprise-wide ABAC programme designed
jurisdictions, all of which could materially and adversely affect to respond to the threat and risk of bribery and corruption. It
our financial results. builds on the Group’s values and existing standards to form a
comprehensive and practical approach to compliance, and is
Context
flexible to the evolving nature of our business. For example, we
We are exposed to bribery and corruption risk through our global
scaled our acquisition ABAC due diligence specific to the 2015
business operations. In some markets, the government structure
Novartis transaction.
and the rule of law are less developed, and this has a bearing on
our bribery and corruption risk exposure. In addition to the global Our ABAC programme is supported by: top-level commitment
nature of our business, the healthcare sector is highly competitive from the Group Board of Directors and leadership throughout the
and subject to regulation. This increases the instances where we business; ongoing risk assessment; a global ABAC policy; and
are exposed to activities and interactions with bribery and written standards that address commercial and other practices
corruption risk. that give rise to ABAC risk; due diligence of high risk third parties;
ongoing training and communications; a confidential reporting line;
The US and UK authorities are leading extra-territorial ABAC
monitoring of compliance and an investigations team. In addition,
enquiries into certain of the Group’s operations. These
the programme mandates enhanced controls over interactions with
investigations are discussed further in Note 45 ‘Legal proceedings’.
government officials and when undertaking business development
transactions. Programme governance is provided by the Group’s
ABAC Governance Board which includes representation from key
functional areas and business units.
Additionally, we have a dedicated ABAC team responsible for the
implementation and evolution of the programme in response to
developments in the internal and external environment. This is
complemented with ABAC investigations, ABAC Audit and
Independent Business Monitoring teams which have separate
reporting lines.
We continually benchmark our ABAC programme against other
large multi-national companies and use external expertise to review
and help improve elements of our ABAC programme. As a result
of the China and other country investigations, the Group has
increased resources in both its centrally located ABAC team as
well as regional ABAC teams. During 2015, we also completed
an ABAC review and reduced our presence in a number of
high-risk markets.GSK Annual Report 2015 237
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Commercialisation
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to execute business strategies, or manage competitive Our strategic objectives are designed to ensure the Group
opportunities or threats effectively and in accordance with the achieves its mission of helping people do more, feel better and
letter and spirit of legal, industry or company requirements. live longer. The Group continues to transform by strengthening our
presence in key emerging markets, restructuring R&D, simplifying
Risk impact
core business operations and reducing our manufacturing
Failure to manage risks related to commercialisation could
footprint. Our recent transaction with Novartis has helped further
materially and adversely affect our ability to grow a diversified
accelerate this pace of change, while strengthening our three
global business and deliver more products of value.
core businesses: Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer
Failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations may Healthcare.
result in governmental investigation, regulatory action and legal
These changes are allowing us to be more global and more
proceedings brought against the Group by governmental and
relevant to the needs of the world. Our aim is to reach as many
private plaintiffs. Failure to provide accurate and complete
patients and consumers as we can, improving their health and
information related to our products may result in incomplete
wellbeing through the use of our products. How we deliver this
awareness of the benefit:risk profile of our products and possibly
goal is just as important as what we achieve. Our values provide a
suboptimal treatment of patients and consumers. Any of these
guide for how we lead and make decisions. We constantly strive to
consequences could materially and adversely affect the Group.
do the right thing and deliver quality products, seeking to ensure
Any practices that are found to be misaligned with our values
our behaviours reflect our values and the mission of our company.
could also result in reputational damage and dilute trust
established with key stakeholders. The Corporate Executive Team has set out their shared objectives
which describe the most important priorities we need to deliver
Context
across the Group and a set of enterprise-wide projects which
We operate on a global basis in an industry that is both highly
are critical to achieving these objectives. The strategic objectives
competitive and highly regulated. Our competitors may make
are cascaded throughout the Group to ensure enterprise-wide
significant product innovations and technical advances and may
alignment. Processes are in place to regularly review achievement
intensify price competition. In light of this competitive environment,
towards these objectives.
continued development of commercially viable new products and
the development of additional uses for existing products are critical We have taken action at all levels of the Group to enhance and
to achieve our strategic objectives. improve standards and procedures for promotional interactions,
based on our values of transparency, respect, integrity and patient
Developing new pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer healthcare
focus. We have policies and standards governing promotional
products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process, however,
activities undertaken by the Group or on its behalf. All of these
and a product candidate may fail at any stage, including after
activities we conduct worldwide must conform to high ethical,
significant Group economic and human resources have been
regulatory, and industry standards. Where local standards differ
invested. Our competitors’ products or pricing strategies or any
from global standards, the more stringent of the two applies.
failure on our part to develop commercially successful products,
or to develop additional uses for existing products, could materially The Group has harmonised policies and procedures to guide
and adversely affect our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. above country Commercial Practices processes as well as
clarified applicable standards when engaging in the markets.
We are committed to the ethical and responsible
Commercial Practices activities have oversight from both business
commercialisation of our products to support our mission to
unit Risk Management and Compliance Boards (RMCBs) and
improve the quality of human life by enabling people to do more,
Country Executive Boards (CEBs) that manage risks across
feel better, and live longer. To accomplish this mission, we engage
in-country business activities.
the healthcare community in various ways to provide important
information about our medicines. All promotional materials and activities must be reviewed and
approved according to the Group’s policies and standards, and
Promotion of approved products seeks to ensure that HCPs globally
conducted in accordance with local laws and regulations, to seek
have access to information they need, that patients and consumers
to ensure that these materials and activities fairly represent the
have access to the products they need and that products are
products or services of the Group. When necessary, we have
prescribed, recommended or used in a manner that provides the
disciplined (up to and including termination) employees who have
maximum healthcare benefit to patients and consumers. We are
engaged in misconduct and have broadened our ability to claw
committed to communicating information related to our approved
back remuneration from senior management in the event of
products in a responsible, legal, and ethical manner.
misconduct.
At times, researchers, HCPs, healthcare organisations (HCOs)
In 2015, GSK also implemented globally changes already made
and other external experts that we engage may be compensated
in the US to the compensation model for sales professionals and
for services and expertise provided. However, payments must
their managers who interact with HCPs. The changes eliminate
not be excessive and must never be or be perceived to be an
rewards based on sales or market shares in individuals’ territories
inducement or reward for prescribing or recommending our
in favour of rewards based on the quality of the individuals’
products. Consistent with our ABAC policies, they also must
interactions with healthcare professionals. Starting in 2016, GSK
comply with a market’s ABAC laws if the recipient of any payment
will implement its prior commitment to stop paying HCPs to deliver
is a government official.
promotional presentations for GSK or directly to sponsor their
In 2012, we paid $3 billion (£1.9 billion) to resolve government travel to medical educational conferences.
investigations in the US focused in large part on promotional
practices and in 2014 we paid RMB 3 billion (£301 million), to
resolve a government investigation in China focused on offering
money or property to non-government personnel in order to obtain
improper commercial gains.238 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk factors – continued
Research practices
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure adequately to conduct ethical and sound preclinical and We established an Office of Animal Welfare, Ethics and Strategy
clinical research. In addition, failure to engage in scientific activities (OAWES), led by the Chief of Animal Welfare, Ethics and Strategy,
that are consistent with the letter and spirit of the law, industry, or to seek to ensure the humane and responsible care of animals and
the Group’s requirements. increase the knowledge and application of non-animal alternatives
for the Group. OAWES embeds a framework of animal welfare
Risk impact
governance, promotes application of 3Rs (replacement, refinement
The impacts of the risk include harm to patients, reputational damage,
and reduction of animals in research), explores opportunities for
failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for our products,
cross-industry data sharing, and conducts quality assessments.
governmental investigation, legal proceedings brought against the
Group by governmental and private plaintiffs (product liability suits We report the results of our human subject research for our
and claims for damages), and regulatory action such as fines, medicines and vaccines on our publicly accessible clinical study
penalties or loss of product authorisation. Any of these register website, on government-required repositories, and we
consequences could materially and adversely affect our financial submit human research results as manuscripts for publication in
results. peer reviewed scientific journals. During 2015, we disclosed over
450 Clinical Study Reports of marketed and terminated medicines
Context
(once the research results were published in the scientific literature)
Research relating to animals can raise ethical concerns. While we
on our register, bringing the total reports available to over 550. By
attempt to proactively address this, animal studies remain a vital part
the end of 2015, we listed over 1,700 clinical trials on the GSK
of our research. In many cases, they are the only method that can be
online system, www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com, and have
used to investigate the effects of a potential new medicine in a living
completed our commitment to list completed global studies
body before it is tested in humans, and they are generally mandated
conducted since the formation of GSK in 2000. The online system
by regulators and ethically imperative. Animal research can provide
allows researchers to request access to anonymised patient-level
critical information about the causes of diseases and how they
data from the Group’s clinical trials after the medicine has been
develop. Some countries require additional animal testing even
approved or terminated and the trial has been published.
when medicines have been approved for use elsewhere.
We have a Global Human Biological Samples Management (HBSM)
Clinical trials in healthy volunteers and patients are used to assess
governance framework in place to oversee the ethical and lawful
and demonstrate an investigational product’s efficacy and safety
acquisition and management of human biological samples. Our
or further evaluate the product once it has been approved for
global HBSM network champions HBSM activities and provides an
marketing. We also work with human biological samples. These
experienced group to support internal Sample Custodians on best
samples are fundamental to the discovery, development and safety
practice.
monitoring of our products.
It remains an important priority to enhance our data integrity
The integrity of our data is essential to success in all stages of
controls. During 2015 we began work on a new written standard
the research data lifecycle: design, generation, recording and
to seek to ensure the integrity of our data across Research and
management, analysis, reporting and storage and retrieval. Our
Development (R&D). A Data Integrity Committee was in place
research data is governed by legislation and regulatory requirements.
throughout the year to provide oversight and a Data Integrity
Research data and supporting documents are core components at Quality Assurance team began conducting assessments intended
various stages of pipeline progression decision-making and also to provide independent business monitoring of our internal controls
form the content of regulatory submissions. Poor data integrity can for R&D activities.
compromise our research efforts.
The Chief Regulatory Officer oversees the activities of the
There are innate complexities and interdependencies required Regulatory Governance Board which includes promoting
for regulatory filings, particularly given our global research and compliance with regulatory requirements and Group-wide
development footprint. Rapid changes in submission requirements standards, making regulatory services more efficient and agile,
in developing countries continue to increase the complexity of and further aligning regulatory capabilities with our international
worldwide product registration. business needs at the enterprise and local levels.
Scientific Engagement (SE) is an essential part of scientific The Group strictly prohibits promotional practices prior to marketing
discourse defined as the interaction and exchange of information authorisation, and care is taken to seek to ensure that Scientific
between GSK and external communities in order to advance Engagement activity is not perceived to be promotional.
scientific and medical understanding, including the appropriate
Specific accountability and authorisation for Scientific Engagement
development and use of our products. Such non-promotional
resides within the Medical Governance framework that is overseen by
engagement with external stakeholder groups is vital to GSK’s
the Medical Governance Executive Committee (MGEC), accountable
mission and necessary for scientific and medical advance.
to the Chief Medical Officer. MGEC is responsible for oversight of
The scope of SE activities includes: advisory boards; scientific applicable Policies and seeking to ensure the highest level of integrity
consultancies; pre-planned informal discussions with Healthcare and continuous development of Scientific Engagement at GSK. This
Professionals (HCP); sharing medical information; publications framework seeks to ensure the right level of accountability and clear
(including abstracts to congresses); scientific interactions with programme guidance above country across R&D business units and
payers, patients, governments and the media; and support for in Local Operating Companies (LOC).
Independent Medical Education. Non-independent educational
The Group takes an integrated approach to managing both Scientific
activities are covered by Commercial Practices (CP).
Engagement and Commercial Practices related risks, including a
SE activities are essential but present legal, regulatory, and combined guidance document for Promotional Code and Scientific
reputational risk if the sharing of data, invited media coverage or Engagement standards. In this way, those considerations and risks
payments for service providers has, or is perceived to have, that are common to both Scientific Engagement and Commercial
inappropriate promotional intent. The risks are particularly high Practices such as ABAC and Healthcare Professionals (HCP)
where HCP engagement and associated Financial and/or Transfer engagements are managed in the right context and in one place
of Value disclosures are required by GSK. to seek to ensure clarity and clear lines of accountability.GSK Annual Report 2015 239
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Environment, health and safety and sustainability
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to manage EHSS risks in line with our objectives and The Corporate Executive Team is responsible for EHSS
policies and with relevant laws and regulations. governance for the Group under a global policy. Under that policy,
the CET seeks to ensure there is a control framework in place to
Risk impact
manage the risks, impacts and legal compliance issues that relate
Failure to manage EHSS risks could lead to significant harm to
to EHSS and for assigning responsibility to senior managers for
people, the environment and communities in which we operate,
providing and maintaining those controls. Individual managers seek
fines, failure to meet stakeholder expectations and regulatory
to ensure that the EHSS control framework is effective and well
requirements, litigation or regulatory action, and damage to the
implemented in their respective business area and that it is fully
Group’s reputation and could materially and adversely affect our
compliant with all applicable laws and regulations, adequately
financial results.
resourced, maintained, communicated, and monitored.
Context Additionally, each employee is personally responsible for ensuring
The Group is subject to health, safety and environmental laws of that all applicable local standard operating procedures are
various jurisdictions. These laws impose duties to protect people, followed and expected to take responsibility for EHSS matters.
the environment and the communities in which we operate as well
Our risk-based, proactive approach is articulated in our refreshed
as potential obligations to remediate contaminated sites. We have
Global EHS Standards which support our EHSS policy and
also been identified as a potentially responsible party under the
objective to discover, develop, manufacture, supply and sell our
US Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and
products without harming people or the environment. In addition
Liability Act at a number of sites for remediation costs relating to
to the design and provision of safe facilities, plant and equipment,
our use or ownership of such sites. Failure to manage these
we operate rigorous procedures that help us eliminate hazards
environmental risks properly could result in litigation, regulatory
where practicable and protect employees’ health and well-being.
action and additional remedial costs that may materially and
adversely affect our financial results. See Note 45 to the financial Through our continuing efforts to improve environmental
statements, ‘Legal proceedings’, for a discussion of the sustainability we have reduced our value chain carbon intensity
environmental related proceedings in which we are involved. We per pack, water consumption and waste generation. We actively
routinely accrue amounts related to our liabilities for such matters. manage our environmental remediation obligations and seek to
ensure practices are environmentally sustainable and compliant.
Our EHSS performance results are shared with the public each
year in our Responsible Business Supplement.
Information protection
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to protect and maintain access to critical or sensitive The Group has a global information protection policy that is
computer systems or information. supported through a dedicated programme of activity. To increase
our focus on information security, the Group established the
Risk impact
Information Protection & Privacy function to provide strategy,
Failure to adequately protect critical and sensitive systems
direction, and oversight while enhancing our global information
and information may result in loss of commercial or strategic
security capabilities.
advantage, damage to our reputation, litigation, or other business
disruption including regulatory sanction, which could materially We assess changes in our information protection risk environment
and adversely affect our financial results. through briefings by government agencies, subscription to
commercial threat intelligence services and knowledge sharing
Context
with other Pharmaceutical and cross-industry companies.
We rely on critical and sensitive systems and data, such as
corporate strategic plans, sensitive personally identifiable We aim to use industry best practices as part of our information
information, intellectual property, manufacturing systems and trade security policies, processes and technologies and invest in
secrets. There is the potential that malicious or careless actions strategies that are commensurate with the changing nature of
expose our computer systems or information to misuse or the security threat landscape.
unauthorised disclosure.
We are also subject to various laws that govern the processing
Several GSK employees were indicted for theft of GSK research of Personally Identifiable Information (Pll). the Group’s Binding
information. While the charges against the individuals are Corporate Rules (BCRs) have been approved by the UK
concerning, based on what we know, we do not believe this Information Commissioner’s Office for human resource and
breach has had any material impact on the company’s R&D activity research activities data. BCRs have been signed by 23 European
or ongoing business. GSK is conducting a full internal review into states allowing us transfer PII internationally between the Group’s
what occurred, and planning to continue to enhance the multiple entities without individual privacy agreements in each European
layers of data protection that we already have in place. Union country.240 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk factors – continued
Crisis and continuity management
Risk definition The improved linkage between commercial forecasting and
Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant finished manufacturing made possible by our Core Commercial Cycle
product; inability to recover and sustain critical operations, methodology should over time, decrease the risk associated with
including key supply chains, following a disruption, or to respond demand fluctuations impacting our ability to supply or write-offs
to a crisis incident, in a timely manner. associated with product exceeding expiry dating. During 2015,
each node of the supply chain was optimised to seek to ensure
Risk impact
adequate safety stock while balancing working capital associated
We recognise that failure to supply of our products can adversely
with the end-to-end supply chain.
impact consumers and patients who rely on them. A material
interruption of supply or exclusion from healthcare programmes Safety stocks and backup supply arrangements for medically-
could expose us to litigation or regulatory action, incurring of fines critical and high-revenue products are in place to help mitigate
or disgorgement and materially and adversely affect the Group’s this risk. In addition, the compliance of manufacturing external
financial results. The Group’s international operations, and those suppliers is routinely monitored in order to identify and manage
of its partners, maintain a vast global footprint also expose our supply base risks. Where practical, dependencies on single
workforce, facilities, operations and information technology to sources of critical items are removed. Our reliance on single
potential disruption resulting from a natural event (e.g. storm or source components has been further reduced for certain key
earthquake), a man-made event (e.g. civil unrest, terrorism), or products through qualification of alternative materials that will help
a global emergency (e.g. Ebola outbreak, Flu pandemic). It is improve supply chain robustness. In cases, where dual sourcing is
important for GSK to have robust crisis management and recovery not possible, an inventory strategy has been developed to protect
plans in place to manage such events. the supply chain from unanticipated disruption.
Context We continued to implement anti-counterfeit systems such as
Our supply chain operations are subject to review and approval by product serialisation in accordance with emerging supply chain
various regulatory agencies that effectively provide our licence to requirements around the world.
operate. Failure by our manufacturing and distribution facilities or
CCM governance for the Group is set forth in a global policy.
by suppliers of key services and materials could lead to litigation or
Under that policy, each business unit and functional area head
regulatory action such as product recalls and seizures, interruption
(‘BU’) ensures effective crisis management and business
of supply, delays in the approval of new products, and suspension
continuity plans are in place that include authorised response
of manufacturing operations pending resolution of manufacturing
and recovery strategies, key areas of responsibility and clear
or logistics issues.
communication routes before a business disruption occurs.
Materials and services provided by third-party suppliers are Additionally, each BU is represented on a CCM governance board
necessary for the commercial production of our products, which performs risk oversight and provides vital information to the
including active pharmaceutical ingredients (API), antigens, CCM programme team regarding new threats, acquisitions or
intermediates, commodities and components necessary for significant business or organisational changes.
the manufacture and packaging of many of our Pharmaceutical,
A dedicated team of CCM experts supports the business.
Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare products. Some of the
Their responsibilities include: chairing the governance board;
third-party services procured, such as services provided by
coordinating crisis management and business continuity training;
contract manufacturing organisations and clinical research
facilitating exercises and monitoring to provide for global
organisations to support development of key products, are
consistency and alignment; and centrally storing and monitoring
important to ensure continuous operation of our businesses.
updates for plans supporting our critical business processes.
Although we undertake business continuity planning, single
These activities help ensure an appropriate level of readiness and
sourcing of certain components, bulk API, finished products,
response capability is maintained. We also develop and maintain
and services creates a risk of failure of supply in the event of
partnerships with external bodies like the Business Continuity
regulatory non-compliance or physical disruption at the
Institute and the UN International Strategy for Disaster Risk
manufacturing sites or logistics system.
Reduction which helps improve our business continuity initiatives
The failure of a small number of single-source, third-party suppliers in disaster prone areas and supports the development of
or service providers to fulfil their contractual obligations in a timely community resilience to disasters.
manner or as a result of regulatory non-compliance or physical
We continue to evaluate the implications for our business of a
disruption of logistics and manufacturing sites may result in delays
possible exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union.
or service interruptions.
While the UK leaving the EU would create uncertainty and
Through effective crisis management and business continuity potentially add complexity to a wide range of our business
planning we are committed to providing for the health and safety activities, we do not currently believe that there would be a
of our people, minimising damage and impact to the Group, and material adverse impact on the Group’s results in the longer term.
maintaining functional operations following a natural or man-made
We continually improve our CCM risk management programme
disaster, or a public health emergency.
and tools based on learning from plan activations. For example,
Mitigating activities the Group has implemented a global system that provides GSK
Our supply chain model is designed to seek to ensure the supply, leaders with access to the vital information they need to effectively
quality and security of our products globally. We closely monitor, respond to disruptions and for monitoring the status of their
through the Supply Chain Governance Committees, the inventory preparedness and response capability. We regularly solicit and
status and delivery of our products to seek to ensure that our take recommendations for improvements from many different
customers have the medicines, vaccines and products they need. sources/suppliers charged with the responsibility for assisting
in managing GSK’s risks and introduce new tools to improve
our CCM practices.GSK Annual Report 2015 241
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Shareholder information
Share capital and control Share buy-back programme
The Board has been authorised to issue and allot Ordinary Shares
Details of our issued share capital and the number of shares under Article 9 of the company’s Articles of Association. The
held in Treasury as at 31 December 2015 can be found in power under Article 9 and the authority for the company to make
Note 33 to the financial statements, ‘Share capital and share purchases of its own shares are subject to shareholder authorities
premium account’. which are sought on an annual basis at our Annual General
Our Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange Meeting (AGM). Any shares purchased by the company may
and are also quoted on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) be cancelled or held as Treasury shares or used for satisfying
in the form of American Depositary Shares (ADS). Each ADS share options and grants under Group employee share plans.
represents two Ordinary Shares. For details of listed debt and Our programme covers purchases of shares for cancellation or
where it is listed refer to Note 31 to the financial statements, to be held as Treasury shares, in accordance with the authority
‘Net debt’. renewed by shareholders at the AGM in May 2015, when the
Holders of Ordinary Shares and ADS are entitled to receive company was authorised to purchase a maximum of just over
dividends (when declared), the company’s Annual Report, to 486 million shares. Details of shares purchased, those cancelled,
attend and speak at general meetings of the company, to appoint and those held as Treasury shares are disclosed in Note 33 to the
proxies and to exercise voting rights. financial statements, ‘Share capital and share premium account’.
There are no restrictions on the transfer, or limitations on the In determining specific share repurchase levels, the company
holding, of Ordinary Shares and ADS and no requirements to considers the development of free cash flow during the year. Given
obtain approval prior to any transfers. No Ordinary Shares or ADS the impact of the sustained strength of Sterling on free cash flow,
carry any special rights with regard to control of the company and the company suspended its share repurchase programme during
there are no restrictions on voting rights. Major shareholders have 2014 and no shares were purchased during the financial year
the same voting rights per share as all other shareholders. There ended 2015.
are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held The company confirms that it does not currently intend to make any
by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known further market purchases in 2016. The company will review the
agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights. potential for future share buy-backs during 2017 in line with its
Shares acquired through our share schemes and plans rank usual annual cycle and subject to return and ratings criteria.
equally with the other shares in issue and have no special rights. Market capitalisation
The trustees of our Employee Share Ownership Plan trusts have The market capitalisation, based on shares in issue excluding
waived their rights to dividends on shares held by those trusts. Treasury shares, of GSK at 31 December 2015 was £66.82 billion.
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security At that date, GSK was the third largest company by market
holders capitalisation in the FTSE index.
Other than certain economic sanctions, which may be in force
from time to time, there are currently no applicable laws, decrees Share price 2015 2014 2013
or regulations restricting the import or export of capital or affecting £ £ £
the remittance of dividends or other payments to holders of the At 1 January 13.76 16.12 13.35
company’s shares who are non-residents of the UK. Similarly, other At 31 December 13.73 13.76 16.12
than certain economic sanctions which may be in force from time to (Decrease)/increase (0.2)% (14.6)% 20.7%
time, there are no limitations relating only to non-residents of the UK High during the year 16.42 16.91 17.82
under English law or the company’s Articles of Association on the
Low during the year 12.38 13.24 13.35
right to be a holder of, and to vote in respect of, the company’s
shares. The table above sets out the middle market closing prices.
The company’s share price decreased by 0.2% in 2015. This
Interests in voting rights
compares with a decrease in the FTSE 100 index of 4.9% during
Other than as stated below, as far as we are aware, there are no
the year. The share price on 10 March 2016 was £13.86.
persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the company.
Information provided to the company pursuant to the Financial
Conduct Authority’s (FCA) Disclosure and Transparency Rules UK£ US$
(DTRs) is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on
18 75
the company’s website.
17 70
At 10 March 2016, the company had received notifications in
16 65
accordance with the FCA’s DTRs of the following notifiable
15 60
interests in the voting rights in the company’s issued share capital:
14 55
*Percentage of 13 50
No. of issued
shares capital (%) 12 45
BlackRock, Inc. 327,190,315 6.72 11 40
Legal & General Group Plc 147,931,457 3.04 10 35
* Percentage of Ordinary Shares in issue, excluding Treasury shares. 09 30
31/12/12 31/12/13 31/12/14 31/12/15
We have not acquired or disposed of any interests in our own
UK share price (UK£) US ADS price (US$)
shares during the period under review.242 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Shareholder information
continued
Nature of trading market
The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, the high and low middle market closing quotations in pence for the shares on the
London Stock Exchange, and the high and low closing prices in US dollars for the ADS on the NYSE.
Ordinary Shares ADS
Pence per share US dollars per share
High Low High Low
March 2016* 1415 1370 40.00 39.10
February 2016 1435 1346 42.10 38.50
January 2016 1439 1345 41.29 38.90
December 2015 1392 1280 41.19 39.10
November 2015 1397 1313 43.11 39.87
October 2015 1421 1268 43.53 38.74
September 2015 1339 1238 40.64 37.56
August 2015 1458 1275 45.14 39.41
Quarter ended 31 December 2015 1421 1268 43.53 38.74
Quarter ended 30 September 2015 1458 1238 45.14 37.56
Quarter ended 30 June 2015 1642 1323 48.23 41.65
Quarter ended 31 March 2015 1635 1357 48.81 41.68
Quarter ended 31 December 2014 1502 1324 47.14 41.30
Quarter ended 30 September 2014 1583 1377 54.52 45.97
Quarter ended 30 June 2014 1666 1543 56.39 51.55
Quarter ended 31 March 2014 1691 1554 56.66 50.90
Year ended 31 December 2015 1642 1238 48.81 37.56
Year ended 31 December 2014 1691 1324 56.66 41.30
Year ended 31 December 2013 1782 1335 53.68 43.47
Year ended 31 December 2012 1508 1318 47.45 41.90
Year ended 31 December 2011 1474 1128 45.74 36.33
* to 10 March 2016
Analysis of shareholdings at 31 December 2015
Number of % of total % of total Number of
accounts accounts shares shares
Holding of shares
Up to 1,000 95,993 71.02 0.66 35,453,438
1,001 to 5,000 31,335 23.18 1.25 66,940,529
5,001 to 100,000 6,754 5.00 1.77 94,807,078
100,001 to 1,000,000 724 0.53 4.68 250,764,319
Over 1,000,000 360 0.27 91.64 4,913,342,283
135,166 100.00 100.00 5,361,307,647
Held by
Nominee companies 6,430 4.76 64.67 3,467,199,262
Investment and trust companies 25 0.02 0.07 4,015,180
Insurance companies 5 0.00 0.00 4,401
Individuals and other corporate bodies 128,704 95.22 10.58 567,192,207
BNY (Nominees) Limited 1 0.00 15.51 831,380,647
Held as Treasury shares by GlaxoSmithKline 1 0.00 9.17 491,515,950
BNY Mellon is the Depositary for the company’s ADS, which are listed on the NYSE. Ordinary Shares representing the company’s
ADR programme, which is managed by the Depositary, are registered in the name of BNY (Nominees) Limited. At 10 March 2016,
BNY (Nominees) Limited held 827,207,151 Ordinary Shares representing 16.98% of the issued share capital (excluding Treasury shares)
at that date.
At 10 March 2016, the number of holders of Ordinary Shares in the US was 1,030 with holdings of 1,054,172 Ordinary Shares, and the
number of registered holders of ADS was 24,763 with holdings of 413,603,575 ADS. Certain of these Ordinary Shares and ADS were
held by brokers or other nominees. As a result, the number of holders of record or registered holders in the US is not representative of
the number of beneficial holders or of the residence of beneficial holders.GSK Annual Report 2015 243
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Dividends Financial calendar
The company pays dividends quarterly and continues to return cash
Event Date
to shareholders through its dividend policy. Dividends remain an
Quarter 1 results’ announcement April/May 2016
essential component of total shareholder return and the company
Annual General Meeting May 2016
is committed to increasing its dividend over the long-term. Details
of the dividends declared, the amounts and the payment dates are Quarter 2 results’ announcement July 2016
given in Note 16 to the financial statements, ‘Dividends’. Quarter 3 results’ announcement October 2016
Preliminary/Quarter 4 results’ announcement February 2017
GSK completed a transaction with Novartis in March 2015,
Annual Report publication February/March 2017
whereby GSK and Novartis created a new world-leading
Annual Report distribution March 2017
Consumer Healthcare business, GSK acquired Novartis’ global
Vaccines business and GSK divested its marketed Oncology Information about the company, including the share price, is available
portfolio and related R&D activities. on our website at www.gsk.com. Information made available on the
website does not constitute part of this Annual Report.
GSK plans to use the net cash transaction proceeds to fund a
return of approximately £1 billion (20p per share) to shareholders Results announcements
via a special dividend to be paid with GSK’s Q4 2015 ordinary Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange
dividend payment. and are available on its news service. They are also sent to the
US Securities and Exchange Commission and the NYSE, issued
Dividends per share
to the media and made available on our website.
The table below sets out the dividend per share and per ADS for the
last five years. The dividend per ADS is translated into US dollars at Financial reports
applicable exchange rates. The company publishes an Annual Report which is made available
on our website from the date of publication. Shareholders may
Year Dividend pence US$
elect to receive the Annual Report by contacting the registrar.
2015 Special* 20 –1
Alternatively, shareholders may elect to receive notification by
2015 80 –1 email of the publication of financial reports by registering on
2014 80 2.59 www.shareview.co.uk.
2013 78 2.47
Copies of previous financial reports are available on our website.
2012 74 2.35
Printed copies can be obtained from our registrar in the UK and
2011 70 2.25
from the GSK Response Center in the US (see pages 246 and
2011 Supplemental** 5 0.16 247 for the contact details).
1 The Q4 2015 interim ordinary dividend and special dividend Annual General Meeting 2016
receivable by ADR holders will be calculated based on the exchange
rate on 12 April 2016. The cumulative dividend receivable by ADR 2.30pm (UK time) on Thursday 5 May 2016
holders for Q1, Q2 and Q3 2015 was 1.71 US$. The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary,
Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
* The 2015 special dividend relates to the return of part of the net
cash proceeds from the Novartis transaction. The AGM is the company’s principal forum for communication
with private shareholders. In addition to the formal business,
** The 2011 supplemental dividend related to the disposal of certain
there will be a presentation by the CEO on the performance of
non-core OTC brands in North America. This was paid with the
the Group and its future development. There will be an opportunity
fourth quarter ordinary dividend for 2011.
for questions to be asked to the Board. Chairmen of the Board’s
Committees will take questions relating to those Committees.
Dividend fee for ADR holders
GSK introduced a dividend fee for ADR holders with effect from Investors holding shares through a nominee service should arrange
the Q1 2015 dividend payment, authorised under the terms of the with that nominee service to be appointed as a proxy in respect of
amended and restated Deposit Agreement. A notice was provided their shareholding in order to attend and vote at the meeting.
to registered ADR holders on 6 April 2015.
ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain a proxy
The fee was introduced to offset, in part, the costs related to from BNY Mellon, as Depositary, by notifying them of your request
SEC registration including Sarbanes-Oxley related expenses, to do so. This will enable you to attend and vote on the business
administration of the ADS Facility and the maintenance of our to be transacted. ADR holders may instruct BNY Mellon as to the
NYSE listing fees. The fee is expected to remain in place for way in which the shares represented by their ADR should be voted
future dividends. by completing and returning the voting card provided by the
Depositary.
The annual fee is currently set at $0.02 per ADR (or $0.005 per
ADR per quarter). Under the Depositary Agreement, GSK can Documents on display
charge up to 5 cent per ADR. The Articles of Association of the company and Directors’ service
contracts or, where applicable, letters of appointment between
Dividend calendar Directors and the company or any of its subsidiaries (and any side
ADS ex-dividend Ex-dividend letters relating to severance terms and pension arrangements) are
Quarter date date Record date Payment date available for inspection at the company’s registered office and will
Q4 2015 be made available for inspection at the AGM.
and special
dividend 17 February 2016 18 February 2016 19 February 2016 14 April 2016
Q1 2016 11 May 2016 12 May 2016 13 May 2016 14 July 2016
Q2 2016 10 August 2016 11 August 2016 12 August 2016 13 October 2016
Q3 2016 2 November 2016 3 November 2016 4 November 2016 12 January 2017244 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Shareholder information
continued
Tax information for shareholders Taxation of capital gains
UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the disposal
A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax
of shares or ADR. For disposals by individuals and subject to the
consequences for holders of shares and ADR who are citizens of
availability of any exemption or relief such as the annual exempt
the UK or the US is set out below. It is not a complete analysis of
amount, a taxable capital gain accruing on a disposal of shares or
all the possible tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or
ADR will be taxed at 28% if, after all allowable deductions, such
sale of these securities. It is intended only as a general guide.
shareholders’ taxable income for the tax year exceeds the basic
Holders are advised to consult their advisers with respect to the
rate income tax limit. In other cases, a taxable capital gain accruing
tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of their
on a disposal of shares or ADR may be taxed at 18% or 28% or at
shares or ADR and the consequences under state and local tax
a combination of both rates. Corporation taxpayers may be entitled
laws in the US and the implications of the current UK/US tax
to an indexation allowance which applies to reduce capital gains to
conventions.
the extent that such gains arise due to inflation. Indexation
US holders of ADR generally will be treated as the owners of the allowance may reduce a chargeable gain but will not create an
underlying shares for the purposes of the current US/UK double allowable loss.
taxation conventions relating to income and gains (Income Tax
Inheritance tax
Convention), estate and gift taxes (Estate and Gift Tax
Individual (UK-domiciled or otherwise) shareholders may be liable
Convention), and for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of
to UK inheritance tax on the transfer of shares or ADR. Tax may be
1986, as amended (the Code).
charged on the amount by which the value of the shareholder’s
UK shareholders estate is reduced as a result of any transfer by way of lifetime gift
This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that holds or other disposal at less than full market value. In the case of a
shares as capital assets. bequest on death, tax may be charged on the value of the shares
at the date of the shareholder’s death. If such a gift or other
Taxation of dividends
disposal were subject to both UK inheritance tax and US estate or
Different regimes apply to the taxation of dividend income payable
gift tax, the Estate and Gift Tax Convention would generally
to UK resident individuals in UK tax years up to 5 April 2016 and to
provide for tax paid in the US to be credited against tax payable in
those tax years commencing on or after 6 April 2016.
the UK.
For UK tax years up to and including 2015/16, UK resident
Stamp duty and Stamp Duty Reserve Tax
shareholders will generally be subject to UK income tax on the full
UK stamp duty and/or stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) will, subject
amount of dividends paid, grossed up for the amount of a tax
to certain exemptions, be payable on the transfer of shares at a
credit. The tax credit may be set against the individual’s income tax
rate of 0.5% (rounded up to the nearest £5 in the case of stamp
liability in respect of the gross dividend, but is not repayable to
duty) of the consideration for the transfer. Notwithstanding this,
shareholders with a tax liability of less than the associated tax
provided that an instrument is executed in pursuance of the
credit. To the extent that individuals’ income exceeds the basic rate
agreement that gave rise to the charge to SDRT and that
limit, but not the higher rate limit an upper dividend rate applies,
instrument is stamped within six years of the agreement (including
which is set at 32.5% of the grossed up dividend figure and for
being stamped as exempt) any SDRT charge should be cancelled
those whose income exceeds the additional rate limit of £150,000,
and any SDRT which has already been paid will be repaid.
an additional dividend rate of 37.5% will normally apply.
US shareholders
For UK tax years from 2016/17 onwards, dividend tax credits will
This summary only applies to a shareholder (who is a citizen or
no longer apply and UK resident individuals will be entitled instead
resident of the US or a domestic corporation or a person that is
to a dividend tax allowance of up to £5,000, so that the first
otherwise subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis
£5,000 of dividends received in a tax year will be free of tax.
in respect of the shares or ADR) that holds shares or ADR as
Dividends in excess of this allowance will be taxed at 7.5% for
capital assets, is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and
basic rate taxpayers, 32.5% for higher rate taxpayers and 38.1%
does not hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or
for additional rate taxpayers.
vocation that is carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
UK resident shareholders that are corporation taxpayers should
The summary also does not address the tax treatment of holders
note that dividends payable on ordinary shares are generally
that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt
entitled to exemption from corporation tax.
entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities or currencies,
persons that hold shares or ADR as part of an integrated
investment (including a ‘straddle’) comprised of a share or ADR
and one or more other positions, and persons that own (directly or
indirectly) 10% or more of the voting stock of the company, nor
does it address tax treatment that may be applicable as a result of
international income tax treaties.GSK Annual Report 2015 245
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Taxation of dividends Taxation of capital gains
The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax,
source dividend income for US tax purposes. It is not eligible for but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale
the dividend received deduction allowed to US corporations. or other disposal of shares or ADR. Such gains will be long-term
Dividends on ADR are payable in US dollars; dividends on shares capital gains (subject to reduced rates of taxation for individual
are payable in pounds Sterling. Dividends paid in pounds Sterling holders) if the shares or ADR were held for more than one year,
will be included in income in the US dollar amount calculated by from the date the shares were vested/released. Short-term capital
reference to the exchange rate on the day the dividends are gains can be subject to taxation of rates of up to 43.4%, whereas
received by the holder. Subject to certain exceptions for short-term long-term capital gains may be subject to rates of up to 23.8%.
or hedged positions, an individual eligible US holder will be subject State and local tax rates on capital gains may also apply.
to US taxation at a maximum rate of 23.8% in respect of qualified
Information reporting and backup withholding
dividends. A qualified dividend as defined by the US Internal
Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or
Revenue Service is a dividend that meets the following criteria:
ADR, paid within the US or through certain US-related financial
1. Must be issued by a US corporation, a corporation incorporated intermediaries are subject to information reporting and may be
in a US possession, or a corporation that is eligible for the subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a
benefits of a comprehensive income tax treaty deemed corporation or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer
satisfactory, as published by the IRS. identification number and certifies that no loss of exemption has
occurred. Non-US holders generally are not subject to information
2. The dividends are not listed with the IRS as dividends that do
reporting or backup withholding, but may be required to provide a
not qualify.
certification of their non-US status in connection with payments
3. The required dividend holding period has been met. The shares received. Any amounts withheld will be allowed as a refund or
must have been owned by you for more than 60 days of the credit against a holder’s US federal income tax liability provided
“holding period” – which is defined as the 121-day period that the required information is furnished to the Internal Revenue
begins 60 days before the ex-dividend date, or the day in which Service.
the stock trades without the dividend priced in. For example, if a
Estate and gift taxes
stock’s ex-dividend date is October 1, the shares must be held
Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not
for more than 60 days in the period between August 2 and
generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
November 30 of that year in order to count as a qualified
dividend. Stamp duty
UK stamp duty and/or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions,
Dividends that are not qualified are subject to taxation at the US
be payable on any transfer of shares to the ADR custodian or
federal graduated tax rates, at a maximum rate of 43.4%. Some
depository at a rate of 1.5% of the amount of any consideration
types of dividends are automatically excluded from being qualified
provided (if transferred on sale), or their value (if transferred for
dividends, even if they meet the other requirements. These include
no consideration).
(but are not limited to):
However, no stamp duty or SDRT should be payable on the
1. Capital gains distributions
transfer of, or agreement to transfer, an ADR.
2. Dividends on bank deposits
3. Dividends held by a corporation in an Employee Stock
Ownership Plan (ESOP)
4. Dividends paid by tax-exempt corporations
US state and local tax rates on qualified and non-qualified
dividends may vary and would be assessed in addition to the
federal tax rates communicated above.246 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Shareholder information
continued
Shareholder services and contacts
Registrar
The company’s registrar is:
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA
www.shareview.co.uk
Tel: 0371 384 2991 (in the UK)*
Tel: +44(0)121 415 7067 (outside the UK)
Equiniti provides a range of services for shareholders:
Service What it offers How to participate
Dividend Reinvestment Plan As an alternative to receiving cash dividends you may choose to A DRIP election form can be downloaded
(DRIP) reinvest your dividends to buy more GSK shares. from www.shareview.co.uk or
requested by telephoning Equiniti.
Dividend payment direct to your bank account If you currently receive your dividends by cheque through the post, A dividend bank mandate form can
(Bank Mandate) you can instead have them paid directly into your bank or building be downloaded from www.shareview.co.uk
society account. This is quicker, more secure and avoids the risk or requested by telephoning Equiniti.
of your cheque going astray.
Dividend payment direct to bank account for Instead of waiting for a sterling cheque to arrive by post, Equiniti For more details on this service and the costs
overseas shareholders will convert your dividend into your local currency and send it involved please contact Equiniti.
direct to your local bank account. This service is available in over
100 countries worldwide.
Electronic communications Shareholders may elect to receive electronic notifications of You can register at www.shareview.co.uk
company communications including our Annual Report, dividend
payments (if paid by way of a Bank Mandate), access to electronic
tax vouchers and the availability of online voting for all general
meetings. Each time GSK mails out hard copy shareholder
documents you will receive an email containing a link to the
document or relevant website.
Shareview portfolio service This enables you to create a free online portfolio to view your You can register at www.shareview.co.uk
share balance and movements, update your address and dividend
payment instructions and register your votes for our AGM.
Duplicate publications or mailings If you receive duplicate copies of this report or other mailings, Please contact Equiniti.
please contact Equiniti and they will arrange for your accounts to
be merged into one for your convenience and to avoid waste and
unnecessary costs.
Share dealing service† Shareholders may trade shares, either held in certificated form or For internet transactions, please log
(please note that market trading hours held in our Corporate Sponsored Nominee, by internet, telephone on to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.
are from 8.00am to 4.30pm UK time, or by a postal dealing service provided by Equiniti Financial
Monday to Friday (excluding public holidays in Services Limited. For telephone transactions, please
England and Wales)) call 0345 603 7037 (in the UK) or
+44 (0)121 415 7560 (outside the UK).
For postal transactions, please call
0371 384 2991* to request a
dealing form.
Corporate Sponsored Nominee Account This is a convenient way to manage your shares without requiring An application form can be requested
a share certificate. The service provides a facility for you to hold from www.shareview.co.uk or
your shares in a nominee company sponsored by the company. by telephoning Equiniti on
You will continue to receive dividend payments, annual reports and 0371 384 2991*.
can attend and vote at the company’s general meetings.
Shareholders’ names do not appear on the publicly available share
register and the service is free to join.
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)† The company has arranged for Equiniti Financial Services Limited Details are available from
to provide a GSK Corporate ISA to hold GSK Ordinary Shares. www.shareview.co.uk or can be
requested by telephoning Equiniti,
on 0345 300 0430. Lines are open 8.00am
to 4.30pm for dealing, and until 6.00pm
for enquiries Monday to Friday (excluding
public holidays in England and Wales).
* UK lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday (excluding public holidays in England and Wales).
† The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity.
Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker or independent financial adviser.GSK Annual Report 2015 247
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
ADR Depositary Contacts
Investor relations
The ADR programme is administered by The Bank of New
York Mellon: Investor relations may be contacted as follows:
UK BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
980 Great West Road
PO Box 30170
Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS
College Station, TX 77842-3170
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Overnight correspondence should be sent to:
US
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
5 Crescent Drive
211 Quality Circle, Suite 210
Philadelphia PA 19112
College Station, TX 77845
Tel: +1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
www.mybnymdr.com Tel: +1 215 751 4611 (outside the US)
Tel: +1 877 353 1154 (US toll free)
Tel: +1 201 680 6825 (outside the US) GSK Response Center
email: shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com Tel: +1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
The Depositary also provides Global BuyDIRECT†, a direct ADS Share scam alert
purchase/sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADR holders. If you receive an unsolicited telephone call offering to sell or buy
For details of how to enrol please visit www.mybnymdr.com or your shares, please take extra care. The caller may be part of a
call the above helpline number to obtain an enrolment pack. highly organised financial scam.
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham If you are a UK shareholder, please contact the Financial Conduct
Corporate PEPs Authority for further information on this, or other similar activities,
The Share Centre Limited at www.fca.org.uk/consumers or on its consumer helpline:
Oxford House, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8SZ Tel: 0800 111 6768 (in the UK)*
Tel: +44 (0)1296 414 141 Tel: +44 20 7066 1000 (outside the UK)
www.share.com * Lines are open from 8.00am to 6.00pm, UK time,
Monday to Friday, except UK public holidays,
Donating shares to Save the Children
and 9.00am to 1.00pm on Saturdays.
In 2013, GSK embarked on an ambitious global partnership with
Save the Children to share our expertise and resources with the Responsible Business Supplement
aim of helping to save the lives of one million children. We are publishing our Responsible Business Supplement 2015
online. This will outline GSK’s approach to, and performance in,
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which
our key responsible business areas, Health for all, Our behaviour,
makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them
Our people and Our planet.
to Save the Children. Donated shares will be aggregated and sold
by Save the Children who will use the funds raised to help them
reach the above goal.†
To obtain a share donation form, please contact our registrar,
Equiniti, who is managing the donation and sale of UK shares
to Save the Children free of charge.
† The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an
invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity.
Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker
or independent financial adviser.248 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Other statutory disclosures
US law and regulation • they have disclosed in the annual report on Form 20-F any
changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the
A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to the
period covered by the annual report on Form 20-F that have
company because our shares are quoted on the New York Stock
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially,
Exchange (NYSE) in the form of ADSs.
the company’s internal control over financial reporting, and they
NYSE rules have disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of internal
In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK control over financial reporting, to the external auditors and the
corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the ARC, all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
US, provided that we explain any significant variations. This design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting
explanation is contained in our Form 20-F, which can be accessed which are reasonably likely to affect adversely the company’s
from the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) EDGAR ability to record, process, summarise and report financial
database or via our website. NYSE rules that came into effect in information, and any fraud (regardless of materiality) involving
2005 require us to file annual and interim written affirmations persons that have a significant role in the company’s internal
concerning the Audit & Risk Committee and our statement on control over financial reporting.
significant differences in corporate governance.
The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and with the participation of its management, including the CEO
Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation
the US, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. of the Group’s disclosure controls and procedures as at
Sarbanes-Oxley is a wide-ranging piece of legislation concerned 31 December 2015.
largely with financial reporting and corporate governance.
There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system
As recommended by the SEC, the company has established of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility
a Disclosure Committee. The Committee reports to the CEO, of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls
the CFO and to the Audit & Risk Committee. It is chaired by the and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls
Company Secretary and the members consist of senior managers and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of
from finance, legal, corporate communications and investor achieving their control objectives.
relations.
The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certifications and
External legal counsel, the external auditors and internal experts are report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure controls
invited to attend its meetings periodically. It has responsibility for and procedures in March 2016, following which the certificates
considering the materiality of information and, on a timely basis, will be filed with the SEC as part of our Group’s Form 20-F.
determining the disclosure of that information. It has responsibility
Section 404: Management’s annual report on internal control
for the timely filing of reports with the SEC and the formal review
over financial reporting
of the Annual Report and Form 20-F. In 2015, the Committee met
In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of Sarbanes-
14 times.
Oxley, the following report is provided by management in respect
Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the annual report on Form 20-F of the company’s internal control over financial reporting (as
contain a statement as to whether a member of our Audit & Risk defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the US Securities
Committee (ARC) is an audit committee financial expert as defined Exchange Act of 1934):
by Sarbanes-Oxley. Such a statement for each of the relevant
• management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
members of the ARC (Stacey Cartwright and Judy Lewent) is
adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group.
included in the Audit & Risk Committee report on page 89 and
Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide
in their biographies on page 76. Additional disclosure
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
requirements arise under section 302 and section 404 of
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
Sarbanes-Oxley in respect of disclosure controls and procedures
purposes in accordance with IFRS
and internal control over financial reporting.
• management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of
Section 302: Corporate responsibility for financial reports
internal control over financial reporting based on the framework,
Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and
Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by
the CFO to complete formal certifications, confirming that:
the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway
• they have each reviewed the annual report on Form 20-F Commission (COSO)
• based on their knowledge, the annual report on Form 20-F • there have been no changes in the Group’s internal control over
contains no material misstatements or omissions financial reporting during 2015 that have materially affected,
or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the Group’s internal
• based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other
control over financial reporting
financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as of • management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control
the dates, and for the periods, presented in the annual report over financial reporting as at 31 December 2015 and its
on Form 20-F conclusion will be filed as part of the Group’s Form 20-F, and
• they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, which has audited the consolidated
controls and procedures that ensure that material information is financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December
made known to them, and have evaluated the effectiveness of 2015, has also assessed the effectiveness of the Group’s internal
these controls and procedures as at the year-end, the results of control over financial reporting under Auditing Standard No. 5 of
such evaluation being contained in the annual report on Form 20-F the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Their audit report will be filed with the Group’s Form 20-F.
• they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal
control over financial reporting that provides reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principlesGSK Annual Report 2015 249
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Section 13(r) of the US Securities Exchange Act Donations to political organisations and
Section 13(r) of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as political expenditure
amended, requires issuers to make specific disclosure in their
annual reports of certain types of dealings with Iran, including With effect from 1 January 2009, to ensure a consistent approach
transactions or dealings with government-owned entities, as well to political contributions across the Group, we introduced a global
as dealings with entities sanctioned for activities related to policy to stop voluntarily all corporate political contributions.
terrorism or proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, even
In the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2015, the Group
when those activities are not prohibited by US law and do not
did not make any political donations to EU or non-EU organisations.
involve US persons. The Group does not have a legal entity based
in Iran, but it does export certain pharmaceutical and vaccine Notwithstanding the introduction of this policy, in accordance with
products to Iran, via sales by non-US entities, to two privately held the Federal Election Campaign Act in the US, we continue to
Iranian distributors. The Group also does business, via non-US support an employee-operated Political Action Committee (PAC)
entities, in other jurisdictions targeted by sanctions laws, including that facilitates voluntary political donations by eligible GSK
Syria, Crimea, North Korea and Sudan. employees.
We do not believe that any of the Group’s direct dealings with The PAC is not controlled by GSK. Decisions on the amounts and
Iran require specific disclosure under these requirements, and the recipients of contributions are made by participating employees
Group limits sales to Iran, North Korea, Syria, Sudan and Cuba to exercising their legal right to pool their resources and make
essential medicines (determined in part using criteria set by the political contributions, which are subject to strict limitations.
World Health Organization). The Group has no direct knowledge In 2015, a total of US$446,727 (2014 – US$525,900) was
of the identity of its distributors’ downstream customers in Iran, donated to political organisations by the GSK employee PAC.
and it is possible that these customers include entities, such as
At the AGM in May 2001, shareholders first authorised the
government-owned hospitals and pharmacies, that are owned
company to make donations to EU political organisations and to
or controlled directly or indirectly by the Iranian government or
incur EU political expenditure, under the provisions of the Political
by persons or entities sanctioned in connection with terrorism
Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to £100,000
or proliferation activities. Because the Group has no direct
each year. This authority has since been renewed annually. The
knowledge of its distributors’ customers, it cannot establish the
Companies Act 2006 requires companies to continue to obtain
proportion of gross revenue or sales potentially attributable to
shareholder approval before they can make donations to EU
entities affiliated with the Iranian government or parties sanctioned
political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
for disclosable activities. As a result, the Group is reporting the
entire gross revenues (£nil) and net losses (£0.41 million) However, we do not make and do not intend to make donations to
from the Group’s sales to Iran in 2015. political parties or independent election candidates, nor do we
make any donations to EU political organisations or incur EU
The Group is also aware that some hospitals or other medical
political expenditure.
facilities in Lebanon may be affiliated with or controlled by
Hezbollah, which is designated by the United States as a terrorist The definitions of political donations, political expenditure and
organisation. Again, the Group does not deal directly with such political organisations used in the legislation are very wide. In
facilities and sells through distributors. The Group is also unable particular, the definition of EU political organisations may extend
to identify with certainty the degree or nature of any affiliation of to bodies such as those concerned with policy review, law reform,
the end customers with Hezbollah, and the Group is unable to the representation of the business community and special interest
establish the proportion of gross revenue or sales potentially groups such as those concerned with the environment, which the
attributable to reportable entities. As a result, the Group is company and its subsidiaries might wish to support. As a result,
reporting the entire gross revenues (£37 million) and net profits the definitions may cover legitimate business activities not in the
(£15 million) from the Group’s sales to Lebanon in 2015. ordinary sense considered to be political donations or political
expenditure.
Such activities are not designed to support any political party or
independent election candidate. The authority which the Board
has sought annually is a precautionary measure to ensure that
the company and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently breach
the legislation.250 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Other statutory disclosures
continued
Group companies
In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and joint arrangements,
the country of incorporation and effective percentage of equity owned, as at 31 December 2015 are disclosed below. Unless otherwise
stated the share capital disclosed comprises ordinary shares which are indirectly held by GlaxoSmithKline plc. All subsidiary companies
are resident for tax purposes in their country of incorporation unless otherwise stated.
Country of Effective % % Held by
Name incorporation Ownership Security Class of Share
Wholly owned subsidiaries
1506369 Alberta ULC Canada 100 Common 100
Action Potential Venture Capital Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Adechsa GmbH Switzerland 100 Ordinary 100
Affymax Research Institute United States 100 Common 100
Alenfarma – Especialidades Farmaceuticas, Limitada (iv) Portugal 100 Ordinary Quota 100
Allen & Hanburys Limited (iv) England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Allen & Hanburys Pharmaceutical Nigeria Limited Nigeria 100 Ordinary 100
Allen Farmaceutica, S.A. Spain 100 Ordinary 100
Allen Pharmazeutika Gesellschaft m.b.H. Austria 100 Ordinary 100
Aners S.A (iv) Argentina 100 Non-endorsable Nominative
Ordinary 100
Barrier Therapeutics, Inc. United States 100 Common 100
Beecham Group p l c England & Wales 100 20p Shares 'A'; 5p Shares B 100
Beecham Pharmaceuticals (Pte) Limited Singapore 100 Ordinary 100
Beecham Pharmaceuticals S.A (iv) (vi) Ecuador 100 Nominative 100
Beecham Portuguesa-Produtos Farmaceuticos e Quimicos, Lda Portugal 100 Ordinary Quota 100
Beecham S.A. (iv) Belgium 100 Ordinary 100
Biddle Sawyer Limited India 100 Equity 100
Biovesta Ilaçlari Ltd. Sti. Turkey 100 Nominative 100
Burroughs Wellcome & Co (Australia) Pty Limited (iv) (vi) Australia 100 Ordinary 100
Burroughs Wellcome & Co (Bangladesh) Limited Bangladesh 100 Ordinary 100
Burroughs Wellcome International Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Caribbean Chemical Company, Ltd. Cayman Islands 100 Ordinary 100
(will be struck off on 31.03.16)
Cascan GmbH & Co. KG Germany 100 Ordinary 100
Castleton Investment Ltd (vi) Mauritius 100 Ordinary 100
Cellzome GmbH Germany 100 Ordinary 100
Cellzome Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Cellzome Therapeutics, Inc. (iv) United States 100 Ordinary 100
Cellzome, Inc. United States 100 Ordinary 100
Series A Preferred 100
Series B Preferred 100
Series C-1 Convertible Preferred 100
Series C-3 Convertible Preferred 100
Charles Midgley Limited (iv) England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Cumulative Preference 100
Clarges Pharmaceuticals Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Preference 99.97
Colleen Corporation United States 100 Shares – No Par Value (Common) 100
Corixa Corporation United States 100 Common 100
Coulter Pharmaceutical, Inc. (iv) United States 100 Common 100
Dealcyber Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Desarrollo Energia Solar Alternativa S.L. Spain 100 Ordinary 100
Domantis Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Duncan Flockhart Australia Pty Limited (iv) (vi) Australia 100 Ordinary 100
Duncan Pharmaceuticals Philippines Inc. Philippines 100 Common 100
Edinburgh Pharmaceutical Industries Limited Scotland 100 Ordinary; Preference 100
Eskaylab Limited England & Wales 100 10p Ordinary 100
Etex Farmaceutica Ltda Chile 100 Social Capital 100
Europharm Holding S.A. Romania 100 Nominative 100
Europharm S.A. Romania 100 Nominative 100
Fedialis Medica S.A.S. France 100 Ordinary 100
Fipar (Thailand) Ltd (In liquidation) Thailand 100 Ordinary 100
Genelabs Technologies, Inc. United States 100 Common 100
Glaxo AS (iv) Norway 100 Ordinary 100
Glaxo Group Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Glaxo Kabushiki Kaisha (iv) Japan 100 Ordinary 100GSK Annual Report 2015 251
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group companies continued
Country of Effective % % Held by
Name incorporation Ownership Security Class of Share
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
Glaxo Laboratories (Nigeria) Limited (iv) Nigeria 100 Ordinary 100
Glaxo Laboratories Limited (iv) England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Glaxo Operations UK Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Glaxo Properties BV Netherlands 100 Ordinary 100
Glaxo Verwaltungs GmbH (vi) Germany 100 Ordinary 100
Glaxo Wellcome Australia Pty Ltd (iv) (vi) Australia 100 Ordinary 100
Glaxo Wellcome Ceylon Limited Sri Lanka 100 Ordinary 100
Ordinary B 100
Glaxo Wellcome Farmaceutica, Limitada Portugal 100 Ordinary Quota 100
Glaxo Wellcome Holdings Limited (In liquidation) England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Glaxo Wellcome International B.V. (v) Netherlands 100 Ordinary 100
Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Singapore 100 Ordinary 100
Glaxo Wellcome Production S.A.S. France 100 Ordinary 100
Glaxo Wellcome PST Pty Ltd (iv) (vi) Australia 100 Ordinary 100
Glaxo Wellcome UK Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Glaxo Wellcome Vidhyasom Limited (iv) Thailand 100 Ordinary 100
Glaxo Wellcome, S.A. Spain 100 Ordinary 100
Glaxo, S.A. Spain 100 Ordinary 100
Glaxo-Allenburys (Nigeria) Limited (iv) Nigeria 100 Ordinary 100
Glaxochem (UK) Unlimited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Ordinary B 100
Ordinary C 100
Glaxochem Pte Ltd (v) Singapore 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline – Produtos Farmaceuticos, Limitada Portugal 100 Ordinary Quota 100
GlaxoSmithKline (Cambodia) Co., Ltd. Cambodia 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline (China) Investment Co Ltd China 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline (China) R&D Company Limited China 100 Equity 100
GlaxoSmithKline (Cyprus) Limited Cyprus 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) S.R.L. Romania 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ireland 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline (Israel) Ltd Israel 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline (Malta) Limited Malta 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline (Private) Limited (iv) Zimbabwe 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline (Thailand) Limited Thailand 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline A.E.B.E. Greece 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline AB Sweden 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline AG Switzerland 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Algérie S.P.A. Algeria 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. Argentina 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline AS Norway 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Asia Pvt. Limited India 100 Equity 100
GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline B.V. Netherlands 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Beteiligungs GmbH Germany 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals (Shanghai) Ltd. China 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd (iv) China 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Kft. Hungary 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A.S. France 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA Belgium 100 Ordinary; Preference 100
GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada Brazil 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Business Services S.A. (iv) (vi) Costa Rica 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. United States 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Caribbean Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Chile Farmaceutica Limitada Chile 100 Social Capital 100
GlaxoSmithKline Colombia S.A. Colombia 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Investments Ireland 100 Ordinary 100
(Ireland) Limited (ii) (v)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Ireland IP Limited (ii) (v) Ireland 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Pakistan Limited Pakistan 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sri Lanka England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Holdings Limited (iv)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Holding B.V. Netherlands 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline d.o.o Bosnia and 100 Euro Quota 100
Herzegovina252 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Other statutory disclosures
continued
Group companies continued
Country of Effective % % Held by
Name incorporation Ownership Security Class of Share
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GlaxoSmithKline d.o.o. Croatia 100 Equity 100
GlaxoSmithKline doo Beograd Serbia 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Ecuador S.A. Ecuador 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Eesti OU Estonia 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline ehf Iceland 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline El Salvador S.A. de C.V. El Salvador 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline EOOD Bulgaria 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Export Panama S.A. Panama 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Far East B.V. Netherlands 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG Germany 100 Partnership Capital 100
GlaxoSmithKline Guatemala S.A. Guatemala 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Holding AS Norway 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc. United States 100 Common 100
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Ireland) Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary; Deferred 100
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited (i) England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited (i) England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Honduras S.A. Honduras 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline IHC Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Turkey 100 Nominative 100
GlaxoSmithKline Inc. Canada 100 Class A Common 100
Class C Preference 100
GlaxoSmithKline Insurance Ltd. Bermuda 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.2) Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Development Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Holdings Limited England & Wales 100 A Ordinary; B Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary; Deferred 100
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Management Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline International Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Investigación y Desarrollo, S.L. Spain 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Investment Holdings Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Investment Services Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Investments (Ireland) Limited (ii) (v) Ireland 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Investments Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Japan 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited South Korea 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Latin America, S.A. Panama 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Latvia SIA Latvia 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Lietuva UAB Lithuania 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Limited Hong Kong 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline LLC United States 100 LLC Interests 100
GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing SpA Italy 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Maroc S.A. Morocco 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Medical and Healthcare Products Limited Hungary 100 Ordinary Quotas 100
GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited (i) England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Mexico S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 Ordinary A; Ordinary B 100
GlaxoSmithKline NZ Limited New Zealand 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Oy Finland 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Peru S.A. Peru 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S Denmark 100 Class A 100
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH Austria 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Kenya Limited Kenya 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Nigeria Limited Nigeria 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals (Pvt) Ltd (iv) Sri Lanka 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals (Suzhou) Limited China 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Costa Rica S.A Costa Rica 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. Poland 100 Ordinary A; Ordinary B; 100
Ordinary C; Ordinary D 100GSK Annual Report 2015 253
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group companies continued
Country of Effective % % Held by
Name incorporation Ownership Security Class of Share
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA Belgium 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Ukraine LLC Ukraine 100 Chartered Capital 100
GlaxoSmithKline Philippines Inc Philippines 100 Common 100
GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd Singapore 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Puerto Rico Inc. (iv) Puerto Rico 100 Common 100
GlaxoSmithKline Republica Dominicana S.A. Dominican Republic 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline S.A. Spain 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. Italy 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o. Czech Republic 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Services GmbH & Co. KG (vi) Germany 100 Partnership Capital 100
GlaxoSmithKline Services Inc. (iv) United States 100 Common 100
GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited (i) England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline SL Holdings, LLC United States 100 LLC Interests 100
GlaxoSmithKline SL LLC United States 100 LLC Interests 100
GlaxoSmithKline SL LP (iv) England & Wales 100 Partnership 100
GlaxoSmithKline Slovakia s.r.o. Slovakia 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline South Africa (Pty) Limited South Africa 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Superannuation Company Pty Ltd (iv) (vi) Australia 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (ii) (v) Ireland 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Trading ZAO Russia 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Tunisia S.A.R.L. Tunisia 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Uruguay S.A. Uruguay 100 Registered Shares Provisory
Stock 100
GlaxoSmithKline Venezuela C.A. Venezuela 100 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Vietnam Limited Liability Company (iv) Vietnam 100 Equity Capital 100
Glycovaxyn AG (iv) (vi) Switzerland 100 Common; Preferred A, 100
Preferred B; Preferred C 100
Group Laboratories South Africa (Pty) Limited (iv) (vi) South Africa 100 Ordinary 100
Groupe GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. France 100 Ordinary 100
GSK Business Service Centre Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 Ordinary 100
GSK Commercial Sp. z o.o. Poland 100 Ordinary 100
GSK d.o.o., Ljubljana Slovenia 100 Ordinary 100
GSK Employee Share Plan Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary 100
GSK Kazakhstan LLP Kazakhstan 100 Partnership Interest 100
GSK Services Sp z o.o. Poland 100 Ordinary 100
GSK Vaccines GmbH Germany 100 Ordinary 100
GSK Vaccines Institute for Global Health S.r.l. Italy 100 Quota 100
GSK Vaccines S.r.l. Italy 100 Quota 100
GSK Vaccines Vertriebs GmbH Germany 100 Ordinary 100
Herbridge (ii) (iv) (vi) Ireland 100 Ordinary 100
HGS France S.a.r.l. France 100 Ordinary 100
HGS Luxembourg LLC (iv) (vi) United States 100 Common Interests 100
Horlicks Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Human Genome Sciences Pacific Pty Ltd (vi) Australia 100 Ordinary 100
Human Genome Sciences, Inc. United States 100 Common 100
ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec Canada 100 Common 100
ID Biomedical Corporation of Washington (iv) United States 100 Common 100
Instituto Luso Farmaco, Limitada (iv) Portugal 100 Ordinary Quota 100
InterPharma Dienstleistungen GmbH Austria 100 Quota 100
J&J Technologies, LC (iv) United States 100 Membership Interest 100
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline France 100 Ordinary 100
Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien LPA Production SPA Algeria 100 Ordinary 100
Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien SPA Algeria 100 Ordinary 100
Laboratoires Paucourt (iv) France 100 Ordinary 100
Laboratoires Saint-Germain (iv) France 100 Ordinary 100
Laboratorios Dermatologicos Darier, S.A de C.V. Mexico 100 Ordinary A; Ordinary B 100
Laboratorios Farmaceuticos Stiefel (Portugal) LTDA (iv) Portugal 100 Ordinary Quota 100
Laboratorios Phoenix Sociedad Anonima Industrial Argentina 100 Non-endorsable Nominative
Comercial Y Financiera Ordinary Shares 100
Laboratorios Stiefel de Chile & CIA LTDA Chile 100 Social Capital 100
Laboratorios Stiefel de Venezuela SA Venezuela 100 Ordinary 100254 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Other statutory disclosures
continued
Group companies continued
Country of Effective % % Held by
Name incorporation Ownership Security Class of Share
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
Laboratorios Stiefel Ltda. Brazil 100 Ordinary 100
Laboratorios Wellcome De Portugal Limitada (iv) Portugal 100 Ordinary Quota 100
Laboratorios Wellcome S.A. (In liquidation) Uruguay 100 Ordinary 100
Maxinutrition Limited (In liquidation) England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Mixis Genetics Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Ordinary Euro 100
Montrose Fine Chemical Company Ltd Scotland 100 Ordinary 100
Montrose Pharma Company Limited Hungary 100 Ordinary Quota 100
Montrose Pharma UAB (iv) Lithuania 100 Ordinary 100
Nanjing Meirui Pharma Co. Ltd China 100 Ordinary 100
Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics AG (vi) Switzerland 100 Ordinary 100
Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary 100
Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics S.L. (vi) Spain 100 Ordinary 100
Okairos AG (iv) (vi) Switzerland 100 Common; Preferred A; 100
Preferred B 100
Penn Labs Inc. (iv) United States 100 Common 100
S.R. One International B.V. Netherlands 100 Ordinary 100
S.R. One, Limited United States 100 Units (Common) 100
Setfirst Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Smith Kline & French Laboratories Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Smith Kline & French Portuguesa-Produtos Portugal 100 Ordinary Quota 100
Farmaceuticos, LDA (iv)
SmithKline Beecham (Australia) Pty Ltd (iv) (vi) Australia 100 Ordinary 100
SmithKline Beecham (Bangladesh) Private Limited (iv) Bangladesh 100 Ordinary 100
SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Limited (ii) Ireland 100 Ordinary 100
SmithKline Beecham (Export) Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
SmithKline Beecham (H) Limited England & Wales 100 Non-Cumulative
Non-Redeemable 100
Ordinary 100
SmithKline Beecham (Investments) Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
SmithKline Beecham (Manufacturing) Limited (ii) Ireland 100 Ordinary 100
SmithKline Beecham (SWG) Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
SmithKline Beecham Animal Health Company Canada 100 Common 100
SmithKline Beecham Biologicals US Partnership United States 100 Partnership Interests 100
SmithKline Beecham Egypt L.L.C. Egypt 100 Quotas 100
SmithKline Beecham Farma, S.A. Spain 100 Ordinary 100
SmithKline Beecham Holdings (Australia) Pty. Limited (iv) (vi) Australia 100 Ordinary A; Ordinary B 100
SmithKline Beecham Inter-American Corporation (iv) United States 100 Shares No par Value (Common) 100
SmithKline Beecham Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 6.25p 100
SmithKline Beecham Marketing and Technical Services Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
SmithKline Beecham Nominees Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
SmithKline Beecham Overseas Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
SmithKline Beecham Pension Plan Trustee Limited (iv) England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
SmithKline Beecham Pension Trustees Limited (iv) England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
SmithKline Beecham Pharma GmbH & Co KG Germany 100 Partnership Capital 100
SmithKline Beecham Pharma Verwaltungs GmbH Germany 100 Ordinary 100
SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals (Pty) Limited (iv) (vi) South Africa 100 Ordinary 100
SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals Co. United States 100 Shares No par Value (Common) 100
SmithKline Beecham Port Louis Limited (vi) Mauritius 100 Ordinary 100
SmithKline Beecham Retirement Plan (Nominees) Australia 100 Ordinary 100
Pty Limited (iv) (vi)
SmithKline Beecham Senior Executive Pension Plan England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Trustee Limited (iv)
Stiefel Distributors (Ireland) Limited (ii) (iv) Ireland 100 Ordinary 100
Stiefel Dominicana SRL (iv) Dominican Republic 100 Ordinary Quotas 100
Stiefel Farma, S.A Spain 100 Ordinary 100
Stiefel GmbH & Co. KG Germany 100 Partnership Capital 100
Stiefel India Private Limited India 100 Equity 100
Stiefel Laboratories (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ireland 100 Ordinary 100
Stiefel Laboratories (Maidenhead) Ltd England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Stiefel Laboratories (Thailand) Ltd. (Liquidated 25 Jan 2016) Thailand 100 Ordinary; Preference 100
Stiefel Laboratories (U.K.) Ltd England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Stiefel Laboratories Limited (iv) England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100GSK Annual Report 2015 255
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group companies continued
Country of Effective % % Held by
Name incorporation Ownership Security Class of Share
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
Stiefel Laboratories Pte Limited Singapore 100 Ordinary 100
Stiefel Laboratories Pty Ltd (iv) (vi) Australia 100 Ordinary 100
Stiefel Laboratories SA (Pty) Ltd (iv) (vi) South Africa 100 Ordinary 100
Stiefel Laboratories Taiwan Ltd (Liquidated 5 Jan 2016) Taiwan 100 Ordinary 100
Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. United States 100 Common 100
Stiefel Maroc SARL Morocco 100 Ordinary 100
Stiefel Polska SP Z O.O. w likwidacji (In liquidation) Poland 100 Ordinary 100
Stiefel Research (Australia) Holdings Pty Ltd (iv) Australia 100 Ordinary 100
Stiefel Research Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ordinary 100
Stiefel Research Institute, Inc. (vi) United States 100 Common 100
Stiefel Sales, Inc. (iv) (vi) United States 100 Common 100
Stiefel West Coast LLC United States 100 LLC Interests 100
Strebor Inc. United States 100 USD 1 par value (Common) 100
Tempero Pharmaceuticals, Inc. United States 100 Series A Preference 100
Series B Preference; Common 100
The Sydney Ross Co. (iv) United States 100 Ordinary 100
The Wellcome Foundation Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
UCB Pharma (Thailand) Ltd (Liquidated 25 Jan 2016) Thailand 100 Ordinary 100
UCB Pharma Asia Pacific Sdn Bhd (iv) Malaysia 100 Ordinary 100
Webderm, Inc. (iv) (vi) United States 100 Common 100
Wellcome Consumer Healthcare Limited (iv) England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Wellcome Consumer Products Limited (iv) England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Wellcome Developments Pty Ltd (iv) (vi) Australia 100 Ordinary 100
Wellcome Limited England & Wales 100 Ordinary 100
Wellcome Operations Pty Ltd (iv) (vi) Australia 100 Ordinary 100
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100%
Amoun Pharmaceutical Industries Co. S.A.E. Egypt 99.5 New Monetary Shares 99.5
Beecham Enterprises Inc. (iv) United States 55.9 Common 100
Block Drug Company, Inc. United States 63.5 Common 100
British Pharma Group Limited England & Wales 50 Capital 50
Block Drug Corporation (iv) United States 63.5 Common No Par Value 100
de Miclén a.s. Slovakia 63.5 Ordinary 100
Duncan Consumer Healthcare Philippines Inc Philippines 63.5 Common 100
Ex-Lax, Inc. Puerto Rico 63.5 Common 100
Fondation Novartis Consumer Health Pour I'Avancement Switzerland 63.5 Capital 63.5
Des Sciences Medicales, Biologiques Et Pharmaceutiques
Glaxo Saudi Arabia Limited Saudi Arabia 49 Ordinary 49
GlaxoSmithKline (Tianjin) Co. Ltd China 90 Ordinary 90
GlaxoSmithKline Bangladesh Limited Bangladesh 82 Ordinary 82
GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Produtos para Consumo e Saude Ltda Brazil 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (China) Co. Ltd China 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ireland 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Overseas) Limited England & Wales 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Thailand) Limited Thailand 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) IP Limited England & Wales 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) Trading Limited England & Wales 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (US) IP LLC United States 63.5 LLC Interests 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare A/S Denmark 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare AB Sweden 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare AG Switzerland 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Argentina S.A. (iv) Argentina 63.5 Nominative non endorseable
Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Australia Pty ltd Australia 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare B.V. Netherlands 63.5 Ordinary A 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Canada Corp Canada 63.5 Common 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Colombia SAS Colombia 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Czech Republic s.r.o. Czech Republic 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Finance Limited England & Wales 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Finland Oy Finland 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH Austria 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co. KG Germany 63.5 Partnership Capital 100256 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Other statutory disclosures
continued
Group companies continued
Country of Effective % % Held by
Name incorporation Ownership Security Class of Share
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Greece Societe Greece 63.5 Ordinary 100
Anonyme
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings (US) LLC United States 63.5 LLC Interests 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited England & Wales 63.5 Ordinary A 100
Ordinary B 0
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Inc. Canada 63.5 Common 100
Preferred 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Investments Ireland 63.5 Ordinary 100
(Ireland) (No 2) (ii) (v)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Investments Ireland 63.5 Ordinary 100
(Ireland) (No 3) Limited (ii) (v)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Japan K.K. Japan 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Korea Co., Ltd. Korea 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare L.L.C. United States 63.5 LLC Interests 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited India 72.5 Equity 72.5
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Mexico, S. De R.L. de C.V. Mexico 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare New Zealand Limited New Zealand 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Norway AS Norway 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Philippines Inc Philippines 63.5 Common 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Pte. Ltd. Singapore 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.A. Belgium 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.A. Spain 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.p.A. Italy 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Slovakia s. r. o. Slovakia 63.5 Ownership Interest 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare South Africa Pty (Ltd) South Africa 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sp.z.o.o. Poland 63.5 Common 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare SRL Romania 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. United States 55.9 Partnership Interest 55.9
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, Produtos para Portugal 63.5 Ordinary Quota 100
a Saude e Higiene, Lda
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Nigeria plc (iii) Nigeria 46.4 Ordinary 46.4
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Private Limited India 63.5 Equity 100
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Trading Services Limited England & Wales 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Costa Rica S.A. Costa Rica 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Dungarvan Limited (ii) Ireland 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare AO Russia 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare GmbH Germany 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare Ukraine O.O.O. Ukraine 63.5 Ownership Interest 100
GlaxoSmithKline Landholding Company, Inc Philippines 39.9 Common 100
GlaxoSmithKline Limited Kenya 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline OTC (PVT.) Limited Pakistan 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited Pakistan 82.6 Ordinary 82.6
GlaxoSmithKline Panama S.A. Panama 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Paraguay S.A. Paraguay 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited India 75 Equity 75
GlaxoSmithKline S.A.E. Egypt 91.2 Ordinary 91.2
GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Public SAS France 63.5 Ordinary 100
GlaxoSmithKline Tuketici Sagligi Anonim Sirketi Turkey 63.5 Nominative 100
GlaxoSmithKline-Consumer Hungary Limited Liability Company Hungary 63.5 Membership 100
GSK Consumer Healthcare Singapore Pte. Ltd Singapore 63.5 Ordinary 100
Iodosan S.p.A. Italy 63.5 Ordinary 100
Kuhs GmbH Germany 63.5 Equity 100
Laboratorios ViiV Healthcare, S.L. Spain 78.3 Ordinary 100
Modern Pharma Trading Company L.L.C. Egypt 98.2 Quotas 98.2
Novartis Consumer Health Australasia Pty Ltd Australia 63.5 Ordinary 100
Redeemable Preference 100
Novartis Consumer Health Canada Inc./Novartis Sante Canada 63.5 Common 100
Familiale Canada, Inc.
Novartis Consumer Health GmbH Germany 38.1 Ordinary 100
Novartis Consumer Health LLC Russia 63.5 Participation Interest 100GSK Annual Report 2015 257
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Group companies continued
Country of Effective % % Held by
Name incorporation Ownership Security Class of Share
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
Novartis Consumer Health N.V. Belgium 63.5 Ordinary 100
Novartis Consumer Health S.A. Spain 63.5 Ordinary 100
Novartis Consumer Health S.A. Switzerland 63.5 Ordinary 100
Novartis Consumer Health Schweiz AG Switzerland 63.5 Ordinary 100
Novartis Consumer Health Services S.A. Switzerland 63.5 Registered Shares 100
Novartis Consumer Health UK Limited England & Wales 63.5 Ordinary 100
Novartis Consumer Health, Inc. United States 63.5 Common 100
Novartis Consumer Health-Gebro GmbH Austria 38.1 Ordinary 60
Novartis Sante Familiale S.A.S. (In liquidation) France 63.5 Ordinary 100
P.T. SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals Indonesia 99 A Shares 100
B Shares 100
P.T. Sterling Products Indonesia Indonesia 63.5 A Shares 100
B Shares 100
Panadol GmbH Germany 63.5 Ordinary 100
PHIVCO Jersey II Limited (iv) (v) Jersey 78.3 Ordinary 100
PHIVCO Jersey Limited (iv) (v) Jersey 78.3 Ordinary 100
PHIVCO UK II Limited England & Wales 78.3 Ordinary 100
PHIVCO UK Limited England & Wales 78.3 Ordinary 100
PHIVCO-1 LLC United States 78.3 LLC Interests 100
PHIVCO-2 LLC United States 78.3 LLC Interests 100
PT Glaxo Wellcome Indonesia Indonesia 95 A Shares 100
B Shares 100
PT. Bina Dentalindo (In liquidation) Indonesia 63.5 Ordinary 100
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare LLC (iv) United States 78.3 Common Interests 100
Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd China 34.9 Ordinary 55
SmithKline Beecham (Private) Limited Sri Lanka 99.6 Ordinary 99.6
SmithKline Beecham Research Limited England & Wales 63.5 Ordinary 100
SmithKline Beecham S.A. Spain 63.5 Ordinary 100
SmithKline Beecham-Biomed O.O.O. Russia 97 Participation Interest 97
Stafford-Miller (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ireland 63.5 Ordinary 100
Stafford-Miller Limited England & Wales 63.5 Ordinary 100
Non-Cumulative Non
Redeemable Preference 100
Sterling Drug (Malaya) Sdn Berhad Malaysia 63.5 Ordinary 100
Sterling Products International, Incorporated (iv) United States 63.5 Common 100
Stiefel Consumer Healthcare (UK) Limited England & Wales 63.5 Ordinary 100
Stiefel Egypt LLC (iv) Egypt 99 Quota 99
Stiefel Manufacturing (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ireland 63.5 Ordinary 100
ViiV Healthcare (South Africa) (Proprietary) Limited South Africa 78.3 Ordinary 100
ViiV Healthcare BV Netherlands 78.3 Ordinary 100
ViiV Healthcare Company United States 78.3 Common 100
ViiV Healthcare Finance 1 Limited (iv) England & Wales 78.3 Ordinary 100
ViiV Healthcare Finance 2 Limited (iv) England & Wales 78.3 Ordinary 100
ViiV Healthcare GmbH Germany 78.3 Ordinary 100
ViiV Healthcare GmbH Switzerland 78.3 Ordinary 100
ViiV Healthcare Kabushiki Kaisha Japan 78.3 Ordinary 100
ViiV Healthcare Limited England & Wales 78.3 Class A Shares 100
Class B Shares 0
Class C Shares 0
Class D1 Preference 0
Class D2 Ordinary 0
ViiV Healthcare Overseas Limited England & Wales 78.3 Ordinary 100
ViiV Healthcare Pty Ltd Australia 78.3 Ordinary 100
ViiV Healthcare Puerto Rico, LLC Puerto Rico 78.3 LLC Interests 100
ViiV Healthcare S.r.l. Italy 78.3 Quota 100
ViiV Healthcare SAS France 78.3 Ordinary 100
ViiV Healthcare sprl Belgium 78.3 Ordinary 100
ViiV Healthcare Trading LLC Russia 78.3 Participation Interest 100
ViiV Healthcare Trading Services UK Limited England & Wales 78.3 Ordinary 100
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.2) Limited (v) Jersey 78.3 Ordinary 100
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.3) Limited England & Wales 78.3 Ordinary 100
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.4) Limited (iv) England & Wales 78.3 Ordinary 100
ViiV Healthcare UK Limited England & Wales 78.3 Ordinary 100258 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Other statutory disclosures
continued
Group companies continued
Country of Effective % % Held by
Name incorporation Ownership Security Class of Share
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
ViiV Healthcare ULC Canada 78.3 Common 100
ViiV Healthcare Venture LLC United States 78.3 LLC Interests 100
ViiV HIV Healthcare Unipessoal Lda Portugal 78.3 Quota 100
Winster Pharmaceuticals Limited Nigeria 46.4 Ordinary 100
Zhejiang Tianyuan Bio-Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd China 95 Ordinary 95
Associates
Calci Medica Inc. United States 33.9 Series A and Junior Preferred 33.9
Index Ventures Life VI (Jersey) LP United States 25 Partnership Interest 25
Theravance, Inc. (now Innoviva, Inc.) United States 27.8 Common 27.8
JCR Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd Japan 24.6 Common 24.6
Kurma Biofund II, FCPR France 32 Partnership Interest 32
Longwood Founders Fund LP United States 28 Partnership Interest 28
River Vision Development Corp. United States 33 Series A Preferred 33
Joint Ventures
Chiron Panacea Vaccines Private Ltd (In liquidation) India 50
Japan Vaccine Co., Ltd Japan 50
Japan Vaccine Distribution Co., Ltd Japan 50
Qualivax Pte Limited Singapore 50
Qura Therapeutics LLC United States 50
Key
(i) Directly owned by GlaxoSmithKline plc.
(ii) Exempt from the provisions of section 347 and 348 of the Companies Act 2014 (Ireland), in accordance with the exemptions
noted in Section 357 of that Act.
(iii) C onsolidated as a subsidiary in accordance with section 1162 (4)(a) of the Companies Act 2006 on the grounds of
dominant influence.
(iv) Dormant company.
(v) Tax resident in the UK.
(vi) Entity expected to be disposed of or removed in 2016.GSK Annual Report 2015 259
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Glossary of terms
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accelerated capital allowances T ax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay
the charging and payment of tax. The equivalent of tax depreciation.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) R eceipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GSK ADR represents two Ordinary Shares.
American Depositary Shares (ADS) Listed on the New York Stock Exchange; represents two Ordinary Shares.
Basic earnings per share Basic income per share.
Called up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
The company GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) I n 2012, the company entered into a settlement with the US Federal Government related to past
sales and marketing practices. As part of the settlement the company entered into a Corporate
Integrity Agreement with the US Department of Health and Human Services, under which
improvements are being built into its existing compliance programmes.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies,
at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Defined contribution plan P ension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth
of the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share-based employee incentive plans.
Equity Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ equity.
Finance lease Capital lease.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
GSK GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements,
by making off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets A ssets without physical substance, such as computer software, brands, licences, patents,
know-how and marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Novartis transaction The three-part inter-conditional transaction with Novartis AG involving the Consumer Healthcare,
Vaccines and Oncology businesses completed on 2 March 2015.
Ordinary Share A fully paid up ordinary share in the capital of the company.
Profit Income.
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Share option Stock option.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).
Shares in issue The number of shares outstanding.
Subsidiary An entity in which GSK exercises control.
Treasury share Treasury stock.
Turnover Revenue.
UK Corporate Governance Code A s required by the UK Listing Authority, the company has disclosed in the Annual Report how it
has applied the best practice corporate governance provisions of the Financial Reporting
Council’s UK Corporate Governance Code.260 GSK Annual Report 2015
Strategic
report
Governance
&
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Index
Page Page
Accountability 85 Long-term Incentive awards 109
Accounting principles and policies 142 Major restructuring costs 156
Acquisitions and disposals 185 Movements in equity 181
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating Net debt 178
cash flows 183 New accounting requirements 148
Annual General Meeting 2016 243 Non-controlling interests 189
Assets held for sale 168 Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare 70
Associates and joint ventures 157 Non-Executive Directors’ fees 118
Board governance 80 Notes to the financial statements 142
Cash and cash equivalents 168 Operating profit 154
CEO’s statement 7 Other intangible assets 164
Chairman’s statement 6 Other investments 167
Commitments 191 Other non-current assets 167
Committee reports 88 Other non-current liabilities 178
Competition 10 Other operating income 153
Consolidated balance sheet 139 Other provisions 177
Consolidated cash flow statement 141 Our approach to risk 16
Consolidated income statement 138 Our behaviour 44
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 140 Our Board 74
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 138 Our business 4
Consumer Healthcare 32 Our global marketplace 8
Consumer Healthcare products and competition 230 Our people 46
Contingent liabilities 179 Our planet 48
Corporate Executive Team 78 Our strategy priorities 12
Corporate governance 80 Overview of 2015 total pay 115
Critical accounting policies 70 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 169
Directors and senior management 126 Pharmaceuticals 18
Directors’ interests in shares 119 Pharmaceutical products, competition and
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 130 intellectual property 228
Dividends 160 Pipeline 225
Donations to political organisations and Post balance sheet events 204
political expenditure 249 Presentation of the financial statements 142
Earnings per share 160 Principal Group companies 205
Employee costs 155 Property, plant and equipment 161
Employee share schemes 202 Quarterly trend 218
Exchange rates 148 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 184
Executive Director remuneration 103 Registrar 246
Finance expense 157 Related party transactions 183
Finance income 156 Relations with shareholders 87
Financial instruments and related disclosures 192 Remuneration governance 116
Financial position and resources 66 Remuneration policy summary 127
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc, prepared Remuneration report 102
under UK GAAP 211 Research and development 4
Five year record 222 Responsible business 38
Glossary of terms 259 Risk factors 231
Goodwill 162 Segment information 149
Group companies 250 Share capital and control 241
Group financial review 50 Share capital and share premium account 180
Health for all 41 Share price 241
Independent Auditors’ report 131 Shareholder information 241
Inventories 168 Taxation 158
Investments in associates and joint ventures 166 Tax information for shareholders 244
Investor relations 247 Trade and other payables 169
Key accounting judgements and estimates 146 Trade and other receivables 168
Key performance indicators 14 US law and regulation 248
Leadership and effectiveness 83 Vaccines 26
Legal proceedings 206 Viability statement 52About GSK
GlaxoSmithKline plc was incorporated as an Cautionary statement regarding
forward-looking statements
English public limited company on 6 December The Group’s reports filed with or furnished to the US
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including
1999. We were formed by a merger between this document and written information released, or oral
statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf
Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham of the Group, may contain forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements give the Group’s current
plc. GSK acquired these two English companies expectations or forecasts of future events. An investor
can identify these statements by the fact that they do not
on 27 December 2000 as part of the merger relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words
such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’,
arrangements. ‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’ and other words and terms of
similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future
operating or financial performance. In particular, these
include statements relating to future actions, prospective
Our shares are listed on the London Stock products or product approvals, future performance or
results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts,
Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange. expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal
proceedings, and financial results. Other than in accordance
with its legal or regulatory obligations (including under the
UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency
Read more at www.gsk.com Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority), the Group
undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events or otherwise. The reader should, however, consult
any additional disclosures that the Group may make in any
documents which it publishes and/or files with the SEC.
All readers, wherever located, should take note of these
disclosures. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that
any particular expectation will be met and shareholders are
cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-
looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions,
inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which relate to
factors that are beyond the Group’s control or precise
estimate. The Group cautions investors that a number of
important factors, including those in this document, could
cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed
or implied in any forward-looking statement. Such factors
include, but are not limited to, those discussed under ‘Risk
Here you will find downloadable PDFs of: factors’ on pages 231 to 240 of this Annual Report. Any
forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the
• Annual Report 2015 Group speak only as of the date they are made and are
based upon the knowledge and information available to the
• Form 20-F Directors on the date of this Annual Report.
A number of adjusted measures are used to report the
• Responsible Business Supplement 2015 performance of our business. These measures are defined
on page 54 and a reconciliation of core results to total
results is set out on page 62.
The information in this document does not constitute an
offer to sell or an invitation to buy shares in GlaxoSmithKline
plc or an invitation or inducement to engage in any other
investment activities. Past performance cannot be relied
upon as a guide to future performance. Nothing in this
Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Assumptions related to 2016-2020 outlook
In outlining the expectations for the five-year period 2016-
2020, the Group has made certain assumptions about
the healthcare sector, the different markets in which the
Group operates and the delivery of revenues and financial
benefits from its current portfolio, pipeline and restructuring
programmes.
For the Group specifically, over the period to 2020 GSK
Brand names Notice regarding limitations on expects further declines in sales of Seretide/Advair. The
Brand names appearing in italics Director Liability under English Law introduction of a generic alternative to Advair in the US has
throughout this report are trade marks Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits been factored into the Group’s assessment of its future
either owned by and/or licensed to the liability of Directors in respect of statements in and performance. The Group assumes no premature loss of
GSK or associated companies, with the omissions from the Directors’ Report (for which see exclusivity for other key products over the period. The
exception of Prolia, owned by Amgen, page 101), the Strategic report and the Remuneration Group’s expectation of at least £6 billion of revenues per
Zofran, owned by Novartis, Trumenba report. Under English law the Directors would be liable to annum on a CER basis by 2020 from products launched in
and Mencevax, owned by Pfizer, Treximet, the company, but not to any third party, if one or more of the last three years includes contributions from the current
owned by Pernix Ireland, Lucozade and these reports contained errors as a result of recklessness pipeline asset Shingrix. This target is now expected to be
Ribena, owned by Suntory and Nimenrix, or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a met up to two years earlier. The Group also expects volume
a trade mark of GSK licensed to Pfizer. material fact, but would otherwise not be liable. Pages 73 demand for its products to increase, particularly in Emerging
to 101, 130, 211 and 231 to 258 inclusive comprise the Markets.
Acknowledgements Directors’ Report, pages 2 to 72 inclusive comprise the
Printing Strategic report and pages 102 to 126 inclusive comprise The assumptions for the Group’s revenue and earnings
Printed at Pureprint Group, ISO 14001. the Remuneration report, each of which have been drawn expectations assume no material mergers, acquisitions,
FSC certified and Carbon Neutral. up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon disposals, litigation costs or share repurchases for the
English company law and the liabilities of the Directors Company; and no change in the Group’s shareholdings in
Paper in connection with these reports shall be subject to the ViiV Healthcare or Consumer Healthcare. They also assume
This Annual Report is printed on limitations and restrictions provided by such law. no material changes in the macro-economic and healthcare
environment.
Amadeus 100 Silk, a 100% recycled
paper with full FSC certification. All pulps Website The Group’s expectations assume successful delivery of the
used are made from 100% de-inked, GSK’s website www.gsk.com gives additional information Group’s integration and restructuring plans over the period
post-consumer waste and are elemental on the Group. Notwithstanding the references we make 2016-2020. Material costs for investment in new product
chlorine free. The manufacturing mill in this Annual Report to GSK’s website, none of the launches and R&D have been factored into the expectations
holds the ISO 14001 and EU Ecolabel information made available on the website constitutes part given. The expectations are given on a constant currency
certificates for environmental of this Annual Report or shall be deemed to be incorporated basis and assume no material change to the Group’s
management. by reference herein. effective tax rate.
GSK Annual Report 2015Head Office and Registered Office www.gsk.com
GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS You can also search for us here
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Registered number: 3888792